[narrator] The alphabet... seafaring and trade: Their roots go back thousands of years The Germanic peoples The Arabs transmitted the rich knowledge revolutionizing mathematics and medicine. They all created a new world. The Carthaginians, the Germanic peoples their achievements Their port city, Carthage, was admired They were famous for antiquity's the dye known as Tyrian purple. They were traders who controlled for a thousand years. However, they also had Their greatest legacy was the alphabet. Their greatest enemy was the Romans, Known to history as master shipbuilders, they were the global players The Carthaginians came from Lebanon, where their ancestors first settled In those days, Lebanon's mountains of cedar, pine, and oak. The mountains, green but very steep, Most of the population lived alongside the Mediterranean. Homer was the first In the Iliad, he called them Phoenicians, because they had the secret But the Phoenicians did not call nor was there ever Rather, there were Byblos, Berytus, Sidon, and Tyre... linked by maritime trade, For a long time, the Phoenicians lived which both demanded regular tribute. The Assyrians were The period from about 1200 to 700 BC and bloodshed in the Near East, and it marked the rise And the Assyrians They were imperialist, violent, and their idea was they wanted into all sorts of different cities, and then take it back to their capital, And so they take slaves, and all sorts of other And the way the Phoenicians managed as a sort of smoldering ruin always had plenty [narrator] It was not only the Assyrians. The Egyptians also treated King Zikar-Baal of Byblos had to pay as did all the rulers The Phoenicians were gifted craftsmen magnificent silverware, and pottery. Their overlords coveted these luxuries. [in Phoenician] Leave that fumbling! [narrator] They also had such as incense and cedar. But times were changing. Zikar-Baal was tired [in Phoenician] ...as well as 500 amphorae Stop! Stop! This is driving me mad. Why do we put ourselves Sorry, sir, but it has True. But it has to change. Immediately! [narrator] It was a time of change, with the Near East empires, such as Egypt, and sometimes even falling. The Phoenicians seized their opportunity. [in German] Suddenly, the Phoenicians are free from the rule of these empires, They can devote themselves to [narrator] Egypt remained important as trade with the pharaohs The Egyptians needed a great deal of wood The Phoenicians could supply it. Their famous cedar forests An ancient Egyptian text tells In 1100 BC, he went to Byblos for a cult ship for the god, Amun. But King Zikar-Baal reacted unexpectedly. The Egyptian definitely He was hoping to get But he hadn't reckoned [in Egyptian] He demands 40 jars of gold. Jars of gold, cloth... Utterly ridiculous! Papyrus, and cow rawhide. Utterly ridiculous! [narrator] Zikar-Baal was playing and the odds were in his favor. I think it's a very realistic scenario just sticking two fingers up the Egyptians are really busted flush in that they might make a lot of noise and still behave as if they're the sort but actually, by this time, they're not. [narrator] Zikar-Baal gambled and won. According to the manuscript, for his cedarwood, and also sacks of lentils, Lentils? Has he gone mad? By the way... He said if you didn't agree, [narrator] Wenamun needed He had no choice. And the one thing the Phoenicians is assessing people's strengths If they don't have to give you something [narrator] From the eighth century BC, The old trading metropolis of Tyre while the west was increasingly In the east, the Phoenicians but their relatives in the west particularly by the Greeks. The Roman version That is why there are three different Carthage was only a small colony at first, but it rapidly grew Its location was perfect. It lay on the Gulf of Tunis, that every trading ship traveling between had to pass. Legend has it that Carthage was founded after she fled from and her power-hungry brother, Pygmalion. She landed in North Africa, where she acquired land in a deal very much to her advantage. They agreed that her block of land as the area encompassed by a cowhide. But the cunning Elissa had the hide cut so that they enclosed a huge area. On this land she built Qart Hadasht, When we think about Phoenicians we tend to think of them as being and you do a deal with them, but it's Now, we have to think about where If you trace them back, and they always take you to the Greeks. Because the thing is the Greeks might not have been but they were the best geographers, and if you can control the stories, then really, you control the past, [narrator] The story of Elissa Carthage really was founded The ruins date back when the city was founded. However, a colony is not established because a princess flees on an impulse. It is done for strategic reasons. One of the big mysteries is, why did in the central and western Mediterranean? Why wasn't it one of the other which was called Gadez at that time? And the reason why we think it was, was because it was actually set up, but also to be somewhere which would all the Phoenician interests in that area. So one of the curious things about so it's only been going we know from the cemeteries that there were probably Now to us, 30,000 doesn't but in the ancient world [narrator] The city was carefully planned. It was surrounded by elaborate defenses, The huge, ring-shaped port dominated which contained the shops The upper city rose on a hill, Set well back, almost on the edge of town, it was the religious with temples and luxurious villas who made up the Carthage elite. [in German] In Greece, And it was exactly the same in Rome. In Carthage, power lay They formed the upper class and ultimately they set [narrator] The business of government the chief magistrates of the city. Elected every year they presided over meetings of the senate. [in Phoenician] We need to decide [narrator] The first order of business for political decisions and new laws. These were discussed and voted on. [speaking Phoenician] They often related to trade agreements, the expansion of the fleet, What the Carthaginians wanted and in terms of overseas territories And that often happens. So when empires tend to start, Think about the British Empire. The British Empire was set up, really, as many goods as possible, back to a not very impressive island What we find with the Carthaginians So to start with, It's about making sure they can access but then later increasingly But over time, especially in places you get what I'd call &quot;imperial creep.&quot; So by about halfway through I think you begin to see the Carthaginians [narrator] The Carthaginians focused This enabled them to build up From southern Spain, Carthage was a transit point It imported tin from Galicia, Slaves were another important commodity. The city exported purple cloth, It also sold its goods inland, and all the way to sub-Saharan Africa, which paid in gold, The Carthaginians and Phoenicians They are thought to have been and they were expert in working metal. The Old Testament speaks highly Their bronze and silver bowls have been found in graves The upper classes of the ancient world For the Phoenicians and Carthaginians, If you're a big merchant, you have and you have economic power. Remember that neither the Phoenicians had their own citizen armies. They'd pay for mercenaries, they preferred If you're going to do that, So virtually everything they did revolved [narrator] Few people know into some of Europe's first cities. The Spanish city of Cadiz, founded In the eighth century BC, Malaga followed, and around 300 years later, the trading city of Granada. Cagliari in southern Sardinia, as well as picturesque Sorrento were all founded by the Phoenicians. Each of these cities had its own gods. They were worshipped in numerous temples The Carthaginians These steles contain symbols and images Some of the Phoenicians' gods, They were gods that came where you have all a great rich stew and one of the things about the Near East That's one side of the coin. On the other side of the coin the idea of bringing all sorts But at the same time, we do know that [narrator] And the pantheon was large. But both the Phoenicians particularly favored three deities: El, the leader of the gods, his consort Astarte, and their son, Baal. El was the creator of the world Astarte was the goddess of heaven, Baal was sometimes the sun god, at other times he looked after Gods adopted from other peoples included and Demeter from Greece. The religion was open and multicultural. Religion plays a central role We know that because the most important public spaces the Carthaginian colonies we know about across the central we find that religious places, are the most important places [narrator] But the Carthaginians Their contemporaries record that they to protect themselves from war, and that they sacrificed not only animals, Authors such as report that wealthy families in sacrifice to Baal. Offering what was most precious to them, they asked for protection It was a gruesome ritual, For a long time, debate has raged as to whether these reports are or merely Greek propaganda. The sad stories that you get and one of the problems is, They don't actually let us inside But still, if you take them I think in some respects they speak to us, So love of your children. [narrator] The Bardo Museum in Tunis contains a large number of steles One image in particular has attracted It could be proof that the Carthaginians The stele shows a scene that undoubtedly The clue is in the hand gesture. [in French] The stele is significant which represents a priest and stretching out his other arm The gesture, this engraving, as the confirmation about human sacrifice [narrator] The Old Testament mentions supporting the view In monotheistic Judaism, however, God did command Abraham but when he was about to do so, [in French] Child sacrifice, It's a controversial matter. It's a major issue. Today, there are several schools and the trend is to turn to scientific research to see whether or not the sources and whether child sacrifice existed According to my information, it is now almost certain but children were naturally buried because they were stillborn or had suffered some affliction [narrator] A stone's throw from Carthage's was the heart of the city: the harbor, admired by the whole Inside the entrance lay Behind that was a well-protected the city's secret military harbor. It was ringed with covered berths, In the center, on its own island, To this day, the ring-shaped harbor are easy to make out. [in German] This is where the world's They were built, And the whole complex because Carthage and thus with potential spies. [narrator] In 1969, the remains in the harbor of Marsala, When archaeologists identified what kind It was a Carthaginian warship and its planks were painted These markings revealed the secret The designers used prefabricated parts, to assemble the ship's components The Carthaginians were a curious mixture So they invented some the quickest, biggest warships But at the same time, so almost anybody could build them, by making sure there were little bits so you could quickly assemble them. [narrator] The Carthaginians the industrial method of shipbuilding And what's more, This approach depended and smooth collaboration Large quantities of and then assembled on a modular system. [in Phoenician] What's up? If you don't work properly, Ah. -Is that clear? Come. [narrator] It was a sophisticated system, one after another and able to replace Carthaginian warships They had to be light and maneuverable. In battle, the mast was laid flat That is why they had The first bank of rowers sat with other banks staggered behind them. A common type was the trireme, The largest warships had as many which required Often their ships had eyes both to ward off ill luck as ships were seen as living creatures. At the very front, was a bronze ram Ancient texts report innumerable first with the Greeks, in the Mediterranean from the end and later with the Romans. Remains from one of these battles just 20 minutes by sailboat from Marsala. Located off the Egadi Islands near Sicily, it is the only ancient underwater Spread over two square kilometers were amphorae, and as many as eleven rams, relics of a major naval battle between the Carthaginians The battle is widely reported One of the rams was inscribed &quot;Divine Baal, help me to destroy The invocation did no good. The Romans won the battle, the first time they had ever defeated The big problem the Romans had It meant they had absolutely Great military soldiers in terms but out to sea, absolutely hopeless. Remember, in the First Punic War, and technologically, the most advanced at that time. So how did they come out Well, what they did in the end They managed to get their hands [narrator] The Carthaginians and of the art of shipbuilding The Greeks learned from them So did the Romans, who even dubbed the tongue-and-groove The principles of the ancient designers even if the technologies are now modern and the main materials The Phoenicians and Carthaginians were for long voyages across the seas. They were the first [in French] The Carthaginians discovered and this idea of traveling that set them apart from other peoples. As the Carthaginians travelled, They had their gods, They brought other peoples' gods They brought their goods, [narrator] For their trading expeditions, the Carthaginians used It had a deeper draught than the warships, And it had only one bank They had to be spacious, to faraway destinations There had to be room for the crew as well. Because these ships had such big bellies, Carthage's most famous explorer at the beginning of the fifth century BC. He is remembered as Hanno the Seafarer. Hanno set sail with 60 ships. A stele to his memory claimed On such long voyages, the ships were agricultural tools, seeds, [in Phoenician] Idiot! Lazy! It's the third time [shouts] [narrator] Every nook and cranny because they wanted to sell or exchange So a Carthaginian ship was like and space had to be found In Hanno's time, Carthage was in the western Mediterranean, not least because But their rivals, the Greeks, were increasingly influential That is why the Carthaginians in search of new opportunities. The expedition was very risky. Hanno wanted to sail further west than He wanted to establish colonies, to find new trading partners, He would be leaving and venturing into the stormy Atlantic. [in German] The sources tell us that Hanno sailed to approximately the latitude and that among other things, and discovered exotic foreign peoples. For a long time, But now we know that it is highly likely that Carthaginian explorers whether or not Hanno himself did. But that the Carthaginians and opened it up for commerce, [narrator] It is said that Hanno's account was kept in the sanctuary Heidelberg University Library This document, one of the few written records that Hanno sailed out Hanno's expedition was a complete success, although he and his crew encountered that &quot;set the stars ablaze.&quot; They fled from fur-clad coast-dwellers The hairy women they called &quot;gorillas&quot; but they were scared of the warthogs. Hanno and his crew were often terrified. [shrieks] Still, despite their trials, although they could barely south of what is now Mauritania. [in Phoenician] Put out the fire. [narrator] The Carthaginians quickly of &quot;silent trade,&quot; which generally avoided with the trading partner, [in Phoenician] He's such a lazy rascal! [shrieks] [narrator] The principle was very simple. First, the seller spread out his wares, Each trader took his time to look If both parties were satisfied the goods changed hands. At about the same time as Hanno on the West African coast, another admiral set sail: Himilco, perhaps in search of tin, the raw material There was said to be an abundant supply Some say the Phoenicians There is no proof of this, but possibly So there's another fantastic story, And Himilco was another Instead of going south, he goes north, and heads up into the Bay of Biscay, across the English Channel, and some people think Now the story itself is probably I have no doubt that at a certain point or Phoenician traders probably did make it It would be very surprising [narrator] Wherever they went, the Carthaginians became famous for their best-known export, The first purple-dye factories were built They later spread throughout The precious dye was obtained The stench it gave off as the dye [in Phoenician] Nice smell here. Really? Do I know what you're after? Let me see. [narrator] According to legend, it was a god who discovered [both laugh] Why are you here? Let the men work. [narrator] The god was walking which was pure white, Its mouth turned purple. Wiping the dog's mouth with a cloth, its master realized that it wasn't but a particularly beautiful These days, very few people One who does is the artist She has been working [in German] Of course we know right up to the Middle Ages, loved purple and talked about purple It was very difficult and by its nature, it was the color for the elite [narrator] It's easy to cook In France, it is a delicacy, The Roman scholar Pliny the Elder though not exhaustively. Firstly, the glands are cut out The liquid immediately turns purple, [in German] I can use it But this isn't beautiful. It's not dyeing. To get a good dye, [narrator] The dye has to be dissolved. Traditionally, the gland mixture or, these days, in potash, and kept warm for days, The liquid changes color. It turns a lilac blue, then greenish blue, then dirty blue, and finally, a transparent yellow. And since every snail is different you rarely get exactly Purple has a wide spectrum, from delicate mauve to a rich deep violet. The result is impossible to predict. [in German] They used to get exactly They'd put them into piles. These match. We'll put that one here. One day, we'll have enough Not like we think, but, &quot;I have this much of this shade. I'll collect it until I have enough [narrator] The Phoenicians had Wherever there is trading, to mark goods, keep accounts, For this reason, the Phoenicians of individual letters, an alphabet. It was the first alphabet in the world and replaced the complicated scripts Its predecessor was where a kind of cuneiform alphabet This was the springboard for the Phoenicians' So around the end there's a real revolution, a real revolution for civilization, And it happens in the cradle Twenty-two different characters, that the voice makes, and in some respects this is much, It's much more utilitarian than using which is something which only the most This alphabet was something which [narrator] The Phoenician alphabet Who wanted to learn hundreds or think about whether a cuneiform symbol In Phoenician, every letter stood That was easier, and the letters could be Priests, scribes, merchants and tradesmen took the new writing Every people developed Many alphabets today are derived Hebrew and Arabic, Greek, Through the expansion the Latin alphabet finally reached This means that, through the Phoenicians brought writing It was an import that changed It was only thanks to the new letters, were able to write philosophical, that are now among The exchange of ideas, became possible only through writing. It enabled knowledge to be archived handwritten on parchment in antiquity, then on paper, There is a direct line from the 22 characters to our libraries and the computer age. Though we now transmit many images, the bulk of our knowledge Nevertheless, only a few traces of this talented For this, the Romans are to blame. They had friendly relations but then they decided to destroy Carthage. And the spark which is really going between Carthage and Rome, And one of the problems the Carthaginians fighting all sorts of insurgencies against Greek city-states in Sicily And over time, they've begun to think especially of western Sicily And increasingly in eastern Sicily, cities like Syracuse began to look at Rome and see them as a potential partner [narrator] Rome, an ambitious upstart, had conquered Italy Carthage hindered Rome's Conflict was inevitable. The First Punic War broke out. There's a backstory to Rome and Carthage All we hear about are the Punic wars and the sort of everlasting hatreds, But actually, for hundreds of years, it looks like they peacefully coexisted They had passed treaties with one another. It looks like there were Uh, they were trading together militarily and politically too. But that eventually changes. Well, it's the age-old thing that, with somebody when they're small And for a long time, Carthage of the Mediterranean world and Rome is a shitty little town which no one really cares about [narrator] The First Punic War Hannibal, the most famous wanted to destroy the city on the Tiber. With an army and war elephants, [in German] Hannibal was at the gates. The Romans hadn't experienced An enemy was directly What had happened? Hannibal had crossed the Alps It's no coincidence who dared to attack the Romans and tried to beat them there. [narrator] The cry of &quot;Hannibal at the gates,&quot; reflecting the fear that Hannibal But he never did. After winning many victories, Hannibal was defeated not far from Carthage. And this time, his dreaded war elephants Instead of attacking, to be driven back into the ranks The Romans were victorious. [soldiers cheer] For Hannibal, it was only one defeat, In exile, he fled the Romans and finally took his own life. In the Roman Senate, the war veteran concluded every one of his speeches &quot;Furthermore, I consider that Carthage Cato got his wish. The Romans' fear that their greatest enemy was too great. In 149 BC, almost 40 years Carthage was besieged, conquered, The Carthaginian state ceased to exist. What marks the end of Carthage is this apocalyptic end of the city, being destroyed in the way it was. And you have to imagine to knock down a city by hand. And not all of it was knocked down, but that's only part of the story. Because in some respects, it's like the core is destroyed, all these peripheral bits, in Sicily, in Spain, they carry on. And one of the great and amazing things was the Romans were the greatest And what happened to the Carthaginians? They were incorporated [narrator] Their once-magnificent but their legacy has endured The Carthaginians prepared the ground which is so taken for granted today. They gave their successors the courage and to exchange ideas It was the initial impetus which has now taken over the whole world. They founded Europe's oldest cities, so laying the foundation They had that spirit of discovery, which encouraged to venture far beyond the limits [foghorn blows] Their most important legacy, however, which took over in just a few centuries and is the origin They took on the mightiest peoples terrifying even the superpower Rome. The sagas of their heroes were passed down and they are still retold today. In extremity, they offered their gods They revered their seeresses. These women could pronounce They built small settlements in the wilds. But they went on to found kingdoms, laying the foundation Stretching from Europe's far north the home of the Germanic peoples lakes teeming with fish, There were over 70 Germanic tribes: Friesians, Teutons, Suebi, Angles, Saxons. It is a long list, and many of the names But none of these tribes ever referred That name was coined [in German] The concept of &quot;the Germans&quot; He coined the term for he applied the term to all of [narrator] The ancestors were probably Indo-Europeans. From Eurasia, Around 1000 BC, one such group between the Baltic Sea and the Alps. There they mixed with the locals, named after the burial urns This was the real birthplace Over the centuries, spread to Scandinavia, They built villages Although they settled the tribes were connected At first, all of the Germanic peoples were Their diet consisted mainly of bread made of mixed-grain cereal Sometimes vegetable soup was on the but that was more the exception The life of the Germanic peoples They had no surplus of anything, Everyone is pretty poor, certainly before but that doesn't mean that everyone If you've got more access to food, if you're having to do then there can be strong even within societies that to us look unimaginably poor in material terms. And certainly from the time the Roman sources There are slaves and there are [narrator] In the first century BC, all the Germanic tribes of Europe numbered None of their villages A village consisted of several clans, with each clan comprising a dozen A household had about 12 people, It was headed by the father of the family. The typical Germanic settlement had In southern Germania, The longhouse roof usually It was a durable construction Each house had just one room, which served as a home as a stable for the working animals, and as storage Not everyone has the same not everybody has And one of the things you can see this on Imagine having a house. If it's longer, you have but if the stable end is longer, and animals mean wealth. [narrator] In winter, so in autumn, most of the animals and their meat was smoked The smoke escaped through a roof opening, the origin of the word &quot;window.&quot; Large pieces of meat were hung until they were aromatic Smokehouses in northern Germany very like the old Germanic custom. But only a small minority could afford It rarely graced the tables Livestock is an expensive resource because they taste good But imagine them eating lots of porridge, And then also there is another nice thing You could make it into beer. [narrator] The everyday drink was beer The Roman historian Tacitus and deemed But to the tribes, was a sign of manliness. Fashion was also a matter of manliness. Germanic men paid a lot of attention which they twirled [man humming] Their premier hair treatment was butter. It made their hair stink after a while, The Suebian knot, with a braid was especially popular. Initially it was a badge of recognition but it became a fashion statement The beauty kit also included Their cosmetic bags were stuffed full. Germanic people went half-naked. Animal skins covered the bare minimum, But archaeology suggests otherwise. The Germanic tribes would use wool, for most of their garments, sheep's wool. But there are also indications that they which we know today, but as a surprise It takes a lot of time It's never really been industrialized that you can actually make clothing [narrator] Bold colors, were also very popular Dresses were long and usually sleeveless, During pregnancy, it was simply The Germanic man wore the trousers, The reputation of the whole clan He could enhance his reputation or through a harvest that made him rich. Or simply by belonging to a superior clan. Out of these noble circles, the leaders in battle. They and their followers raided the lands The booty was shared out, and in return the liegemen Over time, small tribes banded together always led by a warrior. The striking thing that emerges in the different Germanic sub-dialects, is that by the fourth century, every word for &quot;leader&quot; amongst or West Germanic groups they're all descended for war leader, war band leader. [narrator] The Germanic system evolved into the mediaeval feudal system. Most of our noble titles also go back A duke... in German, a Herzog... was a man who herzug, that is, Vurste, the German word for prince, They could not be called but the men of the Germanic tribes even though trousers were not widely and much later than that for women. It's the same with beer. The Germanic peoples were but they did make barley beer Nowadays, beer is more popular than ever. [bird calling] The Germanic tribes had their dark side. They were warlike, They even saw it as an economic necessity. The looting of slaves, tolls, land Individual clans and often it was solely [in Germanic language] What do you mean by &quot;they&quot;? Wild boar, I hope. [wild shriek] Shh! Be quiet. [sheep bleating] [narrator] Every member of the clan was of the other members, [man groans] It was the Albrecht brothers. -They'll be back. [narrator] If a dispute arose it had to be arbitrated publicly. This was done at the Thing. [in German] Their laws were passed down Legal matters and conflicts but also between larger units where all free men met [narrator] The Thing meeting place A truce called &quot;the Thing peace&quot; and all parties had to abide by it. If an offence was against the community, The clashing of weapons meant a rumbling murmur meant dissent. With the tribal chief presiding, Those who had been cowardly in battle, or broken sacrosanct traditions When they faced the Romans, the Germanic tribesmen The wars between the men from the Tiber went on for centuries. Undoubtedly, the sort of biggest shark is the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire is unimaginably huge. It runs from Scotland to Iraq. And it lasts for 500 years, It's the biggest state and the longest-lived one. This is the politically dominant force that's overhanging most [narrator] When storms destroyed they began a fateful migration. The Cimbri and Teutons from Jutland were They wanted to move into the Celtic lands But the Celts were allies of the Romans In 113 BC, there was a showdown: The tribesmen went on the rampage, defeated the Romans They crossed the Danube and the Rhine, and ended up in what is now The Romans had long It was usually a peaceful place. But not on the sixth of October, 105 BC. At first, the legionaries failed to grasp As the enemy approached, the Romans thought them who posed no threat. They could not have been more mistaken. A loose union of various tribes had grown that was determined to stop at nothing The Roman image of the Germans is dictated As far as Romans, are concerned, then human beings of rational mind and irrational body. And in civilized people, the rational mind But in barbarians, all barbarians, and of course the ancient Germans the irrational body controls the mind, Sex and drugs and rock 'n' roll, that is Tacitus claimed to know They were persistent, he wrote, including He had never been Nonetheless, he maintained with blue eyes and a wild gaze. Their hair was reddish, They were good [man panting] But when things got tough, he wrote, They couldn't cope with heat or thirst. They were only hardened Caesar described the ferocity He held them to be undisciplined Chaotic, in fact, and the complete [warriors shouting] But it was to be these wild, who brought almost 120,000 Romans It is said that two Roman generals because they could not agree If this is true, went into battle against a united body In combat they were legendary. [warriors shouting] [in German] This furor Teutonicus, for that, For since their battles with they had dreaded this wild, unbridled, which was the opposite [narrator] Many more battles followed. The Cimbri fought the Romans Caesar battled the Suebi and, although outnumbered, he won. Decades passed. The turning point came with the Battle In just three days, the Germanic tribes So great was the shock to the empire that the Romans abandoned Shortly afterwards, the Romans withdrew And they built several walls, the most famous being the 500-kilometre-long Limes, would protect them History was to prove otherwise. In war and in daily life, religion played a central role Nature in any form Nature was sacred and provided the setting Germanic stake or pole gods They were simple wooden idols carved from long branches They were found mainly The names of these deities But some look strikingly human, such as these figures discovered There were also gods with famous names. Chief of the gods was Odin, or, Wodan, which is where our word His wife was Frigg, the goddess of marriage, She gave her name to the word &quot;Friday.&quot; Her son Donar, or Thor, His name is preserved [thunder rumbles] Tyr, the god of war, The ancient writers told blood-curdling the mediatrixes between It was said that they could see They allegedly divined prophecies from reading the bloody entrails One of the few seeresses we know She was revered in Germania because The tribes depended on the advice especially for political decisions. They disclosed the will of the gods. Would a battle bring victory or defeat? The seeress would know the answer. They passed on messages from the gods sticks covered in mysterious symbols. These symbols evolved into runic writing. There are 24 characters also known as &quot;futhark,&quot; Some of the oldest runic writing The meaning is not very exciting. One has the owner's name, The elites of the Germanic tribes for blessings, It is hard to tell nowadays belongs to the owner or the maker, as with this splendid sword, [warriors shouting] Swords were cult objects In their eyes, swords had magical powers. That is why they liked and take them back to their sacred sites. The Germanic tribesmen threw as a special sacrifice to their gods. There are a few very specific things that we find in Germanic These bog deposits of weapons and what you see there is that before they're thrown into the moor, so spears are shattered, swords are bent, and this is an incredibly deliberate act. [narrator] And they went one step further. Over the years, researchers have Some may have been executed criminals But a few of the mummified corpses One of these is Grauballe Man, There are grounds for suspecting that carried out to appease a powerful deity. [in German] There is evidence but not very much evidence. It was evidently a form of sacrifice when no other form of sacrifice [narrator] Grauballe Man He was 34 and had dark hair. It was turned a rich red His fingernails were well cared for. He had not done hard manual labor. He was suffering from an inflamed tooth, He died of a slit throat, His death would have come very quickly. For fear that the dead the Germanic tribesmen [in German] The bog bodies often show but also of extreme violence In other words, You could attribute this an attempt to stop the dead [narrator] For years, Germanic tribesmen at the same place on the shore of a lake In the first century BC, a woman was killed Hers is the only mummified corpse and it poses a puzzle. [in German] The finds at Rappendam because they found but also the remains of numerous animals and several dozen wagon wheels, They were made purely for sacrifice. We don't know for sure Do the wheels stand for the wagons that the Germanic tribes used Or was this place intended such as carters? [narrator] There may be a connection honoring the harvest goddess Erce. Her image is said to have been driven before being washed in the lake. In certain parts of north Germany, this figure is still known Frau Herke or Frau Harke, or, as she's known is a figure from German, And it's just about possible from a female deity worshipped in pre-Christian times And it's just about possible that's to say a reflection of Terra Mater, that Tacitus describes in Germania. [narrator] Frau Holle is by no means A list of them all would include such as the Harvest Festival, or the St Martin's Day procession when work in the fields has ceased. As we have seen, Tuesday, Wednesday, are all derived from the names The dread of ghosts, spirits and vampires goes back to the Germanic fear The Germanic love of the forest is still forming the backdrop of fairy tales, poems There are monuments who defeated the Romans They are reminders One of these tales is set [in German] My father told it to me before he died. and his father told him. And he heard it from his father. And he heard it from his forefathers. And so on and so forth. [man 2, in German] betrayal and revenge, but it's also about beautiful women. Fierce Brunhilde, revengeful Kriemhild, and Siegfried the dragon slayer. [narrator] The legend of the Nibelungs Essentially a historical epic, The hero of the piece is Siegfried. He slays a dragon and bathes in its blood. This makes him invulnerable, or almost. One vulnerable spot remains on his back. [Siegfried cheering] Siegfried rides to Burgundy whose brother Gunther wants Siegfried agrees to help him. Brunhilde challenges Gunther because Siegfried, helps him to defeat her. [blade rattling] So Gunther wins Brunhilde. The wedding night is a farce. Gunther falls upon his bride while [bed creaking] Brunhilde learns of the trick His widow, Kriemhild, plots revenge. [in German] She lures the Burgundians During a feast, there is a bloodbath. They slaughter one another. What becomes of the Nibelung treasure? No one knows. [in German] The Song of the Nibelungs the story of Siegfried, and also on historical sources. For example, in the fifth century, there was a Burgundian kingdom in the region of Worms, and 20 years later there was the attack by Attila The writer wove all these threads [narrator] A debt of gratitude is owed It was they who, in the 13th century, first wrote down the myths The Edda songs and Edda legends feature a multitude of heroes, gods, &quot;The Prophecy of the Seeress&quot; magical world They have names like Bombur, Bofur, all of which Tolkien drew on A lot of it comes back to Tolkien. Tolkien was an expert And when you trace the, sort of... spread of Germanic saga-type themes a lot of it goes back to Lord of the And everyone is really just doing copies So Tolkien is the man, the crucial conduit [narrator] Whether in The Hobbit the mythic Germanic world lives on, The Germanic heroes live on Thor battles who was already a troublemaker The makers of computer games Millions of players slip now into the role [riders shouting] The arrival of the Huns marked of a dark new chapter In 375 AD, the men on horseback The Huns destabilize the relations that had operated between around the Roman Empire Those had been stable from the last quarter of the third century But the Huns arrive and... create such a level in this frontier world that you find Germanic groups into Hunnic domination and ending up inside the Roman Empire. [narrator] The Goths, Franks set out on treks Some had ox carts which later gave way to spokes. The Angles, Saxons and Jutes used longboats The Vandals crossed the Mediterranean. The Germanic boats were narrow and fast, forerunners Generations of Germanic tribesmen Some lived by plunder, It was the Hun invasion but the underlying cause was hunger, At the end of the fourth century, The Germanic tribes A wave of refugees, thousands upon [in German] There were various reasons Some Germanic tribes came in peace, They wanted land in a more clement climate Others, like the Alemanni, But what they had in common was the quest for a better life Parallels with the present [narrator] The Franks prospered They were made up who settled on the east bank [in Frankish language] You've nearly made it. [narrator] Gradually they merged and finally into one large It will be worth it, you'll see. [narrator] This large tribe came and got their permission I'm hungry. And I'm tired. [narrator] The tribes found new homes in Alsace and Switzerland, In almost 200 years on the move, and in the case of the Vandals, They fought repeated wars with Rome, which ended only when bringing down the Roman Empire From their original modest settlements, Paris soon became their capital. Their king was Clovis, [in Frankish language] Have you finished? Yes, it's all as you wished. Only one thing is missing... [narrator] Clovis ordered a collection Although focusing on Frankish interests, it was the first-ever legal text The lex Salica dealt such as inheritance law, and it codified The penalties included with freemen more likely to be fined. Only a few offences I think you're faced with the problem where populations are now living side by side. Interestingly, lex Salica, is written in Latin. And most Franks couldn't cope with Latin, but it comes with glosses the so-called Malberg Glosses. One argument is that it's actually so they can understand what the hell and how Franks think, because you're going to face disputes where Franks and Romans and Romans have to be able to cope So lex Salica is arguably a text [narrator] In order to become Clovis subjugated the Alemanni, the West Goths Only a few had bowed [in Frankish language] I see. Herewith I bow to your power and swear eternal loyalty to you. With all my strength, [narrator] To demonstrate subject lords had to kneel the Germanic way of making it One enemy less. I'll get them all in the end. We're becoming ever greater [narrator] Clovis went down in history His dynasty expanded. In the sixth century, his empire ran The successor states still exist today. King Clovis, or Chlodewech could be called &quot;The father of Europe&quot; is a title that But if we start with Clovis, he is the founder or the consolidator And he conquered most of Gaul and named it after his own tribe, He united the different Frankish tribes and most importantly of all, And this was the first major success with a Germanic tribe. [narrator] Clovis was christened For this, he had to give up his claim In its turn, the Church promised him he and his successors And his rule on earth was henceforth The conversion of Clovis to Christianity paved the way for preachers and monks By and large, they did so peacefully. The Germanic peoples and turned to Christianity, [in German] The most attractive part was the prospect including the women and children and not only for the men who reached This afterlife, which rewards the good was certainly a major factor [narrator] The great champion of the Frankish Carolingian dynasty. In 771, he assumed sole power Charlemagne carried on but his ambitions went further. Charlemagne wanted to stamp out [cattle lowing] Above all, he opposed the Saxons, because they clung tightly [in Saxon language] [narrator] And their leader, Widukind, The fight is brutal, in fact. Charlemagne can dispose He's already conquered Italy, he's already conquered all of Gaul The Saxons wouldn't stand a chance, so they have to fight the equivalent They have to try and make it more... Well, they have to try and make it to conquer Saxony that he gives up. But Charlemagne is not going to give up. The fact that they're pagans, because of his religious understanding makes it impossible for him to give up. [narrator] Charlemagne decreed [villagers screaming] His soldiers attacked the Saxon villages, Charlemagne's ruthless pursuit earned him the nickname The Frankish king had an ambitious goal. He wanted to rule a huge empire, Charlemagne is not just Charlemagne is Imperator, Emperor. And his understanding of that term is derived from but not exactly the same He regards himself as having been given supreme power by God for a reason. It's not just an accident. He is God's choice to rule over the whole of Western Europe [narrator] Only after a decade of death did the Saxons recognize that they would out of their tribal areas. The Frankish chroniclers would claim because of a miracle. In truth, Widukind just wanted peace. That is why the last of Widukind's baptism, was by no means the end It was subsumed into Christianity. It didn't have an independent status, but I think for farming communities life continued in much the same way. They had Christian names for festivals. They worshipped God, just one God but paganism was still alive and ritual to do with farming practices. And later European folklore So it continued in all but name. [narrator] Under Charlemagne, to run from the Pyrenees to Carinthia, With his coronation as emperor, he founded Charlemagne was the greatest Carolingian And he could be called because his empire in Europe was... it could be regarded France and Germany, if you look actually have the same area, in the late eighth century [narrator] Emerging from origins the Germanic tribes still determine The names of some The Germanic Suebi The mysterious Bavarii And Hesse comes from the ancient Chatti. Their influence is also felt England, Spain, Scandinavia and France And the languages of 500 million people have their roots They lived in a host of tribes as farmers, What first united them was Islam, They conquered an empire In their capital, Baghdad, an oasis of scholarship. They transmitted the learning of Whether it was medicine... architecture... or astronomy... as patrons of science, they were Arabia. The largest peninsula on Earth, with endless seas of sand For millennia, it was home to nomads Only in the southwest make the mountains Traditionally, the people of this land without a state or a common leader. Although they had been there no common name for them That was when the first document probably derived from abara, which means, in Arabic and Hebrew, Before Islam, the Arabs probably the most dominant one. The main characteristics are and they're mostly pastoralists, but also organized in tribes, though some are also town dwellers, They become almost like They absorb many different peoples All of them gradually, many of them, in the sense that they speak Arabic [narrator] In the dry north, there were such as the stone city of Petra, Or Palmyra, a trading metropolis in Syria. Some of its remains were recently In the fertile south of Arabia, Kingdoms emerged there too. They benefited from the revenue the ancient caravan route were transported The trade brought riches. That is why the Romans called happy Arabia; the north, Arabia Petraea, and the center, Arabia Deserta, And that was the location of Mecca. The city lay in a dry valley. At most, passing caravans could hope to pick up some dates, Nevertheless, Mecca was an important as it had another asset: sacred springs. [man speaks Arabic] And a special shrine, the Kaaba, During holy months, to walk around the Kaaba and to pay homage to their gods. For the merchants, Everyone brought his wares to Mecca. Not only did the people of the city and there was a trade There were plenty of customers. After all, the Kaaba was the oldest So we don't really know Possibly it was a meteorite, but it became a shrine for the Arabs in a pagan capacity, presumably, at first, but then it became associated, obviously, with the site of the one god. [narrator] In ancient Arabia, there was People feared the djinns, The chief god of Mecca was Hubal. At his side were Al-Lat, Al-Uzza, the goddess of the morning star; and Al-Manat, the goddess of destiny. Trees and springs, and often stones, Some, like the black stone on the Kaaba, Not all the tribes were pagan; The sites dedicated to the different gods In Mecca, the Quraysh clan and so, made up the city's elite. The Quraysh also had a monopoly from the pilgrim trade, Hey! Hey! Hey, leave! This is our area. You shouldn't be here. I'm telling you to go! [narrator] Competition was frowned upon, so a wealthy few dominated and many others felt excluded. But the world of many gods who was born in Mecca in 570 AD: He propelled the tribes of Arabia because he founded a new religion. It is said that Muhammed often withdrew In his seclusion, he had Known to history as the &quot;Night of Power,&quot; it marks the birth date of Islam, which means Muhammed said that the archangel Gabriel to cast aside paganism and convert To his followers, Muhammed was the last and highest of all the prophets. There was Abraham, the patriarch of the three great religions Moses, the highest prophet of the Jews... and Jesus, the Savior of the world According to the Koran, Jesus had prophesied the coming So it's said that there were some people or who had heard rumors who would bring a new religion. It's difficult to say whether we should But also, we know from the Koran Quite a proportion of the Koran is taken and an opposition who accuse him of maybe just being a magician, a sorcerer, bringing false messages, So, one imagines that he faced and it took him some time [narrator] Mecca's elite saw For them, worshipping only one god What's more, the gods that Muhammed had been revered since the earliest times. The new prophet and his few supporters The community was divided. One day, his opponents made a decision: [in Arabic] Is this Muhammed? Who else, you idiot? Damn it. He's not here. [man] Shut up! Let's go. [narrator] The attempt failed. Muhammed, knowing his days had urged his supporters [man whistles] His adversaries were too strong. And he had also planned They've fled. [narrator] It was said that Gabriel had warned the prophet Muhammed's flight from Mecca, came in July 622 AD; the year that now marks He took refuge in a mountain cave which offered him protection. Its people hoped that he would And Muhammed's faith They renamed their city in his honor to Madinat an-Nabi, Medina, A couple of main reasons why Islam is, one, simplicity. There's none of this complicated God is one, that's it. There's a series of messengers who've been sent always bringing the same message, There's also a clear sense of community, in a sense, the ummah, All Muslims should help each other, and all people are members Just by right of believing. [narrator] In just ten years, in doing what no one had ever done: uniting all the tribes of Arabia After a few battles, Muhammed made a pilgrimage and walked around the Kaaba, The shrine of the deities of antiquity and became Islam's holiest shrine. After Muhammed's death, They destroyed the Persian Empire and drove the Christian Byzantines and North Africa. They conquered an area stretching and the borders of China. In the west, they overran North Africa They stormed Sicily In the eighth century, that was larger than the Roman Empire. Many different groups for many different reasons, but compulsion wasn't generally The most usual scenario is that a group for different reasons, saw their chance now to become So for example, in Libya, of the Berbers called the Lawata. They had been excluded when the Byzantines reconquered Africa and pushed basically outside So they now saw their chance to join them and to become top dogs, [narrator] By 700 AD, the Arabs ruled At the very top of the empire However, there were often heated disputes over who had the better right [caliph groans] Below the caliph were whose main role was to collect taxes. Muslims paid only The bulk of the taxes were paid classified as dhimmi, &quot;protected persons.&quot; The revenue was administered They also distributed the taxes. The kind of upholstered bench often found Muhammed urged his followers &quot;from the cradle to the grave.&quot; There was probably no one who took this [in Arabic] Look! [narrator] Al-Ma'mun ruled in Baghdad He had a dream: to make his city the greatest center [smashing] It happened again. [snaps fingers] Come and have a look. Isn't this amazing? Yes, master. Always. Always. [narrator] It was Al-Ma'mun's who had laid the city's foundation stone. Baghdad was built between the Euphrates and the Tigris in what is now Iraq. The metropolis was probably planned All its districts were arranged and all its roads led that contained the caliph's palace Baghdad quickly expanded In 800 AD, the city had making it one of the largest It was a magnet for specialists a haven of invention and scholarship. It seems that the Caliph Al-Ma'mun with science and scholarship. Uh, he brought together a group He commissioned them He was aware of the astronomy and wanted to go beyond it, of new observatories It's said he had a dream early in life that the Greek philosopher Aristotle to seek knowledge wherever he could. And from that moment on, [narrator] Caliph Al-Ma'mun most famous scholarly institution, There, Arabs and Persians, Christians the most important writings What do we have, ibn Harun? Very well, sir. We have, my Lord, The science of mathematics. Good. We have astrology from Persia. Good. Astrology. From India, too. As you can see, my Lord. And also from India we have... Brahmasphut. It's something about mathematics. Mm. Ibn Harun... Anything interesting from the Greeks? -[bell jingles] Euclid! He has just returned After a great effort, my Lord, I have brought you Euclid. And also here is Pythagoras. I have long waited for this moment. This is amazing! You are a great man, ibn Nazim, Thank you, my Lord. Give him the money. Translate these books Clear? They had inherited the discovery They were producing books And they realized they sat which was at the center of so many And I think they felt that somehow they needed to catch up The Greeks, the Byzantines, the Romans, They had a lot of catching up to do, to gather and assimilate [narrator] The scholarly work in Baghdad in the ninth and tenth centuries. The Banu Musa brothers who invented what must be the world's an automatic horse trough. Hunayn ibn Ishaq, a doctor, -[bystander vomits] The philosopher Al-Kindi was He analyzed secret scripts, The Persian mathematician made Indian numbers known to the Arabs The numbering system we use today, the decimal system, goes back to India. So, more accurately it should be But certainly it was passed on and then on to Europe. Great mathematicians like al-Khwarizmi were very keen And, indeed, European mathematicians who travelled widely in the Middle East then translated his work into Latin [narrator] Roman numerals could not be For that, coins and lines were needed. For example, adding 126 on the left Each number is divided into with the fives and fifties Three ones make three. Two fives make ten, With the three tens, the fifty, It's pretty complicated. With the new numerals, it was much easier: 126 plus 157 equals 283. What Al-Khwarizmi did was talk about &quot;the unknown quantity.&quot; Today we would call it &quot;x,&quot; in algebra. He said, for example, if you have if that answer is five, he then gave the set of instructions So, for example, here we would say, well, let's subtract one So, on the left we only have two &quot;x,&quot; and if I take one away from five, The next step is to divide both sides So all I have now is &quot;x&quot; And here we have our answer. The &quot;x&quot; is revealed for this We only get there [narrator] Neither mathematics nor physics Einstein expressed in the famous formula E = mc2. The modern age would also Every computer and calculator works Translated into programming languages, There is hardly anyone these days They are indispensable, The introduction of Arabic numerals put an end to calculations The word &quot;cipher,&quot; still reminds us of The knowledge of the scholars both peacefully... and by conquest. In 711 AD, an Arab and Berber army The Arabs defeated the Visigoths, who had ruled Spain They conquered the whole and even entered France. With the conquest of Spain, the expansion of Arab power The new ruler was He founded the Emirate of Cordoba, the first Arab empire to be independent Cordoba, the new Umayyad capital, soon became The caliphs commissioned huge buildings... masterpieces of Moorish architecture. One of them was the Cordoba mosque, now a cathedral and a World Heritage Site, Andalusia benefited enormously The Arabs introduced many previously artichokes, cotton and rice, and they taught the farmers They introduced the hundreds of windmills [in German] Rising productivity made the Andalusian cities The Umayyad rulers used this wealth that is, to invite scientists This also applied to philosophy, and all kinds of subjects, And Cordoba began to exert particularly in Europe, where people suddenly of a cultural flowering [narrator] Scholars, artists were drawn to the Cordoba court, from all over the Arab Empire. Word got around that the arts and sciences and that talent was handsomely rewarded. [man] Wa-oo! [narrator] The new star was by the name of Ali ibn Nafi, because of his beautiful voice. [in Arabic] Where is it? Where is my oud pick? Sahar! [narrator] Ziryab came to Spain He was a cosmopolitan, He wrote poetry to accompany his melodies, and he showed society in the Emirate [tunes oud] Ziryab introduced the people and taught them according to the occasion and the season. He urged men to groom their beards, to clean their fingernails He showed them how to play chess, and how He advocated the three-course menu. -[crowd cheers] a cultural guru. [crowd oohs] But above all, The oud he brought with him the key instrument of Spanish music, And he established for men and women. [in Arabic] Hello, Master Ziryab. Welcome. Great to have you here. Abed al-Rahman... Start with the first verse. My darling Regardless of time or distance Or travel Or absence You are always close to my heart Dreadful singing! Hunaida, show him how to sing it. [sings in Arabic] [narrator] The scholars of Andalusia Ziryab's patrons a court poet and multi-talent. He initiated the first known The later Caliph al-Hakam II that is said to have housed more than in the rest Many Moorish scientists were polymaths, mathematics, medicine and mechanics. Not only Muslims, took part in this research, and even women, The term &quot;Arabic science&quot; Notice, we don't call it &quot;Arab science,&quot; because many of these scholars They came from different parts Many of them, for example, were Persian. We also don't refer to it because many of those scholars There were Christians, So it doesn't matter what religion or which part of the empire but what united them was the lingua franca Arabic was the official language. It was the language And therefore everyone, if they wanted had to write in the Arabic language. In the same way that today [narrator] The heritage is evident in many areas. It contributed words like &quot;alcohol,&quot; The Andalusian style of singing to the oud who travelled Europe with their lutes. It therefore sowed the seed for the music The Eastern lifestyle influenced customs which adopted both chess Voltaire, Goethe and Lessing as a model of tolerance. Cordoba was also Doctor Al-Zahrawi was one Ahmed! Yes, sir? [narrator] There were already and it had its own medical school. [patient groans] It hurts! Can you see his face? Come closer. And now? Take another step. And now? I can't see clearly. A cataract, then. You want to pierce my eyes? Your lens is becoming clouded. We have to fold it down behind the pupil Very scary! Will I be better afterwards? Usually it is. I've done this operation [narrator] Al-Zahrawi was considered He even made his own instruments The scalpel, scissors and dogleg clamps were used in operations and in the throat or the urethra. The lancet was used to treat cataracts, by pushing the clouded lens Most of the instruments from that time are barely distinguishable [in Spanish] Medicine certainly had Pharmacy or chemistry And the Arab-Islamic world of that time the real heir of Greek science and fortunately that science, with great improvements was transmitted to the Christian world through the Translation Movement. [narrator] The first Christian centers grew up on the borders of the Arab Empire In Montpellier, in what is now France, they had close contacts in southern Spain and Sicily. In this way, the vast knowledge became more widely known. [in Arabic] How are you? I'm well. I'm not blinded by the light. I can even make out colors! But I still can't see clearly. You'll have to get used to that. It's not going to be 100%. It's important to see, Wait here. I have something for you. [narrator] Al-Zahrawi is of the use of medication He also manufactured medicines Make infusions out of these herbs And this... [chuckles] ...is for getting you in the mood. [chuckles] Thank you, sir! [chuckles] That isn't to say it was a fully Consider, for example, who calculated the exact dose of medicine that a person should take, owing to the influence of factors... Well, apart from those that we find a little strange, the leap that occurred through the improvement of drugs in Islamic medicine was very large. [narrator] The Arabs had learned about the theory of the four &quot;humors&quot;: black bile, yellow bile, Personality, illness and treatments were If black bile predominated, Yellow bile indicated and too much phlegm, a phlegmatic one. Plentiful blood produced the most positive A good treatment rebalanced The medicine is definitely more advanced than in the European north. That's mainly because the caliphate So it has the money to spend. It also has access to the rich traditions, both of Greece, ancient Greece, so the works of Galen, which had been translated in the course but also the Persian and Indian worlds. This is always important It's not just drawing it's also drawing on Persia and India, which are also extremely ancient, And the Islamic world [narrator] The new knowledge for the first pharmacies The Arabs founded the medical pharmacology, anatomy and surgery, all of them disciplines that were still Arabic textbooks were above all Avicenna's Canon of Medicine, and, of course, who was better known It was only when bacteria, that the next completely new era Europe lay in the shadow In the 11th century, however, the Christian reconquest launched from had its first major victories. In addition, an appeal for help The Byzantine world is under In 1071, the Byzantines suffer so they are really keen to try and so they appeal to the West &quot;Wouldn't this be wonderful if we could the Holy Land [narrator] And indeed, knights and peasants, men in search all set out to win back the Holy City. The Crusade ended in a victory But peace did not come to Jerusalem. The city was taken and retaken many times in a war that went on [shouting] As is so often the case, power politics In Europe, the popes are fighting a battle particularly the Holy Roman Emperor, So they see this as an occasion to grab the upper hand and they say, &quot;We can actually So they also decide to back this idea And they, the Pope, encourages about Muslim iniquities, terrible things and how it's important to us now the Holy Land of Palestine and Jerusalem. [narrator] In Spain, too, The Christians wrested more in a virtually uninterrupted The Emirate of Al-Andalus was fragmented and could do little In 1085, Christian knights took back After Cordoba, it was the most important center The conquerors grasped into their hands. In what became known they threw open the city's libraries Christian scholars, primarily monks, came from all over Europe They set to work side by side Multilingual teams labored of translating documents by Arabs, as literally as possible Toledo was important because before it had a very broad Arab culture. They had large libraries. The Christians came with the Arab culture. Many people were fluent They spoke Arabic well They were ideally placed to effect from the Muslim world [narrator] By the beginning the most important books the works of the brilliant Ptolemy; the standard works of Archimedes and Euclid; and the philosophy of Aristotle. In addition, there were the writings ranging from mathematics and optics, The translation of their books to an entirely new level. The King of Castile, Alfonso the Wise, was among the most significant patrons He even had scientific and literary works setting an example for other countries to commission translations It promised education for all, A collection of fables had a lasting It was read throughout Europe, and there are echoes of it and the fables of La Fontaine. So far, it has been translated Kalila wa-Dimna was very important that literary tradition from the Persian world, which had was the basis of half of the story collections in Castilian in practically all of the Middle Ages. We find that these works in many collections of stories. [narrator] The knowledge of the Arabs which was under Arab rule but also from Istanbul. An intellectual golden age followed, leading to the founding of several Scholars, educated had a decisive influence Inspired by the Arabic books on optics, In 15th-century Florence, thanks to the theory of light rays It revolutionized much more than And in the 16th century, Copernicus, who deduced that the earth was still studying the works The prime of the Arab caliphates The descent of the Mongols spread terror It was a severe blow when Genghis Khan first advanced as far as the Mediterranean and then conquered large parts In 1258, they took Baghdad The House of Wisdom, the most important center was destroyed at the same time. The wealth of knowledge Countless books It is said that the river The Caliph of Baghdad was killed. And later, the Crusaders in Spain from Arab rule, the Emirate of Granada. To this day, the Alhambra symbolizes Its walls had just been completed Their construction was therefore as well as a symbol of its end. The Arab Empire is long gone. The stories of a once magnificent Baghdad and its caliphs with their thirst but they no longer have of most people in the Arab world. More than 400 million people spread over Africa and the Middle East. Most of them live modestly. Only a very few are part For the most part, Arab society Many conservatives and incompatible with their faith. A faith that was once taken out by the Prophet Muhammed, &quot;The ink of the scholar is holier I think given today's political climate, it's certainly important for us that there was a time led the rest of us when it came But it's also important particularly for the next generation to appreciate their own cultural heritage, that their ancestors once in the same breath such as Newton, Einstein and Galileo. [narrator] Beside its Greco-Roman Europe also has roots in a third culture: It was Arab scholars and rulers of the ancient world and continued to develop it. They promoted &quot;global scholarship,&quot; the free exchange of ideas to develop knowledge