In this video, I debunk the nine most Is it really indestructible? Do acidic foods and soap ruin the seasoning? The first myth is that cast iron People think this because you need to Although cast iron without seasoning will rust, the seasoning process is easy and Most cast iron skillets today come pre-seasoned When you do need to season it, dry it, rub it with a thin layer Although the baking portion takes an to do takes less than 5 minutes. It's Another common myth is that you The rationale behind this myth is that dish oil. Since the layers of seasoning are created But the reality is that seasoning isn't just oil; it's polymerized oil that's It's hard and tough and as long as the dish soap a few drops won't hurt. I always recommend using a chainmail to especially messy meal and chainmail is not To prove this point, I washed this cast iron skillet with Kirkland dish Here's what it looked like after one wash. Here's what it looked like after two washes. Here it is after three washes. Four. And five. As you can see, the soap didn't Cast iron develops non-stick properties but it's not totally non-stick like a cast iron is naturally non-stick, You can cook an egg without oil or But a well-seasoned cast iron pan still needs eggs can sometimes stick if the One of the most common myths about cast iron because they strip away the seasoning and the amount of acidic ingredients and For example, simmering tomato red wine for extended periods will damage the But flavoring food with a small such as a splash of wine, vinegar, or If you're not cooking highly like over 30 minutes, the To prove this point, I squeezed a whole it simmer for about 4 minutes. After the skillet, you can see that the Another myth is that you shouldn't use cast iron and the rough bottom will cause scratches. GE's support documentation says to avoid cast iron cast iron can scratch the surface of the cooktop. Second, cast iron retains a significant amount cooktop and cause the burner to shut down In my experience, cast iron works I know this because I've cooked hundreds of meals in cast iron on my electric Just don't drop the skillet or drag it Also, I've never experienced problems heat back onto the cooktop, nor have I others. Let me know in the comments One of the reasons I love cast exceptionally well. But when people The truth is that iron is a terrible lower thermal conductivity than other cookware materials like aluminum and copper, Once it's fully preheated, it retains But it takes a while to get the middle of the pan closest to the heat source If you're not patient enough food in the middle will Another common misconception about cast iron think this because cast iron cookware down from generation to generation. However, cast iron is actually brittle. It carbon adds hardness but also makes the material made with thick and heavy walls. The Unlike other metals like aluminum which means it will break before it bends. If extreme pressure, especially against a hard To prove this point, I took this on my driveway from about waist high. Here's another angle. I dropped it a second time. Again, no damage. For the third attempt, I placed a large rock on the driveway and dropped This time, the handle broke off. I dropped the pan on the rock a few more Fortunately, that didn't happen, but the impact I realize you probably won't be dropping But the point is that cast iron cookware isn't If you search for tips on seasoning cast iron, worry about seasoning; just cook some bacon.&quot; and cooking fatty meats like bacon can contribute bacon is not the best approach to build an First, most bacon contains sugar, and that sticky. Secondly, bacon and other animal those fats and store your skillet without the purpose of seasoning cast iron is to covers the interior of the skillet, leaving the Another common piece of advice is to coat oil after washing and drying it. People protect the skillet and prevent rust. this step is completely unnecessary. If it thoroughly, it shouldn't rust, and If this was helpful, check out this cons of Lodge cast iron cookware. click the logo to subscribe to the channel. Thanks