Somewhere high up in the north, in the vast and barren terrains lives a very mysterious animal, often symbolic of wisdom, historically revered as a medium The snowy owl. Best known by fans of Harry Potter. In some years, it undertakes the long journey sometimes to Germany. Why does it exert itself to such extremes? Lemmings and snowy owls are entwined. Their relationship most for the lemming and with its death. For the owl, it is essential. The prey is not for the hunter. His mate is waiting. The pair have four offspring to rear. The father The mother stays to feed They have to gain weight quickly because autumn In the land of the snowy owl, the sun won't set for many weeks, it hunts in the daylight. Its eyes are accustomed to it. Nothing escapes its attention. Watching and waiting... That is its strategy, but not for waterfowls. They're not so well suited for the chicks. The owl is waiting It's taking too long for the female. The chicks need Not a problem in good lemming years when the male Then the owls can manage However, right now, That's why the family is so small. When food is in short supply, Nevertheless, it's still not enough Around every four years, there is an explosion At least, that's how it's been until now. Now such a boom time What is it that has disrupted this cycle? If there is too little food, it is the last born, that will pay the price Its chances to compete for its share will be ever more remote. The male is out for increasingly It's vital that the mother manages against the icy winds. In a short time, the temperature The mother deepens the hollow while the father The family is starving. It's as if the lemmings The mother has nothing more She seems to have run out of ideas The adults can deal But for the smallest there is no chance. The male has no time to lose. He has to make sure at least The owl will feed the dead chick Every form of nutrition is imperative as long as the male The fortune of the family is uncertain. One thing is for certain, though, an increase in lemming numbers The chicks have to manage within the next three weeks. If not, they will not survive the winter. The fog hardly clears at all. Already in the middle of August, it is autumn. The geese begin their escape to the south. Snowy owls, however, They remain where they are. A little later much earlier than expected. The landscape that sink to -40 degrees Celsius. It is only they who can adapt Even the feet, velvety soles It's the same with the Arctic fox, white as camouflage and warmly covered with fur, Owls and foxes share a similar fate For both of them, as the temperature sinks. The owl now has a difficult decision. Should it try and bear it out here or is the snow too deep and hard and it will be under threat The fox has no choice in the matter, but the snowy owl does. It doesn't always migrate but will travel It leaves the Siberian desert of ice Traveling at up to 85 kilometers per hour, Ahead lay the fells of North Scandinavia, 2,500 kilometers away Here, the wind clears increasing the owl's chances The open terrain is an invitation to rest. The owl needs a clear view The stranger's presence However, the reindeers to the arduous process The secret as to why they don't suffer lies with their large snouts. The icy air warms up and the heat is retained Their wide hooves act like snowshoes and prevent the animal However, the true master With its white fur and smaller ears, it's perfectly suited This elegant snowshoe sprinter if only it wasn't so very quick. What else is on offer? Snow grouse. They've spent the night a bit like an igloo. Hunger has forced them Many eyes The owl observes them attentively. However, its attention No luck again. Finally, a mountain lemming, a little more bespeckled but just as delicious. It's collecting grasses and lichen That's where it spends well protected and hard to find. The snowy owl must use its chance. The lemming is watchful. Walking on its snowshoes, trusting in its camouflage However, its cover has been blown. The lemming is confoundedly fast. Another attempt is for now Heavy snowfall impedes visibility. This is the beginning of a very hard time, even for the reindeer They only have the chance or to make the energy-sapping journey to search out new pastures The lemming Quite the opposite, it's an ally, foraging, stocking up, eating, and raising its young It manages all that buried under the snow If there's a new covering of snow, against the cold and enemies. For the owl, it's a tragedy because it makes It's only in those places that it has a chance. The first attempt, the rodent, hidden in its labyrinth, It's no stranger to protecting himself. Deep snow hunting, The reindeer leave The snowy owl is also forced to move on. Indeed, the perennial aviator throughout the winter If it doesn't meet with success, Will its undernourished energy reserves last long enough to reach The energy-sapping flight is grueling. A short catch-in-between but here also, the snow is far too deep. The great grey owl It seeks out the mice from above before plunging the last meters landing deep in the snow. Although only around two kilos in weight, it manages up to 40 centimeters under the snow. The competition lurks in the background. The supply of mice is small, Every little bit counts in the winter. The Hunter has already swallowed but it takes a while With such tough competition around, It has to leave the Taiga forests behind. It can't hunt between trees. Open spaces but its destination After a further 500 kilometers, it has still not crossed Exhausted, it stops for a rest. As dusk approaches, the forest of the trolls Millions of bramblings are heading south and are looking A very real spirit of the forest The snowy owl must heed him attentively. He could be very dangerous. A wolverine. This giant marten can cover up to 45 kilometers in a night In the winter, Nothing escapes A leftover carcass However, its attention The lynx is not impressed when it discovers someone The wolverine thinks better of it The lynx is already full and is looking for a quiet branch Taken, the lynx decides not to trouble itself Long and cold hours lay ahead of the owl. It's a night as if made Where the northern lights dance perhaps the myths stemmed from such nights as this. They are the stuff the messenger owl A little more factually seen, they are the result The solar winds, highly charged particles triggering the atoms As the sun rises, this intriguing spectacle The starting gun for the black grouse to perform Every male occupies and sets out to impress the competition, not only acoustically, but dramatically as well. The red wattles above the eyes The oldest and the highest ranking A younger member of the group A duel, it's called. Like two swordsmen, the birds set at each other They attempt A direct hit. The younger has managed For this, it will have to endure with the wings. With this duel, It will only be the winner It seems grouse It forces the owl and to leave It has to finally get By and by, deciduous trees such as birch and the days grow longer and warmer. After another ten days' flight, it finally reaches the North Sea However, instead of finding with resting seabirds beneath, This year, the Arctic temperatures have even gripped Across Denmark, the land of the Vikings, Five thousand kilometers It's only as it reaches the Wadden Sea that things look better. In between the tidal waves, swim schools of flounders Has it finally reached its goal? A young, snowy owl Although less experienced, the younger birds intuitively set off It's found a fully set table Seabirds as far as the eye can see. From mallards to sheldrakes, all fighting for a place as the evening sets in behind the coast. Here, they're best protected overnight like the marten or the fox. By the next morning, most of them have survived and in ice-cold water How do those water birds Astonishingly enough, They are equipped with a perfect Warm blood flows downwards At an abundantly flowing bottleneck, the warm blood exchanges which travels back into the body, saving energy Without such an ingenious the smaller birds above all else Despite this impressive wonder of nature, the birds are constantly under pressure The grey heron normally hunts fish. However, when the waters are frozen, It keeps its eyes on the shelducks, fish hunters like itself. Perhaps he can wrangle something The smew comes from far away, from Siberia, like the snowy owl, The owl waits. Perhaps one of the many birds This solitary duck, perhaps. The lemming hunter The tactic remains the same. It will take what is easiest to overpower. However, hunting birds What makes it even more difficult The snowy owl has to stay hungry for now. A shelduck is having However, that is only short-lived. Here, thievery is the order of the day. Thieves are bound everywhere. No movement escapes attention. Albeit when two are having a dispute, the third one reaps the benefits. The herons haven't given up yet. The gull doesn't even So much commotion all over one fish. Nothing illustrates It's not absolutely the strongest but more they with the most cunning. The clever gull Should the waters freeze completely, it will come down A fight has flared up over the last fish No rule is barred in the bird's efforts They who run out During the harder winters, Only the most resourceful Some animals decide with the hardships of winter. Hidden away in the hollow of a tree, a garden dormouse takes its leave Its body temperature and its metabolism Its heart beats only slightly per minute. A whole range of animals disappear during the winter months, and emaciate themselves Tree hollows are mostly favored The hedgehog, on the other hand, likes to bury itself Hunters like the snowy owl have no chance Many other animals With its bushes filled with berries the coastal region in the north of Germany Fieldfares and the common blackbirds Apples contain large amounts and are good sources of energy. Every apple harvested Even the newcomers arriving from the taiga The waxwings are not the only guests who have made The older snowy owl arrives on the scene. Famished after a flight it is in urgent need of nutrition. However, the partridges are all too aware. Finally, there is hope for the owl again. On the relatively open plains, A hundred years ago, the snowy owl's numbers Today, it is extremely rare. Some even come as stowaways. During a storm in 2014, five American owls From board, they flew over the Netherlands A modern winter's fairy tale. Such a comfortable journey Added to that, it now faces competition... Fox, and ermine. All are chasing the same thing... The mouse. The ermine looks What could be the reason The fox is taking its time. It's monitoring The performance was not without its merit. The ermine aims to shock the mouse and it works. The victory is short-lived. Try again. Very fortunate for the patient guest. Ermines and foxes hunt mice They are dependent on it As ever, the snowy owl watches on. The ermine has to keep Sometimes owls just can't resist A younger snowy owl enters the scene. The feathers of the young and the females Perhaps it's one of her own chicks. The ermine has had enough for the day. End of the show. Not all are such rare guests Whooper swans rest before undertaking their return journey Throughout February, and the spirit of departure Getting 11 kilos off the surface For the young snowy owl, It takes the route along the Baltic coast. It's following the route The best hunting chances Finally comes the thaw. Without snow and ice, Hunting strategies suddenly change. This time the owl and it glides directly toward them, It hovers above with patience. The first to come up for air dies. Today, it is catered for. Around 50,000 barnacle geese now set off The snowy owl also has to endure over 4,000 kilometers An unusually hard northern winter However, such years Who knows if it will find its way Climate change The cyclical lemming outbreak has dropped drastically A possible reason At present, it is around The winters become shorter As a result, the lemmings lose their deep early in the year. The large-scale outbreak has been dramatically reduced. The gradual thaw of the Arctic on many of the specialized and yet the exact ecological consequences The snowy owl has returned The Lapland Longspur When the cotton heads are formed, the first half of the six-week The birds have to hurry The growing season will increase due to climate change. Even the geese which feed on grass The snowy owls Now as before, they're dependent How the diminishing numbers remains to be seen. On the other hand, perhaps they won't be forced as a result of the milder Arctic winter. One thing remains clear for snowy owls, to survive in the magical world of winter, intelligence, a sense of adventure,