Hi, and welcome again. I have a question for you: have you ever wondered how olive So, it all starts with the trees, of course. All the region where we live, Peloponnisos, The best olive oil comes from here, The main variety of olive oil that, or like, called Koroneiki. This is the olives that they are not good for eating, like, you ones are the variety called Kalamata, which is Anyway, the first step in gathering olives is You are going to catch your olives into those see that the workers have sticks with rotating, by this little engine that you see in the corner. just smacking the trees with long sticks, and As you can see, it's quite effective. A and you can see how small those size of raisins compared to the olives So, yeah, that's how it looks. I think this particularly sure. I will have to check it for So, you can see that the guys are gathering the you know, get them in one place because you will see in a moment what happens next. And while we are waiting to see what happens next, I think it's a great time for a little bit of what you see, right? Domesticated, like, believed that they were brought to Greece, and they came from Asia Minor and then started And the Phoenicians also brought the processing pressing the stones and extracting the it is believed that the wild olive trees reached like, 2,800 years before Christ, which is almost However, this is not the first records of production was started around 4,000 years before that suggest that in the Galilee, the olive What you can see over here is the guys in the boxes, and then they drop right? The weird shaking machine serves a and sticks from the actual fruit. You will so the olives fall through the holes into the Those leaves are actually still usable after feed for animals, for goats and sheep. It is including your rubber shoes, so those So, as you can see, the box is shaking, shaking, So, this is how you get your olives packaged, still quite a lot of steps that have to happen Since we do have a little bit the question that probably pops up in your head Can I eat them raw like this, straight from This is because the fresh olives contain, are not tasty at all. Those compounds are called bitterness, the olives actually have to first be for about a month, and then you further And here we are. This is the next step in bringing the stuff into the oil press. with bags. It is the season for olives, so it The way to get them from the bags big boxes. Each of the boxes is so whenever you bring your olives box/crate. They are unloaded manually. No Let's.... let's take a moment to You can see in the video that, generally, the shop, you can just see them green or black, that's come? Why don't they separate them by color? And and then, as they ripen, they do change color It's absolutely okay. It's not something you can choose which you prefer. The green more, well, olive-y taste, and the black all right so now next step that we are seeing is the press, right? You can see that those the big boxes. I believe it depends on how much to bring, if you need to take the bags back to your the forklift they are transported from outside see that the transmission belt is taking them up And while we are waiting for the next steps let This is interesting: so you often see in the shop oil or virgin olive oil, right? This is actually olive oil, so, the extra version is the olive oil is how it's graded based on acidity. So what are The &quot;free acidity&quot; of the extra virgin olive oil is above 2% is not deemed good to to be consumed. Over here what you can see is actually the washing process. So, the transmission belt takes the olive they are washed out of dust, any stones, any are separated at this point, and then olives can see the clean, washed olives are disappearing to the crushing - to the the mill - so, inside you have seeds into a paste. Then the next step all of those have mixers inside. And why the olives after crushing the pieces of mixing allows them to get bigger. So, just bigger that there are some different colors in there: it have more green or more black, not a problem. the oil and this long tube you see over here - the water was separated from the oil by taking so much time... So in modern times it is just that the water is separated from the oil due to things. Now that you know about the little bit of extra info, because I know you love to not be extra virgin? what causes the acidity factors that can cause this, namely: unhealthy Flies or some parasites or mold) or if you delay or if you store them too long, because olives This is it. The longer you wait, the more acidic is somehow bruised, when it's not... you know... the will cause the acidity to be higher. Over here With the forklift -&gt; transported -&gt; tilted. Way actually get to the next steps of the process, running... It is a bit murky, and this is because press where we were filming is not filtering the just better. Ask anyone - the fresh olive oil sediment) and when you get this kind of fresh your storage container (like the ones you can see bottom, and it's not an issue. So, over here you can see the scale uh waiting for the container for the ready oil to gas gun - it looks like those guns you get on the are the sizes of the boxes that you see? The bigger you can put in each of those, and the smaller ones It absolutely depends on you, it depends What storage capacity you have - it's up or &quot;I want my oil in the big&quot;. This the symbolism of oil and olives in general [actually, just a lore]. Athens are called Athens according to gifted olives to the city, and this was a got of the sea) who gifted Athens with a salty olives are more precious than a salt spring, so that's We got our olive oil ready, we are done. big, big thank you to the whole crew of The Olive the description so you can learn even more work and the processes of making olive oil. So,