Completely disappearing from the internet is no one tool or privacy hack that can completely However, when you stack these nine relatively - and I guarantee there are at least three - you can make some significant steps toward At the core of All Things Secured is the belief celebrity or common person like you and me That's why everything I'm about to share But it does represent an important shift in and deal with your personal data. Let's dive in. This may sound weird, but anytime I am asked in person or if I'm verifying something use my passport. Why? The primary reason is because between my passport less information about me. Anybody who has a copy of the front of my birthday, my height, my eye color, my physical With my passport, all they know is my name, issued. I admit this doesn't make a huge difference, these tiny changes, it does have an impact. These next few secrets take advantage of different your personal data. For example, instead of giving out my home for it, I give them my virtual address to This virtual address receives my mail and review on my phone. I then have the option of having them scan If you want to understand how this works, ago. With the exception of government agencies address everywhere it can be accepted to mask In a similar way, I am very picky about who Instead, I mask my number with a service like all texts and calls through an app on my phone. So how does this work? You could buy a lifetime phone number through text and phone calls without actually giving Or your current number is already overwhelmed to Google Voice, start over with a new number screen everything through the Voice app. Using Hushed will cost you $25 but it's Google Voice, on the other hand, is free, number is a bit cumbersome. It's up to you. Before we move on, have you subscribed to If you enjoy learning about privacy and security, So hit that subscribe button! By now, all of us have used our personal email it almost feels like masking your email address Thankfully, there are a lot of new services If you have any kind of Apple iCloud subscription, Email feature, which I've explained in this There are other standalone services like FastMail a small fee. It all boils down to the fact that again, always giving out as you surf the internet trash or change. I've talked about this a lot before, but Blur or Revolut that allow you to create virtual In other words, instead of giving away the is difficult to change or replace, you're I have a card for Netflix that only works I have a card for Amazon that only works for I have a specific card for any subscription to cancel and they make it difficult, all no longer make a charge. Best of all, in terms of being invisible, Privacy.com, allow you to use any name and to give away your actual name and address. Have you ever done a search for your name Especially if you Google your name and the at how much personal information is freely I've actually gone through and scrubbed some services now list my wife as being unmarried The next step, of course, is to scrub my wife's It's possible to scrub this data yourself, I've already done a video on before. You can watch that video next to see how that A good portion of our personal information the info that we voluntarily publish on platforms The extreme version of this kind of privacy media accounts. That takes a special kind of person and if For everybody else, becoming invisible requires Facebook profile and simply being careful When I surf the internet, I go between using I've configured Firefox in a way that I'm is that it offers incredible privacy right Part of being invisible online is stopping from following you all around the internet. Brave does that and, as a result, actually have to load these trackers. Best of all, Brave is a free download with here. Last but not least, another way to make yourself network or a Tor connection. Now fundamentally, these are two different in this video here, but the end result is as you browse through the internet. A VPN, I use a service like ExpressVPN, can data. A Tor connection, which there's one available by relaying it through multiple servers around This is all just the tip of the spear, I realize. There are so many more tools and tricks to you to share anything I've missed in the What do you think? Are there other ways to hide yourself online?