I hired the best Minecraft builders to make the most insane builds a time limit anywhere from one hour Starting with this medieval fort Wait, one hour? When you said one hour, Like a little play fort. Wait, what are these little birds up here? Oh, and the back has a little gate. No inside. But we did only give them one hour. I mean, I feel like for one hour they built this much, which is crazy. This is large for one hour. Well, there's not really much So what do you guys want to rate it I'm going to give it a seven. I'm giving this a six out of ten. And I'm going to give it a six giving it a total score of 19 - Technically in the lead. Whichever build is rated the highest by the end of this video gets a $1,000 tip on top of what S'money. Up next is a pirate ship house What a step up. Oh, my gosh. I feel like off the bat, I'm just realizing how Yeah. Give me 200 hours Guys. There's a crab. Wait, look, there's That's a cool touch. Yeah, they have a cave with glowing stuff. They have a whole custom ocean Their prompt was a pirate house, and I think they did a This is crazy to me. This one does have an interior. There's not much furniture I don't know. I don't know if this is ten times - Wally, what are you giving us out of 10? Yeah, I'll go with the 6 too. Okay, a 6.2, And then I'm also going That's not what I said. At an 18.4, that first castle. But will the castle beat out this space station Oh, man. Now we are talking. Dude... This is beautiful. The only prompt I gave and that they had a 50 hours to build it. This is so gorgeous. Look at this ship. It's got dual laser shooters, bro. That is so cool. Wait, how do they even do this, guys? Guys, they have an interior. Check it out. Oh, come on. I'm breaking in there. I'm about to blow up the world. No! Wait, how big is this interior? This is actually awesome. There's, like, But to be fair, this did Then there's like, It's actually so sick. This just keeps going forever and ever. I can see myself living in this. Dude, the planets I'm a big guy to some atmosphere. Dude, look. Wait. What if I told you Okay, I think we've been exploring this What are you guys going to Dude, I'm going to be honest. I love this build, With 50 hours and this prompt, they could have done a better job. I'm going to give this a 9 out of 10. Nine? It loses one point that are surrounding it I'm just blown away by the fact I will give it a nine out of ten. Which gives us a total obliterating It is currently in the lead, this Mars colony that literally took Okay. Wait, look at this, You guys see this? That is so cool. These builders are so talented. Keep in mind, guys, while this could exactly double the Well, I'm inside this, like, tree This is sick. I love the way that they used ferns My character looks so sick in this. If I press the red button on Karl's I hope so. There's tons of custom terrain. It's a huge, complete map. There's, like, so much to explore. Wait, There is a giant spaceship on top of all this thing, Got to see if the spaceship Yeah. There is a lack of interiors here. No way. No interior is definitely a downside. I've looked around enough. Do you guys think this beats out the space station Honestly, I think I like the space I'm gonna give this a 7.5. Yeah. I like the space station I'm giving it an eight. I'm going to give this an eight as well, barely losing to the space station. And there's only two builds left, that took 500 hours to build. Oh, I'm lagging. Help! Help! Mine ran out of memory. I got kicked. That's how you can tell It literally Oh, my gosh. Look at this. This guy is chugging on some drink. I feel like this is itching So does it look like it took five times the amount of time as the Mars colony? That's the question. I feet like this one is but it's not necessarily The statues are the best part. Oh, my gosh. - Wait a second. There's no interior? Oh, no. 500 hours. I'm flying through a lot of these They probably should have focus and focus a little bit more on I agree. Yeah, I feel like the interiors and make it all come together, you know? I'm going to give this a seven. I'm going to give it a 6.5. I'm giving it a six, leaving the space station as the leader It's a gigantic medieval city I feel like I just need to take some Look. I'm holding a shield that says KJ. Oh, my gosh, this is crazy. There's like characters walking around. That's such a cool detail. I found a guy drowning. I got you, man. I got you. Oh, no. This whole village looks like Oh, my gosh. Guys, there's a thief Wait, guys, look. He's telling them a Christmas story. Is this like a mage casting a spell? What is this? I'm just looking around at everything. Look at that tree, dude. It's the I want to live at this castle, man. Look at how beautiful it is right here. Look at the attention Guys, There's interiors. - There's a guy, like, holding drinks. Oh, my gosh. I actually feel like Dude, look, Oh, my gosh. Oh, wait, they invited... Oh, they invited Nolan. Minus points, but then they invited Wait, there's a city outside I feel like there's so many things I'm literally just not There's a coliseum. What? Is that a MrBeast versus Well, there's a there's like, Look at this like, the detail They even made a pirate ship almost better than the pirate ship It's like every single section of Dude, I could just fly around It's so pretty to look at. Keep in mind, while you guys are thinking about rating it, But even with 1000 hours, I feel Everywhere I look, I find something new This is a gorgeous and stunning build, but is it the same amount as the space station Wally, what are you giving It gives 1000 hours of entertainment. So I'm going to give this build A ten? I don't care that it took 1000 hours. I don't care how many hours it took. I'm giving this thing a ten. For bang for your buck, to me, it's only slightly worse so I'm going to give it an eight, which puts this officially beating the space station Congratulations to the build team Don't forget to subscribe