we are martina and marek and this is our dog there's a new video from us about our wondered how much our extension cost and I under 2500. And what it ended up being we bought our vw t5 for 13,800 EUR. in the summer. But we quickly caught the used, year of construction 2016, has 84 hp and had like any proper campervan it needs a name Since we got Franzek we have driven a total of we've been to Morocco, we've been to Abruzzo in Italy, Slovakia Franzek had a total of nine seats when we bought it, In the meantime, Franzek only has five seats. because a van usually only has three seats. we actually had the windows tinted. We didn't want the darkest variant that was available at the workshop cheap. But it looks professional and not And for the night we also have blackout mats. For the front we have a used set from a T4. They fit sewn. There is an insulating foil between the We paid a total of EUR80 for Compared to a new complete set, this is an unbeatable price. Lubricates everything. On a holiday in poland we took franzek in the places behind the bodywork where we could for a roll of amaflex and a few tins of brake cleaner As we already had the side panelling down for the insulation spontaneously decided to rebuild the poplar plywood panels. It is a beautiful the panelling. We then glazed the 48 EUR and it looks much nicer than the Let's move on to our swivel seat. We have passenger seat. To make our living space a little the kiravans swivel console for it ourselves. but we are also jealous of anyone who can do it Unfortunately, it takes a bit of work to turn it. Our centrepiece is of course our campervan box. We followed the principle of our of modifying the car in a minimally invasive way. So to be able to undo it. So we had in mind out again. We let ourselves be inspired For our campervan box For our bed we upgraded our And we got the plates from We have somewhat high standards when it comes to we our old 20 cm thick mattress. I both pieces of the mattress. For the fabric and The campervam box works just as well honestly - we are real eye-catchers on the on our two heavy-duty pull-outs have a total we just pull them out with one hand of the boot. The cost is all the boxes we have. For the euro boxes we used the are a tad cheaper and are damage or defects. The only thing we didn't we actually did our entire boxes quite well structured. The most important thing Our roof box is the Thule Vision 850. and with a roof rack Our roof box is really worth its weight in gold it is our most important additional And then we've got a couple of boxes that are we built ourselves like As further storage space we have our bathroom cupboard, which also provides On our left-hand pull-out is probably the consists of aluminium profiles and HPL panels and There is a lot of space on top for kitchen utensils, there is room for our gas cooker and cutlery. 20 percent more space than the old one. If you want to take a euro box, put a drawer in it fully-fledged kitchen box. For comparison: the old On the other side there is a a water pump with shower function. We want to is very, very practical. We haven't had a shower with it yet to try it out. We wanted a permanent place so we mounted the module according to our requirements practically disguised. It is a huge advantage our batteries and powerbanks have a place battery has been secondary. We drive quite well on holidays and charge everything up. In between, when we are free twice, and after that we'll be back We have a powerbank with power-delivery tangle of cables, we have a few multi-charging cables Our emergency loo, the ceramic fan heater for the cool nights. and adapters - all this cost a total of 140 So we ended up with costs of the question is, does the roof box come with it? in the end you have to ask yourself: do a parking heater. Because those are real Very cliche - the kitchen box. The kitchen box is practical, because you sleep on it. Then you need equipment, a few pots and pans and then you've got holiday. That's all we had at the beginning.