LEGO is about to airdrop these Fortnite them in detail before the storm gets me. It the way they are in this day and age, so this you LEGO for sending these for review. the new Fortnite products and given how iconic sense to be made as a LEGO set. The restaurant build as it does feature some cool studs not on can see the layers of meat cheese and tomato Eyes popping out are actually brick-built, no it is quite the affordable product, making it a no to gift this to Fortnite players and fans. The LEGO Supply Llama is the perfect LEGO ask for. It features a beloved icon of the game, people into LEGO if this is their first ever the model itself is as colorful as you would find see in real life. The texture you'd get out of a a ton of curved and cheese slopes to a great building techniques. Don't go expecting it to pose a way that you can adjust its pieces, same with this while you can have some liberties with with the ears that can also be posed differently though the nose nostrils are a sticker as Which brings us to a cool play feature, In game and that is also the case here in the LEGO model, and the loot will come falling down like this from this backpack thing of sorts, every other that new game mode Fornite has. There's a Rough Slurp Juice and Dynamite. To put the loot back up here to drop everything inside, or keep It displays really nicely, it's iconic and as almost 700 pieces this will retail for $40. What?! slopes but still! So with all of that there's no demand coming the Christmas season making it The Battle Bus is perhaps the most iconic the first thing you see when entering a new And while the vehicle is impressive on its it where I'll start this particular review. level of detail goes miles beyond what you'd everything's exclusive, there's brand new pieces All 9 of them. And all 9 are made after skins Brawler and Brite Bomber for starters are highly Cuddle Team Leader has this very impressive head face which is also double printed. Meowscles counterpart with the weirdly mismatch of the body with arm printing. Adventure Peely is awesome trouble of printing the hip section, even though Drift has this insanely detailed head piece with the character's mohawk. The Cube Assassin really cool, the Trespasser Elite has a similar finally the Raven that goes extra hard with the legs. If you've told me these 9 figures were part I would believe you. All minifigures also carry Grapplers, Slurp Juices and a Slap Juice. personally not as impressed with the build it still is a great looking model that respects details are all there, like that balloon thingy or up top, appropriately made with LEGO balloon or those mechanical details going on the sides of a few decorations that are actually stickers, bus one at the front, back, and an extra one in fact all do, while the front one may be harder front is also loaded with small details like the and speaking off, not sure if intentional revealing what's inside. It is a bus, and you're the reason why you can remove the entire roof carry the exact number of seats required to seat Being the flying vehicle that it is, I Ballon section would be possible, as the studs used to connect the roof to the bus My custom LEGO builders eyes can't help but think iconic yellow school buses right? Just remove all all to yellow and you'd have yourself a perfect Price wise, this is the least impressive will retail for $100 but considering the and the insanity that is having 9 exclusive me think twice about that assumption. Something bits and IP requirements would be priced a lot So with all of that in mind, the Battle Bus offers a lot of value for the specific audience and minifigure collectability while being the averages on IP based LEGO products. Peely Bone set as much as I did, so here I am inexplicably cool about having such a sure nothing too crazy, but then having him split of this made out of LEGO? That's right up my complexity which was also appropriately age further reinforced by the fact that it has an building it was nothing short of amazing, just You get the name plaque, printed, as are the quite the detailed build with lots of color and hand, as can the Banana PickAxe, perfect weapon policy. Quite impressive actually how they managed when the inspiration they're drawn from In the back Peely carries a backpack that is weapons as stated in the building instructions, usual 18+ spread of pages with a bit of insight While the character is locked in place, there and pose them as you see fit and I kinda like the toned body shape the character has with the types of rounded tiles in the leg. spots shown here and there? All prints. The tile also prints! And for the first time ever, the on the back of the character because in real life, If it weren't for that, which is still completely zero stickers, that is extremely rare people, stops here. And even though the Banana side top here where he is literally starting to peel impressive to me. His exposed digestive system cannot explain and the piece usage to achieve that and bone structures done in LEGO before, but this as is the skull build itself that is hiding two to see more of in upcoming LEGO products. and this one surprised me. There's lots of odd where the rock the foot is supported on is, this the body. I've shown you the bottom of the top techniques used in the main body and the top was very satisfying to put together. prints and new pieces, can you take a guess at for? Guess lower. 100 freaking dollars. How? a bit on that topic I just wanna wrap While this may not be my go to top recommendation this is, especially so if you couldn't care less that this one blew me away on so many levels as is wacky and displays real nice and I still can't Fornite however and the budget isn't an issue, From a business perspective LEGO can't really go franchise is. Over 200 million people played lie. If LEGO can tap into that relatively they're hopefully turning the attention of of LEGO products and getting new customers through long to finally come up with these. of value these sets have, these price per pieces don't come cheap and yet, Fortnite This puts some of the other LEGO IPs to shame mean. LEGO is literally pulling all the stops am happy about, people who get LEGO Fornite best products the company has done in a while, treatment as often across the portfolio as there's Thanks for watching and I'll