Mark Zuckerberg was once on his way to becoming In September 2021, his net worth reached $142 on Earth. This man gave birth to the social media industry. Yet today, the Facebook founder has seen his him down to 28th place on the Bloomberg Billionaires Zuckerberg's fall reflects that of his company. At one point, Meta was valued at $1 trillion. Today, Facebook's parent company has lost Its market value is now lower than that of On November 9, Meta announced it laid 11,000 That's nearly triple the number of employees In a message posted to his company's website, "I know this is tough for everyone, and Meta has burned billions - spending so furiously it could eventually cost more than the entire $250 billion adjusted for inflation. We believe the metaverse will be the successor We believe in this vision so deeply that we Last year, in October 2021, Facebook the company a new focus. The metaverse is a vision of the future where reality or augmented reality headsets. Quest Pro is the first in a new line of advanced In the same way that everyone has a smartphone a headset tomorrow. He's been intentionally pivoting away from Facebook's own research shows it's struggling Facebook's number of daily active users And TikTok has been taking away eyeballs from run ads. It was already a painful year for Meta BEFORE Meta dropped $232 billion in value in one Zuckerberg blamed it partly on Apple's privacy of whether they'd allow apps like Facebook If people opt out, Facebook receives less difficult, costing the company ad revenue. But what's been really dragging down Meta's Spending on the metaverse is absolutely BONKERS. Hey Meta spent $10 billion on the metaverse in That's 10 times what it paid to buy Instagram. $10 billion is just a number I had trouble I feel sick to my stomach thinking about that John Carmack is an adviser to Meta and the the VR company Facebook acquired. His comments put him at odds with Zuckerberg, basket. Zuckerberg is committed to a division of Meta headsets and software. Reality Labs reportedly has 17,000 employees entire workforce. Like other tech companies, Meta went on a was locked away at home on their computer. But now, Zuckerberg admits Meta grew too quickly; soared, and investors are nervous about costs. Facebook has weathered storms before - even didn't hurt its financial performance. But this time...it's different. Although tech stocks have been in a slump, and the S&amp;P 500. November's job cuts are the most significant A hiring freeze will be extended until March Employees will lose some perks. They already lost free laundry and dry cleaning Zuckerberg is asking his employees and investors And his plan for the metaverse. In fact, he's made himself the face of his According to the New York Times, some meta an acronym for "make Mark happy." But he wasn't very happy after he posted network Horizon Worlds and the world laughed People on Twitter were RUTHLESS, comparing decades ago. In response to the mocking, Zuckerberg promised an improved version three days later. But even Meta's employees are barely using In September, the vice president in charge wrote in an internal message board obtained don't love it, how can we expect our users He said managers would start tracking employees' Nearly all of Zuckerberg's wealth is tied So he's betting his entire fortune on the During Meta's earnings call in October, "I get that a lot of people might disagree I think people are going to look back on decades the work that was done here." But for now, as one headline proclaims, its It remains to be seen whether the metaverse There is another company transforming the Henson Shaving makes one of the very best Henson knows a thing or two about making a out of the same machine shop in Canada that Station! So their razors are made to aerospace standards. The blade is only minimally exposed; the amount is less than the thickness of a strand of blade from flexing, to deliver that smooth Henson has sponsored quite a few of my videos, Their razors are completely plastic-free, The blades only cost about ten cents so once $3 to $5 a year to shave depending on how Their safety razor lasts years if not decades. So over time, the cost of owning a Henson Plus, it's environmentally friendly. Henson ships all around the world, and they're If you use my discount code: NEWSTHINK, you'll Be sure to add the 100-pack to your shopping My custom link is in the description. And by the way, their razors also make for Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.