Transcriber: Michele Gianella Sometimes, easy means difficult. Have you ever been assigned an easy task, which for you is actually and maybe for nobody else? That is when you experience frustration. I have experienced that and my teacher told me That's easy, it's our natural breath, and it's a secret of the great singers. It's similar to what happens when a boss comes into a meeting Come on, give me your creative ideas. Think out of the box. I want to hear that. I need innovation. Easy, simple, but actually You need to practice. You need to know how to get and how to come back inside the box, We actually live inside our boxes. I want to ask these questions. I asked those questions to myself. This presentation is a little journey I hope that some of these The first thing is to ask, why. Why should you really go out of the box? Because inside the box, we feel safe. We agree with everybody else. And when we go out, We worked so hard why should we risk it? Is this something which is a luxury, or is it really a necessity? Why? Think of our lives today. We are really a part of a network. We are nodes in a network. We share information in a real time, and we, in the end, That's the end of it, If we all possess the same information, what makes a difference between ourselves? Where does our dignity It really depends on what we generate To think creatively, to go out It's a necessity for us, Which box are we talking about? We must have a clear definition, so that we are really talking It's not our mind; It's a boundary within our minds. The boundary between what we know, and what we haven't still, What is our mind? What is our knowledge structure? It's an emergent phenomenon which is the brain. We start with initial conditions, We have boundary conditions, We have indirect experience, years and years spent to learn what other people have thought, what other people have discovered, what other people have created. Then, we have our own direct experience, our successes, our failures All of this builds the anthill and we live very well in that. Whatever we think inside that anthill, Whatever is outside, it's invisible to us. We don't know what it's outside. That is why it's so risky, We are faced with something but actually it's very difficult to do. How do we go out of the box? What are the mechanisms? Do we need to wait for an apple or are there some specific techniques? Reality is out there It's beautiful. You see these flowers. We have a lot of ideas, the dominant ideas. Whenever we need to think we have ideas on how things should be. We have requirements, We know how things are, because that's the way But if we want to go out of the box, we need to add something more, something which goes beyond Something wrong, something absurd, something which apparently something which takes us far. This is what we call We need a little bit to cross the borders within our minds, from what we know This is the essential mechanism and it takes us to a place We are suspended. It's like the middle game in chess. Where do you go You have no preset direction. It's really a potential situation that brings us to a feeling This does not make any sense. Let's go back to safe place. That's a temptation We need to value long thinking. Normally, fast thinking, deep thinking, but here we're talking long thinking. What does that mean? It's some thought that takes us far. It's as if you were reading poetry You don't judge the single notes. You don't judge the single words. It's the ensemble that gives you We must do the same thing We need to go far. We can use association of ideas, combination of ideas, and application of those principles to areas where they were We need to be open-minded. Look for alternatives, Because when you think creatively, There are many possible alternatives. Suppose now that we are lucky. We land upon a new idea in our travel, in the exploration out of the box. What is the value of that? How do we assess the value of a new idea? It's very difficult if it's really new, Nobody else has seen that before. It's as if we landed on a new planet, It's difficult to understand First of all, because we don't feel Who am I to be the generator Probably this has been If this is correct, somebody else These are all natural mechanisms We have to resist that. We have to look for the match and our initial drive, our initial focus, or evaluate the idea per se, and maybe see that that's something which it was not yours. Serendipity happens all the time. We just need to have the eyes to see that, to notice the difference. Ok, but we are social animals. We live in an environment, so to think out of the box, is going to challenge that environment. When is it a good idea in your working environment? You have a boss. You don't really want to upset him or her. When is it a good idea First of all, if the environment you will never be really tempted You will remain safely If you want to stimulate you need to allow the existence You need to allow You have to mix and match You have to use metaphors Only in that case, to be really prone I want to end my talk We wanted to do this but the time is scarce. I have indeed prepared a little thing, but if you believe me, and to be honest, this has been generated The generation of ideas, is something which happens very fast. Where should we experiment? Let's say that we want to generate We are here, so that's a focused area Let's start from the convergent What is needed to make You need the brilliant speakers You need an excellent theme. You need fast You need grand settings. The list can go on, and all I'm saying This is all convergent information, safe. I'm not generating anything new. Now I want to go out, so I apply a divergent modifier to any of these convergent elements. Start from the last one for example, A divergent modifier, Bring it to the limit. Instead of thinking think of a TEDx Conference in a stadium. Does this make any sense, in a stadium? Very difficult to organize, and how do you fill the place? How do you fill the stadium? It's too difficult. I'm tempted to reject that idea. But then I move, and I say, ok, maybe the stadium From that, you can get the idea of having a TEDx Conference a network of speeches which happens Good idea, bad idea? Take another element: That's the most fundamental element Let's take that away. We eliminate the good, brilliant speakers. Does this make any sense? Does this lead to anything useful? I could say that, but I need the speeches, From this comes the idea of one speaker delivering We exchange speakers. So it's a cooperative TEDx Conference. Maybe we have duets on stage, or we have people that speak about, somebody has this topic. In that way we have We take away the element of the ego. There's no ego anymore, if you're speaking These are just examples, just examples, to show you that it's possible to think out of the box. I hope this journey, in a way, and now you want to do more of that. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause)