In this episode of MarieTV, we do have some around grab your headphones now. Hey. It's Marie Forleo, and you're listening to You know, today's culture is one that's filled What we need most in times like these are who are willing to be brave, to be courageous, My guest today is here to show us how to do Dr. Brene Brown is a research professor at the Huffington Foundation Brene Brown Endowed She spent the past two decades studying courage, the author of four number one New York Times Strong, Daring Greatly, and The Gifts of Imperfection. Her TED Talk, The Power of Vulnerability, in the world--yes, in the world--with Brene lives in Houston, Texas with her husband Her latest book which we're going to talk Conversations, Whole Hearts, is available Brene, it is so great to have you on the You're one of my favorite humans in the whole I texted you this, but I need to say it right out of the park. My book is filled with underlines and highlights but I need to ask you. You're so prolific. I am curious. Why this topic and why right now? First, I just... Anywhere, anytime, doing anything, I'm yours. I'm in. Thank you for having me back. Let me tell you. The last time we did something together, you You have an amazing crew. Not only the people who work with you, but So thank you for inviting me in again. Anytime. So why this book? Oh, my god. It's a really good question. A couple years ago, we got super clear. Like the name of our company is Brene Brown So we have this mission of making the world our work in a really accessible, relevant I realized and I had already been studying a leadership book per se. I thought I would just weave it in like I Strong and weave it into other books. I had this huge epiphany actually in New York. I was working with an organization that has The leadership was not showing. They weren't showing up like they wanted to People were just really in a dark place. I thought &quot;You know what? You can't change the world. You can't make the world a greater place if we spend more than half of our lives at work.&quot; I think everyone listening will attest to shaming, if work makes you question your value, Yes. That gets an amen on a Wednesday or Thursday Yeah. So I just thought &quot;You know what? I'm going to do this.&quot; I think it's a book for everyone. We define... I define a leader as anyone who takes responsibility and has the courage to develop that potential. So this is not a book for people in the C-Suite This is a book for every one of us that wants purpose. So in the book, you talk a lot about armored Let's talk about what is underneath these I just want to underscore what you just said like, especially in my community for the folks emails and just keeping in touch with our is not thinking that our voice matters, not say or that, as you said, if we're not in level, that we're not a leader. But I do think, as you well know, now more in every corner of every organization, of Let's think about this from that perspective. Armored leadership versus daring leadership, So here's what was really... I have to be honest with you. This was the most... This kind of blew my hypothesis out of the I went in thinking that the biggest barrier We're afraid. There's a lot of new research in here including process of building and instrument to measure I started looking at the data, and I was like I don't think fear... I don't think the greatest barrier to daring I'm wrong.&quot; So I went back and started interviewing some leaders I know again from social justice movements &quot;Fear? No, I'm afraid all the time.&quot; I was like &quot;What do you mean?&quot; They're like &quot;No, I'm afraid everyday.&quot; I was like &quot;It's not fear.&quot; Then as we started digging, what we realized It's our armor, how we show up when we're Some of us, in fear, recognize the fear. We're very aware of what kind of armor we us, myself included, still to this day when or criticized, we armor up. That armor, those different behaviors we use move us into fear, they keep us away from are toxic to whatever our mission and purpose So what it really came down to, the heart If everyone's afraid, daring leadership is figure out what the hell's going on and stay Armored leadership is those terrible behaviors What do some of those look like for you? So I know for me, even mostly in a personal Yeah. For me to armor up, I know it's like I shut In the book, you were writing... I actually have some friends that I joke with It's almost like I do turn into a Transformer. All of the metal, right? Everything just comes up and it's like boom. It all gets sucked inside and it's like you My vision, my heart, everything closes down. I'm curious what are some of the ways that Well 16 of them emerged from the research. It was 16 different types of armor. Our armories are very full, and 16 kind of armor. But I think some of the big ones that we face: failure. Yes. Perfectionism is armor. I mean perfectionism is the 20-ton shield. Yes. It's really... All perfectionism... I mean it's not striving for excellence or That's completely different. That's completely internally motivated. Yes. Perfectionism is &quot;Oh, god. What will people think?&quot; Yes. So the daring leadership response to perfectionism empathy, and self-compassion. So if you've got a team and I'm thinking about cult-like but great way and most of them are I mean they lean into your work so heavily Yes. I can tell you... And most of them are women. Not all, but most. I can tell you, from interviewing a lot of times... I mean I get teary-eyed every time I think I sat across from someone who sunk all their and really started this thing that they believed corrode it. Yes. Yes. It breaks my heart. I try to share as often as possible, Brene, and how long--seven years--I had all know what I was doing. And I still am the farthest thing from perfect. We make mistakes all the time. I love that we're talking about this. I really, really do. I think it's especially important in the time obviously most of our favorite social media can look the shiniest and the prettiest and conversation. But I was having a talk with a girlfriend How are you?&quot; Because she's been experiencing a really tough, I said &quot;I've been watching you on Instagram We were laughing because she's like &quot;Instagram's Yeah. I howled out loud, but to your point about one of the ways that we armor up, I just really this out because it's so, so important. Another thing I highlighted in the book which I really want to drive home this point that We do not have to stop feeling afraid to do Thank you. Y'all, I mean people make up... I could just spend the rest of my life reading and what my life is like. I'll be honest with you. I texted my chief of staff like five minutes &quot;Oh, my god. Is this shit with Marie audio or video?&quot; She goes &quot;Audio. I've already told you I'll give you a head Right now, I'm sitting here. My hair is wet and I've got like masks under being sick. I threw my tennis shoes on. I just came downstairs. I've got one Adidas tennis shoe on and one I didn't realize I grabbed two different tennis Yes. Okay. You want to trade stories? Yeah. So I came into my studio. Right now, same thing. It's like a little bit. Today's one of those hot fall days in New Yeah. My uniform when I'm not doing my show which It's MarieTV. It's a show.&quot; But I run into people all the time on the My uniform is a really comfy v-neck tee-shirt That is my happy place. So I come into my studio about to record this, So I have a thing where if I have a lot of That's just one of the things that helps me So I think it was like a week or two ago. We were here in the studio filming some stuff, many... You know when you just look around, you're Like it just accumulates. So my team helped me clear things out because getting ready for this podcast and guess what, My podcast mike that we're on right now, the is not fucking there. So it's literally... So I'm like &quot;Oh, shit. I got to talk to Brene in like 10 minutes.&quot; So here's where grace comes in. I knew I chose this particular location where First of all, it's around the corner from to be down the street from a place called like cameras, audio equipment. I am running down the street, Brene. Everything is jingling. This is like literally 10 minutes before you sweating bullets to get this USB port, begging I'm like &quot;Hey, I'm about to record a podcast I really need this USB port. Can you help me?&quot; They ran, got the USB port. I'm running back down in Manhattan on the For anyone thinking that we have our shit Yeah. That's a lie. Don't tell yourself that in order so you can You don't... Don't use me. Yes. Don't use me as your &quot;I suck&quot; snuggle toy. Oh, my god. I love you. Yeah, because that's not going to work. Okay. So moving on, let's talk about shame and empathy. I want to dive into shame first. On page 126 of Dare to Lead, you write &quot;Shame You also write that the fear of being irrelevant--and times. &quot;The fear of being irrelevant is a huge shame I threw my hands up when I read that. I think this is so true for employees in this I think it's true for CEOs. I think it's true for startups, for anyone a positive impact in this world. This is one of the things in the room that same of being irrelevant because things are So I'm curious to hear more of your take on I think it's one of the biggest shame triggers I've got to tell you that comparison is the Yes. Yes. Whether you've got your own side hustle and You're in a really steady job that you're is. We just spend so much time and energy checking Yes. There's nothing that kills you in a race like it's interesting because going back to the one of the comparisons of the two and how Yes. And the other is knowing... daring leadership When I say knowing your value, I don't mean you and I love you and you're awesome, Brene. Let's go kick some ass.&quot; I mean if you do that, that's rock on. That's great. What I'm talking about is a sit-down with you work with, with the people, the family Etsy business, whoever that you trust. Sit down and say &quot;Help me explore and name Help me know what it is that I do uniquely Tell me what it is that you think the strengths We have to understand our value because for Shame will pick somebody else. They'll pick on someone else. They don't choose the people who are very to stick to us sometimes. So I think... I know my value. I know what it is and I know what it isn't. I know that the budget work and doing proformas I have a CFO that's amazing at doing that. What I know is my strength is... It's really weird and it's tied to my purpose. I'm really good at seeing connections between wrapping language around it in a way that less alone. I know that's my thing. Absolutely. So yeah, when I come out of a week where I've is stared at spreadsheets, which I'm not good someone... My CFO is really good with me because he wraps the numbers. I'm like, I tell him, &quot;That makes sense to But when we don't know our value and there whatever, we're the first to go. Then we start hustling. Then we start &quot;I don't know my value. I don't know if I'm relevant. Look at me. Look at me. Look at me over here. I've got the answers to everything. I'm the best.&quot; Then we go into comparison. Then it's just a shit show from that point Totally. I think you hit on something that I really I felt it in my heart when you said it. I recognized it in myself. Sometimes... We have a program named B-School, right? Yeah. Of course. I work with people every year and I have so One of the things that I often do is I just In that particular case, it's been in our on... That's actually really fun for me because hell I am. I'm just like &quot;Yeah. All right. Let's do this, guys. Let's throw down. Let's talk. What are your questions? What's happening?&quot; I am so alive when I get to work with people, I have started to recognize in myself if I my strengths... When you were saying, right, if I haven't wrapping language around, and making it accessible not alone. If you haven't flexed those muscles enough, and then all of a sudden, we start looking Comparison hits in and I call it compareschlager. I feel like it's-- Do you remember... You may not remember this, but maybe for me, terrible liquor way, way back in the day. Oh, yeah. Oh, with the gold flakes. It's like once you do a few shots of that, It's really hard. So I do want to underscore for anyone listening, Yes, comparison is one of my habits,&quot; Brene The more that you understand and know your sure you're practicing that, exercising that, space and time we kind of pull back and go I love it. One of the things that made me really proud on a lot was getting some 360 feedback about everything was great. It was a pretty mixed bag, but one thing that me could almost recite verbatim what they that we had about their value. That's awesome. Yeah. It's... I think one of the most dangerous things I've with other leaders is when we're leading a Let's just stick with value for a second because There's value, like what value do you bring So this is, to me, one of the biggest hacks changer. And we've done this work everywhere from the board, and it has changed teams. It's this. One, make sure the people who work with you, sure they understand their value. Have an explicit conversation about it. Then, I don't think you can really know people Not the value they bring, but the ideas and One of the exercises we do, and it's so great, we hang it up. And everyone writes down their two values. Mine are faith and courage. And then we spend, we leave them up for a everyone on our team puts a sticky note up behaviors really show those values and what person. And when you're sitting with a team during a failure, or we made a consumer facing mistake, across from someone and you're pissed and values are connection and learning. You know how to lean into the conversation You know it's going to hurt, you know what when things are tough. We're just not having enough of these conversations stand for. I'm so excited about this, because you just I was just thinking, as I'm listening to you, to be fun for us to do because we have a virtual Our entire team is distributed. Yeah. There's about 30 of us, and we do very, very We get together, periodically. We went on vacation together in Mexico, I ago, but this is going to be fun for us to And we love each other. Thank you for highlighting that because we're In my personal life, Love Languages, one of in my relationship with Josh, and even frankly team so that we understand each other, and to one another in a way that's going to be This value conversation is top-notch. I also want to talk about empathy. Again, this was another section in the book, You write, &quot;In those bad moments, it's not Our job is to connect. It's to take the perspective of someone else. Empathy is not connecting to an experience, an experience. Empathy isn't about fixing, it's the brave Let's talk about this distinction, because here between empathy and sympathy. Yeah. I think one of the issues, every now and then, Every now and then, social scientists will accept, feel encouraged by, and they'll go A couple of years ago, people took on authenticity. Now there's a couple people taking on empathy It's too exhausting. It's too hard. We just need to be compassionate.&quot; Well, I call bullshit, to be honest with. Because as someone whose studied empathy for different things. The deal with empathy is this, if you call &quot;Hey, it's me. Josh and I just had a really big argument, I don't know, I can't use this example because Here's the thing. As a social worker, I've heard stories about--and assault, the death of a child. I've heard everything you can imagine from I have a great capacity for empathy in those Not because I've had those experiences. That has nothing to do with having those experiences. It's the fact that I understand some of the can connect with it. I always give people, we'll give people a We're going to give you an empathy capacity Number one, have you ever felt grief? Yes. Loneliness? Anger? Yes. Joy? Resentment? Contempt? Okay, you pass. Because I can say to someone, &quot;No, I don't. I've never had that experience. But I can hear you and hold space for you, And I do know grief. And I do know sorrow. I do know longing for something that doesn't I do know those things.&quot; The danger... Let me just say this because this is where This is tricky. Yeah. Empathic failure is more likely to happen experience, because even if I've had the exact of my colleagues, that doesn't mean it was Empathy is about connecting with an emotion And conveying back, or understanding of that &quot;I feel that with you. I understand.&quot; It's not that I went through it, but I understand for it. Sympathy is, &quot;You know what, that never really I'm sad for you.&quot; It's feeling for someone, not with them. I can even, you know it's funny. You're... Obviously we're having a discussion right for us just a few words, but even listening can feel the difference. I can feel the difference just with those I also want to share something that you wrote helpful for our listeners, because sometimes to say the wrong thing to a friend or colleague. They just don't know, should they call, should And one of the things I underlined, that you You say, &quot;I don't even know what to say right Something so simple. Something so easy to communicate. I just wanted to thank you for even giving people, I know I've experienced this in my you can freeze up because you don't want to Perfectionism rising its head again. I just wanted to share that because people Dare to Lead is filled with all of these incredible all of us can use. I do want to ask you this, and I want to acknowledge book, Brene. That you still, after 20 years of doing this tools, that you take notes. You have notes about the things that you'd you want to do it. It's something I do, too, especially when If I have to let someone go, or it's just that's not going to be comfortable. You still do that, too? I always take notes. I always take notes, I role play a lot, and I have to have a really hard conversation.&quot; Let's just say, I have to have a really hard with, whose deliverables are, over the last And would you be willing to play me in this I have to talk to, because I'm gonna come I'm going to come at you with everything I'm So good. So good. Marie will say, &quot;Sure, what do you want me And then... Let's just do it, Marie. Yeah. I want you to say, &quot;Over the last month, there's And we need to rumble on what's happening.&quot; Okay. Over the last month, there has been a decline need to rumble on this. Your team is so hard to work with. And you're never around. What do you expect? That is interesting information. I want to take that, we should talk about More about what you mean that they're not ground here to get it to where you feel it's we get the quality that we need. Okay. Fucking nailed it. Oh, did I? Shit. You totally nailed it. No, you totally nailed it because I can give is, when you have to lean into vulnerability, we have to take off the armor and that's scary What do we use if we don't have the armor? And curiosity is the leaders tool. Stay curious. You just stayed curious. I want to hear more about that, give me some What does that never around look like? What does... Tell me, you say my team is hard to work with, Tell me what that looks like specifically? That is how you stay in the hard conversation. Get curious. If I, literally you and I work together and back ... I have goose bumps right now, literally, Okay. Got it. If they come at me about how shitty we are, open and get curious. Stay open, get curious. This is the way we work, every day in our conversations. It just works. I don't know what to tell you. It just works. Yes, it does just work. When, for me, our team, again, even in my it's miraculous what happens to our connections, another. It really does all come back to vulnerability. Let's go into that more, for a moment. You share in the book that vulnerability is to show up when you can't control the outcomes. And I happen to know this about my listeners, our work, we tend to share some DNA. The desire to control outcomes, right? Yeah. That's something that a lot of us can relate How can we... Tell us more about vulnerability. And I want to move on to, also, and take this making the distinction between vulnerability, Discerning what's appropriate and healthy, Okay. Great question. Let me tell you, here's... One big idea coming from the book that surprised the way, it's our armor. Another big idea that I think came from the It's a collection of four skill sets that We can learn to be braver. We can teach others to do it. We've done it in now 50 organizations, with You can learn to be brave, and braver. When we looked into what are these skill sets? What does courage look like? What is... How does it show up? What we realized is, out of the four skill The capacity to rumble with vulnerability. Vulnerability is the emotion that we experience exposed. When we put up that honest blog post, when just modeled. When we have to ask for feedback, when we When we have to give feedback. When things are messy in the middle, and we staying in the uncertainty. Your capacity for courage, our capacity for than our capacity and ability to rumble with Who are you when you're awash in that emotion I'll give y'all an indicator. It's four skill sets, half the book is the Vulnerability is... Let's go back to the role play that you just Again, I promise y'all we didn't actually like a mother. Do you, if you are working with a partner, you has just, you feel like has just gone And you have to have that hard conversation. A daring leader talks to those people directly. Armored leader, talks about those people to That's not brave. Vulnerability is that phone call. Having to pick up the phone, or get on Skype, and say, &quot;Somethings not working.&quot; That's a moment of vulnerability. People always, I just did an interview for you want to be a daring leader, how much personal And I'm like, when I get asked that question, about. Because I have interview daring leaders who but they disclose very little personally. And then I've worked with leaders who disclose Yes. It's not about how much you share, it's about Can you embrace the suck? For me, you mentioned having to let somebody Yes. How many of you listening have stayed in a way too long because you're afraid of the It's something, Brene, that we've learned When we discover that someone is not the right because we feel like it is the most loving For sure. And it's never easy. I know the last time that I did it, it was There were tears, and it really took everything and to hear and to listen, and to let this and the truth was, for me, that I wanted them It was, became clear that we weren't the right to their fullest potential. There wasn't that match. Even though it was difficult, it was like, their gifts and to have them fly in an environment I want to talk about rumble starters, and to Rise section. Yep. The one on page 172 that you said, &quot;By far, free world.&quot; You said, &quot;It's changed every facet of your What is it, and how can it help us stay on By the way, before you answer that, I made I feel like, you know how my book is Everything Yeah. When you were talking about courage, I was I wrote it down on my little note pad, because Anyone listening, courage is figureoutable. Brene has the steps. She has the skills. She has what you can practice, and it's all Okay, back to rumble starters. It is so figureoutable. I have thought about you so many times. Sometimes my team will say to me, &quot;You know? Your problem and your gift is you believe And I'm like, &quot;I just, Marie Forleo'ed your Yes.&quot; I think it is. I was just reading Neil Degrasse Tyson's, He has this great quote that I highlighted. I'm like, &quot;Oh, that's going in my book.&quot; He's like, &quot;We are a part of the universe.&quot; I'm going to mangle this quote, you guys, Because I haven't memorized it yet. It's like, &quot;We are a part of the universe, figure it all out.&quot; I was like, &quot;Yes.&quot; I'm with you, Brene. That gave me goosebumps. Yes. Even if people think, even if they do think I will retain my position as an optimist, like courage and bravery, that we can figure That we can dig in and do the work, and become Okay, on to rumble starters. Okay. The number one rumble starters... If you just came into our office as a fly it, I bet, 10 times a day. And it's, the story I'm making up. Because when hard things happen, neurobiologically, job is to protect us. It senses that we're anxious or fearful, or The brain's like, &quot;Give me a story. Help me understand what's going on so I can Who are the bad guys here? Who are the good guys?&quot; Let me tell you, we make up this story. How many of you have ever gotten conflict Or at home? Or with a parent or a partner? And walked out of the room with this entire Here's the thing. You make up a story with bad guys and good get you,&quot; place, the brain loves a story with In fact, if you give it a really good one, The brain is not interested in an, &quot;I'm not Something felt off, I could have had a part.&quot; The brain's like, &quot;That's a bullshit story. Who's the enemy?&quot; And the more we give that, the brain what Men and women with the highest levels of resilience, use this sentence, &quot;The story I'm telling I probably have done this, I bet... It's 11 o'clock here, I bet I've already done We're launching a new Dare to Lead hub, along This morning I was looking at something, and This is still not changed. And we've talked about it three or four times. I'm starting to make up either someone on it, we need to have a conversation about it. Or, it's just not the same priority for you Yes. And we have these conversations all the time. So, Murdock, my manager, he's "What's "I just want to check in, I'm making up Or, &quot;I'm making it that you're pissed off "No, I'm not pissed off at all. My foot fell asleep and I'm grumpy." Just that story. Help me understand, the story I make up is it was the fastest way to get out of it, not And then someone might come back and say, I sat this for two days trying to figure it This was my idea, because I thought it was It's such an open-hearted, honest, vulnerable hard. And let me be brave and upfront about the I love it. I'm so excited to use this. I'm going to use it, I can promise you. Our team is going to adopt this. It's brilliant. Josh, and I actually do this quite a bit. And it really works magic. Again, I feel like so much of what we do in to the workplace. I'm curious about the time that we're in right Which is obviously challenging, externally What about your experience being a brave leader? This is a question that we get a lot, Brene. I know this has happened for you, it's actually want to kind of shout me down, tell me to You're only supposed to motivate me, you're little array of topics, and should I express all hell fucking breaks loose, right? I'm curious if you have anything to share, my goodness, Marie, thank you for saying something. You actually just gave me courage to say something. How does the fear of public shaming play in to be more brave and open-hearted as a leader? I am still in recovery mode from... I posted a picture of Anita Hill and Professor and this is what vulnerability looks like.&quot; And thousands of people unfollowed. It was my most circulated, shared and liked So, that just points to the absolute divisiveness. It's a war zone. Yeah. I want to keep talking about this. I want to say two things. One, is one of the other key things that I points to how painful this can be. You'll have the science better than I will, how getting emotionally attacked, and how Oh, yeah. Our brain, literally, we feel social pain Same part of the brain, same part of everything. It is real. I have to say, before I usually go out with a conversation, my husband. Because it affects me. It doesn't affect me, to be honest with you, I have to be really honest. My job is to be myself. I don't owe you anything. Follow me, don't follow me, it doesn't matter Because if a condition of you following me following the wrong person. That's right. But, the shout outs, just the--not the What hurt me, I think, the most with how many columnist. Your work has changed my life. Why are you weighing into politics?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Did you read my books? How did I change your life without you seeing Yes. I'm so happy we're talking about this because Dr. Ford. Just saying, &quot;I believe you.&quot; Because that is the truth. That's how I felt. And similarly, first of all, I think it's I actually did not talk with Josh before I when I was buying shoes. I don't shop very often. But Josh was working on a role, and I needed So, I was like, &quot;You know what? I'm going to go shoe shopping, because I'm That's when everything kind of went down. And I was like, &quot;Wow.&quot; Similarly, people were like, &quot;That's it. I'm unfollowing you.&quot; I'm like, &quot;How did you not know who I... How did you've been following me and not really It's fascinating. I know that this conversation is going to Because a lot of folks, frankly, they don't side of it very often. So, I just want to thank you for being transparent, And I also-- The reason I have to talk to Steve about it to not go under is tremendous. I've been sick. I'm just now getting over being sick for like They thought that I had mono, then strep throat, But I just felt like just terrible. And I'm not a good sick person. So, all this on top of it. It's not that I go under. It's like when I drive on the freeway. It's like if I keep going straight on 59, headed a different way, no one's lean out you anymore.&quot; They're just turning off. Good. I don't need the announcement that you're Unfollow me. That's not what takes the bandwidth. Sometimes I think these posts are great filters. What takes the bandwidth for me is my grief that people use my work to be brave and speak the same, and it's almost all women. That's what makes me sick. Because let me tell you, for sure. I think I actually don't read comments anymore, the family separation stuff at the border. Yes. And people saying, &quot;They deserve it. They brought their kids. They knew the risks.&quot; Finally, I just said, &quot;Look, here's the thing,"--this work that I do, and that I have done for 30 faced with a situation where you have to escape But if you do, and they're taken away from are me on my social media, I will be there I'll be pissed, but I will be there. So, don't suck what you need out of my work, and then be pissed off when I'm myself.&quot; Amen. Miss Brene Brown. I'm just going to clap. I'm by myself in my studio, but I am clapping. I know there are a lot of people listening I ran into some guy in Adorama. He's like, &quot;What's your podcast?&quot; And I told him. So, I hope hey, Mr. Dude from Adorama, you're Brene, I love you. Okay. Only two more question before we wrap up. As a CEO and founder, how has this research Every day. It's changed everything. It's changed... I think one of the two findings that I write book like a playbook. We even have a downloadable glossary and key and hacks in the book. But two of the things that changed that I'm One is that you must care for and be connected That is an irreducible need. This idea from the old command and control you, I don't have to respect you, I don't to lead you and be fair, that's bullshit. You have to care for and be connected with And so, one on one time with everyone. because the people I lead are all the senior I have to and I want to be connected heart The second thing that was really... God, if you don't hear anything but this, We must invest a reasonable amount of time or squander an unreasonable amount of time [c]People don't want to talk about fear and But when there's massive change and churn time, even if we're just busy as hell, to Let me check in with you. And then one of my favorite lines, and you does support look like right now? What does support look like right now? Yeah. Not, hey, can I help you? I've got a friend who's got a very sick parent. That whole, &quot;If there's anything I can do, No one is going to come back and say, &quot;There Very few of us are going to do that. But if you say, &quot;Hey, what does support look And I actually texted her that and she just Just stay open for the rants and screams and grief and pain right now. I'm like, &quot;I'm here, text, in person, whatever Genius. What does support look like right now? Even if we're letting someone go, we will We try to do what, we write about in the book. We try to do it with dignity. Can we let them resign instead of being fired? What's the maximum financial thing that we for us to make sure they have some lead time And then even ask, &quot;What does support look Would you like to come back and say goodbye What does support look like? It also gives other people the responsibility asking and then being resentful because they Yes, genius. I'm taking notes, mama. I'm taking notes. I got all my notes in the book, and I'm still Tell us about the other incredible things people know. Oh, yeah, I'm so excited about this part. We have built a Dare to Lead hub on brenebrown.com assessment, you can email yourself or print We're starting a global read-along of the So, you can go to my LinkedIn page, and we're Thanksgiving, I think November 19th. We're going to take your questions and I'm There's also a way to learn about our daring Just a bunch of different ways to engage with So, check it out at brenebrown.com and just Yay. I can't wait. I'm going to be there. I want to follow along with all of this. I love this book so much. It's so great that you're giving people other I think one of the challenges, and thank you, these great ideas. Because you spend so much time writing a book, &quot;Oh, well, that was a great idea.&quot; We want them to build skills and really use life. So, thank you for creating these incredible Everyone listening, make sure you go brenebrown.com, You'll get all the information for the hub, It's going to be incredible. [d]As we wrap, well, first of all, I want I said this in our last interview, and I will My friend, you truly are a national treasure. I feel that with every cell in my body. I adore you so much. I'm wondering, one of the things that--a is your ending to your books. I always get goosebumps at the end to your So, I'm curious if you would be willing to wrap up this conversation. I would love to, and thank you so much. Thank you for being so brave with your life, It matters, and it matters to a lot of people I know you up close, and it matters to me Because courage is contagious. Yes, it is, mama. And it's figureoutable. And it's figureoutable. Okay. Last paragraph of the book. As you think about your own path to daring The cave you fear to enter holds the treasure Own the fear, find the cave, and write a new meant to serve and support, and for your culture. Choose courage over comfort, choose whole being brave and afraid, at the exact same Yes, I love it so much. I love you. Congratulations on this book. For everyone listening, go get multiple copies You will not want to put it down. You will want to have everyone that you love, this book because it is filled with actionable things that we need as humans to be our bravest Brene Brown, you are a gem. Thank you so very much. And for everyone listening, thanks for being Thank you, Marie. Now, Brene and I would love to hear from We talked about a lot of different things And I'm curious, what is the insight that can you put that insight into action starting Now the best conversations happen after--even on over there and leave a comment now. While you're there, be sure to sign up for You'll get instant access to an audio I created Plus, you'll get some exclusive content, special frankly, I don't share anywhere else. So, stay on your game and keep going for your special gift that only you have. Thank you so much for listening today. I'll catch you next time on the Marie Forleo