Good Evening, Dungeon Masters. I'm Baron de GenCon's Ennie awards for Best Game, Best Rules, is abuzz with Shadowdark goodness on the internet. players as well as the most prestigious THE PITCH has been designed to make the way old school as approachable as possible to the contemporary is burned out on four hour long combat sessions halflings roll a d6 to hide in shadows but thieves your answer. The rules are presented in their most words, and no single rules topic spans more than know to get started can be consumed in less than right into character creation. Roll 3d6 down the like the elf's bonus to archery and spellcasting and then pick a character class. As an example know about the fighter class is on a single page, still fits on a tidy two pages with room for an in Shadowdark, and the game instead uses a roll it must make a spellcasting check to successfully can attempt to cast that spell again at a later the spellcaster loses the ability to cast it Critical spellcasting failures will result in a up in the characters face, or worse. Further, all straightforward, with most descriptions ringing on the spell Polymorph for a second because it's but still has room for artwork in the column the spell description for 5th edition's Burning everything you need to know to play the game, like under 10 minutes. Each page's heading is directly with absolutely no page flipping required to complicated concepts, like combat, for example, 500 words. Moving on to the Game Master's section straightforward, extremely actionable advice run smoothly, but are near Taoist poems of gaming about any other RPG as well. To take a moment Shadowdark stand out from just about any other RPG consumable resource. These light mechanics are characters can see in the dark, but all of the a Torch Timer. Whenever the players light a torch, the timer goes out, the torch goes out. So when about what to do with the hobgoblins in the it's usually about the time when their torch hobgoblins to come barreling through the door, and the dungeon mastering section has expanded advice like tying torch-threatening events, such as a and guides for having monsters specifically the rest of the book, the text offers actionable order to develop anything you could need for your and settlement maps, inspiration for taverns have just the right amount of narrative tooth. giant beetles on these random encounter tables. terrain type you could think of. The options just literally spoiled for choice. Likewise, there to generate, on the fly, a brand new monster your of dice rolls. This tool is really good for they should have prepared for their college exams. the book also provides digestible monster stat monster you could think of. In the last chapter of that are just as narratively toothy as those if you have ever been frustrated with the gemstones and a descriptionless painting worth 600 Results for valuable mundane treasure include traced with gold runes" or a "Hand drawn bestiary there. This chapter also provides inspirational as well as design your own magic items. These and curses, magic powers, and visual hooks that just a few dice rolls. Despite all this, however, some inspired from traditional D&amp;D standbys, like as well as a ton of new items that are fresh takes Kytherian Mechanism, inspired by one of the first history, the Antikythera Device. This magic item before it magically disassembles itself and everything you need to run and develop your 325 pages. However, with all this said, you book has everything you need to develop doing all that work still takes quite a bit of character classes for your players to choose from. in. At the time of this video's release, are equal parts player supplement and campaign published by TSR throughout the eighties. Each complete with random encounter tables and keyed and additional content for your players, like adventuring area, new spells the character classes as well as mechanics that reinforce the narrative are going to get just one zine, I would strongly Diablerie. The adventure is a van Helsing slash "Knight of St. Ydris", black paladin type class, players to choose from. Next, Red Sands features classes like the never-quite-dead pit fighter, as however, my favorite class in the game comes nordic seafaring adventure. My favorite class, the communes with the Norse gods, and sees visions if you want to pick up your own copy of the description below, and don't forget to pick up if you just want to try it before you buy it, GAME JAM a copy of the rules and are ready to start then you should check out my 2024 Weird August 10th and ending August 31st. To sign up, itch.io. You'll be assigned three randomly fantasy fiction series called Weird Tales and or just vibes, as inspiration for your own a free copy of the Shadowdark Core rules or all card. And, I look forward to seeing everyone's like to help me make more content like this in the or becoming a channel member. Thanks for watching