July 1944. The British Secret Services set their plan A British sniper and must infiltrate with orders to kill him when security is minimal. However, Winston Churchill hesitates Should he kill a bloodthirsty madman Finally, the operation is abandoned. In July 1944, the British Secret Services Hitler has become their best ally During the Second World War, Hitler and lost many battles. I'd say that Hitler In 1940, Hitler allowed The decision to bomb civilians rather than strategic military was a huge mistake. A mistake during the Allied landings. In 1942, in yet another bad decision Hitler sent his troops The German Armies aren't equipped and the poor men are freezing. Hitler loses almost a million soldiers in what will be the real Hitler lost the war in the East. In 1944, he launches His generals It was an attack The only one Hitler used up the last of his troops and opened up Germany's doors On May 10th, 1940, Hitler launches When Hitler ends his strange war by giving the order to simultaneously Belgium, and France, the shock wave shakes the entire world. On the 10th of May 1940, First, the Germans attack From 7:00 am, the French with the unrealistic By doing this, they fell into a trap was to strike in the center at the intersection of the Maginot Line. These troops were sent to Belgium with an incredible who were striking the 9th French Army An attack in Belgium with the aim followed by a main push in the center That was the plan which the Wehrmacht From the 13th to the 28th of May, the Germans surge forward The whole In five days, they travel between 80 and 95 km, when compared to what happened in 1918. Of course, they trap off the French and British Forces The trap closes on 500,000 French and British soldiers Cornered on the beaches of the North Sea, and faced with German Forces the Allies can only wait That's when the unthinkable happens. Going against some of his generals, It's clearly a mistake. The British soldiers They have nothing to hope for That would be risky, They can surround and capture leaving the British There's a very violent dispute with the head of the land forces, who wants to attack Dunkirk without delay. The quarrel is very violent He shows his generals that he's in charge. A leader needs to mark his territory, and he's in charge Hitler was afraid that it was a trap. His troops are going faster, He's afraid that the supplies stay behind, and his troops are defenseless. Hitler's Haltbefehel in Dunkirk telling them to stop Which gave the British enough time the Operation Dynamo evacuation, which was an incredible achievement Taking advantage the British military It was a real gamble the daine of its expeditionary troops Operation Dynamo was carried out The weather had deteriorated because the intelligence that the Germans To ensure their rescue, There was no port, they couldn't bring so they had to bring It was an operation that ended up There were military boats, private yachts, The Royal Navy, and also yachtsmen from the coast, everybody gave a hand As soon as these British ships they had to face the firepower the formidable bombers of the Luftwaffe. During the whole operation, tracks them tirelessly Over this merciless hunt, several dozen A violent battle takes place in the air between the German Luftwaffe which had nevertheless taken but whose fighter planes are still, During this last-ditch evacuation, all the available air forces These are serious times, and the very survival They have to save the troops, and the British are well aware of it, Half victory or semi-failure. Certainly, but at the cost who were sacrificed These are sent into captivity Worse still, the British Army is unarmed. In its haste, on the French beaches. This loss, is a disaster for the British, while at the same time its French ally has surrendered. On the Champs-Elysees, In Rotonde, Hitler lets his joy show Continental Europe On the other side of the channel, the British enemy Against all expectations, He tries to make a deal. Effectively, there is some hesitation. He has cherished Hitler considers the British so there is definitely He considers the Anglo-Saxons In his mind, he wants to sign so he doesn't have to fight on two fronts. The one in the west would be stopped It might have worked the Prime Minister but Winston Churchill. By choosing Churchill, King George VI There was in fact a serious contender to the post of Prime Minister, who was more of a pacifist, who might actually have engaged Except King George VI called on Churchill, He was 65 years old Churchill had the experience he fought so he was very strong-minded. When Churchill arrives, in his first I have nothing to offer I have nothing to offer We shall fight on the beaches. We shall fight on the beaches. We shall fight on the landing grounds. We shall fight in the fields He ends his speech with, we shall never surrender. We will never surrender. Churchill, who has this drive at the same time He puts together a fake cabinet The best lies and Hitler wants to believe Churchill puts together who are going to discuss Playing for time is crucial, by some of the British, when in fact it's all completely fake. When Hitler realizes that negotiations the main objective becomes landing which is how the Battle of England arose. From the many invasion plans Goering's is the one chosen by Hitler. For reasons of prestige and internal Goering wants to push the air force. He promises Hitler that the Luftwaffe will deliver him Goering said, &quot;My Fuhrer, no problem, They've lost a thousand planes, Hitler knows nothing Since nobody else It was a huge strategic error, he strengthens Churchill's position. He sets the whole of Great Britain July 1940, Hitler and his military The Sea Lion Plan In order to achieve dominance in the air, the entire German Air Force is mobilized. A thousand fighter jets Goering's first strategy from England The ports and navy convoys There are several phases The first is a fight The Germans decide to bomb mostly ports to try to block supplies They sink colliers, they sink speedboats, The second phase so the organization of air defense responsible That's the crucial period and destroy They try to make an aerial corridor to reach the whole of this area. The main idea with the idea that if the British are on one hand and on the other airforce or practically nothing, When the Battle of Britain begins, the British Air Force only has 850 planes vastly inferior However, combined with the great made them a formidable opponent. In one month, In addition, in this battle, England There's the top secret and highly celebrated radar to predict the waves At that the time A patriotic organization, Everybody took part, men and women climbed onto roofs Planes heard three miles southwest. They have people watching that lets them As soon as the German squadrons take off, what they're made up of, and who they are. Because everything is centralized give the order for the such This means that every time and their strategy The war effort is entirely In the first phase they bring down However, they also have worrying losses. More than 300 fighter planes On the eve of the 7th of September, 1940, the British Forces Little by little, are affecting the infrastructure and the Fighter Command begins to yield. A number of bases because they are considered having suffered considerable damage. At the end of August, it's safe to say that British Air Defence which is to say than the speed It's very close. If Hitler had continued this strategy two Except he changes his mind and decides How can Hitler's at the very moment On August 24th, an important event On August 24th, German bombers Churchill immediately It was symbolic, not even, several hundred kilos of bombs. However, Goering had said something. If ever an enemy bomb falls on Berlin, Now there's a bomb falling on Berlin. Imagine a Germany and on the 24th of August, Hitler flies off the handle, They're bombing our cities? They change targets, and put pressure Day and night, receive the order to crush civil targets. London and large cities in the south Hitler reacted in an emotional way by focusing on British cities, instead of focusing That day when Hitler threw a fit of anger was written down by Sir Hugh Dowding the head of the fighter command, He said &quot;I fell to the ground because during this time there would certainly but the industry work could be finished. By moving away Hitler offers an unexpected respite Factories are starting to operate and aircraft Rearmament is in progress. The decision to bomb civil targets instead of strategic military is a huge mistake. When you target a population, they become united together It's a major strategic Subjected to constant bombing, everyone in London is mobilized Some search the debris Others fight fires and at the slightest alarm, to rush to the shelters. When the attacks intensify, Londoners They remain calm During this period, however, as a result of the German bombs. When the bombings hope is truly reborn. It's proof that the Luftwaffe The Royal Air Force, has found its efficacy once again. Goering had developed That's to say an air force capable and not one that is capable of destroying The wings of the German Air Force, They take off from the land The jet planes that escort them, have barely ten minutes of fighting. When they fight, they are going at full speed Very often, if the escort they don't have enough autonomy to protect These fighter planes to leave the bombers alone above London That's where they lose The defeats in the air Goering has overestimated The British planes are hugely successful More than 1,850 bombers during the Battle of Britain. One thing is clear, When a British plane is hit, if the pilot isn't killed, falls on English soil One hour later, he's back at base, given another plane A German pilot who manages to get out and is lost to Germany The Germans lost a lot of navigators. Crews that would be cruelly During the Battle of Britain, Hitler also made the mistake in his Air Force's technological advances In this war of the waves, the fighter command of the British anti-aircraft defense, The British experts The German nighttime bombings The Germans had automatic with radio systems Simply put, the bombers when he cuts the first one, there's a beep and he knows that On the second one, he pushes the button, The British found out so that it beeped before and after, The German bombers The British reinforced their city defences with airstrips equipped with iron ropes that could cut off the wings of a plane I'd say from the German side rather than admit that it was a failure. In London, the population is relieved. In Berlin, even if he refuses to admit it, It's hard to know when he realized that he wouldn't be able What is certain is that from the end he turned his gaze towards the east The main goal of Hitler's war is a racial and ideological war against the Jews, and against Bolshevism. Its main objective is to conquer the East. He warned those close to him, that he foresaw an attack They tried to calm him down, He knows that the Red Army Their equipment is not up to the task, There is a window of opportunity We must finish with these inferiors We must conquer. In order to attack Russia, To avoid winter it is better They planned to attack the USSR in March and April 1941. It turns out without discussing it with Hitler, Hitler is furious but he's obligated for his image and because the Italian Army The Greek army defends itself very well. On the border between Greece and Albania, 16 badly equipped Greek divisions Italy's supposed power Hitler frees his forces to help and then at the same time which is on the British side at the time On the 6th of April 1941, the Luftwaffe bombed Belgrade. Yugoslavia surrenders ten days later. Greece, the great culprit is Mussolini, why did he need to go up against Greece? As for Yugoslavia, and again it's a mark He said, &quot;We must punish them.&quot; Despite the delay, Hitler once again improvises and decides to put the Soviet Empire In his mind, They must be destroyed by succeeding The goal is still the same, so by the end of 41, it's wrapped up, then go back That's Hitler's general plan Of course when his generals discover there is also dismay The territories There were two things Firstly the distance because even if the Red Army they have a lot of people and that, with time, will be important. On June the 22nd 1941, is finally set in motion Hitler gave the order to invade Russia. When Hitler it's a great blow to Stalin's morale. He locked himself in his office His generals had no news of him. Stalin is completely stunned, would be crazy enough on a territory that is so large. Stalin can't believe it. Barbarossa mobilizes 4,000 tanks It's the biggest Fighting on three fronts, the divisions advance in the center towards Moscow, At the start of the invasion, the advance The first reason is simply the Blitzkrieg works for the last time, The Germans are very good Faced with this blitz, the Red Army especially as it is defending itself Stalin had a purge in 37, 38, eliminating thousands so the leaders in the Red Army Stalin gave very firm instructions so instead the troops and huge numbers These are whole armies who surrendered and in total, during the first six months The Red Army Stalin refused to sign international &quot;For me, a soldier in the Red Army &quot;If he's taken prisoner,&quot; &quot;he's a traitor, These poor Russian soldiers go into German prison camps where they are treated very badly. They are treated as slave labor and 30 percent of them The conditions are approaching and extermination camps. Similarly, German soldiers were treated just as badly. In German cinemas the civilian population is impressed In October 1941, Kiev is conquered, and Moscow is The Germans Until then, the Germans had been fighting over short distances and are confronted The lines of communication and supplies and it is not on the kind of roads The German refueling They were a modern, mechanized army, to an army That's what happened they went backward Over 70% is still horse-drawn and horses You can bring petrol by pipeline, that advance along with the troops, The orders are clear. The soldiers will feed themselves there was literally pillaging of villages Belarus, and Baltics. The soldiers are fed In light of this, the Russians retreat and systematically apply No urban areas are spared. All of the houses Nothing is saved. Infrastructures are destroyed. Every bridge The invaders advance The German troops, difficulty progressing is compounded by a climatic event In October, in the Western Soviet Union, that turn the roads and paths There are torrential rains so the army is stuck As soon as it rains, the roads become... In fact, they are no longer Moving becomes very difficult, very slow and it's something The horses are up to their chests The trucks and tanks are stuck as well. The problem is that beginning of November, The trucks that were in a meter It was during this period that the Germans Since the beginning they had lost half of their initial forces Inevitably, the war machine seizing up became so concerning that General Rundstedt Von Rundstedt, like many generals from the ground, and captains who say Companies that had 200 men Out of a theoretical 50 or 100 tanks, From November 41, the German Army and legend has it that some of the troops could already see About 50km from the Kremlin, the objectives This delay is the reason will be stuck facing Moscow, Stalin's biggest aid, despite the Americans is the Russian winter. General Winter comes to Stalin's rescue The soldiers with their summer equipment and when the temperatures drop The German Armies They can't do everything, Maybe there are a few SS divisions but these soldiers aren't equipped, The fuel freezes, you hold your gun on the frozen steel, etc. Their tanks are frozen on the spot, the soldiers freeze to death. Everything stops. The German army for Hitler's delay It was a badly supplied, who were fighting against the Russians to defend Moscow and the motherland. Given the urgency, with patriotic speeches. We must repel the enemy at all costs. The date of the counterattack It will be headed by a strategist Zhukov is probably one in the Red Army. He began his career it is said that he even beheaded He's a brilliant mind who trained and whose teacher was Captain Paulus Zhukov is Stalin's protege He's not going to lose his nerve or, like some Soviet generals, lead attacks to hide their incompetence On the 5th of December 1941, It's Zhukov who takes the offensive, a counter-attack that is well carried out They are obliged to retreat Hitler gives the order to stop It's often civilians who pay the price. They are chased out in the snow. Terrible battles take place because the battle will decide outside nothing like modern warfare. At the end of December 1941, the German Front In December 41, Hitler is forced to conquer Russia has failed, and instead of taking responsibility he puts it on the three marshals, who commanded The north, the center, and the south. These officers are then dismissed and therefore leave the battlefield. After the Battle of Moscow, von Rundstedt Hitler is then forced to have He can't take the criticism of some He brings in some ambitious youngsters The head of the German armed forces At the time there is a play of words, calling him Lakeitel, which gives an idea who absolutely do not dare to contradict This extreme concentration of power There is just one man In December 1941, while the situation on the Eastern front Hitler makes one of the most On the 7th of December 1941, 353 Japanese aircraft in the direction of Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941, Admiral Yamamoto, attacks Pearl Habour. This is not the United States it's actually Japan bombing Pearl Harbor and a state of war I ask that the Congress declare a state of war has existed between the United States Two days later, Hitler, suppodedly declared war on the United States. The treaty with Japan was only to provide but that was Japan Hitler didn't need to declare Germany, Italy and Japan That has been imposed on them by the US and the British, The German general criticize this decision They are dismayed by this decision I think decision is driven of the United States from Hitler. He has never set foot he doesn't have a grasp He certainly The US military in 1940 Hitler tells himself that 140,000 men Serious mistake. The US military It puts in place a massive industrial 50,000 tank operators were produced thousands of planes. At the end of the conflict, In four years, they go By underestimating Hitler definitely compromises What we see from Hitler's declaration which is a personal decision is the exterme concentration within the Third Reich, especially in military matters, He's not a strategist, who is stuffed with amphetamines and drugs This is a man who has fits, who is completely paranoid he's directing the German Army that is at a somewhat He lost a lot of men, it is estimated that during the campaign He no longer His strategic possibilities Disagreeing with his generals who want to retreat Hitler wants to attack again and again. However, on the Front, the balance of power has clearly changed. The troops of the Reich of assault by the Soviet Army. Zhukov sends millions of men In early 1942, Hitler, who from that point prepared to make Between July 42 and February 43, turn out to be catastrophic. It would have been better and not to have the German Army enter, At the same time, from their North African Army The axis powers lose as many, if not more, troops at Stalingrad Germany withdrawing on all fronts has to face the consequences In June 44, the Normandy landings begin. Hitler doesn't register that will bring about June 6, 1944, incredibly, and was not to be woken. Von Rundstedt, the commander, insists August 1944, part of the military staff to put a stop to the Fuhrer's Hitler is physically weakened He is a man who, in his head, He's exhausted physically and mentally, and no one dares to contradict him. December 1944, Hitler, sends his men That is as pointless as it is deadly. His generals It's a counter-attack Hitler's final lost battle. This catastrophic attack will bring about the fall