Introduction India is one of the most diverse in the world, groups. Among this diversity, the long-bearded as one of the most visually distinct pieces of the Sikhs are one of the most misunderstood and subject to anti-Islamic hate crimes by true identity of the Sikhs by diving into their emergence in the fertile river valleys of the the ten Gurus who transformed the Sikh people built on compassion and tempered by the sword. back then, if they'd needed ships, they'd well. Now it's time to see how you perform with a special bonus and new program to This game is the World of Warships experience, big screen. Take the ships that made history PvP battles, on tight maps designed for Master destroyers, the fragile but extremely but are slow to fire and move, cruisers, and aircraft carriers, contesting airspace and Now, until September eighth you'll be able for the restoration of the USS Texas. and now serves as a museum of naval keep this historic creation alive, maintain get you a load of stuff to use in World of There's also a free starter featuring the premium battleship Arkansas, and a load of powerful resources. Unlock link in the description, and we'll also Who Are the Sikhs? cultural groups native to the incredibly diverse their tall, colourful and majestic turbans, known called Sikhism, or Sikkhi, which distinguishes of people adhere to Hinduism or Islam. The which today is split between the Republic of India religions that have historically thrived emerging only around 500 years ago after Islam centuries and Hinduism for millennia. The Sikhs numbering around 25 million, a drop in the bucket Despite this, the Sikh diaspora is one of the Western world. Infact, the 800,000 Sikhs in country than their kin in India do, with Singh calling the play-by-play on the Hockey all you need to know about the Sikhs as a Sikh Faith &amp; Sikh Society let us first provide a brief summary of the Sikh like every other religion, the Sikh community is practices and political goals. However, it is not so we will instead present a streamlined view of the prominent Sikh author and politician was born out of wedlock between Hinduism for a period of nearly nine hundred years. But a personality of its own and in due course grew some to Islam, and yet had features which monotheistic faith that believes in one supreme omnipotent entity . The Sikhs' understanding of Hindu and Muslim schools of thought. While is fundamentally incompatible with the Hindu the Sikh view is that since God is universal, Therefore, Sikhs reason, both Hindus and Muslims the same universal entity. Thus, at its core, supremacy over other faiths but finding the Historically, the Sikhs were led by the ten cultivated the Sikh community for the first two with the religion's founder, Guru Nanak, each of their predecessor to shape the Sikh faith The lineage of mortal Gurus was ended by who transferred the spiritual leadership of the the Guru Granth Sahib. The Guru Granth Sahib is containing the combined wisdom of the the main object of Sikh worship, and is or Sikh temple. The Granth Sahib is considered the Sikh faith. To contextualize this for a Pope Francis declaring that upon his death, the Holy Bible itself will henceforth be The core message of the Granth Sahib is quite we use to divide ourselves, such as gender, age, that serve to block people from realizing the extension of its egalitarian worldview, Sikhism forms of religious expression. One of the most service,' is by volunteering in the langar. The Sikh Gurdwara that regularly serves free meals status. During these meals, all participants sit display that everyone is on the same level. democracies where the rhetoric of equal rights is the same and feed everyone regardless of class in Sikhism's birthplace of 15th century India, side with high-caste Brahmins was unthinkable one was born into would determine the course upend the status quo and break down barriers Traditionally, all initiated Sikhs must distinguish themselves from non-Sikhs. These Kanga, Kachera, Kara, and Kirpan. The first 'K,' the growing out and meticulous grooming of long Incidentally, the famous Sikh turban is not to bind and cover their flowing locks as a matter wooden comb and symbolically is an extension undergarment which represents sexual restraint. circular shape serves to remind its wearer of is a curved dagger tucked under the waistband, and protect the weak. The kirpan is indicative of for meekness. A fierce warrior people, the Sikhs oppression and learned that pacifism was a luxury composition by Guru Gobind Singh reads as follows: the rifle, and the arrow. The saif, the dagger, Background of Sikhism - Sufism and Bhakti Sikh faith, let us now step into the flow of time community. We will begin this adventure by looking at the time of Sikkhi's birth. In the 15th century Hinduism and Islam. The preeminent power in the an Islamic dynasty with roots among the over a majority Hindu population. During this to bridge the gap between the two religions: movement. The Sufis sought to make the Islamic order to secure local converts, while the Bhaktis who ignored the stringent Hindu caste system the Sufis and the Bhaktis were groups that bridged and no doubt had a heavy influence on the founder and Sufi literature can both be found in the world religion with a holy book that contains Guru Nanak - The Founder and the first Guru of the Sikh community was a Nanak was born in 1469 in the Punjabi town of the merchant caste. Nanak quickly become philosophy and language. After filing into where he took up a job as an accountant for a spiritual experience changed Nanak's life in the local river, he was suddenly swept beneath the water, he was given a cup of Amrit, Nanak was introduced to the universal reality of his friends and family were relieved, for they turned to perplexion when the first words out of is no Muslim. There is only God." Armed with a possessions and began traveling around to spread visiting places as far afield as Sri Lanka, his journeys concluded, he had accumulated a large formed a settled community in a place called away in 1539, survived by his followers, who The Gurus Build the Sikh Faith the passing of Guru Nanak, the Guruship of with each one building upon Nanak's legacy. Gurmukhi alphabet, which gave the Sikhs a written fostered their sense of being a separate people. several problematic Hindu rituals and social by recent converts from Hinduism in his flock. advocated for marriages across caste lines, and of widows on the funeral pyres of their husbands. city of Amritsar and laid the foundations the most important Gurdwara in the Sikh world As the small Sikh community developed throughout shadow of a new power. A native of what is now possessed of a conqueror's lineage, descended he followed in the footsteps of his Chinggisid Hindustan. Sweeping away the declining Delhi Babur established the Mughal Empire, which in the foremost global titans of the early modern age. state and their Sikh subjects was actually fairly Mughal Emperors held a generally tolerant attitude true of the worldly Emperor Akbar, who was said According to one story, Akbar once paid a visit out the red carpet for the Emperor, the Guru refusing to see the sovereign until he had Guru's pious integrity, Akbar happily agreed, and single most powerful men in the world ate side by The Militarization of Sikh Society and ascension of his son Jahangir to the Mughal of the state towards the Sikhs. In 1606, Emperor fifth Guru, Guru Arjan Dev by having him roasted debated. Mughal sources claim that Guru Arjan had Prince Khosro, who was in rebellion against his the Guru in his Gurdwara, Arjan did not endorse hospitality he would any other guest. Whatever the Guru Hargobind, who responded to his father's training up a private army known as the Akal Sena. one representing piri- spiritual authority, and Through this, the Guru asserted that could no longer merely be religious they had to take up the mantle of When Emperor Jahangir heard word of what and imprisoned, only to have him released capricious change of heart is unclear, but a sustainable understanding with his father's during a royal hunt, the Guru saved the Throughout the rest of Jahangir's reign, Hargobind leveraging his good relationship with the other shoe finally dropped when Jahangir passed troops into the Punjab to defang the troublesome Guru Hargobind bloodied the nose of the mighty A year later, he narrowly evaded capture by after being entrapped in the city. Despite the Gurus who followed him still partook in Mughal Mughal Emperors and open insurrection against Sikh Gurus leveraged their political and military disputes in attempts to put someone friendly to the early triumphs of Guru Hargobind, the Sikhs into a warrior society, ready and able to defend The Formation of the Guru Khalsa Panth a second great martyrdom when Guru Tegh was put to death during the reign of the Mughal the Guru met his end by interceding on behalf were being coerced by a local Mughal Governor himself ready, on their behalf, to offer his head jailed, then publicly beheaded in Delhi. The the tenth and last Guru: Gobind Singh. Like Guru to the execution of his father by leading the Guru Gobind Singh presided over a renewed era Between 1682 and 1699, he led the Sikh Akal forces of both local Mughal governors and local Guru Gobind Singh realized that in order for the religious identity and warrior zeal of the its Gurus who, as the fate of his predecessors In the spring of 1699, the last Guru put his plans drew his sword, and asked for a human sacrifice. the Guru's tent, and each time the Guru after these five ostensible beheadings, the with all five men, revealing that they were the Guru declared that these five fearless an elite warrior society within the Sikh community from this day forward. 80,000 more souls were whom were given new royal surnames regardless of meaning 'lion.' Later, as the tradition were given the surname Kaur, meaning 'princess.' rite of initiation into its ranks remains a core Conclusion - The Road to Empire Guru Gobind Singh led his natal Khalsa warrior against the forces of Emperor Aurangzeb. In 1707, between his two sons, Azam Shah and Bahadur more sympathetic to the Sikh plight, Gobind joining the Imperial Prince at the battle of he personally slew Azam Shah in battle. After Mughals bated. Unfortunately, this peace would ambushed by two assassins sent by a Mughal army but it was too late, for the Guru had suffered final Guru of the Sikkhi declared that the line the spiritual leadership of the Sikh people would of all the past Guru's wisdom. Moreover, the nation would pass on to the Khalsa warrior the Sikhs to victory in all the wars to come. the 18th century, as the Mughal Empire entered would fill the power vacuum, emerging for the In our next video on the Sikh people, we Empire. To make sure you don't miss that, consider liking, commenting, and sharing - releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals