If you're watching this video, you probably know that pi is the number of diameters it would Pi is a fairly straightforward number to You've also probably heard you may not be able to visualize it in the has a whole host of different descriptions used by enlightening. While these formulas may seem scary we can tie them together and show how they all This is Tally. She's a one-dimensional creature infinitely divisible matter. She has the curious matter in her body grows at a constant rate in the course of a full day. Since every piece collectively, her growth looks like this. To make it easier to differentiate between the course of the day, we'll recolor the This animation is a simplification of what her for one thing: we've only subdivided her body into But really, every piece of her body, no Also, for clarity, we'll collect all You might be questioning how this has anything to the effects of Tally's growth rule, you'll Our goal will be to find an expression for To understand Tally's growth, let's plot her creature like Tally, is just her height. Say at Over the course of the day, her initial red because every tiny piece of it duplicates. Here, and the orange represents the growth The white line plots her total height. So, we end of the day - 1 meter of initial height, and However, she will actually be taller than be duplicating itself throughout the day to For instance, between 2 and 3 am, Tally will have Tally's initial mass will have grown an additional But this 42 millimeters of mass is now a part of grows. Specifically, it also grows at a where if it were given a full 24 hour But there are only 21 hours left in will only grow about 37 millimeters of new The exact numbers here aren't important here, but what does matter is that all of Tally's So, you can see that Tally's growth is red mass contributes some amount of new orange orange mass accumulates some amount of new mass The total yellow mass will be less than a meter the beginning - it's only gradually accumulated. created, they'll begin growing some mass of Even though we started with a fairly under closer inspection we got a complicated But I want to reinforce the intuition that straightforward, and the color differences are how her initial mass grows to how her orange mass All that's happening is that her body grows at a linear rate so that it and of course this means that any pieces of In fact, it might even seem like this is Nevertheless, it's still a daunting When faced with a difficult problem, is to not focus on the whole problem at once, the simple parts may give insights on how We'll also want to identify the simplest units because Tally's growth is defined Hence, we've relabeled the horizontal axis the day that has passed, and the time box in the A very simple question we can ask is, how much orange mass has accumulated? In other responsible for? You may already know the answer. but has 1 meter of orange mass after 1 day her orange mass after x of the For instance, when 60% of the day has passed, Ok, simple enough, here's the next question. yellow mass has accumulated? Remember, the yellow Calculating this will be slightly more difficult, Orange mass that grows near the beginning of the the orange mass that grows just before time x because We can tackle this problem by breaking up the delta t, and calculate, approximately, the yellow Then, we'll sum everything up to get of yellow mass generated up until time x. To we'll see what happens as the time At time t, the amount of orange which is just t. To figure out the yellow mass t plus delta t, recall that the orange mass we already that it would double itself in a one day period. the orange mass we have only produces a delta t the amount of yellow mass generated is the amount or t times delta t. However, this is only an generated because the orange mass created between which we've ignored in our calculation. We'll Now, remember what we're trying to do. We're until x amount of the day has passed, and we in every small time interval. So, all that's left total. However, there's a much simpler way to look at the quantity t times delta t, which as we saw mass generated between time t and time t plus delta the area of this rectangle because it has height t yellow mass generated in each small time interval rectangles. Therefore, the sum of the rectangle But also, notice that the sum of these areas So it's plausible that the exact amount area under the orange graph, since the sum of To prove it, we'll investigate what happens as t decreases, the sum of the rectangle areas of yellow mass accumulated, because there's But, the sum of the rectangle to the area under the orange graph. Thus, and the area under the orange graph are both The total amount of yellow mass accumulated is If that explanation wasn't completely more about why the sum of rectangle areas of yellow mass generated. We've left some Using some basic geometry, we can This is simply the area of a right triangle Alternatively, for those of you that know with an integral - the integral from 0 to x representing the amount of yellow mass Now, we have a pretty good approximation of She has some amount of initial red orange of x, that was generated from the yellow of x, that was generated when bits of yellow mass are generated, they next task will be calculating the total green mass You may see where this is going. We'll take a very Break down the day into small time intervals of mass Tally has is yellow of t, which is a half t squared. This for a delta t fraction of the day until time yellow mass would double itself if given an entire a half t squared times delta t. This is also the area of graph of yellow of x. Summing up the areas of all value for the amount of green mass generated, we see that the green mass generated before time x Now, if you're not familiar with calculus, but for those of you who are, is the integral from 0 to x of Going forward, we can extend this pattern The green mass produces new mass throughout The amount of blue mass generated until time which is the integral from 0 to And when blue mass produces purple mass, the x is the integral from 0 to x of blue of t dt, or With all the work we've done combined, we After x amount of the day has passed, plus her orange mass, plus her yellow mass, plus x squared plus a sixth x cubed and so on, where each consecutive We can write this in a more compact form fraction is the factorial of the corresponding the exponent is 4, and the denominator is 24, how integration works - taking the integral of but then multiplies the denominator by 5, so exponent. So, Tally's height after x amount of using summation notation as the sum from Awesome! We got an exact expression for but this expression isn't exactly simple. It turns out though that we can look at to get a completely different, arguably simpler As before, let's attempt to calculate x, of the day has passed. This time, we'll so we won't get exactly the right One straightforward simplification we can make is x happens at time x, which simplifies things the growth that happens due to mass other than linear rate in such a way that her 1 meter of would accumulate x meters of mass at time x. Based x meters instantaneously come into existence at Now, you might be complaining that this is completely neglected any growth that occurs In other words, we're ignoring the yellow, green, blue, and so on mass she accumulates that Fair enough, what if instead of we break her growth up into two periods - we some more occur at time x. This would improve our of the yellow mass that grows from the orange Thus, at time x over 2, x over 2 meters of orange so her total height is now 1 plus x over 2 meters. both the red mass and orange mass grow But really, the color distinctions don't matter So instead of distinguishing between red and meters of height growing by an x over 2 fraction of rule, means she should gain an additional Thus, her height at time x is one plus x over two plus one plus x over two times x over two which is just one plus x over 2 squared. This estimate still isn't the greatest mass that grows between time 0 and time x over 4, and our calculation doesn't account for that. So what if we instead take her growth where we could pick n to be some very large estimate because the amount of time during Let's see this in action. Between time 0 and x over n meters. Thus, her height at time x over n is 1 plus x over n. so we multiply it by 1 plus x over n - the 1 keeps the it to account for the growth. So, her Now, this mass grows for another x over n fraction This means her height at time 3 x over n is one plus x over n cubed. Tally's height is one plus x over n to the k. So, when k equals n, However, even if we take n to is only an estimate of her height at time x, the times when we calculate her height whose To fix the problem, we would need to be breaking course, that doesn't make too much sense. Instead, approaches infinity - we'd expect the quantity of her true height. So her height at time x is Not bad! We now have two expressions for Tally's ways. At first glance, these equations look at Tally's growth from different perspectives. But if we use a calculator with x equals 1 in both formulas, you that have seen the number e before, you Indeed, this number is exactly e. In this context, But e is more than just a destination. It Tally's growth at any point during the day, so e Amazingly, Tally's height at any To see how, first realize that if at any point of time, her height gets multiplied by the same growing starting from time 0. We won't prove this you can try to prove it yourself using What this means is that if Tally's then her height at time t times height of delta t. We can use this fact Let's assume x is rational to start, which can break the interval into a time segments that her height at time 1 over b is height of 1 over b. Then, from time 1 over b to 2 over b, she grows for a 1 over b her height would be multiplied by height of 1 over b. This continues until time a over b, at which making her height height of 1 over b to the a. So all that's We can do this by using what we already know. breaking up the time interval from 0 to 1 into b before, her height at time k over b is height of one over b to the k, is height of 1 over b to the b. But we know her height at time or height of 1 over b equals e to the 1 over b. Hence, her height at time x is height of 1 over b to the a or e to the a over b which is just e to the x. However, we had to assume x was rational for this the same logic for irrational numbers is that e to the x when x is rational. However, it's still true that is e to the x. We've left some details on screen to guide The main takeaway is that Tally's growth rule is that she grows to, but rather a natural base for Now, if you knew anything about e before you're probably wondering about. Why is this is simply asking why the rate of change The reason is actually quite straightforward. of change of Tally's height at time x. Her know Tally's growth works, this e to the x bit of mass However, if we observe its growth say for a time interval of length delta by a delta x fraction of itself, which is Now, in this calculation, we haven't accounted for or the growth due to the growth Because delta x is such a small timestep, and any growth produced by To find the derivative of her height function, x and time x plus delta x, and divide by the length of delta x goes to zero gives her instantaneous Thus, the derivative of her which is exactly the statement At long last, we've recovered the three facts video. But, recovering those facts wasn't really solid intuition for where e comes from, and how We hope that you came away with the sense that the constant that it is, that perfectly describes the math in this video was only intuition, and it we've linked several resources in the description Thanks for coming along on this journey No. No, no.