Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of As always, we're sampling and around here, We're in Prague, Thanks for joining us. Prague, which escaped the bombs is one of Europe's Its nickname: &quot;the Golden City And beyond its striking facades, with a story to tell We'll explore Prague, filled with and slinky, with With music spilling And colorful pubs serving up it's a city thriving We'll take in the sights most evocative to Prague's in-love-with-life Buried in the center of Europe and its capital Prague, straddling is easy on foot, like Wenceslas Square, Charles Bridge, up in the castle all The 14th century the Holy Roman Emperor Back then, largest and most Until about 1800, Prague was four separate the Castle Town, the home of the Czech ruler. Below, that, the Little Town, to be close to the king. The Old Town, with its And the New Town, providing a stage tumultuous 20th century history. Prague's four gloomy decades feels like a distant memory, as the city is bursting with Everything, from the buildings, nicknamed Fred and Ginger -- to the vibrant crowds seem to celebrate Charles Bridge was commissioned by the Holy Roman Emperor It offers one of the most This bridge is part of route called the Processions ended above, where the king was crowned. Along the way, they the town center, crossing Today the most commercial is a shopping gauntlet lined with Prague's Like main drags this walk mesmerizes visitors. Use it as a spine, but make a point Prague is flourishing and vibrant markets. Today, as they have Prague's farmers markets keep both hungry locals Every time I come to Prague, heroically tries to teach me Can you teach me four Lida: Don't you remember them? After so many years. I'm completely beginning. Okay. You are my friend. -Yes. -&quot;Ahoj.&quot; &quot;Ahoj,&quot; okay. More formal. &quot;Dobry den, So &quot;dobry&quot; is good, &quot;Dobry den.&quot; Magic word: Please. &quot;Prosim.&quot; -&quot;Prosim.&quot; the &quot;m&quot; in the end, because the Czech is &quot;Prosim.&quot; &quot;Prosim. Prosim.&quot; -Very good. And another magic word: &quot;Dekuji.&quot; -&quot;Dekuji.&quot; &quot;De-ku-ji.&quot; -&quot;Dekuji.&quot; &quot;Dekuji.&quot; Thank you. Nice. Thank you, &quot;dekuji.&quot; Okay, so, &quot;dobry den, prosim, ahoj.&quot; -&quot;Ahoj.&quot; &quot;Ahoj!&quot; It's the same. -&quot;Ahoj,&quot; like &quot;hello.&quot; Hello, good-bye. It's either. Rick: I'll test my for the price of Okay, let's practice Yeah. Oh, look, Good. &quot;Dobry den.&quot; -&quot;Dobry den.&quot; How do you say &quot;plums&quot;? -&quot;Svestek.&quot; -&quot;Pet.&quot; &quot;Prosim?&quot; Lida: &quot;Prosim,&quot; yeah. And then &quot;dobro,&quot; &quot;Dobro.&quot; Good. -&quot;Dekuji.&quot; -&quot;Ahoj.&quot; These will be great, Prague's Old Town Square, once just another is now the heart of the city, the commerce is The fanciful gothic Tyn Church as if to remind tourists lots of religious history Back in the 15th century, when some Christians were beginning Roman Catholic dominance, this was Prague's leading Hussites were followers whose statue graces the square. He was a local preacher with the Vatican Martin Luther The chalice is a symbol of Hus who believed everyone, should be able to partake or Holy Communion. These days, the 15th century here on the Old Town Square. The dials everything you could It tells the phases of the moon, current sign of the Zodiac, each day's special saint, somehow, And of course, everything revolved At the top of the hour, and pulls the cord. The windows open as acknowledging The rooster crows... And finally, But my favorite part of the show Prague has long been Mozart loved the place. His opera &quot;Don Giovanni&quot; Antonin Dvorak lived And today, that enthusiasm Box offices around town theater, opera, jazz, Tickets are cheap, about half what Racks of fliers and with this wall of photos, you can choose There's chamber music We're enjoying It's Vivaldi in Enjoying Baroque music the music takes on Prague Castle, dominates the west side also known as the Moldau. It's a complex of encircled by mighty walls. For a thousand years, Even today, the Czech president The changing of the guard And for some entertaining a quartet called is playing just outside. Their forte? Songs that resonate I'm meeting another friend, who helps me guide tours Honza's joining us for a sweep through This piece just brings out Yeah, the song is very important It's &quot;The Moldau,&quot; So that's the river here. It's named after the river. It's like the blood and wherever you go you can just and it's like being back home. Rick: The castle complex is... with noble palaces, ancient churches, While you could easily spend the one essential stop The church is Gothic, but not finished Inside, the clean, and vast windows create a space full of light and uplifting. Visitors are and wowed by the beauty. A stunning Art Nouveau window in 1931 graces the nave. But the importance both religious and cultural, and sumptuously decorated This place feels very sacred. Honza: Yeah, has been the holiest place St. Wenceslas is buried here. So that's Wenceslas' tomb. Honza: Yeah. so the time when we had and Italian saints, to attain sainthood, and he's the patron and the kings have been for those 1,100 years, and they'd always be just lent who otherwise rules Rick: Just up the hill, overlooks the Prague Castle The monastery was As the Age of Enlightenment swept into Prague it brought with it for the study Cases highlight oddities and wonders of the day. Could this be a baby dodo bird? The monastery is most noted Libraries were It's hard to overestimate the importance of The halls are decorated celebrated philosophy, and the quest for knowledge, Knowledge is power, and in Europe the Church was This gave the Church For example, dealt with particularly The locked case above the door the prohibited books. Only the abbot had the key, like the works of Copernicus you had to get his permission. As the Age of Enlightenment the Church struggled to maintain Pondering these treasured books from our Information Age I'm reminded both how and of the importance Prague is well-served You can tame any big city by taking advantage of Trams slither up and down the cobbled streets The service is many locals never get around We're heading across town to St. Wenceslas, commemorated by this statue, is the &quot;good king&quot; The statue is Locals says, &quot;I'll see ya The &quot;good king&quot; was actually and highly cultured Stories of his enlightened reign to see Czechs as civilized To this day, Wenceslas is Wenceslas Square is the main and a natural assembly point need to raise their In the 19th century, and ruling families Here, as in much of Europe, By the end of World War I, and the birth of was celebrated That independence lasted In 1939, While Prague escaped it couldn't avoid and stayed for 40 years. But with this square people power In the 20th century, my family lived history In 1918, my grandma watched being pulled down In 1939, my aunt saw In 1968, my dad stood here against the Soviet tanks. In 1989, it was So you were here. In November '89, headed for this square, kicked off two weeks For 40 nights, this square Each night, And on the last night, who would become announced from that balcony the resignation of -Wow. Rick: And without a shot, had ended for And today, a big part is the freedom to enjoy what many consider Prague's beer halls, are an integral part of Over the generations, almost liquid bread beverage to a lighter, more refreshing It seems Czechs and they drink it with and in a place like this, good conversation and quick especially with your Prague's skyline of red roofs and towering spires that the city the oldest Jewish Dispersed by the Romans Jews and their culture throughout the Western world. Jewish traders settled here In the 13th century, now the oldest Stepping into this venerable and marvelling at how the tumult of the ages, we feel eight centuries The old cemetery this Jewish community With limited space and tens tombs were piled atop The Jewish word for cemetery Like Christians, death is the gateway A walk through here affords in a serene setting. About a hundred years ago, was torn down and rebuilt as the attractive neighborhood fine mostly Art Nouveau The few surviving are thought-provoking This synagogue filled with historic Even as Nazis were destroying Jewish communities Czech Jews were and archive But even the curators ultimately ended up Nearby, another synagogue to the victims of the Nazis. Of the 120,000 Jews living here only 15,000 lived to see These walls are covered with of over 78,000 local Jews who were sent to [Man speaking in Czech] Rick: A voice reading provides a moving soundtrack. [Woman speaking in Czech] Rick: Family names are read, birth dates, that person was known [Man reading names in Czech] Despite the horrors the Jewish religion endured, survives in Prague The Art Nouveau facades in streets all over the city that life is precious Prague is perhaps the best Art Nouveau was It celebrated creativity design, fine living -- For a closer look at that visit the Mucha Museum. I find the art of who worked around 1900, With the help of an abundant and an ability to be Mucha was a founding father His specialty? portraits of rich wives, and slinky models But he grew tired and redirected A short tram ride away, the Czech National Gallery is Mucha's latest work, Mucha dedicated 18 years, to painting It's a series of designed to tell the story of In this self-portrait, is the seer -- a conduit of a sage Slav Mucha paints a brotherhood Serbs, Russians, who share a common heritage, and a hard-fought past. Through these illustrations Czechs can trace Mucha, with his romantic shows how through the ages, have brought terror whose pagan roots are woven deep into their national character. With each panel, you get more caught up The establishment of provided a common thread To maintain their identity, to the Roman Church with courageous leaders boldly confronting The printing of the Bible was a cultural milestone. Then they endured during the time Czechs were Mucha's final canvas of the Czech people they joined with their The &quot;Slav Epic.&quot; While Prague is history, and a wealth the most lasting from visiting this is the spirit of a youthful spirit and looks forward to a prosperous future. And that's enough of The Prague Castle Orchestra is and Lida and Honza Whether you come to Prague its slinky art, or the Czech people, I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Na zdravi!&quot; Whether you come to Prague Whether you come to Prague for It's a great place to visit. [Laugh] And beyond its striking facades, it's one of Europe's most... Da da da da da. Love me two times I'm going away Would you like more muscles