Seventy one percent of covered in water. Three point five million cubic Three hundred and sixty gallons. That's over forty of water for every But today, one out of access to safe Some projections will show half our population will water-stressed areas. That's people. These aren't just countries. Something you These are things that communities all the time. lead contamination. The military of Puerto Rico. And that's things. But one of them five percent of that water oceans. It's saturated with And most of the earth's in glaciers or Less than 1 percent of When you dig a little surface, even here in the large numbers of people that safe, clean So why can't we just filter out the salt and supply of clean, Desalination broadly is the salts from water. It's been practice In fact, it's It occurs when the sun water evaporates off and rainfall. If you mix dissolves. And if you while you did that, you'd actually breaking apart the particles that chemically water. So salt water solution. It's not just grains floating around And that's why desalination tricky process. The two desalination are thermal osmosis. Thermal desalination is of desalination. It's essentially boiling water the steam and turning But in the 60s, we osmosis processes at UCLA started to dominate So one of the chief is reverse osmosis doesn't anything. You're really water to a tremendous it through a membrane where go. It wants to But with this high pressure, separate from the salt. Broadly speaking, what you want desalination is where's my and do I have enough of enough of it, do I Desalination then starts to attractive or Which is why the efforts right now are the Middle East Rich with fossil fuels, extreme water scarcity. Just two countries, Saudi produce one fourth of is produced currently Concerns about desalination three categories: the amount how much it costs, There are some that really solution. There are others argue that it's It's very expensive. It has impacts on the we should pursue It requires a tremendous basically break up that and salt. Ocean water desal times as energy intensive approaches. Historically, the water desalination being more in North America It has been The Cloud Lewis outside of San Diego is in the Western Hemisphere since 2015, producing 50 water a day. It's in its dry, arid climate. The county has historically of its water from the California. In San Diego, they are spending twice desalination as they do Now, they were looking at some point in the future, comparable. And I think some the fact that, well, when that's probably when you Today, desalinated water approximately twice as much You're comparing apples and imported water is coming built half a century ago investment has been Standing down for 5 or some major breakthrough in going to materially reduce infrastructure. That's not unique water. It's true of We have a huge deficit. We need to start building transportation and Now, not 5 or The Carlsbad Plant is public/private partnership with Seawater desalination In the proposed desalination plant, we're public/private partnership where the percent privately financed and a longterm, fixed-price with the public Essentially, we're recovering time through the There's an infrastructure deficit States. There's certainly deficit in California. And you can't expect government to pay for The private sector is going private dollars. And I opportunity in water in a the ratepayers and also of private capital beyond of producing the energy plants. Another concern not just outputting They're also producing huge salty water, called brine, Seawater desalination plants osmosis typically operate at efficiency in that if you seawater, you're going to fresh water and one gallon It's a fixed volume of remove. So whether I put it water or a tenth of a going to be there and more concentrated. As it's not clear what should huge amounts of brine. Globally right now, we're billion gallons a day. Most brine is in one into the ocean. But because salt concentration than regular the potential to, among other sea floor and wreck havoc animals found there. In facilities are taking in seawater a day, the local marine life. But operates the Carlsbad plant, in California provide protection. Numerous studies have California and around the level of salinity increase life. And you're also people in need. But a 2018 showed that we're than we thought. For water, we produce 1.5 liters of brine. In other words, overall, brine than we And while some places regulations regarding brine in clear that as a whole disposal seriously Currently, we are disposing of which we use to dispose about 40-50 years ago. So if desalination uses a is very expensive compared in the end we're harmful brine than clean continue to pursue it? Desalination has its drawbacks, benefits is that it's a process particular for dealing You can be confident that water when you need it. Water scarcity is a Climate change is introducing growing Weather is variable, but desalination plant, energy, and can reliably get But desalination undeniably uses of energy. And for difficult to advocate for be adding to our I think when we start water-scarce worlds, we start energy provides It heats our homes, it buildings. And if we think that could give us water know, the average person uses about a hundred gallons If I were to produce with ocean water desal, that electricity consumption that require over an hour. So to context, I think we start energy resources and where How important is water? It is the most And people go out and every day and spend more on a month's supply And they don't realize desalination alone is not world's water problems. Up in some places where desalination probably won't make Poseidon Water as a company seawater desalination is We can't just build one or solve our Desalination is not the scarcity. It's one of the gap between water But for some communities already making an It's currently a pretty water supply globally and so. There are, though, is a fairly It can be quite important Desalination is one And for it to have implemented alongside Israel maybe provides a have invested quite a desalination, but they also efficiency such that their water person basis is far lower California or in many, many States. So they did those they aren't wasting that That then delayed their need And when they built it, they smaller than they So there's a cost, a the community. I would almost safe bet, you know, A desalination plant is your your portfolio. Kind of it's going to deliver. I less environmentally damaging That seawater desalination In some communities, they options. Others, though, do They can use water save water, save energy, environmental impact. And while most attention desalination, a similar process treating many other sources wastewater. The volume of all collected and recycled, equivalent to five times the passes through Niagara And if we look at desalinated water, which we an annual basis is almost volume of the water Falls. We don't want to of desal, brackish water, which of brackish water is it's water, but it's It's that whole space energy requirements are because there's less salt. stuff to remove, Desalination is an important against water scarcity. Its reliability is becoming but it's not a should always be Desalination is already water-scarce communities around And as climate change planet, the balance between use and the ability to is going to evolve. fit into the future of clean seen.