Good to see all of you.You see a quote up of quantum mechanics: "Anyone who thinks getting dizzy hasn't yet understood the Now, why would that be? What did Niels Bohr mean by that? Well, basically he meant that we all have Right? And by that, I mean, you know, if I was to a catch. Nice! Did a one-handed catch right there. Throw this a little bit further back. Here we go, two for two. Nope, we're still one-for-two. They're still back in the dark ages--here You have that one over there? Good. Right now, each one of the people who caught, is really an evolved human being. Now, you see, when we were out there in the skills, we needed to be able to know where get the next meal. We needed to dodge some animal that was running And therefore we learned the basic physics We learned that intuitively. And that's why when I throw an object, you to figure out the trajectory of that stuffed You just put out your hand and catch it. It's built into our being. But that's not the case when we go beyond If we explore the world, say of the very small, which is what we are going to focus on here tonight, we don't have experience in that We don't have intuition in that domain. And in fact, were it the case that any of did have some quantum mechanical knowledge and probability waves and wave functions and Their genes didn't propagate, right? And therefore we have to use the power of to peer deeper into the true nature of reality And that's what quantum mechanics is all It's trying to describe what happens in and revealing. And the thing to bear in mind is that even in some sense be in the microworld, the world So any weirdness that we find down there in even in the macroworld and maybe suppresses--we'll But it's not like there's a sharp divide We are big beings made of a lot of small things. So any weirdness about the small stuff really And in this journey into the micro-world, of the world leading experts to help us along, And let me now bring them on stage. Joining us tonight is a professor of philosophy spent 22 years at the University of Oxford He is the author of a book on the Everett &quot;The Emergent Multiverse.&quot; Please welcome David Wallace. Also joining us tonight is a professor of Berkeley, co-director of the Berkeley Quantum scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National She's a fellow of the American Physical Alexander von Humboldt Foundations. Please welcome K. Birgitta Whaley. Our third participant is a professor of physics Investigator and member of the Simons Foundation He was a Canada research chair and Sloan Foundation for mathematical physics for 2014. Please welcome Mark Van Raamsdonk. Our final participant is a professor of theoretical and winner of the 1999 Nobel Prize in Physics the foundations for the standard model of of our era, please welcome Gerard 't Hooft. Alright, so the subject is quantum mechanics, some challenge to the conventional thinking about quantum mechanics. And so before we get into the details, I thought Get a sense of where you stand on quantum Is it, in your mind, a done deal? It's finished, we completely understand Is it a provisional theory? Is it something which 100 years from now we're "How did they think that that's how things So, David, your view. Well I don't think we fully understand it I think it has a lot of depth left to plumb, But right at the minute, I think we don't to think that anything will take its place. Good I think it's here to stay. There maybe extensions, modifications, there still be part of it, in my view. OK, Mark Yeah, so there's a frontier in quantum mechanics It's like the wild west of theoretical physics, and gravity, and we need to do that to understand the big bang. And there's a lot to do, and we don't mechanics, or it will all be the same quantum Now, Gerard, you have unusual views. Well yes, I could spend the rest of the evening But, to my mind, quantum mechanics is a tool, what happens if you have some underlying equations. And telling us how particles and other small We know the answer to that question--the answer But we don't know the question, that's Good. So, sort of a jeopardy issue, if you know (Exactly.) Alright, so just a quick overview. We're going to start with some of the basics sure that all of us are more or less on the We'll then turn to a section on something something weird, "quantum entanglement" We'll then turn to issues of black holes, will take us right through to the end. Alright, so just to get to the basics of quantum The story, of course, began more or less in We understood the world using classical physics And then something happened in the early part started with Newton, of course, then we moved What drove the initial move into quantum physics? David? I think it was really just pushing really into the scale of atoms and the structure snapped and broke. That trying to use classical mechanics to went around atoms without collapsing into In all those places, we had a series of hints And it took, I guess, most of 30 years for But that coherent theory then became not really for writing physical theory, be it theories And that language was more or less sort of Yup. Yeah and it's actually quite remarkable develop a radically new way of thinking about And Richard Feynman, who is of course a hero said that there was one experiment--we can you described, with the ultraviolet catastrophe experiments--but the Double Slit Experiment, conversation, allows us to get to the heart This actually is the paper on, in some sense, The first version, Davisson and Germer. And I'll draw your attention to one thing. You see the word "accident"? And this is just a footnote. But, in the old days, people would actually in a scientific paper. But as science progressed, we were kind of Only talk about what went right!" But here is an old paper, and indeed this laboratory at Bell Labs. They were doing a version of this experiment, glass tube shattered, and when they re-did the experiment to something that was actually were initially carrying out. So, just to talk about what this experiment what's the basic idea of the Double Slit So you take a source of, well of particles You shine that light as a narrow beam on a at the pattern of light behind the two gaps exactly, yes. So the slits are just literally gaps in a The light's going through. If light is a particle, you'd expect one If light is a wave, you might expect something part of the slit interferes with the light And the weird thing about the quantum two-slit to be doing both of those things at the same Good. So, Birgitta, if you can just take us through So let's say we carry out the experiment with photons or electrons, we start with pellets--bullets So I think we have a little animation that So what would we expect to happen in this Well so you have the source of the pellets and some of them go through the holes, and travel rectilinear, straight ahead, as we And we get two bands at the back, indicating on the right, and the left band is the pellets Now, if I was--that's completely intuitive So this is the stuff that our forebears would Now, if we took the size of the pellets and before going to your quantum intuition that happen if you simply dialed down the size? Would you expect there to be any different So, just follow me here. The answer is...would you expect anything Would you expect anything different? (...obviously the same thing. No no not at all.) Good. Good. Naively not! Naively not. Exactly right. So here's what you would naively expect Again, you got the particles going through So Mark, tell us what exactly does happen--not to give us all a little airtime. So it's of course, while the place where that screen is exactly behind that big barrier And somehow, when you actually do the experiment, of the particles end up. So, it's always exactly the opposite. And you get this weird pattern with other And so you initially would stare at it and So we'll analyze what that means in just But I, you know, we often, I don't know, seen a still image or animation like this And I thought it would be kind of nice to It's not just an animation that an artist So we're going to actually do the Double And to do that, I'm going to invite a friend Omalon, can you wheel out, if you would, the Alright, so what we have here is a laser on So this is our source. So actually we're doing this in some sense the animation. And we're going to fire this laser, which And the photons are going to go through a harder to see that of course mechanically, openings. And we're going to take a look at the data the modern age is a more complicated and somewhat So we're all sitting here, on shpilkes, what I'm talking about right there. But hopefully this will work out. So, Omalon, why don't we just actually see Can we see a little bit of that first? Can we switch over to the input to the screen? Alright so this is the output from that device. And now, if we actually turn on the laser land, over time. There, they're building up. And there you see what actually happens. So this is the result of this very device And you see it. You can see on the very far left, we see some Then we get a dark region in between. Then a bright, a dark, a bright, a dark, a though this device over here really is a barrier So the animation that we showed you actually And that then forces us to come to grips with is actually going on. So, thank you Omalon. So there we have it. We have this situation in which we expected What does that tell us? Where do we go from there? That there's an existing bit of mathematics But it has nothing to do with particles. It's the mathematics that you use to describe Yeah. So can we see the animation that has a single? So this is a warm-up to the problem, where Just tell us what we see happening here. That's right, so you've got sort of a that slit acts as a bit of a source for And you see it's most wavy at the place That's indicated by the brightness there. Yeah. And then if we go on to a more relevant version for the actual Double Slit Experiment... Yeah, so now we've got that same wave front. But now there's two slits, and it's like like if you threw two different pebbles in And what happens is they're both, you're But some places on the screen, the wave from is doing this, and they kind of cancel out. But right there in the middle, what's happening up right when the wave from the other slit you get a big wave and that's the bright But, if you work out the mathematics, then these bright ones, and that's just like Right. So as Gerard was saying, as Mark was saying, the data that comes out of the Double Slit that seems to have nothing to do with it, with two openings. So, the conclusion then is that there is some that's where that connection comes from. And, let's push that further, so... Yeah. I mean let's just drive home how weird it So imagine I do the Two Slit Experiment. I cover up one of the slits. The effect completely goes away. I get a bit of a spreading out of the particles, but I don't get that interference. I don't get those bands. Much as we saw with water going through a Exactly, much as we see with water going through classical intuition about particles. If I cover up the other slit, exactly the It's only if I have both slits open at the So it seems to be, for all the whirls, if and something else is going through interacting to create this strange effect. And that's why it matters so much, that If this was just a massive light going through, The sunlight's going through the left slit, The left-hand light, the right-hand light But I can set this stuff up so that only one I still see the effect. It doesn't go down in its likeness. Yeah, can we see that? I think we have that-- And then you might be thinking, well maybe and half of the particle goes through one slit, But again, then you'd think you could--look--then detections. But that's not what you see. Whenever you look, each time you send a particle the particle in one place and one place only. So trying to reconcile those two accounts Yeah, exactly. So we're forced into, as David was saying, of particles behaves like a wave, which maybe waves are made of H2O molecules, particles, but each individual particle somehow has a wave-like quality. And historically, people struggled to figure is it made of and what does it represent if you have a wave associated with a particle. A wave is spread out, a particle is at a point. And it was Max Born in the 1920's who came up with the strange idea of what these waves are. So, Birgitta, what are these waves telling Well the waves, what we see is the probability of the wave, but-- So here's a wave behind you. So you said, "probability," in essence-- Yes. This is an amplitude, this is an amplitude If we take this amplitude and look anywhere we will find with some distinct probability, after measuring many times, we'll find that there's a definite probability of the particle being After sending many particles through, we found all appear on the left, or all on the right. So, in some sense, vaguely, where the wave there's a high likelihood you're going to find the particle. Where the wave is near zero, there's a very the particle. But you can't guarantee it. So any one particle could be in a place where Now these are all just pictures. In the 1920s, physicists were able to make So Schrodinger wrote down an equation, and looks like. Obviously, you don't need to know the math But Gerard, you wanted to emphasize that there has been that many people miss that point, Absolutely. Quantum mechanics, when we talk about it, And so I get very many letters by people who have their own ideas about what quantum mechanics is, and they are very good at reproducing equations, or the equations are equally fuzzy Whereas, the beauty of quantum mechanics is the fundamental mathematical coherence of these equations. You can prove that, if this equation describes then actually the equations handle probabilities to be handled. Except, of course, when two waves reinforce times as big rather than twice as big. But a lot of soft spots, the waves annihilate become zero where the waves are vanishing. So all this hangs together in a fantastically Now math is one thing. Experiment is another. So how would you test a theory that only gives rise to, Mark, probabilities of one outcome or another? How would you go about determining if it's Yeah, so it's like if you gave me a coin, You flip it, it's going to be heads half And I want to check that, I don't trust but-- Don't worry, I'm not insulted. So I just flip the coin, you know, a hundred You have a lot of patience to test these things. The more sure I want to be, the more I flip So maybe I do it 10 times and I get 4 and it a hundred times" and then I get 48 heads So I can basically just repeat the experiment precise prediction from those quantum mechanics expect to get one result versus another, So, I think we have, we can give a little Have a look. Right, so we're doing, there's our wave the thing without a definite location. Then we're setting that up a whole bunch is each time. And these X's are showing the results of That's like flipping your coin and getting Exactly. So there's all these possible locations. And what we see is that after a while, the another place, it's matching up to that wave, or wave function. That's right, so we can't predict the but over time, building up the statistics, probability profile given by this wave, whose out the shape of the wave in any given situation. And just to bring this full circle, if we wave-like language, now think of the electron it interferes like water waves going through interference pattern on the screen, which very likely that you'll find the particles. Where it's dark, it's unlikely. Where it's black, there's zero chance you run this experiment with a lot of particles, bright regions. They're going to land somewhat in the greyer regions, and they're not going to land at all in the black region. And indeed, that's exactly what we showed slit just a moment ago. And that's why we believe these ideas. So that's, in some sense, really the basics Classical physics, particle motion, is the And quantum physics, the particle motion is It's got this probabilistic wave-like character, of a wave of probability, if the wave is spread particle is here, a chance that it's here, And therefore the wave embraces a whole distinct That, in some sense, is really the weirdness So that's the basic structure. And now we're going to move on to our next chapter where we're going to dig a little bit deeper. We'll talk about measurement, and also entanglement. And it's a dead heat. They're checking the electron microscope. And the winner is...number 3, in a quantum No fair! You change the outcome by measuring it! Now either we have a very sophisticated audience, or you just love Futurama, I'm not sure which. But this is part of the issue that we now Which is, if we have a quantum setup, how saying that the electron say could be here to the definite reality that Mark was describing: the electron here or here or here. You never find anything a mixture of results. We want to talk about how we navigate going description to the single definite reality And this is something that many physicists Again, Niels Bohr, we had a quote from him one of the founding pioneers of the subject. But let's now try to go a little bit further the math to reality. And we're going to follow in, for this part in something called the Copenhagen approach So David, can you just begin to take us through, function, in technical language, what are So look at it this way. I've got my probability wave, which is sort humped over here and it's humped over here. So there's kind of two ways I can think You might say there's an "and" way and So I could think of it as saying that the Or you could think of it as saying the particle And the problem is I kind of need to use both to make sense of quantum mechanics, or so it seems. So, if I try to explain the two-slit experiment, I have to think in the "and" way to start with. I have to think the particle is going Because if it's just going through this I can close one of the slits, and it wouldn't But then as soon as I look where the particle stops making sense, because it doesn't seem--we'll if I see the particle here "and" the particle It seems as if now, I need the "or" way So what came out of the ideas of Bohr and well there must be some new bit of physics, we saw earlier isn't the whole story. So suddenly the wave function stops being So let's see a quick picture of that collapse. So if we have a probability wave here, and language, it could be in these variety of And I now undertake a measurement, and I take "or" way. It's only at one of those locations. Yeah. Suddenly it's here, and the rest of the And now if I turn away, and I stop measuring, and we're back to a language that feels some sense, at all of these locations simultaneously. Now, the issue that it raised is that you some other math to make this happen." So, first, if we just use the Schrodinger written down, would that be enough to cause Nice and spread out. And now, collapses to one location, where Can the Schrodinger equation do that for us? Birgitta? No. No. No. No. No. [to 'T HOOFT] That means no, right? It means yes? OK So, like I said, Gerard has distinct views We are going to come to those in just a moment. But let's now follow the history of the our nose and we look at the equation that So what, then, do we do to get out of this And to make this impasse even a little bit one version of this story that I hope will and then we'll try to resolve it. So I'm going to take you through a little somewhere in Manhattan. And let's imagine that the probability wave Castle in Central Park, just randomly chosen. What that would mean is if somehow I had some the particle is experimentally, observationally, at that location. The wave is sharply peaked at that spot, and therefore all the probability is focused right there. That's quite a straightforward situation. Imagine we do the experiment again, and the Let's say it's way down there at Union If you follow the same experimental measurement procedure, and you go about figuring out through your observation where the particle is, you find, indeed, there it is, Union Square. The conundrum is the issue that David was where we don't have one peak, but two. Now it's sort of like the particle is at And that's puzzling, because if you go about looking at the observation, what do you think will happen here? Well the naive thing is, your detector kind It's sort of caught between the particle But the thing is, nobody has ever found a sober has ever found a detector that does Right? This is not what we experience in the real So this is the issue that we have to sort Because that naive picture is not borne out And I think many people here and many people You in particular, David, believe that you It has a long historical lineage, but why that you think resolves this? OK. Let's start by reminding ourselves, what's suddenly jumps to being in Belvedere or Union And the problem is really just that we'd every level to handle that. So the Schrodinger Equation just does not And to put it mildly, we've got quite a and for a whole bunch of reasons. Actually trying to change the physics to make that sudden collapse of the wave function physical, and not just, as Gerard was putting is a really, really difficult problem. But you could say that we have to do that, seem we ever see a particle here and here And I think Brian's joke is about right would be like to see a particle here and here It would be like being really drunk, like But here's the thing, if you want to work and my looking at a particle is just one more not a very good way to predict what happens. So how do we ask, what would it really be at the same time? Well, what does the physics say? I'm just one more measuring device. And the physics says something like this. If I saw the particle here, I'd go into If I look at the particle there, then I'd go into If it's in both states at the same time, So, being a little loose for the minute, then here" and "seeing the particle there." And if I tell Brian where the particle is, now in the "David says it's here, David And the whole audience would have to listen You're all now in the "it's here" And the reality is that, even if I don't And so, before you know, the whole planet was seen here and particle was seen here at And those two states don't interact with They're way too complicated to do the sorts with the two slits. You can't do a two-slit experiment on the whole planet. And so for all intents and purposes, what sets of goings on, each of which looks, for And that's where the terminology of this about, the Many Worlds Theory. It was Hugh Everett who said, look, if you led to this crazy sounding idea of there being time you make a quantum measurement. But the thing I want to stress here, is it's but let's bring in an even weirder idea to make it even stranger. It's, whatever it was saying, and what the have been trying to make precise, is the idea equation itself--when you take it very seriously, not at the level of microscopic physics, but everyday, then the physics is describing many The quantum probability wave carries on being So you're talking about many universes? So this is where this idea of parallel universes So, in the example that we were looking at, this measurement, there would be "you seeing it at Union Square," and as you said, once and we're all going along with you in one So that's one approach to try to disambiguate has many possibilities. You're saying, "no no, it's not just They all just happen to happen in distinct And weirdly, that's a conservative idea. Mathematically conservative. And that's actually a vital point. So, and this is an idea that is hard to communicate I'm sure many of you are technically trained, equations of quantum mechanics and just take the math takes you. But does that convince--so are you guys convinced? Birgitta, you-- There are alternative perspectives. But what about--why don't you like this I like it. I think it's fascinating. I think it's wonderful. But let's bring in some information. So how much information are we going to keep? So this "many worlds" hypothesis would But if we--so we have a measuring device, with the environment. Then the environment of outside is also playing And of these many many options, measurements the environment, which is interacting with that measurement device and producing many much more information, but then we throw all Then we're left with something which produces So you're talking technical language of Yes. I'm introducing this technical term that of these... So your belief is that if we don't focus into account how it talks to and interacts enough to solve the conundrum? Well, I'm, there's also mathematics to So this is another perspective. I'm not saying we don't know it, which But this is a very strong argument for saying universes at once. What's your view on the many-- Yeah, I mean, I think it's what you were It's basically just going all in on the got this beautiful equation. It applies to the atomic world. Let's take it seriously and just, if we through the mathematics there that at the like collapse if you look at just a part of But then the only thing is that, in the end, that there's maybe a part of the wave describing then that question of well why, of many worlds? Is there some way to understand, you know, So Gerard, how about--now, I know that you When you asked me about this question about supposed to nod "no," and I nodded "yes." And, I caught you off trap for a moment. And the point of this is that the quantum mechanics today is the best we have to do the calculation But the best we have doesn't mean that the So, according to the equations, we get these I agree with that statement. But I don't agree with the statement that to accept all these other universes for being No, the calculation is incomplete. There is much more going on that we didn't And then again, you can mention the environment So, we are so used to physics that unimportant leaves out everything taken for granted. But if you do that, you don't get for certain of different universes. It doesn't mean that the real outcome that splits into a superposition of different universes. It means our calculation is inaccurate, and And that doesn't mean that our theory is We made lots of simplifications. Instead of describing the real world, we split All the particles we talk about are not real of a real particle. We use that because it's the best we can It's by far the best we can do. So, in practice, that is just fine. But you just have to be careful in interpreting The result does not mean that the universe The result means, yes, this answer is the Now, look at the amplitude of the universes The one with the biggest amplitude, is most But, all the other answers could be correct which we are unable to do. Today, and perhaps also tomorrow. We will also, we will be unable to do it exactly So we will have to do with what we've got And what we got today is an incomplete theory. We should know better, but unfortunately we to do a more precise calculation. That precise calculation will show wave functions same time, like you had in Manhattan at this No, in the real world, we are never in a superposition, phenomenon into account, and you cannot ignore If you ignore that, then you get all this If you were to do the calculation with infinite everything that happens in this room and way you would find a wave function which doesn't You would find one which peaks only at the Now, this view... But the theory is so unstable, that the most phony signals that say, maybe the universe did this, maybe the universe did that, maybe it did that. Only if you do it precisely correctly, then Yeah. Now that resonates obviously with an idea quantum mechanics was incomplete-- Yes, this is. Yes, I think Einstein would agree with such-- Yeah, I think that he would too. Maybe he would have his own ideas. But anyway, to me it sounds like an Einsteinian That, no, nature's absolute. God doesn't gamble. The gamble is in our calculation, because So let's take a step back and see why Einstein is incomplete, which takes us to the next something called quantum entanglement. So, this is an idea that has a long history "I would not call"--entanglement, which the characteristic trait of quantum mechanics, from classical lines of thought." So here's again one of the founding pioneers that we're about to describe as the key our classical way of thinking. And as we'll see, it quickly, in the hands aligns really with what Gerard was saying. And that comes most forcefully in a paper mind, because we're going to come back to write a paper, Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen. And we can just, this is actually a New York call the theory "not complete," much as And it's good to get a feel for why it is And it involves this idea of entanglement, some of the key steps. And it's good to do it in the context of It's not the example that Einstein and his But it's an example having to do with a So just to set it up and then I'll let the When we talk about a particle, say, like an You could think of it almost like a top that's And roughly speaking, using classical language counterclockwise, you say it's spinning If it's clockwise, you say it's spinning And weirdly, a particle can be in a mixture of the "and." And only when you measure the particle, you is at--in the case of the particle in Manhattan, it's one spin or another. It's spinning down or up, but it's definite You never find it in between. Again, you can do a second measurement, and spinning up. And that's a quality of a single particle But entanglement arises when you don't have And here's the weirdness that happens. If you do a measurement in this situation, you'd think they're completely independent, if you do a measurement, it's always the one on the right is down. They never are both up or both down. And we can go back to this story again, do apart as you want, and you measure it, and right one is up. So they're kind of locked together by a is graphically what we're representing by Now, Gerard was talking about incompleteness What was Einstein's view of what was going Well, Einstein's view was that, really, that the math says are both spinning up and look deeper to the deeper structure that Gerard always have a definite spin. They're not actually going up and down; They actually have a definite spin and therefore and the other is down, they were already like It's not as though there was some long distance And this is what's known as quantum entanglement. And when I describe this to a general audience, Yeah, you measure it here, it's down, you But then they always come back to me and say, You know, like, but just, "tell me, explain I say, "I just did explain to you what's That's all there is--" "No, no," they So how should we interpret this result? So Einstein says the way you interpret it But then we try to do experiments and see So there's a famous person that comes into So what is, Mark, what does Bell do for us? I mean, basically, to put it simply, he finds description where the thing had the definite it can't explain the results. So it just...you can't... When you say the results you are talking about That's right. Yeah, so he writes this famous paper. What year, is this 1964? I think this...I think it's like 1964. He writes this famous paper where he surprisingly of an Einsteinian view, that things are definitely mathematics that's giving this weird superposition And then people go out and ultimately starting, the '70s then into the '80s with Alain They carry out the measurement, and they find, doesn't describe the actual data. So if Einstein were here, I think he'd have mechanics is complete, but the chink in the So, Gerard, what's your--because you're do you deal with, let's say this very experiment? May I just add one point of interest? You can think of a classical experiment as Think of--I take two marbles in a black box. One marble is red, the other one is green. Now, I shake the marbles as much as I want. I put--blindfolded, I put one marble in one And now I bring these boxes as lightly as As soon as somebody who sits--or say one on So somebody on Earth opens this box, and at Before they opened the box, they didn't in the box. Was it the red one, was it the green one, As soon as the one on Earth opens the box the guy on Mars knows he has the green marble. That information went much faster than light. But you also know all this is nonsense, because I had one red, and one green marble. So what's the big issue? No problem, right? So, the Bell experiment is fundamentally different So what you described, you described sort Einstein would say, don't get worked up It's just like having a green marble or Einsteinian picture would work perfectly well No sweat, no difficulty. We understand this situation. No miracle at all. But for the Bell Lab experiment with the spinning particle is a quantum spinning particle, and It can either spin up or spin down. But then someone asked, what about spinning Why not rotate the particle 45 degrees or that's a quantum superposition." But, now if the one person on Earth looks is spinning down, but then when the person the guy on Mars sees the particle spinning it either spinning up or spinning down, we But when they both look at the sideways direction, That is the miracle. That is a thing which is very very difficult I maintain, but this is my private opinion, How? Because this is where Einstein failed... Because they both have the same origin. They both came eventually from an atom emitting electrons or something like that, which were So the entanglement can be explained in terms was not that the particle could be doing just No, there are correlations all over the place. This is very, very difficult to explain, and but the answer lies in correlations. Do you think there is a way out of this impasse? I think there is a way out. But it's extremely non-trivial, and if you by the situation. It is actually also extremely hard to make So yes, we have a problem, but now I think is very difficult and you have to work very That will be in the footnotes of tonight's You'll receive it in your email. So David, your view on entanglement? Is there a mystery here, or...? There's a kind of mystery, and it can link Look at it this way. My wave--my probability wave for the two spinning something like half is this--down up--and And again we can ask this--well do I want Do I want to say, well, it's this "or" this "and" it's this. Now if it's this "or" this, that's That's not mysterious at all. And that's exactly what Einstein, Podolsky, But what Bell's results show us is that just like in some ways the "this slit OR would lead to experiment predictions that We can't, at least straightforwardly, we seeing the entangled system as being this And now we're right back to the mystery, this, which seems to imply some sort of deep somehow saying everything there is about this separate doesn't tell you anything. That weird reading seems compulsory. Right. So, Birgitta, your view on this? Should we fret about entanglement? Is it-- I think Gerard raised a very important point. It's that when one talks about entanglement, got entangled. And they get entangled through an interaction. And I think, to most physicists, entanglement in those terms, even in just atomic or molecular So you take the two electrons in the helium In the ground state, the helium atom is--if know we can't do that, because they're But were you able to take those two electrons entangled pair. But we know how they got there, because they electronic state. And so if you randomly just put two particles Yeah. To my mind, though, the very fact that--I you CAN set it up still makes me, in Niels But yes, I agree that does mitigate it to of common experience that it's still hard But for these purposes, let's assume entanglement Because now we want to move on to think about like in the vicinity of a black hole. So that's the next thing that we're going And for that extent let's move on to the And we'll also begin with a little clip. Lisa, do you have a stray dog down there? Um, it's a lot worse than a stray dog. Two stray dogs? It's a black hole! That was going to be my next guess. Are you sure your next guess wasn't "three Maybe. Alright, so black holes. I think most people here are quite familiar But just again, to get us on the same page, Yeah, so it comes out of Einstein's picture not sort of a passive background, but it's that kind of in response to the mass and energy And the black hole is the situation where You have, so much matter--could be a gigantic burned up it's fuel and it starts to collapse. And as it's getting denser and denser, warping And at some point, you get this space--the the thing we call a horizon, you get the point can't get out, you can't send signals basic notion of a black hole. Now there are many puzzles about black holes, One in particular that I want to focus on and ultimately the structure of spacetime, chapter, which is simply this--if something information it contained? Right? So to just be concrete, imagine if I was to My wallet has all sorts of information, my They took it out of my pocket, they throw horizon, the edge that Mark was referring And at least in the non-quantum, the classical And then you can think that the information on the other side. We can't get at it, unless we go in. But if we do that, there are consequences--we You know, so that's sort of the classical This becomes a really big puzzle and a bigger the story, because of a result that was due who you may not have heard of, one who you So, back in the '70s, Jacob Bekenstein, They began to apply quantum ideas to black is that black holes are not actually completely So anyone just jump in and--what is it that Or Mark, go ahead. So Hawking found, when you start to apply of a black hole, that there are quantum effects particles out of it, as if-- Yeah, I think we have a little picture that Yeah, so this sort of a quantum effect where horizon of the black hole where what we would The particle that is red, and the particle Virtual particle is red, and the antiparticle This can happen in quantum mechanics, but end up going out, and so what it looks like-- And their partners fell in, they went out. We don't see those partners-- Which would mean, from far away, if we look That's right. So there we go. So the black hole looks like it's emitting So you see it's getting smaller. Hawking did a detailed calculation to show getting hotter and hotter and hotter, and and more quickly, and ultimately disappearing. So all of this information that might have the thermal radiation going out into space. And all this is happening, if I understand--so this quantum process right at the edge that Particle and anti-particle sort of pop out The difference is, now with the black hole the pair, get sucked in, the other just rushes And that's what makes this puzzle sharp, hole, and then you have this radiation coming even disappears through this. Everything that went in has come out, but imprint of the wallet, doesn't somehow embody Hawking's calculation showed that, it should You get the exactly the same radiation. But whether it's my wallet or whether it's sort of come out the same. The information is lost. Now this disturbed Gerard deeply. Very much so. But the statement you just made was only about The Hawking particles form what you call a out in a completely fundamentally chaotic But it doesn't mean that they don't know Again, it's quantum mechanics, but again which is more precise, and which we should And yes, there was missing information, and radiation coming out... So can we show--? ...Because your wallet, yes, if you want to field, even though it's very light compared That gravity is sufficient to leave a very And that's enough... So we sort of see that imprint here of my The effect of this is that the information ready to come out again in the form of the And this, in principle, you can compute. And you find that the culprit is the gravitational to take into account. Then you get a tremendous problem. You don't understand how can it be that cards in your wallet, that information gets Well, a normal person would never be able to get back your wallet. So surely, it's a better shredder you'll still contains the information. Right. So people won't actually be able to do this No, in practice, of course you won't. ...just like with the shredder, in principle So this is an idea that you developed also we call the holographic principle, the holographic Again, because if information is stored on it sort of brings to mind a hologram, which When you illuminate it correctly it yields Here, you've got information on this thin reconstruct the object that went in. And that's why this word "holography" So this is sort of a deep insight which has People, Gerard and Lenny and others, think the universe in any environment, even right data exists on a thin two-dimensional bounding projections, using this language, of this that you wouldn't think would even have make it adequate to describe all the comings Yes, David? Yeah, I just want to sort of pin down for first place that the information was lost? We've- but by assuming the information was new ideas in physics. And I think there's a somewhat of a temptation wrong lesson. Maybe what we should learn is information Deal with it." Which is what Hawking said. Which is what Hawking himself thought, exactly. And there's still a minority of people in And I think the deeper reason to think why-- But Hawking doesn't take that line in the Hawking changed his mind. Right. And I think the deeper reason to see why the it goes back to where we started, the idea else in the universe that we know is hot has but basically says it can be in zillions and zillions averaging over all those states, we get out That's how thermodynamics is grounded in in the universe. If information is lost forever in black holes, different reason than why everything else And this whole story about holography and a bet, and it seems to me a very well-motivated the same reason everything else is hot. Right. So, again, one way of saying that is, when because, in some sense, stuff is burning near fell in is compressed at the center. And that's unfamiliar, because, when a star stuff responsible, the fuel, is burning right But with a black hole, all of the fuel, the out over here. And that distinction might suggest that it's absolutely right. We want all the usual ideas of physics And that's what the approach of holography And what I'd like to do now is if we can time is a little bit short. I want to take this idea of entanglement, Let me just introduce that a little bit. One of the things--you know, Hawking did his didn't have a theory that actually combined He was using bits of quantum mechanics and result that you lose information. And if that were true, it would say that gravity You have to change quantum mechanics somehow, And so this is why this holographic insight It sort of has given us a way of avoiding And so, this way--there's now--it's been doing quantum gravity, of combining gravity And it uses this holographic idea in a completely And it was like that picture of the Earth It's kind of like saying that our reality that we're in, there's kind of an underlying those 1's and 0's on the surface surrounding And that's what Brian was referring to as So somehow if you want to understand the quantum and gravity, what you really want to do is and not kind of directly trying to the calculations So it's a very powerful--we'll come to a very powerful dictionary, in some sense. You now have two ways of describing a given You can describe it sort of in the conventional a three-dimensional world that has comings Or you have an alternative language if you which is the physics that takes place on this thin bounding surface. And sometimes, that latter description gives from the traditional description. And we're going to come to a version of But yeah, Gerard. Yeah, I think you can make the picture a little you throw something into the black hole, when never actually see it pass through the horizon. It hangs around at the horizon. So it shouldn't be too surprising that that So can I just flesh it out for half a second? So what Gerard is saying is, if you look at you find that as a clock gets closer and closer off time ever more slowly. So if you're watching this from very far motion as it goes toward the edge of the black It doesn't just immediately go over the In fact, it goes so slow that it would take for it to actually fall over the edge. So it hangs out there. The observers there would think that the clock But the clock is simply slowing the time that that "oh, that's time I'm going through But, for the outside the observer, that's The other observation one could make is, it's how much, how can it put other kinds of information Take a box with a certain radius--or let it And ask, how much information can I put in So take a gas, or take a liquid, or take a when do I get the maximum amount of information? You can calculate that, and what you find that takes so much energy that those encyclopedias make a black hole. And what is the object that contains the most It's the black hole. It always wins. So, the black hole is the maximum. There is no way, no matter what you put in in that box than what fits on the surface. And that's the holographic principle. Information is two-dimensional, not three-dimensional. And that is very strange, so that's why It is as if, you know, we have a three-dimensional of holography. I don't really know. It is a camera which makes a picture, and angles it looks like reconstructing the three-dimensional But it only exists on a two-dimensional surface. So did you doubt this idea, when you first, Yeah, this is, in the discussion with Lenny Right, but were you certain that this was Or was this so strange that you were...? Well, no, it is very strange, but this comes But it's very counterintuitive. Yeah, yeah. It's like saying our reality is not as real Yeah, right, yeah, which for most of us is So the question is, what happened to the rest The three-dimensional information doesn't mysterious aspect of our space time. So let's take this holographic idea, and have been pioneering. Yeah, I mean, so if we take it seriously then... But let me--before we get that, because there's be useful, and it's right here, which is, is the idea of wormholes. So if you can just take us through what a So the wormhole, if you set to solving Einstein's geometries are possible for space time, then it's like you have a black hole in an empty And then there's this entirely separate So the top and the bottom of this picture. Yeah, so that's the space. The flat part is the space in one universe, But you see it's connected down to the flat there's this physical, geometrical connection. So if one person jumped into one black hole, hole at the bottom, they could potentially being annihilated by the black hole. So it's sort of a tunnel connecting these That's right. Are you volunteering? Uh, I'll pass on that one. Alright, and who--so you may recall I said Podolsky Rosen, which was that entanglement This is also 1935, where it's Einstein and And in Einstein's mind, I think it's pretty I don't think he thought there was any connection Entanglement on one hand, coming from quantum separate subjects at the time, and some of colleagues have been pursuing is suggesting between these ideas. It's truly amazing, so So, I think we'll sort of step through that So we have a little, you can sort of walk So we're looking at some kind of universe. There's a black hole in this universe. And then what's on the outside is this hologram; in our modern way of understanding. So this red around the outside has all of of geometry is in there-- So that's Gerard's hologram. The information. That's Gerard's hologram. On the outside, you've got that hologram And that's coding for the fact that there's in the spacetime. Yeah. And then if we go on and go to the second OK, so we show-- Alright, now we've got two separate black And basically that's going to be encoded So you change up the information and now you've Yup, and then if we add to the story a certain So here what we did was we turned that situation behind the two black holes. And the remarkable thing is, in order to do description, in the outside description, what fundamentally quantum mechanical. What we had to do is actually add in a whole of the hologram. And that was what achieved getting this, this So, just to summarize, because this is a deep that entanglement in the holographic description, nothing but a wormhole connecting two black That's right, which is, sort of a classical kind of classical understanding of gravity. It's just a geometrical connection saying property is entirely, according to this--or to quantum entanglement between different And, moreover, if you find that you can actually without a black hole in space. So take us from here. Yeah, so I--this was I guess 2009, I was thinking It seemed crazy, and then one of the things entanglement and about just our description is that even when you're describing empty space, In the holographic description, there's And then you sort of ask yourself, well wait, was creating a connection between the two there, in this picture--could that have something of connected up into one nice smooth, empty That space has threads. In some sense, we call it the fabric of space, Could that be related to this entanglement? And then you were able to mathematically study lines on the outside. Right. So it's what we call a thought experiment. You just sort of take your math--your description I cut those threads of entanglement. What happens if--? So if we cut some of them-- --I take the left half of the hologram and the entanglement between those two sides? There's an effect. You remove entanglement in the hologram, and it, you know, you could actually imagine even So you've got a ball of clay, and you're and further apart, and the middle is pinching You say, well what would happen if I took even more entanglement, and then in this model, it's split into four pieces. And I still got a little bit of entanglement, happens in this description is that the big describing just splits up into millions of And once you've got no more entanglement more spacetime at all. And so you get to, you know, if this is all conclusion that maybe you've just understood fundamentally quantum mechanical that space in the underlying hologram system. So it's this beautiful possibility that space itself together, and it may be entanglement threading it all together, which is, you know I, you know, as a, you have dreams of things Certainly when I was a graduate student, the fundamental structure of space itself, it And the work that you guys are doing is starting So I'm going to personally applaud right stunning insight which puts together all these of holography, all put together to gain these So we're sort of out there in the depths We're just going to spill over for a couple Because I just want to sort of pull us back actually do in the world around us that might So, Birgitta, you know, you work in the arena So, what are the possibilities of actually a manner that could actually have an impact Well, over the last 30 years there's been information, which is really a marriage of this is still the quantum mechanics from the You don't even need relativistic effects And what we've seen is, in the mid-1990's, algorithm for doing a quantum--for doing a And this was an algorithm due to Peter Shor, many orders of magnitudes faster if you had principles of quantum mechanics, using superposition highly delocalized wave functions over many And then having, however, to maintain the and not allowing interaction with the environment But if you do this, then at the end, after construct a very carefully designed measurement, the end and it would be the right measurement And are we going to read this? Yes, this was very important, because factoring our encryption schemes--the encryption of anything that you would think of. And so, from that moment on, the--in a sense quantum computer, and there's been lots last 20 years. And we're now at the point where we have the quantum analog of a classical bit. And in the quantum bit, so as we saw those So, classical bit will either be in a state in outer space just now. But a quantum bit can be in a superposition--it 1, which means it will be both 1 or 0, or, So it was just carrying this mystery along And so we now have devices that are functioning You say 10? Ten. Nine actually is the economical number right But people are working furiously now to build we should have somewhere close to 100. And then once we get close to about 100, that's starts to have real technical challenges in of these machines. And that brings in these issues of the environment, And as Gerard mentioned, then you really have really control every one of those variables, engineering problem, which is just starting And then after that, I think it's impossible if at all possible to go up to about 1000 one would really have a machine which would lifetime of a universe--on a classical machine. So that would be the real change for information Amazing. So we're just about out of time, but I wanted to Earth, because you sort of sort out with There's a wonderful demonstration in which that I find eye-popping no matter how many Maybe some of you have seen it before--we Omalon, can you come out one more time with which is a stunning demonstration of again, mechanics allows the world to work in ways And Omalon does this freehand. I'm going to stand back and--you want me But I'm going to wear a glove. He only wears it to look like he's being bare hand all the time. You know, that's just crazy, alright? That's like 77 degrees or something? You know, Kelvin, which is cold. OK, so let's just go right to the disk if And then I'm going to give this a little Can you see that, up on the--? Can you get a shot of that? This is actually just hovering--can I give And what's happening here, if you bring called quantum locking. It's a wonderful application of quantum who demonstrated this once before. You've got magnetic lines that are penetrating It's cold--that allows it to be a superconductor. And the threads of these magnetic lines are along this track. This track has uniform magnetic field, and they will hold it in place. Here's another illustration of these ideas. Look at that, can you get a close-up of that Can you bring that up on the screen? There you go. So you see, that's just hovering right there, And can we actually--can we flip this over Yeah, so we can take this guy...and do you And do you want a glove? No, you just want to do it by hand there. Yeah, OK. More fun that way, he says. OK, yeah. Wow, that's insane. Now, can you get a shot of that underneath It is now hovering underneath, which is a demonstration of quantum mechanics. Omalon, thank you. Totally cool. Appreciate that. And I want to thank the entire panel for what David Wallace, Birgitta Whaley, Mark Van Raamsdonk, So thank you very much. Thank you.