Cuphead is the result of two brothers' lifelong Growing up in Regina, Saskatchewan during all their time watching 1930s cartoons, playing coming up with games of their own. When they were 10 for example, they held drawing fearsome and powerful monsters. Pretty soon, their games got more and more Chad built castles in the living room, protected and his other siblings were tasked with taking increasing distance. They'd also map out complicated board games The young brothers promised each other that own video game together. Over the years, they kept their creative spirit QBASIC was perfect for creating multiple role-playing hardware called the Net Yaroze was the brothers' In 2000, Chad and Jared even tried making at the time made it very difficult to do so, distribution platforms like Steam. On top of that, adulthood split them up. Jared stayed in their home town Regina to worker, while Chad moved all the way to Oakville, eventually founded his own advertising agency. Life simply got in the way of their childhood Despite the distance however, the brothers phone and kept dreaming about someday making That dream was brought closer to reality again which led to the creation of a documentary After Chad and Jared saw the development story it was impossible to keep their own dream Despite their previous attempts at making to no experience with programming or animating plenty of ways to learn all those things. The only question now was: what would they In the beginning, they kept their ambitions concepts for simple puzzle games designed However, the pair couldn't stop thinking their heads. "But even as we iterated on these early concept we had modelled after the Contra and We missed the fast-paced twitch action, the of the genre. We knew that if we were going to actually labor and money on it-that it was going So we jumped in." It wasn't until 2013 that development officially and coming up with concepts, to actually creating Of course, they still had their full-time place during the weekends. While it's true that Jared and Chad had believe it's a good rule of thumb to make moving onto something more ambitious, which During early development, the brothers made they'd like, iterated on those and implemented One day after many iterations, they started become Cuphead. The project carried the work title "Turbo mid-nineties that had names like Super Nintendo, When it came to the visual style of their any type of art style as long as they got That being said, the two aspiring developers style, as opposed to pixel art, where misplacing according to Chad. With games like Hollow Knight or Bastion for finding small human flaws in the graphics Jared told the website "Nintendo Everything" before he and his brother landed on the signature Interestingly, the original concept looked The player would start in kindergarten where After defeating a few bosses, the player would and so on. By the time you'd get to grade eight, the At some point during development, they replaced cartoons as a joke and even went as far as After showing their friends, there was no "They said we should never make our game Then I started crying, because I knew I had Obviously Chad had lots of experience with the more traditional form of 2D hand drawn His mission was clear and he started learning Richard Williams' The Animator's Survival to teach himself the ins and outs of classic Jared on the other hand dove further into his brother's early sketches into playable What followed was months of closely analyzing as kids. Many, many hours were spent watching their them to study the pen weight, tapering of Photoshop was also used to zoom in on individual shifted from one another. One thing became immediately clear: if they it was going to be a lot of work to put it Before we move on, I'd like to talk about fluent today! DataCamp is an online learning platform that convenient. The platform offers over 350 data science and professionals can find great ways to grow Each course is designed by an expert in their to choose from and master such as Python, DataCamp uses gamification techniques to make Courses are divided into tasks, or levels XP, which you can sacrifice to ask for hints Keep your day streak going by completing your What's more, it's all done from the browser any extra software. You can also learn data technologies on the DataCamp makes it convenient to either acquire job by providing skill tracks and career tracks. Use my link in the description to check out free! Unlock new career opportunities today! Chad explained in an interview with Engadget how to cut corners to create similar visual Therefore a lot of the animation from that every frame contains a single unique drawing. At 24 frames a second, the standard in film, Soon however, artists discovered that people meaning you use the same drawing for two frames This essentially cut the amount of work in Instead of drawing 24 unique drawings to fill However, Chad mentioned there's something "There's still something very weird and why it seems not traced, but almost like just And because we're dumb, we're copying that The fact that playful violence was a major lends itself perfectly to a run-and-gun video The more they thought about it, the more every And so the decision was made to stick as closely of early animation. All the characters you see in the game are backgrounds are water-color paintings. Many steps are involved to create even a couple pencil testing, animating, inking, scanning, Additionally, they did their best to ensure were set in stone by the animation studios Things like pupil shape, expressions, rubber always cross referenced during development. For the finishing touch, even little flaws included, such as film grain, scratches and And of course, they made sure those effects rather than just being a digital recreation. Some of the levels have 3D objects rotating using a computer. The objects were handmade and hand painted could be added to the game. Basically, they approached development as all the limitations that come with that era. Doing everything this way drastically slowed According to Chad, it slowed down production Luckily, it never bottlenecked the gameplay. The whimsical nature of 1930s animation allowed Not a single idea was off the table. If they wanted a character to take off its make that work. It let them experiment and have fun, adding Cuphead, but also of playing it. There was a brief time the pair considered After all, it would save them a ton of time use more of. They created some art using only digital tools, authentic look. Despite that, there was one part of the process coloring. They put a hand painted drawing next to one Jared simply couldn't tell the difference cheat that wasn't available in the early Despite this one time-saving concession, the daunting prospect. The only reason they moved ahead with it, towards run-and-gun games. They simply loved the style so much and figured for it. Furthermore, the brothers assumed this might so they wanted it to be the best possible head. When all was said and done, over 120,000 frames To put that into perspective, the original drawings. After establishing the artstyle, one of the was Cuphead himself. While they knew they wanted to retain the by characters such as Mickey Mouse, the number character, something that's not easy to of distinct looking cartoon designs. The upside to this of course, is that they As kids, they loved watching the Silly Symphony there was one of them titled "The China for the titular character. The cartoon features inanimate objects coming like giving the protagonist a plate or a fork Chip, one of the NPCs in the finished game, considered for the main character. It all fell into place after seeing a Japanese research that has a character with a cup for "We just thought, well, let's try that. We thought it was so odd. I drew a couple versions of it and right away After sketching more than 150 different designs, The name however never went through the same to the strategy of older cartoons of giving often two syllables long. From the beginning, the brothers knew they but the design for Mugman, Cuphead's brother, after several bosses had already been created. Its design had to mirror that of Cuphead, Researching early Bimbo cartoons, they noticed an exaggerated big nose, which almost made With this idea in mind, Mugman started to When it comes to the overall tone and feel more adult side of early cartoons was their Great examples of this are Fleischer Studio's Moocher'. As for the gameplay, the brothers mainly wanted of playing games growing up. It provided that 'on the edge of your seat' other parts of run-and-gun games. Speaking of bosses, most of them were designed Before sketching designs, the devs tried to and where they would be positioned on the A small portion of the design process also theme of its island. Once all of that was taken into consideration, be, what each phase looks like and how to He would then pass those ideas to Chad, who The initial public reveal happened in October on YouTube under the banner Studio MDHR. It ends with showing a 2014 release window, the game very small, with eight to ten bosses Chad and Jared wanted the game to be much the lack of funds forced them to compromise All of that began to change however when Senior at Microsoft, Alexis Garavaryan, discovered to see if they wanted to be a part of Microsoft's It was their golden opportunity to be seen for the game, without having to spend money By now, their passion project had practically The brothers spent all their free time working increasing amount of work, Studio MDHR grew with programming, animating and creating the What's interesting is that the studio involved Chad's wife, Maja Moldenhauer, joined the With no prior professional experience working software development manager at a bank, she Tyler and Ryan Moldenhauer, two cousins, also the artwork. Kristofer Maddigan was brought in as the composer two brothers. All of them would hang out as kids, play video how their favorite games were made and what To keep development costs as low as possible, use communication and management tools such Another reason they opted for no office space all over the world. Confining themselves to the local area made enough finding designers in the industry that What's more, most of the people in their of the day. Boxing them into a nine to five situation creative work they were producing. There were very apparent downsides to working Whenever they found a spare moment of time, and start working again. Furthermore, collaborating and seeing each as well as taking a coffee break together Studio MDHR lived and breathed Cuphead. As mentioned before, the team did everything time when Chad made his own lightbox table that would slowly scan one drawing at a time. After a while, when development really started printer with an automated scanner. In 2015, Cuphead made a second appearance The developers revealed a new trailer and convention. The very positive reception following the partnership with Microsoft, convinced Studio go all in. Jared, Chad and Maya quit their jobs, mortgaged funds and hired a bunch more people, scaling Suffice to say, mid-2015 is when development Thanks to Microsoft, the studio was now able for Cuphead, which meant more bosses, NPC In other words, Jared and Chad were finally Without any restrictions, the team began thinking to tie all the levels and bosses together. The team wanted to avoid the classic save feel more comparable to a 1930s cartoon. That's why it's about Cuphead's deep-seated hero destined to overcome a pre-existing obstacle. Chad and Jared feel that even though he creates for his success. People that have played Cuphead know it's to the NES and SNES era of video games and to accomplish, while simultaneously trying enjoy it. "We grew up with games that focused on being In our minds, there is no better feeling than we are creating Cuphead with that in mind. A lot of games today aren't as difficult today's gaming environment is far more diverse to be challenged like that. We recognise that, and we'll have some kind can enjoy Cuphead. But, at the same time, we are pushing the Certain people tried to dissuade the devs that it couldn't be marketed to anyone. Every time that happened, they just let it The team respects everyone's opinion about their vision and believed the challenging Kristofer Maddigan told Bandcamp that, prior a soundtrack for a game before. That's why he respectfully declined Jared on Cuphead. However, the brothers believed Kristofer was until he agreed to write a few sound mockups. From there, the soundtrack expanded to a big Kristofer admitted he watched very few vintage weren't often used in those anyway. Instead, he approached the soundtrack as he the jazz age was happening simultaneously His lack of experience was something that believes. It allowed him to be flexible and not bound The E3 2015 trailer revealed Cuphead would in 2016 that they made the difficult decision During that period, Maja realized that projecting Chad's strong suit and that she needed to Besides inking drawings all day, she began What's more surprising, is that Maja gave She considered taking some time off after help but work on her passion project when Of course, Chad was also there to take over It's another example of how truly dedicated to life and take it to the finish line no To further help prevent another delay in 2017, to help with programming, testing, support couple of months of development. The number of people working on Cuphead during On September 29th, 2017, Cuphead was finally critics praised the challenging but fair gameplay, jazzy soundtrack. Its critical success was thankfully accompanied Cuphead sold over one million copies. Once the game became available for Mac, Nintendo million copies in 2020. On top of that, Cuphead won over a dozen of best art direction, best independent game Aside from all the awards, Cuphead also broke game space, namely for having the most frames in a run-and-gun game and lastly the most If anything, Cuphead's development shows a game, as long as you start from a place Jared, Chad and Maja had very little to no one that's rooted in the golden age of animation indie games in recent times. The whole team learned a lot of valuable lessons and one of the things the team advises other "Get a small team, keep your day job, and closer to finish. Be careful before you dump real money or time Additionally Chad thinks that anyone that play all kinds of games. Modern, old, good and bad. That way you truly get to understand what Jared also shared another lesson with Kotaku. "Expect failure. That's really the best advice I could give. A lot of the time people think that their gets them through the door. You're going to make mistakes and you're by learning from what you did during your Try to do smaller projects and see where it Also, make something that you love; it's it, after a year, you're going to be breaking I never truly enjoyed?" As for the future of Studio MDHR is concerned, highly anticipated Cuphead DLC called The be released in June, 2022. Additionally, an animated series based on 2022 as well and both Jared and Chad are involved Everyone at the studio couldn't be happier store for them next. "We're just so proud. So proud of what this is and what we've It's just exactly what we've always envisioned. We haven't formally come out with what we're It will serve our current fans, and I also