In this video, we're going to muscle and how to release it Hey, everyone. Dr. Rowe Saint Joseph, Michigan. In this the main muscles that tend to back and hip pain. These which can cause pain from the cheek, the hip flexors which of the hip into the lower back QL muscle which can cause lower belt line into the top of the with these muscles is a blend make getting relief easy, I'm into two separate parts. In the focus on releasing those tight while in the second part, we're em for long-lasting relief. They are meant to work through all the exercises and With that being said, let's get going to focus on releasing pain relief. This first thing in the morning to loosen make it where you just have a day. We're going to start or on a floor. This one is going to bend our knees roughly together. What you want to do right around your knees. Now, your chest until you feel a your hips to the glutes into almost feel like your butt is bed or the floor. We're going slowly swing our hips and our we're just going to go all the this point, you should feel a the glutes. From there, we're for a second and then rock it's kind of like rocking a like to do this for about ten and I really focus on moving back as much as I can. After If it's really helping out, throw in another set or two. we're going to do is called the get a sudden pop, crack, or because it really opens up the one leg like this. The other degrees, knee straight up going to take a hand on the outside of that bent knee. Now, across your body. As you do really good stretch form on the works into the hip. Keep you feel it work into the lower that is completely normal. It once you feel that deep and the lower back, you now seconds and during that time breathing relax and then repeat with each repetition try to more from there switch sides in balance so the last movement just a little bit differently back into that position of other leg is going to be cup right on the outside of our is pull this bent knee across side shoulder. So, I'm going to left shoulder kind of like should start to feel that hips into the lower back. Hold repeat three to five times and switch sides to keep everything of these movements, you're just hits it the best, offers throw more repetitions in until So, here's the muscle release going to be a modified figure start with very good upright straight as possible. Whatever most amount of pain. Let's say that side's ankle over your look down, it should look like people are going to have position. So, to make it leg out like this, put your grab your pant leg or in front up into position. If you have allowing the leg weight to get probably going to feel a really So, if that's the case, I would about 20 to 30 seconds and you raising or lowering your knee to focus on doing is engaging to do is take this bent knee the floor as much as we can not your leg and hip strength down the more that you're going engage hold this comfortably and you're just going to relax this about five times and with into it just a little bit more side switch the other side and imbalance so let's take this throwing some more movements in tightness in other muscles that I'm going to do first is throw this bent knee press it down as our arms out in front kind of just going to simply rotate lower back towards the other a lot more muscles start to about five to 10 seconds relax towards the side of pain so I'm it again you're going to notice little bit differently another this is going to target that muscle right off to the side of to simply take the arm and hand overhead like this and tilt moving through your waist and feel a deep stretch from the the lower back towards the top tensecond hold, relax but go You're probably going to find bit more relief and at that repetitions in until everything remember, do this on both called the frog rocker and it's the muscles associated with hip going to start on all fours on sensitivity, put something like them for extra comfort. The put our feet together and we're and try to inch them outward as them out You should start to on the inner part of the thigh into the hips. Once you feel position. Now, take your hands until you feel a light stretch fingers and just grip right points. We're going to take our our chest. Now, rocking your rock and bring your butt as possible. At this point, you throughout the back intensify really good stretch form across front of the thighs. This would hip flexors. You're going to for 20 to 30 seconds and do breathing. Just let out as much rock forward, relax, take a repetition, build into it just knees out just a little bit bit more forward, rock into it So, let's take this one to the movements in there to engage quadratus lumborum. So, instead tilt your upper body towards little bit towards my left and backward. You're going to feel other side right across the quadratus lumbar muscle again 30 seconds relax also give this through all of those movements the side you're going to find right here for me just offers throw more repetitions in until the second part we're going to relief by strengthening the the lower back. This first one called the hip hiker because glutes and the quadratus lumbar this is a step or a stair. placing one foot at the edge of going to be off just like this. going to take that side's hip ceiling as much as we can. hip and through the pelvis. As glutes across the hip engage lumborum, the QL muscle that into the lower back towards the pretty much feel this from the towards the hips. Go to a point hold this for about five this 10 to 15 times but if it bit more energy, try to in another set or two. So, if to the next level, what you do your heel towards the floor as it touch, just let it hover going to feel is a deep stretch quadratus lumborum muscle going kind of get a two for with this one. So, give that whatever you do on one side, repeat to keep everything in balance. called the clamshell bridge and going to help target the core, What you're going to do is lie a floor. Take your feet, gently take your knees and just wing can until you feel a light inner part of the thigh that the hips. What you're going to your core muscles it's kind of your stomach how you tense up the spine and then you want to possible to help engage those take my hands put them off to from here is just simply lift ceiling as much as you can straight line from your knees if you're unable to get into or weakness like you can only you can hopefully over time you flexibility to get in this feel the core lower back the everything start to activate about five seconds relax take a build into it just a little bit but if it feels like you have a challenge yourself by throwing exercises help, please support video a like and maybe any comments or questions, get back to you as soon as I