- The chicken broth is a pantry staple. It adds depth of flavor to It's also the backbone of savory classics, like risotto and gravy. But there are seemingly So which one should you buy? Let's put it to the taste. (funky upbeat music) Welcome to &quot;The Taste Test,&quot; where our team goes above and so you can make smart Today is all about chicken broth. I conducted this taste test and learned a lot about chicken broth during my search for the The vast majority of chicken broth is sold as liquid in one-quart boxes. There are also two other common formats that both require Bouillon, which is powdered or cubed and concentrate, which has a We'll get to which of these you should or shouldn't buy in a bit, but it's also important to In our research over the years, we learned something Almost every chicken broth starts off as a thick broth concentrate made by big food manufacturers you've probably never heard of. These big companies hire food scientists to customize each broth concentrate to their clients' specifications. Then they ship the like College Inn and for supermarket shelves. Many people wonder what the difference is between broth and stock. Most manufacturers, use them interchangeably, and so do we. Basically in the store, broth To make liquid broth, large and bones are cooked in After that, other ingredients like vegetables are added for flavor. You may also find tomato paste and turmeric used as ingredients to give the broth more color. For texture, you may find flour or potato starch used as thickeners. Bouillon is made by dehydrating and milling it into powder. Oftentimes, hydrogenated fat is added to amp up the richness of and mimic homemade broth floating on top. Packaging and shelf life are Liquid broth will only last three to four days after opening. It'll also last about three But one jar of Better Than Bouillon contains the equivalent and lasts about two years So that's the rundown of how boxed broth and concentrate are made. But there's a lot more that we learned when we tasted the leading brands. Let's put our test to the taste with five brands from Joining me for tasting today is Reviews Team's own Lisa McManus. Lisa, thanks for joining us. - Thank you for having me. - Do you have any strong - Well, you know I have strong But years ago, I did do one of our earlier chicken broth tastings, there was some that were really terrible and some that were great. So I'm really curious to know - Well, today's your lucky day. We're doing shots of broth. - Okay. Not exactly my - [Valerie] We'll start with broth A. - Cheers. Chicken broth! (laughs) Okay, I have thoughts. I don't know about you, but mine had a lot of almost that just... You know, it isn't really ideal. It tastes like it's powdered. Has a very strong flavor that isn't necessarily like It tastes commercial, I guess. It has little green flecks but also little fat globules that are sort of floating on the top, and you can see them stuck to the side. So it is not a smooth experience, and it wasn't the most pleasant to drink. - I agree with you. It was salty. - And, you know, it was which isn't great. I mean, it's kind of thin and watery at the same time, somehow. And so that one is Knorr. - [Lisa] Oh! - The bouillon powder, which our tasters didn't like as much. We recommend it, but, you because we simply didn't and we also didn't like It had little bits of floating herbs, and it was not the most appetizing thing. - Okay. I would agree with that. - Let's try sample B. - [Lisa] Okay. - What do you think? - It's clear, and it has It's not fluorescent like some of these. But it's very mild, to me, and has like a little bit of a funky note, Like a sort of, I don't know, chicken bone kind of flavor to - I thought it was pretty bad, honestly. - Okay. I was being nice. It wasn't that good. (laughs) - Yeah, it has some, like, old bones- - Old bones, yeah! - Yep, yep, yep. - Not that I intentionally taste old bones on a regular basis. - Right! (laughs) and it had a tomato, that was a little weird. - Well, kind of like onion skins, right? Not even onions. It was like kind of this - Exactly. - [Valerie] Exactly. So that one is the - Oh, okay. I kind of expected more from Progresso, so I'm disappointed. (laughs) - Yeah! Though it does say it's reduced sodium, it actually has a higher amount of sodium than some of our other - Wow! - Yes. You see that sometimes, though. The reduced sodium product is only in relation to Not in relation to, like, amount that you can have in a in a food. So it's only reduced compared to if they don't But, like you said, it than other brands, which is weird. - So our tasters also They said it had &quot;fishy&quot; notes, it had &quot;lingering acidic&quot; It's kind of bright. It does lend some &quot;bright&quot; flavors to the risotto that we made. So, the Progresso is which is the lowest rating we give. - Yeah, I would not or whatever I was making at home. It just doesn't have the right So, I agree with our tasting panel. - Shall we move on to C? - Yes! This one has a very vivid color. It looks like Gatorade. (laughs) Hope it tastes better. It's pretty salty, but it also It actually tastes like chicken. So it's like super chicken with salt, which is not entirely You can always dilute it a little more. I kind of like it. - Yeah, I thought it was So that one is the Better Than Bouillon! - [Lisa] Yay! Okay. - Which is our best buy choice because it's such a thick concentrate that you reconstitute it and you get a jar of these, you get 38 cups of Isn't that great? - It is really great. And actually, I use that one at home because I can keep it in my fridge, and if I need chicken And I will sometimes dilute depending on how I'm using it. But it's great to have that convenience. It can live in your fridge a long time, and you're always ready. I don't always have a and I haven't always made - Our tasters totally They thought this was a that reminded some of them and &quot;Campbell's chicken noodle soup.&quot; - I would agree with that. And also, given that this and this is a bouillon paste, this one dissolved a lot I mean, it didn't taste reconstituted, it tasted like it was a liquid broth. This one tasted reconstituted. It tasted powdery and granular. So, I definitely see why we like that one. - Absolutely. I totally agree. Let's move on to broth D. - Okay. It's got an interesting Looks like apple juice. It definitely does not Yeah. - What does it taste like? - (laughs) It's kind of watery, Like, it doesn't have a ton of flavor, but what there is is not great. I just thought it was a little but, like, a little off somehow. It didn't really taste like chicken. I'm not crazy about that. I personally wouldn't use that one. - Yeah, people weren't in our tasting. So that one is Zoup! - It looks so homemade - Yeah, we were kind of surprised by how it did in our tasting as well. Because it came in a glass jar, we thought it was definitely somewhat kind of more of a gourmet and it is more expensive in our lineup as well. So it had carrot juice. - Okay. in the chicken broth, our They thought it was pretty one note, and it had a &quot;burnt&quot; flavor. It also tainted our risotto bright yellow, which wasn't the most appetizing thing. - Yeah, it is a really orangey color. Definitely, you can see the carrots there. - Yeah, a lot of us compare - (laughs) Okay! I didn't even get the butter. I just got the water and But okay. - So the Zoup! was not recommended at all. - Okay. go near them. - No. No Zoup! Okay. - Yeah. I like that one. It's kind of mild and delicate, which that's what you want Tastes like chicken. It's clear. I mean, it's a little cloudy, but it doesn't have, like, It has a nice, pleasant flavor. It wouldn't overwhelm the dish, and it doesn't taste fake to me. Like, I think this one This tastes more like real chicken broth. So I like that one. - Yeah, that one tasted - Yeah. that has a lot of artificial flavors, and it definitely tastes like Or used to make at home. So that one is the Swanson chicken stock. Tasters thought it was It has a lot of &quot;chicken flavors&quot; and &quot;good balance of salt&quot; and savory and chicken flavors in it. We really liked it so much that we awarded the Swanson - Well, that's great. - Here are the official results Swanson and Swanson in the highly recommended category, followed by Better Than Bouillon in the recommended category. It's our best buy. Pacific Foods is also recommended. Tasters like its chickeny flavor. Knorr bouillon powder and College Inn are both in the recommended Kitchen Basics, Zoup!, Kettle &amp; Fire, and Progresso are not recommended. We wouldn't buy these at all. We also have a few good First, for Better Than Bouillon, some people add a little bit of the paste to introduce more flavor to their stir fry without adding moisture. - Ooh, I've got one. The packages, when they these boxes, the way to get and splattering is to rather than on the bottom and it will pour smoothly - Lisa, this has been great! I can do shots of chicken - Yeah, it was really fun! I enjoyed it. But let's mix in a little Some of these are kind of salty. - So, what's your favorite chicken broth? How do you usually use it at home? Let us know in the comments. - Also, be sure to like this video, click the bell for notifications, and head over to AmericasTestKitchen.com for more reviews of your - Thank you for watching &quot;The Taste Test,&quot; and we'll see you next time.