For much of its history, the with safety. The Swedish brand has innovation. It has often been the across the industry and for a long quite a bit further than competitors to a car. The trouble for Volvo is priority for consumers and automakers alike automotive history. Technology has improved,r egulations have catching up and are touting It's getting tougher for Volvo to Since it was taken over by the been steadily hammering out a new, competitor to German brands such Now it is also making a hybrid vehicles. So far, it seems to have worked. Volvo has frequently hit record levels years. In July of 2019, for example, first half year sales. But the carmaker in 2019 began resulting from an ongoing global trade cars. In late 2018, Volvo abandoned over the same concerns. And Volvo is up against some far competitors in its push This is an expensive Safety has been one of Volvo's and the company has a long, One of its best known innovations is it today, which is nearly universal in cars other countries around the world. The three-point seatbelt held a few two-point lap belts, which had been Three-point seatbelts secured both the upper passenger in a vehicle, preventing the into the dashboard from the waist up Volvo also introduced the world's first seat in 1964. The company was the first to introduce the 1990s. Volvo created its own renowned whiplash appropriately whips. Volvo was an early leader in technology. It also created its own In my observation, I think Volvo is a paid a lot of attention to safety. And even today, the corporation says that we will see that Apart from these innovations, the company distinguished it as a brand, passengers. In the 1990s, Volvo, Benz, pushed industry groups such as the certain types of crashes the company attention in tests. Volvo continued to build cars that even though they The company was ahead of the Roll the calendar forward several years and overlap crash test and we find that that they had done back in the that would offer not only good but also the small overlap crash. So Volvo products were among the first crash test for us, where some of had had access to the same information sort of ignored that crash condition without with our crash test ratings. But safety has become more of a groups of customers who have One such group is women. More than 60 percent of car purchases are influenced by them, according to And a survey from Kelley Blue Book women car buyers than it is to men. Automakers have taken notice, and while regarded, there is just not the same rest that there used to be. If there is a gap, it's much smaller than for sure the attention that our and the changes that have The government's own efforts toward automakers to step up their And I think the gaps are not IIHS names vehicles from several manufacturers list, including lower priced cars from So absolutely has a reputation So she Volvo would say the question getting more safety today with a And the truth is, is that while seatbelts and a lot of crumbles owns Today, we're going to get a great vehicles. So you really don't have to go and leading edge at safety anymore. Now, Volvo aims to distinguish When Chinese automaker Geely bought Volvo degree of skepticism Geely was a rather small Chinese automaker Chinese buyers. Volvo was thought to be on its last Geely paid $1.8 billion for the carmaker, a billion Ford had paid After the deal was done, Geely Chairman ought to try competing more But he also stressed that Geely So far, that plan has worked out entire lineup, focusing heavily on understated luxury features The brand has played off its cabins around the theme of Scandinavian light and colors and The brand's sleek new aesthetic is departure from the classic boxy and Volvo had long been known for. That said, Volvo's name is In Kelley Blue Book's brand watch first among luxury brands for safety. It's the only category where it leads, car company is as serious about protecting past. It said in March of 2019 based on data compiled by its traffic 40 years. The project is called the EVA for short. Part of the purpose of the initiative among different populations, particularly Which Volvo said results in part from modelled on men's bodies. As you know that everything started related to the safety belt. When we invited the solution, we everyone. If you find something that give it out for free. To the learn. And a got project was related the tests that we have done with female how they are structured and So I would say all of those The brand also has a stated goal injuries from new Volvo cars by 2020. to achieve this end, it's It said in 2019 it will limit speeds of 112 miles per hour and it will early 2020 onward. We had long discussions Driving a car it should be fun. You should be able to relax because the support you. But we also know that when fast, it is tougher to And really, if we are very, very You need to kind of move fast need to have that maximum speed. And I think that suits very, And also, we talked about the typical asking for and their I would say it fits quite well. CEO Hakan Samuelsson said the move could Brother, but added that if it can help But perhaps Volvo's most dramatic transformation comprised entirely of electric Even though the company is still touting transformation into an entirely electrified more attention. Volvo has said it plans vehicles from 2019 onward. It is aiming for half of its global the other half to be By that time, Volvo wants to have 1 road. Volvo is pitching its move as regulations around the world, including key as well as a natural continuation well-being. Even a recent advertising legacy while promoting its new But developing electric power trains requires auto sales slow and companies find disputes. Volvo arguably benefits tremendously Geely. Much of Volvo's sales growth came have been combining operations in However, Volvo is still a small fish luxury brands it is competing with So entering in the luxury market, especially German is definitely tricky. Because you're up against competitors have are extremely well known. Audi, Mercedes, BMW all have deep All have really So it seems to me that I mean, they announced that all their electrified in some way, whether it's fully electrified. And perhaps that is, you know, in differentiate themselves amongst the German get out German, the Germans. So trying to go a different approach, grab possible. Maybe something they're They're trying to find And it seemed as if they put While Volvo sold 642,253 vehicles 2018, the BMW brand sold 2,125,026. Volvo is also going head to head and the continuously buzzed about But if it takes carbon emissions as could end up engineering something three-pointed seatbelt. It's a reason why these brand is growing customers. And that is a combination of you now focus on on the environment. And I think that the It's very good for our employees and that we're doing the right things But I would say it's the total, everything just have safety in the front extremely good. But we really would like the car. That's the reason