- Venus is the world next door. It's a planet with a radius just 5% less than that of the Earth and likely forge with as that of our own home planet. If you walked along the surface, the gravity would be And with its near-circular orbit around the Sun just it truly seems like our planetary sibling, a beautiful shining light in our morning and evening skies. So close that it feels like we could just reach out and touch it. And yet somehow, something something so transformative that Venus is now a With a surface temperature or 860 degrees Fahrenheit, it's sufficient to melt lead or even zinc. The atmospheric pressure out of Earth's surface, enough It's a desiccated dry of residual water vapor in its atmosphere. Even the stars are lost to this world due to a thick veil of It is a merciless, perilous, toxic planet that is so murderous to that the idea of human - It is evil there that does not sleep. It's a barren wasteland riddled with fire and ash and dust. The very air you breathe Not with 10,000 men could - The full story of Venus such as the unidirectional nature of time, but we have been trying to stitch together what few clues we have to try and better understand As we discover more and more Earth-sized planets we increasingly wonder, are we revealing Earth or Venus analogs? How could you tell the difference? And what exactly triggers In a way, we're incredibly lucky to have a planet like Venus so close by. The universe has given us a gift, an opportunity to study a similar, yet tormented version using in situ measurements, a chance to figure out Venus has been a mystery Its surface is totally due to its thick cloud cover, giving us a whole pass to freely speculate about its nature without concern. Author Stephen Gillard once described it as a cosmic Rorschach test, often imagined as a a feted swampland inhabited Nobody really imagined how much worse it truly was made the first successful and then reported the and pressures that we all now know. A colleague of mine, that if we did not have a we would not dare to imagine it. I can't help but feel like to deliberately tell us something a dark lesson that we would've Between 1961 and '65, the Soviet Union made a to get a mission of their own to Venus, but what they lacked in fortune, they made up for in perseverance. From 1967 up to the breakup 15 largely successful Soviet missions helped transform our understanding of this mysterious planet. 10 of these achieved soft although unfortunately, only and thus now, we only have six images of the Venusian surface ever taken. Six photos, that's it, and only The images are yellowed from and reveal what appears to be Sadly, each lander quickly suffered under the extreme surface conditions with a record holder being Venera 13, which lasted for a poultry 127 minutes. However, that was 40 years ago. And in that time, technology so maybe we could last longer now. At NASA Glenn where they have the world's largest Venus simulation chamber, it is thought that a modern lander could possibly even functioning driving across the I for one would sorely love to see new high-resolution images, sounds and videos from this The missions thus far have We have sampled the atmosphere We've imaged the surface with radar to penetrate through the clouds. And we've performed of the upper atmosphere What has been revealed is a world that is both paradoxically similar and alien to that of our own. Before we get into that, to thank the wonderful sponsor of today's video, that is incogni.com. If you think that Venus the internet has sadly littered with companies harvesting and aggregating your personal I'm talking phone numbers, home addresses, employment history, and even Incogni is a subscription that fights back for you, for your personal information, and then persistently be deleted until they comply with the law. Log into the Incogni home screen and you can see just how many databases are harvesting your personal information and the progress of each My phone used to ring off to such a degree that I basically gave In another case, a complete stranger called me up at my home office and read out to me my home address. I don't know about you, but I am sick of this crap and we shouldn't have to put up with this. If you want to fight then head to incogni.com/coolworlds to get an exclusive 60% Once again, that's in Venus might be a nightmare, Now, back to the video. Let's start with volcanism. Like our own home planet, volcanism appears to be a common feature on the planet Venus. Radar imaging has revealed thousands of volcanoes scattered across the surface, many familiar looking shield but also many strange These pancakes are about and two kilometers tall, with a dome shape implying the eruption of highly viscous lava, almost like honey that spread out evenly in all directions. We also see Corona, such as this one here These are cases where magma doesn't quite break through the surface, but instead pushes up against the crust, lifting and bulging against the surface. The convection of magma beneath the crust can also push and stretch the surface, forming linear stretch marks and ridges tens of kilometers across However, a difference with the Earth is that these volcanoes are haphazardly distributed On Earth, volcanism along the boundaries especially mid-ocean ridges, but here, the distribution This has led to the prevailing theory that Venus indeed has some kind of low but rather than having its surface fractured up into a series of here instead, we have a single The other major evidence comes from the study First, it has to be noted that impacts smaller than the kilometer appear to rarely penetrate their way through the thick atmosphere and presumably must burn Nevertheless, we should still expect to see plenty of large craters However, unlike say, Mercury dead worlds are washed with Here, we have a much The observed number of craters can be used to crudely estimate the age of the surface to be around 0.3 to 1.0 billion years old, and this appears to be true This has led many to hypothesize that some kind of global resurfacing event must have occurred in her past. Now, whilst we might naively assume this to be just a single bad day for Venus, it could equally have been during this period. What exactly happened here has been the subject of great debate, especially in the context One possibility is that mix its way through the prevents that heat from and so energy builds up we have a catastrophic As if Venus couldn't be any this would make Mount The resurfacing event makes our challenge of trying to reveal since any geological evidence is wiped clean during such an event. Perhaps the only clues left to are not found within the ground, but rather are found within the air. So, what do we know here? Venus' atmosphere is 96.5% carbon dioxide, which of course is what leads to its extreme greenhouse effect. In fact, if you calculate of Venus without an atmosphere, you'd get something like 328 Kelvin. But the greenhouse effect bumps this up to a Now, at 92 bars, which means 92 times Earth's there is an awful lot of carbon dioxide in In fact, if you calculate it all up, you end up with a staggering 480 million gigatons of the stuff. Whereas for Earth's atmosphere, it's only about 3,200 gigatons. So, what gives? If these plants were born so similarly, where did all of this Almost certainly, it was from outgassing, which means that the planet The Earth too is doing this, but unlike Venus, our carbon is being constantly drawn back down out of the air via which then die, fossilize, and eventually subducted If it wasn't for these processes, we would probably find to Venus since our sacrificial reservoir of CO2 is actually estimated to be similar to that of the Look, in case it somehow burning carbon stores of oil Now, along with CO2, Venus' atmosphere also contains nitrogen, just like the Earth does. But here, it comprises just 3% of the atmosphere versus 78% for us. But even 3% of such a adds up to a lot, and in fact, it adds up to that of the modern So, Venus really did seem to start out with the same basic and yet somehow the story must have diverged from that of our own. Now, in what I've described Venus seems to have a stagnant lid. And whilst that means that yes, it could be volcanically active, it must be far less active and that means less (blows) outgassing. Yet somehow, it managed to accumulate an impressive 92 bars of which is actually pretty In fact, recent modeling show that it's impossible for Venus to ever outgas this much CO2 if it had a stagnant lid the whole time. Instead, they proposed that Venus must have had at some point in its and the planet transitioned to this stagnant lid modus operandi. Taking the modern Venusian levels of nitrogen, CO2, and surface pressure, they estimate that this had an age of somewhere between whereas today, it's of That's admittedly a pretty big window, but it means that some kind did indeed occur in Venus' past and one that predates the from roughly half a billion years ago. The atmosphere contains further Precise measurements by and especially NASA's Pioneer orbiter, reveal the peculiar observation appears heavily enriched in deuterium. Deuterium is a heavier so you find it in anything most notably within water, H2O. On Earth, deuterium is pretty rare. Only 3 out of every 20,000 but on Venus, it's 120 times The most likely explanation is water loss. Water vapor in the atmosphere with ultraviolet radiation that splits or dissociates water The hydrogen is sufficiently light that it can actually and then is lost forever. Deuterated water also does the same thing, but of course the deuterium being twice as heavy is far less likely So, if a planet has boiled that should yield and enhance Now, reverse engineering Venus must have once but estimates vary from of that of Earth's oceans, all the way up to something What we know for sure is that this process must have happened prior to the global resurfacing event, since we see no hints of It's interesting to speculate could have precipitated the transition from plate tectonics to a stagnant lid, as water helps reduce making them more plastic and malleable. Is this water loss I mean, the simple fact that Venus is closer means it receives about double which is the flux striking However, three facts complicate and could perhaps keep an First, the Sun itself is due to the gradual core contraction. This means that 3 billion years ago, Venus would've been far less irradiated just 40% more than the modern Earth. Second, modern Venus is of which means it reflects back into space versus Finally, Venus has a spinning backwards relative to its orbit once every 243 days. That's even longer than its year. This again implies yet another most likely some kind of impact that struck the planet However, that below might Although let me know that that this could also be explained by tidal interactions with the Sun, complicated by Venus' In any case, climate modeling has revealed that slower rotating planets generally stay cooler as a result of cloud Put these three facts together and perhaps there is still some hope for Venus having once been habitable. Michael Way and his when they did just this and showed that Venus could indeed sustain stable liquid water possibly as late as the However, it should be noted that Way assumes one bar of nitrogen with only trace amounts of Now, if Venus was like this then it becomes trickier to of modern CO2 that have also whilst being dominated Perhaps this global resurfacing event was cataclysmic enough that was able to dump out this huge volume But maybe we are just So, personally, I'm a little bit doubtful that Venus was truly but the excess deuterium that at least a shallow ocean did exist on Venus at It's interesting to ponder of Venusian life if it did start there Could life have adapted to the changing of Venusian conditions fast enough to possibly even still be there today? In 2020, scientific headlines were made when Jane Greaves and colleagues reported the detection of phosphine in the Venusian atmosphere. This is a molecule that's produced by anoxic bacteria here on Earth, and interestingly, there is no for its production under Yet, more than molecule is unstable. Ultraviolet radiation should which means something must be making it. Have we just discovered life? We discussed this story at and it remains as controversial A series of papers have analyzing and reanalyzing and rebuttals of the phosphine detection. Perhaps we'll go through but for now, suffice to say The data is being pushed and if there is phosphine to be much less than Fortunately, future of Venus missions such as DAVINCI promised and finally settle this debate. Even if confirmed, there will still be since Truong and colleagues have suggested simple volcanism could plausibly explain If something is living on The surface conditions here are so extreme that even One possible solution is to but instead live in the clouds. Between about 50 to 60 the temperature is consistent and the pressure is similar too. Indeed, one could imagine a bubble filled with Earth-like atmosphere here as a future outpost for humanity, as it would be naturally But unfortunately, this habital altitude would place you right in the which pose an additional The most basic issue here is water. All life on Earth requires and if this is true of then there's a big problem, because what little water intermixed with sulfuric somewhere between 75 and 95%. This greatly diminishes what which you can think of as sort of how accessible Pure water has an activity of one and saturated brine has Even in pure brine, life but it is thought that the limit is about 0.6 for all known organisms. However, in the Venusian would be below 0.1, to imagine what could Yet more, crucial biochemical compounds are simply unstable in sulfuric acid, things such as proteins, DNA, Perhaps life has adapted to coat itself with some sort of sulfur shell to protect itself against by sulfuric acid droplets. But even so, water-based life will still desperately The context, the conditions than the driest place on Earth, the Atacama Desert on a summer's midday. Venus is a puzzle wrapped inside an enigma, There's so much we don't its atmosphere, and especially its past. Whilst Venus has been shunned a little bit in preference for Mars missions by NASA, the tide may now be turning later to be visiting Venus VERITAS will orbit Venus with high-resolution X-ray radar, promising 30 meter as well as mapping the gravity field and thermal emissivity, DAVINCI is another NASA mission that plans to probe the to precisely sample the and isotope ratios, as well as collect during its descent. And it's not just NASA. ESA is also getting on an orbiter that will perform imaging, polar imagery, radiometry, and as well as subsurface Maybe I'm being a little bit selfish here, but for me, DAVINCI is the mission that I most want to see happen to categorically resolve and to provide us beautiful photos of the enigmatic Venusian surface. As sometimes said, the Venus is the endpoint As stars gradually grow in luminosity, all habitat planets will into a runaway greenhouse state. The oceans evaporate, and that leads to more greenhouse warming, and soon, the whole gig is over. When we look at Venus, we are not just looking we are looking at our future. It's poignant then to ponder just how many Venuses might be out there. Billions upon billions of There may have been countless numbers of biospheres, organisms, that were effectively annihilated by their planet's transformation hospitable state into a All of those stories last, hidden under the thick atmospheres, or even worse, completely erased by volcanic outflows as if Venus is a haunting world. I find it both terrifying and beautiful, a lesson and a warning, alive and dead. But the truth is that if we are ever going to understand the abundance and the fate of life in the universe, we are going to have to venture to Venus. It's almost as if the cosmos as a gift whispering in our ear, go to Venus, but do so with caution. Perhaps I'll see you there. (gentle music) Thank you so much watching I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, be sure to like, share, subscribe, all the YouTube things. It really does make a difference. And if you really wanna help us out, you can become a donor the Cool Worlds Lab, right just like our latest supporter. That's Xinyu Yao. Thank you so much for your support, Xinyu. Until next time, guys, stay (gentle music)