The weather these days seems to be debating whether fall will bring winter or not... I did some shopping at IKEA after a long time. I'll mainly show you the good products^^ The first product I'm showing is the VALVARDAD drying rack. You can use it to place dishes on top after washing them. It doesn't have a drain function, but the edge is high so water doesn't overflow. It's a wooden coaster that was used as a coaster in the past, and I was using it next to the water purifier to place a cup on it. I was trying to change the cups to place them in more variety, but this one was perfect^^ It also happens to fit the length of the water purifier perfectly haha. The cups can be placed side by side without overlapping. You can place a variety of cups, from small cups to large mugs. Because the bottom is curved , you can store it hygienically even if there is some moisture left in the cup . Of course, it can also be used as a substitute for a dish drying rack. There is also a larger size of 52 You can place more dishes on the steel shelf, which is sold separately . In the case of a small size, if you place it on a steel shelf, you can place about 6 cups on it. When used as a dish drying rack, water does not drain out on its own, but it is simple and easy to maintain. I also purchased a new storage container and hand towel. Ikea towels are really cheap, but they are so thin that they quickly become frayed after being boiled a few times. However, because it is thin, the water dries quickly, so I was okay with it. It also has a hook so it's great to use in the kitchen. Originally, I mainly used IKEA products for kitchen hand towels. Previously, the hand towels were quite thick and had a good feel, but it is a shame that they are no longer sold. This Krama hand towel is really cheap and easy to use. The rings have different colors, so they can be used for different purposes or people. Since the price was the cheapest compared to the quantity, it was lost the fastest. It's fun to tear off the tags on IKEA fabric products...haha. When I don't have time, I just rip them all off by hand, but they tear easily I also bought a storage box to store hand towels. The size is perfect to store about 10 to 15 hand towels. I also purchased a UPPDATERA storage box of similar size. This one has a low front, so I think it will be easier to put it in the drawer and take things out. There are handles on both sides, making it easy to take out and put in. I plan to use both storage boxes by placing them on the sink. The living room sink is mainly used by children, so I often forget to change the towels every day; So, I'm trying to change the method of taking out hand towels and using them. There were many days when I forgot and didn't have any towels, but it's convenient to organize the towels in a pile, and the kids also really enjoy using them. It holds about 12 IKEA hand towels, but I think you could fit more. We are labeling them to help them get used to it. As more items are added to the sink, you need to organize the existing items. I store clean hand towels in the Coogis storage box, and I plan to put used hand towels in this Updatera storage box. The outlet part is recessed, so it fits perfectly on one side of the low storage box. ^^ By attaching it like this, the children can use it independently, so they like it and have fun, and it is convenient because they protect it well. ^^ The dishwashing brush that I had been thinking about buying or not every time I went to Ikea. I bought it. I like the stainless steel handle and the brush head made of wood and agave leaf fiber, all made of eco-friendly materials. As a result, it may be less durable than a plastic dishwashing brush or scrubber , but I mainly washed dishes with a brush brush, so it was convenient and good. The brush head is made of wood and natural materials and needs to be replaced frequently, but replacement is relatively easy and simple. There are some dishes that are difficult to clean with a scrubber. Water bottle caps, airtight container lids, etc... Dishware with narrow or nooks that are difficult to reach with a scrub brush can be cleaned very easily with a dishwashing brush. It's great because you can clean more difficult places by using the length of the brush bristle. When cleaning a water bottle that only contains water , remove the rubber packing and all accessories and clean them once every two or three times . I find that washing dishes using a brush puts less strain on my wrists. You can also easily clean the lid of an airtight container. Drain the dishwashing brush and store it. It has a hole so you can hang it using a hook. The size is awkward to hang inside the sink, so I hang it separately using hook clips, etc. My kitchen doesn't have a good place to hang it, so I used Daiso clips to hang it on the window frame. It's not bad since it's fixed to the window frame. These days, I'm just using it on the drying rack where I put dish detergent.^^ Warm gray color. This is an armrest storage pocket made of tone felt. I bought it because it had a gray tone that goes well with anything and the price was reasonable. There are two large storage spaces at the top and bottom, and the bottom pocket has an elastic band for storing small items. Our sofa also happens to be a gray tone, so I think it will match well. It would be nice to fix it by bending it in a zigzag pattern all the way to the bottom of the sofa seat, but that wasn't possible due to the structure of the sofa in our house , so I just inserted it between the armrest and the seat. It's nice to have a place to put books and other small items, so you don't have to leave them lying around while reading on the sofa. If you have trouble finding a place to put the remote control every time you use it, be sure to use the sofa armrest storage box^^ It's a size that fits children's storybooks well :) However, keep in mind that larger storybooks won't fit well! I also looked at tablet devices and summarized them here. It would be nice if it came in more colors. There is a rubber belt inside the pocket so you can store small items neatly. It can be installed on a sofa as well as a bed like this. Insert it between the mattress and the frame so that it is securely fixed. You can neatly store books you read before going to sleep, cell phones, etc. I have a 10-year-old KALLAX lathe at home. Every time I go to Ikea, I have to buy a storage box that fits perfectly on the shelf, but if I buy more than one, the price goes up, so I put it off for the next time and ended up buying two of the cheapest DRONA storage boxes first. Currently, I am using the KALLAX shelf in the dressing room really well, changing its purpose every time I move house. I store bags and other miscellaneous items in the dressing room, but it is annoying to see all the mess every time I pass by I plan to organize them in the DRONA storage box I purchased first in the upper two compartments. I put the summer hats and the sewing box and stored the extra bag straps. Looking at it like this, it looks like the KALAX shelf is quite yellowed haha. There is a space at the top of the storage box where you can put your hand, so it's easy to put in and take out :) I've been working at a bag company for a while, so there are still some bags that I haven't organized yet. First of all, I will keep my Tetris well and organize them when I have time.. I guess I will have to buy more the next time I go to IKEA I think it would also be good for storing small appliances that are not often used in the kitchen. Just check the shelf height carefully and use it for storage. I think it would fit perfectly in my house if I raised the shelf one shelf higher. I always use IKEA products for sealing clips. It's really good value for money and the color is pretty^^ Don't throw away the BEVARA sealing clip box, but use it for storage. You can organize the sealing tongs neatly. The generous size is great for sealing snack bags or frozen foods. Even if you use it for several years, the lock function is great so you can use it for a long time. As long as you don't lose it, you can use it semi-permanently! This is HULDHET, a Chinese spatula that I use every day. It is made of walnut wood, so it is hard and durable. Clean with baking soda both when using for the first time and every time. Although using wooden cookware is cumbersome, it is safe because it is the most natural material, and there is no damage to the frying pan. Rinse under running water and dry. It is better to wipe off the moisture with a dry cloth. I am replacing a product that I have been maintaining and using for over a year. The new product I purchased is definitely smooth. Since it is a wooden product, the replacement cycle is quick. Because it has a round design, it is a truly useful item when frying dishes SKOLAST food waste strainer. It has good drainage holes and is non-slip. It's great for removing food waste, but it's a great item that can be used in many more ways! It's also great for use with kitchen detergent, scrubbers, etc. It would also be nice to use it in the bathroom with hand sanitizer, soap, and towels. There are adequate holes so water drains easily. It's also good for storing simple dishes like cups. It would be a good idea to rinse the cup after drinking only water and put it on the cup :) It is also suitable for discarding water from ramen or boiling sausage or broccoli. Even if the contents spill out, you don't have to worry because the strainer catches it. I am using it like this. It is used for rinsing and drying recycled materials such as plastic. The space was too narrow to put up a dish drying rack, but it was really nice to use it like this. This is the end of the IKEA products we are introducing today. Thank you for watching the video today