- Good morning, I hope It's Mark Wiens. I'm in Karachi, which is a mega city in Pakistan along the Arabian Sea. This city has some extreme And so, today I'm meeting up with my friend Ali and Shahrooz, and they're gonna take me on We're gonna eat some This is going to be the ultimate street food tour of Karachi. (rhythmic music) We just arrived at the first air crowd. This place is called Javed Nihari. We're here to eat a very specialty. How are you this morning? - It's called nihari. It's like a meat stew. It's so rich, and this in Karachi to eat it. There's a couple different So, he first scoops on the meat, then he scoops on the thick, rich stew, and then some of the red Everything here is just they're like podiums where they serve the nihadi, but then also the bread production. The star of the hill is the Sheebow, which is a type of bread then the really interesting and then I think that's just Just sprinkles it with water, and then this is the finished product. That's unique. We're all here. We're all ready. - This is fun. for the day. The Karachi street food tour, the ultimate street food tour. Let's tear into the bread first, and this is that special bread, pull, and, yeah, that's amazing. I've never seen water sprinkled on bread. Now, the nihari, this is the with the meat, a little bit of ... Oh, it's just ultra tender. Oh man, and you wanna kind that stew along with that Desi Ghee. Oh, wow. Wow, you can feel the chilis in that, and then the bread, it is like pastry dough, and then cinnamony-infused taste to it. You gotta sprinkle it and fresh chili. This is one of the joys of eating nihari. (rhythmic music) With the lime, that gives and the fresh chilis. That is a generous chunk of the cow brain. Oh, look at the creaminess of that. It looks like cottage cheese. You've got creaminess, on top of richness, on top of richness, on top of creaminess. It's so creamy. This is one of the hardiest breakfasts you could possibly have in the world. (rhythmic music) That is not a dish you wanna eat every day because it's so rich, but once in a while, that will just satisfy Thank you very much. (speaking in foreign language) - One of the greatest things in Karachi is that it's such a mega city, and it attracts people. People live here from all of Pakistan, and so you'll of Pakistan within Karachi. (rhythmic music) Where are we heading next? - [Ali] Burns Road. - Burns Road? Okay, and Burns Road is really known for its extreme food, right? (upbeat music) We just made it to Burns Road, and it's kind of quiet it's a Sunday, but one and one thing you'll love They kind of look like They've been well used, they're so artistic. It's such a culture of the buses. It's so cool to see, and you can just see so (speaking in foreign language) Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Oh, yeah, wow, this place is just bumping. - Hey. - Hey, how are you? - How are you? Pay for travel, you're - This one is the Arabian Paratha, and yeah, it's similar all across this entire region. He flattens out the that mixture, and then and into the oil to fry. It's shallow fried. I love the one-handed egg the spatula, and just like So, he just cut it in four pieces. It's kind of like an entire within the fry bread. Oh, it's hot. (speaking in foreign language) Thank you. We didn't have any chairs just brought a chair over. (speaking in foreign language) - [Shahrooz] Thank you, man. Thank you very much. - Okay, convenient. - [Ali] Did you taste? - I'm getting literally like whole ... It's how they leave the cumin and then, you get a whole It's so good. This is actually quite Arabic, but it's very mild in spices. - [Mark] And he's serving tea, right? Nice. (speaking in foreign language) (laughing) (rhythmic music) - He is performing for us. He's just moving into the road to dance. (rhythmic music) Wow, that is sweet. Thank you, man. Nice to meet you. Thank you. - [Ali] This is Matka kulfi. - [Mark] Matka. - Matka Kulfi. Kulfi is like ice cream, because they're made and frozen into little clay, little cones. I think I got the pistachio part. Oh, wow, this actually is great. - [Shahrooz] Is it the - [Ali] Yup. - Like reduced-down, kind of Let's trade, I gotta try that saffron. Oh, wow, you can really taste the saffron. It does have a really That was really good ice cream eating experience, Kulfi. The highlight is just eating it out of the little clay cups, cones. Rabri. - The Rabri here. okay, there's another thing in It's called Rabri. We're gonna order one here. It's all milk based. You can see kind of like some strands, kind of like some strands in it as well. Oh, wow. It really has like a but, at the same time, has in the middle of that like condensed milk, yogurty sweetness. - Of course, I was It's like sweet curds. - Rabri Shireen. - Rabri Shireen. (rhythmic music) That one is kind of like a sweet yogurt with little jellies in it. We're just walking past, and saw the giant copper pot. He's serving biryani, and we just decided to get a small plate just to try. We're all just gonna sample it, but this is such a cool (speaking in foreign language) (rhythmic music) And he conveniently has Just try that rice first. It's such a long grain, and what I can taste, it tastes like it has a What's really good to me about this is that dry lemon flavor, of this biryani. And this is just such a cool spot. I mean, you see the big, copper metal pan, people are hanging around. This is a great spot. (speaking in foreign language) Very good. (speaking in foreign language) (rhythmic music) (speaking in foreign language) Liaquatabad (speaking in foreign language) Okay, that's the name of this area. (rhythmic music) This area is so congested, and there's so much action going on. I mean, it's one of those is exciting, and something is fascinating everywhere you look, the energy, the excitement. Their shit's called Nali biryani. Now, Nali is the bone marrow in biryani. We already actually sampled this morning, but this is Nali biryani, so it's bone marrow biryani. He just took like shovel these are beef bones, and dumped them into the spices which are already simmering. It just like shattered Wow, that smells unbelievably good. (speaking in foreign language) And now, that's just gonna simmer away until the rice is fully cooked, and everything has mingled So they're making the but then you walk down the road here, and this is where they're serving it. (speaking in foreign language) As he's dishing it out, with he hits the spoon on the side of the pot. He hits the side of that pan so fast, like my eye cannot even follow it. I'm like trying to film, I mean, I'm looking in my actually follow him hitting It's something to quickly mention as they dish out our biryani. There are two spots. They both have, I believe, but both serve the Nali biryani. The more well known spot is but they happen to be closed on Sunday, but then they built this but this place, what's - [Ali] Mudri Biryani. - [Mark] Mudri Biryani. - [Ali] Mudri Ali Biryani. - I think they're serving our plate. (speaking in foreign language) It's not even a plate, but but, wow, the heaviness (laughing). Before we empty out the bone marrow, let's just try that You can see it's fluffy. There's chilis in here. We saw those chilis floating (laughing) Oh, the black pepper in there. That's the first spice that I notice. Hassam is gonna help us with the bones. Oh, there it comes. (rhythmic music) - [Shahrooz] Dude, I can't - I'm just amazed at how That just splattered all over the biryani, and they're still getting more. Just like pure, butter of that bone, and we still got one more. Okay, I gotta try it. It's just like dripping with oil. (laughing) - It works. - Like a worm just fell out. - Gotta hit it hard, man. - Gotta hit it harder? Rice is kind of flying. I can hear pieces rattling in there. Oh, there it comes. My fist is getting sore, but I guarantee, this is one of the most fun meals you will ever have in your life. I'm kind of like just - [Ali] Wow. - More is coming out. He's looking at (laughing). (speaking in foreign language) (laughing) And you can see the whole spices. There's cinnamon, and I noticed the star anise in there too, but we gotta make a marrow Let's go in, guys. - [Shahrooz] Oh, hello. It's still so hot. - [Mark] It's so delicate. Marrow bite. - [Men] Cheers. - No way. (laughing) - The marrow makes butter feel tough. That's how soft and melt going from solid to liquid on your tongue. I need a marrow chunk bite on that bite. (rhythmic music) - Biryani is one of my in the world. That is easily the best. It cannot be described how - [Mark] Ali, what did you think? - It was amazing, and I'm but I think marrow and biryani make a perfect, lethal combination. - Very best food, biryani in the league. - It's blown me away. I have a renewed sense We tried to pay. They would not accept payment. They wouldn't take money from Huge thank you to this spot. That is amazing biryani that Wipe the sweat and the marrow (laughing) That was a game changer, a biryani game changer in Karachi. (rhythmic music) (speaking in foreign language) Video. - You add this channel. - Yes, I will add it, I will add it. Great, nice to meet you. - [Young Man] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. - We are all Pakistani, - [Mark] Thank you. - Very much. - [Mark] Thank you. - Okay, see you. - Awesome, really, have a great day. - Thank you. - So many friendly people, and we had to actually stop to ask around because there's so many It's a maze back here, but the next dish is supposed to be somewhere around the corner that we're gonna try to find. (rhythmic music) - These are vegetable salad, and he puts masala on top of this. After having so much (speaking and biryani-- - [Mark] We need some vegetables. - [Ali] We need some vegetable. - And he is a master slicer. He chops up the cucumber. It's (chopping sound). He's a machine slicer, chopping skills, and what's in like a floral blooming shape. Street Karachi vegetable salad, it felt like the right thing we should do after eating that much We need some vegetables. (rhythmic music) He has some of the most I've every seen. That is what you call One more thing I just noticed, here on the cart, but This is a car wind screen, to hold the chopped The countertop is a windshield. This is a first for me. (rhythmic music) okay, let's try some of this salad. The plate is in the cart. Quite a few people surrounding us, but let's try this salad. - I got an onion and one of the cucumbers. The masala and the lime juice, and it is so incredibly fresh tasting. These carrots are almost red, so sweet. That combination of the of lime, though, that's what makes it. (speaking in foreign language) Amazing. (speaking in foreign language) That was one of the, by but what a man, what skills. Actually, we didn't even The place that we're going is actually right next door here, and you can here the clanking of the pan. (sizzling) But it's usually made and especially organs and brain, but this one is made with fish. The aromas, and the steams, off of that gridle, and serves it, like as soon as it's ready, he serves the entire thing Wow, this is next-level food. I think I got some chili smoke but this is the stall, this is the place, and then across the street, Hey. - [Mark] Hey, how are you? - [Mark] Nice to meet you. watching your video in the morning, and I was thinking how can I ... you're not coming to Pakistan. - [Mark] Thank you very much. - [Mark] Awesome to meet you. for me. - [Mark] Thank you, thank you. What is your name? - My name is Solmon, brother. - Alman. - Solmon. - Great, very nice to meet you. - I was watching your (speaking in foreign language) - We met the owner, He's like one of a kind here too. He's the only one that It's served with chapati, so before we dig into the extra chutney. (rhythmic music) Oh, wow. Oh, that's masterful because but then refried on the hot plate, it has this like crunch around it. - Unbelievably good. (laughing) - That's just like a Oh, look at that chutney, next bite. It looks like coriander and chilis, and you can smell the mint, It's like full of herbs, actually. You think it's just pure chili, but it's actually full of herbs. We got a refill. The ultimate bite, fish, on top of that, extra unbelievable chutney. That chutney, you could (rhythmic music) And one more shout out to the so friendly, so genuine. His cart is right in front. He walked over here, and gave just with a smile on his face, and just dropped it on our table, and he has such fresh vegetables. (rhythmic music) I could not be happier. One of the greatest herb (speaking in foreign language) Chutney is amazing. (laughing) (speaking in foreign language) That dish just blew my and that chutney, paired you will not go wrong. Karachi is just exceeding, blowing away my culinary expectations. Oh, first we're buying what? - We are buying Sherwanis. - Oh, yes. Okay, we're buying some clothes first. We're going shopping for clothes first, and then Ali has set up It's gonna involve some (rhythmic music) (rhythmic music) Nice to meet you. - [Mark] Thank you. - [Store Owner] Come again, - Start blogging, man. Start blogging. This may be one of the I have ever made in my life. I just feel like I'm floating. This has to be the most It's so breezy and airy, and the look we needed for the (rhythmic music) Step outside of the car and you can smell the buffaloes. This is Asia's biggest It's a colony because it's an entire city, and basically, every house, deals in buffaloes, raises buffaloes, then this is where a lot and one of the reasons I is because milk and dairy is so important. It's essential in Pakistan Wow, I think we're gonna milk the buffalo. Thank you for inviting us. I just stepped in some poo. Wow. (laughing) He just sprayed me in the face. (laughing) Wow, that is a new experience (laughing) (rhythmic music) In my ear. That milk is actually really good. That's as fresh as possible. That is a totally new experience. I have never had that kind of culinary experience in my life. The milk is so sweet, actually. Thank you for that. - You really have to squeeze. - [Mark] Are you getting it? - Yeah, but they're squeezing hard, man. (laughing) Dude, it's so sweet. He's squeezing hard, and that's such a technique. squeezing it. - [Shahrooz] But it's so sweet. - [Mark] Oh, yeah. - Wow, just get a little trickle. It's really hard. You gotta squeeze, your forearms. That's the freshest milk mustache you will ever have in your life. - And the buffalo colony. (rhythmic music) - We're gonna sit down here now in front of the buffalo colony, kind of relax, and I They're bringing out some fruit, but I think we might try some butter. A quick banana in the meantime. I think that fresh milk was (speaking in foreign language) This one is the fresh butter. - [Man In Background] Butter. (speaking in foreign language) - [Men] Yogurt. - Yogurt. Hook up some of the butter That's just unprocessed, pure butter. (rhythmic music) Wow. That is a mouthful of butter. It's so rich, but so pure tasting. Wow, wow. That is the best yogurt you'll ever have. It's sour, and that's it. There's also a vegetable dish, which I think this is just a bonus. I don't think this includes dairy, some kind of a local vegetable. (speaking in foreign language) Thank you. (speaking in foreign language) It's so good. (group chattering) It's rich and creamy, a little Thank you very much. Thank you. (speaking in foreign language) As we were leaving, they this colony, there's 700 to 800 That's a magnificent amount, but what's amazing is that It's an entire colony, and because every family just owns an amount, and has a little dairy farm. Huge thank you to Mr. Shakir and to Ali for setting it up. (rhythmic music) We experienced an ultimate It took three hours. We were stuck in a traffic it took to drive here. It's called Dua Restaurant. It's like a football-field They have a massive barbecue section, and a massive Karachi station, is going up in a billow of smoke and fire. What an atmosphere. There are just cooking meat for the entire sports field in the front. Wow, what a spot. (speaking in foreign language) This is one of the most cooking stations I have ever seen. They are just flying on the Karachis, just like bubbling like in the Karachi, and that The mixed grill has just arrived, this platter for you It is like the size of a baby carriage. (laughing) Look at this. This one is the Fran with this since it's right in front of me. You can just see the little prawns, the Desi Ghee on top of (laughing) Oh, wow. Oh, it's so spice-ish. You can taste all of the the cumin, the chilis, the We were just talking, there's no recipes. I mean, they have a He literally just takes that spatula, and just like sprinkles in the spices, and gets it perfect every single time. That knowledge, that experience, wow. That is masterful. Okay, next I gotta try the mutton Karachi, and the mutton Karachi Unbelievable tender. You taste a little bit but they mashed up those Again, the harmony of spices. It looks like kingfish. I believe it's kingfish grilled, and they just grill it That dry spice blend, and just like grilled (rhythmic music) (group chattering) Oh, yeah. Taste that with a tomato. Wow. The food here is just spectacular. (rhythmic music) That is sensational. Again, I'm just blown away by Pakistan, the food culture, the people, and Karachi. Man, what a day it's been. Now, once you finish your there's people across the playing field that are in the position, with your meal, I wouldn't but, yes, it is mandatory where you elbow down on the pillow, and this is my first time in the position in the right clothes, in the right attire. This is one of the most after you eat that you will My good friend, Ali, knows that very well. - That's my conditioned position. (laughing) That's my default position. - [Mark] Default position. - Yeah. (laughing) I don't even have to make an effort. I actually automatically - Yeah, I saw him just kind after he took his last bite. (laughing) And now you can actually socialize, and lay around It's been an action-packed day. It's already midnight right now. We've been eating since 8:30 a.m., and an unbelievable day, incredible food. Karachi, you have been I wanna say a huge thank for showing me around Karachi, and thank you to Ali from and Landmark Travel for for organizing everything It's been absolutely one of the most rewarding trips of my entire life.