Dr. Rao: Thank you. Thank you, Vishen [SP]. what I'd like you to do is would you please very deep, very slow breaths. Now, reach up know, really push at it and continue taking left, your left and continue taking deep slow taking deep slow breaths. Okay, folks, sit Now, in case any of you are wondering why my opening remarks that I needed some time And in fact, I'm going to do something that to share some material with you, which I have in my programs and even then only to select level of awareness here and the openness that never done in public before. So, if you're Buster, you're gonna get it. So, what I would my talk, please experience it. Relate it back you view life and see how it completely changes I had a course which I taught in many business Mastery. I no longer teach it at any business the syllabus, what I state is, &quot;This is a life. And if it does not profoundly change And I can tell you that you take my program, change your life. And the reason I can make where I draw my material. This is not equal stuff that I'm sharing with you. What has spiritual masters and destroyed the earth traditions, and they intimately understood predicaments and they came up with solutions. millennia and they absolutely work. What I powerful teachings. I've stripped them of adapted them so that they are acceptable to society. And in that context, they've been business schools, major corporations, and make that statement so confidently. So, what I'm going to do today is I'm going about, why it works, and I'm actually going Fair enough? One of the ways in which my program get to decide you want to take it. Typically, kind of program, the way it works is you decide, willing to pay it?&quot; Two, &quot;Where is it going answer to both of those is yes, then okay, can't decide you want to take it. You have is deliberately cumbersome pain in the backside. And the reason for that is very simple. I enough changing my life. So, what I can do tools, but they will only work if you are with it. If you don't have that, and you attend nothing happens, then it's a waste of your your time, is you'll be a drag on everybody around if you're not willing to engage. So, application process. But if, on the other then quite literally, magic happens. So, let me ask you a question. How many of the two most important turning points are something like, &quot;You know, from now on, things healthy, exercise regularly, stop procrastinating.&quot; Man: A week. Dr. Rao: A week is actually pretty good. You sign up so many more people than they can 15 there'll be plenty of space on the treadmill The reason it doesn't happen is most of us will. &quot;Darn it. I am going to stop eating about it. Is it or is it not true that when bring about change by an effort of will? When of will, you are doing violence to yourself. even if you have a very strong will and therefore you will probably pay a prize that you're cold turkey, you eat too much, you put on you ruin your disposition and relations with Anytime you try to bring about profound personal to yourself, you're unlikely to succeed. And they will be a side effect that you're not and it lasts. And the reason it does is because It comes about because you re-examine how mental models, you quite literally become person, your behavior changes automatically. So, given that as a background, there are so let me lay them out for you. And the first chatter. And mental chatter is an internal all the time. It begins right out from the you right now. Through the day, is with you, it's so loud that it prevents you from going know the thing that goes, &quot;Okay, what time day outside. Maybe I should go out to the I've learned a great deal already and, you have anything useful to say.&quot; That kind of thing is mental chatter. It is it. Try to suppress it. We live our lives unwelcome relative who lands up at your place do with it. That is a big mistake. And the our mental chatter, we pretty much let it you to know is that you create your world You create your world with your mental chatter. You live in a construct. And if you've seen of you have. If you don't, I would strongly library, or buy it and watch it. We all live we live in a construct. It's something we hugely liberating concept because if what There's nothing you can do about it, grin world, a real world, then there is stuff you are parts of it that you can deconstruct. your liking and you have immense flexibility. is all about. Let me move on to the next concept. And the model. And a mental model is a notion that And all of you have models. You have got dozens got a model for how to find a person that pick a restaurant to eat at? Did you attend awesome? Woman: Yeah. Dr. Rao: So, how many of you decided, &quot;Gee, I went out and did it.?&quot; Okay. What you've And in that mental model, here is something this and subject myself to the full days, That is a model. And, by the way, that's a Silva who is also a good friend of mine. And at her and said, &quot;Yeah, I'm gonna go. Are go.&quot; So, we are gonna go. We're just not going because life is crazy for the next few months, out the time to do it probably next year. But understand that what I have just done many of you have created. This is not reality. wrong, in any sense, &quot;wrong&quot; with a mental that you have a mental model. You think this not the way the world works. This is your of us get into the habit of saying, &quot;Oh, gee, saying something that should think about it. get caught in this trap of is it true or false? Don't ask yourself whether a particular mental they are all false. Everything that I'm going This is one of the things I bring up early, before, there are many type A-driven personalities. You can find an MBS from top schools are even of the room makes a statement, A, very bright what set of circumstances is not A the correct revealing to you that everything I'm going no point in asking yourself is this true or push hard enough, you penetrate deep enough, crumble. What you don't recognize is the models not subjected to the same scrutiny are equally So, the right question to ask yourself is, or bad, right or wrong. Ask yourself, &quot;Does I am presently using?&quot; Got that? Does it work presently using? And if the answer to that tinker with it, make it uniquely your own, just drop it and go head, go on to the next fair? Audience: Yeah. Dr. Rao: That's what I'm gonna ask you to you is that of the me-centered universe. And got it wrong. Remember Galileo, he's the guy around the sun. All of you guys are personally does not move around the sun. It revolves happens, how quickly do you break it down spouse gets a great job offer and your reaction Your daughter drops out of high school to substances. And your reaction is, &quot;What will even when you are driven by what you think some tragedy someplace. So, you're gonna call it come down to, &quot;How dare they keep me on live in a me-centered universe? No matter it down to, &quot;What's the impact on me?&quot; It So, what I would like to share with you is time living in a me-centered universe, if then you are guaranteed to live a life where are a big part of it. You will live, by and way it is. Now, normally, when I give a talk by an ideal life. And in this case, I'm gonna good job in terms of describing what awesomeness So, in my vision for you, I have it that we at the thought of being who you are and doing alive many times during the day. You have from whatever it is that you do for a living. though incredibly fortuitous coincidence has itself is opening up to help you achieve whatever of different circumstances in your job, in feats that you'd never have dreamt off. And you do so joyfully with no regrets. And I'm suggesting that if your life is not you are heading in that direction, then you to point out to you is what I just described. to this event is this is not a pipe dream. speaking. Something like that is achievable. by you. And you can get there. And what I'm you some of the more powerful exercises that and actually start measuring your own progress. Audience: Yeah. Dr. Rao: All right. Let's talk about happiness. is it tend to talk about happiness in very I had my favorite ice cream and I'm happy good conversation, so I'm happy.&quot; And I'm about very, very, very deep feeling of wellbeing. always been okay. You will always be okay. as long as you are in the human condition, you're going to deal with this stuff as needed. okay is always there and you're kind of anchored And bearing that in mind, what I would like thinking about,&quot; What do I have to do? What You can write it down if you want, but it's it in your own mind. What do I have to get the program, I put it up on a flip chart and stuff comes up. I put down two things on the I put down are vast wealth and trophy spouse. trophy spouse, by the way, is because these for some reason, people feel bashful about of time by putting it up there. In the old days, if you're a millionaire, a millionaire, you feel positively middle the kind of money that you can have a mansion room, and stuff like that. So, that takes course, I don't know what your definition put that down and throw in brains and top So, I have acknowledged the 800-pound gorillas, So, what comes up is stuff like relaxing leisure children comes up, you've got to establish off and stuff like that. But what I want you we live our lives on that principle. What that the question I asked you is a trick question get in order to be happy?&quot; And... Yeah. Absolutely can get, you can also unget, is that correct? happy and you can also unget it, then what going to suggest to you that there is nothing to be happy. Happiness is hardwired into you. into you, your nature. Your nature is happiness. Now, you're listening very politely and some so polite and I frequently get asked, &quot;Well, saying that there's nothing I have to do get not express experiencing by in innate self, reason for that is actually very simple. What learning to be unhappy, and we did that right spent our lives learning to be unhappy. And Remember we talked about mental models earlier the way the world works? There is one particular with every fiber of our being, and that is we can do something, so we can be something. travel to exotic places like here so I can I can have great sex, so I can be happy. These the if-then model states, &quot;If this happens, that's different between all of us in this is what is the particular if that we are focusing business takes off, if my in-laws move to if I had $1 million, so in your model you in my bank account, if my kid got into Harvard. happens, then I will be happy.&quot; Here's what I'd like you to do. Go back to who you were 10 years ago. Okay? Those of Now, when you do that, think of who you were things you wanted at that time because at you had a, &quot;If this happens or if I get this, are pretty good that many of the items you ago, you now actually have and it has not We've seen that all the time. So, how do we by saying, &quot;You know, I thought if I had X, that my wellbeing hasn't changed. I made a I thought if I got married I would be happy. to the wrong person, so the thing to do is of an expert on this one. And that didn't work, so we'll do it again. is we change what we put on the if side of be happy.&quot; I realized I made a mistake here, else on that and that didn't work, so I'll is we spend all our time rearranging what we do not recognize is the if-then model is The model is fundamentally flawed. The model model is broken, what we do is we change what the reason it doesn't work very well and that learn to be unhappy. And, by the way, how do you know that what Well, why don't you test it out with your sometime, maybe this morning, maybe yesterday such spectacular beauty that it kinda took calm and serenity? You know, all you got to Any of you can you recall that? Raise your can. Have you ever wondered why that happened? That happened because, somehow, inexplicably, universe exactly as it was. You know, you a beautiful rainbow, but it's way off to one the right, it would be ever so much better.&quot; the valley, but there are too many crooked and I'll make it better now.&quot; Now, you know, with the crooked branches was fine and the it is, your habitual wanting self dropped away, you didn't have to do anything to experience It kinda welled up and overwhelmed you, and remember it even though it might've happened of you, I hope it happened yesterday or this gorgeous country. Okay? So, what I'm going to suggest to you is that that you have, more precisely, with all of bit as perfect. And the only reason that you're innate part of you is because you are resisting &quot;Doggone it. No, this is not the way I want it to be and it's not happening.&quot; By the way, you and the universe, bet on the universe the universe does not seem to pay a whole to have happen? You all notice that, right? it. This is the way it's got to be.&quot; And as into the if-then model, &quot;If the universe changes is how things should be, then I will be happy.&quot; And I was just pointed out the if-then model to be unhappy. This is a simple concept, but huge. And let me share some of them with you. even further, which I have never done in a very polite and some of the audiences that I remember there was a student from one of and said, &quot;First of all, let me get this straight. get or be to be happy?&quot; Happiness is my innate being a smart aleck. He was genuinely curious, it would go. So, from now on, things are going the alarm's going to ring and I'm gonna hit snooze button, I'm gonna throw the clock out going to be different. And beer, and girls, and going to classes or working at, I interview I need to do all of that? You know, there's Is that gonna work? And the answer to that is yes. Yes, it is occupy a particular emotional domain. And domain, let me tell you a story. When Sri Ramakrishna was? He was a sage who lived in soul. When he died, his disciples kind of one of them, his name was Raquel, he later towards Varanasi, which is a holy Indian city number of days and all of a sudden he couldn't that he was going to die. He was okay with And, you know, he just laid down and closed walking behind and said, &quot;Oh, holy man, he's expensive shawl and he took it off and covered observed that and started giving thanks to here I am feeling cold and the universe provided was doing that, the next person came down asleep.&quot; And Swami Premananda burst out laughing. player of the universe? Even as I was giving the shawl vanished?&quot; And he had a jolly chuckle. If that is the emotional domain that you are to do nothing. But I would humbly suggest no, it will not work for us. Here is what clear idea, or if not a pretty clear idea, this is the way the world should be. And in be, there is a big role for you, maybe even how I should be in terms of the amount of do, in terms of the respect in which I'm held that and you have a vision of the world and of the world and you do have it. As long as you to try to make that happen with every world, go make it happen. Invest yourself invest in it with the idea, &quot;If this happens, notion, &quot;If this happens, wonderful. If it no way, has an impact upon your wellbeing. from learning to ride a bicycle. It's something is a hugely important practice. From a young age we are taught, we've got set yourself goals, you wanna go off and do you can go to a good graduate school. If you and get a good job or, you know, you learn If you become an entrepreneur, then you have always taught that we have to have goals. actions are within your control but the outcome that? Right? I'll tell you a funny story about that. There the tradition is that if you have a swami, and a privilege if you can invite them to a meal. So, there was a swami and he was invited And in that plate, he noticed that there was Indian vegetable, and he really didn't like And when you're given food, it's not considered &quot;You know what I'm going to do with it, there's first so I'll get done with it and then I up the karela and the housewife was watching the karela. He must like it.&quot; And before I came up on his plate. He ate it with difficulty. know, they have an informal whisper net among &quot;Swami is coming to my house. I know he came likes karela. He ate it first.&quot; So, wherever just said, &quot;I started liking it. I didn't Perfect illustration of actions are within at your life, you will find that you have time you succeeded, much of the time you did you achieved a result which was diametrically in this story of the swami that I just told it. So, what happens if you live your life principle says, &quot;If this happens, I will be work hard to achieve my goal and if I do achieve if I don't, I failed. That's the life that you live, you are... It's a built-in recipe much of the time. It is not a good way to indoctrinated into focusing on the outcome. with a number of companies and there is no a goal. In fact, many companies now no longer of them are just moving on to super stretch they're very high potential people and stretch to have super stretch goals. And all are the and if you don't, gone. I'm not saying don't have goals, because as our psyches. We cannot live without something is that what do you can do is focus on goals Once the direction has been given, forget put every fiber of your being into what do set up. Invest in the process, do not invest when you start investing in the process, not of all, you really start enjoying your life. earlier, the vision, that vision laid out got up and said, &quot;Hey, you know, am I there is the direction you want to be going. Are when you start investing in the process, you focused on the outcome, you are looking at And I don't have to tell you, the journey One of the best quotes on this that I've come are probably familiar with him. For those person to make the Basketball Hall of Fame, UCLA to an unprecedented number of NCAA victories said was, &quot;Whenever I start working with a opponents. I always talk about when it's over best that you were capable of? If you did school really doesn't matter. But if you did you will find the score to your liking.&quot; That not the outcome. This, by the way, has ramifications we still a senior executive in one of my programs and and he was responsible for all the sales of Australian... In fact, a big chunk of the &quot;First of all, let me get this straight, you my numbers and if I get up tomorrow and say, is not likely to be very thrilled.&quot; First I'm not advocating that you stand up on a is not a career-enhancing strategy. This is it plays on. Is I told him, &quot;Look, you know, didn't meet. You're not gonna make it. Is do what you normally would have done, and know, go into a tizzy and, you know, point go into a downward spiral, or you can simply numbers. As a result of you're not making your numbers, involuntary separation from your position. deal with it when it happens. But for the gonna meet the numbers. Tomorrow will be another deal with what you can do. Invest in the process. together with his team and he went over to we're not gonna make our number, so I don't of magnitude and here's what I propose to enhancement measures, some cost containment see what happens&quot; methods. And the boss looked business conditions, so sure, you know, that So, what could have been a major derailment Think about that in your own life when you on the outcome, you are missing the journey. Let's go over... Now we're getting into some we do which contributes greatly to our not and not the actor. Any of you seen &quot;Death of the Salesman?&quot; There's the salesman, there's successful and then he was not so successful and his marriage was breaking off, his relationships tried to commit suicide. Now, imagine that want to get into it? You know, you'll be the be. And as you're doing that, in the back of your if I am a sufficiently miserable Willy Loman, for me. Maybe even an Oscar. So, you get into a father playing with his kid and the kid and you being the father, other robbers. So, and you really look scared and you get into You are a father playing with a son. The reason with the actor, not the character. What happens is me and all of these things are happening with the character and not the actor because stuff is happening. Let me explain. Now we're going to is some Okay. Going back to our Aristotelian philosophy, cause and a material cause. And the efficient and the material cause is what do we make and the efficient cause is Michelangelo and ornament and the efficient cause is the goldsmith the board. You know, you have an automobile the material cause is rubber, steel, glass Now you have this wonderful thing called the the sun, the solar system, there are galaxies it, right? Now we have the interesting question. if you know, He kind of made it out of some particles, quarks, bosons, gauge bosons, leptons. this takes you into an infinite regress? Now, this is where I got to tell you what to get you a great deal of the way. But the you all the way. The intellect is like a car. you get in the car and you drive up to his It might even get you into the driveway, but leave the car to enter the house and meet that. It's the car. It'll get you halfway transcend the intellect if you're gonna go now. Do you understand that you get caught the quantum soup, correct? There is only one way out of the regress. itself, which means that each one of you is sitting, the projector up there, the microphone, history, Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot, the great all God stuff. Everything's God stuff. Think every tradition, we have this feeling of mystical of wholeness is the recognition that that been, there is not now and there will not you are a part of that, an intrinsic part Now, this is very easy to understand intellectually a leap beyond intuition to make that a part you're anchored in, then the way in which quite dramatically. Because what happens, senior executives, with entrepreneurs, is You have an entrepreneur, has strong beer from, &quot;Here is what I want this person to I would have done it and not come bothering tend to be... And especially when life is more granular. You tend to look at people that you with your ego want to have happen. But if instead your anchor in, &quot;There is God's and your attitude is,&quot; What is it that I can this person?&quot; Think about that. Every time run into people, some of those meetings are some of them could be extended associations. intention in you when you go into an interaction? people as mechanisms because they can give demeaning the transaction. But if your underlying is it that I can do to get this person to way you get a person to a higher level of then it completely changes the nature of the of you get out of it. And I'm inviting you yourself in? And if you anchor yourself in incredible... You know, God is a loaded term, of the fabric of universe. That is what I world you cannot achieve, quite literally, And let me explain what I mean by a third &quot;I've been challenged enough time. First of achieve. And, you know, I wanna be Wimbledon we Wimbledon champion. Tell me how we can of all, neither of you is gonna be Wimbledon Wimbledon is you buy a ticket early. But that by the way, &quot;I wanna be Wimbledon champion.&quot; be a Wimbledon champion? What does it mean What is it that you are looking for to be is what is the lack in me that leads me to you can have anything you want. Because all we are incomplete, we are not full. We need relationship, whether it is more money, whether to become full. And I'm saying you don't need part of the universe. There's God stuff in full. So, whatever action you take, take it from you're taking along warm shower and, you know, feeling so good, you burst out spontaneously Audience: Yeah. Dr. Rao: Do you sing because you want to be It is a spontaneous outburst. In exactly the that you run, the courses that you undertake, spontaneous outburst of the fullness that leave you with. That is how life can be and get there. Don't obsess on, &quot;Am I there yet?&quot; to move towards that and am I closer there do that, you know, you'll get to the awesomeness