Has the news spread? It has spread. Now the whole city knows that President Pei has become a disabled person . The Qiao family is preparing to change the bride. Real-time news of Pei Yanzhou, president of Pei, suffered a car accident. Real-time news of disabled legs. Real - time news of Pei. Pei announced that with The eldest daughter of the Qiao family, Qiao Yiyue's wedding real-time news has been postponed . It's time to leave this ghost place of the Qiao family. It's clear that Qiao Yiyue is Pei Yanzhou's bride. You asked me to come over. Are you willing? Mr. Pei Yanzhou told him that as long as he has a bride, that's all. Qiao Er The lady doctor said that Mr. I can't even stand up. Why are you willing to marry a disabled person for your sister? As long as I leave Qiao's house, it won't matter where I go. I don't know if I can satisfy him with my ugly appearance . Mr. Yan Zhou is here , let's all have a drink. Cheers , eat, eat , eat, it tastes good to her The substitute sent by the Qiao family is Mr. Qiao Yixing, the second daughter of the Qiao family. Qiao Yiyue accidentally slipped and fell down the stairs due to excessive worry. She is still unconscious and cannot fulfill the engagement. She has been cleaned and sent to The nice gentleman in my room, come up , I mean Sit on top of me, Pei Yanzhou. I have no experience, so I can't do it, right? He can do it well with my devilish look . It 's obvious that you have no experience . Why don't you find a movie to learn from? Pei Yanzhou, you're not in good health, so don't force it. Pei Yanzhou, you are blatantly spreading porn about you If you want to get into the game, watch and learn about love movies. Do you want to practice it? It seems that it wo n't work if you don't risk everything today. I want you to retreat before the difficulties. I didn't expect you to be so brave and go against the current. Pei Yanzhou, I have something to discuss with you. You see, I'm so ugly that I can't be your wife. Am I not a person who judges books by their appearance? Qiao Yixing, I need you as my wife to help me deal with people outside . You mean my Lord , what else can you do with a body like mine? You can only stay here. Someone at home is bullying me. You have to help me. I can agree. You just need to give me some capital to live on after this is done. The house, car, and money can guarantee that I can live independently in the future. The agreement has been reached , but the first thing I want you to do is to stop acting ugly . You have to pay for my glasses . Let's wait until I wake up to talk about it . DO SECULO XIX When you wake up, let's talk about glasses. I'll apologize for breaking your glasses if I wear them exactly the same and it's best to be ugly . I don't want you to continue to act ugly. I act ugly to avoid causing trouble. You don't know. How did your fiancee torment me at home? Although I have left Qiao's house now , they will still linger. You see, let me tell you. Your fiancee and I are already married. If you say another fiancee, others will think that I am bigamous. Sister Xingxing. woke up Come to the hospital to see your sister. You can choose not to go. She came to your door. I had to take the initiative. Finally , relying on your power, I had to bully him. Are you sure Pei Yanzhou can follow? He is still the CEO of the Pei Group. If you want more benefits , of course you don't want to see how much the cripple likes our Ah Yue. If he knows I'm awake, he will definitely come to see me. No need to look at Pei Yanzhou. He won't come . Is it because you don't let him come ? Well, this old saying goes well Who am I to make trouble ? Can I stop Pei Yanzhou? If he doesn't come, doesn't it just mean that he doesn't want his sister ? You have grown up now. You talk in weird ways and dare to resist. It seems that I was too merciful to your subordinates in the past. You are a little bit shrimp . I'm allergic and can't breathe anymore. I'm Pei Yanzhou's wife now and act like a woman . We can't disgrace him. This Pei Yanzhou is just a phoenix with no feathers, not as good as a chicken. How can you two, a crippled and ugly monster, show off? Then what are you doing to find him? Let me think about it, do you want to squeeze the last of his life out of him? It's worth it to you . If you give up on this, Pei Yanzhou, he won't come. It doesn't count if you say it. If he doesn't come , he won't come. I , I will go find him. You go to see him like this. What do you know? He can tell how sad I am just by looking at my appearance . Aunt Yan Zhou, something is wrong . Yan Zhou , I know you are blaming me, but I have no choice but to do it . I fell into a coma and when I woke up, Xingxing had already married you. I, Yanzhou, really wanted to marry into the Pei family, but... I can't be so selfish . I can't hurt my sister. You have always wanted to marry into the Pei family. Do you want to marry into the Pei family ? Do you want to marry two? You have to believe me , even if you can't stand up for the rest of your life , I will still take care of you and me. I will love you as always. I know that even if I can't stand up for the rest of my life, I will still take care of you. Come on out. It's not a good habit to eavesdrop. She speaks so loudly. I can't even listen if I want to. I'm tired. You can send your sister-in-law off. Remember, let her leave Pei's house safely . There is a saying that goes well. If the ex cries, the current one will. Pei Yanzhou is such a good lover. Who is this young talent? If you don't like it, then why don't you marry him? Who calls him useless? He has been crippled and you are not afraid that he will really let you marry him. It is impossible to marry him. Just say it. I only want him to remember me. I sincerely give you more benefits, just to pity you sister. You want to marry someone who pretends to be She is looking for someone else's man to make you miserable on purpose . How can you really agree to her request? You are physically disabled and not mentally deficient. I didn't do it on purpose . How can I refuse someone else's request now ? Yan Zhou, I'm not that one. I mean, Dad, if you look at their feelings, I'll tell you Insisting on Yan Zhou to get married. That's right . Yan Zhou looks cheerful. Grandpa, this is Qiao Yixing, my wife. She is Qiao Yiyue's sister. Why do you look so ugly ? How do you talk ? Don't be the same as him . It's my little care to welcome you to join us Should this big family accept this gift ? Girl , hey, hey, this is a famous porcelain from the official kiln, made by a master, and you can't buy it even if you have money, right? Ouch, I didn't know this thing is so expensive , I'm sorry, I'll compensate you. Can you afford it? Why don't you let your husband pay it ? Forget it, let's give up the position of CEO. Daughter- in-law, you don't know, Yan Zhou, he has always been alone and I have always been worried about him. Now, with you taking care of him, I feel relieved. You are not my mother. Don't call my wife that. I'm afraid you can't stand it. Why is Yan Zhou so? Is it because you don't like him, so you deliberately exclude him ? I understand that, right? Your wife's care is different from other people's care . You think about it? Ever since Yan Zhou's accident, your sister has been afraid to avoid him. Fortunately, you don't dislike Yan Zhou. Zhou is a disabled person and is willing to take his place for you My sister is married because she is not so lucky . Speaking of my sister-in-law and grandpa Qiao Yiyue, she still wants to marry into the Pei family. Why do you want to divorce Qiao Yixing and remarry? Brother, although I said my sister-in-law is a bit ugly , you do this. It's not good either. People may say you're lustful. It doesn't matter. Ah, divorce . Why should I Of course he is my younger brother. How can you marry and kiss your younger brother ? This is called incest when a woman you are engaged to marries your younger brother. Then does it mean that if I marry my sister's ex-fiance ? Incest, oh , Dad , please be fair, where is your reason? Now it is said that Qiao Yiyue is vain and won't marry me, but I understand her choice and sympathize with her experience. If you sympathize with her, then you take this ugly wife and marry her. Why are you harming my son ? Mom , Yueyue, can't marry my eldest brother. I know. Pei Hangyu likes Qiao Yiyue, I do One star is enough. She treated me sincerely and divorced her. I am worse than a beast. It will also affect Pei's stock price. I think Pei Hangyu is more suitable . You did a good job. I have my own arrangements for your Hangyu marriage. I know that aunt wants to marry her. The Pei family's rival Youjia gets married to Aunt Dan Don't forget that the Youjia wanted to annex the Pei family five years ago. How dare you contact the Youjia ? Dad, please listen to my explanation. It's You Zhi, the eldest lady of the Youjia, who wants to marry us. How dare you? Promise, do you have any brains? That Youjia wishes we were dead, I am Hangyu The marriage should be done as Yanzhou said. Dad can't do this. It will affect Hangyu's future. Brother, this is a major event in your life. Do you want to marry her or not ? Mom, I want to marry Yueyue and I want to give her the grandest wedding. Qiao Yiyue still married into the Pei family with great grace , and there was one more thing It used to be that I didn't think well enough to owe Xingxing a wedding . Why do n't we organize it together? Let's just do it . Let's go our separate ways. Why did you finally bring up the matter of having a wedding with me? We are already married. You are still wasting this money ? I want to give it to you. Is it important for you to have a wedding ? Let's talk about you. Why did you let your brother marry Qiao Yiyue ? I let her marry Pei Hangyu. Isn't that just letting her marry into the Pei family? That's true. But how are you sure that Qiao Yiyue will marry ? This is the best marriage partner for Qiao Yiyue. She won't give up, and her parents won't let her give up either. At this time, the news has spread to the Qiao family. You are too powerful. Without me, you will definitely be able to beat the whole family. They say you are ugly. Are you not aggrieved ? Is there anything wrong with being a low-key person? Follow me. There is no need to be low-key. You are already very beautiful . You should be. Show it to them openly No, no, I need this mask. I'm not a fool. Your family members all want to harm you , but you are the best and the most ambitious . Aren't you afraid of me? What are you afraid of ? What can you do to me? It could be you who is talking nonsense . Mr. Yanzhou, Mrs. Qiao Da The lady is here. I can't stop Yan Zhou. I have something to tell you. It's not easy for her to show off if you stay here. She can do everything. If you have anything to say, just say it, Yan Zhou. Why do you want me to marry someone else ? It's not you. Do you want to marry into the Pei family? If you don't want to, just say no. No one can force you. If you don't know how to speak, I will help you. I just send a message. I am willing. As long as I can marry into the Pei family, I can see you every day. Pei Hangyu is your brother. Then our names will be written on the same page. Having the household registration book means that I married you, but it doesn't mean that you said so. Where do you put your future husband and your biological sister? Are you blaming me? How could I blame you? I should thank you for your withdrawal . Let Zixing come to me, don't go too far Yanzhou , your marriage is also a sacrifice for Xingxing . Of course, marrying a disabled person is wronging her. I'm not talking about this. Xingxing used to have a boyfriend named Cheng Xiaoyang. He lived near our house. They had an appointment. If we want to be together, you should mention a person from your past properly. He has already settled abroad. He heard the news that you were getting married and decided to come back. Well, then I went back and forgot to ask you, what would you do if Cheng Xiaoyang came back? unwilling Go with him and rest. Hey, you don't want to ask about Cheng Xiaoyang. It's not important to him . Why is he angry? I asked you out today because I actually want to thank you. I don't have to deal with Jiang Ning anymore. Even if I don't take action, you won't marry Pei Hangyu, right? Of course there is someone in my heart. I am the wine boss of He Ling who I want to marry. Stop drinking. Yan Zhou hasn't seen you like this for a long time. Why are you so unhappy? She has someone else in her heart. How can I get rid of that person? Dig it out of her heart People who were stunning when they were young are deeply ingrained and cannot be poached. Do you believe this? Or do you women believe this? I just met her later than that person. If you are so unhappy, just break up with her. Boss , is the wine here ? What makes her unhappy? It's my wife, He Ling, who is sending me back. Madam, why are you so drunk? Sir, I'm in a bad mood. I'll go ahead and drink some water to calm down. I don't have time. Feed me, Qiao Yixing. You forgot about him. You go crazy after drinking. I 'm not crazy. I just like you. How about you ? I'm going to take a bath, please help me. Are you okay ? I did n't come in on purpose. I was afraid that you would drown in the bathtub. You, me, are you okay? Tell me, I'm leaving first. Wait, I need your help . I, I want to help you , let me go, Qiao Yixing, did you listen? As for what I said just now, what did you say that you liked me? I didn't mean it when I was drunk. I meant what I said. You 're so late and you're still not resting. There are so many money-losing projects. I'm afraid they're going to attack me at the wedding so they can call me. Abdicate and let Xian Jiangning think of me She's useless now that she 's disabled . Hum , I'll give her a nice gift at the wedding. Do you want to hear what I'm going to do ? Yes, you drink it and please me, I will We are taking care of the vulnerable groups, okay. Do you want to have a taste? Hurry up and eat. I will go to Qiao's house later to discuss the marriage of the two of us . Okay, I will wait for you at the door in a while. Hello Star, I'm back, come here, please speak politely. Don't be like a messenger Treat her like a kitten or a puppy . Let go of me. Mr. Cheng, why are you so rude ? Why don't you pay more attention to your friends? We are running out of time. Be honest , stars, moons and moons . We will soon become a family. Yes, we, Hangyu, are also from the Pei family. The heir will not treat you badly Your grandfather has ordered the betrothal gift. He will not be partial. Since when I got engaged, it was 1.68 billion , so Pei Hangyu's betrothal gift will be the same. Oh, this means that the Pei family likes our Yueyue. So, what are your plans for my betrothal gift ? When will it be returned? Oh, Yanzhou, how can you kid ask this in person? Why are you planning to accept both my betrothal gift and Pei Hangyu's betrothal gift ? Do you have to make me so embarrassed in public? I forgot, can't I? Then I'll remind you. Remember to transfer. Give it to my wife, why do you have to be so numb? If you're bothered, just ask Hangyu to give the money to Zixing. My betrothal gift was kept by my future sister-in-law. My brother's wedding gift was kept by my wife. This kind of ethical matter should be dealt with clearly. I will transfer the money to Zixing. Oh, okay. Have you heard that your Qiao family plans to marry Qiao Yiyue? Since the dowry is the daughter of the Qiao family , Qiao Yiyue must also have the Yixing. Why don't you go and snatch it ? Yueyue's dowry is what she had when she was born. What does Qiao Yixing count ? Huh , my sister and I are originally It's different. You don't want to prepare a dowry for Zixing because you think Sooner or later, I will retire from the position of CEO if I am disabled. Now I am still the CEO of the Pei family. I still have the final say in everything about the Pei family . The stars that appear every month will definitely be there . We have the same love for our two daughters . Thank you. Come and eat more pig's trotters to replenish your body. Xing Yanzhou, don't misunderstand Xingxing. She doesn't dislike you for being disabled. She cares about you. Sister, what do you mean? I didn't dislike him in the first place. Yanzhou, why do you believe whatever Xingxing says ? We are a family, she said. I would naturally believe anything and it makes me exhausted I'm exhausted after having a meal. My wife, sir, invites you to the guest room to rest tonight. Why do you need to ask the wife if she did something she shouldn't have done or said something she shouldn't have said? He's in a pretty good mood today. Hey, I'm with you . You said that after He Ling passed today, I would be worth dozens of dollars You 're such a rich woman, you're really angry. That's great, Pei Yanzhou. Other couples have wives asking their husbands to go to the guest room. It's better for you. You 're angry and you asked me to go to the guest room. Just tell him to go and go. I'm still afraid of him. You stingy guy, didn't I just trap you ? A pig's trotter? As for going online like this? I'm mad at him for refusing to eat . Why did He Ling tell her so much ? Can I take the gift money and refund it? Just keep it for yourself and spend it. You are such a generous person. Sir, do you still want to share a room with me? People always keep their word, which makes her have a long memory. Big house, big car 1 An hour ago, Teacher Li, Tornado Boy, can we meet tomorrow? Xiaoxiao is also back, haha , clam shrimp hafnium W 123 Pei Yanzhou doesn't think that the word &quot;complementing shape with shape&quot; is not good. Such an ugly pig's trotters are not worthy of his feet. Oh, I'm so annoyed that I don't want to think about it anymore. Cheng Xiaoyang is in the bottom of a man's heart. I'll see you tomorrow. Boss, this is a signed contract . Please take a look at me. Made an appointment I'm going out alone. Boss, why are you and your wife having trouble? Why don't you say that I will recover early? Didn't you agree that during the wedding, everyone would be the center of attention? The Pei family finally stood up. I don't care if Cheng Xiaoyang can walk or dance. Really? I 'd rather see how Cheng Xiaoyang wants to go. Boss , you still have to go on with the wheelchair scene. You seem to be in good spirits. Zixing, do you blame us for leaving at that time? Friends are for life . You also have your position , but now the hard days are over . Xingxing, I mean Pei Yanzhou, how is he treating you, very good, and living with him is quite exciting. How is your life abroad ? Oh, we are very good , so why do you want to come back to Xing, listen to me. Xiaoyang only has you in his heart. As long as you are willing, you can come with us , okay? I am married and I have no way to respond to your feelings . I think Pei Yanzhou is a good person and I am willing to live a good life with him. Oh, why are we talking like this? An embarrassing topic. We are here to bless Zixing . Why haven't I seen her smile at me like this before watching TV ? Are you angry? What did I do wrong ? Tell me. I can correct it. You left me alone yesterday. Go to guest room I can't sleep alone in my bed. How did you fall asleep for more than 20 years? Why are you so angry ? From yesterday to now, you can't be holding a grudge. I let you eat pig's trotters. You let me. I eat pig's trotters and you still say my feet look like pig's trotters You still met your first love, you violated my three taboos, and you still talk nonsense like this . Aren't you unable to sleep? Why don't you continue to sleep in the guest room tonight ? Hum, when did I say that his feet are like pig's hooves or something? Are you angry with your first love? It's been a day, cheapskate I'm so angry that I don't want to sleep with anyone anymore. Who 's peeking at me ? Why are you here ? Didn't you say you couldn't sleep alone? Did you miss me, that's why you came to me ? You bowed your head first to admit your mistake. I'm here to forgive you. Is it true ? For people like you, Cheng Xiaoyang was beaten by his parents. He was beaten. Why are you calling me? Call the police. I really don't. Thinking that you are such a ruthless and unjust person, if you are worried, you can go see me . What do you have to worry about ? His parents can't beat him to death. I'm not such a stingy person. It's too late. I'm alone in the evening. It's wrong for people to meet someone of the opposite sex , so go to bed and explain it clearly to Cheng Xiaoyang tomorrow ( Tea )B How is COFFEE ? Why was he beaten? Xiaoyang went back and told Uncle Cheng that he wanted to get married and take you away. That's it. I'm fine. I just told my dad that I have to do this. It's my business. Don't worry about me anymore . I want to take you abroad . Do n't you always care most about how I am doing? I am suing you now. Let me tell you that I am living a good life and you don't have to disobey your parents' instructions and do some unprovoked harm in the future. Take good care of him, Qiao Yixing. I wonder what Pei Yanzhou will do if he sees these photos of you . I think you have the right to know. Xingxing went to see Cheng Xiaoyang early in the morning. You were following my wife and I. I just happened to meet you and I was scared. Have you finished saying that you were deceived ? Yan Zhou is different in Qiao Yixing's heart . He is different from Xiaoyang. You said these words to sow discord with Yan Zhou. I love you and I can't bear to see Qiao Yixing bullying you like this. Since you can't bear it, why? If you don't stop them from meeting, why do you hide aside and take pictures? Why do you want me to misunderstand Qiao Yixing and then torture her to clean up? She, you actually think so about some documents in my boss's company. If you don't deal with the matter, you won't be able to move forward. It seems that we came at the wrong time to catch up with the good show. He Ling saw off Miss Qiao. As you expected, Jiang Ning thought you were a cripple and completely relaxed. Be careful and concentrate on overpowering you at the wedding. Wait until you come back to your senses and all the projects in hand are finished. THE The funds are tied up, Mrs. Pei is yours now. Why is it that Qiao Yiyue is so capable that you are obsessed with it? How can Qiao Yiyue be so capable? Qiao Yixing sleeps in my bed, eats my food and still thinks about other men . Are you still going to get married? Will you come early when the time comes ? Monique has arrived. The time has been arranged. Tomorrow, the lady will tailor a dress. Do you want to watch Yan Zhou marry her? Qiao Yiyue, do you know what is the stupidest thing about you? You have obviously taken a step. You have to install a Bai Yueguang persona for yourself. You are obviously a puppet. You think you can play chess. What can you do? Who do you think called Cheng Xiaoyang back ? You have this photo of Cheng Xiaoyang. Ace, do you think Yan Zhou will marry her ? I know you, the Qiao family , will resort to such low-level tactics to sow discord . Yan Zhou doesn't believe me at all . What do you want me to do? If I were you, I 'd better hurry up and think about the wedding. Pei Yanzhou asked Monique to do it. The time to design your wedding dress is tomorrow . Even your good looks that you are proud of will be compared to Qiao Yixing . Don't worry. The only thing that will be compared to her appearance is that her style is the latest model this year. I think it's more suitable for a madam . You can do this. What's going on, madam? Sir , you invited Mr. Monica, an internationally renowned designer, to design your wedding dress. Does it need to be so grand? After all, two couples are getting married together . Sir, madam, you can't lose to Miss Qiao. Forty- six and forty -seven. Oh, I think Madam. She will be more beautiful without wearing glasses. Oh my, these will fade. This is why I am more accustomed to wearing glasses. The bride I dress up must be the best star in the room. You and I are getting married on the same day and we are all married to the Pei family. If I can wear them . The same wedding dress It must be very beautiful and meaningful . Then you go ask the designer and see if he is willing to help you. No need to ask. The husband said that Madam's wedding dress must be unique. Please give up , Miss Qiao . Oh, then I can't help you. Sister Mo. Nika, let's go, aren't you very proud now? It's a pity that you married a bad guy. Forget it, it's pointless to tell you this now . You don't look like a prince even if you put on a dragon robe . You're a stranger. I remember when Pei Yanzhou became disabled. Miss Qiao seems to be You haven't checked in yet. Nonsense , sister came to see Yanzhou two days ago . Sister Yanzhou just said that she would wear the same wedding dress as me on the wedding day. Go tell the designer that it's not suitable. After all, the sizes are all different . When you are like this, I feel relieved that Yan Zhou can see with his own eyes that you are doing well. More importantly than anything else, when we had dinner together last time, I saw Xingxing give you a piece of pig's trotters. I was worried that she didn't understand your preferences. Then I really want to invite my sister to my house for a meal today to see if I know. It's good to know his preferences . I am Okay, it's been a long time since I've eaten food from the Pei family. She 's pretty thick-skinned. Is there anything she doesn't want to eat? You ask the kitchen to cook more. It makes sense. Qiao Yiyue doesn't like to eat onions, so make onions. Hey, you are You Zhi and Pei Yanzhou's partner. Let me introduce it to you Meet You Zhi, sit down, sister, are you leaving? I have worked so hard to watch the kitchen cook so many dishes, don't you want to try them? In the future, are you going to marry Hangyu's, ours or ours? It seems that Pei Yanzhou is enlightened. I'm afraid . You are lonely and lonely . I have found a source of knowledge for you. Is this really the case for the bottom of Su Yanzhou ? Well, Yanzhou, how can you cooperate with their nonsense? Sister, don't just be angry. Haven't you always wanted to taste the craftsmanship of the Pei family's kitchen? Why do n't you sit down and eat together ? So many onions, Qiao Yi Yue, isn't it because you don't like onions? Is it true? I remember that my sister is not that picky about food. Your sister has so many personas, how can she remember which one is the real her? Could it be that you are being wronged by eating with us ? I don't like eating onions. I can't use this trick anymore. I will injure the enemy by one thousand and damage myself by eight hundred. The onion flavor has long since disappeared . Is that a psychological effect ? Good night , Qiao Yi. Xing Yueyue has given Pei Yanzhou to you. You Why do you do this to her mother ? What did I do to you ? Tell me clearly. Yueyue had vomited and had diarrhea after eating at your place . Now she is in the hospital. Why are you still hurting her ? Is Pei Yanzhou still in love with Yueyue? Are you jealous of her ? that I still love Qiao Yiyue ? Will she be willing to hang up her phone like this tomorrow? It must be a big explosion. Then I will be the unlucky one. Then wait for her to explode. Don't worry about me. I 'm sleeping now . Why did aunt come to us so early ? You should know why I came to Pei's house early in the morning. Maybe it's because aunt misses us too much. Come and see Us, you, you should know that your sister went to the hospital yesterday after returning from Pei's house . You know, maybe it was because her sister had a bad stomach after eating outside . She didn't eat outside. What does this mean? You mean she was at Pei's house. I won't do it if I eat something bad . We all eat the same food. Yan Zhou and I have no problem. I'm not here to hear your excuses. You go to the hospital now and apologize to your sister. But our food is indeed fine. Okay , go now. Oh, with the moon. Look at this pale face, right? It's very uncomfortable. Auntie, I'm fine now. I'm fine now. Yanzhou, don't get up , lie down. Now that Yiyue is fine , Xingxing, just apologize to your sister. Even if this incident is over, what am I apologizing for? Brother Yiyue, yesterday The person who went to the hospital after eating something at Pei's house must be because the food last night was unclean. Do you suspect that the food was unclean or that someone poisoned it? Yan Zhou, don't make the matter serious . Hangyu, he doesn't have any other intentions . What does he mean? Your lab report is normal. That's all you guys do. I'm sure I ate something bad at Pei's house. The golden color was detected. But the food I ate last night was all the things I hate most. If you hate it, don't eat it . No one forces you to eat it. Yan Zhou, why don't you ask if Xingxing did it on purpose? Let the kitchen cook dishes that Yiyue hates Zixing is the mistress of the Pei family. She can cook whatever she wants in the kitchen. But you keep holding on to the Pei family. Could it be that you want to use money? I don't have me. This is not the best . I don't want to be accused of poisoning my ex-fiancee . Don't speak too harshly, right? My sister stepped out of bounds first and left. Why are you arguing with them? Yanzhou, your little thoughts can't be dealt with. Pei Yanzhou, if you dare to cause such a thing with me next time , I want you to look good. Why do you want to let Qiao Yiyue do it in the kitchen ? I just want to give her a favorite dish I don't dare to eat at Qiao's house because I'm allergic . I'll go into shock once I'm allergic . Treat her as my own. Don't be polite . Who is she? That's my second daughter who doesn't stand up to the public. Don't worry about her. Why don't you ask her to come with us ? There are so many dishes that we can't finish them all Qiao Yixing, please come in. The distinguished guests have all spoken . Eat, eat, eat. Don't just eat. Come on, you only know how to eat white rice. She is stupid . If she gives you allergic shock, you will only ask the kitchen to cook something you don't like. But she doesn't do it at all. If you don't have any food that you are allergic to , then remember these grievances well and support me in repaying them. Of course it's just a low-level method to rehabilitate her, so don't use it anymore. It's easy to backfire on you . They definitely won't let it go . Don't worry, I'm feeding Qiao Yixing. Where are you ? I'm at home. I'm at home, right? Okay, we'll come over and look for you right away. Sorry, we specially asked Mr. Pei to come over today . To be fair, you must apologize to your sister today. Things in the hospital haven't caused enough trouble yet . You have to come to the Pei family to make trouble again. Pei Yanzhou wants me to apologize. If you don't apologize, if you think it was the Pei family that poisoned Qiao Yiyue, you'd better come up with evidence. Otherwise, Don't go too far in slandering Pei Yanzhou. You'd better consider taking the exam first. Considering your current situation, they said I went too far. I made it clear to them when I was in the hospital. They insisted on bringing grandpa over to make the matter bigger . What I mean is, when someone says you go too far, you have to go even more. Show them that there is no way to get into trouble because of me . F Partner ABC MNO?! JKL Everyone WXYZ GHI TUV PQRS Space ABC Choose Pinyin Hahaha Well it's not you DE Good ABC JKL After all, they all care about me WXYZ Space PQRS ABC Choosing Pinyin Yueyue means that the heart is too kind. The same rice can support all kinds of people, unlike some people who are not only ugly in appearance but even uglier in heart. I will not apologize for things I have not done. Pei Yanzhou, you, you , you actually canceled the cooperation with the Qiao family. Have you learned it? Since someone refuses to listen to reason, then you can only take action. I have used my personal power. Even if I admit my mistake, it does not mean that what Qiao Yixing did is right. A mediocre person fights over right and wrong. What I want is my position. I believe you know what to do . Dad , Yueyuedao , if you don't apologize, I don't have this for you. My daughter , I'm sorry. It's the whole family that makes this happen. Isn't it embarrassing every day? Dad, my daughter-in-law has been hurt. Ca n't I ask for justice? Justice. Wait until you can drive Yan Zhou out of the position of president. Then you can tell me about justice. I will definitely let you out of the position of president during the wedding. Your wealthy family hosts a ceremony like this I find it troublesome, but if I want to marry you, I have to tell the world, otherwise there will always be people thinking about you. Although we were not very happy when we first got along, it was a bit coercive , but after this period of getting along with Pei Yanzhou, I want to tell you something about me. Things in the past are good, you tell me and I listen. Cheng Xiaoyang is a very important friend of mine. It is impossible to live in this world without friends, whether they are of the same sex or the opposite sex. Besides , aren't there girls in your company ? There are only three types of relationships between men and women. Emotions involve entangled interests. You Zhi Is my partner of interest And you and Cheng Xiaoyang are not just acquaintances, but have an emotional relationship. Cheng Xiaoyang is my lifesaver. I almost died from an allergic attack when I was young. He saved me. He is just lucky to have met you earlier. He deserves your love. I don't like him. Why do I like him ? It 's you who provoked me first. You're going back to Qiao's house tomorrow. Don't let me let you go tonight. Feed Zixing. I'm at your door. I know you're coming back today . I have something I want to talk to you about. Let's meet . Cheng Xiaoyang, it's been so long since you've been back and we haven't had a good conversation. Stars, I know you. Are you marrying Pei Yanzhou in place of Qiao Yiyue? As long as you want me, I can take you away. Tomorrow I am getting married. I need your blessing. If you are kind to me , I will remember it in my heart for the rest of my life. Is there only kindness between us ? Star, are you going to Do you want to draw a clear line with me ? You have your way and I have mine. Goodbye, Cheng Xiaoyang . Do n't blame me. Why did you run out ? Why haven't you changed into your wedding clothes yet? Oh, what time is it? It's not good if it delays the auspicious time. What do you want me to do with such ugly clothes ? Well, Qiao Yixing wears international clothes. Well-known big-name designer, go tell Zixing and ask her to give the clothes to Yueyue . It will delay the wedding. I don't want to wear the clothes she wore . Why are you dissatisfied with these clothes? I think you are dissatisfied, Pei Hangyu, okay? Marry Pei Hangyu and wait until you arrive at Pei's house After becoming a human master , Pei Yanzhou still has to listen to you. Why is Miss Yixing missing ? Cheng Xiaoyang, Cheng Xiaoyang, what are you doing? If you do this, you will kill me and yourself. Stars, don't be afraid that no one will hurt us when we go abroad , Xiaoxiao, are you just going to let him go crazy like this? Send me back immediately. I tried to stop him, but he didn't listen. I told him that if Pei Yanzhou finds out, he will bring trouble to the Cheng family. It will kill Uncle Cheng and the others, but he won't listen. He has gone crazy . Zixing, you know I can only accompany him. What are you doing? You can't take me away. This will kill my Xiaoxiao. Are you just looking at the stars to seek death? Don't come over, I won't let go Can you stop me once now ? If I have the chance to seek death in the future, can you stop me for the rest of my life? If you send me back now, do you really want to marry Pei Yanzhou? Should we let Zixing go? She is Pei who is willing to marry Pei Yanzhou. Yanzhou can also give her happiness. I can protect her. Cheng Xiaoyang, you can't protect her. You left the Cheng family, a powerless ordinary person. What are you going to do to steal a woman from Pei Yanzhou? What are you going to do to protect her? Look at her now, I beg you. Look at how she looks now. She should n't be like a star. I want to give you happiness. I will grow up so big. I've never been so happy. Okay. I've searched all over and can't find this little Qiao Yixing. I already knew Cheng Xiaoyang was sitting there I can't help but kidnap Qiao Yixing. This free-spirited and unfilial daughter is about to get married, and she's hooking up with that Cheng Xiaoyang. You said you 'd have to wait until tomorrow. The front page news must be that Pei Yanzhou's bride dislikes him for being a cripple . The other wild men have run away. Anyone who has hurt me or rejected me can't think of anything better than the master and his wife . People from the Pei family are here, and they are all waiting for the brides downstairs. They are walking around and touching up their makeup. Congratulations, thank you, thank you, He Ling . Happy days are difficult My eldest brother can't even do the wedding in person. I 'm afraid that my disabled eldest brother has even forgotten how to walk. Second young master, please mind your own business. Uncle and aunt have to wait for the bride to be shy and timid before dressing up, uncle. Aunt, are you here to pick up Yiyue ? You should wait a little longer. Isn't Yan Zhou here yet? Isn't that right ? Isn't He Ling here ? My eldest brother must have entrusted him to pick up my wife. Of course, I walked here in person to pick up my wife. What's wrong with you? I stood up suddenly However, you walked to pick up my wife in person. Why did you suddenly stand up ? Congratulations, Mr. Pei, congratulations, Mr. Pei. Congratulations, Mr. Pei. Why is Pei Yanzhou's leg healed ? Yes, Xingxing is running away from marriage . How can I explain this ? Isn't this wrong? This and that. Just let the moon Yue married him . Qiao Yixing escaped from marriage. Pei Yanzhou's legs are healed. Isn't this an opportunity for Yueyue? Go and bring Yueyue down . Go call my wife . Yiyue, you are fine. I'm here to pick up Qiao Yixing . Where is Yanzhou Xingxingxing ? She escaped from marriage to Pei Yanzhou, Qiao Yixing did this because our Qiao family is sorry for you. The person who was originally engaged to Pei Yanzhou was Yiyue and Xingxing. Now that Xingxing can't be found, they asked Yiyue to marry you, right, right, anyway . You two are also getting married, right? Look at today's wedding. Everyone knows about it. Pei Yanzhou, you don't want everyone to laugh at you and say you don't have a bride. It's really an eye-opener. The Qiao family only has one daughter, and she has to give it to her younger brother. Brother? Yueyue you? Do you really think so in your heart ? Or are you saying that someone is forcing you? I'm sorry, Pei Hangyu. I have always loved Yan Zhou. I want to give Yan Zhou happiness. If it weren't for her, it doesn't matter whether we are married or not. Can I still attend my wedding? Can you still attend your own wedding? Why are you here ? Did n't you elope with that Cheng Xiaoyang? I didn't elope with him . Who are you lying to? The whole family saw you coming out with him early in the morning. I know that you love Nadu in your heart. It's Cheng Xiaoyang, go quickly Wash and put on your makeup. Promise me that you will stun everyone today. From now on, just be yourself . Come on, Yan Zhou. Where is your husband? I'm not your husband. Don't yell at me. You know you knew Qiao Yixing eloped with someone else before marriage. Why did you still marry her? I'm curious how you knew that she eloped with someone else instead of being kidnapped. Well, how could Cheng Xiaoyang kidnap her if she has always liked Qiao Yixing ? If she likes it, she won't kidnap her. Have you ever heard that if you don't get it, you will destroy it? That's good I got married and my brother and I were separated. How could a brother steal his bride? Come with me , my bride Jiang A*88888. I didn't run away from the marriage and I didn't elope. I know your sister said in public that she wanted to marry me . Don't want to know How is Pei Hangyu going to deal with her? Come on , hurry up. I am sincere to you. You are so full of heart and eyes. My brother is my brother. What can I do ? My parents forced me to marry Pei Yanzhou. Is it up to me to make the decision? It's not up to me to get engaged or get married. It's not up to me. You don't know how difficult it is for me. It's your parents. Do you want me to go against my parents? You don't know how uncomfortable I feel. You still beat me because I'm afraid that you only have my brother Xiao Liu in your heart . Let's go. Come home quickly and see me, sister Sister, I have suffered a little. Then guess why the wedding was not cancelled ? Isn't it the same old thing ? It's all forced on me by the Qiao family. What can I, a weak woman, do? Congratulations, happy wedding. Eat well and drink well. Thank you. You're here to attend despite your busy schedule. We must have good food and drink at the wedding . You and the Pei family must be lucky enough to get married together. Yan Zhou had an accident and his temper was bad. I thought about Hangyu and he had to look at his brother's face when he lost his temper . Pei Yanzhou didn't. Are you okay? I just watched him walk away outside. Yan Zhou is done . How is Grandpa Yan Zhou 's legs so good? Tell me about the medical miracle. I don't want people to laugh at me. My wife is married to a disabled person. So I worked hard and really stood up. Get up, do you think I'm a fool? Auntie, why are you so angry ? I'm fine . Shouldn't you be happy? Of course I'm happy. Director Jiang, what happened to our project? I had an accident some time ago. I was recuperating my body. At that time, Director Jiang took the initiative and started a lot of money-losing projects. Now that he is well, these projects have been stopped. You You Zhi, you betrayed me. I always only cooperate with smart people. Since Pei Yanzhou is the smartest in the Pei family , I naturally want to cooperate with him. Auntie , you don't know people well. You think you can cover the sky with just one hand after I'm disabled. Mom, Pei Yanzhou, I won't let you go. Shouldn't you thank me? You can marry the woman you like without me. Do n't embarrass them. Okay Listen to you, today is our wedding day, of course we have to be happy . Today is the third wedding day. Don't spoil the fun. Everyone is here. We are all attending the wedding. When Zixing came over, I didn't ask you how your hand was injured because it was caught by the car window. Cheng Xiaoyang used medicine to knock me out and when I woke up, he refused to let me go. I wanted to jump out of the window. My hand was injured like this and I had to force him to die before he would send me back . Are you coming back because you like me or are you afraid that I will take revenge on the Cheng family ? I want to be with you. I want to live an ordinary daily happy life with you. I had a moment today. I think you will leave me. You have so little confidence in yourself. Fortunately, you are back. On the wedding night, whatever you said would be better, we are an old married couple and go to bed. Sir, we will hold a celebration banquet at the club. He Ling said that there will be a celebration banquet. Let's go together and forget it. I can bear it. I 'm injured. I'll have a good rest at home so that I can wait until I come back. Your wedding night was so sad. Don't you care if your husband met another woman at the club ? What's the wedding night? We are both an old couple and it's no longer fresh. So don't talk about sister. I don't She is looking after you but she sees her own Bai Yueguang. What Bai Yueguang is, you really don't know. No wonder you and she are so close . We share the same sentiment and are closer than my own sister. Let's talk about the key point: You Zhi, Pei Yanzhou's partner . Once Xiang You Zhi You proposed to her, why did you show that you like me again? Why did you come back so late? A few friends had a drink to celebrate our victory. Are you celebrating the victory or going to meet the person you really like ? You were confused by my sleep. I 've been thinking for the past few days that the matter is over. Can I take the money and leave? Are you leaving because of Cheng Xiaoyang? Why did you bring him up again? We agreed at the beginning and it's done. I'm leaving. So you've been acting these days, right ? Did you sleep well last night ? Yan Zhou, what happened to you and Yixing ? Is that what you should call Yan Zhou ? You can call me whatever Pei Hangyu calls me . Don't call me wrong in the future. In order to avoid letting outsiders hear that our Pei family is chaotic and does not distinguish between seniority and seniority. She may like you too much. So many people like me. Do I have to go back to like you one by one ? I don't know you , and who is the person you really like? Others told me what you two were talking about as newlyweds. You had a quarrel right after you got married. It seems that your relationship is not very good. If you tell me more about my love life, please get out of here. Since you approve of Qiao Yixing and her I found out that the second daughter of the Qiao family was abused by her family since she was a child . I know that Cheng Xiaoyang was her first love and was packed and thrown out of the country because of her resistance to her parents . For Qiao Yixing, Manyang even resisted and threw her out of the country. The country. Due to external forces, Qiao Yixing's position in her heart can never be replaced by her sister. I am not close to Qiao Yixing. He is so incompetent and unable to protect her. He dares to take her to elope and ask He Ling to invite him. I want to meet him personally. Mr. Cheng , your tutor wants you to steal other people's wives . You can't tell who to grab . She doesn't love you at all. You don't love her either. Cheng Xiaoyang, stop talking. Xingxing said that she feels at ease with Mr. Pei from childhood to adulthood. It's all Yixing's consideration for us. Let's be brave for her. What's wrong ? You pampered young man, why don't you let go ? I'm wondering if you wouldn't have done this kind of thing if you didn't have these legs. Mr. Pei, I understand, okay? Can I borrow your wheelchair for a while? What are you doing? Mr. Pei , don't worry, I will marry him. You want to marry Cheng Xiaoyang. Why don't you bless me so suddenly ? I'm going to marry the person I've liked since childhood. Does he like you too? It doesn't matter. I'm the only one between the two of us . You can walk away from your love Go to Zixing. No matter what the relationship between you and Cheng Xiaoyang was before, I beg you to stay away from him, okay? Cheng Xiaoyang, what happened to him? Xiaoyang, he lost a leg to take you away privately to atone for his sin. His leg cannot be cured. Today, I specially After getting off work early, we booked a restaurant to eat together. What's wrong ? You hurt Cheng Xiaoyang's leg. Why did you stand up for him ? He held my wife hostage. I just taught him a lesson , but I'm back. You love him so much . I told Cheng Xiaoyang that he is my savior without him. I wouldn't be able to live with him today Why don't you marry him when he 's so good? I advise you to give up on this idea. You are already mine. Miss You still has some tricks. This investigation report on Qiao Yixing's past has made me, the eldest brother , Qiao Yixing, self-defeating . Our feelings for Cheng Xiaoyang are our best I advise you to go back and test your wife's weapon to see if she has an excuse for not wanting to sleep with you. Stop thinking about Pei Yanzhou. He is mine. She dares to slap me in the face because of my little indulgence to her . My wife actually cries for another man. She always seems to It can affect your emotions. Pei Yanzhou, you were not like this before. People are different when they get married. Don't ask me what I like. I will go for it myself . As for her , I have to ask you. What is the happiest thing she has ever received? The last time she received a bride price Pei is very happy when he has money Yanzhou, I won't let you fall into her hands. Are you still angry with me? Don't you see what I want to give you ? Limited to: Y=580 for shares participating in the Pei Group, 000, 000). The dividend amount will be adjusted by factors such as conditional RMB, lowercase policy, etc., but should not be less than the above amount. According to the profit status of Pei's Group, 2%, how much can I get in a year ? As long as you sign, these are all yours. It's useless if you give me money. I can't accept that you ruined his legs. It's Liang Xiaoxiao. I did it by myself. I never thought about destroying him . If you destroy him, you will always have him in your heart. Then don't look for them again. They will. Live your life well. I promise you that you provoked me first. I went to He Ling and asked him to order a dress for me to attend my good friend's engagement party . My dear star, I came to see you. Didn't we agree that we would only come? Take a look at the stars to see if she is doing well. You see, Pei Yanzhou is very obedient to the stars, right? Congratulations . Ah, my childhood sweetheart has entered the palace of marriage. Xingxing , are you happy to marry him ? Hey, Cheng Xiaoyang, does your leg hurt ? No, it doesn't hurt. I'm fine. Xingxing , don't be afraid to tell me how you and he are doing. I'm fine. You said last time. I hope I will be happy. I said yes. Do you remember? How can Xingxing make you happy? He is so domineering, ignorant and cruel. He just treats you as a tool to use, Mr. Cheng, I couldn't bear it a long time ago . If it weren't for Zixing, don't always ask me if I 'm happy. I have the ability to make myself happy. You just saw me when I was helpless when I was a child . You are a hero in my world, but we have grown up and I don't need your saving anymore. Do you understand? But they said you were abused by Pei Yanzhou. I don't have Pei Yanzhou. He is very good to me. I hope you believe me instead of other people's words. Thank you. It seems that the two of them have reconciled. I didn't expect Qiao Yixing to be so easy to coax. Pei Yanzhou can be settled with a little money . How much did Pei pay her? He has never been so kind to me. That's 2% of Pei 's Group 's shares . Go back and ask your parents to get it from Qiao Yixing. According to Pei's current situation, he can even give you 100. What can you do with two-quarters of the price ? What do you have to say? Don't scare the snake. We can't win over Pei Yanzhou with just those shares . But what we lack is allies . But besides your You family, who else can fight against the Pei family? You are talking about contacting the Qin family. That's right. Back then, Pei Yanzhou was in the Qin family . Hibiki's hand fell over the heel Now that I 've woken up, I'll give you the company's share transfer agreement first. Why, I don't understand the company's affairs. I have this agreement in my hands. I'm afraid someone will wonder how the Qiao family can still take my Pei's shares from you. I don't think so. Someone can't wait to feed it Xing, go home for dinner tonight , daddy, I have something to discuss with you. Look what I said. It's not right to recruit people. How could anyone know about the shares I gave you privately ? Do you need me to accompany you back? You don't have to, I can do it myself. Stars, hand over all Pei's shares Mom and dad, let's help you manage your girl. It's not appropriate to have so many shares. Pei Yanzhou didn't even say it was inappropriate. It's strange that it was something Pei Yanzhou gave me privately. How did you know about Xingxing ? Mom and dad are doing it for your own good. Then you don't understand the company. Manage parents Mom will help you manage it. What's wrong with that? I've already given things to others. You don't care who wants them . Pei Yanzhou . How can you give it to Pei Yanzhou? That's what belongs to Pei Yanzhou . What 's wrong with me giving it to him? I have to go back. Pei Yanzhou is still waiting for me. It turns out to be You Zhi. Letting her go once, Ms. You Zhi, is a betrayal. She betrayed you. She has a good grasp of her position. She will always be the You family. As long as I am the CEO of the Pei family, she will not openly quarrel with me. I think You Miss Zhi does this because she likes Huan you , you are the first person to propose to her , you are special to her. In the past, I thought marriage was just a business game . You Zhi is a good partner. If I had known earlier, I would have met Qiao Yixing . I don't think I would do something like that. Then I'll go help Madam. Get the dress. Tomorrow is the day of Cheng Xiaoyang's engagement. Don't bother me. I've already gone to get it myself . Do you want to stay for dinner? He won't stay . Let's go. I'll take you to change clothes. Mr. Pei has a good project and he must take care of us. Mr. Pei, you are welcome. If you are young and promising, you will have to pay more attention in the future. Take care of us. Don't worry, come and let us have a drink with Mr. Pei. Come on, Mr. Pei, Mr. Pei . Excuse me. Mr. Pei , why did you come here just now ? Mrs. Pei , today is your best friend's big day. Why are you here so late? Something happened to delay us. Dear all, here comes Dear relatives and friends, welcome everyone to come and join me and Xiaoxiao's wedding today. I'm just sad and sighing. I see that Cheng Xiaoyang doesn't really want to marry Xiaoxiao's star. I thought you would always be with Cheng Xiaoyang . I didn't expect it to turn out like this. Like this Thinking about it, Cheng Xiaoyang and your parents dared to resist because of this . Isn't it great now? Me and Yan Zhou, you and Pei Hangyu, Cheng Xiaoyang and Xiao Xiao, I have to thank my sister for all this. My sister will remember your kindness for a lifetime. Pei Yanzhou, your wife's mouth is. Very strong It's not like we are the protagonists today. We always watch what we do. Love in this life is everlasting. Love is growing day by day. After reading this, it's time to go home. Get out of your way , Pei Yanzhou. I'm jealous of the way you look at him. Even if I helped you when you were a child, you don't have to remember everything so clearly. All It's over, isn't it? What's wrong with me hugging my wife in public ? It's indecent. You also have today. These are all temporary. It doesn't matter if you come out. I have something to ask you. Did you tell your parents about Qiao Yixing's shares ? I 'm done. It's no wonder that it's not enough and it's more than enough to ruin things. The bank took a detour as soon as it saw me. Pei Hangyu, your project funding chain is broken. Have you still forgotten Pei Yanzhou? Do you still have him in your heart? I do n't. Don't listen to her nonsense. I advise you to get out of here now. Go back and think it over with your parents I've said everything I need to say about how to get hold of Qiao Yixing. You Zhi has already told Cheng Xiaoyang to sleep with Qiao Yixing. After all, it's Qiao Yixing's hold on Qiao Yixing. So why can't I do it? I have raised such a beautiful daughter for free . She used to act ugly and you were ready to have sex with her. Now that she is so beautiful, you may have dreamed about her several times. Sister, you said at Pei's house that mom was sick and forced the old man to let me come back. Why are you still sitting here fine now? How can you let Miss Qiao Er go home without using this method ? I think you wish you would never want to step back again in this life. Enter the door of Qiao's house. You're right. I really don't want to continue playing the role of a loving family with you . You hear me ? I just told her . You are an unfamiliar white-eyed wolf. If we hadn't been kind enough to take you in, you thought you would be where you are today. When you were so young, no matter how Qiao Yiyue behaved, you all ignored me and you even had thoughts about me, my dear daughter . Don't listen to your mother's nonsense. She is not my mother . She committed suicide due to postpartum depression . Mom, you almost ruined my big event this time. If nothing happens, you Zhi may tell you how to torture me. You are so hot, Yan Zhou , don't make trouble with Xingxing. Look at who I am. Why are you here ? Why am I so uncomfortable? Xingxing. Someone called me to tell me to love you well. Are you willing to give it to me? Don't you love me anymore? Or are you afraid that Pei Yanzhou will be angry if he finds out? Don't worry, he will never know. Stars and stars, give them to me. Give it to me, please. Star, star, star, please don't run . Star, star, star, star , Yanzhou, come and save me. What's wrong with you? I'm at Qiao's house. I was drugged. It was Qiao's family that did it. We haven't finished talking yet. Do you want to help me? It was you who made the Qiao family attack Zixing. We have a mutual support relationship . Don't accuse me casually. There are many people in the Qiao family who can't stand her. Wake up. Is there any water? Are you feeling unwell? Have you been injured? I remember I called you at that time. When I rushed over, that boy Cheng Xiaoyang tied himself to a chair. He thought he was safe. We went home. Okay, stop crying and tell me what happened. I am not the daughter of the Qiao family. They drugged me to ruin my reputation and become Qiao. What's important about the daughter of the family ? The most important thing is Qiao Yixing, right? I won't let go of the Qiao family. I'll let He Ling accompany you wherever you go from now on , okay? Why is it because someone is manipulating the Qiao family behind the scenes to do something unfavorable to you? I guess that person is You Zhi, right? But you 'd better not provoke her. Zixing, I have a gift for you. This chain is for you. I apologized for You Zhi and gave it to me. I gave it to you to calm your shock. Do you think it looks good to you? Madam Twelve Million , doesn't it look good? Come with me to meet some good friends, okay? Yan Zhou is here. Come and introduce to you. This is this person . I told you how beautiful Yan Zhou's wife is. She is indeed beautiful. She is a peerless beauty. They are just helping me return to the home decoration and win the CEO title. Come on, let's have a drink together. You don't know Yan Zhou. He wasn't like this before. It's all your fault that he's like this now. I'm not interested in your past. It turns out that this twelve million bracelet in our family is actually I was bought by this guy Yan Zhou for 12 million . Oh my God, it's so expensive. I'll get to the bottom of it. What's going on, Ah Zhi , you didn't agree to Pei Yanzhou's proposal and now it's very ugly. What do you know? Pei Yanzhou can only be my Zixing. I don't care about other people's things. You don't need to apologize for her. I will stay away from him. Is a little enough? Zixing, why is she so angry and yelling at me? I can't bear it. If my husband is like her, I will be miserable. I don't want to hear these words again. I won't argue with you because of the things you helped me once. But don't push yourself and keep your limits. What do you mean? I know you and Pei Hangyu teamed up to deal with me. No, I don't want to deal with you. This behavior is out of bounds. Pei Yanzhou, did I say that there is always someone in my heart ? Now let me tell you that person. It's your kind of thing that has nothing to do with me. Yixing, I know it's our fault that the family framed you, but there's no need for you to destroy our Qiao family's livelihood. I don't know what you're talking about. Yiyue, don't kneel down, she 's going to take advantage of you. The person who wants to frame you is You Zhi. If you don't dare to target her, let Pei Yanzhou come and destroy our Qiao family. Are you still not the daughter of the Qiao family? Don't you know what you are today without the Qiao family ? You were able to marry Pei Yanzhou only because of our Qiao family . I was able to marry Pei Yanzhou because at that time you thought that Pei Yanzhou was not good enough, so you wanted to marry Pei Yanzhou. I threw it over and I was the Joe who was sacrificed. Yiyue, do you really know what you want? Yiyue, Yiyue, you don't have to worry. I will help you. No one can help. My Qiao family is finished . Even you will be finished together. We are finished . It won't happen. As long as I give up on Pei. With the inheritance rights of our family , we can escape unscathed . Why can't I do anything? Without me , I was so obedient. I used to be better than her in everything. Why are you obedient? Because you can benefit from everything. Isn't Qiao Yiyue happy with a life without responsibility? Pei Hangyu, why don't you trust your brother but trust You? Zhiyiyi Outsider, why would she help you ? It's because she has always wanted to get Mr. Pei. I know he told you clearly that the You family has always wanted to swallow Mr. Pei. Why don't you believe him ? You said such good things for my brother. You know that he also wants to marry You. Flowers? Of course I know he will buy gifts when you are angry. Why is he so interested in you? Those are the things You Zhi doesn't want. I have already returned them to him. He has already treated you like this . Do you still want to help him? No matter how he treats me, he can't change it. The earth will always stand on Pei's side. Yiyue, let's go. Qiao Yixing, are you really It's very different . You care about me. My purpose was to leave the Qiao family. Now it's done. It's time for me to leave the Pei family. I have something to say to you . You can tell me first. Zixing. We are going abroad. It's good to go abroad . After all, you have been living abroad before. If you don't return to your country, If so, maybe so many things wouldn't have happened. If he didn't go abroad, he would definitely not give up on you. Don't blame all the problems on yourself. You made it very clear that day that it was him who trapped himself . My words on the hero complex are too harsh , otherwise I won't seize the opportunity. Okay, stop worrying about others and live your own life. By the way, what did you want to say to me just now ? I originally wanted to tell you that I also made an appointment with someone for dinner today. I can't stay with you anymore. I'll leave first. It's better not to tell her my plan. It's about the divorce. Did you date Pei Yanzhou for dinner and I just cut off his hair ? Well, it doesn't affect you as a young couple. What kind of young couple are you dating ? I understand, you are shy. I seem to have seen Pei Yanzhou. I went to check out. What a coincidence . Zixing . Don't get me wrong, I originally made an appointment with him Yan Zhou wouldn't have come to the appointment if there weren't other people around . Did Ms. You mean that she misunderstood you and Yan Zhou? I know that Ms. You and Yan Zhou are friends and you helped Yan Zhou. If there is anything between you, then that's okay. It's not my turn , let alone my misunderstanding, isn't it? Stars, don't be angry Don't worry, I won't get angry with Yan Zhou over such a trivial matter. Otherwise, he will think that Miss You is a flower that can explain the language and I am an unreasonable shrew. I have something to do with my friends and I will leave first . I'll go back to Zim with you. It was you who invited me to that place. Who knows that You Zhi is also there in the restaurant , so you had a meal with her and chatted with her for the whole day. She was very happy, right? I saw who was so happy . She just teamed up with Pei Hangyu and almost caused my project to go bankrupt. If I hadn't found out in time , now Pei's CEO is Pei Hangyu . Only when some of us work together to make some achievements can I return to the Pei family. Now that she betrayed me, I can only smile and let her go. After all, she gave me support when I was in danger. If you gain power, they are your friends . If there is a conflict of interest , they will betray you , so you are the one The unique thing is that you stood by me from the beginning and stopped being angry . Did Zixing get angry with you today when he went back ? The reason for the quarrel is because we are husband and wife. If there is anything we can discuss with Pei Yan. &quot;Zhou, what's the matter with you? You're a strict wife. You have Zixing listening to everything. What are you looking for me about? I made an appointment with someone else at the club to make amends to you. Do you want me to go with you ? I can handle it. You wait at home.&quot; Why haven't I come back so late ? Your call came just in time for Pei Yan. Zhou is drunk. Come and pick him up. After drinking today, I'll pay for it . You guys, drink, drink, don't stop. Sorry to bother you. I want to ask if there is anyone named Pei Yanzhou here. What? Pei Yanzhou, let's go and drink. Beauty, no need. I'm here to find someone. Aren't you here to find someone? Let 's go. Come on , beauty. Isn't this just for drinking? Help, drink, give me a drink . Don't come here. Can anyone help me call the police ? This man wants to molest me . I see you are toasting me . If you do n't eat, I will kill you . Don't do it. Don't be afraid if I'm coming. Don't be afraid. Pei Yanzhou is yours. Why did you ask her to come for the car key ? We drank so much and couldn't drive. I asked Zixing to pick you up because I was worried about you. Is it wrong for me to care about you? I didn't expect that I would encounter so many people just by asking her to come and pick someone up. It's something you and I don't want to see now You, He Ling , stopped all the projects with Youjia . Zixing , don't do this. It's not your fault. Zixing is not my fault. It's your fault . Didn't you say that you won't meet? Why did you go to see her again ? She said to let me I 'm going to pick you up. Why should I pick you up ? I'm sorry. That person is disgusting . I'm so afraid that it's not your fault . Nothing like this will happen in the future. I promise you that nothing like this will happen in the future . Pei Yanzhou, let's get a divorce. How long have you been preparing for it? The first time I asked you to have dinner, I had already planned to discuss a divorce agreement with you. Why are you saying it now that I was too greedy before? But I found that greed will only make me unlucky. There is nothing between you and me except 2% of Pei's shares. I don't want it anymore. I can't get divorced. There is nothing between us. No , if you have a child, will you leave? You are crazy. The child is not a tool to tie me up. I found that you just don't listen when I talk to you . Do you think I am the kind of person who only thinks with his lower body? If I don't like it Why do you want to be with you ? But you Don't let me mess with You Zhi. I don't want you to mess with her because she is very capable . I'm afraid that you will suffer. So she is not your fiancee , and she is not your Bai Yueguang, but I don't deny that I proposed to her. Before you, I always thought we were the kind of people Marriage is nothing more than running another company. Naturally, you need to find the right person. The idea of people like you is too strange. Why did she reject you? I don't know. Maybe she felt that I was not worthy of her at the time . She likes you. People like you stay in an environment of intrigue. Long I always hope that someone will really treat me. She appreciates your ability, but you don't like her enough. You actually have the mind to care about other people's affairs. I don't care what she likes. I just like you. If I had known that she thought this way, I would have I won't agree with her being with us, but she is still your partner. There are no permanent friends, only permanent interests. She has been on my opposite side for a long time. Why did you agree to marry me? Of course, it is out of my sincerity. Some things are still there . It's better to be a little confused It's enough for you to like me now. Who said I like you? Then tell me when you plan to like me. Do you say it? You say it? You say what happened to Pei Yanzhou today is because I didn't think carefully. How about I invite you to dinner tomorrow to apologize ? It's because you stopped the Youjia project You just came to me to beg for peace, right? You defended her like this. She hasn't recovered yet. Since you invited me in good faith, of course I will go. Today's appointment is mainly because Yan Zhou was almost cheated by his recklessness a while ago. I hope Yan Zhou won't argue with me. Come to us for a specially prepared drink and hangover Let's have a drink together, come on, come on, let's have a toast. Miss You, you have betrayed your alliance with your husband a long time ago . I punish myself. I hope Yan Zhou won't argue with me . Is it delicious? Yan Zhou and Azheng didn't mean it. Let's just forget about it. Yes, Yan. Zhou, don't be so stingy. Come and drink . Come, come, come. I'm talking about the past. I don't know if our previous friendship will be a bit unhappy. I can't get in the conversation. No, I'm not unhappy. I see there are quite a lot of delicious food here. I'm eating delicious food. That's good. I'll do it. I'm afraid you think we won't take you with you when we chat How can I be angry? I'm not a primary school student and I'm not angry with anyone who doesn't talk to me. Yiyue, why don't you say anything? I remember that you talked a lot when you were Pei Yanzhou's fiancee . You don't have to bother targeting us. We are now There is nothing left. Brother also promised us to let us eat abroad, okay? This restaurant is delicious, but it is a bit flashy. The portion is not enough. Since you have not apologized to my wife , we will go back and treat me next time. Wife made rude remarks and taught me a lesson It's not just about stopping Youjia's project. Pei Yanzhouxue, do you think we can only cooperate with Pei? I tell you, there are many people who are willing to support me. Is it really okay that you don't give Youzhi face in public? This time we announced the suspension. What we lost from the cooperation was only the first-phase payments of the two projects, but what we gained in exchange was Youjia's The stock price crashed because she was so eager to show her favor to me. You Zhi thought she knew the details of her husband. What she just said had to prevent you from finding out who was showing favor to her. I did notice that our old rival Qin Xiang met a while ago. Who is Qin Xiang, the old rival of You Zhi? His methods are very ruthless and it would be a headache to meet him. Just keep an eye on You Zhi. But I don't think he will fight against me for You Zhi . But You Zhi will fight against you. If they are a husband and wife , will it be difficult to deal with them? Why think so much? As long as the benefits are big enough, the relationship between husband and wife is nothing. I'm just afraid that You Zhi will lose her mind and do something that she will regret. Mr. Madam, Miss You, she is married to the Qin family, so she is a bit powerful . In order to get revenge on you , she just married someone at random. She is indeed the heir trained by the You family. It is indeed You Zhi's style. Her marriage was traded away by her. A handsome man and a beautiful woman from the rich circle are married to a famous entrepreneur who is a billionaire in this city. Qin's applause will have a party with the industry giant You's Group's daughter. It seems that Youjia's stock price has been saved. You Zhi is really a smart person . So what can you do? To be honest, if they really join forces, I really have no idea, sir. We have not yet established a firm foothold in Pei's Group. If we stabilize, we may still be able to give it a try . How can we stabilize our shares? As long as we have 4% more shares, Mr. Pei's Group will be There is a veto right, that is, just find someone to buy the stock. The problem is that we don't know who to buy the stock . What does it mean? Aren't the stocks all registered? Just check it. According to the law, in order to facilitate the transaction of 5% of the shares You can keep her name anonymous . You told her so much about what she was doing and she was so worried that she couldn't eat. Oh, why are you still so calm? Because I know my mother has 4. 5% of the shares, but how can you obtain this share after the wife has been dead for so many years and has no relevant documents ? You are guessing that the document is in You Zhi's hands. This is unreasonable. When Miss You decided to help Mr., she just needs to take it out and Mr. has not had to work so hard these years. She is not helping Yan Zhou , she just wants to see my strength. She has 4. With 5% of the shares, you can change your position at any time. This is in line with You Zhi's idea. If it is really in her hands, she will marry the Qin family with such an important thing . If I mean, is it possible that her mother-in-law's will is also there? Inside, she left the shares to Yan Zhou. This idea was a fluke. My mother passed away so suddenly. No one knew about this document. So how did you know about this document? My dad. My dad picked me up just for the 4% of the shares. Don't be too sad. I'm not sad. Anyway, I don't have a deep impression anymore . I just remember his face when he kicked me and my mother out of the house. If there is any difficulty, she will come to our door. The invitations have been sent, so let's go and find out. You rich people, you can just live a good life, but there are too many things to fight for every day, even if you don't, Mr. I'm fighting for other people and waiting to eat him alive. I'm not as fragile as you think. I'm afraid that you'll lose your mind and try to steal the marriage. Think about it, her goal is you. If you steal the marriage, she'll have both face and dignity. Maybe she 'll be happy when she's happy. I'll give you the documents. There's an opening online. You don't know how to place bets. Will I go to rob a marriage? Xiao Bet Yiqing . Why don't you give up on me? A man worth billions is still playing this. It's a little trick. Oh, I'm still a little rich woman. Then you have to be careful. If you choose the wrong person, I will kick you. You kicked me. Who asked you to kick me? Well, it's getting late. We should go out. You Zhi, isn't it your wedding today? Why are you here with us? Pei Yanzhou, I can give you one last chance. You don't think I will go and steal the bride? This is the Pei family left by your mother 4. 5% of the shares. As long as I give it to Jiang Ning, you will have to step down. You can give it to anyone you want. Pei's CEO, it's no big deal. You have changed . In the past, you had to fight for every benefit . But now you are even fighting for Pei's for her. Don't you want any of the shares ? These things are no longer important to me. I used to wish you could give up your interests for me , but why is it her ? Obviously the person you proposed to first was me. I know there must be something wrong with her, right? yes Why why did everything change after meeting her ? She was just a pawn. If it weren't for dealing with Jiang Ning, would you care about a broken family like the Qiao family? So when you first met me, you just regarded me as a clown , otherwise you What do you think you are? You Zhi , a bastard of unknown origin from the Qiao family, to Zixing Sorry, why did I say something wrong? You said it right. I am indeed not a child of the Qiao family , but I know what kind of person I want to be. Today is a good day. You should go back to the hotel and be a beautiful bride. Come in. She looks so much like her. Auntie, stop looking at you. Where is your wife? Can you leave? This is Mr. Pei 4. 5% share description: As long as you help me kill Pei Yanzhou, I will give it to you. Pei Yanzhou, if I take over, you may step down. You can give it a try . It's getting late. It's time for you two to go back to the hotel. I believe all the guests in the room are waiting. Let's go with my best wishes. In fact , now that I think about it, You Zhi is quite pitiful and you begin to sympathize with her. They are all women. Why should women do this? Dear friends , please be quiet first. Next, our beautiful bride and groom will be invited to appear. Mr. Qin, would you like to marry Miss You Zhi ? If the wedding doesn't work out, I'll let you travel home and be buried with you. I'm willing to do it. I can't stand it anymore. I'm going to use the toilet. Thank you everyone. Next, I invite the bride and groom to toast to everyone. What do you want? Pei Yanzhou makes me embarrassed, then I will strip you naked and let him taste the shame . You are such an interesting person. Others make you look bad. You strip him. What are you doing to me? What are you doing ? Are you okay? It's okay. It's fine. If Pei Yanzhou catches something, it will be difficult. Oh, by the way, Miss Qiao is disgusting. I want to ask, is your father Qiao Zhengnan? Yes, no. How do you say this? But I did call Qiao Zhengnan dad for more than 20 years. I see , you don't want to tell me that you also have a crush on her. How could it be? I will only fall in love with you at first sight, right? Is this the announcement you sent to the media? It 's time for us to toast everyone lovingly . Is everything okay? Why did it take so long? Why are my hands so cold ? I'd better not tell him. I wore a skirt today and I can't eat anything. Maybe I'm a little hypoglycemic. Why don't you go back early and I'll cook noodles for you ? OK, wait a minute . Can you eat the noodles you made? Try it. I will know what the problem is. If you don't believe me, I will Forget it, forget it , you're wasting food . If you don't want to eat it , I'll eat it myself . It smells really good. Go and finish all your noodles for me. You're so cruel. Then I'll eat with you later. You cook in the dark, are you really not worried at all? Your shares are still in the hands of your mortal enemy and nothing has happened. What's the use of worrying ? I guess Qin Xiang will negotiate with me directly. Why as long as the benefit I give is big enough? Why did you only eat a little? You have no appetite . Don't worry. I'll go out to have a meeting with He Ling in a while . If you were really fine , why would you go out for a meeting all night? He really can't even lie. Qin Xiang took action. It's really earth-shattering. Several projects were taken over by him. After stopping the cost war , he wants to drag us to death. What's worse is that there are already rumors outside that Qin Xiang owns Pei's shares and plans to trade them to Jiang Ning privately as long as Jiang Ning gets these 4. With 5% of the shares, she can activate the company's articles of association and remove you. If Jiang Ning can't give you a good price, Qin Xiang won't sell. He is forcing me, but You Zhi may not be able to do anything. Stay calm and don't be impatient. The key to breaking the situation now is this project. As long as the research and development of this project is successful, even if the company's articles of association are launched, those old antiques will not remove me. The problem is that the research and development has encountered a bottleneck . Tell me what to do with me. I don't have time to listen to your nonsense. I hope you can give Pei Yanzhou a chance to negotiate. Qiao Yixing, are you? What status You dare to talk to me like this, Miss Qiao, you don't seem to be, Pei Yanzhou's wife, do you know that I hate your status the most , don't you pay attention to interests the most? I don't care if Pei Yanzhou can give you interests . I used to put interests first , but now I just want to make myself happy. What conditions do you need before you are willing to give Pei Yanzhou a chance? You are quite smart. With your background, you really can't bring any benefits to him . I want you to leave him and tell him that everything you did to him in the past is nothing. is fake Why don't you dare? Why do I remember that when you were married as a substitute, you still negotiated terms with him? Qiao Yixing, how brave are you? If I do this , you can let him go . I don't know , but if you do this, I will be very happy . When you are happy, anything will happen . Why can't you let go? 133 Get some rest early. Come on, what's the matter? You haven't had time to accompany me recently. Taiwanese fashion brand Wen's new autumn and winter fur collection. Goodbye Pei Yanzhou. I have left him. I also left him a letter. He did well . Wait until I see Pei Yanzhou's reaction . Decide whether to give him a chance or not. I hope you keep your promise 6119 I'm leaving . Answer the phone. My wife is in trouble. She saw You Zhi during the day. As expected of Pei Yanzhou's woman, she is of high quality. You know that I am Pei Yanzhou's woman. If you still don't let me go, aren't you afraid that they will take revenge on you? Take revenge . I want to know how he will take revenge on me. Of course we know that when you follow us, your husband will still be your husband. He won't let me go , but he won't let you go either . By the time he takes revenge on us, we two brothers have already been there. You are so happy overseas . Who asked you to come here ? You Zhi , how much money did they give you? I can give you more. Isn't it just for money that you risk offending Pei Yanzhou ? Don't talk nonsense to her . Don't worry, you can't escape today. Who are you ? What are you doing? Yixing, let me go. Are you okay? Sorry, I'm late. Pei Yanzhou , I'm okay. You can let go of me. Mr. Qin, why are you talking to me? Yan Zhou is together. It's a long story . Let's ask the mastermind first what's going on. Bring the people in and let me go. When they come, I'll take them out first. Let me go. Your life is really big, Qin. Xiang, when did you hook up with Pei Yanzhou on the wedding day ? Why was it because of her? I asked you if you had a crush on her. You said you did n't. Why did you hook up with her? You want to lie to me. I didn't lie to you. Then tell me why she is such a bastard . Pei Yanzhou doesn't have the vision to fall in love with her. Forget it . Why do you have to help her ? Why do you tell me what benefits Pei Yanzhou has given you? Tell me. You said otherwise. I did n't give him any benefits. Mr. Qin took the initiative to find me. I thought I thought you were in trouble. I 'll tell you later about your affairs. By the way, I don't know why Mr. Qin took the initiative to come to me. Do you still have any impression of you when you were a child? I remember that I was adopted by the Qiao family. Other than that, I don't remember anything. What about her? Do you have an impression of her? Mr. Qin, I'll give it a try too. I had the mentality to do a DNA test. It turns out that you are my sister , my aunt's daughter, one of the heirs of the Qin family , hospital report date, how could I be, how could I be your sister, scientifically proven that you are from the Qin family, your mother , my aunt, is from the Qin family. When the eldest lady fell in love with her bodyguard , she had a falling out with her family and ran away from home. Qiao Zhengnan said that my mother is dead and my father is also dead. My aunt will definitely be targeted by her enemies after she leaves home. Grandpa had already found her when he found her. After asking around, I found out that she had a daughter . Do you know where she is buried? If you have time, go visit your aunt. She must really want to know how you are doing now. This is my wedding gift to you. I hope my sister I can't be happy , I can't, you can't give it back to him. You said you said you would help me beat him to death. We are a family, so we can maximize our benefits, right? You are all crazy. She is a bastard. Everyone is crazy. Crazy, Mr. Qin, why don't you go over and have a look? She will figure it out. I'll take Zixing back first. You can go by yourself. My sister won't go with you. I didn't bring any clothes. I don't have anything to change. I will find someone to prepare it for you. I have a change of clothes , and my skin care products. I have them all ready and will bring them to you in a moment . I will take the bed. Before you married Pei Yanzhou, you were living alone in You should be very used to it. I married Pei Yanzhou . Had a wedding We are a legal couple. Look, you can't keep calm at all. I just want to see how much Pei Yanzhou likes you. Believe it or not, if he appears in front of me now , I will elope with him right away . I will never talk to you again. 300 stars Mr. Pei is so secretive that he is not afraid of embarrassment. My wife is already gone . Why do you want to lose face ? I told you that I will run away with him as soon as he appears in front of me. You really look like your aunt, no matter what, you can't stop me. Let me tell you secretly that when I found him, he told me that even if there was no Pei family , he would still be with you. You are luckier than your aunt. Go back and cook some noodles for me .