Farming in America could not exist without John Deere. I don't care where you are, in the rural parts of and you're inevitably going Specifically in the Midwest where people who've had Deere say that their family bleed green, it's really to that extent. But John Deere's tractors aren't the only thing bleeding green. John Deere is on pace to have its most profitable year ever. John Deere is forecast to make about $7.7 billion That would be a record. But while John Deere shareholders and executives could not be happier, John Deere has been in Between a massive union and a legal battle with farmers concerning equipment repairs John Deere must convince their that they care about This is The Breakdown. There's a saying that you'll hear either Deere say or other people say, &quot;If farmers are profiting, And Deere wants to do everything they can to make those farmers Since the pandemic hit in 2020, and millions of Americans buying nothing but groceries, became even more essential and both profited a Because the machines that they make are essential to an industry that has to provide an not only in the United John Deere's profits during the pandemic are eye-popping, and that wealth has like CEO, John May, who brought a 160% raise. And according to our Bloomberg data, he's gonna make about 30 million So you're talking about for the CEO earnings. Shareholders also saw in part because of John Buybacks are a piece of financial to repurchase shares of its own stock to reduce the number of which in-turn creases the ownership stake for the shareholders. The stock buybacks for So in the past 12 months, they bought back $1.9 billion in stock, and they bought back 716 million alone in their fiscal third quarter of 2021. One group who thought they were not sharing in that wealth, John Deere factory workers. So the optics are obviously looking bad for the company now that a labor strike has broken out among part of their workforce. During this boom time, Deere offered their that's when over 10,000 who worked for John Deere went on strike. I had one person in particular say, &quot;Our CEO is about to make $10 than he did last year. The company is seeing The stock price is surging, and yet we're the group who and past down economic cycles we took cuts.&quot; After the union turned down two contracts, John Deere was finally in late November, which doubled raises and improved pensions for union members. Those employees that are are immensely valuable employees to us. We're super proud of where It's groundbreaking in a lot of ways, both from near-term wage increases, as well as the retirement It's super helpful to in the factories, and what the opportunities for whatever the operation happens to be to make the lives of those that So while John Deere workers fought and won their the company has brought in farmers are still in when it comes to repairing So a lot of farms our size We use old technology, My name is Tom Brandt, and you are currently I am a farmer and also a State Senator. I represent district 32 Salem, and Southwestern Lancaster counties here in Nebraska. The State of Nebraska's agriculture is the fourth largest We feed way more people than just the 1.96 million people here in the State of Nebraska. The farm that you're on to Southeast Nebraska. We rotate corn and soybeans. It takes hundreds of thousands of dollars to operate a small farm like this. Our margins are razor thin. Farming is an industry where we buy retail and we sell wholesale. While the principles of farming remain the same, the equipment used to farm This is a 1952 Allis-Chalmers WD. This is the style of tractor I grew up on in the '60s and '70s. This tractor has not It's tough, and it works. And this is what American farm Farming equipment for both John Deere and has become much more in the past two decades. A little after 2000, tractors changed from being strictly just a power source and got to be a lot more computerized. Now they're all basically where there's no physical connection between any of our except a piece of wire. And every generation tractor since is even more computerized. It surprises people every day how technologically whether that's GNSS satellite or whether it's the digital information that comes off those equipment enable them to make better This is the main computer It can show us moisture, it can show us some various 20 years ago, our irrigated corn probably yielded 150, This last crop we just harvested, we did 250 bushels to the acre. So if your crops are gaining you're gonna need bigger, And those bigger, faster machines have increased productivity over the past 70 years, and US farmers now produce of about 175 bushels an acre. And then the really valuable information that starts to move markets is So now one of these enormous in real time, through this modem, under the farmer's rear end back to Deere and who knows where, Exactly how much corn or on that farm acreage at that moment. It's really staggering. We get a lot more done in the day. We can work longer hours, especially with the auto-steer, We can get a lot more hours in, we're not tired at the end of the day. So the efficiency factor Unfortunately, like all electronics, it doesn't always work. And that's where there's a catch. While the technology in a makes farming easier than ever before, there are very real when it comes to repairing that equipment because as of right now, they can't. John Deere and other won't let farmers fix their own equipment without a licensed mechanic. For Deere and its dealerships, parts and services are three than sales of original equipment according to company filings. Historically, farmers have always repaired their own equipment. Farmers love to tinker, I will grant that. We all like to tinker with our equipment and we all modify our equipment. The right to repair gets that currently, farmers don't have access to the computer systems It doesn't matter whether or it's red Case, or AGCO's, they won't let us in on that. The thing that you fix on the tractor isn't necessarily a moving part, it may be something that has or hitting a reset We've had a few cases where we get an error code You look it up and it says, &quot;Call your dealer.&quot; So the dealer has to come out and they plug their and they have to diagnose We have operators who have had computer They have a newer tractor, It happens on a Friday, they gotta wait till they've lost 2 1/2 days. If they were given access they knew what they had And there are literally billions of dollars at when it comes to repairs. They make a lot of their from parts and repair because and that monopoly has been by these software controls No one else can work on 'em. Annual parts sales increased 23% to a $6.8 billion from 2013 to 2020, while Deere's total agricultural 20% to $22.3 billion. So there's very real money at stake when it comes to repair. If a right to repair law allowed parts and services it could be a huge blow to a vital income stream for the company. The farmers of the world say, &quot;We've been repairing Farmers know how to fix things, know how to keep things And by denying us that, you're essentially taking John Deere is also the target of a potential federal alleging antitrust violations John Deere declined to but said it meets company information, and software However, there is precedent when it comes to right to repair. The best way of explaining the right to repair is to As automobiles were built with more and more software and chips, it became more and more difficult to fix their car because of the software, you didn't have the tools to do that. So in 2012, the State of Massachusetts on light cars and trucks. They were the only state And what that did is that and made it possible for the mom and pop, to access I can tell you locally, we have a situation just like that. Last January of 2021, based on the fact that overwhelmingly wanted to we introduced one. That bill called LB543 was voted in favor 176 Yet right now, that bill sits in committee because it required repairing farm equipment like iPhones, computers and televisions. Our position's fairly straightforward. We believe that farmers have the right to repair their equipment. Where we draw the line and it generally involves that we put on the machines. Agricultural equipment is than it is really like aviation. You wouldn't want just anybody fixing and repairing because there is a safety component to it in the same way I think a is a fairly comparable situation. That's really where our to try to make sure that people and the risks associated that are currently happening in the space. While farmers are waiting for a ruling to be made some are taking matters by using gray market technology to run diagnostics on their own equipment. When you rebel against you hack it. And there are a number of farmers who've availed themselves and diagnostic software and other markets where things are sold without the proper licenses, or in this case, it's Right now, the right to repair is still moving forward. But its future is anything but certain. Currently, LB543 is sitting in committee and we chose to have it to allow all parties to and it's pretty much been crickets. But the human cry out here in People want more regulation or at least the opportunity They don't like seeing it in We'll keep working at it until we get it accomplished. I'm not afraid of a fight. I haven't met a farmer yet So we'll state our peace and