check out these performances from strawberry fields forever. paul the groovy triplet swing of ringo starr's drums. george harrison's indian scale arpeggios. and john lennon's speed-altered vocals. still fields came out when i was five years old. didn't of this record just grabbed me and never really later, strawberry field still ranks in my top five of course strawberry fields has been endlessly critics and listeners. this song is enshrined rock and roll hall of fame's 500 songs that like there's nothing left to say. but i haven't back into john lennon's nostalgic, otherworldly finest work with the Beatles. because you and i -- welcome back to the channel and another song and recordings and blow away the veneer of the which are the building blocks. so you can hear how now i really appreciate it when you guys tell me don't have more views. that's why i need your take a sec to like the video, subscribe and hit a comment to tell everyone what these songs mean all right, strawberry fields forever has some it was the fall of 66, the first time they revolver five months earlier. it was also the live tour, which they'd already announced fans were used to a near-constant stream of sometimes three, albums a year. so a few months of there were actually rumors the Beatles might EMI studios to record new music, it was actually actually the start of what would eventually strawberry fields and mccartney's nostalgic sister on the next Beatles album. but their record label so both of these legendary songs got released Now the brits were so thrifty and value songs from the Beatles singles on their lps, so singles only. they didn't become album cuts which was released in 73. so it's pretty ironic marked the end of four straight years of number double-A-side peaked at a disappointing number two there was some head-scratching about the new fields. despite the fact that i bought and loved here in the states. now the next christmas, 1967, out here, which added five songs to the uk's ep didn't like strawberry fields and penny lane but as a kid, i loved that they were there. extra-psychedelic follow-up to Sgt Pepper's. invest in a hi-fi stereo, so i was able to listen lost in it. i'm actually convinced this song has and why i'm sharing my enthusiasm with you fields forever. you probably know, the song pays there was a salvation army children's home in and he often used to walk by the gate and side note: the original strawberry field home in new york city, where john, yoko and their son watch this channel, you know that john lennon is and one major reason is that his songs sounded really came from another world, you know. poetically abstract lyrics. but for me, no matter and they made musical sense, at least to lyrics -- feels like a total stream that john's first batch of lyrics didn't mention &quot;it's not too bad.&quot; not quite the same magic... but soon changed it to let me take you DOWN. expected. let me take you back in time. but let but it's also going down below the surface, the singular strawberry field to strawberry but i actually think it's because he's inviting right? he's sharing more than one memory. so he was sort of a warts-and-all kind of a series called &quot;write a song right now&quot; about own lyric writing. you can check that out here. his editing process. he's really trying to get it &quot;there's no one on my wavelength, i mean it's &quot;no one i think is in my tree, i mean it must be you know, tune in, but it's all right, that is, time i ever heard mental and emotional hesitation &quot;i always, no, sometimes think it's hard, but you and that became &quot;always, no, sometimes think it's think i know, i mean, er yes, but it's all wrong, the early prototype for the lyrics of your song what i really mean...&quot; so john lennon kind of gave himself actually called this song &quot;psychoanalysis of the song in september of 66. he was on set the other Beatles weren't around, and and i think you can really feel that in so at the end of november, he brought which would later be renamed abbey road, and you know, and in this familiar recording good space and ready to kind of venture where process of strawberry fields really reflects that. complicated and really rule-breaking record spent a whopping 45 hours of studio time. but it was spread out over five weeks. they so i have stems taken from the final master, and stereo tracks, but they're actually mono, so i've this is a visual way to see the structure of the at me is that, i always think of the Beatles as or more tracks of them just playing all the way Beatles songs. but not true with this original mix for the Beatles' producer and arranger George given his massive role in this song, case closed. that martin arranged and conducted takes over except the drums. so the orchestra becomes the it happens right here. john keeps singing, ringo the rock band instruments to the orchestra. okay, music scholars love to pick like comedy to see how they explain it in in very dominic pedler describes Lennon's &quot;non-diatonic chromatic melodic tension, intensified through sure dominic. but here's the thing: john didn't of musicians and songwriters who just trusted memorable songs. john wrote strawberry fields on it this way, you realize the whole thing is just has four chords: C, G minor, A7 and F. let me nothing is real and nothing to get hung about strawberry fields forever pretty simple actually. strung together in a unique way. and of course do surprise most ears. it's one of his favorite strawberry fields, and then the A7, nothing is also drops a few beats during the chorus. the way of two beats on &quot;nothing to&quot; and a bar of three nothing is one-two-three-four and one-two, one-two-three-four, there you go. each verse has all still chords we learned in the first Mel F, G, C, A minor, F, G, F, C. so instead of waxing basic building blocks to create what george like a modern Debussy.&quot; that ability is why this song uses just eight total chords to create and it always feels fresh, at least tracks. the song starts with paul's haunting setting. but you can see in the final mix, he and that's it. here's the now this reduction track is bass guitar, guitar, played by george, and a pulsing nothing is real it's also out at the second happens and the orchestra takes over. now the number one, george martin was a brilliant, in this case, he had the radical idea to just use a brass section. so check out these chunks of his so you're going to hear them playing as a half step higher. it's in the key of C. i and here's the brass. almost sounds the brass band is how martin honored there was an annual garden party. it was held and the salvation army brass band played. to be on time to hear the band. so another substitute rock band is this rhythm track. it's and then later, a bunch of other drums and the whole band and some of the Beatles usual i think the percussion track just so intense and driving, that we never one more thing that keeps this feeling like two short phrases of lead guitar, and the second, with a nice trill okay, then the song seems to end, but of to that weird and wonderful coda, you know, flutes repeat their wacky phrase. as a kid, playing those flutes. it's actually a mellotron and of course, john's big clue, saying &quot;i buried the final 1967 mix is a jigsaw puzzle of pieces them are radically different from each other. four-track tape machines. so more than once during of a tape and then reduce, or bounce, them over and that would give them three open tracks to geek like me, and you want to know how everything book by mark lewisohn called &quot;the complete an amazing reference for anyone who's passionate so i put a link in the description. now if you after 26 takes, some complete, some sections john tells george martin that he likes the lighter version, specifically take 7, but that he version with the orchestra. so he wants to combine news that take 26, with the orchestra, is at a and lennon just looks at him and says &quot;you can fix george martin and EMI engineer Geoff Emerick and they matched the two takes as closely as try to play along, you're going to find out little lower than B-flat, and that's because it in different keys, both recorded at different splice happens and the orchestra takes over. it's at about the one-minute mark. so the and three verses. the vocals on the first chorus sped up the tape while recording john's original they'd actually sound a bit slow and slurred. so it sounded a little less slow. now then on the ones from take 26, john's voice is slowed a marbles-in-the-mouth or, you know, swimming tree, i mean it must be high or low. that is, that is, i think it's not too bad&quot; i think that drunken dreaminess of the tune. now speaking of those mystical descending arpeggios that's george harrison playing a swarmandal or indian harp. it's now george martin actually arranged the and that's something he did again brilliantly Sgt Pepper's. for years, all the early takes and in the vaults at EMI, and then in the mid assassination, the remaining beatles and they compiled a bunch of outtakes and rarities of anthology two has three strawberry fields a remix of take one with backing harmonies, and so check that out if you want to hear the whole it's still great, but less intense and it's really the fuel for my imagination all these years. but for rabid fans like me, there's something even the original multi-track masters. and it traces late 80s, i was lucky enough to snag this bootleg i still own. for legal reasons, Back-Track was 10 tracks devoted only to the recording process guys! there were four of john's home demos. there 1 through 5 and then take 7, which is a stereo Back-Track also had both the raw cello and brass regular speed take 26. that's the take that got final mix. so if we combine take 7 and take 26 two actual building blocks of the final 1967 mix. they're not for sale, because that wouldn't be goodies, with my Patreon supporters. so if you become a patron of the channel and they're yours. strawberry fields and Lennon's other psychedelic advent of psychedelic pop and rock. definitely the Move, the whole Mellotron era of the Moody how the promo film clips for strawberry fields and film vocabulary of the music video. but alright, there's your long trip down penny lane to maybe got a few chills like me, and really enjoyed john Lennon, the Beatles George Martin and Geoff you? please remember to leave a comment and share know. i want to thank you for being here to blow love and respect, so if you want to blow up more, i do post all my videos on guitardiscoveries.com out and get your fill of guitar, vocal and