- Hi everyone. I'm Carly, And today we have from Disney Cruise Line. A very special viewing of Now in just a few moments time, you're gonna be transported to follow the adventure of You guessed it. It's Anna and Elsa. Now get ready for a captivating show, because here on board Disney Cruise Line, we tell the story of &quot;Frozen&quot; To create this musical Disney assembled a stellar creative team, including a Tony award-nominated director, a Tony award-winning costume designer, and an Emmy award-winning puppet designer. You'll be amazed from the Lavish costumes, dynamic and remarkable special effects, that make this stage (bold music) And now gather the sit back, and let it go. As Disney Cruise Line proudly presents, &quot;Frozen: A Musical Spectacular.&quot; (singers vocalizing) (ice crackling) Born of cold and winter air And mountain rain combining This icy force both foul and fair Has a frozen heart worth mining Hup, ho! Watch your step, let it go Cut through the heart, cold and clear Strike for love and strike for fear There's beauty and there's danger here Split the ice apart Beware the frozen heart (gentle somber orchestral music) - [Anna] Come on, come (Anna laughing) - [Elsa] Shh. You'll wake the whole castle. - The sky's awake, so I'm (Anna and Elsa laughing) Do you wanna build a snowman? (Elsa gasps) Come on, do the magic, do the magic. - Go. - This is amazing. - Are you ready? (majestic orchestral music) - Wow. (Anna and Elsa laughing) Hi, I'm Olaf and I like warm hugs. - I love you, Olaf. - [Anna And Elsa] Mwah. (Anna and Elsa laughing) - [Anna] Woo! Wee! - Get ready for tickle bumps. - My favorite. Catch me. Again, again! - Be careful, Anna, slow down. Anna! (gentle music) Oh no, no, no, Anna, please, no. (gentle music) Mama, papa, come quick! - (gasps) Elsa, what have you done? - [King] This is getting out of hand. - Anna. She's ice cold. - It was an accident. I'm sorry, Anna. - I know where we have to go. (dramatic music) Please, help! It's my daughter. - Born with the powers or cursed? - Born. - And they're getting stronger. - You're lucky it wasn't her heart. The heart is not so easily changed, but, the head can be persuaded. - Do what you must. - I recommend we remove all magic. Even memories of magic to be safe. But don't worry, I'll leave the fun. (majestic music) - But, she won't remember I have powers. - It's for the best. - Your power will only grow. There is beauty in your You must learn to control it. Fear will be your enemy. - [King] We'll protect her. Until then, we'll lock the gates. (door slams) We'll reduce the staff. (door slams) We will limit her contact with people to keep her powers hidden from everyone. (door slams) Including Anna. (door slams) (twinkling piano music) - (gasps) Snow! (Anna laughs) Elsa? Do you wanna build a snowman Come on. Let's go and play I never see you anymore Come out the door It's like you've gone away We used to be best buddies And now we're not I wish you would tell me why Do you wanna build a snowman It doesn't have to be a snowman - [Elsa] Go away, Anna. Okay, bye - [King] The gloves will help. See, conceal it. - Don't feel it. - [King And Elsa] Don't let it show. (Elsa laughs) (gentle music) Do you wanna build a snowman Or ride our bike around the halls I think some company is overdue I've starting talking to Hang in there, Joan It gets a little lonely On these empty rooms Just watching the hours tick bye (tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock) - [Elsa] I'm scared. - Getting upset only makes it worse. - No, don't touch me, please. I don't wanna hurt you. (gentle music) - Anna dear, your father (gentle music) - See you in two weeks. - Do you have to go? - You'll be fine, Elsa. (gentle orchestral music) - Our deepest sympathies, princess. - Your parents will be greatly missed. (gentle orchestral music) (knocking at door) - Elsa, please. I know you're in there People are asking where you've been They say have courage I'm right out here for you Just let me in We only have each other It's just you and me What are we gonna do Do you wanna build a snowman (gentle orchestral music) (audience applauding) - On the most auspicious occasion we welcome visitors one and all - [Boy] Why do I have to wear this? - Because the queen has come - Well that's not my fault. - Arendelle, our most Open those gates, so I and exploit your riches. (laughs) Oh, did I just say that out loud? Oopsie. - I can't believe they're - And for a whole day! (Anna snoring) (knocking at door) - Princess Anna? - [Anna] Huh? Yeah. - Oh, I'm sorry to wake - No, you didn't. I've been up for hours. - Um, it's time to get ready. - Ready for what? - Your sister's coronation, ma'am? - My sister's corneration? (Anna yawns) Coronation day? It's coronation day. (Anna laughs) The window is open So's that door I didn't know they did that anymore Who knew we owned 8,000 salad plates For years I've roamed Why have a ballroom with no balls Finally they're opening up the gates There'll be actual real live people It'll be totally strange But wow, am I so ready for this change 'Cause for the first time in forever There'll be music, there'll be light For the first time in forever I'll be dancing through the night Don't know if I'm elated or gassy But I'm somewhere in that zone 'Cause for the first time in forever I won't be alone I can't wait to meet everyone. What if I meet the one? (bouncy upbeat orchestral music) (Anna laughs) Tonight, imagine me gown and all Fetchingly draped against the wall The picture of sophisticated grace I suddenly see him standing there A beautiful stranger, tall and fair I wanna stuff some (Garbled) But then we laugh and talk all evening Which is totally bizarre Nothing like the life I've led so far For the first time in forever There'll be magic, there'll be fun For the first time in forever I could be noticed by someone And I know it's totally crazy To dream I'd find romance But for the first time in forever At least I've got a chance. Don't let them in Don't let them see Be the good girl you always have to be Conceal Don't feel Put on a show Make one wrong move But it's only for today It's only for today It's agony to wait It's agony to wait Tell the guards to open up the gate The gate The gate For the first time in forever Don't let them in Don't let them see I'm dreaming of Be the good girl you always have to be A chance to change my lonely world Conceal A chance to find true love Conceal, don't feel, I know it all ends tomorrow So it has to be today For the first time in forever For the first time in forever Nothing's in my way For the first time in forever (audience applauding) (bouncy upbeat orchestral music) - Hey! Are you hurt? - Hey I, uh, no. (audience laughing) No, I'm okay. I just wasn't Well, this is awkward. Not because you're awkward. Just because we're, I'm (Hans laughs) - Prince Hans of the Southern Isles. - Princess Anna of Arendelle. - Princess? Oh, oh my lady. - Oh no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not that princess. I mean, if you'd hit my sister, Elsa, that would be, yeesh, but lucky you, it's, it's just me. (giggles) - Just you? - Mm-hmm. (bells tolling) The bells. The coronation. I, I, I, I better go. I have to go. Uh, bye. (bells tolling) ''Heimr Arnadalr'' [processional] - Your majesty, the gloves. Bishop: (In Old Norse) Sehm hon HELL-drr IN-urn HELL-gum AYG-num ok krund ee THES-um HELL-gah STAHTH, ehk tek frahm FUR-ear U- thear. Queen Elsa of Arendelle. - [Crowd] Queen Elsa of Arendelle. (crowd applauds) (Elsa giggles) - This way, my lady. - Oh, okay. I didn't... Here? Are you sure? - Hi. - Hi, me? Oh, hi. - You look beautiful. - Thank you. You look beautifuller. I mean, not fuller. - Thank you. Your majesty, the Duke of Weaseltown. - Weselton, the Duke of Weselton. Your majesty, as your might I have the pleasure I'm as agile as a peacock. (audience laughing) (Elsa and Anna laugh) - I'm, I'm sorry, but, but I don't dance. (Anna laughs) - Well then, might I at least say how wonderful it is to Why were they shut in the first place? Either of you know the reason? Hm? This way, duke. - An honor to meet you both. (Elsa and Anna laugh) - So, this is what a party looks like. - It's warmer than I thought. - And what's that amazing smell? (both inhale deeply) - [Anna And Elsa] Chocolate. (laugh) - This is so nice. I wish it could be like this all the time. - Me too. But it can't. - Well, why not? I mean, we- - It just can't. - Excuse me for a minute. (soft bouncy orchestral music) (Anna sighs) (bouncy upbeat orchestral music) Whoa, whoa. (Hans laughs) Oh. - Glad I caught you. - Hans. (magical orchestral music) I often have the whole - [Hans] Oh, mm. - Sorry. (magical orchestral music) Oh! Your physique helps, I'm sure. - Hey, what's this? - Oh, I was born with it. Although I dreamt I was kissed by a troll. - I like it. - Okay. (laughs) Wait, so you have how many brothers? - Ah, 12 older brothers. Three of them pretended I was invisible. - Huh? - Literally. For two years. (Anna and Hans laugh) But, that's what brothers do. - And sisters. Elsa and I were really but then one day she just shut - I would never shut you out. (gentle music) - Okay. (laughs) Can I just say something crazy? - I love crazy. All my life has been a And then suddenly I bump into you - I was thinking the I've been searching my whole And maybe it's the party talking Or the chocolate fondue But with you But with you I found my place I see your face And it's nothing like Love is an open door Love is an open door Love is an open door With you, with you With you, with you Love is an open door (Anna and Hans laugh) I mean it's crazy - What? We finish each other's - Sandwiches. - That's what I was gonna say. I never someone one Who thinks so much like me - [Anna And Hans] Jinx. Jink again. Our mental synchronization Can have but one explanation You and I were just meant to be Say goodbye Say goodbye to the pain of the past We don't have to feel it anymore (uplifting orchestral music) Say goodbye Say goodbye to the pain of the past We don't have to feel it anymore Love is an open door Love is an open door Life can be so much more With you, with you With you, with you Love is an open door, door - Can I say something crazy? Will you marry me? - Can I say something even crazier? Yes. (Hans laughs) (bold orchestral music) (audience applauding) (Anna and Hans laughing) (gasps) We have to tell my sister. - Okay. Sorry. Can I scoot around you there? Thank you. Sorry, sorry. Excuse me. Oh, Sorry, sorry. Hi. Oh, there she is. Elsa! I mean, queen. Me again. Um, may I present Prince - Your majesty. - We would like - Your blessing. - [Hans And Anna] Of our marriage. - Marriage? I'm sorry, I'm confused. - Well, we haven't worked out We'll need a few days Of course we'll have soup, And then, wait, will we live here? - Here? - Absolutely. - We can invite all 12 of - Whoa, wait. Slow down. No one's brothers are staying with us. And no one's getting married. - Wait, what? - You can't marry a man you've just met. - You can if it's true love. - Anna, what do you know about true love? - More than you. All you know - I'm sorry Anna, you but my answer is no. The party's over close the gates. - What, Elsa, no. - Give me my glove. - Elsa, please, please. I - Then leave. - Leave? What did I ever do to you? - Enough, Anna. - No. Why? Why do you shut me out? Why What are you so afraid of? - I said, &quot;Enough!&quot; (dramatic swishing) - Ha, ha! Sorcery. I knew there was something - Elsa? - [Elsa] Please, just, - [Duke] Monster, monster. Stop her. - [Elsa] All of you, just stay away. - It's snowing. - It's snowing in the middle of July. The queen has cursed this land. - Elsa. (dramatic music) Look...the fjord. Elsa, wait. Please. (dramatic orchestral music) (slow tense music) - You can't go after her. - This is all my fault. I pushed her. So I'm the one - Anna, no. - It was an accident. She was scared. She didn't mean it, any of this. - It's too dangerous. - Elsa is not dangerous. I'll bring her back and - I'll go with you. I need you here to take care of Arendelle. - On my honor. - I leave Prince Hans in charge. - Are you sure you can trust her? I don't want you getting hurt. - She's my sister. She would never hurt me. (adventurous orchestral music) (wind whipping) (gentle piano music) The snow glows white Not a footprint to be seen A kingdom of isolation and The wind is howling like Couldn't keep it in Heaven knows I tried Don't let them in Don't let them see Be the good girl you always have to be Conceal, don't feel Don't let them know Well now they know Let it go, let it go Can't hold it back anymore Let it go, let it go Turn away and slam the door I don't care what they're going to say Let the storm rage on The cold never bothered me anyway (upbeat music) It's funny how some distance And the fear that once controlled me Can't get to me at all It's time to see what I can do To test the limits and break through No right, no wrong No rules for me I'm free Let it go, let it go I'm one with the wind and sky Let it go, let it go You'll never see me cry Here I stand And here I stay Let the storm rage on (bold orchestral music) My power flurries through My soul is spiraling in And one thought crystallizes I'm never going back, Let it go, let it go And I'll rise like the break of dawn Let it go, let it go That perfect girl is gone Here I stand in the light of day Let the storm rage on The cold never bothered me anyway (bold orchestral music) (audience applauding) (bold orchestral music) (door slams) (light orchestral music) - Hey-eh-eh-eh-eh-eh. - This is what you get - What? Oh, what? Oh, whoa. - Woo-hoo. (curious orchestral music) Big Summer blow out! Hoo-hoo! - Ow. (Sven panting) No Sven, I didn't get your carrots. And it looks like we're sleeping outside. (Sven sighs) - But Kristoff. - No, I'll make it up to you. Wait, wait, wait, wait. How's about a lullaby? (Sven grumbling) - Oh, but, I can't eat a lullaby. - Well, at least it'll take Huh? (Sven grumbling) Reindeers are better than people Sven, don't you think that's true - Yeah, people will beat you Every one of 'em's bad except you. - (chuckles) Thanks, buddy. But people smell better than reindeers Sven, don't you think I'm right - That's once again - (laughs) You got me. Let's call it a night Goodnight Don't let the frostbite (yawns) bite - Snow, it had to be snow. She couldn't have had tropical magic and covered the fjords in white sand. (wolves howl) I'm just gonna ignore that. Elsa? Elsa? Oh, excuse me. Has another young woman, I don't know, passed through these parts? (Kristoff snoring) Hello? - Oh! - [Anna] I could use a (Sven snorting) - You could use a little help? I sell ice for a living. - Oh. That's a rough (audience laughing) I mean, who knows where - The North Mountain. - North Mountain? Okay. Just tell me one thing. What was happening on the North Mountain? Did it seem magical? - Yes. Now, if that's all, we really- - I need you to take me - (laughs) Uh, I don't take people places. - Let me rephrase that. I am princess Anna of Arendelle, and you will take me Please? Oh, hi buddy. (giggles) - Fine. Get in. But I warn you, we like to go fast. - I like fast. - Hup. - Whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. This is fresh lacquer. Seriously, were you raised in a barn? (Kristoff spits) - Ew. No, I was raised in a castle. - So what exactly are we looking for? - The queen, my sister, Elsa. She started this winter in but it was all my fault. See, I got engaged, and because I'd only just met And she said she wouldn't - Wait. You got engaged to - Yeah. So anyway, I got mad and so she got mad, and then she tried to walk away. And so I grabbed her gloves. - Hang on. You mean to tell me you got engaged to someone you just met that day? - Yes. Pay attention. So the thing is, she So I thought maybe she - Didn't your parents ever - Yes they did. But This is true love. - (chuckles) Doesn't sound - Are you some sort of love the expert? - No, but I have friends who are. - You have friends who are love (wolves howling) - No, I mean, I'd love to met these- - No, I mean it. Shh. - Why? (wolves barking and growling) (Anna and Kristoff yelling) What do we do? - [Kristoff] Let me handle it. - [Anna] But I can help. - No. - (gasps) Well because, I - Excuse me? - Who marries a man she just met? - It's true love. - Whoa, nice shot. - You know, most people who want to be alone. - Nobody wants to be alone. (wolves barking) Look, there's a huge gorge ahead. - That's how we lose 'em. - I was born ready. - Jump, Sven! Ow! (Anna groans) But I just paid it off. (Kristoff sighs) - I'll replace your sled, (Sven grumbling) - What? Are you okay? - Yes. Thank you. - [Kristoff] First, I - Um, how's your head? - Ow, ow. Oh, uh, I mean, uh, I'm, Oh um, uh, no, I'm good. I've got a thick skull. - I don't have a skull, or bones. (Anna and Kristoff gasp) (Anna and Kristoff yell) Hi. I'm Olaf, and I like warm hugs. (audience laughing) - [Anna] That's right, Olaf. - And, you are? - Oh, I'm Anna. - And who's the funky-looking - That's Sven. - Uh-huh. And who's the reindeer? (audience laughing) - Sven? - Okay. Make things easier for me. - Did Elsa build you? - Yeah. Why? - Do you know where she is? - Yeah. Why? - Do you think you could show us the way? - Yeah. Why? (audience laughing) - I'll tell you why. We need - Summer! Oh, I don't know why, but I and sun, and all things hot. - Really? I'm guessing you don't have - Nope. But sometimes, I like to close my eyes and imagine what it would be Oh. Ah. Bees'll buzz Kids'll blow dandelion fuzz And I'll be doing whatever A drink in my hand My snow up against the burning sand Probably getting I'd finally see a summer And find out what When it gets warm (laughs) And I can't wait to see, what Just imagine how much Dance break! (upbeat orchestral music) Look what I found. Sunflowers! - [Sunflowers] Wee! - Whoa. (Olaf laughing) Oh, oh, stop. Jazz sticks. Bye-bye. (sunflowers giggling) Follow me. (upbeat playful orchestral music) Wings. (upbeat playful music) Ha. I've always wanted to do this. (upbeat orchestral music) Dreams do come true. Wee! Whoa. My turn. Ah-oh-ya-ta-huh. Ouch. (majestic orchestral music) (all sigh) Hey Sven, this is my dream. (all chattering) (anticipatory music) Seats. (playful orchestral music) Take it, Sven. (playful orchestral music) (Olaf vocalizing) The hot and the cold are both so intense. Put 'em together it just makes sense. (Olaf vocalizing) Winter's a good time But put me in summer and I'll be a- - [All] Happy snowman! When life gets rough, I Of relaxing in the summer (sunflowers sigh contentedly) Oh the sky will be blue And you guys'll be there too When I finally do what - I'm gonna tell him. - Don't you dare. In summer (audience applauding) - So come on, gang, Elsa's that way. Let's go bring back summer! (upbeat orchestral music) Ah! Ah! Ah-choo! (audience laughing) - Come on. My nose. Oh, oh, hey, have Anyone over here? Has anyone seen my nose? Anyone? Who has it, what? Whoa! Sven. Hey, Sven, come back. Come on. Sven? (Olaf panting) - [Hans] Cloak, cloak. - Cloaks? There's soup and hot - Prince Hans, are we just while you give away all of - Princess Anna has given her orders. - Has it dawned on you that with an evil sorceress to destroy us all? - Do not question the princess. She left me in charge, to protect Arendelle from treason. - Treason? Oh. Oh. Oh. The fjord is frozen solid. The winds from the and there's been no sign of The people are beginning to panic. - You're right. She could be in trouble. I need to go out there. - I volunteer two men to - Men, we are going to find Princess Anna. Be on guard, but no harm - Be prepared for anything. And should you encounter the queen, you are to put an end to this winter. Do you understand? (somber orchestral music) - [Kristoff] Oh, flawless. - [Anna] Whoa. - (chuckles) Now, this is ice. I might cry. - Knock. Just knock. Why isn't she knocking? You think she knows how to knock? - It opened. That's a first. You three should probably wait outside. The last time I introduced her to a guy, she froze everything. - But, but it's a palace made of ice. Ice is my life. - Just give us a minute. - Come on guys. She needs a minute. - One. Two. Three. Four. - Elsa? It's me, Anna. - [Elsa] Anna? - Elsa. You look so different. And this place is amazing. - Thank you. I never knew what I was capable of. - I'm so sorry about what - No, you don't have to apologize. It's so wonderful to see you, but you should probably go, please. - But, I just got here. - [Elsa] You belong down in Arendelle. - So do you. - No, I don't. I belong here. Alone, where I can be who I - Actually, about that. - 58, 59, 60! Hi, I'm Olaf and I like warm hugs. (audience laughing) - Olaf? - You built me. You remember that? - And you're alive? - Um, I think so. - He's just like the one we built as kids. We were so close. We can be like that again. - No we can't. Goodbye, Anna. - Olaf, wait downstairs. Elsa. - [Elsa] I'm just trying to protect you. - But, you don't have to protect me. I'm not afraid. Please. Don't shut me out again. Please don't slam the door You don't have to keep 'Cause for the first time in forever I finally understand For the first time in forever We can fix this hand in hand We can head down this mountain together. You don't have to live in fear 'Cause for the first time in forever I will be right here - Anna. Please go back home Your life awaits Go enjoy the sun and open up the gates - Yeah, but- I know you mean well But leave me be Yes, I'm alone, but I'm alone and free Just stay away, you'll be safe from me Actually, we're not What do mean, you're not I get the feeling you don't know What do I not know - Arendelle's in deep, deep, deep deep snow. - What? - You kind of set off an - Everywhere? - It's okay. You can just go unfreeze it. - No, no, I, I can't. I don't know how. - Of course you can. I know you can. 'Cause for the first time in forever I'm such a fool I can't be free No escape from the storm Inside of me Together Reverse the storm you've made Anna, please, you'll Don't panic There's so much fear Shine bright We can face this thing together We can change this winter weather And everything will be all right I can't (Anna grunting) - [Kristoff] Anna! Are you okay? - I'm okay. I'm fine. - Who's he? No, it doesn't matter. You have to go. - No. I know we can - How? What power do you To stop me? - Anna, I, I think we should go. - No. I'm not leaving without you, Elsa. - Yes, you are. (dramatic music) (door slams shut) - [Anna] Oh. - Man, am I outta shape. (audience laughing) - (groans) What am I gonna do? I can't go back to Arendelle And then, there's your ice business. - Hey, hey, don't worry Worry about your hair. It's turning white. - White. It's what? - It's because she struck you, isn't it? - Does it look bad? - No. - You hesitated. (audience laughing) - No, I didn't. Okay, Anna, you need help. Okay, uh, come on. - Where are we going? - To see my friends. - The love experts? - [Kristoff] Yes, and don't worry, they'll be able to fix this. - [Anna] How do you know? - [Hans] Because, I've - I like to consider myself a love expert. (Olaf laughs) (gentle orchestral music) - (sighs) Get it together. Control it. Don't feel. Don't feel. Don't feel! (ice crackling) Anna? - [Man] Get her. Get her. - No, please. Stay away. - She's dangerous. Move quickly. - Queen Elsa. (ice hissing) Don't be the monster they fear you are. Wait! (ice shattering) (gentle music) - Look, Sven, the sky's awake. - Are you cold? - A little. That's nice. - So, um, uh, about my friends. Well, I say friends, Anyway, when, when I was a until they kind of, you know, took us in. - They did? - Oh. - Um, I don't wanna scare you, but that can be a little Well, very loud. And they're And then they can be a little overbearing, and oh, oh, heavy. Really, really, heavy. But you'll, but you know, you'll get it. I mean, they're fine, They mean well, but- - Kristoff. They sound wonderful. - (sighs) Uh, okay then. Meet my family. - Kristoff home! - Trolls? - And he brought a girl. - They're trolls? - Is that a real girl? - Um, she's like a little cupcake. - What is going on? - Hey, I've learned to just roll with it. - Let me see. Bright eyes. A working nose, and strong teeth. - Yes, yes, yes. She'll do nicely for our Kristoff. - What? No, no, no- - Oh no, you have the wrong idea. - Right, we're not- why I brought her here. - What's the issue, dear? Why are you holding back from such a man? Is it the clumpy way he walks - What? Or the grumpy way he talks - Oh, no- Or the pear-shaped, square-shaped - Hey. And though we know he washes well He always ends up sorta smelly But you'll never meet a fellow Who's as sensitive and sweet - That's nice, but- So he's a bit of a fixer upper So he's got a few flaws His peculiar brain, dear His thing with the reindeer That's a little So he's a bit of a fixer upper But this we're certain of You can fix this fixer upper up With a little bit of love - No, can we please We have a real, actual problem here. - I'll say. - Whoa! Is it the way that he runs scared Or that he's socially impaired Or that he only likes - She did not need to know that. Are you holding back your fondness Due to his unmanly blondness - What? Or the way he covers up - [Kristoff] This is not about me. He's just a bit of a fixer upper He's got a couple of bugs - What? No, I don't. His isolation is confirmation Of his desperation for healing hugs - Aw. So he's bit of a fixer upper But we know what to do The way to fix up this fixer upper Is to fix him up with you - [Anna] Whoa. (all chattering happily) I'm fine, really. - Enough! She's engaged to someone else. Okay? - Uh-oh. So she's a bit of a fixer upper - What? That's a minor thing Her quote, engagement, And by the way, I don't see no ring - [Anna] What? So she's a bit of a fixer upper Her brain's a bit betwixt Get the fiance out of the way And the whole thing will be fixed (lively music) Ah, ah, we're not saying 'Cause people don't really change Ah-Ooh, only saying That's powerful and strange People make bad choices If they're mad or scared or stressed But throw a little love their way Throw a little love their way And you'll bring out their best True love brings out the best Everyone's a bit of a fixer upper That's what it's all about Father, sister, brother We need other to raise Everyone's a bit of a fixer upper But when push comes to shove The only fixer upper fixer Is true, true True, true, true Love, true love Love, love, love Love, true love, Love, true love, True - Do you, Anna, take Kristoff - Wait. What? - You're getting married. Love (audience applauding) - Really, that's not what's (Anna coughing) Oh, she's cold as ice. - Let me examine her. Anna. (Anna coughing) There is ice in your heart. If not removed, to solid ice - So, what will remove it, Grand Pabbie? - Only an act of true love - Anna. Oh, we have to - Hans? - Oh, oh no, Olaf, Sven, come on. Just, hang in there, okay? - Oh, we're coming! Let's go kiss Hans! Who is this Hans? (audience laughing) Oh! Oh! Oh, look at him I like you too. Who's my cute little reindeer? (light bouncy music) (clears throat) Curtain up, please. Thanks. (majestic orchestral music) - Hang in there, Anna. You're home now. Okay. - Are you, are you gonna be okay? - Oh, sh, no, don't worry about me. - [Hans] Anna. - Princess Anna, you had us worried sick. - Make sure she's safe. - Go get her warm clothes immediately. Oh, you're so cold. - Hans, you have to kiss me, now. - What? - Let me give you two some privacy. - What happened? - Elsa struck me with her powers. - But you said she would never hurt you. - I was wrong. Elsa froze my heart, and only an act of true love can save me. - A true love's kiss? - Yes. (gentle orchestral music) - Oh, Anna, if only there who loved you. - What? You said you did? - As 13th in line in my own kingdom, I didn't stand a chance. I knew I'd have to marry - What are you talking about? - As heir, Elsa was preferable. But no one was getting anywhere with her. But you, you were so desperate for love. You were willing to I figured after we married, I'd have to stage a little accident. - Hans, no, stop. - But then, then she doomed Now, she's been captured in the dungeon. All that's left to do is kill - You're no match for Elsa. - No, you're no match for Elsa. I, on the other hand, am the hero who's going to save Arendelle - You won't get away with this. - Oh, I already have. (deep somber music) - No. (breathing heavily) - Anna? Oh no. - Olaf. - What happened to Hans? - I was wrong about him. It wasn't true love. I don't even know what love is. - That's okay, I do. Love is putting someone Like you know, how Kristoff and left you forever. - Kristoff loves me? - Wow. You really don't know Say, is it hot in here or what? - Olaf, if you stay in here much longer you're gonna start to melt. - Some people are worth melting for. - Oh, Olaf. Come on. I need to get to Kristoff. - Why? (gasps) Oh, oh, oh, oh. I know why. - (shivers) It's getting If we don't do something soon, Oh, Prince Hans. - Princess Anna is dead. (people gasping) - [Duke] What happened to her? - She was killed by Queen Elsa. - Her own sister. - At least we got to say our marriage vows before she died in my arms. - There can be no doubt about it now. Queen Elsa is a monster and - She's been captured. - Prince Hans, Arendelle looks to you. - With a heavy heart, I with treason and sentence her to death. (people gasping) - Queen Elsa broke out of the dungeon. - What? - The monster's on the lose! (all talking excitedly) - [Man] Go, go, come on. - [Olaf] We're gonna get through this. Stay with me, Anna. - [Anna] Olaf, I can't. - Hurry, Anna, we gotta keep going. What's that? - Whoa, what is it, buddy? No, I don't understand you No, Sven, we're not going back. She's with her true love. A blizzard. Anna! - Look. It's Kristoff and - Kristoff? - Anna! - [Hans] Elsa, stop. You can't run away from this. - Just take care of my sister. - Your sister? She returned She said you froze her heart. - What? No. - I tried to save her but it was too late. Her skin was ice. Her hair turned white. Your sister's dead because of you. (dramatic orchestral music) - No! - [Kristoff] Anna. - [Anna] Kristoff, you came back. Elsa? No! (sword clinks) (ice crackling) - Anna! Anna. Anna. No. No, no, please no. Anna. No, no. No, no. (crying) - Anna? (gentle majestic orchestral music) (music increasing in intensity) - Anna. - Oh, Elsa. (uplifting orchestral music) - You sacrificed yourself for me. - I love you. - An act of true love - Love will thaw. Love. Of course, love. (singers vocalizing) - I knew you could do it. - I couldn't have, not without you. - [Kristoff] Why, you. - [Anna] Uh, uh, uh. - Anna, but, but she froze your heart. - The only frozen heart (Hans grunts) - Guard. Return Prince Hans to his country. We'll see what his 12 brothers (Anna laughs) - I couldn't agree with you more, majesty. - And take the duke with you. - Ah! - Arendelle will henceforth and forever no longer do business of - Weselton, it's Weselton! (Anna and Elsa laughing) - Elsa, I was wondering a royal ice master and deliverer. - Of course. - What do you say, Kristoff? - Is that a thing? - It is now. - You mean it? Oh, Anna, I could kiss you. I could. I mean, I, I'd like to. I'd, may I? We me, I, I mean, may we? Wait, what? - We may. (audience cheering) - Hands down, this is And quite possibly the last. - Oh, Olaf, hang on, little guy. (magical orchestral music) - Hey, my own personal flurry. Look, Sven. - [Anna] I like the open gates. - We're never closing them again. Say goodbye to the pain of the past We don't have to feel it anymore Love is an open door Love is an open door - Are you ready? (dramatic orchestral music) Love is an open door Love is an open door Life can be so much more With you, with you With you, with you Love is an open door With you - Oh! Life can be so much more With you, with you With you, with you Love is an open door With you Love is an open door (dramatic orchestral music) (audience applauding) The only fixer upper fixer Is true, true, true, true, true Love, true love, love, Love, true love, love, Love, true love, love, (bold drumming music) - So there you have it, We truly hope that you enjoyed of this enchanting musical, right there in your very own home. Be sure to keep following along as we continue to bring from Disney Cruise Line. Until then, we'll see ya real soon. (wind howling) (playful upbeat music)