- This is a tube that grants wishes. Specifically, wishes for things So a tube that allows people to deliver things directly into your home? Kinda like a mail slot, but different. Why do this? First of all, who doesn't love tubes? - Matt, how did you like the donuts? - Second of all, how terrible is it that we drive everything everywhere? - If I want a six-pack of chicken nuggets, I gotta get a human being in a two-ton car to go get that single item. The way we make delivery - Why not use small electric robots to just get stuff right into our homes? - Something can just appear in a drawer. It's just kind of a magical experience, and it feels as close to teleportation as I think we're gonna get. - These tubes are like of the pneumatic tubes in old-timey banks and department stores, but they can connect any home - We flipped the problem of last-mile delivery on its head. Most other modalities are that can adapt to any environment. We're doing the opposite. We're trying to create an environment and adapt that to any city. - This isn't life It's called hyperlogistics, and it could be the future - We agree, it is very, very tough, and by no means think this is 100% chance we're gonna make this happen, but I mean we're gonna spend so it is a pipe dream. - So how will magic No, Mario, not you. - Oh, come on. - This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding So what if you could have better Well, maybe you can. You see, this is a They're the sponsor of this episode, piece of tech. The general idea is that this device uses EEG technology Then, it uses an AI algorithm of brainwave activity that moves your brain in the direction calming down, This is backed by hundreds of research studies by NASA, I've been using Muse to get better sleep and I was kind of amazed at It monitors my brainwaves and provides And then if I wake up, So, I wind up being a little bit more which is important because my job requires me while I talk to people That's especially hard to do I also use it for meditation, mainly because I thought it would give me It has not, but Muse has helped me That means less stress and better focus Anyway, if you want to and our show, go to or use the discount code 'Freethink' Okay, back to the tubes. Oh Danny boy, the pipes - I'm here to see a man about some tubes? See a lot of tubes over here. This seems like the tube place. - How's it going? I'm Nick. Nice to meet you. Thanks for having us. Come on in. - Right, I heard you got some tubes. Oh, we got a few. - This is Pipedream, a new hardware company of underground tunnels to deliver packages directly into homes. The idea of building a that connect to every house and apartment seems crazy, until you realize we already do this: It's called plumbing, and it's pretty standard This is the same idea, that can accommodate more kinds of stuff. - In the same way that you have a gas pipe and a water pipe to your house, we're trying to create the - That's Canon. He's the co-founder of Pipedream, and he's been building that go inside these including some cage fighting robots. Right, right, Canon? - No Battlebots. I wish I could have. - Oh. - Well, we'll just have to wait for the Pipedream-sponsored Anyways... So tell me a little bit This looks like a bunch of - Yeah, this is the These are all the robots we created and iterated past since then. This is the first robot generation where we are experimenting with the rail. As you can notice, it's a and this is a lot easier from The thing that makes Pipedream difficult is not the robot. The robot is actually really simple. It's kind of like a model train. The thing that makes it difficult is that you're building utility, a network that can adapt to ever-changing and installs in different and so making a system that and designed to fail on the correct way where you don't have to go up and go and dig the pipes up - The thought experiment we use is that the sewage system exists. It's largely the same. And if there's enough money in that just delivers poop, we can probably find the money to put in a system that - That's Garrett: He's and when other kids were he was strangely obsessed with - I've been obsessed with lots of logistics my whole life. I remember the first and I got, like, goosebumps. I just hit a button on my iPhone, someone just brought me this coffee; it's like the most magical - And he's been chasing - It was like that is the thing for a decade to take that big shot. - Last-mile logistics of transporting goods. When something is created it usually hops onto a and then to a distribution From there to your house This last step in the journey but also the most expensive by far. - It's crazy that something and still like 30% of the cost of that thing is in the There was a missing piece that first inch, the last inch. - This idea of getting goods not just to your house, but into your house is a step It's sometimes called or 'hyperlogistics.' - The hyperlogistics where you have something to your home or business just as easy as you can receive from that And so we build the hard infrastructure to make going into buildings really easy, going out of buildings really easy, and also solve some of those harder long stretches in cities, the longer middle mile high speed, high safety by moving stuff from place to place through underground infrastructure. - Right now, we solve by just having a human which is nice- but it requires transporting the human along with all the stuff, which usually requires That's not so nice. There's an environmental impact, and it causes congestion and traffic. And, also, think about and potential is tied up in and walking boxes to and Plus, humans can't get without you being there. So now we have porch pirates, a whole new genre of an entire genre of glitter - I think we always discount how much our lives change when When Amazon started two-day shipping, people are like, &quot;Do people When you can get goods more efficiently, that means you're spending You get them right when you - And if the idea of things coming directly into your house remember we already do that as well. Mail slots for example. The big difference here is to everyone who can walk up to your house, but the tube is only If Tube Lords is not an official title or a registered trademark yet, someone should probably hop on that. Anyway... - Our goal is to take the and double or triple the safety on them. So right now, I can look up your address and I can send you anything I want, and you don't have a say in it. So what we want to do is and make sure that you always opt in to who can send you things so that you didn't order - All of this might seem as simple as an RC car and a tube, but it's really a lot harder than that. - This is where we build assemble it all together - Stop the presses. Okay, all right. Sorry, you were saying? - There are two big engineering problems in Pipedream: One is the underground system, and the other is the above ground system. - The underground side of things might seem like but it turns out there's already a lot of established - We use the same construction the same regulatory as Sizing the pipe was the hardest thing that we had to decide on because it's the one thing on the system. Once you start using that size, super hard to use a different size, - We kind of found this happy medium at the 18-inch internal diameter pipe where it wasn't significantly harder than the other sizes we were looking at, but it seemed to unlock that fits most Amazon items, most of the stuff you'd all your kind of food items. - And so, at this current size, that captures 99.2% of e-commerce items. - Once you've got the you just need to get them into the house- which is where things get interesting. - Once you start to take a tote from underground to above ground, you enter this world of There's always a need for be it a home appliance and good with this interior aesthetic or something made for the that can do really high volume. And so we've taken an approach of creating modular internal components and giving ourselves the ability to quickly change the - So, what's it like to have another tube in our life? The only way to find out is to build it. This is Peachtree Corners, a technology park outside and test new infrastructure technologies. - I got a phone call probably and he's like, &quot;Hey, We wanna put pipe in your to do delivery robots.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Sounds cool. Not sure that will ever happen.&quot; Fast forward 9, 10 months, here we are and pipe's in the ground. - That's Brandon Branham. He's the Innovation That's some nice alliteration - Yes. Thanks mom, Brandon Branham. - Anyway, the folks at Pipedream were able to build a functioning prototype that runs underground for one mile. - We didn't want it to be too long, but we wanted to be long enough that we were really learning something, that was a significant distance. It kind of takes into we would encounter in a city. This is going into an office building. We're dealing with a landlord over there. Over there we're going we're going through a parking lot. All these little tiny little when you know you're putting - Has there been any complaints Or any of the the Morlocks? - We haven't heard anything, no. I think either they're good or they're prepping one heck of a lawsuit. - Putting something like isn't wild new technology. It's roughly the same as - Once we kind of got past the novel idea of underground delivery, why don't we look at this as Can it be done where where there's already massive sewer and storm water infrastructure? And what's been cool to see They do it day in and day So it's just getting to something new, and saying &quot;Yes.&quot; - Part of the stigma around underground is you only see underground infrastructure being put in when it interrupts your life. - There are now all kinds of ways to install underground infrastructure. And not just the big tunneling machines from The Boring Company. There are things like and jack and bore techniques to put these tubes anywhere you need them. - First time I saw the robot running, they told me it would I said, &quot;Not gonna happen. It's bumping around too much in there.&quot; But when I really got it really starts to show Like when you see that thing running through on the camera system and then it comes into &quot;All right, I think we're almost there.&quot; - We also control the acceleration and the jerk of the robot. And so we know that when we're not gonna hit And we also maintain the orientation of the tote at all times. It's very easy to optimize and that transportation is for that tote. - At their headquarters in Austin, they've got a working prototype of what this might look like in a house. So it feels like we were of the future as according to Pipedream. There's just this magical connects to this tube down brings it up to me, and then - Absolutely. - You magnificent bastard. This prototype demonstrates how a tote can be pulled from below ground. But at Peachtree Corners, they've also had to engineer solutions for retrieving the tote from above. - We talk a lot about and we're looking at a system that goes above our heads right here, a lot of what we designed for. So we had to figure out how bring it up above our heads, and then also get those and then back down to where - This experience is You open the drawer, and whatever you desired is found within. To be clear, airplanes, trains, and trucks would still move material over very large distances. No one's planning on between California and Maine. But once a delivery is within range, something like this tube for individual deliveries. - We've got an Amazon There's 110 trucks that roll out of there every morning. That's 110 cars clogging that are probably going in Why not do that underground, The UPS, FedEx, Amazon trucks, they deliver here six times a day, and that's just the big deliveries. Now we start to think about We've got all this traffic coming in, so as we start to think about you're able to move because you're not sitting in traffic, you're not sitting at that stoplight. It really starts to reshape the mobility options that are available. - This idea might still sound, well, like a pipe dream to think about installing tubes like this to every home or office, but just because something is improbable doesn't mean it's impossible. - We took this thing that had a 0% chance of ever being possible and a ton of super late nights, we've turned that into I think like where we're at right now is we've proven that you can do it, and we need to prove that you can scale it and that it can be something that's providing value to customers such that is worth scaling - But keep in mind that at the beginning of the 20th century, most homes still didn't That means at one point, someone had to install In other words, we've done - If they retrofitted before and they're still retrofitting today, why can't you retrofit for delivery systems and return systems? - And I think long term as we build out the infrastructure and and I could be wrong, but I really think it's one of man, how did we live without this? - So, picture a scenario where most homes had an instant As more and more delivery this tube would act as for the robots that shuttle things around. - Because if you can make it super easy, if you can receive items which is kind of our But if you can accept then we end up in a world where we don't have to have - Having near instant access to most goods could change like how we spend our time, or - So this comes into my house and I can order my groceries, and it's there in 20 minutes. Do I need a big refrigerator of energy from my home 24/7 hours a day? Or does that change? Is it more like that walkable city where I walked by the Now do I get a package that and return to a store at and drive to that return? Or can I now start to use - Could we store all our stuff offsite and have them delivered on demand via tube to free up space in our homes? Would our belongings be the way our data in the cloud is now? Beyond just storage, instant access to shared to make a lot more sense. For example, let's say you didn't own a specific tool like a sander. You could just rent one, have and return it as opposed of tools in your garage that you may or may not ever use again. - And not only am I spending I mean I have access to higher The world also doesn't need to put as much resources in creating those tools. So you get to this where consumerism and environmentalism aren't in conflict anymore. - On a related note, if anyone would like to borrow this sander that let me know and I'll see if I With all the emerging delivery services we may see in the future, we're beginning to for physical objects what the internet is for information. - I think people are as autonomous logistics as an how much we're using that. It's kinda like the when the internet comes online, then there's not a lot of websites and you're kind of like, Then all of a sudden we put There's services on top of it. The internet creates industries. I think in the same way, autonomous logistics and so drastically, so so many businesses that we can't even consider right now, that are just gonna change