Look at this fun fact: Did you know that to 100,000 kilometers, enough to wrap our favourite fun facts, used in our 100,000 kilometers is like... often but where did we get this number Welcome to an epic RESEARCH RIDDLE and led us on a strange and baffling We always collect interesting and fun facts to just perfect! All of your blood vessels, twice But one day someone asked where this number because it had to be true. If you google put together" you'll find the same numbers over You find it in books, blogs, webpages of reviews, scientific papers and articles. So it couldn't be that hard to The first perplexing thing we noticed was that books or articles quoted the original some linked to each other. It seemed like Very weird. Even worse and more suspicious some said it's the total length of capillaries, and others cited it as the length Something wasn't right. We couldn't let this what we do here and since we've used this personal. We needed to find the original There HAD to be an ORIGINAL source! Random googling just turned up thousands to the original. So we moved on to PUBMED, a 0 results. Ok weird. Maybe if we tried Nothing. Hm. Hm. Ok finally, we found a bunch of not a single one referenced the original source. The number also showed up in two contacted the authors but they told us for decades and they'd also be curious Maybe we needed to go back to the olden days - so starting with the 1990s. And would "Vital Circuits" by Steven Vogel. And And it turned out Dr Suzuki is an OG science doing popular programming in the 1970s on Canadian written 52 books. Impressive! He may either be So we ordered "Looking at the Body" "... If all the body's blood vessels were km (60,000 miles). That's about two But again. No source. It turned out his late 80s - so we thought maybe he might know where the number is from. He had no by writing a letter to Dr. Suzuki." Very old Dear Dr. Suzuki, we are writing to you on a matter of grave the 100,000 km? Our internet video and Respectfully yours, kurzgesagt fact checkers. Three weeks later we actually got a reply: "Dear weird internet people, recall the source of this data. And since the book files that old available to look it up. Good luck Kind regards, Ok they didn't quite use these words and Maybe the 1992 popular-science University biomechanics professor would "Combined length of pipes: 100,000 kilometers (60,000 miles)--more than twice So the book talks about this on one of Unfortunately there's only a list of 93 references and pointing to. Our original source may be in one Ouch. Reading all of those would take weeks. Was forest of human knowledge, looking for answers about? But we'd wasted so much time already, And now for a change we just got stupidly lucky. sources from last to first. And it turned out were looking for! A Scientific American article So we got a scan of this 65 year old science the original source. But it did reference where it of Capillaries" - a 1922 book by August Krogh, knew what he was talking about. So we ordered The book is a collection of Krogh's experts at the time. It summarises his research So here it was. The original source, used Supposing a man's muscles to weigh 50 kg the total length of all these tubes put kilometers or 2 1/2 times round the globe While other scientists had speculated on Krogh was the first to make a real estimate, Ok. And now that we were here - was it correct? Krogh's book includes this rather cryptic table, without calculations or explanations. It to us looking at it a century later. Book reading montage (maybe Zeitraffer) In a very breakthrough sciency kind of he cut muscle samples from different animals, assumptions. Today we know that his assumptions quite off. On top of that, he used a kind of with 50 kg of pure muscle mass. And this finally It would be unfair to blame Krogh - this was just for fun and out of curiosity, not elemental to so his incorrect number was used became dogma, eventually entirely At this point in our research, over a year google search and... While we were caught up up to the neck in old books, writing letters to not really getting a lot of attention from accurate estimate. If we had just waited another The deepest of sighs So now, here it is: According the length of all the capillaries and 19,000 km. Very impressive but A Sort of Conclusion If you look up the question today, answer but thousands of sources, using the wrong number. And it will In all this time, why did nobody bother to it's extremely hard and time consuming. As great deal of luck to get to the bottom and effort while you're writing a paper is science communicators. If a number seems most people, including us, end up Also: it's just such a nice, round once you've heard it. Facts that seem But that is exactly the problem, isn't it? The and often with each retelling, they get more to get to the bottom of things, and a factoid is When we started this research we didn't got a little peek into the kinds of mazes we sciency stories. They are as true as we can traps as everybody else from time to time. But give more context, and to bring you the latest Challenging common wisdom and following the you don't expect to end up. If you want to do a scientist or a researcher could open up new Today's sponsor 80,000 hours can help you on career advice organization that wants to help lot of good in the world. And their advice is Like us, they care a lot about making sure their consultation with experts. So they've spent the into topics like &quot;how much impact can one best ways to make a positive difference following a well-known career path isn't your only be many paths that make an even bigger difference The time you'll spend on your career is an impact. If you want to make the most of it, their in-depth career guide sent to your inbox We love going down rabbit holes. And while we try to navigate through all the we follow a few core principles: been said by others before. We We're always annoyingly persistent and But we are only able to pour this kind of the continuous support of our patrons. allow us to work on our videos until they us in our mission of creating factful and come join our patreon flock. In return, you'll exclusive behind-the-scenes insights into Become a Patron - become a part of kurzgesagt and help us provide trustworthy