Hey econ students this is Jacob Clifford. video [Music]. In these summary videos I quickly quiz, unit exam, or your final exam, basically But, I'm going to be going quick. Now I am going much the same as any introductory macroeconomics or you're preparing for the a level or CLEP exam one basic economic concepts. Now before we get to make a fist with your right hand I want you so just like this. Here we go this is round round two. Same thing on both hands thumbs out see how you do. Here comes round three. I here are two reasons why we did that activity. The going to see in an economics class. Some concepts Duh, I get it it's easy. And eventually things possibilities curve or supply and demand. But, going to get a lot harder like figuring out stuff is harder and you're going to feel confused. do fast, but you got to slow down you got to just got to keep doing it until you're like yeah watch me draw the graphs and do the calculations. have to do it yourself. Now the second reason out if you're willing to participate. If I had you didn't do anything round three you're just sitting setting yourself up for failure. If you're going to get the most out of these videos because video want you to draw this graph or do those your time. I know the questions your teacher you to stop and practice go ahead and try those your next exam. And, that's also why I created a Unit 1 study guide is inside my ultimate review preview. The link is in the description below sure you have the most updated version. So here unit one study guide. Have it ready to go and go. You've got your study guide, your video, you it let's learn some economics. Let's go! The There are five big picture ideas that you need to economics focuses on scarcity and how it requires choices. Number two the production possibilities goods that can be produced using all a country's production possibilities curve can shift outward from new technology. Number four countries that the production of specific goods and trade with if they produce everything on their own. And, using a demand and supply graph. Now that was the Every economics class starts by looking at wants but limited resources, which means you have to decide who you want to take out on can't take two people out. And, businesses have workers to hire and governments need to decide how are best to fight inflation or to promote growth. choices and decision-making. So that's why you're make you a better decision maker. Just look at the the top are in STEM but take a look right here resources a lot of students assume I'm talking we use money to make transactions but it's not a it. Instead your teacher Professor is going the four things we need to produce stuff: land anything from Mother Nature like water minerals work that humans do. Everything you did during there's physical capital and human capital. machines and factories used to produce stuff. training that makes workers more productive. taking economics. You're trying to increase productive and more valuable to employers. the person that brings together all the their Another thing your teacher or professor might microeconomics and macroeconomics. Microeconomics the decisions of individuals and firms things kinds of markets. Macroeconomic study is the economy. Macro looks at things like growth to speed up or slow down the economy. &quot;We are 2% goal.&quot; And that's what we're going to be doing very very exciting] And in this class we're going and the government both play a role. That's the government owns the factors of production and who gets it. Modern economies combine free market that's what you're going to learn in an econ That's all I'm going to say about the economic at the video that I made for the crash course to China and that lady was checking me out. means that it has a special government system I know it was super easy go ahead and take out In topic 1.2 you're introduced to a concept that It's the idea of opportunity cost. Because every choice has a cost an opportunity cost. the thing that you would have done if you didn't to the movies tonight is not just the price have spent studying for your economics class, that time babysitting instead. So individuals, by factoring in their opportunity cost, the thing very first graph you see in an econ class, the might call it the &quot;production possibilities that shows the alternative ways we can use our usually starts off with a chart like this showing be produced using all of our resources. When you possibilities curve, the PPC. Now there are is going to have you do with this graph: first, how this graph demonstrates different economic curve is inefficient because we're not using our is efficient, and any point outside the curve is enough resources. Second, your teacher will ask cost of moving to different combinations. For combination B to combination C is three bikes and E to combination D is two computers. The is show how changes move or shift the PPC. For the different combinations of consumer goods and what will happen on this graph when a country goes to having a strong economy and full employment. You might be thinking, okay we're going to outward. But no that's not what happens. What an inefficient combination where workers aren't at full employment which is a point on the these are new workers that are being added didn't have a job and now they're working. But or more physical capital then the entire outward to the right. Combinations that were have more resources. Now remember this is on purpose so if you need more help with the if you can answer the questions in topic 1.2 on and you're ready to move forward. So pause this do. Okay, by far the hardest top I in this entire advantage. &quot;it's not that hard Scott tell him.&quot; &quot; simple. Countries have different climates and one thing and trade with other countries that concept is easy but the questions you're Your teacher or professor is going to give two products, and numbers. In this case, the can make in one day. The country's products and four different types of questions: number advantage for each good. Number two, calculate three identify which country has a comparative a terms of trade that is mutually beneficial for four things then you are ready for any question have a bunch of videos on on YouTube that explain let's practice these four skills so pause the Okay how'd you do? Did you do well? I hope has an absolute advantage if they're better at you have to do is look at the raw numbers. The produce two planes so the United States has an And the US also has an absolute advantage in more than Canada. So the answer to question advantage in cars because they produce less than it's time to calculate opportunity cost, which is we know that when the US produces five planes of producing only one plane. To figure that out cost. It's the number of units given up divided two if five planes cost the US 10 cars then the can flip that to get the opportunity cost for one opportunity cost for one car is a half a plane. opportunity cost. Now let's go do the same thing plane and each plane costs four cars. By the way, the other one's going to be 1/4 if one's 10 the enough information to answer question three and &quot;who should produce planes? The country that up four cars?&quot; Obviously it's better to give advantage in the production of planes because has a comparative advantage in Cars. One car cost 1/2 a plane. So with these numbers Canada should should specialize in producing planes. But hardest. It's finding the terms of trade. We produce only one thing, but how many cars The quick answer is that both countries will get the other product at a lower opportunity cost we know that Canada should specialize in cars four cars for each plane. But if they could off. They could specialize in producing cars and a lower opportunity cost than if they made planes States. We know they should specialize in planes a plane given up. So if the United States can plane then they're better off. With trade they can if they produce them themselves. So to answer would be mutually beneficial. It would benefit by only giving up three cars instead of four up only a third of a plane instead of giving up you this is by far the hardest topic, so here's unwind. Now, hopefully you understood all of that, types of comparative advantage questions. The have to talk about input questions. It's very quiz or exam. Now watch carefully I'm going to into an input question. So here we go right now! the same the only difference is what those numbers the chart. It says this chart shows the number of one plane. So in an output question, those numbers Now we're looking at the hours to produce only production of cars? Well, now it's Canada because it takes the US 10 hours to produce one car. unit opportunity cost. If the US takes 10 hours to the opportunity cost of one car is two planes. So cost is actually the reciprocal, or it's flipped, just do exactly what you did before. Who should they only give up two planes and Canada gives cost. And, Canada should specialize in planes United States it's 1/ 2 a car. And trading one car of trade. Now I know I went over that last part summary video. I have more videos on YouTube. If my practice videos or my hacks video they'll give you're getting it. You're going to find out right study guide look at topic 1.3 I have two sets of questions, the one on the right those are input luck. Okay now we're moving on to demand and starts off with some basic definitions demand willing and able to buy at different prices and relationship between price and the quantity people want to buy is going to fall the price goes law is shown on a graph with a downward sloping be willing and able to buy if the price goes up change in the price of the product moves along than the price changes that could cause the suddenly more consumers in the market that would at every single price people are willing and able people sick then the whole demand curve would will be willing and able to buy less now of demand there's taste and preferences number and compliments income and future expectations question what happens to the demand curve nothing the demand doesn't shift remember along the curve just remember price doesn't shift yeah thank you okay new question what happens to Falls this would cause the demand for milk to consumers are willing and able to buy less because to buy the other good instead now you might be said price didn't shift the curve and also in the shift yes the change in the price of the product about a change in the price of a different product the actual product moves along the demand curve one of those five shifters change that's a change me I guarantee your teacher is going to ask you a to the supply curve Supply is the different sell at different prices and there's also a lot of and the quantity Supply when the price goes up down producers are going to produce and sell less are going to make more profit so they want to sell less because why bother so that means there's own shifters the price of resources or inputs intervention like taxes subsidies and Regulation practice show what happens to the supply curve increases milking machines are a key resource for shift to the left at every price milk producers milk okay now's a good time to stop to make sure guide fill out topics 1.4 and [Music] 1.5 now right here is the equilibrium price and quantity equals the quantity supplied and we assume that's the price is too high and above equilibrium then because sellers have all these extra units they're and when the price is below equilibrium and up because consumers will bid up those prices the something weird is going on in the market this unit is this next part showing changes and demand problem I sell ice for a living when step one is draw supply and demand and label step two is analyze the change is it going to and label that new curve and don't forget to draw identify the new equilibrium price and quantity did quantity go up or down and remember that's what's going to happen when there's a change in quantity oo that's a rough business to be in right practice draw market for for ice cream and show significantly [Music] decreases you start with analyzing ice cream and the price of an input fell going to shift to the right so make sure to draw new equilibrium price and quantity and the bottom know it seems like there's a lot going on here but demand can increase demand can decrease Supply can when there's double shifts sometimes you might both demand and Supply shifted when you see that shift at the same time either price or quantity is be able to tell it could go up or it could go down says the demand's going to fall and the Supply and [Music] quantity to get the answer just draw a decrease in demand will cause the price to go in Supply will cause the price to go up and the quantity is definitely going to decrease the price that's indeterminate or your teacher might use the go up might go down you can't tell but remember single shifts you know exactly what's going to going to go up or down double shifts something's Professor is going to ask you some questions your unit exam but the real reason you have to and demand cuz you're going to need it in future out all of topic 1.6 covering everything you need luck okay now you're done with your study guide should do is the unit practice multiple choice yes you are going to have to draw a supply and choice questions and when you're ready take a ultimate review packet try those questions on your more help watch the video where I go over all the if this video helped you please give it a like subscribing thanks for watching until next