In this video we are visiting some iconic Roman pizzerias making authentic Roman thin crust Pizza baked in wood fired oven and topped with some incredible ingredients we are visiting 99-year-old Bakery operating 99-year-old oven and we're going to enjoy some amazing Roman pasta in local Trattoria we are going to indulge in the best gelato in the city INCREDIBLE! And we are visiting a local market to experience all the smells, colors and tastes! Hello and welcome to Rome! Join me on this incredible street food journey through the Italy's capital city of Rome. Let's go! We just arrived in Rome and we went straight to the Testaccio market and this Market is full of colors and smells amazing food wherever you turn wherever you go so let's check out this place. This Market offers wide variety of regional food plenty of dried meat salami, Prosciutto Crudo plenty of fresh vegetable cherry tomatoes in any color Francesco Totti advertising Guanciale, Rome's favorite pork cheek bacon. Busy vendors and their eager customers buying some tasty food and very fresh local produce. But let's not forget all this Italian street food at the Testaccio market some healthy options then some hot traditional food and then some fresh pasta cooked for you on the spot. Unavoidable porchetta, the roast pork and of course Pizza In Teglia traditional Roman Pizza on the go offering some amazing colors and combinations. And Italian Panini with a twist made with different types of slow cooked beef and other meats! We opted for this home cook style, tasty looking food We got beef, smoked cheese and pistachio meatball then we got salmon meatball then rice stuffed Tomato and we also got ricotta and spinach cannelloni. So let's start trying this food one by one. A bit strange structure but the color is expected on this salmon polpette. It's full of salmon but it's also cold and a bit dry it's okay if you like fish I'm not really that amazed with this uh salmon meatball let's go with the beef one very juicy meatball with smoked Scamorza cheese inside and very nice and crunchy pistachio skin on the outside, let's go! This is now much more up to my taste nice taste of that beef onion inside Scamorza cheese an excellent meatball! It's stuffed Tomato time! Nice and juicy tomato, rice has soaked up all the flavors here! Very simple yet another very good Italian dish. And ricotta and spinach Canellonni soaked in tomato sauce very simple but very tasty Italian pasta stuffed with ricotta and spinach, let's go! Tasty stuffing the pastry melts in your mouth and the sauce is tomatoey and sweet. Thumbs up for this dish as well. Total price: Very nice experience at the Testaccio Mercato but we don't stop here so see you at the next place. Next we went near the &quot;Spanish Steps&quot; in a very touristy area. Where among the other things you can try an ice cream inside the lemon... For a not so light price of EUR7 each. From there we jumped to the Trevi Fountain and visited Captain Candy. The artist who envisioned the Trevi Fountain obviously didn't expect it to become a selfie magnet one day. At Captain candies there's a lot of bounty: toffy caramels, gummy snakes many different sweets and some ginormous gummy bears Total price 18.77EUR. Captain Candy cannonballed our budget! In the evening we decided to go for some proper Roman food. Behind me is Pizzeria La Montecarlo so let's check it out! Very busy kitchen of La Montecarlo almost as a racing track and a team of skilled pizzaiolos are as precise as a clock These pizzas here are called Montecarlo named after this Pizzeria and they are trademark of this place. Just overfill with ingredients from onion, artichokes, sausage, an egg, mushrooms, tomato sauce, olives and even a roast pepper Bubbling up the thin crust Roman delicacies. And off they go! But what else is cooking? Pasta vongole ready to go out. Rainy evening in Rome and a perfect time for some authentic thin crust Roman style pizza! Our pizza Calzzone is getting ready and the main ingredients are Prosciutto Crudo mozzarella and eggs and some mushrooms Monte Carlo Pizza waiting its turn for the oven. Just rich with everything Monte Carlo pizza and nice colored Calzone all the ingredients you could wish for are on top of this pizza. Mouth watering pizza Calzone full of cheese and mushrooms and perfectly baked the pizzas are here and we are very eager to dig in! Egg yolk bursting and soaking up this Pizza! Delicious ingredients on top and perfectly baked at the bottom. This pizza is an overkill in any possible meaning it's just full of toppings it's crunchy on the side it's juice inside it has meat it has artichoke it has anything you could wish on pizza and it's a true and proper Roman style thin crust so let's go! For me this is a pure heaven all these flavors inside and especially the pepper is such a good taste this pizza plus everything else involved amazing just an outstanding Roman Pizza Last slice of my Montecarlo pizza and I'm not giving up on it I'm going to finish it. Cheers! Pizza Montecarlo is what I needed on this rainy evening in Rome but let's not forget the pizza Calzone, so let's go Calzone is practically dissolving, tasty juicy, thin pastry again, delicious pizza Like always I was late for the desserts while I returned to the table desserts were already half eaten. Juicy looking tiramisu cake with very visible different layers inside nice and fresh, cool, creamy, just genuine proper Italian tiramisu nice and bouncy panacotta with thick chocolate on top Chocolate has very strong taste it's like dark chocolate but still still sweet enough. Proper taste of Italy. The same beautiful experience was with panacotta caramel Total price 57EUR. A great evening at Montecarlo Pizzeria we really enjoyed both pizzas and desserts the atmosphere as well on this rainy evening in Rome so see you at the next place Our breakfast destination 99-year-old bakery! Very bubbly dough being massaged some olive oil some sea salt and this pizza in pala is ready for baking. For sure the longest wooden shovel that I've seen in my life this oven is 99 years old and it's using only hazelnut husks for its fuel. It's quite deep inside the oven and its baking capacity is quite huge The army of fresh dough waiting to be baked. Just beautiful golden color and and an incredible smell. But let's see what kind of tasty food they have in their shop. Plenty of savory but even more so of sweet choices. We got egg and spinach frittata small biscuits called Brutti. cheese and zucchini pastry tomato sauce puff pastry and chocolate chip biscuits this frittata is overloaded with spinach looks very juicy and smells very nice cheers! WOW! Beautiful taste the eggs are quite fluffy spinach is nice and soft not salty no strong taste very very nice breakfast option. Sourdough style pastry very soft tasty and crunchy on the outside the cheese is also very nice just beautiful. Very simple and recognizable puff pastry. Cheers! and Brutti, an egg white and pistachio sponge like biscuite. Egg whites topped with a lot of pistachios good choice as well. All the things I tried here frittata made the best impression for me really great food. Total price 6.32EUR. We enjoy the experience we enjoy the pastries but now we need to go to our next place. We are here in very local area Marconi neighborhood and we're going to eat some authentic Roman food so let's go! Trattoria dell'Omo serving Roman food and dishing out some amazing pastas every minute. We are here at this Trattoria with my good friend Michelangelo, it's his birthday today so it's also a celebration for us and this is a real authentic place for some real Roman food. our white wine of the house is here so we can make a toast! In this place forks make only one type of motion. Pasta is here we ordered pan Pomodoro then that thick and tasty pasta called fettucine in the shape of volcano and penne all'Arrabbiata for Michelangelo some pecorino cheese on top of fettucine and let's twist! The plate is full of steaming hot pasta tomato sauce pecorino cheese, guanciale bacon and now I just need to do that fork motion like everyone else PASTA BUONA! really good pasta a bit spicy very tasty tomato sauce, spaghetti are cooked al dente this is a beginning of such a wonderful lunch let's go! Time to try fettucine, let's go! Porcini have that recognizable taste but actually it's quite neutral and that's why my wife stole amatriciana pasta from me Total price 49EUR, a great lunch deserves a great gelato so we are heading to the nearby ice cream shop. Just few steps down the road is Torce gelateria an incredible looking ice cream shop And when you just think that things cannot get any better in Rome you get this incredible looking gelato. Cheers! Absolutely creamy top quality Italian gelato. And some delicious looking fruit sorbetto. I just tasted all the fruit ice creams that we've got as well and they really taste like real fruit: roseberry, strawberry, banana they have that real food taste and this is really a pinnacle of this Rome's food Adventure so, cheers! Incredible! And we got some more for the road. One ice cream = EUR3 As the evening was closing in I wanted to visit a very famous Pizzeria Remo A Testaccio behind me is Remo A Testaccio and this is one of the several iconic pizzerias in Rome Classic wood fired oven delivering pizzas nonstop! insanely busy place and a staircase made of pizzas Crazy and busy I somehow got a table because a lot of people are waiting and I didn't book in advance, so I was lucky obviously. my pizza is here and I ordered sausage and mushroom pizza and while the center looks amazing unfortunately the crust has been burnt so this is like you win some and then you lose some. I guess I'll have to avoid eating the crust. Perfectly baked at the bottom nice toppings the only minus is that blackish &quot;cornicione&quot;. Almost paper thin pizza and very crunchy of course since it has been slightly overbaked but even so very, very tasty Pizza Total price EUR12. Great experience just being at this Pizzeria at this hour and it's not even weekend and it's absolutely crazy with people it's so busy... And just after my glass was kind of half full after Remo I stumbled upon this very exquisite gelato laboratory with even some incredible flavors such as salty caramel, English soup and ricotta with orange. The owner is this lady that has been making ice cream for the last 40 years A true and honest local place where at 9:30 at night you have young and old coming here to enjoy the ice cream. I was born here we were born here in this neighborhood and we moved and we went, I liveed in United States yeah close to uh New York 20 minutes from New York... But Italy is Italy!?! Italy is Italy if you want to eat well, if you want fun you know, Italy is Italy! I was on my way from Pizzeria Remo and I just bumped into this ice cream laboratory and I was attracted by all these strange flavors with even stranger names but the flavors are amazing it's not too sweet looks like is naturally made and it's almost 10 in the evening and it's full of locals and people come in order their ice cream and you know that this is the right place to be. This country is all about family, friends, local neighborhoods and great food! I hope you enjoyed this video and if you did please like and subscribe and I will see you next time. All the best.