In the far north of Mongolia, where a surprising population The Tsaatan. They are known as the Reindeer people. There are only 200 of them, and today their traditional lifestyle Finding them involves a long expedition. It starts in this old Russian It will take me seven days to travel. I will go up from Ulaanbaatar, to the far north of the country. To the region of Lake Khovsgol, One thousand kilometers often in desert areas. Where's the bridge? The bridge? You're not on the right track. You have to go in that direction. Go that way. In the north, Three days in a van, to get where We delve into the taiga, where only a few Mongolian riders, still manage to find their way around. I had already made this trip I had met the Tsaatan I'd met a community of nomads, worried at seeing I wanted to come back to film them The Tsaatan told me to meet them here Alongside me, a Mongolian translator, Tuvan, a rare language, is still spoken After several hours of waiting, They come riding on reindeer. The only animal able to cross the icy paths in the middle of winter. Look at those two reindeer, I don't know what to do. They can't travel the road ahead of them. They're too tired, they won't be able to. We will have to spend the night here. It is minus ten degrees. The nomads improvise a shelter under which we will all sleep It looks like the snow has stopped. Yes, it's snowing less. It's good to let the reindeer rest. I'm going to add more wood onto the fire. The camp is a day's walk away. I'm struck once again which had made such an impact on me I find the family I befriended Meksa, the father is still dressed Not very comfortable His wife, Urchi... and their youngest son. Get out of the way! Stay over there! Dad! I managed to catch it. Sugara is nine years old. I will live with them for a month. It's the end of autumn. A pivotal period that precedes These nomads regularly change their camp, always looking for food We're always looking for lichen. We follow the reindeer. Yes, we follow them. That's why we live in the taiga. I have 100 reindeer. Got to sleep now. He said that you can sleep. I can't sleep anymore now. Because of me? Oh, sorry. He was filming you. I didn't know. Come on, move! However, Tsaatan's whole life In the camp, Sometimes this cohabitation Why did you undo it? Even attached, it's dangerous. This morning, one of the males is in heat If they fight one another, it'll escalate. Run! Run quickly! Sugara, come. That Tsaatan live in one of the coldest However, to be able to follow their herd, which are easy to transport. Don't spill on your feet, it's hot. I'll put it here afterward. Despite the lack of comfort, I'm a very lucky man. I live among such beautiful nature I'm so happy with my life. Here in the taiga, we do what we want to. We're free. The Tsaatan always surprise me. They feel privileged. Neither do the extreme temperatures What is the hardest thing in your life? In summer, the reindeer That's the hardest thing. We don't want a different life. Staying here is enough for us. The Tsaatan are used to gathering Next to Meksa's teepee He lives there with his wife Hulan I'm 25 years old. My wife is 26. We met in Ulaanbaatar. We worked together there. We wanted to live there, That's why we chose to live here. That was two years ago. I was born here. This is my mother's land, I was free to live elsewhere, I could never live anywhere else. Hulan, Huluk's wife, is not Tsaatan. She had never experienced and of course, she had never lived I discovered a new world Outsiders think it's hard to live here. They tell me that I live I tell them it's so beautiful. So beautiful that I never found it hard. At first I had to get used to the climate Now it's okay. I'm totally acclimatized to it. I'm so proud of my wife. She's so strong. She could live anywhere, She loves me At the age of one and a half, Whilst temperatures fall well he walks around half-naked. When we were children, without anything else. As an adult, you don't need warm clothes. That's why we dressed Gunnar like this. The first year was easy. He spent his time sleeping and eating. Now it's more complicated. He walks and he always wants With the cold, You're so cute. Come here My son is already posing. He stopped, he's not a star. Oh, you saw the camera? He's coming close. He's curious. He isn't used to you. He'd like to come closer, At the camp, little by little, Life trickles by, simple and repetitive. Only the chores of wood gathering and reindeer milking The reindeer milk, is stored on these wooden trestles Be careful, it'll break. Of course not. Yes, it can break. Your son already broke one, -What? When it's frozen, it doesn't break. I can break, I'm fragile. You're funny. You throw fragile things I'm telling you that frozen milk Even if it breaks, it doesn't spill. If we had a meat grinder, we'd already have finished -You scare me. Your hair is like a hedgehog. I'll do my hair again then. You're beautiful. He says you're beautiful. I look like a hedgehog. I have now been here for two weeks. The two families are used to my camera and let me They even make fun of it. You look over there. No. Show the camera your beautiful earrings. No. Huluk thinks I'm filming his wife However, I only find this out and have their conversations translated. Under the pretext of filming, I can't tell him, he would take it badly. If I tell him to stop, I filmed their daily lives, which seemed to have gone almost -Hey, what are you doing? Yet in recent years, the modern world The Mongolian government to attend school from the age of six. Now, during the winter, Children and their mothers where the school is located, whilst the men stay alone It depends on the age of the child. If the children are under six years old, the family can stay together When the child has to go to school, That is why their mothers Now our children have to go to school so we can't stay in the taiga. We have to go to the village If you don't send your child to school, We don't want that. If the child does not go to school, He will not be able to read, He will not be able to have a good life. Sugara, would you rather stay here Stay here with the family. -Of course. Do you like school? It's not interesting, so boring. Do you know of any families who refuse because they don't want to be separated? No, all the children go to school. We're not savages. In front of me, Meksa and Urchi However, I know that they are torn or offering their child In reality, they allow themselves The school year started two months ago, but they decided to keep Sugara with them This male is the leader We made a stock of wood in the forest. I'm going with him. You stay here, but I want to go. When I said to Sugara he immediately put on his best del, My name is Sugara and I'm nine years old. I'm a Tsaatan. What I like is looking School is hard. I'm sad. I must leave my dad. It's so great living here. With my family and the reindeer. I love you, little brother. I love you, big brother. For Gunnar, the issue of school However, Huluk and Hulan, his parents, When the time comes, I'll decide. I can't say for the moment. It's our choice. If we want to split up, we'll do so. If not, we'll stay here It will be very difficult. I can't imagine the separation. It's like you here, In recent days, the snow has started Winter is setting in. The lichen begins to run out. We will have to leave the camp. The village where the school is located Soon, the mountains will be impassable. Meksa thinks that it would be safer He decides to visit another family who live half a day away Six adults and six children In the taiga, visits are rare. The families improvise a celebratory meal. When it snows, It's true, you're right. Reindeer are happy when it snows a lot. You're too cute. What is he eating? It's pasta. We should bring several families Look, you can slide all the way down. We can remove the branches Sugara, shall we try to slide here? Yes, get out of the way! I can slide faster. Inside the teepees, The time to split up is coming. Now we have to live separately The weather is unfavorable. The Tsaatan don't know when to leave. It will clear up at some point. Where it's going, it's unlikely You laugh, but what will we do? When it snows, it's difficult. It complicates the situation. It will get very slippery. Finally, without my understanding why the two families will not manage Meksa and his family return to their camp. Two days later, the sky is clear. It's not easy. The luggage is well-loaded this way. Attach it here, that's good. Huluk and Hulan leave first. I see their belongings spread out Their entire possessions Watch your head. Goodbye, my teepee. Goodbye to the place where I grew up. Goodbye to the place where I was born. Goodbye to the water I drink every day. That's what we say Attach him well. We can't have him falling off With that, he won't be cold. The clan separates. They won't see one another again -Safe travels everyone. Safe travels. Their son is still young. Huluk and Hulan have no constraints. They go deep into the taiga They are free, Meksa doesn't dismantle his teepee. He will accompany Urchi where their other children already live. Then he will come back here and take them further north. The journey will take several days. Give me the binoculars I want to see. I sense that Meksa is worried. The snow that has fallen However, the family They have to cross four passes They walk between seven Sugara's endurance impresses me. At night, we sleep under the stars wrapped in simple blankets. The parents worry about Sugara. Tomorrow morning Otherwise, he will be cold. His socks are torn I'm young, I'm not cold. Tomorrow we will make you soles. Meksa is relieved. Crossing the passes was the most dangerous The reindeer did well. Yes, it was dangerous. When they crossed it, I wondered They risk breaking their legs At last, after walking for three days, In the plane, a huge frozen lake. This is where we find Sagar Nur, the only village One thousand people live here. Half of them are nomads A few kilometers from the village. Meksa built a log cabin during the school year. The couple reunites A girl and two boys. The two eldest but they stay in the village who has been back in school Put the dumplings in the water to cook. Where do I put the offal pot? Should I put it outside? No, leave it there, Meksa takes advantage to try to better insulate the walls. Inside the hut, for the first time, that is inexorably catching up with them. On the traditional wooden sideboard, a small television I wonder if they watch it and especially, Like old Tsaatan, and practice shamanic rituals. Every morning I offer nature and spirits I throw it three times For the sky, nature, mountains, It's been three days since we arrived. However, Sugara To my astonishment, I go to see this school that is shaking up It welcomes nearly 500 students A quarter of them are Tsaatan. Please, miss. No, you have not calculated correctly. You have to multiply, not divide. Thirty teachers and professors The head teacher of the school I feel she is very invested For someone from Ulaanbaatar, However, I was born here, in this region. I lived and worked in this village. Around ten years ago, There I worked as a teacher, and even academy secretary. Then I decided to return to my place To develop this school, Today, almost all Tsaatan children but some in a very irregular way. This is the case for Meksa's elder sons. Bhaskar on the left went to school Sounya on the right, I ask them about their future and about what they'd like I don't know. Tsaatan like my father. I have no idea. I want to be a horse breeder. I'd like to take care and follow the reindeer in the winter. I love this area, and keeping cattle. That's why I didn't go to university. I missed the reindeer too much. It is so beautiful and especially so cute. The choice of the two boys Yesterday the children brought back milk. Which is richer? The reindeer or the cow? Reindeer, of course. Galia is 72 years old. She is the children's grandmother. She doesn't really understand them. Do they want to leave school Yes. If they really choose this life, Sugara and Soumya will grow up, and over time, However, without knowing how to read it will be complicated to find a wife. Then they will be forced Later, they might regret it and say... why didn't you send us to school? Obviously, a child It's up to the parents to force them. Days go by and Sugara stays home. I sense that Meksa is sad and nostalgic. He will soon leave his family and head off to the taiga We have no choice. Reindeer need to eat lichen. Here they have nothing to eat. Meksa doesn't really want to talk. I try to ask him about Sugara, It's his choice. Do you always let your children decide? Yes. Are you scared for your children's future? I don't know. I hope they will have happy lives. What do you think of today's world? It's going in the wrong direction. I wonder how the Tsaatan will manage between their tradition and this modernity I leave and promise Three years later, I am back in Mongolia. Curious to know what has become I head to the taiga In this freezing cold, the world of the Tsaatan Even more isolated. Huluk and Hulan still look so in love. Gunnar is four years old. He has a little sister. I showed them the images which I filmed. Meksa, like every winter now, I find him in the mountains Sugara, his youngest son, However, Meksa tells me half-heartedly or very infrequently. Soumya, the youngest son, is there. This is the first time he has accompanied Together, they will carry out They will take their herd of 100 reindeer The Tsaatan delves As their ancestors It's between minus 25 Three days on reindeer Fatigue and cold What's up? You have runny eyes, My eyes are full of tears, Teary eyes are not good. It's the wind that's making me cry. Hey, there's a lot of stones. Ooh, I almost fell. It's really not your day. The nomads only stop when they find At the camp, or female voices. From now on, it's a man's universe. The breeders will now live separated They'll return to the village, each in turn, When I'm here, I think about my family, When I go down there, Meksa resigned himself to spending However, he wonders how much longer Lost in the heart of the taiga under a simple teepee.