Today we're visiting the location that forever changed the world's history. Pearl Harbor. A Japanese attacked here, brought the United States And here you can also visit the battleship and the war is over. [music] Filmed before the pandemic When you come here See? It's a big memorial. You can walk all this here for free. And there are free attractions If you just want to walk here, there's a lot of information you can understand The main place everyone wants to see it's USS Arizona that sunk during the attack. It is very impressive. Look at this. And this memorial to honor everyone Even more impressive, over 900 people are buried there And a lot of other men chose to be buried here Visiting USS Arizona is totally free That's because you need to get that boat We cannot just walk to the memorial. So, of course, there are limited seats. [music] There are a few ways One is come here as soon as they open at seven, because they distribute The tickets have a time slot And during high season, That's what we did. We got here 7:15 We're in the low season, And also it's kind of raining today, so I guess not many people Another way is to book You can schedule weeks in advance or the day before your visit, at seven in the morning, because that's when they release There's a 1-dollar convenience fee, We just didn't do it the day was like this, so we figured... let's go to Pearl Harbor. It's so full of fish. Another way you can come here Then you'll have a guide who will explain you but it's gonna cost you at least $40. Here's everyone who died that day Before getting the boat you watch a movie here that led Japan And between the movie, the time you spend there, it's about 65 minutes. There inside, you can take videos, But out of respect, I didn't want and just talk to the camera like this, because it is a memorial. It is a place about everything You think about the people You see the oil that still So all this makes you think a lot. A lot of people there They stay quiet And I thought that This was the situation here This was the day of the attack. All these ships were here, they honored U.S. states and also some U.S. cities By the way, you hear while I record this because this is still More than 40,000 men Oh, as a huge something that I learned here today, U.S. radars detected a large coming towards Oahu, they thought it was a U.S. fleet that was also supposed This is one of the anchors recovered from the ocean. you cannot come here with bags Where is yours, Gordon? See? Like this. They have a locker here but it's $5 per unit. Here you can have See? You arrive here There's the submarine When you come to the Arizona Memorial, So the boat brings you here So you need to make your way back here like USS Oklahoma Memorial, USS Utah, There are four sites to visit and they recommend You can decide if you want or how long you want to stay. There you get the tickets And here you have to buy and Battleship Missouri. -There you go. So you know where to get the shuttle? -Over there, right? -Thank you. -Have a good time. We're going to see Do you know what's the most important -No. -Oh, in Japan. -Yeah. That marks the end of the war. [music] -Thank you. Thank you. We're about to visit USS Missouri. This was one of the largest wartime vessels of all times. Water Wow. Look at the size of this. When you come here, you can join It lasts for about 35 minutes. And then you can explore indoors Woman: Welcome to the USS Missouri. This is the exact location where the end There's a picture here of that day. And there's a mark over there where the table for the signatures This is the exact location Oh, there are signatures from lots of countries here. United States, China, UK. They even had here the deck plan The first to sign had to be Japan, then the United States, and then China, UK, Canada, France, New Zealand, The original document of that day. Now the signature didn't happen here. Here's Tokyo Bay. All the U.S. ships there, including the Missouri, here. End of World War II. Kamikaze attack site. Oh, they were able to register a picture seconds before it hit this ship. Luckily, the bomb that it carried and nobody here died. This ship is so tall that it's equivalent Look at the size of this This is massive. When you think you reached the top, no, all that still. That part is closed. This is the control room Basically, inside a bunker, you see? They only had these very narrow, Steep stairs here. It is really massive. You can't even list everything. A lot of small rooms here that you even get lost. It's a legal office, dental office. -Pepsi, no Coca-Cola. -No, they preferred Pepsi. An entire menu of ice cream, and then the main menu, Here's the kitchen, the amount of food to be prepared It says there, -Yeah, go get it. So tiny. So many people sleeping One, two, three beds. This was the room After World War II, this ship here and the Gulf War. I thought it was interesting the relationship between she made it clear that today of the United States. You can easily spend the whole day if you buy the passport For us, this is it for today. [music] Thank you so much. Have a good day. We were not sure renting a car for this day So we ended up going And between Waikiki and Pearl Harbor, it was $26, $27. So, in total about $53, it was still cheaper than renting a car, unless you want to go somewhere else far [music] What did you get? -Spicy what? -Tuna. -Okay. -Spicy, spicy. Try it, let's see how spicy it is. -Yeah, a little bit. -A little bit spicy? -Good? -Very good. [laughs] Mine is salmon with shoyu. And there are onions, and brown rice. It looks good. For lunch, we're going with something A poke bowl. We came to this place Mmm. Delicious. Mine is so good. Salmon, onions, rice, macadamia, and shoyu. You can eat either with chopsticks like Gordon. [laughs] If you like Japanese food, because it is very similar in a way. Poke is made with raw fish. Now to finish with all the rice here better go with the fork. Delicious! And what's more impressive, That was in total. Local food in Hawaii is the way to go. Everywhere where the ship has been, they went to Rio. The ship even went to Rio, 1947. Travelogue. That's because after World War II, they had five years of visits Until war hit again, Korea. Now Battleship Missouri