Imagine a completely flat country..., completely dry..., as landlocked in the south of Africa.... and those of the bushmen... and a few others: since independence Blue represents water, a real We come from the end of the planet to But this country deserves other detours, has the discovery begins in Maun. The country's most famous site: the Okavango Delta. In the language of the Sans, Maun means The city was founded in 1915, along of which no one knows precisely it is fed episodically Originally we crossed Proof that there are not many remains Maun remained a dusty town for a long time where We already met these women in their the hereros arrived here at the beginning of the 20th present-day Namibia - where they were threatened with genocide. very old convention which provided, if Maun really developed from 1970, when the delta opened up to tourism. 0 inhabitants, is still booming.... job, or to create a trade enjoy ambient dynamics... that all Okavango's dreams come true. specific means... know- In Maun we often prepare ourselves for an extraordinary safari discovery of one of the most mythical sanctuaries Moremi is THE reserve of the delta,... its core. difficult tracks and stretches of water This animal sanctuary was created in 1963. have been initiated by a local community. The wildlife there is exceptional, Innumerable rivers of all sizes gigantic hydrographic network. On the ground From the sky we can better understand the The Okavango River has spread it has spread inland, over 0 km2. .. 95% of its water will eventually evaporate... It is the largest inland delta in the world! and the face of the delta In places, dry land dry season, because the majority of these areas the waters of the river are at the beginning of their cycle. there is this other way: let yourself be the mokoro is a by the supports of the long pole. is the only noise that disturbs It's a unique experience, as the reeds and banks conceal so many So, you have to imagine... who have traced these water corridors, by The water of the delta, filtered by the Today most In the past, they were carved from the As it takes a hundred years to grow a tree and these species became Fiberglass also has an advantage: pay for itself for polers who have to finance only lasted a few years. tourism, basketry also finds It is the privileged artisanal sector of the country. The women of the Okavango tribes They use as raw material the fiber of the This delta must be bypassed to the northwest The asphalt road passes off the fifty, sometimes sixty kilometers away. a more rural Botswana, where housing Life is hard for Here, the standard of living can be very of the road, you can just earn something to there are almost 400 km between delta and the northwest border of Botswana. He has just crossed Namibia, cutting the Less than fifty kilometers his country of origin, where he is called Kubango. the okavango presents for 80 kilometers that of a large watercourse whose banks To designate this part of its course, would be the handle of a saucepan This is why we call Here, as everywhere, the height of but the okavango maintains It flows forcefully and without incident in a Given the importance of the current, really suitable for exploring the banks. birds and all those who are interested in them.... shelter for wildlife and the waters full of fish Fishing and ornithological discovery are of this region which has until now remained While waiting to be able - perhaps these women will go down to the The activity is dangerous, because of large crocodiles. found themselves in the paddocks of a nearby farm. five meters tall, is enjoying a peaceful retirement. we give birth and raise This requires large quantities of water: it is There are, at this time, more than thirteen They are raised there until Under these conditions, they grow They have their best market value Since Botswana banned it is one of the last establishments of its kind. region, we are instead counting on the development kilometers away: the Tsodilo hills. fairly modest reliefs, which emerge at the are four main hills. 400 meters above the surrounding ground level; it is Tsodilo is listed as a world heritage site We have already counted more than 4000... It is one of the highest Tsodilo is said here to be The site was inhabited. It has a strong for local communities. of the gods and the place where man The origin of the paintings remains enigmatic but most of the others are At the bottom of this enormous rock we can see the a whale... As the ocean is more the artist of the San people could have been inspired ! are confined to the Kalahari desert. This is the heart of Botswana, a region unnoticed by travelers for a long time. It is home to a variety of wildlife, as vegetation The fences demarcate large areas some properties are being transformed This one is 20,000 hectares....we have traced with around a hundred kilometers of fences. to complement the original ones, create to supply them and finally erect the You don't come to the We are here hours of track time Nothing is left to chance to The animals are attracted just in front of the reserve management This time we have to know why this wildebeest disturbed predator and sick prey. we also look for traces of an attack or that cannot escape a bushman. the skin of the animal is incised to make the work of the If the wildebeest were sick, this The reserve permanently employs a few bushmen. their traditional outfit to some of their survival techniques. this country. They know because it is very capricious on the surface. river that we crossed before reaching It took 20 years and 2009 for the waters of the delta to The animals come back to drink there... But the level remains insufficient natural outlet, the sides of the Magkadikgadi... great salt lakes , you have to go through Gweta. five thousand inhabitants. idea of the daily life of Botswanans who There is no nursery school; but Botswanan children go to school; in uniform, Tuition is completely free until a little or apply for a scholarship. of money on education and health. the population, is a national priority. are covered. the children sometimes go through the home a bag of rice or flour.... Not all houses have running water, At the Gweta hair salon, there is both When there are no customers at the salon, to do some ironing or sewing there. where everyone can come and use Many never come there; the small hut which houses the beer bar. chibuku, the traditional drink But we come to Gweta to experience another discover the great salty areas. extend over 0 square kilometers... and it is the largest in the world. The clay basin, the more men and And then, soon looming as far as the There was once at this place an immense lake, to the banks of the Chobe and the Okavango . caused all the water to evaporate. What It is a unique sensation to lunar landscape, in this desolate immensity. well-marked track crosses the Nata sanctuary. local communities to preserve this salt from the pans is exploited industrially. notably hosts a large colony of flamingos. viewpoint, where there is a little water left. a reality, it was first necessary to move the 3,500 We cannot imagine the effort it They care about their animals more Botswana has more This country is, traditionally, Animals that feed freely are gathered from time to time at Botswana meat is of high quality. His Most of the production is exported But a wealth threatened by foot-and-mouth disease, transmitted among cloven-hoofed animals, To control and limit the development place veterinary barriers. from one infected area and going to through these disinfectant baths. to clean their soles. These controls were introduced when Botswanan meat due to the health risk. the oxen have regained their share in That said, it is not with its of roads or its ambitious This is thanks to diamond products. in 1967, Botswana was Today it is the largest As soon as he exploited this unexpected treasure, growth on the planet for 30 years! An prosperity, the Capital, in the south of the country... nowhere on the site of a large village It is this village that was chosen to make it the capital of the brand new country. only a few kilometers from the South that crossed southern Africa. As we created it from It has two hundred thousand inhabitants. in ministries and services. the fortune brought by diamonds... especially since In Gaborone the standard of living is high... shopping centers which have flourished outside Here, we are far from the Okavango, But there are only ten two million Botswanans are city dwellers! in the towns that have developed within a These are in fact large villages that traditional huts, and we allow ourselves to be The Botswanans import almost everything no factories... .and there are only businesses Artisanal production remains marginal. in the small town of Gabane, Pottery is created there. Along with basketry, The products are very simple and the soil collected right next door. day, without stopping for we are entitled to a few consecutive days of rest. have come to settle in the city to go back from time to time to see their family Which means, nine times out of It crosses the country from bottom to top the second tourist town in the When we approach it, the fauna becomes very already occupy 20% of the total surface of the country. the northern border of Botswana. It mark the limits of the country, it is a Here we call it the Chobe. On the other shore, it is Namibia.... borders of Zambia and Zimbabwe The road which serves Kasane and which Animals from the surrounding savannah must baboons and warthogs undoubtedly see always offers them opportunities... There is indeed a forget the traffic and its dangers. We must take care of them, avoid as much as possible access to water... small forest just next to it, cross To channel the flow of pachyderms, a fence in which we provided access points. because there is no question here of taking animals... they are the wealth of the city. It is the second tourist town in the country..., gateway to one of the richest regions Here, almost everyone works The river is the preferred means Along the banks, we can see of all types and capacities. any cruise begins with an at the national park pontoon. upstream from the city, at the access point to a The Chobe National Park, which extends to the Lebanon, Qatar or Jamaica. Botswana's first national park. front is one of the most accessible to the Chobe always has a good flow, So we observe both species that are depend on it in a vital way. concentration of elephants in the world: there They exert enormous pressure on the environment endangers the balance of the ecosystem and This is a debate in Botswana! on these shores: the case of Sedudu island. Botswana fought over this ...on principle! because it is a for the elephants and buffaloes which inhabit it. in The Hague ruled: of the water in the two arms surrounding it, It is at dusk that the It is also at this time that the All the boats left Returning to Kasane at Early morning is the ideal time to overcome the park looks like when you explore it from the inside. but it very quickly reserves wild dog! one of the rarest predators. but it will be wasted effort, the animal will Chobe Park is famous for its predators. hyenas and its lions are known They left there the remains A few hundred meters further on, the the animal most sought after by With its extraordinary wildlife Botswana attracts a This is the assumed choice of this wise country: to the environment and to take advantage of its Do not rely solely on diamonds, the price of which we We are used to reversals of fortune here. Gold was discovered in this small The vein immediately attracted a town developed along the Tati River. From this time, only a "Blue jacket" is the name .... and then, a little at a time, the closing the last gold mine. returned to their little trade. : Francistown then experienced a real It became the second city in the country. It Today we come from The atmosphere is vibrant, warm. The city But the temptation of a Western life To show off one's success, one gets married &quot; sign of the times, a sign that the links are the traditional dances, although already Botswana, day after day, is on its history as a poor country with no prospects. The world's leading diamond producer, it the end, it is only the country's first people, Often despised, not Truly integrated, the strive to at least keep