Good morning, guys. So much of this channel is about Different styles of living. So today we're going to go A very remote place. Through a tunnel under a glacier on the other side is a building. In that building the post office the market the school everything self-contained. Let's go on a little adventure here to Whittier, Alaska. PETER: Okay, here we are You can see way up high there, a glacier. Waterfalls coming down. And this tunnel, is shut off at 10:30 every night. This is the one way in by road. There's also a port. So it's somewhat isolated So it looks like the train tracks So we're actually driving So that, I'm gonna say, That was a long tunnel. Felt like being in a mine shaft. So, this apartment building has roughly 200 And as we can see here the cruise ships also come into this port. So it must be a well-protected port and probably some of the industry here. Here it is, here's the building. Looks like something So let's try to get a look-see... Meet some people. I'm just gonna sort of walk in and hopefully not be Hopefully we meet some cool people Okay, it seems like It's probably the big industry. &quot;Hodge Building&quot; &quot;Circa '56 to '60&quot; Cold War story, great. I'm not gonna read this all to you but, &quot;Communism was on the march across So giant radar system out here. The Aleutian Islands [door opens] [whispers] Okay, here we have Some of the history here. Look at the building This was the hardcore pioneering times. Get your camera rolling right now and when we go past this door PETER: Okay. -[Peter whispers] Post office. Oh, I know but it's okay. It's okay. &lt;You know what, &lt;I don't care what they say. [woman laughing] PETER: I gotta meet this guy, See, that's the Begich Towers... Agenda for the annual meeting. PETER: Okay, so this is PETER: So you're talking about We pay $450 a month already. -For just utilities? JOE: No, but also for the reserves. -Okay. -maintenance needs that are unfunded. PETER: So there are a lot of JOE: Yes. JOE: I mean, who's gonna fix the roof? -What if the elevators go out? JOE: What about replacing You have to see Hawaiian Whittier. PETER: [surprised] Hawaii? JOE: This is our house. We have decorated it to look -Just to get that aloha spirit going? PETER: All right. &quot;If we have to be here for a while PETER: You're together? JEANNETTE: Yeah, this is my husband Joe, PETER: [surprised] Oh, I didn't... [all laughing] -We've been married more than 50 years. and then I thought -Okay, so this is your place? PETER: Very cool. I'm sorry that you didn't understand &lt;Okay, that's cute. What's the secret? &lt;It's been a long time. &lt;That's a lot of love, I can feel it. No contempt. -Okay. Saying things like, &quot;You always give me a problem with this.&quot; &quot;What's the matter with you?&quot; I mean those things -This is beautiful. and the rest of your life to stay married. [laughs] Remember this phrase. &quot;I'm sorry, That phrase works on most things. PETER: Followed with a foot massage. [all laughing] -So this is our guest room. PETER: Very comfy, cosy. -Yeah. PETER: And you're looking JEANNETTE: Yeah. PETER: Wow, that thing's raging up there. [Jeannette chuckles] PETER: That is very cool. JEANNETTE: And then this is our room. -Okay. JEANNETTE: And all the ladies like this. JEANNETTE: The Hawaiian bathroom, alright? PETER: Some privacy curtains. JEANNETTE: Well everything is from Hawaii. We have to deal with And we want to sleep at night and we don't close those curtains. So we close these curtains PETER: That's right. Tonight it will be light JEANNETTE: No, about 10:30. PETER: June, okay. But last night I got up about 2:00 -and it was really pitch black. You can sit here -...or the visitors sit in the view. PETER: What a view. PETER: Who doesn't love that? JEANNETTE: And last Sunday night and a black bear PETER: Okay. Oh, that's the school? In the winter time if you're a child and go underneath the street here in the tunnel -How many students did you say? &lt;Okay. And maybe about a dozen people One of the big employers PETER: Where are the kids from mostly? I would say the majority PETER: Samoan? PETER: The Samoans are here? ...that lives in the building. And they have church service -Would you say six or seven families? PETER: So I noticed that in Anchorage too. &lt;A lot of Pacific Islanders. &lt;Which I would never have thought -You think that would be hard for them. But one guy at the restaurant told me. He's like... &quot;Nice beaches don't Meaning there's opportunity here. He can get work. -Yes, that's right. And they work really hard. All the Samoans here work. They do baggage handling. They work for the railroad. They work for the tunnel. When you came in it was probably -...that was taking tickets at the tunnel. They work really hard. We decided to move the cabinets. We didn't buy new cabinets, Moved the stove and put everything Then when we were done... Uh-oh. The light switch So we have a paint stick that we use to go behind here [all giggling] But it's okay because it's Whittier. I mean it's Whittier. JEANNETTE: ...Floor is slanted. -Yeah, I've noticed. -Well, we're used to it now. PETER: So what's going on? &lt;Is there something wrong -Yeah, it is. It's Whittier. -It's not real life, it's Whittier. [chuckles] PETER: So when you say What do you mean by that? I mean when the floor is slanted you just have to accept it. That's all it is, it's Whittier. PETER: But with being Whittier do you feel detached Yeah, it is. The tunnel separates us from the world the same way that if We're not on an island but because we have the tunnel where you have to time your visits We are a separate community that's fairly isolated The world. I mean we've got Internet. We can follow what's happening in Germany. But so what, We were looking for a condo up here and I was talking to somebody &quot;Hey, I got a friend &quot;I'll find out what the numbers are, So he gave us the information. We came, we got the key, we looked at this we said, &quot;Okay, this is what we want. So I said, &quot;Okay, what's the name So he gave it to us and called him up and he said, Whatever it was. $40,000, all right. So we went to the title company and we said &quot;We would like to buy 1009.&quot; JOE: We had a contract! We went to the title company They called us back and they said, So we said, &quot;Well, who does own it?&quot; They said, So we called him up and he said &quot;Well yeah, I rented that condo and he hasn't paid any rent.&quot; &quot;But he wants to see it to you?&quot; He said, &quot;I'll sell it to you, PETER: Okay, PETER: Not only do they not pay they try to sell it. It's Whittier. [all laughing] PETER: So I see cameras, or monitoring, or how's that work? -This whole building has... PETER: Okay. Police are in the building They used to be on the first floor but now they're in -It's a big metal looking building. Anton Anderson, he was an engineer. PETER: He designed Yeah, the one that you And these are pictures of the tunnel PETER: So this was a US barracks This was the officer's building. This is where the officers lived. Now, this is what Whittier See, and they had these docks here Right about here is where -Yep. ...all of this was washed away. The tanks were on fire. A lot of people died and a tsunami washed them away. All of these buildings... A majority of these buildings because they were wooden buildings They've had fires here. This is what it was like &lt;How much snow do you get here? Well, I don't know exactly right now 'cause but 20 years ago they were getting I know one spring we came in here and the snow was about 'cause they'd been plowing the road and the snow was about that high. [pulling on locked door] -Oh, heck. This is one of the rooms [Peter whispers] Okay. &lt;So do you have Yes, it's 9:00 on Sunday mornings -and it's Samoan. -It's Samoan. &lt;But anyone can go, right? Yes, but the ladies The men wear their... They sing in Samoan. Neil preaches in English but practically all the songs JEANNETTE: Okay, here's more pictures It really doesn't look very pretty JEANNETTE: And this is how PETER: Okay, We saw it from your place. Yeah, see, peek in there. PETER: Okay, JEANNETTE: Yeah, PETER: Because it's way too cold JEANNETTE: Well it's just It's not really cold here. Minnesota and Wisconsin, they PETER: 'Cause you have the sea? -Okay, there's the church? But that's... I know they're using the room JEANNETTE: I really think, they could make a scary movie down here. -[Peter whispers] Oh, down here? -Can't you see somebody lurking around? &lt;Oh, it's a full maze down here. [laughs] They had a jail down here too &lt;There was a jail? It was a military building and this was the building So yeah, they had a jail I don't' know where. Now I have to show you here. In the winter time the wind blows so hard here on some days that you can't get this door open &lt;Okay. [door opens and closes] When you come in through the tunnel you have to know 'cause you're not gonna come and try to get this door open So you have to go around to the other side [door opens] Especially if you're my size. Okay, so this is real fancy now. -It didn't used to look like this. Now they have a timer on the door. So that if it stays open a long time It used to be that people would just and bring their stuff in on And you know you were -In the hallways. Okay, they have seen black bears because the bear will PETER: Okay, the bear JEANNETTE: Yeah. -And then right down here? PETER: Oh, my God. PETER: That is too funny. Now, the police station used to be -The police station? -Now this is Millie's store. PETER: Oh, this is great, you're... JEANNETTE: This is an amazing store. JEANNETTE: Yeah, Millie and Neil go to town probably PETER: Okay. Then you send him back to us when Millie's the pastor's wife. PETER: Okay. -There are a lot of Samoans here, right? &lt;And why are Samoans &lt;Just out of curiosity? Yes. My daughter, the husband, they were the one(s) that came here. First Samoan that landed here in Whittier. I don't know how They came here. They work here -Okay. -When they arrived here. They settled down over here. The oldest daughter -Mm-hmm. She call me if she can bring some of I say, &quot;Okay.&quot; Paid the fare and so 'cause, you know, -Mm-hmm. She brought some of my other daughters. Two daughters and my other son. Finally, they were the first one(s) Samoan, they got &lt;Okay. One of my son working and three of my kids as a firefighter. I think those are I came here with nothing. Me and my husband. So I work, like $10 an hour the couple asked me if I take over. So you know what? -Oh, wow. I had no money at all to give it to them but they saw me working so hard with them under me and my husband. &lt;That's amazing. So finally, now I own. I already pay off everything. So I own, it's been seven years now... -...since I own this. PETER: And this is JEANNETTE: Right. PETER: Religious organization, MAN 2: Yeah, Christian. He's a visible crew member because he's a musician but the majority of the crew on the ship because they're cooks, they're cleaners air conditioning technicians, plumbers and so the passengers &lt;Mm-hmm. people don't know There's emotional, physical, and spiritual. The emotional is they wanna come here and they wanna connect And know somebody ashore. These guys come here 'Cause we're the only people MAN: Like our second home. MAN: Like a family. Yeah, they come in here, So the other thing is physical. They need to come here and rest 'cause these guys work They don't have any days off. MAN 2: Except for musicians. [laughing] We usually engage with the guests. -We perform and practice. So they come here and they rest. They don't have to be on the ship and then spiritually... They come here, Scott's the pastor. &lt;Okay, Answers questions, prays for people. PETER: You forgot the fourth, Jeannette. -Oh, I don't... -Yeah. PETER: Fresh from the oven this morning. SCOTT: Famous fresh-baked cookies. Yes, these cookies are home made. SCOTT: We made 700 pounds of dough and put 'em in Ziploc bags, -in large fish boxes. I'm serious. &lt;Oh, I was making a joke. &lt;These are home-baked? &lt;Wow. &lt;And here's our Ukrainian captain? I'm not Captain yet. [all laughing] &lt;Hey, good... I am the captain of my family. [laughing] And this is Sebastian, he just joined... &lt;Sebastian just went through. PETER: Sebastian, nice to meet you. PETER: Where are you from? Warsaw, Poland. PETER: Oh, yeah. Moonlight in Vermont PETER: Igor's singing for me. We're going to play tonight. &lt;MAN: [surprised] Oh, you're gonna play? SCOTT: Yes! Moonlight in Vermont, tonight. Igor, that's so sweet because you found out Grew up in Vermont and you're gonna sing the song. -Not sing, play. -Unfortunately... I play, actually that's a good guess. When I was a kid After then I studied clarinet. PETER: So how do you like PETER: When you come to port. Actually it's such a remote Speaking about nature, air... And lovely, lovely people over here. JEANNETTE: Everybody had PETER: Why don't you JEANNETTE: One person complained &quot;We don't want anybody &lt;Okay. JEANNETTE: So now nobody [Jeannette giggles] Now, what is the answer? My husband taught you the answer. Because it's Whittier. -Because it's Whittier. [all chuckling] All right, I think... JEANNETTE: Here's the post office. PETER: I should probably get going. [sternly] Do not speed. Because that's when It's when you're trying JOE: Yeah, JEANNETTE: Yeah. PETER: And that's my one time to get out? To get out. PETER: Is there ever a time when &lt;Like has it ever been A rock fell out of the roof once So they closed the tunnel and that took a couple of days. &lt;Okay. Then there was the rock slide. Which happened in January. There were no cruise ships then of course but there was a rock slide -...on the other side of the tunnel. And I looked at my wife and I said, &quot;This rock slide will be Which is the day of the first ship and by golly, they didn't do a darn thing and in two weeks it was all fixed and that's the way it is still today. JEANNETTE: And the first day it was open PETER: Okay. -And then they had a... Yeah, but then they would JOE: Yeah, they had a thing -Now they... I drove in on train tracks. [both] Yeah. -Is there still a train that goes through? JEANNETTE: Yeah, and at 6:00, you will see the big long trains come in and all the passengers There's gonna be about Two trains that come in tonight after 6:00 and that's where they're getting PETER: Gotcha, so they just to whatever tour they're on or whatever? Yeah, the motto of Whittier is -That's the town motto. What that means is, &quot;Just go right on through.&quot; [Jeannette chuckles] [both] It's the gateway. It's not a destination PETER: I did the opposite. [Joe chuckles] JEANNETTE: Yeah, you're rare. PETER: Hug? -Yes, let's do it. Jesus Peter didn't come here by accident, Father, he's looking for You but maybe I just pray, Jesus, that this day would be something that he thinks about we live to join Him up. Lord God, touch this man's life. Draw him to You when he goes or all these different places, Lord God. Keep calling his name until he answers. In Your precious name I pray, Amen. Amen. Jeannette, you're amazing. PETER: So here we have the school here and then we saw the hallway underneath. And there we go, the building. Whittier Alaska. We got lucky meeting Jeannette. What a sweet lady. What a beautiful spirit bringing us in. Showing us around. Just a wonderful person. Really nice being in there. Uh, takeaways from the community for the sailors in there. The mission they have going. There was some things off-camera like some assistance, some help. A guy was going through a bit of a problem and there was community. And not like I could I'm sure there's all types but it was overall, something unique. In the sense that everything But there you go, another way of living. People choosing to be somewhat but at the same time, Thanks for coming along. Until the next one.