You don't have to be much of a science enthusiast light. Well, I'm going to tell you at least one that exist in our universe, can move away light. Now, don't get super excited. I'm talking about ways this can happen without To be ultra clear, I'm not talking about Or this. Or this. We're gonna have to go right to- ludicrous Ludicrous speed? Sir, we've never gone that fast before! I mean, I totally want to know how to go ludicrous But, unfortunately, and I hate to have to So, if it's possible to go faster than light, I mean the speed of light in a vacuum in a Under those conditions, the speed of light the metric crowd, precisely 299,792.458 kilometers 7.5 times in a single second. Light is like really, really, fast. When physicists use the symbol "c" to that they're talking about. So, how can you go faster than light? I can think of three examples, although they The first is cheating. When light enters a transparent medium like In glass, light travels at about two thirds In water, it's about three quarters. You can see the effect of this change in velocity water. The pencil doesn't really bend, but appears While light slows down in a transparent medium, That means that if you shoot an electrically traveling at near the speed of light at that faster than light in the medium. Cool, huh? When this happens, the charged particle emits This light is called Cherenkov light after Explaining just how Cherenkov light is formed video about it. But the blue light you see here proves that than light in a transparent medium. In this example, the light is formed when particles is immersed in water. It's all way cool. So that's maybe a cheat. Particles move faster than light, but it's light got slower. Are there other examples? Well there is another instance of information only briefly and this involves a topic called Quantum entanglement is a category of quantum predictions- cats both alive and dead and It is not possible to explain it in detail That would actually require not just one video, the highlights. In quantum mechanics, probability rules. Anything that is possible can happen, governed As an example, a subatomic particle can have You can't know which of those spins it has, It's important to understand that this isn't It's not that the spin is plus or minus It's both plus and minus and it becomes Now suppose you take two particles and set If one is plus, the other is minus, and vice When physicists do this, they say that we've You can't know in advance which particle You then separate the two particles by a large Say you find that it's a plus spin. If you look at the other particle, you'll And this will be true even if you look at it before a signal arrives from the first Einstein called this a "spooky action at in quantum mechanics can travel faster than Nobody understands this, but it's well established So that's a case of something traveling to send a message and it's still not the like the Starship Enterprise or the Millennium So let's talk about a third situation where And that's the expansion of the universe. Now I should be cautious. When you hear people saying "the universe a statement that requires some care, because that mean?" Well, obviously the universe can't mean galaxy. After all, none of them are expanding much, of light. In 1929, American astronomer Edwin Hubble and found that distant galaxies are moving are, the faster they're moving. This is now understood to be evidence that Using modern numbers, a galaxy a megaparsec per second. A megaparsec is million parsecs, which is use megaparsecs, so I will too. If a galaxy a megaparsec away is moving away megaparsecs away is moving away at 140 kilometers Three megaparsecs means 210 kilometers per So we know that the speed of light is 300,000 how far away we have to go to have a galaxy That turns out to be 4,296 megaparsecs or This means that the surface of a sphere, centered billion lightyears is moving away from us It also means that bigger spheres are moving A sphere with a radius 28 billion lightyears light. So, what does this mean? Does it mean that there are galaxies moving Yeah. Yeah, it does. Of course, it also means that we can never If objects move away from us faster than light, never get to our eyes. So, we can never see the light emitted by lightyears. The true number is a little different because changed over time. To get the number right means we have to take but those details don't change the big message. It's also incredibly important to be super The reason is that it's not precisely accurate from us faster than light. Yes, the distance between us is increasing, because the galaxy is moving away in space. It's kind of like putting a rubber duck The duck isn't moving as far as the water It's the water that's carrying the duck Or like drawing dots on a balloon that's The dots don't move on the surface of the increasing because the balloon is stretching. So it's entirely fair to say that there than light, but only in the sense that the Those galaxies are stationary, or at least space. They're not moving through space. I've described three examples of the phenomenon, of us who hope to explore the cosmos would According to our best understanding of the speed limit. Now, our understanding of the rules that govern it's okay to hope that we'll discover to go faster than light. Although unlikely, it may be that we will our prospects for exploring the galaxy, and figured out a way to go- LUDICROUS SPEED! People say that it's impossible to go faster probably true. But we've learned in this video about a break that rule. So now you have some tidbits to use at your You're welcome. If you like what you've seen, remember to We want to know what you think. And, as always, remember- physics is everything.