This video was sponsored Imagine you have a giant circuit consisting of a battery, and two wires which are each That is the distance light So, they would reach and then come back to be which is one meter away. Now, the question is, after I close this switch, how long would it take Is it half a second, one second, two seconds, 1/c seconds, or none of the above. You have to make some about this circuit, like the wires have to have no resistance, otherwise this wouldn't work and the light bulb has when current passes through it. But I want you to commit to an answer and put it down in the comments so you can't say, oh yeah I knew that was the answer, when I tell you the answer later on. This question actually relates get from a power plant to your home. Unlike a battery, the electricity in the grid comes in the form of which means electrons in the power lines are just wiggling back and forth. They never actually go anywhere. So, if the charges don't to your home, how does the electrical When I used to teach this subject, I would say that power lines are like this flexible plastic tubing and the electrons inside So, what a power station does, is it pushes and pulls the 60 times a second. Now, at your house, you can plug in a device, like a toaster, which essentially means allowing the electrons to run through it. So when the power station well, they encounter resistance and they dissipate their energy as heat, and so you can toast your bread. Now, this is a great story, I think it's easy to visualize, and I think my students understood it. The only problem is, it's wrong. For one thing, there is no continuous conducting wire that runs all the way from a No, there are physical gaps, there are breaks in the line, like in transformers where one coil of wire a different coil of wire is So, electrons cannot possibly flow from one the other. Plus, if it's the electrons that are carrying the energy from the power station to your device, then when those same electrons flow back to the power station, why are they not also carrying energy back from your house to the power station? If the flow of current is two ways, then why does energy only These are the lies you were that electrons themselves that they are pushed or pulled through a continuous conducting loop and that they dissipate My claim in this video is that all of that is false. So, how does it actually work? In the 1860's and 70's, there was a huge breakthrough in our understanding of the universe when Scottish physicist, realized that light is made up of oscillating electric The fields are oscillating and they are in phase, meaning when one is at its maximum, so is the other wave. Now, he works out the equations that govern the behavior of and hence, these waves, those are now called Maxwell's equations. But in 1883, one of Maxwell's former is thinking about conversation of energy. If energy is conserved locally well, then you should be that energy flows from So, think about the energy during those eight minutes the energy is stored and being transmitted in the electric and magnetic Now, Poynting works out an equation to describe energy flux, that is, how much electromagnetic energy is passing through an area per second. This is known as the Poynting vector and it's given the symbol S. And the formula is really pretty simple, it's just a constant one over mu naught, which is the permeability of free space times E X B. Now, E X B, is the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields. Now, the cross product of multiplying two vectors together, where you multiply their and to find the direction, you put your fingers in the which in this case is the electric field, and curl them in the direction the magnetic fields, then your thumb points in the direction of the resulting vector, the energy flux. So, what this shows us about light is that the energy is to both the electronic And it's in the same direction so this makes a lot of sense. Light carries energy from its source out to its destination. But the kicker is this, Poynting's equation doesn't it works anytime there are electric and magnetic fields coinciding. Anytime you have electric there is a flow of energy and you can calculate To illustrate this, let's consider a simple circuit with a battery and a light bulb. The battery by itself but since no charges are moving, there is no magnetic field so the battery doesn't lose energy. When the battery is its electric field extends at the speed of light. This electric field so they accumulate on some of making them negatively charged, and are depleted elsewhere leaving their surfaces positively charged. These surface charges create a small electric causing electrons to drift preferentially in one direction. Note that this drift around a tenth of a millimeter per second. But this is current, well, conventional current is defined to flow opposite but this is what's making it happen. The charge on the also creates an eclectic and the current inside the wires creates a magnetic So, now there is a combination of electric and magnetic fields in this space around the circuit. So, according to Poynting's theory, energy should be flowing and we can work out the using the right hand rule. Around the battery for example, the electric field is down and the magnetic field is into the screen. So, you find the energy away from the battery. In fact, all around the battery, you'll find the energy Energy is going out through into the fields. Along the wires, again, you can use the right hand rule to find the energy is This is true for the and the bottom wire. But at the filament, the Poynting vector is directed So, the light bulb is getting If you do the cross product, you find the energy is coming It takes many paths from but in all cases, the energy is transmitted by the electric and magnetic fields. - People seem to think that and that you're buying which is just so wrong. (laughs) For most people, and I think to this day, to think that the energy is around the conductor, but the energy is, which is traveling through the field, yeah, is going quite fast. - So, there are a few Even though the electrons go two ways away from the battery and towards it, by using the Poynting vector, you find that the energy from the battery to the bulb. This also shows it's the fields and not the electrons - How far do the electrons go in this little thing you're talking about, they barely move, they probably don't move at all. - Now, what happens if we use an alternating current source? Well then, the direction of current reverses every half cycle. But this means that both the flip at the same time, so at any instant, the Poynting vector still from the source to the bulb. So the exact same analysis we used for DC still works for AC. And this explains how from power plants to home in power lines. Inside the wires, electrons just oscillate back and forth. Their motion is greatly exaggerated here. But they do not carry the energy. Outside the wires, oscillating eclectic and magnetic fields travel from the power You can use the Poynting vector to check that the energy flux is You might think this is that you could see the either by fields or by But that is not the case, and people learned this the hard way when they started laying The first Trans Atlantic - It only worked for about a month, it never worked properly. - There are all kinds of distortions when they try to send signals. - Enormous amounts of distortion. They could work it at - What they found was sending signals over such a long distance under the sea, the pulses became It was hard to differentiate To account for the failure, there was a debate among scientists. William Thomson, the future Lord Kelvin, thought electrical signals like water flowing through a rubber tube. But others like Heaviside and Fitzgerald, argued it was the fields around the wires that carried the energy and information. And ultimately, this view proved correct. To insulate and protect the central copper conductor had been coated in an insulator and then encased in an iron sheath. The iron was only meant but as a good conductor, it interfered with a propagation because it increased the This is why today, most power Even the damp earth acts as a conductor, so you want a large insulating gap of air to separate the wires from the ground. So, what is the answer to our giant circuit light bulb question? Well, after I close the switch, the light bulb will turn in roughly 1/C seconds. So, the correct answer is D. I think a lot of people imagine that the electric field needs to travel from the battery, all the way down the wire which is a light second long, so it should take a second But what we've learned in this video is it's not really what's that matters, it's what happens around the wires. And the electric and magnetic fields can propagate out through space to this light bulb, which is only one meter And so, that is the limiting factor for the light bulb turning on. Now, the bulb won't receive the entire voltage of it'll be some fraction, which depends on the and the impedance of the bulb. Now, I asked several and got kind of different answers, but we all agreed on these main points. So, I'm gonna put their in case you want to learn more If I get called out on it and people don't think it's real, we can definitely invest the resources and string up some lines, and make our own power - I think you're gonna - I agree, I think you're (laughing) I think that's right. - I think it's just kinda wild that this is one of those things that we use everyday, that almost nobody thinks about or knows the right answer to. These traveling electromagnetic are really what's delivering your power. Hey, now that you understand how electrical energy actually flows, you can think about that every time you flick on a light switch. And if you want to take your the sponsor of this provides premium smart lighting control, including switches, remotes, And since one switch can you can effectively make just by replacing the switch. Then, you can turn your lights on and off using your phone, or you can use another device like Alexa or Google Assistant. Caseta works with more than any other smart One of the things I The lights in my office for example, turn on by themselves every evening. And this feature gives you peace of mind that everyone in your household will always come home to a well-lit house. And once you're already in bed, you can check which lights and do that from your phone. Installation is easy. Make sure you turn off and then disconnect the existing wires and connect Caseda's smart switch. If you need any help, they're just a click or a call away. Learn more about Caseda lutron.com/veritasium. I will put that link So, I want to thank Lutron Electronics for sponsoring this video, and I want to thank you for watching.