- Two, one. (structure explodes) - This is me reclaiming my title for the world's largest and tallest elephant toothpaste experiment, and this is a totally we discovered in all our experimentation called Devil's Toothpaste, which is insanely reactive I'll explain why in a minute, (loud explosion) Wow. And if you look closely in both shots, I'm not holding the trigger. This kid is. In fact, that kid was the whole reason we were there at all because of eight months of planning to throw him the most And all of this started inadvertently from a single surprise phone call. (phone ringing) What's up, Fletcher? - Oh my God. (Mark laughs) - What's going on, buddy? - What? (Mark laughs) - How are things, man? - They just got better. - This is Fletcher, and a year before this call. But unbeknownst to everyone at under all that amazing hair, They eventually realized and discovered it was a so rare he was only the sixth So his family uprooted and moved almost a thousand miles to be closer to St. Jude and would try and fix his brain. In fact, our call was the night for another brutal week of chemo. He's such a funny kid, by his hopeful attitude that I secretly vowed that if I would fly him and his with just the dopest birthday party ever. And not long after, I texted So he knew we had closely but what he didn't know is that for him and I to take back the record for the world's largest And as a quick refresher, last summer, my buddy Science Bob and for elephant toothpaste by filling up an empty swimming pool. I wanted to be able to swim So we figured out how to which is in fact safer, but and our video seemed to inspire some folks because two months later, this happened in David Dobrik's backyard where they didn't bother with the yeast and just took the normal reaction But then a few weeks later, these guys in Brazil did and they are the current And so even though Fletcher's birthday was still eight months out, we started our testing right away because I knew blasting a straight up into the sky wasn't and the part that concerned me the most was picking the right nozzle size, and here's what I mean. These three containers are identical except for the diameter of their outlets. If that diameter is too but it doesn't really go that high, Too small, and it will go high, but it just looks like confetti, and it doesn't look that impressive. But for every container, there is a Goldilocks that gives you that cool while still going pretty high. And you might think, &quot;Well, a typical flask that works so well and just scale all the dimensions up?&quot; And we tried that on our (contraption whooshes) And just as I feared, it and the problem is illustrated here. If you wanna scale up and double all the dimensions That's perfect. All these dimensions increased But wait a sec, the volume This is called the squared-cube law and its effects are everywhere in nature, such as putting a hard land animals can be is a function of your volume, but the strength of your muscles and bones is a function of their So since animals evolved to get heavier by the power of three, the power of two, at some So on the next five foot test, by a mere three and a half inches. But now the pendulum swung because while the column looked smooth, it didn't really go that high. And so finally for the third test, we let the pendulum swing back just a tad, and shaved down that to try and dial in that And sure enough, the and looked great, but this With such a high volume of some really high forces in the flask. I mean, that's a lotta damage, which quite frankly, left (upbeat dramatic music) And so with the Power Flex even further to a 10 foot to interpolate that Oh my God! (contraption explodes) So once again, the but our joint construction wasn't prepared for the further scaled up forces. In fact, score a fat W for the Flex Tape where you could see it single handedly held the thing together even as the screws and And we were realizing we just had to make the structure so over-engineered so the only option for the foam would be going out the top. And so while that wasn't a perfect result, I felt like we'd learned to design it strong enough for the final 20 foot world record version. In the end, we ran over 150 tests, not only to determine the right but things like does neck What happens if you vary the soap amounts? What effect do different All of these tests were really insightful, but perhaps the most interesting finding was stumbling upon something I've affectionately Now you might be thinking, That seems a bit extreme, Mark.&quot; But allow me to demonstrate. This is a shoebox full of hydrogen peroxide, that pretty much everyone uses Now here's the same volume of reactants, only this time using Devil's Toothpaste. Now see if you could spot (Mark chuckles) Not only is it hyper reactive, but the reaction is much hotter so you get these really Here's one more. Once again, this is normal in an Erlenmeyer flask. No big deal, people have But once again, here's the now only with Devil's Toothpaste. (glass shattering) And given how explosive this is, this may be irresponsible of me, but while we watch the replay, I'll tell you exactly how to make it. You start with (beep). Once that mixes, you're gonna (beep). Oprah Winfrey. (beep) Torch on the leftover rabbit And so by taking some we also intended to set only world record for the world's largest Devil's Toothpaste experiment with 400 times the amount And so after 150 tests feeling much more confident about our build plans and chemistry, we packed everything up and made our way to the small farming town We chose Gridley because graciously agreed to let us use his land, which is full of hundreds No, don't even think about it, fat Gus. He also had a great backyard and so with only four days left 'til Fletcher was flying we got to work on a 20 (upbeat bright music) And it took four consecutive 14 hour backbreaking days of labor in the hot sun because with so much time to plan the most epic birthday party ever, I just kept adding more and more ideas to the list we would need to pull off. So in addition to building the and the Devil's Toothpaste we also needed to make a a 3D bubble printer, a fire tornado, a slip and slide into a And even though I brought my buddies, it was cool to see this small town USA barn raising. If we needed extra hands 10 neighbors were there like And so the morning of the big day, there was still a lot of but things were looking pretty good. I'm seriously so nervous right now. I love pranks, and a surprise is like, the most wholesome type of prank. So I haven't been able to sleep for days just thinking about this, like every last detail And so with only one hour left, we did one final test run on everything. First, the Devil's Toothpaste. A perfecto. And then the 20 foot flask. For the real reaction, the whole bottom pool and then the troughs would dump over all the catalyst at And I should mention, one world record category per event. So we're going for the tallest, but when we did the math to the arbitrary height and this is a true story, it than the folks in Brazil who set the world record for the largest. And so don't mind me while I set these two gallon containers right here. And so as people started I hit the hardened streets to look for some kind And so after a bit of a warmup, 'cause these are all and that's definitely me in the costume, the moment I had spent the had finally arrived. And the cover story for the a walnut farm of a distant relative. - [People] Surprise! - And to provide a good juxtaposition, I wanted him to feel as awkward And then when we gathered for the picture, I snuck up right behind All right. Cool. What do you guys wanna do next? What should we do? His sister, Aila, also had no idea any of this was gonna happen. - [Fletcher] Oh my gosh. - You're kidding. - You're kidding me. Get in here. What's up, dude? - You are kidding me. - When I'm not making videos, - Mascot? To really stretch out the surprise, I wanted to think I was only So I had Dale suggest that I take the kids for a ride in his dune buggy, 'cause, you know, I'm a busy guy. I could do it. Like, 15 minutes. You guys wanna go for a Razor ride? Is that cool? Lets get the whole crew, your sister. I had about like a half an hour. So it's good to meet you in real life. - Yeah. - Yeah, let's go! (upbeat bright music) Don't tell mom! - Not a word! - Not a word, okay! Watch out for walnuts. A single walnut grows in one of these, which is crazy to me. All of those are just a single walnut. As we pulled up the driveway, in a precisely predetermined location where the view of the 20 foot flask was obscured by the truck. I heard it was your birthday, - [Fletcher] Well, - Oh yeah, tomorrow. I'm one day off. So Fletch, I've gotta come clean, buddy. You and I today are gonna for the world's tallest - Wait, what? - Are you kidding me? - You are currently in a YouTube video. I want you to wave to 20 - Hello. - We're gonna put all the and just blast it in the air. - Yeah, I got 15 minutes. - I actually fully cleared my schedule. - Oh my God. - With the surprise fully my heart rate finally lowered a bit, and I gave them a preview we had lined up for the party. Then we headed to the backyard where he saw the setup, and his mom. - You are devious. - Because at this point it had sunk in there would be no Walnut farm tour, and that her and I had For now though, it was time to party. (upbeat modern music) (upbeat modern music continues) - Nice bubble party, Mark Rober. (upbeat modern music) - Before we busted out the flaming bubbles or the bubble pit, we to check out the world's Devil's toothpaste experiment. Here we go, Fletcher! Three, two, one! (Devil's Toothpaste explodes) - [Fletcher] It worked! I didn't screw it up. - Science Bob came over and hooked us up with the slow-mo shot. Whoa! This shot was from a GoPro on rails, and we weren't quite fast And for some reason I found this like Wall-E level pathetically sad. You can see even in slow-mo, the reaction happened so incredibly fast. And I apologize for the but this has got to be the And afterwards, it kept oozing this rainbow Play-Doh extrusion thing. (upbeat music) It just looked like some kind And as you can see, over time, it just sort of deflates itself. And after that, we went and had some amazing, and of Fletcher face cupcakes, while the crew started prepping for the big world record finale. And in the vein of cool at my birthday party if I I, of course, had to bust out to light some fire bubbles. And finally, it was back to the front yard to top things off with the It was like belly flopping on a cloud. (upbeat music) And at this point, we realized to fill up than we had calculated. So it was all hands on deck before the sun went down. Oh, and this is cool. The bubble pit was dual it served as the bunker front row seat to whatever And so with the flask really Fletcher asked to take a very quick last minute ride in the Tesla - This one. This is in like, every video. - You guys are in a Mark Rober video. For the request, I gave them a quick ride. (passengers scream) - Look out! - Autopilot. - Oh my God! - The weird part is like it said, and I have a conversation and this feels very freaky, Remember our story, all right? 10 miles an hour tops. And so with the official our timing was perfect just as they were sealing up Okay, Fletcher, I'm handing To think you should have been touring a walnut farm right now. And so after eight months of planning and so much work by so many people, the coolest birthday present came down to this moment. Here we go. Three, two, one. (people shouting) - It worked! - It went from the bottom. - Came up the bottom, and lifted it up! Look at my truck! Let's go. - Oh my God. - What you guys think? - So cool. from the bottom. - Look at the truck, it's (upbeat music) Boom! (Devil's toothpaste gurgling) (soft gentle music) And I'd just like to point out how great that flowing column looks with a perfectly selected outlet diameter. That is, until things got chaotic once the pressure changed (soft gentle music) We literally made a rocket ship. I mean, fundamentally, this is how rockets propel themselves. And the actual failure mode wasn't really a floor strength issue, as much as it was a stiffness issue. I knew our structure weighed over a ton, so I just didn't consider could lift the whole thing five And in NASA, that's what we refer to as a critical oversight. But honestly, this result Plus, it leaves room for improvement, and I should also note, we still crushed the previous world record by more than double. And so as the sun went down, Science Bob lit up the fire tornado as a fitting end to the party. I also told Fletcher which is that with a he could use some heavy equipment to destroy our beautiful creation. And so with that, the party was all over. That was epic. I'll never forget this. - [Mom] Thank you. Thank you, Mark. - [Mark] As they drove away, they'd been through for the past year, and all the people that came together from all across the country to for a kid they've never even met. And I might not vote the but for like five inspiring days, none of that stuff mattered. Whenever I find myself short on hope, I find it helps to put my phone down and choose to see the good and be one of the good parts And so to Fletcher, thank you of holding onto hope amidst Happy birthday, buddy, and congrats on your new world record.