daughter daughter daughter Laobangzi court death daughter daughter daughter daughter What are you looking at? Take it away. If you want to leave, let me go Murder, Scar Si Er murdered Scar Si Er killed someone Scar Si Er killed someone Don't let him go You want to die, right? The old lady is so pitiful You are also capable of being ruthless. What do you want to do? you I really gave you face. Good, well played. Good, good, well played, good Fourth brother, are you okay? Good, good fight, bro. Well played, good Fourth brother, fourth brother Fourth brother, are you okay? Let's go together OK, OK, OK hurry up Focus on The ungrateful wolf is coming A white-eyed wolf Hide to the side It seems that you are tired of living. Looking for death Go to hell Go to hell What to do, he even got a gun OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK Come, use it for a while and I'll return it to you later What are you doing with my stick? Brother, take the baton Brother hit me hard Hit, hit, hit hard Hit, hit, hit hard Hit, hit, hit hard Hit, hit hard, hit hard Hit, hit hard, hit Murder, murder Murder, run! master Murder, murder in Ning'an Village Master, Master Master, Master Murder, murder in Ning'an Village Report to the police Report to the police Killing people, run, run elder brother Master, master, master, murder! Closing the stall Go separately, okay daughter Master, Master, Master Wake up, master, master, master master gun master Large stopper master Where are the people? Run away, sir. Chase master stop Give me a pair of eyes, I can see everything. Liang Yongsheng I'll let you live a little longer. Gone yes Standing Holding Master, this is not the way back to Longtan Street What are you doing? Huangjia Town The fair has ended long ago, what are you doing? I'm looking for Huang Shanyou Borrowing a gun What are you doing? I have a grudge against Liang Yongsheng. Isn't it Ning'an Village? Aren't they just those troublemakers? I don't believe that everyone has nine lives. master master What to do Master, let's really go to Ning'an Village Master, we'll wait outside Ning'an Village. We are not afraid that this bastard will not come out. As soon as he comes out Old trick, one shot and he'll die. We can't afford it Stir up the hornet's nest in Ning'an Village It's not difficult to kill Liang Yongsheng Fourth, you know I am a person who cares about face. Available on the big market Liang Yongsheng made me look so ashamed I killed him quietly. Where do I put my face? you No one dares to challenge me Too arrogant What do you do? Aren't you here to compete? Contest What to do Come Together OK Let's go together Who are you? It's none of your business. Do you want to fight or not? If you don't beat me, get out of here court death OK, OK, OK elder brother Good job well OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK Good, well played. Good, good job Well done, well done, very good Well done, well done, well done. OK, OK, OK well Liang Yongsheng You come up This is my apprentice. The famous tiger knife Liang Yongsheng Let him fight for me It was you who injured Hirako Jiro yesterday. I don't know his name. Anyway, knock down one That's you Let's get started Xinyou Sword Manual All started with dealing with Japanese swords You just need to make good use of changes Can handle all knife skills Cut through the wind blade head on Swing your hands horizontally to block the waist The wind sweeps away the autumn leaves Sweep away the enemy Step forward and tease like thunder The beam width is raised and cut obliquely Left and right protection by cache Moving Shape Stab Knife Chinese swordsmanship is extensive and profound, with endless variations No need to stick to a fixed format You must integrate and master it in order to continuously improve OK, OK, OK Master OK, OK, OK Well played Well fought, well fought, well lived forever OK, OK, OK Well, well played, well played Are you okay? Be willing to accept defeat Please Mr. Liang keep the sword manual for me temporarily Please Mr. Liang keep the sword manual for me temporarily But the Shin-Akechi-ryu swordplay Only belongs to the Shin-Akechi school One month later I will come to you to get back what belongs to us Before you come Practice your sword skills. I will But please don't be too proud You are holding a Miao Dao. But he used the sword technique of Pudao What do you care about my knife skills? I'll beat you, that's all. This is against the rules of martial arts. Chinese martial arts Never stick to fixed moves Only by integrating To keep improving Ming Zi? Wang Suozhu from Wuqiao, Hebei I came here specially to ask Mr. Liang for advice. Brother, please show mercy Offended Get out of the way OK, OK, OK He didn't use his full strength It's really good Those who dare to use a dagger must be faster than ordinary people You can only take advantage if you are faster than him Good, bro. I declare below The second match was won by Tiger Knife Liang Yongsheng Fighting the Silver Gun Bully Be careful, bro. Come on, bro. For guns, loosen first and then tighten. The knife seems slow when it comes out The last inch suddenly exerts force OK, OK, OK Good good good This Miao Dao is really fast. OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK Well played, well played, well played, well played I declare below The third game will start soon The Tiger Blade Liang Yongsheng vs. the Wind Chasing Blade Guan Chong Good good good Liang Yongsheng, come on Look how I messed with you today. good I want to see how you kill me. Make a move good Oh no, immortality It's consumed faster than I expected. Is this also for me to see? well The only difficulty is your physical strength If he comes first You should be able to defeat him within thirty moves. If he comes last, there will be some trouble. Any good intention may eventually Gave his life You are only more ruthless than your opponent To seek life OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK , good, good, good, good Liang Yongsheng, it's really not easy It's not easy Fellow villagers Dear old and young men, dear fellow countrymen After three rounds of intense competition Our Ningjin National Hero With his superb swordsmanship Defended the title of the world's best sword I declare below The champion of this competition It is the best sword in the world in Ningjin Liang Yongsheng Liang Yongsheng, I have been waiting for you for a long time fine He just wants to compete with me Nakata I still can't compare with you today I just got out of the city. Something happened, I lost a brother Some other time sorry If you don't fight me I can't let you and your people pass through here. Please forgive me Nakata, you are taking advantage of the situation. I just want to fight with you. If I lose, I can let them go. If I win, give me back my sword manual. Also, give me your Xinyou Sword Manual. You kid He also negotiated terms with me. Yongsheng, I shot him dead Do you have to compete today? Nakata, Ishiguro is coming after us soon. We don't have time. OK Come on, hurry up. Shoot Xie Ito Jun Liang Yongsheng I guess you can't bring a long knife today To be fair, I'll give you my knife. Our Japanese sword is very similar to the Chinese Miao Dao It shouldn't be difficult for you to use Come Your Japanese sword It's different from my knife. I still can't get used to it You don't need a knife How can you compare with me? You can't fight without a knife? It's just a gesture, what's the difference? Come on, there's not much time left. OK You don't need a knife I don't use a knife. Let's have a try Kung Fu The Eighth Route Army made a feint to the east and attacked in the west Liang Yongsheng went to Ximen Full pursuit yes Running forward Yes, yes, yes OK, your kung fu has improved. Thanks There is a Chinese saying that failure is the mother of success. I practiced hard Just to defeat you in samurai style You Japanese Kung Fu I learned all of this from China. You can't succeed We, the Yamato people, are a nation that is good at learning. We learn everything. Our ability to comprehend is unmatched bring it on Brother Qin This Yongsheng brother is having a hard time fighting. I saw it too. Now How do we do it? If you keep fighting like this Yongsheng will definitely lose within ten moves. Don't use the gun Yongsheng will be angry Grenade stop Don't Shoot He just wanted to compete with me. No other ideas He almost killed you just now How many times have you two compared back and forth? Better to shoot him. To avoid trouble later Didn't I tell you? We can solve our own problems. Just leave it alone Let him go, let's go withdraw Walk Quick, quick, quick Nakata | Today's competition You really have the upper hand. But we haven't finished the competition yet, we'll continue it another day. I don't have your sword manual with me. I'll find a way to send it to you some other day. See you later It's not Yu Ru, how do you pronounce those words? Defeat Tiger Blade and step on Liang Yongsheng I'm not afraid of the wind blowing my tongue off. that is Don't you see what kind of place Ning'an Village is? I did him Big Tiger, you go, you go Look at your bear look You are a woman wearing a skirt. Bastard Call Liang Yongsheng out I still need my brother to deal with you Who are you? I am Yang Dahu, the bone-chopping expert You look down on me Watchful waiting Big Tiger Tiger, come back! Tiger, come back! You come back What are you doing? Are you embarrassed? never mind Ring the bell now Look at these people are about to cause trouble Why are you knocking? They don't steal, rob or hurt anyone. That's right, this is called setting up a challenge. Volunteer to take the stage, casualties are at your own risk You deserve it if you can't beat him Call out your experts. I am an expert. What kind of expert are you? No, Yu Ru, what kind of expert am I? I don't know anything Who are you Troublemaker Huang Erleng, the troublemaker in Ning'an Village Let your experts call out. Look how I ruined you. Ear clipping Chop left and right I cut, cut my ears, cut my ears, cut my ears cut I cut, block left, block right I cut Mr. Men, it's just ahead. Cut your ears Erleng Erleng It's really embarrassing. Who is it? Who is it? You finally showed up, Liang Yongsheng I just want to ask you one question Is the sword manual in your hands? Here I am, what's wrong? Very good, then we will keep the bet as usual. If I beat you Return the Shinamichi-ryu sword manual to me Please give me your sword manual as well. You have to have this ability If I dare to come, I will dare to win you Let's start, wait I have something to ask you first. Speaking You are from Qingdao this time. yes My uncle Wang Shenghe And my senior brother Jia Furen and others What happened next? Nakata What can you Japanese do? You should know best Others, I don't know Mr. Wang It's broken Then this person You killed him. As far as I know, Major Ishiguro did this on the orders of the military. Not related to me I, Shinpachi Nakata, am just a swordsman. I don't care about their military affairs. good It's time to start Brother Yongsheng, be careful not good What's up, Dad? Your brother has a hard time catching the knife. Either Shinhachi Nakata Great progress in skills Either your brother is exhausted from the journey. Bro, be careful Bro, are you okay? good good Beware of the backhand Come