Rhonda: About 70 percent of the U.S. population has inadequate vitamin D. There have been many different meta analyses. You know, over the decades, you know, dating vitamin D levels and all cause mortality. And it's, it's, you know, pretty clear with a lower all cause mortality. What are the low hanging fruits that reduce your risk of age related disease? I'm Rhonda Patrick, and that's Originally recorded for the Institute outlines a series of fundamental tactics These straightforward strategies nearly every tissue in the body. Enjoy this podcast episode previously Medicine's podcast, Pathways to Wellbeing. Welcome to the show, Dr. Patrick. Well, thank you so much. I'm excited to be here today and discuss you just, uh, basically mentioned. Kalea: Well, I think this is really so we'll just get right into it. And I thought it would be great for us to overview of how lifestyle changes can impact powerful that even bite sized, approachable our health span and our well-being and even So let's just dive right in. And in general, will you tell us some of your Rhonda: tips? Well, I think there's you know, it's so things that people there's not a lot of applying in their in their daily lives. And I think when it comes to some of the comes down to, unfortunately, taking a pill. And so I know you might be Well, you know, I the micronutrient spread problem in the United States Where, you know, there's about 30 to 40 amino acids that we have to get from our diet. And if we don't get them from our diet, And these essential micronutrients are doing our metabolism to making sure our enzymes, are basically doing all the work responsible immune function, to neurotransmitter function. So basically everything they require, these, And it's definitely, I think, safe to say that. Diet food first approach and getting foods, eating diverse foods is paramount. However, many people, it's for They're busy or they have a habit dysregulation, perhaps in satiety mechanisms. And, you know, so getting getting the important ones from a supplement. And these are these are easy ones. Vitamin D, vitamin D is an easy one. You know, that's something that we And about 70% of the US population And that's kind of defined as less If you're in the United States, if to multiply that by two point five. But 70% of the US population And there have been many different meta dating back all the way to the 1960s, looking And it's it's, you know, pretty clear that lower all cause mortality, all cause mortality. Other words, people are less likely to whether that's cardiovascular disease. Although I would say cardiovascular disease is Cancer mortality is down. Respiratory disease is down. Those are two of the really big to lowering all cause mortality. But so taking a vitamin D supplement Why is widespread deficiency, Well, because we're inside in our cubicles, technological advances, computers, everything. We don't spend as much time outside, you the sort of outdoors kind of jobs that, So so people are not making And on top of that, there are very there actually regulate whether or not we And that, you know, from everything from age. So a 70 year old person makes 20, made as their 20 year old self. So it's very inefficient as So melanin, that pigment that basically acts filter for UVB radiation, which is actually skin to start vitamin D3 synthesis in the skin. So because melanin is, you Sunscreen also does that. People wear a lot of sunscreen nowadays. So there's there's many different much vitamin D in our modern day world. And vitamin D is one of the cheapest There have been studies that have can you take a person who is deficient? So deficiency would be 20 And when you start to get less than 20 you start to run the risk of, you know, bone problems, immune dysfunction, for example. People that are deficient and supplement their self up to a sufficient level per mil, perhaps even closer to 40. And 4000 IUs per day is actually the Institute of Medicine for vitamin D3. And I just want to mention, you vitamins because it's actually it So vitamin D3 goes to the to the liver. It's converted to a another metabolite That's the major circulating That's usually measured And then it goes to the kidneys where it's That's 125 hydroxy vitamin D. And what I mean by a steroid hormone, testosterone, those are steroid hormones. Like imagine if 70% of the you know, of testosterone, like they would be terrible. So, you know, vitamin D is is is basically what's called the cell the nucleus of a cell. And that is where all your DNA is. And it can basically recognize And it it's it basically, you And, you know, it binds to your DNA turns other genes off and deactivates And these are genes that are important So serotonin is one. It's important for the synthesis of And it's it's why vitamin D plays prevent respiratory diseases. And so low hanging fruit And another one that's pretty, I at least, for example, is magnesium. And magnesium is an About 50% of the US population does not And the RDA for adequate intake was it's a little different for males 400 milligrams per day for an adult. And if you are a physically active adult, you are, you know, maybe using the sauna, And so physically active adults 10 to 20% more than the RDA. So you can imagine if people are already active people are even, you know, in And magnesium is an essential cofactor. It's a mineral that is important different enzymes in our body. Everything from enzymes that are So DNA damage is something It's happening right now as It's not something that you can look insidious in respect with respect to of damage that accumulates over time. And as we age, it can lead It can lead to potentially what are called So repair enzymes do not work Also, DNA synthesis. So we're making new cells. We're making new blood cells. We're making new immune cells. We're making new skin cells. Every time we make a new cell, we have to And that requires enzymes You basically need magnesium So again, it's a very important process making sure it doesn't get mutations And it's probably why there's a these are observational studies. Of course, all the caveats that come potentially other confounding factors. But with that in mind, people with 40% lower all-cause mortality and a people with the lowest magnesium levels. There's another study that I think So for every 100 milligram decrease increase in pancreatic cancer incidence. So again, you know, sort of highlighting the with our DNA and, you know, with respect the genomic stability of our DNA is good. And that's very important for preventing It's something that you want to try Of course, there are things However, there are things And I think, you know, an So why is widespread deficiency common? Magnesium is found at the center Chlorophyll is the molecule that So magnesium is high in dark leafy greens. Most people are not eating multiple It's also pretty high in legumes. Almonds are another great source of magnesium. Oats are a great source of magnesium. So the bottom line is people aren't Supplemental magnesium is another possibility. But, you know, the the dose of that is needs to can cause adverse effects like GI problems. So what I like to do is try to get Like this morning, I had a I had some chard in it. I had frozen a couple of frozen So I was getting a magnesium Right. So, you know, having trying to find any greens or almonds, you know, oats are But I also do a supplement of and I do magnesium glycinate. Most of the magnesium I would say the one that's not very But, you know, magnesium glycinate has very good bioavailability. So does magnesium malate or magnesium citrate. So with respect to supplementation with get you up to more of an RDA adequate level. Also, when I sauna, when I'm physically And that's another. So you can have an electrolyte drink and magnesium potassium, for example. So that's also another option So that would be another example. Low hanging fruit, you know, with respect to. Important micronutrients, there's another I probably will speak a lot about that. So maybe I'll I'll skip Maybe we can go into into depth about those. But exercise is probably the biggest and most I think being physically active, very clear, aging, for staving off dementia, for staving disease, all the age related diseases. You know, it does require And I would love to dive But I do feel like I need to give already kind of gone on for a while. I would like to dive into the Omega three If you have any questions that you Kalea: Yeah, that's awesome. I just so appreciate you centering this so accessible, really approachable. And this is one of the ways that we can our micronutrient status because of cause mortality that you talked about. Chronic infection, So I think that that's a super important of personalized functional nutrition. Will you talk to us a little bit? And this will probably lead into But first, I'm hoping we can take some relationship and talk about how that Rhonda: individual. Yeah, I think the you know, so all have differences in our genes. And, you know, they're they're oftentimes nucleotide, you know, a nucleotide And it's often referred to as a So a snip, we call it for short. But it's kind of what's, you know, people have brown eyes or blue But in addition to those phenotypes variety of snips in genes that are like magnesium, vitamin D, omega three. But, you know, in addition to So people are very different in I think we in general, when I say we, infancy and understanding the interaction And, you know, so there are things that more, I think, certain snips we know But it's hard. You know, again, we're really at the It's a very complex interaction. But generally speaking, because I mentioned is there's a variety of very common snips three into the twenty five hydroxy vitamin twenty five hydroxy vitamin D into the. steroid hormone very well. And I've actually seen blood work data supplement with a much, much higher dose. So I mentioned 4,000 IUs being the tolerable the Institute of Medicine set, well, I've 20,000 to 30,000 IUs a day to even just get a blood concentration of 25-hydroxyvitamin that makes them so inefficient at doing that. In fact, there's been what are called And these are studies where people, where genetic are typically involved in nutrition. They're involved in the metabolism of some, in some kind of environmental factor. And what scientists do is they say, We know some of these people are low in vitamin outside and physically active or not because and supplementing, but it's their genes. And so it's kind of a way of randomizing random and just based on their genes, right? So these Mendelian randomization genetically low vitamin D levels, you They're like, you know, 25, they've got like a So it's really kind of, I would say supporting showing that when you actually measure of their genetics, you see the same thing. So it's, again, the genetics, the interaction But really I think the important thing Like unless you go and measure your vitamin D or if you're deficient or insufficient you are. You're not going to know how well a Like, is it even doing anything? So measuring vitamin D levels And the same goes for omega-3, you know, think one of the most important, you know, and under, it's understudied and people Vitamin D has been getting on the radar. So omega-3, there's three There's the type that you So that's alpha linoleic acid, ALA. And then there's the EPA, And then DHA, which is docahexanoic acid. And those are the two marine sources you can find them in microalgae, There was a study that came out of Harvard, marine sources of omega-3 as basically one In other words, people are not And because of that, it was calculated that deaths per year were attributed to not And this was really comparable to Everybody knows trans fats are bad. You walk into any grocery store, packaging thing you can see. It's very much in the public Well, trans fats were responsible for the same They were responsible for Before I kind of go deeper into but that makes you think about it. It's like, oh, wow. So the same number of deaths were eating enough EPA and DHA from marine And it kind of really makes you don't walk into a supermarket and This isn't getting your EPA and DHA, everything tells you about trans fats. And it was, you know, just as important fatty acids from marine sources. Now I say marine sources because ALA, which is like flax seeds, walnuts, for example, that is because we can convert ALA into EPA and DHA. And so, you know, all the government and, you know, all those standards that are because we can make EPA and DHA from ALA, The problem with that is that the conversion of very inefficient and there's widespread genetic So, some people are great, they gene that does the conversion of ALA I would say the majority of people have And to kind of add fuel to the fire, having acids, I don't want to demonize them so linoleic acid, you need arachnidonic acid. It's part of your cell membrane, Getting them from whole food But the vegetable oils are very, very if you eat out, if you buy processed processed with vegetable oils. That omega-6, when it's too high, required to convert ALA into EPA. And so, you may be getting enough ALA. By the way, that's the other problem. People aren't even eating flaxseed and So, there's so many layers to But that conversion is very inefficient And on top of that, you know, I would say does dramatically increase that conversion. It makes it, well, I mean, And so, this is probably because DHA And when a woman becomes I mean, it's like 100 times It's pretty apparent that nature has that ALA as possible into EPA and DHA. Anyway, so that's where the genetics comes in. You know, there's definitely But on top of that, I think the best way, eating, you know, a dietary source and So, the omega-3 index is measuring DHA, and there's other fatty acids as And it's really important because most blood the plasma phospholipids are But you're really looking more at or two versus red blood cells, which It's a long-term status of your omega-3, kind fasting blood glucose and your HbA1c, right? Like fasting blood, you could have had, you day and your fasting blood glucose looks great, like blood glucose levels always look like? Might not be, right? So, long-term status, omega-3 of studies from Bill Harris. Bill Harris, he's the co-inventor I had him on my podcast about a year ago. I've actually joined the Fatty Acid institute studying a variety of the I've joined as an associate studies on omega-3 and brain health. But Bill has published a variety of studies mortality, cardiovascular-related mortality. So, I would say when you get the omega-3 States have an omega-3 index of less than 5%. And what Bill has shown from multiple omega-3 index of 8% have a five-year those that have an omega-3 index of 4%. So, 4% versus 8%. There's also evidence that it's related to But also a very interesting piece of data And everybody knows smoking What can you do to accelerate the Smoking cigarettes, tobacco, it's terrible. And this was so interesting. The omega-3 in smokers that had a high but they were also eating a lot of They had an 8% omega-3 index. They had the same life expectancy as In other words, smoking was I was just like... I was blown away by that. Like, there's a beautiful graph in the paper, It was a couple of years ago, but I So omega-3 is... There's so many different roles It accumulates in cell membranes, plays and receptors function, because all those And so, for example, glucose transporters They're not functioning well when less glucose to get into the brain. That obviously leads to many problems. It's also the metabolites of EPA and DHA They're specialized pro-resolving molecules. And so they resolve inflammation in These are the mericins, the These are playing a very I think there has been now enough evidence that is a driver of the aging process itself. In other words, not just driving, disease and dementia and cancer, which And so it's affecting all those things. And inflammation is a term that's used, the immune system is accelerating the aging There's neuroinflammation, and there's been look at all these physiological processes is one, protein misfolding is another, The only thing that was really just aging itself was the inflammation. That was the most important thing the brain and also aging in the body. So having omega-3 is, I think, one of to improve their inflammatory process, of their transporters and receptors. And I know you're going to ask me I'll give you a preview of that. I'm also excited about a new role sensitizing amino acids in skeletal muscle. So there's been some work from Chris McGlory, He's actually shown that omega-3 is playing mechanism where it's not inflammatory. It's not the anti-inflammatory It's actually doing something anabolic. It's somehow affecting muscle protein sensitizing muscle to amino acids through some So I think I'm pretty excited Muscle mass obviously is an But I do think that... So when it comes to omega-3, what do you do? I mean, obviously, if you can eat fatty mackerel, sardines, these are all pretty low in contaminants like mercury, PCBs. By the way, there have been now studies though fish have these contaminants, against them, and even during pregnancy. So there was this big push decades eating fish because of the mercury. I think that was a huge mistake, huge study looking at omega-3 index in cord But there's been a couple of studies. One, I think big one was in 2015, American basically the omega-3 fatty acids, women protected against any neurotoxicity. And in fact, those children had better There's also been studies looking at omega-3 So fish intake during pregnancy and life, I forgot all the follow-up times, but improved intelligence if the mothers were mercury as a biomarker to basically validate were taking in more omega-3 had higher mercury. And guess what? The higher mercury was correlated with not because mercury is improving And the omega-3, the mercury doesn't even It's really protecting against any So I know that was a bit of a tangent. It's important because people are kind some fish that you should be scared of, in mercury and not so high in omega-3. But things like salmon, wild-caught Also supplementing is, I think, So looking at the 4% omega-3 index, comparing increased life expectancy, I think that there's a day supplemental omega-3 can bring people Now keep in mind, you know, the FDA, of either Levesa or Vasepa, which is So, you know, this is a... Omega-3, the way I like to think of it is it's is pharmacologically active and, you know, and Something like 80% globally do not get enough do not get enough. So very important in respect to the important for cardiovascular health. I think it's important for brain from infancy to old age, important. So that's sort of my spiel on omega-3. I think it's a very low-hanging fruit and Well, thank you for Kalea: doing some nutritional myth-busting. I think you've made a compelling case vitamin D status and our omega index. I think our audience will not supplement piece for just a minute. I saw a debate raging on a functional or not omega supplements are contaminated degree that the whole fish would be. And if we need to be concerned supplements, I would just love to Rhonda: hear your perspective. Yeah. My perspective, again, is it's And I think there's a few One, I think triglyceride form. Yeah, Levasa and Vesipa Ethyl ester is not incorporated into It's not as bioavailable. It absolutely has to be taken with But some people, if their doctor take it, and compliance is an issue. So triglyceride form is more bioavailable. It does incorporate into And I think that's important. Two, I think oxidation status. So fish oil is a polyunsaturated fatty There are isolation protocols that can be doing it under liquid nitrogen, for example. And there are third-party testing sites that also test PCBs, mercury, and everything. I think the best one that I use is called It's IFOS. And there's a ton of different brands on there. If you go to their products sheet, you can batch numbers for all the different types And then you can then look at the raw data. You can look at their oxidation status. You can look at how high the mercury I would say the most important thing is form, and then perhaps the oxidation status. I think because most of these fish oil through a column, they are purifying that it's not as big of an issue. The most important thing, though, against the potential negative effects. In the developing fetus, where they're so to the mercury, the PCBs, and everything, And that's the study I like to about, but what about the toxins? But what about the toxins? It's like, here's the thing. Focus on what we need to be getting. If you focus on the toxins, the toxins, you're not going to be getting enough of it. And I think that is way more detrimental that are going to hitchhike in, because the and that's kind of one of the major things To me, it's kind of like a levels getting so much more of that other thing negative effects of the PCBs and mercury. So IFOS, good source. Labdor is another one. They kind of have a different - they rank sold out of the most top-ranked supplement. But you can go on IFOS and find tons of So like Canada, if you live in found in Canada or Europe or U.S. And so I think that go out there and find It's got a high level of EPA and DHA. It's got low oxidation, perhaps lower Very Kalea: practical advice to I think with your insights and the resources what micronutrients we should focus on, so I know you're interested in Before we do that, in your work, you explore that might include exercise or fasting it would be a good time to introduce this could give us a little bit of a primer. What are we talking about Rhonda: Yeah, it's a term, I think some of the plant phytochemicals. Boy, I forgot the author of the book, level of something that at a very, very, to necessarily say toxic, but toxic. It could be bad for you. You're exposing yourself Everyone knows exercise is very beneficial, but a day and keep doing that, you would collapse. It would be bad, right? Exposing yourself to a little bit of stress, bodies that are activated in response to They're genes involved in inflammation, They're genes that are involved in clearing They're genes in repairing DNA, The activation of these genes outshines sort of apply to activate them, and Throughout our human evolution, I guess, types of stress, whether it is periods have Instacart and couldn't just order We had to go out and hunt it and find it, things, and so food scarcity, there were We were not getting food, and that activates A lot of times, these are called stress which are clearing out a lot of damaged they're very robustly activated by fasting, like heat stress, so that's one form. Then there's the physical activity that be a lot more physically active when that and gather, and we worked in the field, stuff that we were doing by moving around. That is another form of intermittent stress. Lots of stress response genes are activated. When you engage in physical activity, you being one of the big ones, but the response so IL-10 gets activated, and it's more and so the net effect is anti-inflammatory that you've generated by exercising. The other example is these plant that are found in a variety of plants, There's the resveratrol is probably the skin of some fruits like grapes one found in the skin of blueberries. There's the turmeric, the curcumin found in that also activate stress response genes. They also activate genes that are active heat stress, like heat shock proteins. A lot of overlap between...the a whole host of these things. Some of these stress response genes are so like thermal stress more robustly some broccoli does, but sulforaphane Sulforaphane's found in broccoli sprouts, them, The bottom line is that our genes types of stress, and we've lost that. We've lost that ability to push them. I mean, not the ability, but we've stopped detrimental effect on the way that we're aging, as well, because you want to clean up stuff. You want to keep pushing the antioxidant, the aggregation, the repairing the damaged DNA. That stuff is important because all from normal metabolism, normal immune and ionizing radiation, and then you add pollution, chemicals we're exposed to. It's compounding, and we have to turn those better, but to just even age normally. So it's very important to engage in whether that's exercising, cardiovascular hot tubs in the sauna, not eating around also eating phytochemicals from plants. I think these are all very important. Well, I think, Kalea: as you said, we all know exercise aging and longevity, are there types I heard you mention resistance resistance training and high-intensity Where should we focus our efforts? Rhonda: It's a good question. And I think that with respect to people, Whatever it is they're going to do and do it is in my opinion, the most important thing. So not concerning yourself so much with, oh, to be doing high-intensity interval training. What you need to do is do That's the most important thing. But let's say you want to step up a level I absolutely love the way I feel after I things and trying to do everything I can to and for my muscle and for my heart that I can. So I'll say this, there's been these the Vigorous Intensity Lifestyle And there's these large studies where people of smart Fitbit or fill-in-the-blank type And it's been shown from these this is basically not just walking. This is like you're going to more of a maximal like maybe 80% estimated max heart rate. And doing something for anywhere like one So this is like the This is like, okay, I'm at my desk, I'm get up and I'm going to do one minute of going to go sprint down the street and Anything that is so short, but back into whatever you're doing. So it's not so disruptive. You don't have to have a gym membership. You don't have to go and get in You don't have to think about it You just do it. You just get up from your desk and you do it. So this is one minute to three Have shown that people that do this, data, empirical data, have anywhere mortality and cancer-related mortality. And to me, I find that very exciting I think it's so doable for people and creating within maybe families or wherever you spend I think that this is something that just by our environment that we're And it's going to be so And not only that, you feel And so the vigorous intensity is Some people like to go for long runs. They like to go for long bike rides. They're more of that moderate And that's great too. If that's what you're doing and that's what showing that being physically active, and you're engaging in 150 minutes of that week, that you're doing really good, right? So it's not that you have to go and do the there are added benefits on top of that. And those largely have to do with When you're going, when you start to reach estimated maximum heart rate and you start the oxygen that you breathe in quick enough. And so your mitochondria, which are the major of your cells, they require oxygen to make So you can't get that oxygen quick And so you're forced to make energy you make it by using up glucose. And so the glucose then gets And lactate is not a waste metabolite like It's just waste metabolite. It's not only a waste metabolite, it it was thought to be causing muscle Not true. Nonsense. Not true. So lactate actually is a signaling molecule. It has been shown to activate brain-derived It activates it. It also gets into other tissues, including And it's used for neurotransmitter lactate, serotonin, dopamine. It's used for energy instead of neurons. It's a very efficient source of energy. So lactate can be used to make energy. It's converted inside the And this is in the brain. This is in other tissues as well, like the gut. Lactate's really important for the gut. So I think that there's a role of or vigorous types of exercise. I say high-intensity interval training activity up for more than an interval. I mean, you're pushing it all the So I do think the vigorous type in, I think, brain health as well. But also I think cancer I mean, aerobic exercise is very And specifically, I think that there's some exercise actually also seems to be important. So there's a circulating tumor cell. So these circulating tumor cells most of the So they basically have And so at that point, the goal is, cancer and prevent metastasis, right? We don't want the cancer to spread. Well, these circulating tumor cells They get into circulation and then they go So the metastasis process. Well, exercise itself, there's The sheer force of blood flow going kills these circulating tumor cells. And it does it because these tumor cells have And they're so sensitive to movement. It's almost like a hurricane. It's like a hurricane just coming And so there's been studies showing that the colon cancer or breast cancer, when they they are circulating tumor cells drop down. They're less likely to have cancer recurrence, You're talking like 40% and they're So cancer prevention, but also and cancer mortality for people that I think that the big thing here, there's been a I think you should probably just do what Probably good to do both. I do a lot of Tabatas. And so I go between my all-outs and also two when I'm sort of tapering it down and And I do that 10 or 15 minutes And then I also like to do resistance training. And that's another muscle mass and Building up that muscle reserve earlier in life I think it was Brad Schoenfeld. He's an exercise physiologist that an expert in resistance training. And he gave this analogy that I love that You contribute to your 401k, you contribute so so that you can retire and live off of it. Well, muscle mass and even bone mass too, best ways to build bone density as well. You got to build it up. And once you start to reach a certain age, although you can still gain strength. And so you have a harder time gaining And so it's kind of like the more you start So I think resistance training is And it's something I've always been a aerobic I haven't been doing as many long runs and I think once I became a mother, a working challenging for me certainly to go to the gym. Like that's way in my past, But like even going for longer I don't do it as frequently. Like it's more like, you know, an occasional Now I find that it works with my schedule. Every morning I get on my Peloton bike, And it's just a habit and I do it every day. And I feel amazing after, I feel sharp, neurotransmitter synthesis and stuff. And so, you know, it's the So, you know, all those things are important. And I think that you have to find your daily routine and that you will do. And you know, you want You want to sweat. You want to be tired. Like you want to feel tired afterwards. And I think exercise, whatever way you your heart rate up and you are flush in you're working out, you can't talk, right? To some degree. I think that's good. And there's been studies that exercise can forgive a lot of sins. And I'll say this, you know, I, during when son was a newborn and all the way up and just so much disruption to my sleep that, I mean, like we all know how important for blood pressure, everything, right? But when you're a young, I can only being a father, but I think the father's Mothers though have to, they're breastfeeding. There's no, there's, you There's nothing you can do. In a way, if you think about it can be very discouraging. You're like, I am, I'm doing terrible things to Well, I, I was wearing a continuous blood glucose, my fasting blood glucose And it was crazy. You know, I was eating the same diet and doing a lot of spin classes back then. And it wasn't until I got like on, on the intensity interval training that all of a levels, even with the interrupted sleep. And then I went into the literature and intensity interval training can basically deprivation on blood glucose regulation. And, you know, so clearly I had anecdotal evidence as well. But there's also was a pretty recent study There's lots of those out there. You'll find, of course, people with, know, much, much shorter sleep durations However, this, this recent study also looked because sleep, you know, quality and quantity, associated with higher all cause mortality, but In other words, physical activity forgave I think that if there's a message thing that you can do in your life is Like there's nothing that is No aging drug, nothing. Nothing's going to be better than, than And I think that's, that is, is the, need to be like, if you care about aging, there was a study showing that people less likely to have collagen breakdown. I mean, it was just amazing. Everything, brain health, cardiovascular the most powerful, I would say, longevity Kalea: Rhonda, I so admire your passion for made me feel so excited to see you present I wanted to thank you so much for combined with the research briefs. We can't wait to see more. And we really look forward to seeing you in Rhonda: Orlando in June. I look forward to it as well. It's going to be a fun time.