An Epic History TV / HistoryMarche collaboration, In December 1804, in the Cathedral of Notre-Dame Emperor of the French. Europe had never seen such a sudden and dramatic nobility, to military dictator of France, Revolution and war had cleared Napoleon's War would dominate his ten-year reign: a conflict millions dead, and a continent in turmoil. Eight months after Napoleon's coronation. The French Empire, and its Spanish ally were an army of 180,000 men along the Channel coast. But as long as the British Royal Navy ruled But nor could Britain challenge France on And so British Prime Minister William Pitt Napoleon, using diplomacy and gold. Britain would prove Napoleon's most steadfast mockery of the French emperor. Britain and France were old rivals, in Europe But now Pitt feared Napoleon's conquests Emperor had to be defeated, and Europe's was ever to be lasting peace. Pitt found willing allies in Europe: among of the French Revolution, and a dangerous Austria harboured the deepest grievances, steadily eroded by French victories. The final straw came in May 1804, when Napoleon Milan. Austria, Russia, Sweden, and Naples joined Coalition... And devised an ambitious plan for a series The main attack would be made by a combined Rhine into France. But Napoleon got word of their plans, and He was determined to strike first, before his army, now renamed 'La Grande Armee', His target was the Austrian army of General Bavaria, a French ally, and was now dangerously Napoleon ordered Marshal Murat, his famously attacks through the Black Forest - while enveloped Mack's army from the north. That summer, Napoleon's Grande Armee was motivated - its regiments at full strength. What's more, it had been newly reorganised imitated by virtually every army in the world. Each corps, commanded by a Marshal, was a its own infantry, cavalry, artillery and supporting transport. This meant each corps could march and fight, ... allowing Napoleon to break with the old and advance with his corps widely dispersed... This helped to disguise his real objective, army could advance along multiple roads, and from scattered villages, rather than relying When the enemy's main force was located, This is how Napoleon's army was able to his enemies. Mack didn't realise the danger he was in Napoleon's fast-moving corps crossed the Mack launched a series of poorly co-ordinated fighting, the Austrians couldn't break out Mack hoped that Kutuzov's Russian army could were still 160 miles away. And so at Ulm, on 19th October, just 6 weeks Napoleon. The French took nearly 60,000 Austrian prisoners, blow against the Coalition. Russian General Mikhail Kutuzov was an experienced His army was exhausted after its 900-mile But hearing of the Austrian surrender at Ulm, Napoleon alone, he immediately ordered a retreat. Napoleon pursued. The Russians fought several sharp rearguard capital Vienna, which the French occupied Kutuzov slipped away to Olmutz, in today's as well as Emperor Alexander of Russia, and Napoleon was furious that Kutuzov had escaped. By now his army was also exhausted, and far He needed to force a decisive battle, quickly. Fortunately for him, the overconfident, 27-year-old overriding the concerns of his veteran commander, With the Allied army closing in, Napoleon a battlefield he'd carefully selected... Napoleon oversaw the dispositions of his army sleep beside a camp fire. Dawn would mark the first anniversary of his that would make or break his young empire. The morning of 2nd December 1805 was cold Two armies of near equal size faced each other But the Allies held the high ground of the Marshal Davout, was still marching to the Seeing Napoleon's thinly-stretched right from the Pratzen Heights, to steamroller the Napoleon's army. Little did they know, Napoleon was counting just such a move, whereupon he would launch cut the Allied army in half. His bold plan relied on his correct prediction Davout's III Corps on his right, and a perfectly The battle began around 7am, as Austrian troops with French troops defending the village of In the face of overwhelming odds, the French But gradually, they were forced back. But the Allies, instead of carrying out their The morning mist and the late arrival of orders another hour before the first three Allied Soon fierce fighting erupted around Sokolnitz Marshal Davout's corps, which had just force-marched the French right wing. Around 9am, his lead infantry brigade appeared Before being driven back in turn by Austrian Two more of Davout's brigades reinforced As the mist began to clear, Napoleon saw that off the Pratzen Heights, and he ordered Marshal To the alarm of Allied commanders, two French mist, were suddenly seen advancing straight General Kutuzov was forced to hurriedly organise Column. Two hours of bloody fighting followed. Musket fire was so rapid and furious that turned to the bayonet. By 11am, the French, with the advantage in and driven a deep wedge into the Allied position. To the north, a giant cavalry battle developed... while a Russian force from General Bagration's before it was halted by cannon fire from the A decisive charge by 6 regiments of French allowing Marshal Lannes' V corps to move Now Grand Duke Constantine, commanding the Allied reserve, in a desperate bid to reclaim A battalion of the French 4th Line Regiment losing its Eagle standard in bloody fighting. Napoleon, who'd moved up to the Heights, In this grim melee between the elite horsemen Napoleon had broken the Allied centre. Now to close the trap on the Allied left wing, Around 2pm, Napoleon ordered four divisions General Buxhowden, commanding the Allied Attacked from three sides, the only escape Many of his troops were forced to flee across French artillery opened fire, trying to smash About 200 men and dozens of horses drowned thousands of Napoleon's propaganda. The French Emperor had won a brilliant victory. His army had taken more than 10,000 prisoners, Thousands of dead and wounded of all sides for days. The Battle of the Three Emperors, as it became As Russian forces retreated back to Russia, a humiliating settlement with France, agreeing up more territory in exchange for peace. But meanwhile, news had reached Napoleon of off Cape Trafalgar. British admiral Lord Nelson, at the cost of complete, that it ensured British naval dominance the next 100 years. Britain, master of the sea; Napoleon, unbeatable The whale and the elephant, neither able to When William Pitt received news of Napoleon's have said, 'Roll up that map of Europe, A month later Pitt was dead, but his warning Thanks to fellow YouTube channel HistoryMarche and of course to all our Patreon supporters, Visit the Epic History TV Patreon page to get early access to videos, and vote on future