Married for 4 years You still pamper my brother. Just because he wanted to eat You're allergic and you still make him a cake Sister-in-law, don't be too nice to him. Be careful he doesn't cherish you I won't Same white skirt Lingling looks better in it Perfect match Aunt What do you mean suitable? You and Ayi? Ayi Divorce Cheng Xiao as soon as Lingling comes back You're a fake Mom, is there anyone like you who talks about your sister-in-law behind her back? You just ate the meal he cooked this morning. I only ate two bites to give him face. How rare Don't I have a babysitter? Without him, I would starve to death. Is what Duan Yi's mother said true? ah How could that be? Of course I love you, sister-in-law. Right bro Hey, bring the cake over here. Mimi is hungry Duan Yi What does counterfeit mean? Brother, please speak Today is our wedding anniversary Do you really want your sister-in-law to divorce you? Divorce is good Leave quickly It's as if my son can't live without him. mom Didn't you understand everything? What else do you want me to explain? Pig Pig Pig Pig Where are you? dolphin dolphin dolphin dolphin dolphin here Pig is here round and round After my parents left I only have Tuan Tuan Your face Nothing happened, I was caught by the group This little guy is as naughty as you. With you Send it to my friends With you Cheated you good I see Divorce, divorce. The divorce agreement is on the coffee table in the bedroom. You sign and you can go out. Ah Yi, go and apologize Ms. Chen He took it seriously. It's okay, just let him go elder brother Duan Yi Waiting for my sister-in-law to sign You'll regret it. End Industry What does counterfeit mean? Did you understand everything? What else do you want me to explain? good I see Divorce Wanwan, how do you talk to your brother? I don't have such a heartless dog. Why Ayi, it's all my fault I just came back and I caused you guys to get divorced. I'll go apologize to him. Lingling, you are just too kind. That woman has been sticking to Ayi every day for the past four years Wait a minute. She will come out Crying and begging Ah Yi to withdraw the divorce Ah Yi, I don't want to Become the sinner who destroyed your four-year marriage If Miss Chen really signed You mustn't agree He won't sign. Has he been waiting for this day? My sister-in-law can't be kissed You can't let a woman destroy your family It's easy to do. Wanwan A woman can live without a man. Why don't you get divorced? What did I say? The Duan family has such a large business How could he bear to do that? Miss Chen, your choice is very wise If I were you It's really hard to give up A man as charming as Ayi It is written in the divorce agreement Give me a commercial street worth 100 million I don't see the transfer line You've thought it through I really want a divorce Checks are also acceptable Could you please sign this, Mr. Duan? I signed it How about it Now it's your turn to sign the divorce papers. Completely leave the Duan family Do you dare to leave me? You have no father or mother I have been living on Duan Yi for these years. If you don't dare to sign, don't act like a jerk here We in the Duan family won't tolerate your bad temper. oops Some people lost their wives. Not only insomnia I can't even wear clothes anymore. snort Did he call you at night to ask you to beg for mercy? You got it wrong. Shouldn't you be the one asking for mercy? I I want a divorce Master Breakfast The young master doesn't like it Why no onion smell? You never eat onions. You won't forget it yourself. The noodles used to have onion flavor. Is it difficult to make a bowl of noodles without green onions but with green onion flavor? Young Master, why don't you listen to what you are saying? Don't take your anger out on me if you're getting divorced. I only make 5,000 yuan a month. Who recruited him? So unruly You Only my sister-in-law can tolerate your bad habits. Sister-in-law, if you don't want to eat onions, don't let go of the horse It's so troublesome to be so picky. Your brother likes the taste of onions But I don't eat chopped green onions Bring the noodles down Don't do it anymore. Now you know how good your sister-in-law is, right? snort Isn't it just a bowl of noodles? If she didn't look like Ye Lin Four years ago I wouldn't have even looked at her You scumbag, just keep your mouth shut. When you cry What did I say? After one night, I wanted to get back together Too late You should find a new chief designer. I have already quit your company. explain The president's wife resigned Should we let him go? He has the company's core projects in his hands. Without him, the company might be in trouble. snort Make you proud This time, sister-in-law really wants to say goodbye to you Release As I expected This is when the noise started Resigned to force me to cancel the divorce agreement I suspect your brain was deprived of oxygen when you were born. What do you mean Brain dead! Oh yeah When you go out, don't tell others that I am your sister. I don't want others to think I'm also mentally retarded. Come back to me President Duan Times are different now. You should go out more often to see the world. Do you really think that others can't live without you? cut Without me, he would have lived a miserable life. Let's see He will come back to ask me Miss Chen, this is the 50 million mansion you purchased Please take the keys and property deeds. Thanks My brother is beyond help. But do you really want to quit? The company can't do without you If it weren't for your silent dedication over the past few years Duan's gone bankrupt a long time ago The Duan family has developed steadily I've been around him for the past four years. This time divorced Just change the environment completely Open faster, according to insider information Chen Xiao asked for resignation today I must see him first. yes Do you like it? It's specially customized for you. like Xiao Xiao, you are so beautiful like this I love so much Mrs. Duan, these are our new products this season. It suits your previous taste. Mr. Duan will also like it Miss Chen, you should understand It's not possible to save it by changing into a better white dress Ayi Retrieve Miss Ye, you are joking. What is your intention in buying a skirt? You and I know it well But it's no use. Ayi never liked white dresses. He likes me Miss Ye can see that you love Duan Yi very much But when he was in the most difficult time Where are you? What do you mean? We are all smart people You left when he was down. Back at the peak of his career Use you You and I know it well Few pure and innocent I thought it was green tea Stay away, stay away This kind of person is calculating. Please help me try this one. This is my style The way I should have been Miss Chen, you look charming and elegant Great figure too This skirt must suit you very well The previous style doesn't really suit me. Come on, I'll take you to the fitting room Chen Xiao changed his tactics, right? But Auntie doesn't like flirting at all turn out to be Miss Ye has always been following Mr. Duan's preferences. Role-playing I'm very curious What is your true self like? But Miss Ye, please rest assured I have no interest in throwing away garbage. Just be tough. Are you not interested or you don't have the chance Because she looks a bit like me Only then did I marry you during the window period Otherwise, with your qualifications How can any man like you? Wow, he's so handsome. Where is this celebrity from? Look at the watch on his hand. More than 10 million ah Oh my god, am I an NPC from this world? Since you're coming for me Where have I seen it? Why don't you have any impression? Cheng Xiao Xue Chen Miss Chen is such a beautiful woman There is really no shortage of good men around But he is just a pretty little white face Can it be compared to Duan Yi's worth? Hello Auntie I will go to Huayang to interview a designer in two days. I'm picking out clothes. I don't know what to buy Can you come over and help me? Aunt I will go to Huayao for an interview for a designer position in two days. I'm picking out clothes. I don't know what to buy Can you come over and help me? Do you know him? I've never seen this level. What caught my eye Then I'll go change my clothes first I'll treat you to dinner later. No rush Eat slowly, I'll wait for you. Anyway, I've been waiting for so many years. handsome guy Handsome guy, this is so fragrant Just divorced Be careful Don't be a takeover man Just divorced I didn't know Look I must be hiding it from you. Did he tell you he's not married yet? This lady I know a gastroenterologist. Do you want me to introduce it to you? What's wrong Your mouth stinks you This is Cheng Xiao's ex-husband Meeting is not as good as hearing Aunt Cheng Xiao He brought a pretty boy to bully me Where is Cheng Xiao? Sister Cheng Xiao You look so good in this dress. This is dust Aunt Chen Xiao Because you've tried so hard to please me. I can give you a chance Does it look good? nice Better for you than before If it really doesn't fit, throw it away. Let's go Chen Xiao Don't go You let go Have you signed the divorce agreement? After signing, go to the Civil Affairs Bureau Chen Xiao should be reasonable in his unreasonable behavior You use this pretty boy to piss me off. Well, you achieved your goal. It's meaningless to do it again Stop being narcissistic. We are divorced. Your new girlfriend is watching. Xue Chen, let's go. It turns out that the Heartbeat series of jewelry is your work That's amazing! That's your work too. You said your work lacks something I asked your aunt Zhang's daughter to help you find inspiration dad I don't need You are Uncle Xue Uncle's son? I am Cheng Xiao I feel like your necklace is missing something What is missing If I help you solve it How do you thank me? We spent half a day to calculate the cost of this work. Hey, that's not necessary. Just treat me to a meal. good How about adding this stroke? Isn't it sublimated? Um Then remember to treat me to a meal. What's the name of this work? Heartbeat Xiaoxia Come to Huayao With your ability You are the Chief Designer You, a designer, can't even decide the chief position. You said I was a designer Isn't it ah yes I am just an ordinary designer at Huayao That's why I think you are more talented than me To become the chief of Huayao Cheng Xiao Because you've tried so hard to please me. I can give you a chance Does it look good? elder brother Something bad is happening. What's the matter? My sister-in-law asked for medicine. You are divorced now Can't call me sister-in-law anymore Stop being so weird to me. It is said that my sister-in-law is going to Huayao I heard there was a competition for a chief designer. Just by him Let's talk about it when he is kicked out. I'm in a bad mood Don't bother me. But We had originally discussed cooperation with our company. Several international companies All cooperation was terminated. What Why Because they knew my sister-in-law was leaving the company I'm going to take medicine. Did I not say it clearly enough? Please check again The reason is just Chen Xiao They committed the crime because of him. This is the root cause. Bro, I see you You should deal with your emotional issues first. Anyway, the company won't go bankrupt anytime soon. No rush What's your matter? Aunt I sent you the photo Can you help me find which lipstick color looks better? Just for such a small matter Don't you know I'm working? I also want to pick out a good-looking Is it respectable to go out with you? General Please take a look at the design draft of the Haishang Yueming project No problem, we'll make it. I think they are all good You choose. Okay, I'll decide. Don't you have anything extra to say? So much for official business. As for private matters Didn't we agree not to discuss this at the company? You are back You are back Look at this flower. Is it pretty? Chen Xiao You're going all out this time, right? How dare you mess with me like this? Hum, when can you hold on for a few more days? How come your aunt asked me to come? I was wrong during the day. I cooked You try it After four years abroad, you learned how to cook. yes I specifically found a chef to learn from. Good to make for you not bad Hotel Package Of course it's good Then you eat more Do you have peanuts in your food? peanut Are you allergic to peanuts? Auntie Ye Lin keeps saying she loves you You don't even know you have a severe peanut allergy Shut up You and your sister-in-law have been married for 4 years. You've never had an allergy. This is the truth, right? Even if I haven't had any allergies in these 4 years What does it have to do with her? Love is something that cannot be seen or touched. But the details can betray everything It can also prove everything All your life in these 4 years It's all my sister-in-law who is silently managing behind the scenes. You yellow-haired girl My boyfriend never talked about it Understand what love is Maybe I have a good teacher. Brother, you and sister-in-law just signed a divorce agreement Not yet certified There's still time What is in time? As long as you really ask him He begged him to shut up. Do I need to beg him for help if I commit a crime? I tell you He can't leave me He just wanted my attention. Who doesn't understand? Talking to you is like talking to a cow I tell you You'll know later that I'm right. Come and get your phone Come out and take a photo for me I sent him a message saying I was sick. I'm giving him a step. He came back to see me You have made progress. I'm really looking at your face I don't care Good good good Forget it, as long as you two can get back together Whatever you say Why Wait, what are you doing? What are you doing? My brother is allergic If you have time, why don't you come to the hospital and see how miserable he is? The hospital is really unlucky I came to do a pre-employment physical examination and I bumped into Wanwan, I have more important things to do now. Let me know when he dies. I will definitely go to worship. Reply to the message, right? Wanwan, I have more important things to do now. See? He still wants some face This must be on the way. I don't sound like I'll let him be. He's the one who's anxious, not me. What did I say? So impatient to hear about my condition Okay, I'll give him this chance. But remember, only once Let me know when he dies. I will definitely go to worship. What How dare he curse me like this? Chen Xiao, have I spoiled you too much? Come to me quickly Why am I allergic to this for no reason? It must have been carved by that little bitch Cheng Xiao Not divorced yet I don't know how to serve my son. Aunt And me? You are considerate Cheng Xiao, you still remember to come to the hospital? I'm just passing by That's such a coincidence. I know you can't leave my son. Why don't you hurry to the ward to take care of her? You let go of you open Look, we'll be at the ward in three minutes. Wanwan, I know who he is better than you. Auntie, Duan Yi and I are divorced. I came to the hospital for a pre-employment physical examination. Chen Xiao, you are really rebellious Without my son you are nothing. How dare you talk to me like that? I told my son to get the entire industry to ban you How did she become like this? She was always nervous when I had a fever. Zhang is incredible Are you okay? Where does it hurt? It's nothing, just a minor cold Just two shots, don't worry. How can I not worry? Severe cases may cause pneumonia Even die How can you curse your husband like this? No you know I can't live without you What if we separate someday? No, I won't leave you. You can't leave me either I will die if I leave you My sister-in-law loved you before Now she doesn't love You are the only one living in the dream You mean she's really not coming back? No, absolutely not. Brother, if you really treat your sister-in-law as a substitute Don't bother her anymore. After all, you don't lack people to serve you. Bring me your phone Cheng Xiao, don't say I didn't give you a chance I'm waiting for you at home Except for getting a divorce certificate There's no need for me to meet you. If you don't come, I will throw away all the things. I don't believe he would really be willing to leave me Smile Do you still remember when Tuantuan died? We buried him wholeheartedly. I wish he wasn't dead. We will definitely be as happy as before I didn't come here to listen to you talk about the past. I took Tuan Tuan's things and left. Tomorrow we will go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get a divorce certificate Formal divorce Why don't you want to come back? I lower my posture like this What else do you want? Don't forget that I have been raising you all these years. What qualifications do you have to say that you raised me? Duan Ye I used my design to help you get funding. Comeback You're afraid I'll leave I hid my study abroad notice Blocking my design dream Wrap me around you Just to satisfy you that you can't get the white moonlight And the restless heart You are disgusting You said what you wanted Money and fame Still in the company's position I know you want to open a jewelry design studio Is 50 million enough for you? Duan Yi Do you think I'm with you for money? Otherwise Chen Xiao What are you pretending to be? My patience is limited Stop making trouble. Duan Yi, don't force me to hate you Xue Chenge I'll be out soon. Duan Yi, what are you crazy about? who is he Is that the pretty boy from last time? So you divorced me because of him, right? Xiaoxiao How are you developing now? Did he kiss you? I slept with you You bastard How to sleep with other men Don't let me touch you. I tell you We haven't officially divorced yet. You can't wait Want to climb into another man's bed Xiaoxiao Duan Yi, don't mess around I called the police Chen Xiao, you are so impatient How can this pretty boy compare to me? Are you blind? I am blind I wasted four years for you. Xiaoxiao, go to the car and wait for me first Don't go If you leave, I will burn all the things in Tuantuan what ever Do you know who I am? Dare to hit me I'm hitting scum like you. I've wanted to beat you up for a long time. Your mother didn't teach you to respect women. I will teach you today Qin Xiao wants to marry into my Duan family. There are many women. Don't regret it Aunt Aunt Aunt It was my parents who forced me to study abroad. I didn't mean to leave without telling you. It was your parents who forced you to Or do you think the Duan family will go bankrupt at that time? It doesn't matter anymore I already have a wife But I'm back There is no need for a substitute anymore. Chen Xiao is not your substitute. While having an affair with Ye Lin I want to pretend to be affectionate in front of my sister-in-law. Why are you such a jerk? I didn't touch her There's an annoying pretty boy next to her. Then why don't you hold on tight? Do you want to wait until your sister-in-law hands you a wedding invitation before you regret it? Xiaoxiao How did you find me? I was an asshole yesterday. Sorry. Go away, I don't want to talk to you. He told you to get out of my way Things between us What does it have to do with you? Xiaoxiao, I have something to tell you I don't want to hear Xiaoxiao I admit I had thought of using you as Ye Ling's substitute before. But after you left, I realized I have you in my heart From now on I have nothing to do with him anymore I promise you I beg you Come with me Do you like playing this game? Lost or affectionate drama I won't forgive you Never Cheng Xiao, I have already humbly apologized to you Are you done yet? Why should I forgive you if you apologize? Why have you become so selfish and strong? Is this the man who taught you this? Does he know that you are a jinx who brings down your parents? You said I was selfish when you didn't take advantage of me If I can't control it, I'll say I'm strong Actually, you are the selfish one. You are the strong one It is you who proves yourself by suppressing women As the person he once trusted most You poked his scar the hardest. Don't let me see you bothering Xiao Xiao again Otherwise I will make you pay What's your business? What are you You can try it Cheng Xiao, have you thought it through? You really left with this man Don't ever think of going back to the Duan family again in your life. Are you confident about the new product you are going to release today? certainly Zhang Tezhu I'll give you 20 million I want to get out of Huayao alone Sorry, this does not comply with our company's regulations. Jewelry materials Huayao needs I can offer a 5% discount. Who do you want to open? he Is it great to be rich? If you want to go crazy, go back to Duan's Chen Xiao, let me tell you Having money is great If you have the ability, find someone richer than me. Someone with more status. Get this poor bastard out of your Huayao now. It's you who should go What are you? I want you to kneel down and apologize to me immediately Duan Yu This is not your place of authority. Mr. Xue Mr. Xue You are the president of Huayao I told you I'd make you pay. Ge Huayao received our project and information flow Come back soon It's you who did it, Mr. Huayao doesn't welcome you. Good Guy I thought you were just a jewelry designer. You said before that you wanted to establish a top jewelry group You really did it I told you that you are the best jewelry designer I own the most advanced jewelry group Works designed by Ms. Chen in our company The response online was enthusiastic I will definitely win the first place in this emerging designer competition What gift do you think she would like? Why don't you give yourself to Miss Chen? Tacky Don't worry Ayi's business is my business Wait until I win the championship of today's emerging designer competition Companies that cancelled cooperation with Duan I will definitely come to you on my knees and beg for cooperation. Lingling is still awesome Unlike Cheng Xiao, that loser I want Ayi to marry you quickly. Make other wives envy me I have a daughter-in-law as good as you. Cheng Xiao, why are you here? Cheng Xiao, do you have some shame? You followed me here Don't think you can follow me shamelessly I can make Ayi not divorce you They are as thick-skinned as mother and son. The agreement has been signed Why don't you go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get a divorce? Lingling and Ayi are a perfect match Wait until she finishes participating Huayao Group's Emerging Designer Competition Then you will know the difference between you. I also participated in this competition. You can also participate Don't make it from some low-quality product from a small workshop. You have been living on your aunt all these years. It's better not to come out and embarrass yourself. What competition are you participating in? It will be embarrassing to involve my son. Be honest with me I can also introduce you to a security guard to marry It won't let you starve to death Zhang Tezhu Aunt This is Zhang Te, the capable man beside Huayao's president. Zhang's assistant is really a talented person Can become the right-hand man of Huayao President Really young and promising Make way Miss Chen, Mr. Xue said he has something urgent to discuss with you. Assistant Zhang, are you mistaken? We are obviously much better than him. How can you be so good to this useless stepfather? So polite Mr. Zhang, I am Ye Lin who contacted you before. I want to meet you, Mr. Xue oh It's you Mr. Xue said he is not interested in you Miss Chen, let's go. I thought I could turn over by just spreading my legs. The truth is you will never be better than me See? Be nice to your sister Ye Lin She gave me a beautiful necklace. This is not Huayao's new designer. Jessica's work? Not only limited to the world Not yet released to the public Ye Lin, how did you get it? Although not released But I'm not an ordinary person I will go to the wives' circle and show off Let them envy me Congratulations to our chief designer Jessica The first product was a big hit I made it specially for you. This is too expensive. There is nothing better than you taking your work to the stage to receive the award Better publicity effect? It seems so. After all, I am also a beauty. Then I hope that Miss Chen Like the name of the IOU necklace Forget the past Rebirth Thanks Chen Xiao sister in law Wanwan's ghost lingers Followed here This is Huayao's new product How do you have agarwood? This necklace is worth a lot of money And not yet released You didn't ask Zhang Tezhu to buy you a fake one, did you? Zhang's son You don't know yet? This little bitch I can't survive without you I hooked up with Huayao's special assistant Now he even brings a fake one here to show off Xiaoxiao, if you want this necklace, I can buy it for you. You don't need to bring fakes. You apologize to me now I promise to give it to you when it is released. You buy real It's not your turn to buy him this necklace. You, a pretty boy, don't have the right to speak here. Zhang Tezhu This agarwood is fake and is here to tarnish your company's reputation. While flirting with you, I'm also flirting with this pretty boy. You'd better kick these two people out. Who are you going to kick out? Blind things This is our President Xue And Miss Chen But our chief designer of Huayao's new product This is also the winner of the Newcomer Award He uses fake Chen Xiao You are the mysterious designer Jessica He is just a babysitter who has taken care of my son for 4 years. How could he be the chief of Huayao? Smile, you are Jessica Why didn't you tell me Stop playing dumb. You haven't seen my works. It's just that you never want to acknowledge my ability Because you need Just a canary that is easy to control Xiaoxiao should have been a phoenix soaring into the sky You broke your leg. Blind Let's go, Xiaoxiao Take the stage that belongs to you Let us welcome the winner of this Xingyue Designer Competition Ms. Chen Xiao, Chief Designer of Huayao Group and Mr. Xuancheng, President of Huayao Ye Ling, tell my mom now What's the matter with the necklace you gave her? Yes, Lingling Can't you tell that this necklace is my mother? She just lied to you Ye Lin, the necklace you gave me is fake. The title is my sister-in-law's. Besides, my brother spent a lot of money on traveling after he went abroad. Men from all over the world are welcome I was expelled without even getting my diploma. Aunt No, this is all fake. Haven't you always loved me? The only one I love is Chen Xiao I deceived you a lot. What good thing are you? Hypocritical dog man If you can't get it, you will make a fuss Lost but pretending to be affectionate Pooh I broke up with you. Why should I keep my virginity for you? Only Cheng Xiao, that fool, ate four meals with you. Years of hardship You are worthy of being compared with Cheng Xiao Brother, others are watching You let him go Duan Yi, you will never win back Cheng Xiao You are so pitiful. Mom told you that sister-in-law is the best What a sin! Cheng Xiao has always been very filial to me. I'm really blind I fell in love with that vicious woman Ye Lin This is my sister-in-law's diary. I think you need to know What have you missed? I have a high fever today Go to the hospital for infusion Everyone is accompanied I am the only one Auntie, what is he busy with? Why you never message me back? Nurse I want to go to the toilet Could you help me get the bottle? Where's your water? I have a fever and pneumonia. I'm getting an injection in the hospital Can you pick me up? Tuan Tuan is dead He clearly said before that he would protect me and Tuantuan He doesn't care You don't care about me anymore, right? Where are you going? Are you heartless? Your mother threw Tuan Tuan out Such a big group of fish It's just a cat At worst, I can raise a new one for you. I have worn away your love for me time and time again I was wrong I really know I'm wrong Xiaoxiao I'm sorry I was too selfish before. Wrap you in me But I ignored your efforts for me I really know I'm wrong Please forgive me Until now What's the point of saying this? Xiaoxiao, I know I did a lot of wrong things before. You can't forgive me But I beg you to give me another chance This time, I will definitely protect you with Tuantuan This is the cat that looks most like a team member. From now on I only love you You really like to find a substitute. Thank you You misunderstood me I just want to make up for my mistakes. Translation: If you look back, I will not wait for you here. I like my life now Let's let each other go. Xiaoqiu