Many of us, in our pursuit of hosting the Holy overemphasize our focus and our love for God, prove that he really, really loved Jesus. He meant God, instead of His love for you, few things will passion, he cuts somebody's ear off. That means go and cuss somebody out in the street. You can why? Because you focused on your love for lack devotion. When the time came to actually man.&quot; A lot of emotion at the altar, no devotion your love for God. He is the source of your love with me. It doesn't start with my holiness. with Him. But when you host the Holy Spirit, it's about the cross. It's about the blood. It's about out of the place, I host the Holy Ghost. Somebody every person in this room is hiding something you're going to be. Jesus says, if you pray in for a reward but we will be rewarded. He says if if we give in secret, we will be rewarded. That rewards. In the Bible there are two stories that we see that Rahab was hiding two spies. She was for destruction. She pretty much had no future. future? By hiding someone. It changed her future, her relationship status because she ended up And she end up in the lineage of Jesus. Went from Lord Jesus Christ. She was hiding something. same time as a woman is in Jericho hiding someone from Jericho. His name is Achan. He took what things and hid them under his tent. Publicly he's Publicly he has a mask but privately he is hiding privately and I'm not talking about that. I'm not What I'm here today is to expose people who hide the altar. Struggling is I'm coming to my pastor and praying. Hiding it is I'm justifying it. I'm sin. Achan was hiding privately something under still good on the outside, and because he had a he thought his private problem was no longer a you get caught is because He's giving you a chance not because you're clever. It's because God is it doesn't mean that God doesn't know about it. It is hoping and wishing that you will repent of will get rid of what you are hiding and replace people who sit in church but hide sin. But Rahab the Holy Ghost. They might be nobody today but about to change because what you're hiding today today will change your ministry tomorrow. It change your business tomorrow, why? Because public reward. You cannot fast privately He who comes to me must believe that I am, and I'm the Holy Ghost. Everyone is hiding someone. You're forbidden. Everyone has a secret. You either but you have a secret. What changed my life when As you look and you see, one of my eyes doesn't I had a very difficult challenging birth and the me to the ER many times, and in fact one time because I fainted and they thought I died, and I and then they found out that one of the optical try to fix that. When I came to the United States to discover themselves. I was in the United have any friends already. At the time it was into this new church culture. I come from a very no makeup, head coverings, and my pastor brings during worship. So I have a culture clash. I have happening at the same time. It got so bad that will cause an accident to happen so that I will place with me not in it. I knew to take my life bottle this pain and this suffering, I would take I would lock myself in the room, turn on, blast will hear me wailing to God. And that was my to hide. I started to host. I started to mature starting a ministry. I wasn't pursuing preaching. did I know is that's where all ministries are born in secret place. In fact, every one of you is developed in private, in the dark, when nobody and maybe you are being developed and nobody It's not about being a spotlight. You are the you are being developed in the secret. But there developing something else but publicly there is a to wake you up and invite you to forsake the sin host him in your life. And it changed my life. I very real and tangible way. The insecurities were a different heart. My grades changed. The fear of a keyboarding class anytime I would find out that minute and 20 seconds. I was so chronically shy of I would sweat, I would freeze in front of people awkward. The socially awkward part is still from. The presence of Jesus Christ brought that the skin that is stretched over my skeleton. From that point is where everything else came from, and the same place. It's a secret place that is the determine where you will be tomorrow. Can somebody Spirit, I want to lay a foundation today because into religion and legalism in our pursuit of the no pentecost without the cross. There could be not you. What the sacrifice goes on the altar is the Spirit won't be given. He didn't say unless the Spirit responds to Christ. I am in Christ. The us, follows the grace of Jesus and the love of the Holy Spirit, we find ourselves in the trap where instead of emphasizing His love for us. That was I was like Peter, trying to prove to Jesus I through my prayer. You know when Peter, he really, really loved Jesus. He meant it well. The problem fickle. Anytime you're focused on your love for will happen. Your passion will lack compassion. means you can be, &quot;Yes, Jesus I love you,&quot; and can fast and at the same time yell at your spouse, not his love for you. His emotions lack devotion. when actually time came to pay for everything, time came to actually sacrifice something, he at the altar, no devotion in life, why? Because is the source of your love for Him. Hosting the start with my holiness. It doesn't start with my is the foundation. Jesus is the strength. Jesus is and John, you read the Gospel of John and you see bit arrogant if you write that about yourself. Peter on who loved Jesus more. He let Peter win that Jesus loved John. He didn't say more than Jesus's love for John, and found Jesus's love so see John verbally cursing. We see John standing John and He entrusts His mother to John. Because Lord but with the Lord's love for John. And guess Disciples met Jesus descending to heaven. fire. John met him in a new glory. John had fresh When you live your life wrapped with how much He how much you love Him, how little you love Him. Self-righteous or self- condemnation. That will &quot;But I didn't pray enough, I didn't fast enough. enough. I didn't do this enough.&quot; There will self-righteousness. But when you host the Holy His love. It's about the cross. It's about the of that place and out of that place I host the I want you to open your Bible with the foundation for hosting the Holy Spirit We'll pause there for just a moment. Host the Holy His sacrifice, the cross and the blood Now I understand some of you may be out here our need for the cross, for the blood and was a short man. There's something you know you fault. They were born this way, and also you In fact, there is nothing they can do to change no stretches. There's no protein shakes. There's that they can go to and somebody can stretch, legs can grow but both don't. It's a birth birth issue. The Bible says Zachaues was not able not see Jesus. And the Bible first gives us the let's blame people that are close to Jesus why the problem isn't the church people that are the out of Jesus. It's that I am born short. The This doesn't mean we don't lose our desire why we are drawn to spiritual things. That's why to ouija boards. That's why we're drawn to zodiac is a hunger for the supernatural because we came we cannot see God. We can sometime hear Him, we don't have a relationship with God. But if we the Bible says our problem is not church folk. sinners. No, no, no, no. We are not weak. We are are disobedient and dead in our sin. Don't condition. your condition cannot be fixed by not a Son. Your condition cannot be saved by religion. Instead He gave us the cross. I'm not But none of that could ever help you to have a learn to jump higher. But you can get a glimpse Him by jumping because you're too short. Every of my voice, and maybe you're sitting here and service and you are sitting here like you're in a okay. Maybe you're in the overflow and you maybe church doesn't make you any more Christian than sandwich. &quot;But I'm a good person.&quot; So call Peter because you need to be born again. So the law, yet Jesus says, &quot;You must be born again.&quot; Nicodemus, or as good as Cornelius, you and I are wrong. We have a birth problem, we have a behavior not the solution. And many of us think, I'm going therapist. I'm going to get a 12-step program. not change your relationship with God. Some of us It's because of that I left God. It's a beautiful the Bible says Zacchaeus couldn't see God, Jesus, Jesus. The Bible says because he was short. were mean but you are a sinner, and the reason you You're separated from God through your birth as a lie of the enemy would be this, to sneak in into your conscience that if I am somewhere in the I'm safe. I can't tell you, there were a few times airport. I was in the airport, went through the It happened one time in Denver. I was flying to the one that I had a ticket for was slowly those five foolish virgins in the Bible knocking there and I'm saying, &quot;I already paid for this was in the airport, missed the airplane. Being to be in the plane. The church is the airport. in church. Don't get around religion and miss your grandparents who are Christian and miss not church membership. It is to be in Christ, the name of Jesus Christ and to receive &quot;Amen.&quot; Don't settle for being in church instead But a lot of people are in church like I was in Him. They know someone who does. Nobody goes only go to heaven based on your relationship He has children. God does not have grandchildren. so.&quot; It's either you are His child or you are Jesus? Are you on the aeroplane that is headed to Has your name been written in the Lamb's book will they say, he left home or will they say, a pilgrimage on the way to heaven? Are you going headed and you're not headed to just the American with the Holy Spirit and with Christ. I know there but you're about to. You will meet Him today. He to preach the good news of His Son, Jesus until we know our bad condition. We are say try harder. That's not the message of the not try. The first thing is Zacchaeus is trying two. Verse number four. Instead of getting butt Jesus, and exposing disciples of Jesus Christ on a book about [inaudible] from Christianity. ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see &quot;And when Jesus came to that place,&quot; I want you not look down. But Zacchaues was short. No longer looks up and I want you to notice this. The Bible Zacchaeus. That's not the most amazing part. Jesus name. Zacchaeus couldn't see Jesus because he businessman you are, single mom you are, rich, No matter what your church standing position is, of God. We're trying to see God through our good to connect with someone out there but we cannot. years ago called the tree of the cross. On which that tree, trust in the cross, trusts in the world gave. No longer you are trying to see God, He calls you by your name. He calls you by your restores you. People will still call you by your God some praise right now. Get up on your feet and you've been forgiven, if you've been justified, if if you have been cleansed, if you have You may be seated. Can you give me a minute to talk about the cross? Two things you must understand about the cross. cross two things happened. Jesus's death &quot;Substitutionary.&quot; It's for us. Somebody say, &quot;His blood.&quot; Secondly His death on the cross was were with Him. Why? Two sides of what happened Christian, it changes everything about your host the Holy Ghost. We have two problems. One &quot;Sins.&quot; It's things we do. Second problem we causes us to produce sins. Think of a spider and you don't kill the spider, the spider web will care of the spiderweb. It washes our sins. We for our sins. The blood clears the record between He was counting and counting all of our sins blood hits clear. You go to zero and God sinned again because the blood paid for all God put your sin under the carpet. You were It cleared my record. Somebody paid for it. God is pays for it. The second thing the blood did is it with God through Jesus, I don't have peace in me. myself. I know He is at peace with me. I'm not at even further, and says I'm going to sprinkle your but you failed, but you sinned, look at what will never accept you. And when your own worst you sit silent as a victim until the blood yes I have done that but the blood speaks better me. God is better at saving me than I am at I am at getting lost. He is better at delivering healing me than I am at getting sick. The blood! God. It cleansed my conscience and I find peace. I me by my name. He doesn't call me by my past. I peace in me. Not because I forgave myself And right about that is when the accuser comes through the blood, and right when you found &quot;I will remind you what you did.&quot; And that's the accuser, by the power of the blood. It satan keep reminding me about my past. I got to I'm adopted. I've been washed. Jesus died for You going to burn in the lake of fire but I family. He wrote my name in the book of life. but now I have been forgiven. So devil shut behind me Satan. Why? Because the blood, the blood. Somebody shout, &quot;The blood never lost it's this with me, &quot;The blood deals with sins, clears accuser.&quot; That's the substitution. Somebody All right, we can stop repeating But the problem is the spider is still there. This for me, I was in Him. Romans chapter 6 says this, That's not for me. That's me in Him. The blood, substitutionary. The cross was inclusive, why? not my fault. My great, great, grandfather's born first time with sinful nature. The old me. the self me, that bad thing in me cannot be fixed, have a solution for its fixing. God only had one Through birth I got Adam's blood flowing through Adam's sinful tendencies get removed is not It's not through discipline. You can't suppress it every possible solution and found that the only His Son on the cross, when He died, He took your &quot;How does that work?&quot; Well explain to me how does your veins. But it works. You can see it in the does that connected to Adam? I can't explain it, to sin. All you have to do is learn to talk of you. We can fight theology day and night but Even when we get saved, we know, yes I got that. Then many of us look forward to death one free. In fact that's why people take their as their deliverance. So many of us, were like to be totally free from this lust. I'm going to to be totally free from this. You actually you. The only good news, you don't have to wait funeral 2,000 years ago. I was crucified with future, it's the past. You were buried my death is not going to happen one day. was spilled for my sins. The cross was for The cross was for the spider. The blood was for Is this helping anybody? In Romans chapter 6. How shall we who die to sin live any longer many of us don't, &quot;that as many of us as were His death?&quot; Not into His blood. I want you to see identified with His cross. The blood is for sins. that thing that lives in us that That means you don't have to wait for funeral that happened 2,000 years ago. cross. That's why Paul keeps saying, knowing this. Why? Because many of us have not realized what application has the cross. symbolism of identification with Jesus. We live when a girl can identify as a guy. And that is in facts. But when you identify with death about something. You are factually placing your I don't wait to die to be free. and because of that death, my death with Him. When rise up. And the Bible even says, we're not just but even with His exaltation. The Bible says, That means my identity is Jesus Christ. I identify died at His death. Whatever I got from uncle Adam, got from Adam, Jesus, the last Adam nailed it on My death will set you free. I'm going to deposit a of you. Somebody give God some praise for the blood. Somebody give God some praise that the You may be seated. Deliverance from sin will when He died. Jesus removed my sins through the people get buried. That's why we are buried and never fully understood what actually hope for the day of our total deliverance instead of thank God that that day has happened I don't feel that.&quot; That's why Romans says, the truth will set you free. Then it says, accounting term. Now you got to do the books, don't present your members, and it says to the spider died. It's when Vlad died. me. You and I were born short, because of in the blood of Jesus Christ. Why? Because clears our record and conquers the He died on the cross and Bible is explicit, that was inclusive. I was included in His death. look back to the calvary and I don't ask the sinful man. I thank God that He killed Lord I'm going to leave that man over there and why? Because today I have a new man inside of inside of me. Today I have I am born again. today me. It is the blood of Jesus. It is the life of &quot;Amen.&quot; Are you with me? Can you give me Zacchaeus encounters Jesus, but I want you to in his life. So number one, we said all to see God but because we're short, we can't. we don't see God, God sees us, calls us and then clears our sins and deals with our at the sycamore tree. I want you to notice going to read it to you because it's so amazing. haste and sign this salvation card so that our Zacchaeus repeat this prayer out loud after me. and I'm not against followup. I think it's very for today,&quot; not tomorrow when you remove the with all the people you ripped off. And evict shacking up with and you're not married clear the dirty underwear that are lying He says for today. You don't have even time to get not I maybe, could you please. &quot;I must stay,&quot; house. &quot; Brings me to point number three. we can't because we're born sinners. The God sees us. We experience freedom from sins. But the transformation happens must stay in your house.&quot; How many At the altar. Jesus doesn't want an encounter to be hosted in you. Watch this. Jesus walks into anything yet. That doesn't intimidate Jesus. give all of his money. The chapter before, chapter must I do to get eternal life?&quot; And Jesus tells rich ruler couldn't do it. Here is a rich sinner simply walks into his house, and he gives not 10%, of his income he gives automatically without Why? I believe the Lord showed us these two rich it will be impossible. I didn't say It's worse than that. Impossible. the more upset you will be with how hard it not just saving you and saying, &quot;Well you right? Go and now live for me.&quot; No, no, no. He tried that with Adam. It didn't work. This may offend some of you. God doesn't trust to live through you, for Him. That means I've been crucified with Christ. It is Many of you accepted Jesus as your Savior, is Christ. He didn't say I live for Him. This is going to set so many people free right not happen by your efforts. It happens through come inside. He does that. The Bible says, &quot;But work to put you in Jesus. He became the vine so you can be the branch. You didn't do anything and He says, I must stay in your house today and host the Holy Spirit. This is life &quot;Lord help me to live for You.&quot; Your There's a world of difference between asking God to help you to be holy and Fruit of the Spirit is not developed by striving. a work, you're not a machine. You're a branch. be fruitful in every work. Meaning whatever work Christian life is supernatural because it's It's not a life of striving. This new nature He only trusts His Spirit. That's why He doesn't Spirit that operates this nature and the Holy by late Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke. There was a boy who had a large house and this house floor and the five bedroom on the first floor. and this boy gladly welcomed Jesus inside and suite had its own bathroom. I mean beautiful room. the boy. The next day there was another knock on was in the bedroom. It was the devil. The boy of got inside, start pushing his way through. The boy day he finally got him out of the house. He was down from the second floor. Hey how was your I brought you into my house, at least You could well I am the guest in your house who happens to decided to give Jesus the whole five rooms Jesus more room. He gives Jesus all five bedrooms the door. Remembering the previous battle from just slowly and a little bit. Just in case get in. The moment he opens it just a little bit, wrestles with the boy, fights with the boy and boy got the devil out. Now he's running upstairs, gave You half of my house and You are not helping boy, you gave Me your house. I am your guest. Took the keys and says, Jesus this is Your house, your master suite. The one that you put Me in. door of the house. The boy got out to answer it into the room. So Jesus comes down, and the boy of I ain't staying in my room. I'm just going to, knows who's there, and the moment the devil opened bit. Jesus didn't open the door a little bit. He he got on his knees. He says, Sir this was Stop trying to see God. Trust in the cross and you Instead of trying to become a better person, Some of you husbands, I have a message for you Instead trust the Holy Spirit who will help you is no need to crucify the flesh. I'm not saying for fasting. All of that has its place but it has us hosting Jesus, otherwise we're going to be like could not obey Jesus, His command. But when Jesus you're hosting the Holy Spirit, obedience to God your life becomes changed, your character becomes life. It's an exchange life. He lives His life if you're battling with some other things stop working on it. Look how far it got you by What if you quit and just quit trying to be I quit. Instead I'm going to do one thing, host time that it happened to me. It was in a garage. frustrated in my relationship with God. It was of the cross. I know the Holy Spirit lives in me garage and I said, &quot;God, I am so tired living for things that I need to do. God I quit and from this live through me.&quot; I remember when being a good of me. She wants to be hugged, she wants to go naturally doesn't come to me. I forget those thought would come easy when I was dating. Until write down in my reminders, and create three you got to do that Vlad, keep your marriage and wonderful. And I always, always missed I didn't tell this to my wife but I told it to good husband. I can't. But I said, Jesus you are through me. Remind me to buy flowers, remind me to I can't do it. Therefore I can do all things not through remembering, not through discipline. life is about Jesus. How do I host the Holy sinner. l repent of my sin. I experience the cross of Jesus that destroys my sin. I welcome the I welcome you. Holy Spirit, I love you. Holy through me. Holy Spirit love through me. Holy [I Surrender song] Here I am, down Surrendering all. And find me here, Lord as You draw me near. Just close your eyes. Desperate for You, desperate for You. And I surrender Oh Lord. Drench my soul, as mercy and thirst, hunger and thirst. feet. Whatever it is you need to do. Stretch Those of you in the overflow, on Facebook. [Music] Speak to me now, speak to me now. I surrender, I surrender. Oh yes, I want Say, I surrender. I surrender. I surrender. I want to know You. I want to I surrender. I want to know You more. I I surrender, I surrender, I surrender. I to know You more. I want to know You. You are worthy. You are worthy. Come on, I want to know You more. I want to know You more. surrender. We want to know you Lord. I want to know You Lord. Say I surrender. I surrender. I surrender. I want to know You more. I surrender. You are worthy. You are worthy. Come I want to know You more. I want to surrender. We surrender all. I want to know You Lord. We want to know You You are worthy of it all. [Speaking in tongues] I surrender. I want to know You more. I want Like a rushing wind. Jesus breathe within and Come on surrender your flaws. Surrender been working on, let Him work, let You don't need to do is Like a rushing wind, Jesus breathe within. And come and have Your way. Lord have Your way, stir within my soul Lord. Lord have Your way. You are worthy of it all. [Music] You are worthy of it all. There some of you, your pastors, your leaders, leading a ministry. Maybe you're a leader in of the rope. You can't do it anymore. You said can't. I want you quickly run up to the front burned out. I can't do this anymore. This is not right now I want you to quickly run of Jesus. I want you to surrender right that negative experience. I want you Just surrender that to the Lord. For from You are all things and to glory. I surrender just allow this just to I just surrender to the Lord. knees. Some you need to stand and just your pain. It's not by might. It's not by Ministry cannot be done in your strength. your strength. It can only be done by the forsaken your prayer life and the prayer has now to be unquenched. Stretch your hands &quot;God live through me, lead through [Speaking in tongues] I want to know you more. [Music] If I can invite the pastors. The pastors and the leaders just lay hands on them right [Music] want to know You Lord. I want to know You Lord. Lord we want to know You. Say I surrender, I surrender, You more. We want to experience Your love. Say surrender. I want to know You more. I want to know You more. Like a rushing wind, Jesus breathe withing and Lord have me. Like a mighty storm and stir Lord have Your way in me. Like a rushing wind, Lord have Your way in me. Like a might a Come and have Your way. Lord way. Lord have your way. Say Lord have your way. way. Say Lord have Your way. Lord have Your way. I surrender, and I surrender and I want [Instrumental music] I'll never know how much it cost I'll never know how much it cost I'll never know how much it cost I'll never know how much it cost I'll never know how much it cost Here I am to worship, here I am to bow Come on in the lobby, on Facebook, from the back row to the front. We're All together worthy, all together wonderful to me. Just one second. Just one second. ministry, I want to give a call. Whether you were know Jesus as your Lord and as your Savior. Maybe me or in the lobby. You are like that Zacchaeus. or on the opposite you consider yourself a lost for you. The Bible says that Jesus died on the be washed. You will never cleanse yourself by sin nature, and the Holy Spirit is the only cure you don't know where you will spend eternity, and your Lord and Savior. I'm not saying if you want Jesus. Maybe your parents are Christian and under faith, you have to have your own personal as they're going to sing right now, I'm going to be very comfortable because of so many people. this way, and I want you to come on the stage and stand, more people will fit. You may say, but why confess Me before men, I will confess you before careful about the instruments. Just come on this where you will spend eternity and you don't know either on this side. Just come and stand right in the back here. When you heard my presentation Jesus that he's talking about. I need to get saved the airport but I'm not in the airplane. I need right with God. I need to get saved.&quot; I want you I'm going to close this call in just a moment. I before we do that, I want to specifically right know Jesus. Respond. If the Lord is calling you, trying to fill the empty hole that you have Quickly, quickly, quickly. Quickly. [Music] You guys can come right here. And everybody who is saved, you should Because here I am to worship, here I am to You're all together lovely, You're all Here I am to worship. Here I am to bow You're all together lovely, all I want you guys to get on your knees, not before the church. You're going to Jesus right now in a way that you've never to experience the power of the cross Church would you stretch your hands toward The prayer doesn't save, Jesus saves but sinners with me out loud. Say, Lord Jesus Christ. I the cross for all my sins. And You took my sin way I lived my life. I turn my life over to You. I cleanse my conscience and deliver me through save me Jesus. Fill me with Your Spirit. Change I've tried. I can't do it anymore, live through Use it for Your glory. Come on stretch your fill them with the Holy Ghost right now. From from the top of their head to the soles of soles of their feet. I break off every demonic mighty name of Jesus I pray that You will do their hearts God. Plant a brand new desire to but the Holy Ghost. Holy Ghost touch, in the Ghost. Pray in the Holy Ghost right now that [Praying in tongues] Be exalted now in the heavens, as Your glory You're the name above all names. Be exalted now in the heavens, There's a presence of God in this altar. here right now. Somebody's going from As Your glory fills this place, You alone deserve Be exalted now in the heavens, as Your glory fills this place, You alone deserve our Worthy is Your name. Jesus. Be exalted now and forever, as Your glory fills You deserve the praise, Jesus. You name. Worthy is Your name, Jesus. You For those of you that are here, you can you to make God's Word the standard for your life. I want to ask you that you will get water baptized connected to a local body in Jesus name. Church your seats, for those of you at the altar, if you moment. I know there's quite a few people that move right now into specifically ministering you can stay or you can go back to your seat. It's in your heart. You can be you're totally free but for just a moment. Just keep standing. No, no, your seat. I apologize. Unless you're very stand. The most important decision is Amen. And as I preach the Gospel today because I only one name and it's not the name of Vlad. It's as the cross is preached, the sinners respond, to specifically pray for, and we might not but I believe that I'm going to lead you are people in this room and I know you came online or perhaps you're dealing with to pray right now that the Lord is going to I want to ask you, if you can physically to stand hard to fight when you're seated. If you are you can't, it's completely fine. If you're having If you have sexual dreams, Incubus and Succubus. Demonic soul ties. Perhaps your ancestors effect in your dreams and in your thoughts. Maybe out of ignorance. Or maybe you dabbled into stuff Satan doesn't care what your reasons are. The same when they get in. Maybe you're here right now sicknesses and it's beyond medical science to and you're experiencing premature death that runs more spiritual. You're like accident prone, had can't explain that and you sense there's an evil spirit of fear that's attacking your life. But have demons and all of this stuff. That's for to bring the freedom to camp. And if you don't going to do first is I'm going to lead you in the to command unclean spirits to leave. Demons command ever Jesus gave in dealing with demons, we should just tell a person about Jesus and get where demons get cast out when you just get saved. out. The Bible doesn't say Jesus just showed Jesus has came into my life, demons all left. demons manifested but they didn't leave until for demons. It's deliverance, meaning we cast out. We cast them out by the authority of our boldness? I didn't. It's the command of Christ may experience something. Some of you might not We welcome manifestations but that's not what in the power of the Holy Spirit. If you for some up. If for some reason you feel like screaming anything, you just let it out. They usually come mouth. Sometimes you feel it. People feel a sense lifted, different explanations but one thing is gets broken. That sleep night terrors are broken. leukemia and then vomited blood out and then went of leukemia and was completely healed in his diagnosed her, she would die in her sleep like deliverance, completely forgot to put a sleep day went to the doctor to examine herself and they of health. That's exactly, not what deliverance do anything. Jesus does the deliverance. merchants and overturns the tables. And that's are in this room, you're experiencing chronic Maybe you have an addiction that you abound and if you are here, you're addicted to smoking or you have those electric cigarettes or you but I want God to deliver me. I'm going to ask altar. Get out of your seat and drop them at I want you to publicly say, I don't want this not embarrassing you. We're embarrassing the witchcraft or if you have some kind of a charm on Cigarettes, all kinds of weed, all Lay it on the altar. Say God, I'm will not rule my life. I will be I know there's more people. You've God wants you to embarrass that sin, renounce God I trust that You're delivering me. I trust not rule my life. This addiction is being [Yahweh Will Manifest Himself song] Yahweh, will manifest Himself. Yahweh, Rapha, Elohim, Shaddai, If you worship, He will He will manifest and if you If you call Him, He will manifest and if you worship, He will manifest and If you worship, He will He will manifest and if you He will manifest and if you seek Him, He manifest. Yahweh will manifest Himself. manifest Himself, will manifest Himself. [music] Now the Holy Spirit's presence is in if you can turn on the light in the auditorium. the prayers with me. I want you to say this with and unspoken on both sides of my family going back form of witchcraft, all sorcery, all divination, name of Jesus. Say I renounce every ungodly soul for forgiveness for any sexual immorality in my all anger, all resentment, all revenge, all In the name of Jesus, I renounce any and all legal or illegal that I have allowed to keep me ego, rebellion in Jesus name. I renounce all of Jesus. Say I renounce all fear, all unbelief any unclean Spirit tormenting my life, anywhere you are, there's no hiding place for Every unclean spirit, I command you to come every spirit of Jezebel, every spirit of every unclean spirit of infirmity, in the name spirit that came through spells, witchcraft spirit that came through a Masonic Lodge, come out in the name of Jesus. Out in the name of Breathe It out, breathe it out right now. come out right now in the name of Jesus. Come out of Jesus. Come out in the name of Jesus. If you're something is happening to you, there's an unclean them to the front so that the team can minister to every demonic spirit, come up and out right Jesus mighty name. Holy Ghost fire in Jesus mighty Ghost fire in Jesus mighty name. Let's minister. fire in Jesus mighty name. Holy Ghost fire demonic manifestation, just quickly run up to the you free right now. God is liberating you right you are standing. Loose yourself right now in the Say this with me, say any chain. Come on, say my life to his kingdom, right now be broken. Say, for the next 30 seconds and begin to break every to break every chain of depression. Come on begin every chain of those nightmares. Come on, begin to all around this room. Deliverance is breaking that liberty right now. Holy Ghost fire in Jesus [Music- I Speak The Name Of Jesus] Your name is power, Your name is healing. Your name is life. Break every stronghold, shine Come on church, pray in the Holy Ghost, pray in Pray in the Holy Ghost right now. Pray in the [Music] Your name is healing, Your name is life. Break every stronghold, shine through the shadows, burn like a fire. Your name is power. Your name is healing. Your name is life. Break every storonghold, shine through the shadows, burn like a fire. Shout Jesus on the mountains, Jesus for my family, I speak the holy name, Jesus. Shout Jesus from the mountain, Jesus in the streets, Jesus in the darkness over every enemy. Jesus for my family. I speak the holy name of Jesus . Shout Jesus from the mountain, Jesus in the streets, Jesus in the darkness over every enemy. Jesus for my family. I speak the holy name Jesus. Your name is power, Your name is healing, Your name is life. Break every stronghold, shine though the shadows, burn like a fire. Your name is power, Your name is healing, Your name is life. Break every stronghold, shine through the shadows, burn like a fire. Your name, Your name Break every stronghold, shine through Your name is power, Your Break every stronghold, shine through shadows, burn like a fire. [Music- Our Father] Because Yours is the glory forever, amen. Yours is Come on, lift those hands moment. Miracles are already happening. God It's the kingdom of [Music] Yours is the glory forever amen. Thank you Lord. Yours is the glory forever amen. Yours is the Kingdom, Yours is the power, Yours is the glory forever amen. Thank you Lord. Freedom. Liberty. Whom the Son sets free is free indeed. Just raise your hands, say Lord, I thank You Dear Yeshua, dear Right now I want to just take a moment. I know I want to minister healing to those people is not a barrier for God. It doesn't take great . little faith in a great God and our God is a great incurable diseases. He does unusual miracles, I'm going to ask you, if you have an infirmity, an broken, chronic excruciating pain. I'm going to ask where there is pain. If it's your back, place your or blindness or fibroids. Whatever that is, nothing right now, we're going to pray. The anointing He comes, healing is in His wings. Say this with me is sickness. Say, my body is the temple of the Holy not for disease. In the name of Jesus, I rebuke this Say, oh Holy Spirit, Keep your hand there. Father in the name of Jesus, that back, that injury that happened at work, in a I speak Your word. You said You sent Your word and they were healed. I rebuke those headaches right asthma right now in the mighty name of Jesus. on that numbness in the body, swollenness in the Jesus. Gastritis, acid reflux, in the name of Jesus be be healed in Jesus name. I rebuke that stomach ulcer I ask You right now that You will touch that breast cancer, cervical cancer, lung cancer, ovarian leukemia. In the mighty name of Jesus, cancer cells the name of Jesus, I speak healing to the kidneys healing to the liver in the mighty name of Jesus. the mighty name of Jesus Christ. I rebuke that name. Blindness leave, color blindness be gone hemorrhaging, in Jesus mighty name be broken right sperm in the name of Jesus. Every bareness be broken name of Jesus, be healed in Jesus name. Be healed in hands and just yield it to the Lord, just give that because You bore it on the cross. He carried our our diseases. Just lift your hands right now, come to thank Him for the cross. Come on, come on. Yeshua. Yeshua, just thank Yeshua. Thank the Healer. Thank the one who healed you on the cross. Come your eyes off of your disease right now and just you honor Him, as you fix your eyes on Him, healing healing virtue will flow. We worship You. We worship [Music - Yeshua] My beloved is the most beautiful, among thousands and thousands. My beloved is the most beautiful, among thousands and thousands. Yeshua Yeshua Healings are happening all around this like a healing rain. Drips are falling. As you just worship Him right now, you'll realize that sickness is gone, that pain is God is restoring the digestive system. God that back. He's restoring that spinal [Speaking in tongues] Thank You Lord. Thank You Lord. Thank You Thank you Lord. Come on, one more time, one more time. [Music] Yeshua Yeshua. Thank You Jesus. Thank You Lord. We praise Jesus spoke to the man with the lame hand, with the was made whole. He told the man that was paralyzed, strength came. Peter looked with John to the Strength came into his body. Right now I want you there where you are standing. If you had that pain, power of suggestion or the atmosphere. There is is a healing Savior. If you notice that after second, just one second. If you notice that after of your hands at me. If you notice that after you room. Now I'm going to ask you for something right seat, where you are at take a seat. For those of You had this and after the prayer you feel like I is not just a faith confession, you already felt right now, come up right here on the stage, just for the glory of God. Just want to take a few request but you had it and after prayer, the stage. If you also were here and you got delivered exactly what it was. Just quickly come up right now. We're just going to take just about a few minutes to give Jesus the glory because a lot of times hear that until a year later but we're who felt like, you know what, something left me. A demon that was tormenting my life. And if you experience physical healing in your body, would you help me? Could you come up and with that lane right now over there. From very brief instruction because there's a lot of Okay, so step in, step in just a little bit closer. This is what we're going to ask you. Your name, what keep it in about 30, 40 seconds. Be very brief so Let's go. oh Jesus. Your name? Johnny, my name is my fibula was fractured and I tore a ligament I've been feeling pain, I've been neglecting my able to jump or run yet. But Jesus Christ thank You Lord. What thank you Jesus. Oh God. So what happened today? I this. Oh Jesus. I'm just so grateful. I can't wait pray Father God I'm just grateful. Amen, God bless Thank you. What happened to you? My name is Joshua. my neck left and right. It wouldn't move equally. the glory. Go ahead, what happened to you sir? My name is Daniel and chronic pain in both my shoulders and the center of my back. And as we my back and it's gone. God bless you. God bless you sir. Thank you. Go ahead ma'am. Hi, my name is Consell. Just got diagnosed with bad arthritis, getting been struggling. I have an appointment on the 18th did feel it in the back. And I said, you know just pain, I was scared. I almost didn't want to look for feel light. I feel like it's gone and I praise God. Touch, touch her Lord. May this never come back in the name of Jesus, amen. What happened to you sir? we were praying, I touched both my knees because there. And as I was against the wall, I try to not, happen? And as we were praying, I removed my hands swelling, I felt no cracking. I felt blessed and amen. You may go, God bless you. Go ahead. Hi, since I was pregnant with my son who was born in if I stretched it, if I exercised. It wouldn't get right foot and said the prayer and I am healed. Thank you you Jesus. Thank you Lord. Hi my name is Crystal. two fingers, and when I came in I couldn't make one since June. And they were referring me to a said something else was going on. And as I prayed, is Mariah and I came here with severe back pain. My back pains been here since like 2019. I went to doctors and did physical therapy. It literally couldn't bend backwards I couldn't go like this, I put my hand on my back and I started praying, everything. Hi my name's Roger. I've been off of work for the last two months. I have cervical nerve pain, non-stop and today I can move Hi my name is Paty. I have a stent in my I cannot fall down but bad and my chest is starting to hurt. But My God, God is awesome. So as the man of God told in my hands and my chest started to hurt. So going on, I placed it over my chest and the pain Hallelujah. My name is Nico. I've been having where I've almost been like bone on bone for I feel cartilage in my knees, I feel no enemy tell me to not get up off my chair. But Whose next? Now are you guys all for healing testimony? For deliverance as well? Okay, let's go, let's go. Go ahead. My name is Joanna and I don't really, I'm still processing what happened needed to pray over me, and I passed out and I was happened. How's your back? It doesn't hurt no more. It doesn't hurt you? I passed out on the chair. I don't Probably something good happened. And then there's Who help us to pass out, amen. God bless you, Angela. I got into a really bad car accident had to have surgery on my lower spine and or like a walk or standing for extended period and I felt like this cooling, tingly sensation yeah. Hi my name is Erica, and I had ovarian deliverance. My name is Denise and I got healed of random ear pain since last year, and I felt like I have brand new knees. I used to play too. My name is Taylor. I've been feeling like of different things. But one of the things when my throat and I felt something. So I came up here, to do with witchcraft because someone in my house I grew up in. So I got peace from God and that. My name is Elijah. I fractured my back 21 right now and bro I was praying, I was the past two days. I've been in pain but believe? So how's your back? I feel good. I makes everything new. Right, that's good. You name is Mary. I had surgery four years breathe anymore. Well I could, I had problems later the device that they put in me had Weird, oddly enough when you were talking what. I was getting this pain in my jaw and but that was hurting and then I came up know what, I mean hopefully everything else my jaw it just. Father in the God and we commend every pain, everything that's Jesus to looser right now. A spirit of infirmity, breath. Touch her Holy Ghost, from the top of Jesus name. Let's go, next. Just leave her, leave her, walked in here with a limp. My right foot I had But it brought like on the back of my heel, there plate on the side that just wouldn't go away. I you asked us to lift up our hands in worship pain there and the tingling is still happening The Lord will complete what He started. Come Yeah a few more. Let's go. Hi my name is Teresa, right leg had been bothering for like the last walking normally. You're not limping anymore . going through a whole lot of things spiritually. of things was happening and I just know that the glory, amen, amen, amen, amen. God bless you ma'am. What happened to you today? I suffer from back spasms. Okay. Usually I'm okay but then if I do a even like get up from a sitting position, it hurts. service and I couldn't even get up. I had we prayed and everything for the back and one more time because maybe that was just a fluk back is fine. I can, I can bend over. It doesn't like just get up from my seat. So I praise God for else here? Let's come on this side. My name is dealing with what I think it was a spiritual and I'm like Lord, I'm married. Been married for this dreams. Today I woke up having a dream from a my mind and you called it out. And I just remember ladies brought me up here and you named it. I that was, that was it. That was the last time, and my dreams sexually and I just wanted to be out. Yeah, I felt free. I was like thank God. Free for the glory of God, amen. God my name is Erica and since last year I've been of turmoil in my heart. And I've been asking God because I've been delivered about from multiple I felt like even though I said I forgive, back to that. So today finally the Lord freed Holy Spirit I'm done trying to be everything. A That surrender led me to my freedom today. Amen, Person in the back, could you put the more people could come up and testify. Right now called share your testimony, and I want to ask, the back if you can help me out with that. If the stage, I would love to hear. I'm actually this if you received healing or deliverance. Or on YouTube. You experienced the power of God and you have some tangible thing that the Lord has done. Just let me know. This would junkie for testimonies. So that's why. I know it's good to hear a preacher, it's also good to I would love to hear everybody's testimony but 20 minutes and we didn't get to you. And so me know. Scan the QR code and I would love to hear