Britain's economy is under incredible More than you may realize. Austerity through two successive, and damaging crises, has left the UK Compared to our friends here or here, or in fact, in any major advanced economy, national debt in the UK has ballooned But it's not just borrowing Look at tax revenue Basically, that the government takes to pay for what It's almost as high as when what And in an election year, tasked with writing a new spending plan. We can't raise taxes, And yet, public services Britain has appointed five years as Taylor Swift's released Four, to be precise. So the question is, can a new UK the problem its predecessors couldn't? The next government is inheriting The burden of taxes on the economy Public services are creaking at the seams. Record waiting lists Parts of the justice system a halving of the number of courts You get the picture, Some of this is down to government which is bigger than any G7 economy We are providing 280 billion pounds to get our country through coronavirus. But here's the thing. Most of that money was borrowed from creditors at historic lows, and repayments And they might have been. But then... The Russian assault has begun. The largest invasion of a neighboring The invasion triggered an energy crisis, oil and gas was choked by sanctions UK households will pay almost triple the price to heat their homes We're in the middle People are really scared and families this winter. The cost of living began to soar the second most generous Overall, 400 billion pounds all of which went into debt, and in debt as a share of our The twin impacts of the pandemic pushed our inflation rate to new highs, central banks to ramp up And if you're lucky enough to own your mortgage payments went up by hundreds Well, this is why. But for the UK government, but for hundreds of billions The combination of those two events to pay for our debt, to about 100 billion pounds a year. That 60 billion pound increase in spending interest is equivalent As a result, to spend on anything else, But the extra borrowing on those crises In fact, the UK economy has You can see here only Germany as it was so dependent on cheap an existential crisis Germany is also spending of its GDP on servicing its debt, though. So the challenge to the new government is without raising taxes or borrowing Well, one of the best ways to grow is to make a nation more productive. What happens with improving productivity you get more out of it. It doesn't mean what many people think it that you have to work harder. If you are working and you move to a tech company, profitable, has greater margins, But your contribution could be greater because you effectively In the wake of Brexit and Covid, We did inherit a situation where output had already been weakening quite dramatically after the global Which you can see here, altering a trend that had been in motion since the 1970s. You then have the impact of Brexit, on investment, which we saw feed pulling down our overall efficiency, And then Covid has added Which means we need our heads But for the time being, we need bodies too And here we have another problem. Across the major advanced economies, in the proportion of people finding jobs and going into the workforce But look at the UK, we lost workers. More people fell into long term sickness There's a million people, in a sense, many of them claiming disability benefit One of the drivers of growth to the pandemic had been the increase So the proportion of people able By going into reverse, that has caused Participation has not come back That represents This is all monumental pressure for the They need to get the population and in a more productive capacity. Then there's wiggle room and bring down national debt, freeing up and support the people unable Everyone agrees but if it's one the new government can