What if I told you there was something that would have an immediate, including your mood and your focus? And what if I told you that same thing and protect your brain like depression, Would you do it? Yes! I am talking about the powerful effects Simply moving your body, has immediate, long-lasting And that can last So what I want to do today about how I used my deep as a professor of neuroscience, to essentially do an experiment on myself in which I discovered why exercise that you can do for your brain today. Now, as a neuroscientist, that is the thing in our head right now, that is the most complex structure But it's one thing and it's another to see it. So here is a real preserved human brain. And it's going to illustrate two key areas The first is the prefrontal cortex, critical for things like decision-making, The second key area is located You have two temporal lobes in your brain, and deep in the temporal lobe critical for your ability to form and retain new long-term And that structure So I've always been fascinated How could it be that an event say, your first kiss, or the moment your first child was born, can form a memory that lasts an entire lifetime? That's what I want to understand. I wanted to start and record in the hippocampus as subjects were forming new memories. And essentially try and decode how which is how neurons how those brief bursts either allowed us But a few years ago, As a full professor of neural science, I decided to completely switch Because I encountered something with the potential to change so many lives that I had to study it. I discovered and I experienced And I did it in a completely I was actually at the height data was pouring in, I was becoming known in my field And it should have been going great. But when I stuck my head I noticed something. I had no social life. I spent too much time in a dark room, by myself. (Laughter) I didn't move my body at all. I had gained 25 pounds. And actually, it took me I was actually miserable. And I shouldn't be miserable. And I went on a river-rafting trip -- And I came back -- (Laughter) thinking, &quot;Oh, my God, And I came back with a mission. I said, &quot;I'm never going to feel on a river-rafting trip again.&quot; And that's what made me go to the gym. And I focused my type-A personality on going to all the exercise I tried everything. I went to kickbox, and at first it was really hard. But what I noticed is that after every I had this great mood boost And that's what kept me Well, I started feeling stronger. I started feeling better, And now, fast-forward a year and a half and I noticed something that really I was sitting at my desk, and a thought went through my mind that had never gone And that thought was, &quot;Gee, grant-writing is going well today.&quot; And all the scientists -- (Laughter) yeah, all the scientists because grant-writing never goes well. It is so hard; you're always trying to come up with that But I realized that because I was able for longer than I had before. And my long-term memory -- seemed to be better in me. And that's when I put it together. Maybe all that exercise was changing my brain. Maybe I did an experiment on myself So as a curious neuroscientist, I went to the literature to see about the effects And what I found was an exciting that was essentially showing everything Better mood, better energy, And the more I learned, the more I realized Which eventually to completely shift my research focus. And so now, after several years I've come to the following conclusion: that exercise is that you can do for your brain today for the following three reasons. Number one: it has A single workout that you do will immediately increase like dopamine, serotonin That is going to increase your mood exactly what I was feeling. My lab showed that a single workout can improve your ability and that focus improvement And finally, studies have shown that a single workout which basically means that you are going to be faster that falls off the counter, which is very, very important. (Laughter) But these immediate effects are transient, What you have to do is do what I did, that is change your exercise regime, to get the long-lasting effects. And these effects are long-lasting because exercise actually physiology and function. Let's start with my favorite The hippocampus -- or exercise actually new brain cells in the hippocampus, as well as improve And that including in you and me. Number two: the most common finding looking at effects of long-term exercise, is improved attention function You not only get but the volume of the hippocampus And finally, you not only get but those last for a long time. So you get long-lasting increases But really, the most transformative thing is its protective effects on your brain. Here you can think The more you're working out, the bigger and stronger your hippocampus Why is that important? Because the prefrontal cortex are the two areas that are most and normal cognitive decline in aging. So with increased exercise you're not going to cure but what you're going to do the strongest, biggest hippocampus so it takes longer for these diseases You can think of exercise, therefore, as a supercharged 401K for your brain, OK? And it's even better, because it's free. So this is the point in the talk &quot;That sounds so interesting, Wendy, but I really will only And that is, just tell me I need to get all these changes.&quot; (Laughter) And so I'm going to tell you First, good news: you don't have to become The rule of thumb is you want to get minimum 30 minutes an exercise session, and you want to get aerobic exercise in. That is, get your heart rate up. And the good news is, to get a very expensive gym membership. Add an extra walk around the block You see stairs -- take stairs. And power-vacuuming can be as good that you were going to take at the gym. So I've gone from memory pioneer to exercise explorer. From going into the innermost to trying to understand how exercise and my goal in my lab right now is to go beyond that rule of thumb three to four times a week, 30 minutes. I want to understand for you, at your age, for your genetic background, to maximize the effects of exercise today and also to improve your brain for the rest of your life. But it's one thing to talk about exercise, So I'm going to invoke my power to ask you all to stand up. (Laughter) We're going to do It's call-and-response, and make sure you don't punch Music! (Upbeat music) Five, six, seven, eight, And I say, I am strong now. Let's hear you. Audience: I am strong now. Wendy Suzuki: Ladies, Let's hear you! Audience: I am Wonder Woman-strong. WS: New move -- uppercut, right and left. I am inspired now. You say it! Audience: I am inspired now. WS: Last move -- pull it down, I say, I am on fire now! You say it. Audience: I am on fire now. WS: And done! OK, good job! (Applause) Thank you. I want to leave you with one last thought. And that is, bringing will not only give you but it will protect your brain And in this way it will change for the better. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)