This video was made possible by Hover. Get 10% off your first purchase of a custom domain by going to Hover.com/HAI. This is Daniel Radcliffe--he's most famous in some movie series whose name I forget, the dreams of tweenagers throughout the 2000s, hair that makes him look like if Harry Potter's Now some might blame a production designer but not me, because I know the real culprit: in the early 19th century. Confused? Good. To understand how this led to this, we have In April of 1815, Mount Tambora said to no you guys I did a big eruption and messed up Nobody answered, as Moana hadn't yet taught took it as a yes, and spewed out enough ash kilometers in each direction with 12 feet refer to as "a buttload." This remains the largest volcanic eruption was 100 times more powerful than the 1980 one point eight bazillion times more powerful fair project. Now, despite what the Mythbusters, the Avengers, doing explosions usually tends to have consequences, So, a normal volcanic eruption can spew dust few days, as the dust particles block the Mount Tambora did do that, but it also did it also spewed a ton of sulfur dioxide up water vapor to create sulfate aerosols, which gases, reflecting sunlight back into space worldwide by somewhere between 1 and 3 degrees but remember that so far global warming has and yet the American West already looks like Although the eruption happened in April of historians to dub it "The Year Without A teen romance tragi-comedy, but was actually widespread cold, food shortages, and death. Cold Miser's reign of terror was perhaps In New York, temperatures went below freezing the region saw 20 inches of snow; in July far south as Northwestern Pennsylvania; even will remind you, is firmly in the American 21st. Now, as any New Englander will obnoxiously a cold summer may be annoying, it won't But it turns out crops feel differently, and grains, and corn in New England made the frankly a massive price increase: oats alone went a bushel in 1816, a price hike that would While things in New England, New York, and not awesome in Regular England, Regular York, A summer of low temperatures and heavy rains years of crop yield, leading to the worst which caused Europeans to get decidedly hangry, levels of European violence since the French What about Asia, you ask? Well, things there were actually pretty good, China saw a massive famine, tropical Taiwan disrupted, leading to huge floods in the Yangtze to an enormous cholera outbreak. Now, of course, the death and destruction let's be honest, it's hardly that surprising; if you assume that the result of any major died," you're almost always right. But like the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts' Austrian boy, the Year Without a Summer had Many believe that the miserable summer in west to more fertile land, directly contributing indirectly contributing to the use of the Military experts claim that the cold, rainy loss at Waterloo, and thus indirectly, the Because the oat shortages made it harder to named Karl Drais was inspired to develop a bicycle, and thus indirectly led to everyone about Lance Armstrong and those little yellow And finally, the cold, rainy, miserable summer to vacation indoors in a mansion near Lake write the scariest story, Mary Shelley produced in 2015, would be turned into an adaptation Radcliffe, for which he was forced to get after a makeover. And that, my friends, is what we call a payoff. Somebody should have stopped Daniel Radcliffe from getting that hairdo--and probably the best way to do it would have been with a website; maybe something like hairdopotter.com. Well great news: that domain is available right now on hover.com. Hover makes domains easy, with classic extensions like .com .org and .net, to the more exotic .earth .casino or even .vodka. And here's some great news: even if you're not in the market for a website, you can set up a custom email account; just think of how cool you'll sound sending your Daniel Radcliffe fanmail from @radcliffe.vodka. For award-winning customer support, and over 400 options for domain extensions, head to hover.com/hai to get 10% your domain, set up your website, and stop Daniel Radcliffe from making any more terrible mistakes. from @radcliffe.vodka. For award-winning customer support, and over 400 options for domain extensions, head to hover.com/hai to get 10% your domain, set up your website, and stop Daniel Radcliffe from making any more terrible mistakes.