There's no question that Programming is a hot In fact, Labour Statistics have predicted the next decade, which is four times the Even the median salary of a Programmer is three we understand that venturing into the field of for professionals with no prior experience. So, if because we have you covered. Here, we are with a learn in the year 2021. Now, understand that this order. Also, this list does not even claim to be So, feel free to leave us your suggestions in the and don't forget to hit that bell icon, to never So without much to do let's get started. First Programming Language which has been the It is Open-Sourced and mainly used for developing Now, 79 percent of all websites whose Server-Side and some of the major players who have used PHP Now, PHP is simple, fast and platform independent has a community of 5.9 million to back it up, off their career by learning this language. Now, are CakePHP, Laravel, Symfony and Phalcon and companies on the lookout for PHP Developers offering an in India. Next up on our list is the R Programming specializes in Mathematical Computations. That is Now as technology progresses forward the data gets more and more and more complex. Now R has been language of choice to analyze Data. Now R is not compatibility a huge community as well as more Now major highlights of this language, apart from create interactive Web Apps and a huge library of as an R Programmer or as an R Professional you or 7LPA in India, from companies Moving up on our list we have Dart. Now Dart is by Google. Used for both Server-Side and Browser- a portion of their code base with other platforms, Dart you can write a single app which would work the scale is where it allows code sharing using simple to use, easy to learn, Iterative Programming its sister framework Flutter, Dart has completely foot into the door of many companies, including Google for salaries as high as 154,000 USD or we have GoLang. Now, modern applications require applications rely on correctness, communication and core concerns for GoLang and not just an added and a compiled Programming language, but it feels And it has a budding community with this Programming language may be new to the game and Revel in its backpack. Major companies are Springboard and Walmart, offering salaries as Next on our list we have C#. Now C# is an easy to a lot of the new features for developing secure, applications. It makes compilation and execution with frameworks like Microsoft.Net and Xamarin to community of over 670,000 GitHub Repositories, especially in the field of Game Development Engine. Now this language has a lot of popularity are hiring highly skilled C# Developers and 10 LPA in India. These companies including but Next on our list we have SQL. Structured Query is a special purpose Programming works by analysing and understanding different companies cannot do without it. In fact a lot version of a High Performance Database Systems it has over 260,000 GitHub Repositories with the popularity of a lot of the new languages when Major players in the market such Facebook are hiring at an average salary Next on our list we have C and C++, most by learning either C or C plus plus. These two now despite the age both of these languages in spite of the number of quality alternatives 1/5 of the entire market on the modern day. them up and to boast and there have been on both of these Programming languages, a which have been developed using C and you also using C plus plus. Now companies such as HP, Wipro, plus plus developers at an average salary Next on our list we have Java. In modern times Java and it is probably due to its ability to fast and serve a lot of different purposes. It It boasts a strong memory management, high compatibility. It is also cross platform compatible Hibernate, Spring and Strut. Now Java also boasts GitHub Repositories, now as a Java Developer you 11 Lakhs average in India from very reputed Moving up on our list we have JavaScript. Now, JavaScript is that you want to become a Web set on a tech career, learning JavaScript and being from scratch, which is a pretty useful skill to a number of different frameworks from Node.js to list doesn't just end there. Now, being proficient with a number of opportunities from companies with salaries up to 117,000 US dollars or JavaScript boasts a robust community featuring Finally at the end of our list we have Python. highly versatile Programming language which finds Web Development and many other cutting edge seasoned professionals to learn. Now, Python boasts and applications such as Google's App Fedora's Anaconda Installer. Now, it boasts a Repositories and a median salary in the US No wonder that companies such as Cisco, IBM, are all using Python, owing to its elegance list of Top 10 Programming Languages Now, there are a few more Programming languages talking about HTML, CSS, Julia, CUDA, Kotlin, Swift and Programming languages and upskill your career, Training Program fully equipped with a structured is one of the fastest growing e-learning platforms professional education. My name is Upasana and