There's a reason your brain likes to to show you why - and three steps to stop the third one is what really makes you life. So full disclosure: Sometimes sometimes I write videos for a client that I have And this video is the latter. So I grew up in unbearably rude, and if someone did something you used defensive weapon. And it's a mental habit In my early 20s I lived in Argentina for 18 at the time was an Argentine, and sometimes we I was just learning Spanish and there were a lot said, &quot;Solo estoy intentando sportarte,&quot; which I But what I actually said was, &quot;I'm just trying charm I did not make her future bridesmaid short you've gained a lot of weight, haven't you?&quot; she said, &quot;And you take offense very easily,&quot; needless to say, it was a difficult three months things personally secretly feels really good, it makes you insecure, isolated, and pretty angry and fragile at the same time does not lend I am making progress in this area. Taking offense relational strategy. It's something you're doing for you. You get something out of it. But it often that it happens to you. And that's in part pretty primitive survival reactions that fire fight/flight/freeze response. Taking offense is up. Here's an example between two characters called Modern Family. &quot;Hey, I think I'm going sure.&quot; &quot;Oh, I get it. Message received.&quot; So slow it down. Step one: You assume someone say as an attack. They're threatening your character, or your abilities. So &quot;You must think I'm fat. You must think that I'm I'm not attractive. That is so rude of you. How things personally happens when you mind read what they are attacking you. You feel threatened. a lesser-evolved defense mechanism. You try to two: You try to protect yourself by labeling the the innocent victim. You're trying to protect to control them while also blaming them, but make you look like you're not quite so innocent. that's how you create this lovely, vindicating term. &quot;I didn't say anything.&quot; So examples of this are the silent someone by cleaning loudly, uh calling your vindicating. &quot;Look at me. I'm the victim here. defend your fragile sense of self. But this always continue your sense of insecurity and isolation, drama. You continue to overthink the problem. You the way you're responding is not making things immature defense mechanism. It's an attempt but it backfires. You're avoiding being assertive. or listening to the other person. Um it's poor what you can't control, which is what other other people walking on eggshells around you. constructive criticism, which can help you learn but instead you're putting up this like fragile minute right now and think about the last time why did you take offense? Where did you learn to the secondary gains of taking things personally? an internal sense of safety. So there are three to step number one: Clarity. Okay. We are going there are facts, and then there's the story that our emotions. So with my Hermana in Argentina, why would you insult me by telling me how fat I where being fat is shamed and telling people Argentina, I learned that culturally commenting on it's a sign of closeness. I had people comment not in particularly flattering ways. They were insulting me,&quot; I felt offended. And when my story deal. It was just like a way to connect. We make Um if you've been hurt or mistreated in the past in the present. So let's say someone honks at you. me? Am I a bad driver? No, I'm a great driver. They are such a jerk.&quot; When in reality, maybe horn when they bent over to pick it up. Or maybe of their van and they just really need to get to ourselves and our fragile egos, when in reality, because they feel insecure themselves. People they're traumatized or they're socially oblivious trying to control everyone else and force them so there's two important things when it comes to evidence that they are threatening your sense of your own insecurities on them. And then number feel insecure. So our insecurity is about us. What &quot;You're a banana,&quot; you're not going to take true. You're very confident that you are not if someone hints that maybe you're not a good you'll take it personally. So here's what to do yourself down. Close your mouth. Take a breath. just get curious. Like other people do not see the &quot;Huh, I wonder what's going on for them that's instead of your crappy defense mechanism of taking you clarify what you're saying?&quot; Right? And in the a wise friend about what your stories are. So if that you are sensitive about your appearance, then &quot;Oh, she's judging my appearance.&quot; Those are the we think about what other people say. Okay. Step I mean knowing where the other person ends and you know what is on your side of it, and you the biggest mental undy-bundle that we all get jerk?&quot; And then we either reactively take offense our own head going in circles trying to figure simple. You have two choices: It's not about me, who takes offense when offense was not intended is intended is an even greater fool.&quot; So number awful. If someone really is attacking you, it's they're sleep deprived or stressed out. People not because their kids are bad kids. Some better or they're unaware of your needs. So when it's usually about them, not you. So the strategy person is poor boundaries because it's not your neighbor mows their lawn. So instead of trying to others to like you or treat you in a certain way, agree with you or act correctly, and that's okay. inferior without your consent.&quot; But here comes the do need to improve? What if I'm not doing a good struggle with low self-esteem are more likely to and you may try to create safety by defending this is like a shell of feeling offended, covering of fear of abandonment, fear of never being good in your assumptions. So what's going on here is external changes, changing the other person aggressive. So let's replace that external attempt of self. So this is where Brene Brown comes in Can you ask, &quot;Is there something I can improve?&quot; instead of inspect yourself. You're trying to that armor around doesn't actually make you truly do one of two things. They either shake it off &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;Lose some weight.&quot; Hey, man, you're a pounds, and I can be kind of thick sometimes.&quot; instead of one person being the jerk and the other have a part. But we're only responsible for our world to stop hurting your feelings, and instead control. So my favorite exercise for this is using into two parts. And on the one side you're going other side, &quot;What I can't control.&quot; And on this the punky things that the other person is doing side what you can control. Here's all the things better friend. I can, you know, choose to eat a okay? And it's easy to start being like, &quot;Well, and I wouldn't have done this if they hadn't really important part. If you start getting your or is he the bad one? Am I or is he the?&quot; Right? going to tear it right down the middle, you're to crumple it up, you're going to throw it in to focus on your half of the paper. Okay. That's open to feedback. They seek every opportunity to here's what's wrong about you, you can just that takes us to building a solid foundation of you're insecure. You're defending yourself because So instead of putting energy toward that weak that energy toward building a solid foundation for like 20 videos, but I'm going to give you Stop trying to control other people by making be nice to me. We're going to switch that to an want to be? What kind of character do I value? I should ask myself what kind of partner do I want tidy, whatever it is, whatever your values are, toward being that person instead of trying to soon as you pivot away from, &quot;He needs to stop change anything?&quot; the drama like melts away. These you can't change, and you change the one that you people think of us, we are always on shaky ground. want to be and we work toward that, we feel more that person. Like perfectionism will never make curious and you want to be growth-oriented and you working toward being more consistent, um I'll feel toward your valued direction, that's your sign a human being. Okay. So now we've talked about personally and how to replace that crappy defense here's what to do on a practical level. So let's take it personally, in the short term, close your Buy yourself some time. You could say something interesting&quot; or &quot;Can you say that again?&quot; or &quot;Hmm, you're going to use assertive communication. You someone's intentions or their meanings, and you drama. So this is also the part where you take the or should I let it go? And that's where writing term, an internal sense of security comes from be. You're so certain of who you are that care about other people's feedback, but only clarified your values and you've put your three steps you can learn to drop your crappy and you can replace it with a truly solid sense helped make this channel possible. Whitney Laurel Newman, Tami Laughlin, Kimberly Mansingh,