Let me help you Thank you for upgrading me. Sorry, this is a first class ticket. I didn't upgrade you. Yeah Don't you know Xu Siyu? Sorry I don't know What would you like to drink Just like him. Good lady Thanks I now understand Siyu helped me with it. It's not a free upgrade at all She said that I'm just afraid of hurting my self-esteem. To make me feel at ease Accept her kindness If I and Siyu Not studying at the same university in Paris Maybe we will never meet again in this life. I study hard I got the opportunity to study abroad My father sold everything he had to support me To make dad less tired I have to work several jobs every day. I can barely afford my living expenses And her father He is a well-known investment tycoon in the domestic investment community. She went to every corner of the world She seems to have her own house. But she will also be like other girls of the same age To worry about many things Money is the only thing in her life. The only thing you don't have to worry about Even though she and I are at opposite ends of life But she respects me very much She made me realize Educated background What it looks like It also makes me understand I have to work harder Only then can she silently help me with everything Same as before Give it back to her in another way Thank you Excuse me Another drink, thanks. Excuse me In recent years, I All in Europe Domestic entertainment situation I don't really understand Did you debut recently? Are you a singer or a filmmaker? Where did you go when you went out? There are paparazzi against you. A random shot The next day it was on the headlines I'll definitely hire a bodyguard too. You mean these paparazzi? Do you think these people are idle? Sorry, sorry. Let's take a photo together. Although I don't know who you are now But I can leave a souvenir I'll know who it is later. I'll tell others I used to take the same flight with you. Hurry up! Hurry up! Hurry up! Hurry up! Please sign my name. Thanks What are you doing? I'm going to get off the plane. I'm going to call for help now and tell them you guys are kidnapping me Do you know what the consequences are? Know Then you shout loudly You are awesome, you are the best I'll go back with you. Hi I just drank too much on the plane I couldn't control myself I'm causing you trouble. I'm sorry Have you been kidnapped? Do I need you to call the police? Excuse me, Miss. This is my business card I am the head of the security department of the Ou Group. Jiang Yilong This is Ouyang, the vice president of our group. We were just following his father's instructions. Bring Him Home I'm sorry. Misunderstand Misunderstanding Sorry for disturbing you. It's so embarrassing. Hey Xiaozhe I'm on my way out I'll come out after I get my luggage. Look how happy you are Slow down. Don't be in a hurry. Yes Okay, okay, slow down. Okay, see you later. Passengers on Flight 738 Please note Your flight is now boarding Please board the aircraft via Gate 7 sister Thanks sister Chen Zhe I miss you so much Come come come I miss you as well I fantasize about this moment every day I want to see you every day Come back to you quickly Isn't this back? Let's go quickly What's wrong I want to see you Let's go home Thinking of Rain Already received it I'm in the car now What about him Let me take a look OK Chen Zhe I didn't see Take another look Good good good I'll tell him Siyu wants to say hello to you Hi Chen Zhe Hi I'm telling you You should be nicer to our Meiya You dare to treat her badly? I'll settle the score with you Did you hear that? That's fine. I won't disturb your world of two. He is easily shy. Go go go Bye-Bye Bye-Bye Hello Why are you so serious? We are in a meeting. right Then I say you just listen I can't accompany you today Ouyang is back Have a meal with the whole family OK, I know. Okay, then you go to the meeting. Bye. Bye-Bye Who? Work I guess it's work. Men at work Are they all so handsome? Oh, that's where I was talking about. I was interrupted by Siyu's call. right I met someone on the plane Do you know about Ou Shi Group? That cosmetics brand I'm on the plane Met the son of the boss of Ou Group He sat next to me Don't mention it. At first, many people surrounded him. I thought he was a star. As a result, when I got off the plane The bodyguards Stand up with a bang Carry him and walk forward I saw this as kidnapping. People like me I'll catch up I just want to help him Results I was given a business card. I realized it was a misunderstanding. I almost called the police. It's embarrassing, so don't mention it. Chairman and wife They're waiting for you at home. Your sister will also come home for dinner Can you give me the phone? Sorry I followed the chairman's orders. Samsung Voice Assistant calls mom Hey Mom Got Ouyang. On the way home Goodbye When you met me at the exit just now Have you seen a woman She looks pretty good. The face is too long I'm very far away from her I felt the chill Have you felt No I'm telling you That must be his family. I saw them together. It's scary I always thought that rich people No worries. I didn't expect it It's true that every family has its own problems. What's the matter? What are you looking at? Finally saw the real person I'll sign your name again. It turns out that the beauty company my mentor recommended to me was O'Sullivan Group I am the head of the security department of the Ou Group. Jiang Yilong This is Ouyang, the vice president of our group. Let's take a photo together. Although I don't know who you are now But I can leave a souvenir I'll know who it is later. I'll tell others I've been on the same plane with you before. Hurry up! Hurry up! Oh my god Finished Ou Group is so big Even if I go to work at Ou Group I stay in the lab every day. I definitely won't see that thing. Ouyang Besides People must have forgotten about this matter. He certainly won't remember. interview Diploma Let me help you It's over. It's over. Please sign my name. Thanks so much I didn't mean to see your little secret. I have to confirm who you are, right? You will forgive me, right? Chen Zhe Life in France is tough. I miss you so much I am every moment every minute every second I'm thinking about you I wish I could hug you right now Can come back to you what to do Azhe What should Zhezhe do? I'm going crazy I'm going crazy What to do? what to do This is too exciting. I love you What a clear and solid faith I love you What a warm and brave force I don't care how sad or anxious love is No matter what others think Love is a force Take me to your side Talent, oh my god Copy the lyrics I was beaten so badly. I've never seen anyone beaten so badly. So pitiful Eleven thousand seven hundred The distance is 39.17 kilometers I can't stop missing you Three years without you Twenty years of mutual support cannot be reduced Twenty years of mutual support cannot be reduced Xiaozhe I'm coming back Marry you wait for me Twenty years How old are you? Hit him Ouyang, you are so stupid How do I How can there be someone as stupid as you in this world? Too depressed Pity or not Don't look at it. Don't look at it. Don't look at it. Don't look at it. Dear friends in the circle of friends My buddy is on the plane today. I took the wrong box with a woman This woman's name is Lin Meiya Returned from studying in Paris To be with her boyfriend of 20 years, Chen Zhe marry About the age when this girl started her early love I was also very curious Attached are three photos Whoever finds this woman will be rewarded handsomely. Talent dad Did you see the dress I wore yesterday? I washed it. Xiaoya is back Back Aunt Yang Dad, before you wash my clothes Did you search your pockets? I have a business card in my pocket. Did you see What kind of business card? Haven't seen it. What's wrong nothing I'm on the plane. I took the wrong box from a man named Ouyang. His bodyguard gave me a business card I have to find someone now Can I get my box back? Wrong box. you do not say All my important documents are in there. Why did his bodyguard give you his business card? It's just a misunderstanding Okay, Dad. Don't bother with it. I can solve it myself The box is lost Not lost I took the wrong one. Teacher Wang Try the freshly mixed acid Come come come You eat this, you eat this I'll mix another one for you. Li Dong Hurry up and collect the plates outside I'll go to the second floor Good to know, Aunt Mei Xiao Liu All the clean dishes in a moment Put all in the disinfection cabinet for disinfection Remember it well no problem I'll leave this to you. I'll go outside. OK Welcome Please walk slowly, both of you. Welcome to visit us next time Li Dong I'm leaving first Okay, Uncle Liang, you're done eating. Take care Hello, who Who am I? I said where did you go? How come you're back? Paris is calling me now The game is about to start You old man is so funny to disappear The phone is also turned off What's your situation? Don't mention it This time I went out to tour the competition I haven't contacted the old man for half a year. The old man is in a hurry Sent a group of people to Paris to bring me back. What can I do? No matter how good I am at fighting, I can't stand up to a group of people Chase me all day in Paris A bunch of dog-skin plasters that can't be thrown off With your half day On the streets of Paris A blockbuster that stands out from the crowd You have this day too Why are you so noisy over there? I can't hear what you said I was wondering why it's so noisy over there? Don't forget today is Monday I'm at the Li's Old Shop Today is Monday You said you are really interesting. The sole heir to billions of assets I have to go to the old store every Monday Serve as a servant There's nothing we can do about it. Don't forget My grandfather This small shop made my fortune. There is no such old store How could there be What is the situation of our Li Group today? This is the rule set by grandpa. The old shop must be passed on So Whether you are the eldest son of the Li family Or the heir to the entire group? Without exception Come to the store every Monday Washing dishes and serving as a waiter The purpose is to not forget the roots and remember the bitterness and sweetness Do you understand? I'm not as lucky as you. you say Your father's company How many times have you, Master Ou, been there? Don't mention the company to me. I get annoyed when I mention it Who is this girl? Ex-Girlfriend Where did you find it? In the drawer Xiao Liu Turn around and go home That's right I'm not here this time How is the club's performance? What else can I do? The whole army was wiped out What did I say? It really won't work without me. Come on Don't brag to me. Every time you go there, you are asking for trouble. But this time I'm glad you didn't win the game. Do you know why? So that you don't have to come back with a bruised face. I have to hide in my house to recover. I have to make up lies for you. Otherwise, your parents always think You went out to pick up girls. I just don't understand Why are you so twisted? This combat sport It's not something shameful. Why can't you Let your family know. You're still talking about me What about you and my sister? Obviously they both don't like each other But they pretended to be together because of their parents' orders Just talk about that matter. Are you tired? I said one thing and you talked about another Why don't you bring up something that's not relevant? I'm telling you on the phone Don't mention your sister to me. I was troubled by it. Okay, I'm busy. Did you have meal If you haven't eaten, come and see me. I have a busy day. OK I'll go over after I finish my exercise. wait for me Okay, we'll be waiting for you. Ouyang Where is the wrong box you took? In my room Deleted yesterday's circle of friends I'll help you find your box. How can you help me find Chen Zhe is the sales manager of our company I went to your room and took the box away. What a coincidence How is it, Mr. Yuan? Then you have time Come to our sales department to inspect the work I dare not inspect the work. I just want to ask you, kid. recently Are you so happy that your heart is blooming? Don't tell us Do you want to wait for someday? Give us a surprise What are you talking about? Are you kidding me? Didn't you always say you don't have a girlfriend? We have been in love for almost 20 years. People come from far away Fly back to marry you Speaking from the heart I'm so envious What are you talking about? Reinstall Pretend to be more like I really don't know I tell you Your girlfriend On the plane back Mr. Ou from our company took the wrong box. Last night Ouyang posted a circle of friends I'm a friend. Took a screenshot and sent it to me Take a look Isn't this you? What? Get on this car. No, what are you going to do? I have something to do now, I need to go out I want to drive my own car No need for you to send it Excuse me The chairman ordered I ask you to start today Must go to work every day Even if I get up late When should I wake up? When to go Feel sorry This is all in accordance with the chairman's orders. Going to work in the company, right? OK, I'll go now. Please let me go and drive myself That won't work. The chairman ordered I must take you there myself. What should I do with my car? I have to stop back. Need not I'll arrange for someone to handle it. Are you convinced? If you let go, I will obey Pretty good at fighting Fighting It's not something that can be mastered in a day or two. We are all children's skills Practiced since childhood It's already in your blood. No tricks are better than tricks, right? So the moves you practiced In my eyes, it's all childish Don't show off in front of me anymore. So that I won't hurt you What are those moves I practiced? What do you know Don't worry My mouth is tight You fight free-boxing I won't tell anyone. 7 Hello, how can I help you? Hello, I'm here to see Ouyang. I took the wrong box with him on the plane I'll come to him to change the box Excuse me Even if you really took the wrong box You won't find him here. We work here every day. I can see him once a year. It's already pretty good That won't work. Important materials I need for interview It's all in the box I can't find him I can't go to the interview. Do you think this will work? Please give me Ouyang's phone number. Or his bodyguard. His bodyguard gave me a phone number before But I'm sorry I lost it. What's it called? l I'm so sorry Since your question involves privacy We can't help you, sorry. I'm really not a liar This box is indeed Ouyang's. He is not all over the world A free-fighting match? There is a video here I've seen it, it's really him Absolutely impossible to be wrong If you don't believe it I will What are you yelling about? Come back to the office with me. It's okay, my friend Gone Mr. Ou's friend It can't be a girlfriend. This is hard to say. To the side What? You're blocking people. What were you yelling about at the front desk? What video of mine did you watch? Of course, you have to make sure Who is the owner of the box? You have a lot of mess in here. I don't understand what it is. Shouldn't I dig it out and study it? So what have you researched? I haven't researched anything else. But I really feel sorry for your face. You said you look good, right? Human-like Not bad looking Being punched left and right One foot left, one foot right My face is so swollen. I really think you're being upset. Why? How old are you? XXIII Twenty years of mutual support Started dating at the age of three Okay, you're precocious enough. Look at my diary Lin Meiya, right? I tell you If you dare to put my game video Leaked Your photos Your Diary And all your secrets I will put it online without reservation You don't have to spend a penny on advertising Definitely on the hot search Including your Chen Zhe I was puzzled. Your Chen Zhe works in our company. Sales Manager You don't go directly to him. What are you yelling about at the front desk? What did you say? Chen Zhe Working in your company Or Sales Manager You don't even know where your boyfriend works. You don't even know Haven't we been in love for twenty years? I don't know this. Is it your business? One hand over the box, one hand over the box Come to my box Get it I haven't seen my box yet. I have to check first to see if anything is missing. Take away Take away Got it Go back Where to go back Someone will deliver the box to you later. Are you arguing with me? All my valuables I'm in this box. How would I know that my box is with you? Safe or not Hurry up and bring the box. Where's your box? It should be in my house now. But I really can't give it to you now It doesn't matter I see you're not very busy. I am also free today Let me go home with you and take it real Then you deal with him first. If you could take me away from here today I'll hang out with you from now on Mr. Ou can't go anywhere today. Must work here all day I was tied to work. I want to leave here more than you do. Your family's affairs have nothing to do with me. I don't understand either Don't tell me, I don't want to know. Call your family Bring the box over. I'm waiting here I said, are you done yet? Didn't I already call? They hung up Now it's inconvenient for them That's inconvenient, I can't give you this box now. Do you understand? so You promise me You must not disclose my privacy in case Let's record a video as evidence. Say it to the camera. What are you doing? I dialed my number Now you have my phone number I have your phone number too. so what Go back Waiting for news Why should I believe you? You support each other My boyfriend of 20 years, Chen Zhe Working in our company I'm his boss. Just based on this You should believe me too You're his boss, what's wrong? I tell you Our Chen Zhe is very outstanding Don't think you are his boss. You can threaten me If we are not happy, we can stop doing it. We can change jobs, do you understand? I'm going back first Waiting for your call Wait Please go back. goodbye Who is that girl who just went out? No one You took the wrong box. Come and change it. Also eat lollipops Throw away Come with me and get to know the company Chen Zhe If I hadn't received your call today I might not be able to hold on. The landlord was upset because I was cooking in the house. Kicked me out It's pouring rain outside I have no place to go I think I'm going to freeze to death. The streets of a foreign land But at that time You called me I didn't tell you about my situation. But your voice gives me strength My whole body seemed to be in an instant Warm up Hello Hello, I want to look for Chen Zhe. You are our CEO Chen's girlfriend, Lin Meiya, right? yes Come with me and I'll take you in. Thanks Mr. Chen's girlfriend Mr. Chen's girlfriend What are you doing? What are you doing? In the office Xiaozhe How about it Have you not eaten yet? These are the ones you like to eat How come you are here? How did you know I work here? Why are you so nervous? no How did you know I work here? Eat one and I'll tell you Stop joking and tell me Do you eat one? I didn't have time to tell you last night. I found out last night I'm with that Ouyang I took the wrong box on the plane. I'll come to your company to ask him to change the box. He was the one who told me you worked here. When did you come to work here? Why haven't you ever told me this? And just now when I came in Found your colleagues Seems like everyone knows me Do you have nothing to do every day? He always showed them my photos. Tell me what they said. Did they tell me I was good-looking? Do you want to know Why do they know you? Because Ouyang yesterday Your photo my photo And the diaries you wrote I took photos and posted them on WeChat Moments True or false What is true or false? The whole company is laughing at us now. Take it out and let me see it Just send it out. There's nothing shameful between us. We're both going to get married sooner or later. I think Tell your colleagues this way Our wedding I think it's good. I'm satisfied. My dad told me last night Let's get married quickly. Go to France right after you get married. I was rejected I told him very clearly I'm not going anywhere this time when I come back He's still angry. Xiaozhe, why don't we get married first? Xiaoya How about making him happy? Xiaoya I think You should also go back to Europe first | stop Why are you saying the same thing as my dad? I'll say it again This time I come back I won't go anywhere anymore Don't say such things to me again. Don't forget You'll have to accompany me to the Northern Shooting Range later. Eat another one Your scenery is quite good. Xiaoya If you're okay, go back first. I have a meeting later. Then I won't bother you anymore. I'll go back first. Then will you come back for dinner tonight? It'll be open quite late. You guys eat first. Then I really have to leave hug So many people saw it Who doesn't fall in love? Hurry up, I won't leave unless you hug me. hurry up hurry up Good good good Okay, okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Zhezhe Okay, okay, okay. Remember to eat the food I bought for you. Good, good, go, go Then I really went back Okay, okay. Okay, go ahead. Right, right, right I forgot everything Here's a bag of food. I bought it for your colleague. I'll send it to them. No, it's not me, Mia No need for me to give it to them. Okay, get busy. Get busy with your work. I'm leaving Miya Miya Hello, Hello I am Lin Meiya I brought you some food today. Thank you for taking care of Xiaozhe. I heard him say you guys always work overtime Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. You're welcome. Excuse me, I have to take a call first. Hello, Dad No, I haven't changed it back yet. OK, I know. I won't say anymore. Sent it to you guys? You're welcome There's a little left If any of you are hungry Who will eat it themselves? Our family runs a food stall My dad's fried crayfish I tell you it's a very special fragrance If you get off work early someday Must be Xiaozhe Take you to our food stall to eat If not I can just pack it and send it to you. Then I'll leave and won't disturb your work. Bye-Bye goodbye Bye-Bye Xiaozhe goodbye But at that time You called me I didn't tell you about my situation. But your voice gives me strength My whole body seemed to be in an instant Warm up Chen Zhe Do you have something to explain to me? I think this matter There's no need to explain to you Like I said before Lin Meiya is my ex-girlfriend But we've broken up The two of us Grew up together in an orphanage Her adoptive father is very good to me. So the two of us Later, it was natural for them to be together. But then everyone got older. She went to Europe again The relationship gradually became distant. We broke up two years ago. This is a fact I know She has always had some thoughts about me I don't know why. but This is her one-sided wishful thinking. Who do I like now? Don't you understand? What is this You'll know when you open it. Whatever you see in there I broke up with her two years ago. Chen Zhe I'll give you time Please take a close look at this diary. Think carefully about how to explain it to me. It just so happens that Lin Meiya Not just one thing How much do you pay? She recorded every day It's all because of other people's kindness to her. You don't want to tell me Is she a spoiled person? Or do you want to tell me The time difference between here and there From six hours to two years I admit that I still care about her a little But this kind of concern is more of a It's a kind of intolerance It is a sympathy We two grew up together. Dependence on each other This feeling is It is a family, a kind of affection I just can't bear it. The family is so determined I originally thought She went to Europe | You'll meet another man I'll stay there and work. Anyway I handled this matter incorrectly. I will fix it good This diary is for you Her suitcase is in my car. These two things You give it back to her. I'll give you time I believe you can handle this matter. Is it right Mr. Ou is here This little shop is really prosperous. Mr. Li cooks in person, which is admirable. Mr. Li cooks in person, which is admirable. Stinky You don't tell me You were kidnapped by your father and taken to the company Can't come out? I'm telling you I'm accompanying the old man. Visited the company for an afternoon She appears to be quite well behaved and sensible. Agreed to let me out Let me move freely But I tell you I won't wash dishes with you here What happened to washing dishes? Working people are the most glorious I'm telling you You have to come to my place often. It's time to gain popularity and get in touch with the people. Do you know Sit outside Today you took time out of your busy schedule to come and visit us What do you want to eat? Whatever you have Not picking today Give you generous Don't eat for free, you have to pay for it, okay? Must buy Waiting dad I'm back Potato brother, you are really a powerful potato So what do you think? Welcome Lijia Old Restaurant Specialties Braised pork elbow in red sauce Try it What are you looking at? Did you listen to me calling out the dishes? What's the meaning I want to try it there. Come on Their house is dirtier than yours. I will never eat at a place like that in my life. I'm telling you Ouyang Don't look down on people Their home is not only not dirty and messy And the taste It is one of the best in this old street. Uncle Lin cooking I've been on this street for more than ten years. First-class craftsmanship, especially good people We are close friends regardless of age The one wearing the yellow T-shirt It's his daughter. Just came back from studying abroad Now I'm helping him but She is an orphan He was adopted by Uncle Lin. They are on this street. I have been running this shop for ten years. It's not easy to go through ups and downs Do you feel This girl looks very pure Especially beautiful Brother, what do you think? What's my vision? Weren't you looking over there just now? Have you been watching for a long time? I'm telling you You are not allowed to hit on girls Anyone can do it, but she can't. I'll go with you and order some crayfish. Still possible Big Brother You think my aesthetic is the same as yours? Open this restaurant on this old street Stuck in the aesthetics of the last century Uncle Wang and Aunt Wang Come on, Uncle Wang, I'm here Come on, slow down, slow down Come on, it's okay, it's okay Come on, please slow down, Aunt Wang Okay This world Fast update Some old taste, old shop For people It will be extra precious Let me give you an example. If you always ate at the same restaurant when you were a kid I'm used to eating But suddenly one day you find that this store is gone. I dismantled it and can't find it. You will seem particularly lonely This kind of loneliness It seems that I was Like being abandoned suddenly So the old shop must have The old taste needs to be passed on Sitting in the old shop Enjoy the old taste This is a unique sense of security This is a kind of Abandoned sense of security So you come to our Li's old restaurant for dinner. They are all old neighbors. I really envy you. I don't know what the old taste is. for me The old taste may be Our chef's dishes Waiter Waiter Garlic Okay, okay, here I come Your garlic I don't want this peeled one. To be a head of garlic good Potato Brother I forgot to buy garlic today. Xiaoya Go borrow two from your uncle Li. Okay Please wait a moment good I'll come Sorry, I'll be back soon. Uncle Li Can you lend me two heads of garlic? It's the kind that's in a head and not peeled. Look at how popular your business is. The garlic is all used up. Wait for uncle to bring it to you Okay What do you do? It's really you I also want to ask you You didn't follow me all the way here, did you? I follow you I've been hanging out on this street since I was a kid. Did you see it? That's our store I follow you Excuse me Do you two know each other? Unknown Miya You want garlic Oh my god, Uncle Li This is too much. I'll just take the two ends back. Okay, put them all in there. Don't be a guest with me. A few heads of garlic are not worth much Your father and I are close friends regardless of age. Since you call me Uncle Li Why are you being polite to your uncle? I call you Uncle Li because of my dad. You really think of me as your uncle. How can there be an uncle as young as you? Thank you You're welcome What is the situation I'm with this weirdo I took the wrong box on the plane back from abroad She came to my company and asked me for it. I just feel weird. How come I run into her everywhere? You two still have this fate? What fate? I said you were staring at that place for a long time. Why didn't you say so earlier? What fate? You didn't see my post on WeChat Moments? Uncle Li What happened to Mia? To thank you for lending me garlic A bowl of crayfish is not a sign of respect Eat whatever you want If it's not enough, I'll ask my dad to cook it. Who told you to eat it? Didn't you say you can eat whatever you want? I let Uncle Li eat whatever he wants. Did I let you eat whatever you want? You give it to Uncle Li I'm your uncle Li's friend. Your uncle Li will naturally give it to your uncle Ou. Right, she is Uncle Li Where's your bodyguard? Don't you have bodyguards following you all the time? Can't go home? I find you are quite lenient. It's none of your business whether my bodyguard follows me or not. Of course it's none of my business But my box is my business. Since your bodyguard didn't follow you I'll go home with you to get the box. Didn't I say that? Wait till I get the box. I'll call you. What are you in a hurry for? stop Wait till you get the box You call me My box is not in your hands. Where is my box? I tell you Ouyang All my stuff is in that box. The box and its contents It's very important to me. If you lose my box What? What do you want? You want to hit me, right? Come come come Hit, hit, hit here Maybe you don't know yet Some videos in your box I made a backup copy. You don't mean Let the whole world see some people The look of being beaten so hard that he cried for his parents Who is crying for his parents? I tell you If you dare to send the video You'll never get your box. Two It's hot, please be patient. Both of you are my friends so Give Uncle Li some face After Ouyang finished eating the crayfish Can we have a good chat again? Since you are Uncle Li's friend Then I'll give Uncle Li some face. But I want to ask Uncle Li to help me as a witness Ouyang Lin Meiya's box must be returned as soon as possible Otherwise I will upload the video good Uncle Li's testimony is as good as gold Ouyang At the fastest speed Return Lin Meiya's box to her Okay? Miya Before Ouyang returns the box to you Please save this video and don't let it leak out. Just to give Uncle Li some face Do you think it's ok? OK I believe you, Uncle Li. Waiting for your call Thank you crayfish Eat whatever you want If it's not enough, my dad will fry it for you. I can't eat this weird thing. The problem is Your Video She really saw it Freshly fried meatballs Don't let it cool down. Eat it while it's hot. Potato Brother good What would you like to order? Hello You finished the meeting. Let's have dinner together later. Booked a western restaurant What other western restaurants are we going to eat at? Quite expensive Come back and eat. I'll ask my dad to fry it for you. Your favorite braised prawns Spicy crayfish with scrambled eggs and chives My mouth is watering, Xiaoya Table 5, get a beer Okay, I won't tell you anymore. I have to be busy Waiting for you to come back quickly Have a great time Really authentic Or I'll order two for you. Enough, full. This is the soda you want. This is added uncle Xiaozhe is here, hurry in You are back Your box My Box How come my box is here with you? This Ouyang is really I won't give you the box. Isn't this kidding me? I have to check All my information and documents But they're all in the box. The most important thing is My diary is also in here. And the most important This box was given to me by Siyu. I can't lose it. Look at her Still like a child Let's eat quickly You eat quickly I'll put the box here so it's out of the way. Boy friend This man was dragging the suitcase just now. Miya's boyfriend We grew up together as orphans. I know This Chen Zhe I work in the sales department of our company. We have been together for twenty years. Chen Zhe works in your company Your employees This is your favorite food Spicy Crayfish How does it taste? Thank you uncle Uncle, please come and eat. Stop doing it. You guys eat first. There are two tables of guests who need to cook dishes Don't wait for me Are you hungry? What I'm most worried about is that you only know how to attend meetings I didn't eat well and my stomach got hungry. But today, I can watch you eat. I feel relieved. I'm telling you I watched my dad cook these dishes. He cooked it very carefully. This shrimp is not delicious when it is cold. And your favorite fried eggs with chives This is your favorite food Miya Come with me, I have something to tell you. say what Dad, I'm going to talk to Xiaozhe. Be right back Okay What do you want to tell me? Let's go, sit down and talk. What on earth are you trying to tell me? You hurry up and say Actually I've been watching you There is always a Doesn't feel very real Because other people are in my eyes Maybe that is Changed hair Changing clothes But you are different You are in my memory A lot of looks What you looked like when you were five years old Seven years old Ten years old Twenty years Lin Meiya I always feel like I owe you a thank you It makes me feel uncomfortable. What are you thanking me for? Then I want to say thank you too Thank you for being with me for twenty years. This guy is not proposing marriage, right? No way Propose here He's too clueless. Our orphanage In fact, many people still Alone Can't find a home So I always feel like I met you Quite lucky After I met you There is this place Are you tired? Not tiring Then would you like to Always carrying me like this I am willing dad Chen Zhe said he is willing to carry me like this forever I am old, but he still carries me on his back Good good good Come quickly Spicy crayfish is ready to be served Spicy Crayfish Come on At this intersection You've been through wind and rain for so many years. Been waiting for me Wait for me to eat together Wait until I get out of school, wait until I get off work So I always felt I should say thank you Thank you Thank you for giving me this home Thank you for choosing me Be your loved one But let's separate. Let's break up No, no That's not what I mean. You bought me the ring. This is before you go to Europe Give me little red beans Meyer 20 Years You are good My uncle is also very good to me. This home is also warm. The dishes are also delicious But Mia No matter how delicious the food is, it will last for 20 years. I'm tired of eating I'm giving it back to you now Because I don't think I deserve it. Find someone worthy Forget Me Don't go This is a breakup What is the situation I don't I don't I I don't want to break up with you Miya You picked me up at the airport yesterday. I don't I don't I I don't want to break up with you I don't want to break up with you I can change if I don't do it well. I changed That's too much. I'll go check it out Asshole, this kid Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Don't go I won't let you go Chen Zhe Don't go Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Chen Zhe, don't go Chen Zhe, Chen Zhe, don't go Chen Zhe, Chen Zhe, don't go Chen Zhe Chen Zhe Miya Are you injured? Get up quickly Are you okay? Injured? You're crazy chasing cars. Uncle Li Can you take me out of here? I don't want my dad See what I look like now good OK, I know what to do. Don't be sad. Don't be sad. It will be fine Stop crying Uncle Li Can you take me to Room 1701, Building B, Fanghua International? It's the one on Fanghua Road My youth All our hot vows The belief I have always held At the moment when Chen Zhe left He was taken away by the car that sped away That Moment All the lights in the world are turned off I lost all my senses and perception I have no direction No clue No past No future I was left in a blank space Became an empty shell Can only wait here Waiting to be crushed by Feng Gan But there is no Chen Zhe to save me anymore Drink slowly fraud fraud That guy is also a liar I said I want to go to Building B of Fanghua International Is this Youth International? I still have a lot to say. I have to go to Youth International I have to go talk to him. Miya So we are also telling white lies, right? Believe me You are like this now Better not to go find him. I want another drink. If you drink more, it will get worse. I'll make you a drink without alcohol no Alcohol Lots of alcohol I can drink a lot. Please, Uncle Li Come Come again Thanks. Let's stop here today. Uncle Li Where are we now Welcome to my fight club Your Fight Club This is your fight club. Why can't it be mine? Oh my god, why don't I know To be precise This place was opened by your uncle Xiao Li But not only this place This is a Sports and athletics club Basketball Football Volleyball Equestrian Golf What you can't imagine All sports are here Oh, and there is a hotel Oh my god She drank all of this. You've known her for so long. You don't know that this woman drank Transformation I never drank with her. Thousand? Since I was a child, I hate it most when someone touches my head I have grown up I hate it when other people sweat so much. You usually This is where I practiced getting beaten. Don't push your luck. We just saved you. Don't tell me about that. Just now I just told my dad I am having a sweet time with Xiaozhe now. I'd say you really don't have to. Sad for a man like that. A complete waste of life Do you understand what life is? When I was in the orphanage Because I'm skinny Those guys bully me. Every time you bully me It was Xiaozhe who stood in front of me to protect me He did it for me Always fighting with others He was beaten black and blue He said nothing Childhood When I was a kid I don't like eating fat Every time you eat I'll spit out the fat. Grasp it in your hand Xiaozhe will come running when he sees it. Then he took the meat from my hand Then put it in your pocket He has a pocket from childhood to adulthood Always greasy The teacher always criticizes him for this. He's not sad at all Every time he sees me he smiles He just laughed, you know? He's like a hero. It rained heavily that day It's raining heavily On the way home from school My shoes are all wet. It's Chen Zhe Chen Zhe gave me his shoes to wear I have shoes to wear fraud fraud I'm going to Fanghua International Building B Building B Building B This is not Fanghua International Building B at all Don't stop me Don't stop me Loosen up, all of you. Ouyang is coming Challenge me Challenge me I don't believe you can beat me. Xiaozhe I love you I can't break up with you Xiaozhe Xiaozhe, where are you? Xiaozhe Chen Zhe is different from me He didn't meet one The dad who took him home But everything he did since he was a child All Things He did it all by himself. If you love me You will come to me You will know me I'm almost dead today We broke up today I don't know why I really I really don't know why He broke up with me. But I closed my eyes When I close my eyes, I think All I think about is how good he is to me. I can't break up with him. If you love me You will come to me You will know me I'm almost dead woke up Uncle Li I'm at your house This is the hotel You drank too much last night No matter how I call him, he won't wake up There's no other way but to bring you here But don't worry I slept in the next room last night. Are you hungry? I'll give you ten minutes to wash up. I'm waiting for you downstairs good fraud fraud This is not Fanghua International Building B at all Come again I don't want to break up with you sister Sister coffee I just came on my way I just happened to see your secretary bringing you coffee. I said give it to me Anyway, I'm coming to you. And my long legs No high heels Definitely faster than her. What's up sister What happened last night? I've thought about it seriously. Don't listen to your dad. You can do it yourself I won't get involved. Don't make trouble for you anymore. Dad has his reasons for letting me take care of you. Just do it. Sister, don't be mad at dad. Apparently, Dad is old fashioned. He can't have your foresight, right? This is the reality. You said it developed in that direction. He's too embarrassed to admit it. I saw the old man last night I just want to find a staircase. I just came back and caught up. He's talking to me. On the surface, it's asking you to take me with you. In fact, you also know I am not cut out for this. You're taking me out. I guess our company's beauty department will have to close down. Do you have anything else? If you have nothing to do, go to the sales department. The previous market research on second-tier cities Take them back and have a look Should we ask the sales manager Chen Zhe? right OK By the way, sister, let me tell you something Guess what I watched last night? I just witnessed The whole process of Chen Zhe returning the box That was a breakup scene. Lin Meiya is crazy It was Li Dong and I who saved the scene. How did you save him? Isn't that a coincidence? Lin Meiya Food Stall Just opposite Li Dong's old restaurant Li Dong and I are having dinner. Anyway, I tell you That Chen Zhe in the sales department is a piece of shit. After breaking up, he pushed the girl to the ground Get in the car and run away The girl was crying and chasing the car Shouting That scene was simply I tell you, I can't describe it. People all over the street are watching. Shame on you Let me and Li Dong take her away She can't let her dad know. You said that Li Dong and I can't just stand by and watch someone die. Yes or no How long are you going to chat with me here? I will disappear immediately Disappear immediately Miss Lin, this way please Ms. Lin, please take a seat. Thanks Are you hungry? Eat it Uncle Li sorry Last night was because Last night was You know Plus I drank so much So I didn't control my emotions. Most importantly Not controlling your behavior To you and your good friend Ouyang Caused a lot of trouble I know I really didn't mean it. I also feel embarrassed I will never do this again. Is it tasty tasty It's delicious Uncle Li, I have very high requirements for cakes. The cake is really delicious Delicious, eat more Don't waste a delicious breakfast. Oh, Uncle Li. I want to ask you What happened last night Don't tell my dad. Because he has high blood pressure I don't want him to worry about me. Are you thinking I didn't go home last night. And your father didn't send you a single text message I didn't call you once. How do you know? Because last night I called your dad. How did you tell him? I said you were drunk and acting crazy True or false Fake Uncle Li This kind of joke in the future Open as little as possible Don't worry I told your dad I invite you and Chen Zhe to come to my club Too late I'll leave you here. But I specifically explained You and Chen Zhe each have a room May I Uncle Li, you are really thoughtful. Thanks You're welcome No longer uncomfortable Eat well too This state of yours is not good for your health. Cheer up and eat well I'll take you to find Chen Zhe in a moment. Have any questions Ask him clearly in person Heavy Punch Kick him pretty Go and find the sales manager Chen Zhe Call me over Don't call Go directly to him Thank you Mr. Ou There's something I've always wanted to tell you. explain What will you arrange for me to do in the future? Can you please stop saying thank you? You arranged for me to do It's all my job. You always say thank you to me I'm really unsure It's my job to say thank you. Go ahead good Uncle Li The hotel just now It's yours yes Everything in there All yours That's right The one we just passed by Golf Course Equestrian Club It's not yours, is it? Guessed it right These are all mine. No wonder I got it right Right What's up? I saw your old shop before. Always weird I'm still wondering why the store is so old The services and facilities inside All are five-star I'm still worried about you. Your food is so cheap. How can I get my money back? This time I understand But it's also weird Why are you doing this? Want to know? Li's Old Shop This is the first store my grandfather founded. Start from scratch When I started my business, my grandfather told me He was very difficult It's all thanks to the friends around me Neighbors help each other Business slowly started to develop Later, the business grew bigger and bigger Continuous development Our Li Family Became a leading enterprise in the hotel industry Grandpa taught us No matter how much money people make Don't forget your roots We want to give back the money we earn to society To help those who need our help so what The old shop you saw It's a five-star standard The most affordable consumption Do you understand? Oh my god Thumbs up for your grandpa Enter Manager Chen Mr. Ou asked you to go to his office Which Ou Mr. Ouyang Xiaoou Thanks, I'll go right away Uncle Li 62556 Sorry to have kept you waiting. This is the coffee for you. I also have a share Thanks Get in the car FERGU$O Mr. Ou, please find me That I heard Our company's beauty department has been Sales performance in second-tier cities Not ideal Yes Then you go back and sort it out. What have you done with the beauty department in second-tier cities in the past two years? Chain store market research and Forecasting plan for chain store closures Give me a copy Bring it here Okay, I'll go right away. etc. Do you have anything else? Wait a minute, I stopped it. Let's talk about something unimportant. sit sit Can I help you? No What about me I just can't help but ask. Just asking I'm just very curious Look Your twenty-year relationship with Lin Meiya She loves you so much And according to her description You love her so much too Touching How come suddenly You're breaking up without any warning. Mr. Ou This is probably my personal emotional problem. Nothing in front of you Having an affair Let me say Actually, I think Lin Meiya is In fact, she doesn't look bad at all Quite kind. Personality There are no major disadvantages. Except that it's a little bit But I think This isn't anything innocuous. It's just a little poor Could it be that you are with a rich woman? No way You don't look like this kind of person. Mr. Ou, I broke up with Lin Meiya. How did you know? Just ask Lin Meiya. But does she still remember? I'm not sure besides Let's not talk about anything else. I think the way you break up I really can't stand it. Quite annoying How can you push a girl to the ground? I drove away by myself That's too unmanly. You are right Thank you for your concern You, don't do this I really don't care about you I'm annoyed by you. So you don't have to thank me Okay, you go. Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Beijing N*G2336 Thank you, Uncle Li You have my phone number and WeChat. If you have any questions in the future, you can contact me at any time I should be able to help you solve some problems. Okay? Thanks You're welcome I bought it for you Your favorite coffee I called you last night You keep turning off Today you turned on the phone But you never answered my calls Send you WeChat You don't reply me I can only come to you But don't worry I didn't mean to disturb you. I didn't plan on coming into your office. I won't let your colleagues see me I originally planned Hiding in a I'll wait for you where no one can see me Did I not make it clear enough yesterday? I know It was always my fault. I didn't give you enough space. But I can guarantee I can change these Can you give me another chance? I promise I will never be the same again I definitely won't How did Ouyang know what happened last night? Asking you a question How did Ouyang know? When I was chasing your car last night Fell down Ouyang and Uncle Xiao Li came to help me I wasn't in a good condition. I don't want my dad to see it. I let them take me away I want them to take me to you. But they took me to a Fight Club Miya Our business is our business. Can't we solve it ourselves? Why are you taking our business? Tell Ouyang Who is Ouyang? He is my boss I'm going to work for him. You look like this You go tell him this. What do you want me to do? What's your intention? real I don't want to know about you. What did you say? I don't want to be with a brainless woman like you. Together When you are sad You shouldn't drink this stuff. Excessive coffee consumption Causes brain nerve excitement Increased blood flow Improved heart blood supply Increased workload on the heart In case of arrhythmia Severe cases can directly lead to death Big sister, you don't want to die here, do you? I want to talk to you Come in Speak get off work She has something to tell me now. It's inconvenient for you to listen, do you understand? Good good good Can you tell me now? First things first I want to thank you Help me yesterday Secondly Secondly, I want to apologize to you I'm sorry I caused you trouble after drinking last night. But why did you finish my drink? Tell Chen Zhe what I told you Why do you want to criticize Chen Zhe? I broke up with him It's all my fault It has nothing to do with him I do things Not done well What do you think he is doing? I last night I am drunk What I said myself I don't know myself I came to see Chen Zhe today I was originally I want him to forgive me. But he said he didn't want to A brainless woman together I really have no brains Why should I To take my affairs with him Tell you Oh my god How can there be such a thing in this world? A woman like me who has no brains You are his leader I said bad things about him in front of you You'll definitely say he You blame him He could only stand and listen He can't say anything yet Lin Meiya I think you are not only brainless. You're still short-sighted. There is no direction in my eyes and my nerves are broken Brain hypoxia You're totally ruined. You are absolutely right I'm really exhausted I'm really exhausted I completely collapsed in Chen Zhe's heart I beg you Don't do it because of me Hate Chen Zhe He is really one of your outstanding employees. He works hard every day Working overtime every day He never complained. Don't be mad at him because of me. It's all my fault I'm stupid. I'm short-sighted. There's still a missing string in my brain But my business with him is my business I really hope it's not because of me Affecting his work I also hope you don't Don't misunderstand He's a really good employee. Calm down first. Calm down, okay? Come on, calm down, okay? You sit here first Calm down, okay? receive Control your emotions Is the control point good? Anything can be solved, okay? I'm sorry I bothered you. I'm leaving Hello Hello mom mom I see OK, I know. Why does my future brother-in-law have something to ask me? I heard that you went to the sales department to get the report today. Looks good See you in the evening See you in the evening I'm asking you to keep your mouth shut. What's wrong What's wrong? Okay, okay, I won't say anymore. I have something to ask you It's okay so I can't come to see you Nothing Send Lin Meiya here to see her boyfriend Then come visit us Are you okay, big boss? You sent this ancestor to me. Only one person knows it. Why don't you just send her there? Fanghua International Building B Why don't you send it? The people you recruited Seriously, seriously Do you have a date with my sister tonight? Engagement Date You know what I mean Understand Good luck to you, brother-in-law Thank you, brother-in-law Come sit in my room power Come Lai Lidong Come come come Brother Ou Our future cooperation There will be many more places But I think it's the most perfect collaboration. It is the marriage of these two children. yes We are a family from now on. Yeah yeah yeah That's right I have asked someone to calculate the wedding dates for both of my children. October 8th A good day for many children and good fortune OK There are still a few months left to prepare for the wedding. Time Enough Come, come, have another sip Come come come Come come come Xiao Li Dong good OK Parents Uncle and Aunt Please allow me to say a few words About my marriage with Ori All along We two as parties Never expressed publicly My own thoughts I believe both parents can see it. Between me and Ori There is no such thing as Too much emotional expression I have always Treat Ori as your sister I believe that Ori has always Treat me as her good brother For this loveless marriage Our families Can it be properly prevented? This kind of thing happens? After all, this is a new era and a new society. Even if Ori and I were not married I believe our two families Still able to cooperate in a friendly and tacit manner To become a family I don't know my parents Uncle and Aunt And Ori Do you agree with my idea? Li Dong What are you talking about? I can understand that But I think love is Sometimes it can be cultivated What do you think? Love is such a thing It is possible not to have Some people are together for a lifetime There is no love But he got what he wanted Even if I sacrifice my love What is there to regret? Ou Rui, what are you talking about? Uncle and Aunt You should know clearly I'm not my father's biological child. So I married for profit. Marry for love It's not important to him at all Do I have someone I love? Is there a life I want to live? Even less important No one will care. Eat slowly Uppercut Okay Ouyang Ouyang Okay Thank you Chairman's Phone dad What are you busy with? I'm in the office. I haven't finished get off work yet. I'll go over to see you. good See you later then. It's over. It's over. I have to get to the company before my dad Go Go Go How long will it take for my dad to arrive? About half an hour Is half an hour enough? There's still time to take a shortcut How did I practice today? The other party's body shape and weight Have a clear advantage You should give up the attack strategy as soon as possible. Transition to ground warfare Your strategy is correct. But your strangulation skills are still not mature enough Let him break free easily How long have you been with my dad? It's been nine years by the end of the year. It's been so long Why don't you follow him? What are you doing here? I don't want to either But the chairman has his own intentions In fact, he often mentions you It's just that his son You can't support a wall with mud. You think too much The chairman is in front of me I never said you were bad. You may not believe it But he really cares about you. That's right Anyway, if you follow me in the future I can't get rid of it even if I want to. How about you guide me in training? How about paying you? Hurry up! Chairman Here Dad, I'm following your request. Check out this article about second-tier cities Some information about chain stores You're busy. Come and have a seat. Tell me the truth How long do I have? I can't say this. One or two years at most One or two months at least Anyway, you must be in a good mood My suggestion is to quit your job. Travel around the world with your wife This might help goodbye goodbye Dad, are you unhappy with your meal? Maybe I'm old. Sometimes I feel a little lonely There is a saying Parents still have a place in life When parents are gone, life is just a journey home Dad often reflects on himself Was it when you were young? Did something wrong So God is punishing me Let me return home for the rest of my life Looks so lonely Your mother drinks all the time. Your sister is becoming more and more polite to me. You're not home at all It seems like everyone is avoiding me The house is as cold as an ice cellar I always think of you when you were a kid At that time, I often came home late from work. But what about you? Always sneaking into my room Touch my head, touch my hand I always worry if I have a fever. So much fun You know how cute you are, you little brat Dad, are you okay? I never have time for you Always busy making money Busy socializing I'm sorry, son. Ouyang I just hope you Stop running around. Stay at home and stay in the company If you have anything, come and tell me. Even if nothing happens Just sit with me. Drink tea and daydream All Someone I can count on in the future Only You Only you Little Boy dad I was ignorant before. Always against you I won't run around anymore. What about the company? I will learn to do it too. OK Okay, you're busy. I'm leaving first Don't be too late Then I'm leaving dad fine I think love is something Sometimes it can be cultivated You should know clearly I'm not my father's biological child. So I married for profit. Marry for love It's not important to him at all Do I have someone I love? Is there a life I want to live? Even less important Hello Are you at home? Not in the company There are still some things that haven't been completed. What's wrong I miss you I'm downstairs in your house Can you come back soon? What's wrong with you Why are you crying? It's okay. I just miss you. Can you come back soon? Good wait I'll be back now Xiao Meng, please clean up the room for me good Xiaozhe So you have to work overtime until so late every day It's too hard We have been looking for you so hard. Who are you? who I am Let me go, let me go Help, is there anyone? Help Get on board Let me go Isn't this Lin Meiya? what to do Walk what to do Catch up Who are you? Why did you kidnap me? Not kidnapping me Why am I in your car? Where are we going? You don't recognize us so soon. Can I use my cell phone to make a call? You still want to call the police? I didn't want to call the police I said I'd call my dad. What phone call? Stay still for me I really don't know you You must have kidnapped the wrong person. It's not the wrong person. I really don't know you I don't usually offend anyone. If you change your clothes, you are no longer you. When I'm blind no I am Lin Meiya Is it really me you want to arrest? You must have the wrong person. Can you please let me go, brother? Okay, I Be honest with me I jumped out of the car Catch Her Don't move Help! Catch Her Let me go You're so far away, aren't you afraid of losing me? There are two most common situations in which car tracking occurs Anti-detection and de-stalking This distance is just right Should I call the police? Call the police Logically speaking Lin Meiya, a girl with no money and no power It's impossible to cause any big trouble Let's take a look at the situation first. Hurry up Lin Meiya The last name was also changed Awesome Du Ruonan ID cards can be forged I already said my name is Lin Meiya I don't understand what you're saying at all. I don't know who you're looking for. But I'm definitely not the one you're looking for. Du Ruonan, you are too shameless Looking for a fight? How dare you hide from me? If you hit me, can I not hide? What's wrong with hitting you? What's wrong with me hitting you? What's wrong with hitting you? Brother, stop hitting me. Stop fighting What's wrong We'll be there soon. I want you to be more talkative Be honest with me When I get there, I'll show you how I'll deal with you. What to see Can't I just not watch it? Go down get off Go Faster Wait, sorry. Wait a moment I kind of need to go to the bathroom. I told you not to play tricks on me. Let me go to the toilet. Bitch You wait for me Bring it in Walk Go fast Walk Go fast Let me go What are you doing? You guys come back Don't go How about it Exciting You kidnapped the wrong person. I'm really not the one you're looking for. Call your mom I said you kidnapped the wrong person. I don't have a mother at all I am an orphan I grew up in an orphanage. If you don't believe me, you can go to the orphanage to investigate. You dare to lie to me Looking for death I didn't, I didn't lie to you My name is really not Du Ruonan My name is Lin Lin Meiya I just came back from France My dad runs a food stall. Go investigate. Lin Meiya orphan So what happened to your dad? I tell you Don't think you told two lies You don't have to pay me back the one million you owe me You calm down I didn't lie to you I am my adoptive father My adoptive father adopted me from an orphanage. My name is not Du Ruonan I didn't lie to you I You're still lying to me, right? You look so white and clean Full of lies I don't think I can give you some color. You don't have a long memory. Take her clothes off for me Don't touch me, don't touch me, help me What are you doing? Who let you in? Are you looking for death? court death How many do you hit? It's not my business to be a hero and save a beautiful girl Come on your own How about I'll be three and you'll be four? You decide What? You guys are breaking the law, you know? What's wrong with breaking the law? I tell you In this place I am the law Come Come on Kidnapping gangsters I'm done. I'll be faster next time. It hurts. It hurts. I was wrong I was wrong I was wrong If you behave yourself, it won't hurt. Honest Call all your brothers over to me. Come here, come here. Oh my god Where did you come from? I didn't know you guys were so good at fighting. This is the first time I watched a live version in my life Fighting so hard Squat Squat down Squat down Squat I know That guy gave me his business card at the airport. Is his name Jiang Yilong? He is your master, right? Can he teach me how to fight? May I Are you short-sighted? The lack is a bit serious. It's already this time and you're still here to claim a master How are you? Are you okay? Does it hurt? Somewhat It will hurt more tomorrow Don't move Don't move I always thought you were a piece of cake when it comes to fighting. I didn't expect you to be so good at fighting. Just these few little guys Ten more is no problem. Thanks Why are you going Where is the stick? Who were you just now? Who scares me? Who just took off my clothes? I I will kill you I Now I know I was wrong Did I tell you just now? Wrong person kidnapped I I I I hit you Do you believe it? Thank you. Thank you. Thanks Thanks These guys all have criminal records. Debt collector for others We've been watching them for a long time. This time, thanks to your great assistance. Jiang Yilong The national free-fighting champion Thank you again You're welcome This is what we should do Come and sit down Look Is this certificate authentic? We have confirmed Lin Meiya's father was also contacted What about later? Just sign and you can go. The girl this group of people found is called Du Ruonan Looks a lot like Lin Meiya This Du Ruonan owes a loan shark Because this group of people recognized the wrong person They targeted Lin Meiya About this matter We will continue to follow up the investigation What's the latest progress? I will also keep you informed Thank you again Thank you, Officer Wu You're welcome Jiang Yilong National kickboxing champion How come I don't know Even though I'm not his biological child I have also lived in the Ou family for twenty years. I've called him dad for twenty years. I really don't want to do this anymore Working hard for him to run the company In the end, he was just a pawn of the Ou family. We two left this city together. OK Start over in a new place I said, are you stupid? I don't care. It's the same wherever I go. But you are different You are the president of the Oreo Group. You need to know everything you have today You fought for it yourself. It's not because you are Ou Changlin's daughter Why do you want to give up your future? Just give it to someone What about the unlearned Ouyang? Anyway, I tell you I won't be that selfish. I'll stay with you Fight with you to the end I won't let you marry Li Dong The person you are going to marry is me Wait a minute. I have a call. Hello Uncle Lin Xiaozhe? I just received a call Xiaoya was kidnapped. What? Mia was kidnapped. yes I didn't believe it at first. I thought it was a scam call. Later I called Xiaoya She was indeed kidnapped. But she has been rescued now. But she was injured Now he is receiving treatment in the hospital. Go to the People's Hospital immediately. Okay, don't worry. Don't worry, I'll be there soon. A call from Uncle Lin It is said that Lin Meiya was kidnapped In the hospital now You know Uncle Lin also raised me since I was a child. Like a father to me I'm afraid he might not be able to handle it alone. He needs help from me I think I should go help. Such a big thing should be seen I'll be back soon soon Does it hurt? No pain These bastard kidnappers He deserves to die. This little Zhe is really Why did he insist on asking you to wait for him in the basement? dad Don't worry Your blood pressure will be high again. Look, I'm fine. I'm fine Don't blame Xiaozhe for this. He didn't even know I was waiting for him in the basement. The kidnappers didn't beat me. They tied my hands with ropes. If you don't tie me up, I'll just run away. Actually, I ran I'm just a little bit stupid I fell while running. Look The face is stuck Okay, stop talking. This is also Dad's fault You said I should call you earlier Let you go home Isn't that the case? uncle You said you child You work overtime, so you work overtime. Why does Xiaoya have to wait for you in the basement? If she is waiting for you in the office Can something happen to her? Fortunately, Xiaoya is fine today. She has a few problems I'm not rude to you. dad Don't lose your temper with Xiaozhe Didn't I just tell you? He doesn't know I'm waiting for him in the basement I didn't tell him I want to give him a surprise what What is going on? I'll wait for you in the basement I don't know where it came from. A bunch of people ran out Tie me up in the car. They kidnapped the wrong person. Fortunately, Jiang Yilong and Ouyang saw it. I just kept following the car that kidnapped me. To a factory in the suburbs Saved me dad Stop blaming Xiaozhe. He really didn't know I was in the basement good I'll go see if the inspection report is out. Banmangtao Tao Mang Mang Ang I'm fine Just some skin injuries The doctor has simply dealt with it. The inspection report will come out soon. If there's nothing else, you can go back. Don't wait for me in the basement anymore. I want to see you But you don't answer my call Don't reply my WeChat I don't dare to disturb you in your office. No matter what you do next time Let me know Let you know if it is useful Mr. Ou Who is this person? What is he doing here? No problem Take good care of yourself after you go back. The injury is healed. Thank you, sir. The police have completed their investigation. Your identity information is fine. The Du Ruonan they are looking for It seems to be a A girl who looks very similar to you This woman owes a loan shark. I don't know why these people targeted you. I thought this Du Ruonan was hiding here. The police are still investigating the specific situation. You should pay more attention to safety during this period Don't run around alone. right They always call me Du Ruonan The Du Ruonan you are talking about Who is she? have no idea It seems to be a A girl who looks like Lin Meiya How old is she? Is she about the same age as Xiaoya? Where is she now? The police are investigating The police will contact you if anything happens. Dad, what's wrong with you? I'm worried about you. She said she looks so much like you Then you will definitely be in danger in the future Look how nervous I am. Forgot the important thing Mr. Ou Thank you so much Thank you for saving Xiaoya If it weren't for you Xiaoya will definitely be in danger today I'm scared when I think about it now Thank you so much. Uncle Don't be so polite to me. I just happened to catch up Thank you for that too. I'll treat you to a meal. It's so late How about I treat you to a midnight snack? No need uncle Let's talk about it another day It's so late. I will definitely treat you to a meal some other day. Xiaozhe You will take Xiaoya home later. I'm going out to do something. I'll be back soon, don't wait for me. Dad, where are you going so late? I'm going out to do something. Are you Officer Wu? You called me? I am Lin Meiya's father. I'm so sorry. Why are you bothering me so late? Are you still in the police station? I want to go over and find out more about the situation. Good good good See you later. Good good good Ouyang Your clothes You wear it first. Cool at night I tell you Even though we broke up But as a man The responsibilities that should be fulfilled must be fulfilled Do you understand? Get on board Our business I haven't told my dad yet. I'm worried that his body can't take it I didn't expect him to call you. I don't know if I disturbed your work. I'm sorry No more talking, get in the car and I'll take you home besides I have explained it clearly to Ouyang. I told him very clearly Our breakup has nothing to do with you. It's all my problem. He has no right to blame you. Explain to him What's your relationship with him now? When did you two become so good friends? What are you asking him to do now? What does he do for you? If you ask him to help you act, he will help you act. What play are you acting in? You were kidnapped It's just a coincidence He just happened to be passing by He saved you After that, find another one, I don't know who it is. Pretend to be a police officer Give Uncle Lin a call Uncle Lin calls me whenever he gets anxious I'm right here. Lin Meiya I didn't make it clear enough. Do you think it's fun to keep pestering me like this? I am like this in your heart That's how you think of me You think I beat myself up like this? I'm sick. I'll be waiting for you in the basement today I don't know where from A bunch of people came Say nothing Pull me into the car I'm with that group of people There is no reason at all I've told them I'm not the one they're looking for. But they didn't listen at all They beat me, they pulled my hair They tied me to a chair. A bunch of men want to take off my clothes I thought I was going to die. Ouyang and Jiang Yilong showed up in time Otherwise I really don't know What are the consequences? If you don't believe You pull those people out. One by one confrontation Ask them Did I direct and act in this film myself? A play Finished Why do you hate me so much all of a sudden? Even if we broke up So many years Am I not your relative? I don't believe you would be so cruel. I don't believe you've kept the past. You forgot I don't believe I was bullied. You don't feel sorry for me Why you tell me What happened? What happened? What happened I made it clear I'm tired of it, I don't love it anymore I don't even want to be a relative now. No? Do you want me to take you home? don't want I have legs and feet, I can walk by myself Slow Walk How is this person performing? She's pretty good. Graduated with honors in France Her mentor, Mr. Pettit It is also very prestigious in the industry. Generally speaking, the ones he recommends are not wrong. We should notify Lin Meiya tomorrow. I officially started working at the company. OK, got it. That's right The sales manager, Chen Zhe Opened it for me What You want to fire Manager Chen from the sales department how Do you have any doubts about this? If not, please arrange it quickly. He can resign tomorrow. Mr. Ou, your coffee Put it here Then I'll go out first. Wait a moment Help me rent an apartment Recently The company has too much to deal with. I won't go home. Do you have any requirements for room type and location? Fanghua International Apartment The community environment is also good near the company I have no requirements for room type No need to consider the price But it must be fast It would be best if we could sign the contract today. Got it, I'll do it right away Go ahead uncle Does Lin Meiya live here? Thank you, uncle Lin Meiya Lin Meiya Lin Meiya Why are you here? Seeing the lifesaver is not enthusiastic at all Why don't you come out to greet me? Sorry, sorry. Sit down, sit down, sit down. I'll get you some water. No, no, no The medicine I brought you If you get beaten, apply some of this There is food These medicines are very helpful for the recovery of injuries caused by falls. Very helpful at this point Ouyang has the most say at this point I know Ouyang You actually left me and ran away like this Is there any woman who treats her fiancee like this? What smells so good? You guys are really blessed. I just baked the croissants. I'll bring it to you now. Croissant Yes Be careful good The roasting is very good. That is How did you know I lived here? Apply for a job at our company Don't tell me a word Why should I tell you I told you You mess it up for me again. Anyway I, Lin Meiya, will rely on my own strength Join your Ou Group how I still miss your Chen Zhe I haven't given up yet. It's like a dog-skin plaster. Haunting people every day Please If I hadn't taken the wrong box with you I originally planned to I went to interview at Ou Group. I didn't know at that time Is Chen Zhe in your Ou Group? Besides I interviewed for the beauty research and development department What does it have to do with their sales department? Don't worry Regardless of whether it matters You won't be able to see him. Why nothing Did you get your clothes? A senior woman Your fiancee Did she give you the clothes? What high-class female fiancee? How come I didn't know I had a fiancee? You don't have a fiancee? Lin Meiya, what's wrong with you? Finished I was scammed today When I went to your company for an interview Met a woman She said she was your fiancee. I gave her the clothes. Ask her to return the clothes to you. How could anyone do such a thing? Ouyang It doesn't matter How much is your clothes? I'll give it to you Mine is a hand-made limited edition I think it was more than 80,000 when it was ordered. How much More than 80,000 More than 80,000 Ouyang, are you crazy? You wear such expensive clothes. You still wear it to fight You should frame it and hang it on the wall Appreciate it as a work of art OK Let's not talk about this anymore. As for the clothes, you can return them later. Let's talk about me saving you today. If I remember correctly, last time I was in the hospital Your dad said he would treat me to a meal. how When will you invite me? I've been recuperating at home. This matter was not put on the agenda Do you have anything you particularly like to eat? I'll order it in a few days. have Your crayfish Just tonight How about booking your food stall? no Come to our food stall for dinner It seems that I am not sincere. Didn't you ask me what I wanted to eat? I want to eat crayfish now And it's yours. You should respect my opinion. Tonight at 8 o'clock See you at your food stall Gone Do you think Ouyang is too much? People went to see him with good intentions. And brought him so many gifts. In the end, he just threw me there. This is simply too much. I get angry just listening to it This is simply too much. that is How could you do this to our Weiwei? I saw him later I'll take care of him for you. How can this be? People don't talk about it. Speak of the devil and he will appear See how I can deal with him for you. AND Hello Hello? In the hotel I'm telling you You have a problem. Our Weiwei feels very wronged now I have a lot of opinions about you They come to see you with good intentions, right? You actually left him alone in the office. You ran away Brother, can I not run? I'm telling you You have to take good care of her. Don't let her come to my company all the time. Open your mouth and close your mouth, she is my fiancee My fiancee's What a bad impact this would have. I can't control this matter. You two have to solve it yourselves. Okay, let's not talk about this anymore. At night, eat at Lin Meiya's food stall Are you coming? You eat their crayfish Are you addicted? Didn't I save her? Crying and shouting, I must treat you to a meal You must repay me for saving your life You said I can't refuse her. I think again You said their family is in such a difficult situation. I can't be rich and unkind Must eat Michelin three stars You must come at 8 o'clock in the evening That's right. Don't ever let your sister know. 10 million good See you at 8pm It's hung up Where are you and Ouyang going at 8 o'clock in the evening? We both have work to discuss tonight. You talk about work with Ouyang What work are you talking about? Weiwei Suddenly I remembered that I had a meeting. You sit down first. Wait a minute Don't you always have meetings here? Where are you going? All-staff meeting dad pot What are you thinking? The pot is burnt. fine I'm just thinking Ouyang is your lifesaver. You said you would treat us to a meal at this small restaurant I feel bad about this. Dad, I thought it was something else. Relax Ouyang specifically asked us to come to our house. He also told me to respect his choice. So don't be stressed. The most important thing is to cook the food well. He personally named me here. yes Xiaoya Tell me the truth Did you break up with Chen Zhe because of him? Oh my god, dad What are you thinking about? How is it possible? You must stop overthinking. Hurry up Make the vegetables more delicious Be careful not to burn your hands. Come and get a cloth mat. good Brother, are you treating me to a meal or you treating me to a meal? Am I always better than you in punctuality? Traffic jam on the road How about it Is the new one handsome? Quite grand You look good. It has always been like this Good practice. Haier Brothers Lean towards you Uncle Lin Here it comes Hello Xiaoya Greet the guests as soon as they arrive Saw it Uncle Li and Ouyang, please take a seat. Rich enough All of them are our family specialties What about crayfish? My dad is cooking. On the way I said a lot of crayfish crayfish It never ends I'm telling you Guaranteed not to disappoint you Uncle Lin, please sit here. good Come Spicy Crayfish Thank you for your hard work, Uncle Lin Thank you for your hard work, Uncle Lin This is first. I know Mr. Ou is worried that we will spend money That's why I chose our little restaurant to eat. But as Lin Meiya's father I feel sorry for Mr. And Mr. Jiang's gratitude Mr. Jiang You call me Xiao Jiang Sit, sit, sit this Mr. Jiang is sitting In my heart Thank you to Mr. Ou and Xiao Jiang That is absolutely beyond words. Really really really Come and eat whatever you want in the future. I definitely don't charge money. What do you want to eat? What will I do for you? But I can't cook this kind of high-end food. I am good at this common dish. Uncle Lin, you are too polite. Okay, Dad, stop talking. A GR I didn't see that. AGR When did you become so eloquent? Okay, come on. Thank you Uncle Lin I did it first Welcome to our home again. Uncle, why did you do it all? You did it all dad You can't drink anymore today. Just drink this one cup Good good good Then I won't bother you anymore. You young people eat I'll cook two more dishes for you. Xiaoya You say hello Don't be polite to us good Uncle Lin doesn't need too many dishes. Good Xiaoya, take good care knew I'm telling you Eat now In addition to crayfish My dad also cooks fried clams very well. Come on Uncle Li Thanks You have to eat this with your hands, not with chopsticks. Wait a moment Can I say a few words before we start eating? What about you? You are greedy. You will have something to eat soon. What's wrong As Miya's Uncle Li Such a big thing happened to Meiya this time I didn't even know I was kidnapped I feel I have a responsibility This makes me feel very sad. So I want to thank Ouyang Come to the rescue at such a critical moment Helped Mia This drink is for you. etc. What does it mean? It doesn't mean anything. Thank you for saving the beautiful girl without any grudges It's not that her uncle Li is so polite today. Dedede It depends on how much you respect me. I'll drink more today. Thanks Jiang Yilong, you eat Ouyang, you come too. It smells so good Okay, okay, okay. Thanks How about it? Does it taste good? It smells good. elder brother I didn't tell her I haven't finished my work yet after the regular meeting on Monday. I still eat here. It stinks. Ouyang What are you doing squatting there? Are you hiding from me? Stop hiding My shoelaces are untied. I am tying them. elder brother You two can team up to deceive me. If I wasn't smart I heard you were here. Aren't you the woman who cursed me at the elevator entrance? Ouyang Do you know each other? Then she should return the clothes to you. Why did you lie to me today? Misunderstandings are all misunderstandings. Come Eat a crayfish Why are you two having dinner with her? This inside Maybe there's some misunderstanding? Let me formally introduce myself. Miya This is my sister Li Weiwei Weiwei Lin Meiya This food stall is owned by them. Our good neighbor for many years Lin Meiya You are Lin Meiya Are you Mr. Ou's girlfriend? You are still holding our President Ou's clothes. Why are Ouyang's clothes in your hands? He lent it to me. You don't want to tell me Are you really Ouyang's girlfriend? As far as I know, Ouyang's vision But it's never been so cheap If you are really Ouyang's fiancee I think Ouyang's vision Not very advanced You are now with Lin Meiya We are no longer lovers. She is single and so am I. I have the right to pursue whatever I like. Single Girl Is it your business? I understand Now everything is right. Ouyang Is it this bitch? Kicked my boyfriend Then shamelessly seduce you Weiwei Your taste has really changed. You don't want the best steak and foie gras Come here to eat cheap street food How did you fall now? With this kind of second-hand goods Mixed together Weiwei, what nonsense are you talking about? Li Weiwei, right? You said you are Uncle Li's sister I really can't believe it at all The good qualities of your brother Why on you? Can't even see a shadow You said you were Ouyang's fiancee, right? If this is true I really feel sad for Ouyang