(film rattling) (gentle music) (dramatic music) (engine chugging) (engine chugging) (water splashing) (person breathing) - [Diana] Heart pumping. Lungs, aching for air, unforgiving fear. That's how it feels to escape. (birds chirp) My sisters were free, but I was not. My whole family was separated early on. They were sent to schools in the north. They were my half sisters, but I was placed on a different path. (girls laughing) It wasn't easy for them either. (tense music) I am not going to lie to you. I did have many privileges I was in the big house after and ran everything, and mostly everyone. (hooves clop) I could move more freely, wear ladylike clothes, and even though it was Skin color was also a factor. Being on the light side was advantageous and perilous. Whether it be outside (door squeaks) or inside the house. (clock ticking) (clock bongs) (insects chirping) I was never fully protected and soon my daughters would Running the household was grueling work, but my heart melted Cornelia was so bright Master James Withers couldn't help but take pleasure in Little Julianna would (uplifting music) They were my sunshine, They kept me going, especially Things did become increasingly That horrid being, Caroline Laurens. Now, Caroline Laurens Read moved out to live in and that cold fish Caroline. - I think we should bring in before they get spoiled. - I already did that, ma'am. - Well then they need to be washed. - I already washed them, ma'am. - Well then, wash them again. - Yes, ma'am, I will. (Diana sighs) Gone were the days when old age had caught up with and Rice Hope was now going to pieces. All that mattered to me was that these gorgeous girls were mine and when they grew up, men clawing at them. No more unwanted visits in - [John] Say hello to the (birds chirp) - [Diana] Just like Ann it would be about their Dr. Read gave me his word. I was meant to be free, (dish clatters) And then it happened. Old Dr. Read took his He had been a hard nosed but always showed a bit But it was the death of a master. No good ever comes of it. It stirs terror in every slave's heart. No matter if you're in the and the vultures were already gathering. They listed all the assets and Most everything would go to his son, Master John Harleston Read Finally, it was his turn - I've made a decision. I'm not gonna discuss money anymore, and if you don't like it, you Then we'll talk about it. - What will happen to Diana? You stay away from her. You understand me? - My, you're getting sentimental, father. Can't bear to share Diana with me? - I suggest you leave before (footsteps patter) (dishes clatter) - [Diana] Master Read? - No. I know why you are here. I know what my father promised you and what I owe you and the children. I'm not gonna make the same Here, I want you to take this. You need to make me one promise though. Don't get caught. Because I cannot help you. (birds chirp) (footsteps patter) - [Diana] I was promised but I would have to say goodbye every person known. I had my little ones, but there was a dark and unclear path ahead of us. For those who are enslaved, it would always be about saying goodbye. Wilby would have to say (gentle music) Wilby was a slave who lived as a talented mason and plasterer. He again, had more and was rented out to help such as the Bellamy But there was one summer in into chaos, despair, and death. (people coughing) - [Cornelia] Yellow jack. that's what they called It was a time of fear, but also of opportunity. - We are all in agreement, - Okay, but tomorrow - Why? This may be our only chance and the weather is in our favor. - I've gotta go back to I've got to say goodbye. - Very well, but we can't have any more delays. (tense music) - Where is everyone? - Gone, to the country. - Sarah, Rosalie. They all with the family. - Well, at least less - Yes, as long as we don't - Meanwhile, my absence was, of course noticed immediately. - [John Jr.] Where the hell is Diana? - I have no idea. - What have you done? They're my assets, mine. You have no respect for my future. - Respect? You trespassed on two of my properties. They're not yours or anyone - I won't hear of it, I will find them. Mark my words. - Get out. (gentle music) - By then, I was making my way to the outskirts of Charleston, I knew of many free Black folk in town who might take me in for a while. A successful fisherman most of the time, offered until our next move. (kettle clangs) Thank you, Isaac, for your kindness. - Well certainly, Miss Diana. Anything for Miss Nancy's - My first thoughts of freedom What a thrill it would be to find them. (men yelling) Little did I know the trials A colored woman seeking target for violence. (fire crackling) (glass shattering) - [Julia] Stay here, be careful. (gunfire blasting) (child whimpers) - [Woman] I can't, I'm sorry. (men yelling) - Julia. - Come on. We gotta get outta here, go, go, go. That way, that way, that way. (suitcase rattles) (men yelling) (horse snorts) (gunfire blasts) (horse whimpers) (tense music) (hooves clopping) (crickets chirp) How in the world do you keep going? This is like your third school now. - I have a sister. She's still a slave, in a place that's far So I have to keep going - I understand. - Never give up, you hear? Never. - Yeah. (crickets chirp) (fire crackling) (crickets chirp) (footsteps patter) - Miss Diana, something's up. I ran all the way here to warn you. $100 reward will be paid and delivery at the White.. Her two children, Miss See it right here. - Lemme see it, lemme see. How is it, how is it possible? How is it possible? We have, we have permission to leave. We have papers, I am free! - Well, who would do this then? - I think I know. That delinquent, John Jr. I didn't know he would, We won't stay long, just one more night. - Miss Diana, I don't know, - Julianna, her cough has gotten worse. - Okay, one day, that's Just one day. I understand. We could now end up in A jail or so-called workhouse for runaway and disobedient slaves in Charleston. (person crying) It was a place of punishment, (birds chirp) Wilby's life was also just As plantation families were fleeing town, Wilby dropped his work and hurried to Porter's Neck Plantation. He and his mother, Elizabeth, or peanut, as you call it, Luckily, Wilby was a and a valuable asset to Mr. Nixon. - Hey mama. - Hey. (birds chirp) (Wilby sighs) - It's okay, I can find - You didn't come all to find an old sheet for your bed. - No. - It's time, isn't it? - Yes, but I will be back, I promise. - Mm-mm, mm-mm. There is no need to look back. I will always be in your heart. - I will make you proud, mama. (Mother laughs) - Son, you already have. (rooster crows) (Mother sniffles) William. You share your gifts with others. It is the way of our Gullah people. (emotional music) (footsteps patter) - [Diana] As I said before, Wilby was rented out all of the time as a mason and plasterer of (tool scraping) Wilby was always an optimist sometimes not looking at what's (books thudding) (bird calling) (papers rustle) - Interesting. - Thank you, just some work papers. So this says, &quot;Pour plaster - Yes, making a mixture of Your work sounds fascinating. (gentle music) - Thank you. - [Diana] They would never when they both realized the secret power of literacy between them. Words immediately connected them. Words gave them their - This is for you. Plaster. Why on earth would you No one's gonna see your - Just in case they might. You never know. It's like my name will be there forever, even though I won't. - I guess so. You're weird, Wilby. (Wilby laughs) - [Diana] They started reading It opened up their heads and hearts. It gave them a taste of To be educated was also illegal and risky. If someone found out. They in the days and years ahead. (train chugging) (birds chirp) I never looked close up The long ribbons of metal left me in awe. I felt as if I just touched those rails, I would feel a pulse, a vibration of far away lands of people living their lives in freedom. That one touch would transport us to safety in the north. Thanks to some old contacts I was at last able to come out from hiding and muster up train tickets We would find cover there and (footsteps patter) (birds chirp) (Julianna coughing) (whistle blows) (tense music) - [Conductor] All aboard! (whistle blows) - Hey, come on, get 'em! Stop that woman! Stop! (yells) - [Cornelia] Mama! (Diana gasps) - You're going home with us. (crickets chirp) - Apparently we were too valuable at the Sugar House. Maybe Master John Harleston intervened. (carriage squeaks) No matter, we were already and beaten down by our sorrow. (emotional music) (hooves clop) I must attend to my daughters. (footsteps patter) The river seemed so still those days as if in mourning. As were the trees, my spirit would have been lost forever if it wasn't for Cornelia (whistle blows) The dream of seeing my but a little part of me would not let go. I would've been so excited was not only highly educated, a teacher, but also an important with the likes of William Lloyd Garrison, the most prominent - How do you do? - [Diana] Abolitionist especially women of color. It was hard going for her, - Let us get some air, - Oh, that's quite all right, sir. I'll see you up there. (footsteps patter) (seabirds calling) (water lapping) - There you are. Your tea as promised. - I'm terribly sorry about - It's quite all right, I'm used to it. - Providence will not be Are you still willing to proceed? I understand if you're not. - Nothing will get in my way if I have anything to do with it. - I like your spirit. Now, please get some rest. - Thank you, sir. (dramatic music) - [Diana] Julia traveled all the way to Rhode Island by herself to attend an important abolitionist - Providence will again on to our conferences. Mr. Garnet. - So nice to see that you've arrived. - Yes, sir. - We can drop you off first, Mrs. Pope. Julia, unfortunately, at the colored boarding - I understand. (carriage rattles) I do hope you ladies have - Thank you. It's so wonderful meeting people Where were you born again, Miss Williams? Boston? - No, Charleston, South Carolina. - You don't say. Where rice is above souls and selves. - Indeed. - We've been on a coach like this before, but uh, under a little - Oh dear. - Driver, we are ready. (horse neighs) (hooves clopping) (dramatic music) - You know it's gonna to the ladies conference. It's going to be dangerous from the slave catcher's net. (dog barks) - Yes, I know... Thank you for your concern. I'll survive, we all survive somehow. Yes? - Your past in Charleston? It's unhealthy for you with this burden of guilt. - It's how I survive, it's - Indeed. - It was nice seeing you - I hope not goodbye, I, I - Maybe our paths will cross again. - [Diana] Despite the cemetery wagons going past Market Street, day and night, Wilby and his skilled - You did a nice job on that window. - Thank you. Just three more to go. - I would take your time. There's no rush. - Okay. - Look, I heard what you're doing. - I'm sorry? - All right, and I don't agree with it. You will be putting all of us in danger. - It is, in my opinion that all (tense music) - Pay no attention to him. No attention to him. Godspeed, William. Godspeed. - Thank you, Henry. (gentle music) (birds chirp) (footsteps patter) (birds chirp) (gentle music) - [Diana] I was starting to understand why Miss Caroline wanted me back so badly. Poor Master James had A heart attack at 38 years, and with that, Caroline's lifestyle was about (people talking) (hand slaps) It was after one of those a look in Caroline's eye that was most unsettling. There's nothing more menacing than an insecure white woman who knows she's running out of money. (birds chirp) Eight months since James Withers died, I could feel the storm (Maffitt singing) Or the pints must be together By the rising of the moon (Maffitt singing) (Maffitt knocking) And his cheeks were all aglow By your orders from the captain Get you ready quick and soon For the pints must be together By the rising of the moon - [Diana] He looked like all smiles and smirks, licking his chops. (gentle music) (horse neighs) I don't know how this rascal Miss Caroline to marry him. That said, they ended up being both desperate to improve - We should tell them soon. - I know, I know. (footsteps patter) (liquid trickles) (liquid trickles) - Thank you Diana. You are, both of you. So refined. - Thank you, Master Maffitt. - Diana, would you close We have some unpleasant news. (doors bang) (tense music) (dishware clanks) (dishware shatters) (footsteps patter) - [Diana] My worst fears were realized. We were to be sold on the open (tense music) (waves lapping) (rain pattering) It all happened to us, a downpour to me, Cornelia, Julia, and Wilby. (rain patters) Nice weather we're having. - Smarty pants, come on. (thunder rumbles) - [Diana] But sometimes the wind scrubs the sky clean and things become clear That's when little sprouts - Such beautiful weather, Henry. - Beautiful weather now wasn't I'm not getting back on that boat. - It's a miracle, and look, we survived. - It's a miracle we survived. - Mighty storm we had last night. - I'll say, oh, my legs are still swaying. But on the other hand, my wife here has better sea legs than I do. (laughs) - How do you do? Excuse me. You look so much like a woman - Charleston, that's where I'm from. - Oh, you don't say, may - Garnet, Julia Williams Garnet. - Williams, Williams, now, you wouldn't to a Miss Diana Williams per chance? - I, I am her sister. - Well, land sake's - She's a member of the Read How is she? Where is she? - It's been several years But I'm sorry to say, I must that I recently overheard in Charleston. You, you see, Miss Diana and her daughter are under the strict control and he is to sell her on the open market, as soon as the opportunity arises. - She, she has a daughter? - [Isaac] Yes, ma'am. How could the Reads let this happen? - Well, look, I'm, I'm sorry ma'am. I'm afraid to say, but - We are much obliged - Yeah, we are grateful that you told us, thank you brother. - Sir, yes sir, welcome. Ma'am. (tense music) - This cannot happen. We must act quickly, Henry. - [Henry] I promise we will. - [Diana] As Julia and Henry headed back to the United States, a call to action was launched immediately. That traveled thousands over high seas and eventually making its Ann, on Nantucket. (door squeals) - A letter for you, dear, - It's been so long. Let me see. - Ann? - It's my sister. She's in terrible trouble. - What has happened to Julia? - No. My other sister. Poor Diana. We'll have to write a letter today. - To whom? - Captain James Newland Maffitt, Diana's slave holder. - Good heavens. - [Diana] Reverend James gentleman and a strong, steady presence. He took it upon himself to their pressing dilemma. - In the name of Christ, our Lord. I want to thank you for your support. (gentle music) (birds chirp) (lock rattles) - [Diana] Reverend was after barber in all of Nantucket. So he preached to his customers as well. - Looking good. - Little more off the back, please. - Yes, my brother, amen. - [Diana] Meantime, to Wilmington, North Carolina (birds chirp) Captain Maffitt and Caroline didn't trust leaving us in Charleston. So Cornelia and I had to Little did I know it was the Rice Hope Plantation again. We were now living in a strange new town. Cornelia seemed to like it, but every waking moment we hanging on a string. Then one day, several months after our arrival, a into the hands of Captain They were fighting to save us. (Maffitt laughing) - Yes, well... (paper clatters) They will become aware of Dear Reverend Crawford, nothing would give me greater the blessings of liberty $1,900 for the pair. Not negotiable. Ah, tea. Thank you, Cornelia. - Can she go now so she - Yes, that's fine. (spoon clinking) Don't, for a minute think that we are not watching you. (spoon clinking) (crickets chirping) (gentle music) - [Wilby] You are sort of Be careful. - You sound like my mother. - Sorry. - No, that's a, that's a good thing. Wilby, I don't know I don't know if I can - I know what you mean. I have something for you. - What is it? - Here. It's an old writing set that This way you can always That's what helps me. You can also use it to - Thank you, Wilby. (crickets chirp) (paper rustles) - The greedy devil wants almost $2,000 for Diana and Cornelia. He's only given us a month to come up with the entire amount. - What are we to do? All the congregations in the entire state would not be able to - I think calling on Garnet - Yes, Julia will know (dramatic music) (hooves clopping) - Thank you for taking the time to see us. - It is my pleasure. - So you think Anna to use the Weems funds? - If anyone can persuade, it would be you. - I'll start on the letter at once. - [Anna] Dear Reverend Garnet, the Society of Friends grants your request to use the surplus Weems funds May our spirits remain strong and hopeful. Respectfully, respectfully (Caroline coughing) (Caroline coughing) - Sounds like you need some water. (water trickles) - It's very kind of you. Thank you. Ah. Yes, thank you. Hmm. Diana? - I didn't want things to end up this way. - Things? - The Reads. I mean, they left me no choice. They robbed me of my You can understand that, right? They let you down too. It'll all work out for you, for us. You'll see. - My iron is getting cold. (footsteps patter) (birds chirp) - I've gathered the post today. - [James] Here, let's have a look. (bell ringing) Praise God. Julia received $500 and - How wonderful, I think this will work. (paper rustling) - Oh... - What is it? - Oh no. He lied to us. - [Diana] True to his character, Maffitt brushed aside his arrangements with Reverend Crawford and put an ad to sell me and Cornelia. Maffitt had already made Cornelia and I started (somber music) (latches clicking) Now, Julia and Henry Garnet that had connections. Ann and Reverend Crawford in Nantucket could pull some strings too. - Why don't we ask the - Well, hello darling, the Worth family? - Yes, their cousin Thomas Worth. He's a wealthy businessman in Wilmington. What if he purchased them and kept them while we gather the funds? - Do you think we can trust him? - Yes, I do, the Worth family - I pray that you are right. (tense music) - Diana? I bid you farewell. (birds chirp) (door squeaks) - [Diana] The good news that it was good riddance We were unsure what our new life would be, but at least for the the bad news is we didn't know what to expect from our new master. Was he pleasant, was he a mean character? Could he harm us? (clock ticking) - My wife is out at the and will be back later this month and I must tell you, and This is only temporary, I am - Excuse me, sir? Did you say my family? - I'm a friend of your family in Nantucket and I have temporarily bought you so that your sister Ann can raise the necessary funds for your freedom. I am expecting the money soon. Here's the letter. I know you can read, see for yourself. (Diana laughs) (uplifting music) (insects chirp) (birds chirp) - What's the first thing you're going to do with your freedom? - I'm going to watch the sunset. Not get in trouble. I am going to keep up with my studies and I'm going to read more books. - That sounds great. (birds chirp) - And I'm gonna write to you, I promise. - [Julia] The money has been exchanged. (gentle music) - How do you feel? - I know it's all we I wish it was more. Reverend Crawford has I shouldn't complain. - You are not complaining. - He's quit his job to All with an invalid mother I owe him so much. And Diana, how will she cope? - We just have to keep going. Don't give up, remember, hmm? (emotional music) (footsteps patter) - He's back, mama! - Maybe today, we will see. - Well, hello Cornelia, - You've got the money? - [Mr. Worth] Yes. - What's wrong? - [Mr. Worth] It's only - What? No! They're trying to raise more. - Then take Cornelia, take Cornelia. - That won't work. You have no choice, Diana. I have signed a contract, It's in the deal. - No, I won't let you take me! (dramatic music) Cornelia, could you take over for awhile? - [Cornelia] It was around my mother, aunt Ann and It was as if their dispositions I think my aunts could The guilt, the pain of Inevitably, the day arrived, and mama was forced to gather her things. - I don't care where I'm going. Look at me. New York, Massachusetts, It doesn't matter. I won't be free until you - It's all right, mama. - No, it's not all right, it's all wrong! It's all wrong. - But this isn't goodbye. We will see each other again, I know it. I'm strong, mama. You are, baby. I'm just sorry I couldn't save you. I couldn't protect you. I tried. - Time to go. (emotional music) (leaves rustle) (horse neighs) (hooves clopping) (door squeals) (footsteps patter) (leaves rustling) (birds calling) - I've lived by the rivers all of my life. This one's different. - How so? more mysterious. - I'm sure it certainly I did hear it's about 40 feet deep. It looks calm and serene, With a treacherous current. There are so many twists and turns, offshoots with tall grasses. Many people have gotten lost, and even disappeared in it's labyrinth. (birds calling) - My word. You know a lot about - I thought it was, I thought it was an sailing especially. - Okay, genius. What don't you know? (birds calling) - How I'll take away your sadness. - Yes, well, I'm glad you found me here. I'm thinking of running away. What do you think? - I understand the strong but I would wait a while Take some time to assess your options. (birds calling) Escape is all about the timing. - All right, Wilby. (footsteps patter) - They should be here by now. - Hey, hey. Making it to the city for the first time, might've slowed them down, hmm? - It'll certainly be more (hand knocking) Please, come in. (emotional music) - Diana. I know, Cornelia. We will save your daughter. - I believe you. We have a plan to save your daughter. - You must tell me. Thank you. Meet Henry. - Diana, pleasure to meet you. - The pleasure is mine. - [Diana] It was then that I and the Society of Friends, and how our prayers had been answered. Mr. Tappan received 645 enough for Cornelia's ransom. Soon after, I made my way to Ann, for another emotional reunion, and an embrace of 30 lost years. (emotional music) The feelings were overwhelming. But with the numerous celebrations, at the back of all our minds was Cornelia. Ann told me some troublesome news. They hadn't heard from They received no letters, and no responses to the ones they sent. Something had to be done at once. - Reverend Crawford, It's quite dangerous, but if you agree, you must - I am at your disposal. (tense music) (door squeals) - He always wanted to visit New York. - Ann? I know this is an immense sacrifice. That's a brave man. - The problem is, he doesn't I worry that he won't be able to, to play the role of a heartless - Ann, I want to thank you. - Diana. We never forgot you. It's just that... Oh, dear, you've gotten me going. It's just that we didn't but now we can. (hooves clop) - Reverend James will be back in a minute. He's out buying gifts for his wife. - Still not a word from Worth? - Hmm... You really think Crawford He probably would be - He has pushed me to volunteer, - In that case, we need to - I agree. (curious music) (Crawford knocking) - Hello? (Skeptical &quot;hmm&quot; all around) - You sure you're ready for this? - Yes. - Then you're gonna have to Godspeed, my brother. What's this? - Gifts for Ann, and my will. - [Conductor] All aboard! (whistle blows) - Thank you, Henry. - [Diana] And just like Everything started to move in fast motion like the second hand in a watch piece. Time was ticking down with and much to lose. - Wilby, Wilby! - Wilby! (tool bangs) Hey, Gould. - Someone out here - I'm so sorry if I gotten you in trouble. - It's okay, what's going on? Mr. Worth, the lying rat is selling me, some planter is picking me up today. - Cornelia... - I just wanted to say goodbye. Here. I wrote you this, I must - No. - Cornelia! (horse snorts) - The station, sir, post haste. (horse neighs) (tense music) (hooves clopping) - Oh mama. - Oh dear girl, don't despair, Cornelia. I'm your aunt Ann's husband, your uncle. I am not a plantation owner. I'm here to help you and get - You're my uncle? The Reverend James E. I'm a colored man, my mother's a Negro. - What? - Shh, we're almost at the station. - [Cornelia] Dear Wilby, your kindness has given me strength. Wherever I am, be sure to know and that I hope to again through letters and someday, God willing, in person. Very truly yours, Cornelia. - [Diana] And with a new Wilby was to begin his (tense music) (paper rustles) All I can say is, that there was no turning back. (footsteps pattering) - [George] Wilby! Wilby! - [Wilby] I'm here, - [Andrew] You smell like vomit. - Just get in the boat! (train hissing) (bell ringing) - [Diana] Cornelia would or worse if they found out with a man pretending to be white. (tense music) (water splashing) They take turns rowing. It's a race for time before dawn breaks, but they can't put up their sail, or they will be spotted right away. (water splashing) - What on God's earth, Wilby? Why would you bring old man Are you crazy? Well, I thought- (train hissing) - Hey! Stop that man! You, sir. (tense music) (men breathing hard) - [Andrew] What's our time? - Four hours until daybreak. - We're not gonna make it. - [George] Faster, faster! - [Andrew] Wait, what's that? (insects chirping) (tense music) (stranger murmuring) - [Wilby] Turn off your light, quick. (water trickles) (boat creaks) (toad croaking) (strangers murmuring) Who are they? - [George] Shh! (strangers murmuring) - [Wilby] Fisherman. (fisherman murmuring) Whew. (tense music) - You dropped these, all You need these get on - Oh, yes, yes. Thank you, thank you, sir. (thunder rumbling) You can't ride in the passenger car. You have to hide in the baggage car. - Okay. - And Cornelia, pretend you hate me. It focuses the mind. - [Conductor] All aboard! (bell ringing) - There it is, Fort Fisher! I see search lanterns, this isn't good. What are we going to do? - [George] Let's just hope (water splashing) (tense music) It's now or never, boys. (train hissing) (door creaks) (train hissing) (suitcase clatters) (bag rustles) (door rattles) (door rattles) (whistle blows) (train hissing) (water splashing) - [George] Okay, it's time for the sail, we've left the mouth. - [Andrew] No way to hide now. - [Wilby] Ship coming port - [George] We'll find out soon enough. - [Diana] It's either a Whatever the answer, their lives are about (train chugging) (whistle blows) - Harpers Ferry, Frederick, Baltimore, York, Winchester. Harpers Ferry, Frederick, Baltimore, York, Winchester. Harpers Ferry, Baltimore, Baltimore... - York! (whistle blows) (train hissing and clanking) (train creaking) (train hissing) (door rattles) (Cornelia pants) - Come from behind there, girl. I know you're here. No, no, no, no, no, it's okay. It's okay, hello. I just have a message for you. From the nice man in coach. That's right, Mr. Crawford Do you need some water? (gentle music) Oh, no, whoa, whoa, whoa, not so much. You don't have nowhere You have like five more stops. You're almost there, just keep hope. - I will, thank you. (door rattles) - Everyone, keep, keep still. - That can't be stars and bars, is it? - Boys, I believe it's - Ahoy! - [Man] Wilby, what are you doing? - So we don't get shot at. Ahoy! (men screaming) (train hissing) - They should have been here by now. This is my fault. My fault. - [Henry] What are you - [Julia] No one else. We are all responsible. - I do not think I will To face Diana. (cries) I failed, Henry. - It will be all right. - It's gonna be all right. (distant noise) - Excuse me. (emotional music) Cornelia? You look just like your mother. - [Diana] Cornelia was finally coming home and my sister Julia a small moment of peace. Wilby, he decided to And as he put it, &quot;Fight It wasn't all roses. Both Wilby and Cornelia to a new way of life. - You wait your turn, (whistle blows) (intercom murmuring) (horn blowing) (Wilby crunching) (seagulls calling) - Mail call. Gould, and Mitchell. (Wilby inhales) (man laughs) Oh, Cornelia, oh, Cornelia Oh, Cornelia, my love (men laughing) - [Diana] It was February Island Home proudly chugged with my baby aboard. A descendant of mine wrote a It's about Cornelia sailing called &quot;The Tern.&quot; &quot;The tern stood on the jetty facing Coatue and waited for the day to grow A scooner still stinking of and the hurrahs of men and little babies for the into descendant forms, the end of work, the hour of hearth fires, blessings and heaps of shocked shells. But reading the signs he longed for, at least not here. He bent his body to partner with the wind. And at last, Cornelia came into the harbor for the first time, silent, with eyes shining, the day (dramatic music) - By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you man and wife. You may kiss the bride. (emotional music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) Move, Move, Move, Move If I don't have a place to go I know that I can follow you If my bones decide too move to slow I'm only falling for you There's a God that sits He wipe my tears And swiped the made the He built my spirit And said there's no point to hide That's inner fear and He But I live here, he said No your breath is mine But I'm not free He said, so your hand is mine Put your hand in mine Put your trust in me My love is more than love could mean Darling And Luckily I'm your king I know just where your heart is Adjust with me, don't fuss with me I know it's kinda hard And the unjust you've seen Obstructed things so And move Move Move Move It's time to move, it's time to move We're going far away Move, it's time to move We getting out of here Move, it's time to move We going far away Move, it's time to move We getting out of here So it's time to simply go And move I said, it's time to simply move Let's move, let's move, yeah Move It's time to move, it's time to move We getting out of here Move, it's time to move We going far away Move, it's time to move We getting out of here Move, it's time to move We going far away Move Move