My name is Shaun Attwood. I smuggled over into America from Holland. This is how crime works. At the height of the ecstasy ring, I had about 200 people working for me. Largest-ever shipment was 40,000 pills, and we were competing against an underboss for the Gambino crime family, &quot;Sammy the Bull&quot; Gravano. When I was active, the capital for ecstasy Five of the most common ones back then were white doves, Mitsubishis, euro dollars, Teletubbies, dollar signs. A pure ecstasy pill should of MDMA and clay. So, they put the powder into the press, and it comes out with a logo on it. The recipe for ecstasy has changed because the government has clamped down on the original ingredients for ecstasy. So, you've got these cartels who don't care about the putting all kinds of mixed chemicals in. People sometimes put food coloring in them to make a distinct branding. Most of the pills that had were not the pure presses, the base presses from Holland. Every time a new pill came out, people would say, &quot;This is the bomb,&quot; &quot;This has got double-stacked MDMA in it.&quot; But generally, if it's 100 you're going to get the same hit. At the height of the ecstasy operation, we could commission a pill to but we opted not to because we believed it would On the website DanceSafe, they had all of the pills, photos of them, and they gave the exact So we were already in very good standing for the quality of our product. I was there when the rave I knew everybody. It was all the local little to invest in the parties and the E deals. The first clubs I scored individually from was a little rave called Chupa and the Silver Dollar Club. We were getting them for, This is 1996, 1997. So we set up a deal whereby, I can't remember if it for just over $10 a pill. So that's when we meet demand to get greater quantities and to get them at reduced To source pills from Holland, I had to put people on flights with the testing kits They would find the people and they would come home with the samples. And if the samples were good, then the person would go back out and we would establish It's very covert. It's all done in hotel rooms. People show up. You got your testing kit. They hand over the pills; you hand over the bills. You don't know a lot of as to what's going on, and that's probably to that are running it. Once we started to source we were getting tens of but we didn't have to do it as often then. It might be every month, every couple of months, Wild Man, my best friend from childhood, became my main bodyguard in Arizona. When Wild Man was on his first stay, he opened the door into contacts I wouldn't have made. And I got to meet all these characters. And one of them in particular, he was in a situation with the cops, and we protected him, and he said, &quot;From now on, me and my And that was the New Mexican Mafia. We were schooled by the New Mexican Mafia. This is the most powerful, dangerous mafia in Arizona at the time. They tried to assassinate the head of the Department of Corrections. They said to me, &quot;Shaun, if you get pulled over leaving our house, the cops don't have a right unless they have probable cause. They're going to ask you, You can say, 'No, I'm in a hurry.' And if they insist on and they find something that is the fruit of the forbidden tree. We will post your bail bond right away, we will have a lawyer come and the lawyer will tell what kind of trouble you are in.&quot; The reason I wasn't bumping and I wasn't bumping heads they had harder drugs locked down. I was never in competition with them. So, in the beginning from Holland, we were doing it through the mail. We hollowed out stock and we used some edible And then they'd be put in a box and FedExed to an address in Arizona. And we had various addresses. I flew people over from the UK, built up credit in their names, rented houses in their names, and bought cars in their names, all for use within the We would go from Hermosillo Airport. We would fly over to Mexico City. Then you could take Air France to Paris, and then you'd get the Back then, this was before 9/11. This may sound really but you could just throw in, like, pillowcases, thousands Now, it was more strategic than just them getting off and then coming over the Arizona border. We rented properties in and the smugglers who would take them to those locations. Then the pills would be and smugglers that had, for University of Arizona stickers on them, diving tanks, all kinds And in particular, if it was spring break or one of the student holidays, the checkpoints were so backed up. They were so overwhelmed. You know, you got so We never, ever got caught bringing them over the Arizona border. It was flawless. &quot;Better Call Saul,&quot; these people exist. They may seem like stereotypes, but they're based on what's I mean, there's so much money in drugs. So, I was No. 1. I was coordinating the operations. Wild Woman was No. 2. She's from Liverpool. Wild Man was No. 3. Three English people at the top. The rest were all local Mostly, people originated in Arizona. We had it structured like a corporation. I divided it into factions. So then you've got the they've got middle people, and they've got runners at the street level. In my enterprise, the not snitching, passing If you found anything out at that information gets I chose people primarily who My right-hand man, Cody he hired cars and rented houses just for cash and pills I'm living in a million-dollar the most beautiful place in a gated, guarded community. As more people work for me, I realized it was in the best interest to spread the product out amongst various factions. So, as soon as a shipment came in that was tens of thousands, we'd want to get that out right away, spread out to the different locations. Because if one gets hit, with 2,000 pills, that's no big deal. That's the cost of doing business. But if we've got 40,000 in one house and that gets hit, that's a serious loss. At the height of it, we had people from other Even people would fly from Chicago and states on the other side We had pagers. Never spoke about big deals Cody Bates, he had the house where the cash was that nobody knew about, and he would do the rounds. So, he would drop off to pick up the cash. If everything was going If there were problems, that's where we'd bring and they would handle the With the shipment that was 40,000 pills, let's say I'm getting $10 and I'm paying $2 to $3. I'm making $7 or $8 on 40,000, which is a couple hundred from one mission. To launder the money, I opened stock market, bank accounts, and credit accounts in their names. Slowly built all this credit up and kept all this money whereby I hadn't done But once the enterprise was massive and I knew I had to burn and these names, I just in rave clothing and music stores. Now, if you're a store that throws raves, then when you've thrown you've got tens of thousands in cash going in the bank on Monday. You add my ecstasy proceeds to that. We're getting the money Before Sammy the Bull I had a reputation for getting the white and beige And that was the primary to the raves and to the clubs. What you've got to bear if Sammy the Bull Gravano this is the Italian Mafia, But that's not true. Sammy the Bull is a formidable He murdered people, But he was the highest-ranking to turn sides and testify and cooperate. And he went against Gotti. I did something that was silly. We found a property that to Sammy the Bull's people. And we all got strapped up and kicked the door in and held the people and took all their stuff as an act of, you know, showing that if something's going to happen to you guys. But I regretted doing that. I shouldn't have never put because kicking someone's door with a gun where they and just shot us all, that was drug-fueled insanity, It made things worse. There They were offering $10,000 for In prison, Sammy the Bull Gravano's son told me that someone had called it in in Phoenix, The Crowbar, it's called. I was there with G-Dog, Wild Man, and some of my crew, Wild Woman. A strip-tease woman had spotted me. There was a bounty on and they were in a car coming G-Dog, Wild Man advised me to leave because they'd sensed the And I got out of there just before Gravano's son Gerard arrived. He said that if the they were going to kill me, and that would've just Sammy the Bull's enterprise came up, did big numbers, lit the scene up, had all the runners running saying, &quot;We're the biggest drug barons in the history of the world,&quot; these steroid-head jock characters, which totally brought And that's why he got popped So, I mean, I was thanking basically, in my mind. But all of those resources It was May 16th, 2002, I thought once I quit the importation, I got away with it. I thought they had catch All it takes is someone from the statute of limitations, they've done a deal with Don't need the drugs. We used the lawyer from He was a loophole lawyer. And that's how we got to 9 1/2 years without snitching. My first jail was Towers Jail, where the neo-Nazis come up to me. To join the gang, to be a member, you have to murder someone for them. There are very few members. There are a lot of probates, associates, people putting work in for them that are running the system for them. Arizona, the four major prison gangs, it's all racially divided. The whites is the Aryan Brotherhood. The Blacks is the Mau Mau. The Mexican nationals have their own gang. And then you've got the Chicanos, which are the Mexican Americans. You've got the Native Americans as well. And then anyone who doesn't because it's just raw Being deep in the Arizona jail system, the absolute priority of all of the gangs is to keep the drugs You've got the staff You've got the visitors They do not want anything to disrupt that. I've done some PSA videos, Be careful what you say. Don't brag. Don't let them Don't let them know you've got resources. Two months after my arrest, there was a story in &quot;English Shaun's Evil The neo-Nazis caught wind of this, and then they were pressuring to smuggle drugs in through visitation because I must have all Fortunately, there was a race riot, and those guys who were trying and I cliqued up with and that pressure on me ended. I end up in a jail run by a famous sheriff Over time, you just saw Young people coming in becoming harder criminals. It is a college of crime. The conditions in that jail, the cockroaches, the the guards murdering the prisoners. For the vast majority of the there was no hope. But that's what keeps The illegal black market in drugs created by drug laws is so vast. And now we've got hundreds of and all this knife crime in London. This is what the cops are telling us revolves around young people competing for the black-market profits I was operating during a of the introduction of ecstasy to America. Now everything is monopolized and it doesn't matter who gets They always have the resources to keep the drugs flowing. I lost absolutely everything. Spent six years incarcerated. There's a clip where I'm I think it's Gatwick or Heathrow, and I'm all shell-shocked Mom's crying in the Stayed at my parents' house for a year. The dole was sending me on, like, telesales interviews and stuff like that. I'd tell them, you know, Couldn't get a job. Dole's telling me you've telling them you've not or you're never going to get a job. But a year later, I Lived with DJ Mike Hot Wheels, Lived in his bedroom for 10 years just doing my blog, building my socials. We started the blog in 2004, started the YouTube channel in 2007. It was the first prison YouTube channel. I'd go up and down the the most interesting people. So many wonderful people came into my life to give me a leg up and And I feel it's my karmic destiny now that we've got this platform to help other guys share their story. It was the late 1980s, and all of a sudden, on there was these stories young people who were wide-eyed, wearing baggy jeans with, like, acid, LSD logos on them and stuff. In my economics class, I had a mate. He's like, &quot;You need to And then we went to the Thunderdome, Oldham Road, Manchester. So he was like, &quot;Bear with me. I'll go and get you the stuff.&quot; So, I took the pill, and then once I started I never wanted the party to end. And I was like, &quot;Whew, And that's how raving became my religion. So, going back generations of my family, some settled in Chicago, some retired in Arizona. I had two aunts. Two of my dad's sisters and one of them I would visit as a kid. When the airplane comes and you see all the swimming So I was already thinking, &quot;Hm, I might want some of this That's what I did. If I could go back and tell it would be stay on the path of slow and steady progress in life. I started following the I was worth a couple of million in the stock market in my late 20s. That was before all this drug activity. I didn't need the money. It was ego. My ego was as big as the Grand Pablo Escobar was worth billions. His brother said, &quot;Let's and kick back and not get and not spend the rest Pablo said, &quot;I put the president in power. I've got 10,000 people working for me. You want me to kick back It's not money. It's ego and being a