- Christianity today has a new trinity. It's called God the Father, God the Son The Holy Spirit has become The Holy Spirit in the Pentecostal circles In charismatic circles, He's been reduced But the Holy Spirit is the most God sent the Holy Spirit so that disciples knew Jesus. The same way disciples knew Jesus, is the same way God the Father and the Son expects you and I to know the Holy Spirit. Disciples were not professionals. Disciples were not priests. Disciples were not religious elites. They were normal, average, in fact, But because they spent time, in three and a half years, The Holy Spirit is given today You don't have to occupy you don't have to have your dad didn't have to be a pastor, and your mom does not The Holy Spirit is given to you. And you can have the same disciples had with Jesus. Your life can change if you learn to cultivate the And that's what I would like How to cultivate relationship And so if you are taking notes I like to give points-- it's just the way I am. And so, you can write things down. Note-takers are history makers. And if you don't take notes, Because I see some people, all of their notes is It's like, &quot;In this way I'll I just put a point with a pastor's or those of you Instagram influencers, you're looking for that proper and you know, God bless you Whatever that helps you to remember. Book of Acts 3:2 &quot;A certain man lame from his &quot;whom they laid daily at the gate of &quot;to ask alms from those &quot;who, seeing Peter and John about &quot;And fixing his eyes on him, &quot;So he gave them his attention, &quot;Then Peter said, "Silver and gold I do &quot;In the name of Jesus Christ I'm going to take an The little interpretation of this story is he was brought to the if I could use it like that, to ask for donations, and Peter and John was That does not mean that It's just that day they were and instead of giving this man they raised this man Application from this story, I would like to apply today Because like this man, many people in this room, watching us on YouTube and Facebook, Christians in general, Lame not in a sense the you know, #lame, not that lame. I'm talking about lame is He had legs, they didn't walk. Legs came with birth, walking When you are born, you get legs, right? Legs don't come two You don't get born and then you stopped pooping, crying, whining, and then the Almighty God as an addition or an upgrade No! You didn't earn them, you didn't apply for them, at your birth, you were born with legs. At the same time, at your birth, you you got dragged out. And nobody in this room walked You got carried from Why? Because these legs though they came Walking with them did not come at birth. It took time, it took falling, it took exercise, it took looking at other tall people &quot;I don't have to crawl, &quot;I don't have to be carried. &quot;One day this little tiny &quot;And not only they can carry me, and these legs can carry me.&quot; Every Christian, when God gave them Holy Spirit at During your first birth, you got legs. During your second birth, The Holy Spirit did not come contrary to Pentecostal opinion. Holy Spirit did not come Holy Spirit did not come as an upgrade Holy Spirit did not come Holy Spirit did not come when you Holy Spirit did not even come when you He came at the time of your salvation. Somebody give God some (congregation applauds) Write this down, point number one; Every Christian has the Holy Spirit but not Every Christian has the Holy Spirit, not Some of us have the Holy Spirit, in the same way a We have them, we are aware of them, it's just we don't know what to do with it. And the only reality of who is that I speak in tongues. &quot;I got the tongues.&quot; I remember one person says, And I said, &quot;When?&quot; &quot;When I spoke in tongues.&quot; And that's a whole ceiling of Who is a Christian who has the Holy Spirit Few things you can mark they carry the Holy Spirit, They have the Holy Spirit, They.. They get brought to church. They constantly beg for secondary things. There's something missing And they live their life Pulling everything through Imagine for a moment how if you did not have Can you imagine how many without the use of your legs? Would you be able to carry your Would you be able to cook Would you be able to move around Your life will be so restricted The lame man had legs, Many Christians today, their life does not And it's not because they it's because they don't You may think walking with in the to the elites. If walking in the Holy Spirit bishop, apostle, then does walking physically belong to the Walking with legs belongs Walking in the Holy Spirit responsibility and a You might not preach on a stage, you might not even have a small group, you might not have a ministry in the eyes of somebody else, but the Holy Spirit was given to you but so that you can So you can have Him carry So you can have Him enable So that Christian life is not That Christian life is not That there are things in your life Not because you're but because you are simply a normal Amen. Point number two: To walk in the Holy Spirit, we To walk in the Holy Spirit, we have to talk to the Holy Spirit. The shift that happens in our is when He stops being oil, an attitude, an atmosphere, force, power, or some kind of a hot heat, See, the Holy Spirit can but the Holy Spirit is The Holy Spirit is a person. The Holy Spirit is God and He is a person. Jesus said, &quot;I will send another.&quot; The word another is the same word Chick-fil-A for example. And you got yourself a sandwich, and you come back to the person on Meaning exactly same sandwich I just ate. Another sandwich. And what that means is this. Now it's not the same one that you just ate But it's exactly same thing that When Jesus says, &quot;I will send you another,&quot; what does that mean? That means the same way He lived with (congregation applauds) The same way... disciples didn't pray to Jesus, People ask me, &quot;Can you Of course you can. But He wasn't given to you He was given to you He was given to you He's living with you right now the The greatest event that happened was not when Jesus lived with disciples, Jesus was with disciples physically denied Him, forsook Him When the Spirit came none of them left Jesus. He was no longer physically with them but none of them was shook They died for Him, and they shook their cities for Him. Holy Spirit with you is That's why He said, &quot;It is because if I don't go He will not come.&quot; My friend today you have access to It's called the Holy Spirit. (congregation applauds) He wants to be to you what But in order to walk in the Holy Spirit, But let me break this down a little bit. In order to talk to the Holy Spirit, you have to stop seeing Him You have to see Him as a person because that's who He is. He is a being with a personality. He's not a ghost. He's not a force, a wind, He is a being with a personality. He's as real as you are. And not only the but this is what you is this person, the Holy Spirit, has a gift for you. This gift is not tongues, this gift is not even word of knowledge, this gift is not even conviction of sin, this gift is not even healing This gift according to Corinthians, it says the love of God and the Watch this, it does not say The same way it does not say but love of God, grace of Jesus That means it's something not something we give to them. God the Father gives you love. And you get filled with His love. Your daddy might not have he provided for you But you come to our heavenly Jesus says, Come back. Come to Me. And Jesus gives you grace. Grace is not mercy. Mercy is if you were speeding and Grace is if you were speeding and That's grace. It's getting So Jesus gives you grace and then And the Holy Spirit says, You're like, &quot;Holy Spirit I'm so full He says, &quot;Listen, what I It's the main thing.&quot; &quot;Holy Spirit what do I go to Pentecostal church, Holy Spirit says, &quot;No, no, no. Fellowship of the Holy Spirit.&quot; Meaning I want to be to you Many of us we get the love Holy Spirit has fellowship to give to you. What does that mean? That means He wants to than you will ever want And you know what the &quot;And the fellowship of be with you...&quot; Not always but with you all. Let's read that verse. 2 Corinthians 13:14 &quot;The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, &quot;and the love of God, and the communion of the Turn to your neighbor All in Greek means all. In Hebrew it also means all. You know what all means? It means that last person that's you are included in that. The person that's sits on the third All means you. Meaning the Holy Spirit It's interesting when we think of the None of us ever disqualify We're like, &quot; Man, I'm Why? &quot;Because I need that love.&quot; When we think of grace, The moment it gets to the Holy Spirit, most of us right away say, &quot;He's Holy, &quot;and I'm everything but not holy. And that doesn't belong to me.&quot; I want to tell you something. The fellowship of the the same way the the love belongs to you. And you can't walk in the Holy Spirit But you will never talk to the Holy Spirit until you remove this garbage out of That somehow you are not spiritual enough. That somehow you are not worthy enough. That somehow you've messed up too much. Somehow you are so inconsistent, you keep loosing Bible streaks You're so inconsistent Man, if you would only then the Holy Spirit Then the Holy Spirit will If would have only not instead of finish at the end then the Holy Spirit will All means all. Those who fast and those who don't. Those who pray and those who don't. Those who read the Word All of us are included. We don't try to be holy We live in the Holy Spirit I want to encourage you today, relationship with the Holy Spirit is Everything else flows out of that. Miracles flow out of that, breakthrough flows out of that. I remember when I traveled We took all the money that we had, it was a crisis in our ministry, crisis in my personal life, nothing bad was happening, it's just nothing good was happening. That was my crisis. What I was reading in the Bible We went for years without seeing We went for six months without You know, I could count when I prayed for them and it would only take two fingers. Yes, we prayed there with the water but when we prayed without it, When the youth group was very very small, and I don't have a problem with small but I know that God had more And there was this crisis in me. We took all of the money that We were saving that for a house. And we flew-- I knew a minister 400, 500 people were getting demons were coming out, churches were being &quot;Man, I want to see like 0.5% And I remember we came, we laid and we got on our knees &quot;I don't want the money, &quot;I don't want the house, I just want God to move.&quot; He got me up and he said, he says, &quot;You're missing the whole point.&quot; He said, &quot;You don't need miracles. &quot;You don't need power.&quot; He says, &quot;You already have the power.&quot; He says, &quot;You just don't I was like, &quot;What do you mean I was like, &quot;I'm Pentecostal.&quot; Like, &quot;We got Holy Spirit figured out.&quot; Like, &quot;He actually only belongs to us.&quot; Of course, I never said that to him I was like, &quot;What do you mean &quot;I've read five books &quot;The top books on the &quot;I taught on the Holy Spirit. I speak in tongues.&quot; And I remember he said this, he says, &quot;I'm not going to pray He says, &quot;I will pray that God will help And I honestly felt when I came home All I needed to do is learn how to walk. I came back, six months later, you know, no miracle started to happen but I'm talking about He became I would set up a chair in my Now, it was only symbolic to help I would begin to talk I would begin to talk to Him It wasn't that I prayed more, it was just something this He became so real. He became so personal. And something started to happen; I started to feel His I felt His presence before And then His anointing started to flow. People started getting saved. People started getting healed. We started to experience more deliverance. The church started to grow. Today, since that point, we don't see one And I can tell you, the secret And this is the amazing part, You don't have Holy Spirit junior. You don't have Holy Spirit the weak one. You don't have the Holy Spirit, You have the same Holy Spirit Jesus had. You have the same Holy Spirit I have. I have the same Holy Spirit But the problem with us is that from the fact the Holy Spirit He wants us. He loves us. And we're not bad enough, we're not weak enough, we are not inconsistent enough. We sometimes look at people like, &quot;If I would fast 40 days. If I would give all my money, Listen, He wants you the way you are. He loves you. Look at the kind of knuckleheads Those guys were weirdos. Those guys were crazies. Those guys were not perfect. They were immature. They were arrogant. They were ego driven, insecure, If you're like disciples, Allow Him. Your life will change. Your life will change if the Speaking in tongues is not enough if you don't know Him as a person. I had this.. this guy, he's a marine. He lives in Hawaii right now. He got saved in our ministry, our Nufo. Nufo, we call him Nufo. He got saved, it was at the time me and my wife by the church, and I went to speak in Minnesota. I think it was Minnesota. We didn't have a TV, and so he went and And put it in my house, and I come back and he was like, I said, &quot;TV in my house I was like, &quot;I don't think I was like, &quot;But while you figure out (laughs) A year later, Nufo moves to Hawaii. I lost contact with Nufo. But do you know that I use that TV still? You know it's possible and have absolutely zero close You can use the gift, and not know the person. I want you to go from to speaking to the Holy Spirit. Getting to know the Holy Spirit. I'm all for speaking in tongues. But God has His gift called What does that look like? It's when you talk. How do you fellowship with your wife? People ask me, &quot;So what That's like you coming to me and say, I don't know? That's your wife. I don't know, whatever you want. &quot;I mean, but is there It's the same way if you &quot;Is there anything I I'll say, &quot;Well, that's if there are things The Holy Spirit is your closest friend. You can talk to Him about anything. You don't have to have You can talk to Him in the car, you can talk to Him in your bed, you can talk to Him in the morning. The moment you wake up let first Holy Spirit help me.&quot; You don't have to feel tingling. Feathers don't have to fly from heaven. Gold dust doesn't have to hit your bed set, just talk to the Holy Spirit. If you want to walk in the Holy Spirit, But to talk to the Holy Spirit, you have to break every &quot; You're not good enough.&quot; Remove every garbage thought in your You're not precious enough, Get that out of your head. He loves you more than you imagine. He wants to be with you He is your Holy Spirit. He is with you, He is in you and He will Can somebody say amen? And then the last thought Is in Galatians, it says, &quot;I say walk in the Holy Spirit,&quot; Paul says, &quot;and you will not fulfill The last thing that I Walking in the Holy Spirit, is the secret to Deliverance is one thing. But see deliverance I wish it would have done. But deliverance cast demons out, deliverance does not cast the flesh out. Every person has a flesh. And there's a problem because But there's a better way It's not to fight your flesh, it's to walk in the Holy Spirit. And the Bible says, &quot;You will not Notice it doesn't say you Notice it says, &quot;You won't And notice that it doesn't say, don't fulfill lust of the flesh so Which is how many of us read this verse. &quot;If I can only stop watching this. &quot;If I can only stop doing this. &quot;If I could only start doing then I can walk in the Holy Spirit.&quot; Actually, it's the other way around. If you could only walk in the Holy Spirit, then you will stop doing this, start doing this and start doing this. (music) You are ready right now Everything else that you're and you say, &quot;This area needs to change. In fact, those areas will until you walk in the Holy Spirit. Walking in the Holy Spirit the temptation of the flesh. Holiness is not a result of striving, it's a result of surrender. Righteousness, walking righteous, But walking righteous is not it's a result of surrender. That's why the character of a Christian It's called the fruit... (Music) You know what that means? As long as you're working on it, it's not His fruit, it's your work of the flesh. Many of us we work on our character. And guess what we get? Anger, wrath and jealousy. Why? That's the work of the flesh. When you work on it, it will produce work of the flesh. If you stop working on your character and start working on your relationship, Holy Spirit will affect your character and He will get the credit. And it will be called Not the fruit of prayer, not the fruit of fasting, not the fruit of Bible reading, not the fruit of church attendance, not the fruit I tried harder, not the fruit of therapy, not the fruit of counseling, the fruit of the Holy Ghost. People will say, &quot;Why are you so peaceful?&quot; And you wouldn't say, Or &quot;Well, it's because It will be the Holy Spirit. And see that's the problem with many of us. Our character is a mess Let it shock you. If you want to destroy Jesus never told disciples He just called them to follow Him. And He says, &quot;I will make you.&quot; He said, &quot;Abide and you will bear fruit.&quot; We take all of our energy He says, &quot;Take that energy and watch Me change your character.&quot; And then you'll be able to say, &quot;He worked on it. &quot;He helped me to be more patient. &quot;He helped me to be more loving. &quot;He helped me to be more self-controlled. &quot;He helped me to be generous &quot;Not because I worked on myself, &quot;but because I maintained and He changed me as a result.&quot; Never once you see in three years In fact, they had a lot of issues. You know the only thing that they did? Stayed with Jesus. He changed them. He would change it the whole -- I'm not in any way saying that I'm not saying you need What I'm saying is that take the and put all of that emphasis I guarantee you, money back guaranteed, your character will change. All the husbands, I know you forget to hug You forget maybe this and forget that. And you're like, &quot;Man I need to become I need to become a better husband.&quot; No,no, no, no. You need to become a better When you become a better you will be a better husband. Being a better husband And then on top of that, your wife tells You're like, &quot;Oh my God, being a Being a better father is a lot harder.&quot; And then you go to work, you You need to be a nicer manager. &quot;Come on! Can you stop &quot;You're so harsh. Your words are so piercy. You need to become a better boss.&quot; And then every place you go, you And I feel like, &quot;Man, I'm tired!&quot; You're like, &quot;Man, I quit.&quot; And God's like, &quot;Finally!&quot; &quot;Do one thing,&quot; God says. &quot;Become better with Me.&quot; What about the other areas? Trust me, God knows how to touch You tried your way, It doesn't work. I give you a challenge; for the rest of this year, come to your spouse and say, I stop doing that but I'm going to start I remember a young man I &quot;Vlad, marriage is on the rocks. It's very challenging.&quot; And I said, &quot;What's happening?&quot; And he said, &quot;I don't know? &quot;I'm like a closed book. I don't want to open up.&quot; I was like, &quot;You've been married for so long. How were you before?&quot; He said, &quot;I don't know what happened. &quot;I'm closed. &quot;I feel like I'm losing her. &quot;She is very heartbroken. I need to work on myself.&quot; And I said, &quot;What about the Holy Spirit He said, &quot;Oh, that's even worse.&quot; I said, &quot;So Holy Spirit is grieved, I said, &quot;Which one He's like, &quot;Well, of course the which is my wife right now.&quot; (music) I said, &quot;That's your problem.&quot; I said, &quot;Work on the one that &quot;When the Holy Spirit &quot;He's not guilt-tripping you, &quot;He's not mad at you. &quot;He's very disappointed &quot;He really misses you right now. &quot;Just come back to Him. Come back to that relationship.&quot; I'm like ,&quot;Whatever that looks &quot;that's between-- And I cannot tell &quot;the same way I cannot tell you what &quot;That's between you and the Holy Spirit. How you connect with Him is your mystery.&quot; But I said,&quot;Come back to Him and &quot;Give a week, &quot;and I can tell you, the Holy Spirit &quot;they will be out of this world. &quot;He will give you attentiveness to her, &quot;Gentleness to her. &quot;He will remind you on the way when &quot;Or Costco on Thursday morning I'm like, &quot;Holy Spirit will make you course or a book could ever make you.&quot; But I was like, &quot;Please &quot;and start first with trying &quot;Walk in the Holy Spirit and you Not, &quot;Don't fulfill the lust of the flesh I want to minister that word today to you. Let's rise.