By the end of this one hour English lesson, of fast English so you can better understand You'll also add common phrasal verbs, idioms, a native speaker. Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Here's how this lesson will work. I'm going to say a sentence three times, and in the comments. After, I'll explain what I said, and I'll place in fast English, and I'll explain the Are you ready for your first listening test? I'll say it three times. She's leaps and bounds more qualified than She's leaps and bounds more qualified than She's leaps and bounds more qualified than I said she's leaps and bounds more qualified Notice the contraction. She's This is she is the verb to be. Native speakers will always contract this. She's she's. Let's talk about leaps and bounds. Notice how bounds the D is not pronounced. Bounds bounce and here when we have and between and bounds. Leaps and leaps and bounds Leaps and bounds. She's leaps and bounds more qualified than Notice how you don't hear the H on him, then But if we want to combine those sounds together Let's talk about what this means. She's more qualified than him. You understand that when I add leaps and bounds, It makes more qualified stronger. So it sounds like greatly more qualified, quickly if that's the context. But in this context it's a modifier that means So you can say I've improved my English by By leaps and bounds here. Notice how you have to include the word by. I've improved my English, and you want to I've improved my English by leaps and bounds, If you feel like my lessons are helping you Jennifer, I've improved my English by leaps Put that in the comments. It's leaps and bounds ahead of mine, which bounds. Birchikan has grown by leaps and bounds. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Is the agenda set in stone? Is the agenda set in stone? Is the agenda set in stone? I said. Is the agenda set in stone? First, let's talk about the agenda. Notice how I have that long E sound the agenda This is not a rule that native speakers always I could equally say the agenda, the agenda, So if you hear both, it's just not something Let's talk about set in stone. Notice we have AT between 2 vowels, so we din din. So I take that sound and I connect it to the din set in set in set in stone. And I'll say all three of those words together, The expression is to be set in stone. In our example, the verb to be is is. It starts the sentence because the sentence Is the agenda set in stone. To be set in stone. When something is set in stone, in this case if not impossible to change. So the agenda could be set in stone because You've booked the hotel room, you've already booked their ticket to come to the event. So it's difficult, if not impossible to change It's set in stone. We commonly use this expression in the negative If I say that to you, it means that I can So perhaps I told you what my plans are and I can say, oh don't worry, our plans aren't my plans. My plans are flexible, so you can use this Because nothing's set in stone. Is that set in stone? These nicknames, are they set in stone? Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. I was tossing and turning all night. I was tossing and turning all night. I was tossing and turning all night. Did you get this one? I said. I was tossing and turning all night. We have and so remember, same thing as before I can change that to. But I have to connect it to the word before. Tossing and tossing and turning. So I will say all three Tossing and turning Tossing and turning. Tossing and turning. Tossing and turning. Now commonly a native speaker will drop the tossing. I personally don't do this, but many native Tossing, tossing, tosing, but same thing. You have that sound. Tossing and turnin. Tossing and turnin or like I said, tossing Tossing and turning. The pronunciation is quite clear, but if you how to communicate. With a native speaker. I was tossing and turning all night to toss This is used to say you had a very restless That is the tossing and turning. That's the movement. You were moving a lot while you were sleeping, If you were tossing and turning all night, So it means right now you're. Tired, You could say. Sorry I'm yawning so much. I tossed and turned all night, and that means That's what's got you tossing and turning. He's always tossing and turning. Then then I spend all night tossing and turning, Are you ready for your next listening exercise? I'll say it three times. Just give it a go and see. Just give it a go and see. Just give it a go and see. Did you get this one? I said just give it a go and see. Let's talk about, give it. We can combine these together. And I'm going to use a sound. Give it vit, vit, give it, give it. So that's how I can say these two words as Give it. And I'll do the same thing with a go. I'll just pronounce it as one word, a go. Give it a go. Give it a go, give it a go. Just give it a go and see What does this mean? To give something, I'll go simply means to So if I say just give it a go, I'm saying Maybe your friend invited you to go dancing I could say just give it a go. Now here the IT is dancing, so I could say Just give dancing a go. Remember in the original example it was. Just give it a go and see. Here the C represents and see what happens. See what happens when you try dancing. Maybe you are really good at it, or maybe much fun you don't even care that you weren't So if you send me a message and say Jennifer, in English. I'll say to you, just give it a go. So I want you to write in the comments right I'll give it a go. Put that in the comments, Jennifer. I'll give it a go. I'll give it a go. Let's give it a go. Let's give it a go and see what the future Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. We have a lot riding on this pitch. We have a lot riding on this pitch. We have a lot riding on this pitch. I said we have a lot riding on this pitch. Notice when I said the sentence fast, I did We have, I didn't say we've a lot. We've a lot riding on this pitch. I didn't say that. I said we have. We have a lot riding on this pitch. That's because in American English, we do We only contract have when it's an auxiliary I could change this and say we've got we've In this case, have is the auxiliary verb. Got is the main verb. So I can form that contraction. We have, we've we've got, we've got a lot You're probably wondering what this means. When you have a lot riding on something, it is, is extremely important to your success, case, the something is this pitch. This pitch is extremely important to this What does? This pitch mean in the business world, a pitch someone to do something or to buy something. So it's extremely important that this pitch, important for the person's overall success, To use a previous expression that you learned, about this pitch. My career is riding on it. Everything is riding on it. Well, this is it, folks. Everything is riding on this pitch. So much rides on this. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you So I'm going to say each sentence again, but And then we'll repeat that three times. So let's do that now. She's leaps and bounds more qualified than She's leaps and bounds more qualified than She's leaps and bounds more qualified than Is the agenda set in stone? Is the agenda set in stone? Is the agenda set in stone? I was tossing and turning all night. I was tossing and turning all night. I was tossing and turning all night. Just give it a go and see. Just give it a go and see. Just give it a go and see. We have a lot riding on this pitch. We have a lot riding on this pitch. We have a lot riding on this pitch. Amazing job. Think of how much you've learned already. And we're just getting started. So let's keep going with the lesson. Remember. I'll say it three times. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. Did you get this one? I said they've been bickering all day. Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice I have they've. This is a contraction. They have. They've, they've, they've native speakers 100% of the time, so you need to be very, it affects the grammar of the sentence you They have been bickering because that shows perfect continuous. So if you didn't have that, it would be grammatically They've been bickering all day now. Notice I said bin bin, a very unstressed bin. This is how we pronounce the past participle I don't speak British English, but I believe stressed bean. But in American English we don't do that. We just say bin bin. They've been, they've been bickering all day. Now, to understand fast English outside of words, but you also have to understand the So let's talk about the verb to bicker. This is when you argue about things that are The concept of bickering is extremely common with people we spend the most time with our Our spouses, husbands and wives, boyfriends, that we spend a lot of time with. Anytime you spend a lot of time with someone, But it's different from fighting. Because when you're fighting with someone, but when you bicker, you don't really have It's less serious because the things you're important. Like I said, this can be very common in the your coworkers. So maybe you're in a meeting and you've been But people start bickering. They start arguing about things that aren't You could say we didn't get anything done We are. We bicker. Yeah, we bicker either. Yeah, well, we were bickering because they Kids are bickering. Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. How'd you do with this one? I said that streets. Pretty sketchy. Did you hear that? Streets. The S Well, that is the verb to be in a contraction The street is the streets. The streets Pretty sketchy. Again, it's extremely important that you hear need the verb to be grammatically. The sentence would sound very awkward if you incorrect that streets pretty sketchy sketchy Let's talk about to be sketchy. That street is our verb to be to be sketchy. This is used to say that something is not So by saying that street's pretty sketchy. I am saying that street doesn't look completely I don't think that street is safe. So I'm saying we shouldn't go down that street. We should avoid that street. Now why would I say this street is sketchy? This is an adjective that native speakers If I say your street's sketchy, it's most There aren't a lot of people around, there's a lot of abandoned buildings on that street. It could be all of those reasons or it could that street doesn't look safe, that street. 'S. Pretty sketchy I could say. Let's take another St. This one looks. Sketchy. So I can also use the verb look look sketchy, This street looks sketchy. Or let's say your friend or your husband or this amazing business proposal today. All we need to do is invest $1000 and we're sounds sketchy. So notice. Here, the verb is to sound sketchy, and you're doesn't sound completely safe. We also use this to describe people. He's a sketchy guy or he's sketchy. She's sketchy. In this case, you're saying. The person isn't safe, which means you can't So with people it's a way of saying I don't She's sketchy. He's sketchy. Seems a little sketchy. You're kind of sketchy laundry to some sketchy Let's try another listening exercise. I'll say it three times. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. Did you get this one? You must have seen it, but notice I didn't to just ah you musta, you musta. I could also reduce it to more of an of sound, You must have. You must have. You must have seen it. Notice for. Seen it? I use that N, that N sound to connect the Seen it? Seen it? Seen it. So you hear a N in front of it. It sounds like NIT. But if you say those two words together, it Seen it, Seen it? You must have seen it. Now let's talk about the grammar of this a Is a modal verb and grammatically you need two. So grammatically you need must have. In written English, you must use must have Because that's grammatically correct. But in spoken English it will sound like must But in written English, if you wrote you must So just remember what I'm explaining is for You must have seen it 200 times. You must have seen it 2:00. You must have seen them here. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? I said, what's the ETA? Of course we have once. That's a contraction of what is what's what's Because ETA. It begins with a vowel sound, EI could. Say either the OR the 'cause we do a more a vowel. But this isn't a rule that native speakers But if I did a more stressed E in the, IT TA and it would almost sound. Like it's just one word, the TA, because I I believe in my example when I did the listening of the ETA and the second time I did it more Let's listen to that again and see what I What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? Now, ultimately, either way that you pronounce Now you're probably wondering, well, what's This stands for Estimated Time of arrival. So your ETA, the ETA or someone somethings someone or something. When it's expected to arrive. So let's say we're talking about a project, will arrive. In his inbox or on his desk, he could say. What's the ETA? And he could just say the If it's obvious say what's your ETA because you're the one Or he could say what's the project's ETA? So the ETA belongs to the project, so you ETA? And they all have the same meaning. We commonly use this with friends or Co workers, going to arrive. So let's say you were supposed to be at your running late. You could send them a text message and say Google says my ETA is 642 or 15 minutes. Now Google says because when you put something Google will tell you or whatever you use. Google will tell you when you're expected That's your ETA. What's their ETA? Okay. ETA. ETA 11 minutes. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you So I'm going to say each sentence again. And then I want you to repeat the sentence as closely as possible. And I'll say each sentence three times. Let's do that right now. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? You are doing such a great job. But let's keep going and let's keep testing So let's start your first listening test. I'll say it three times. Careful with the blender, it's a little finicky. Careful with the blender. It's a little finicky. Be careful with the blender. It's a little finicky. I said careful with the blender. It's a little finicky. First, let's talk about the pronunciation You can see here it's this is a contraction. It is, it's it's a little, it's a little. So we pronounce that as a a soft D little, Now some native speakers will drop those sounds And then we connect it with, ah, a little, I personally pronounce the soft DS a little, It's a little finicky. Finicky is probably a new word in your vocabulary. So let's focus on the sounds. Finn, IC E Now we're going to put the syllable Fin. Finicky. Finicky. Finicky. What does this mean? Well, finicky. This is an adjective to be finicky, and this to detail. So the example is using a blender, a common But if this blender is, it means that to use to detail. Maybe you have to make sure the lid is on in a very specific way in order for the blender Likely because the blender is very old or It's finicky. It's a little finicky. I think it's being so finicky with me these. Machines are really finicky. It's being finicky. Now let's talk about grammar for a second, Started with careful, careful. Technically you need the verb be. Be careful, be careful. But native speakers will commonly drop verbs sentence. So if I said to a native speaker careful, no verb be. They understand what it means without the They're both correct, and a native speaker Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. She's a finicky eater. She's a finicky eater. She's a finicky eater, I said She's a finicky This was easy for you, right? Because it's the same word. Finicky, finicky. So hopefully you could clearly hear that. Now what? The meaning in this context is different. We're not saying she's an eater. That requires a lot of attention to detail. A finicky eater is an eater who is difficult Now, why would an eater be difficult to please? Because there are probably many things that preferences about how her food is prepared. This adjective is commonly used to describe eaters. If you have kids, you can probably relate And you were once a child, so I don't know a finicky eater. When I was a kid, I only liked about 5 things like. If you can relate to, that put me too. Me too in the comments. Me too. So I know that you were also a finicky eater. Good luck with my finicky appetite. Let's try this again. I'll say this sentence three times. The audience was hanging on her every word. The audience was hanging on her every word. The audience was hanging on her every word. I said. The audience was hanging on her every word Notice how on her sounds like honor, honor, Because we frequently drop the H sound on Honor. I can also connect that with every honor, What does this mean to hang on ones every? Word. This is an expression, and it means that you carefully. Now, with expressions, you need to make sure So here it's on her. Every word. So if you said the audience was hanging on make sense. Because with expressions, you have to use So if you are listening to this lesson very participating, then you, my friends, are hanging But if, as you're watching this video, you're or doing something else, then you're not hanging So I hope you're hanging on my every word. If you are, put that in the comments, Jennifer, And that means you're paying very close attention You're hanging on his every word. But he hangs on your every word. They all hang on my every word. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. She has me wrapped around her finger. She has me wrapped around her finger. She has me wrapped around her finger, I said. She has me wrapped around her finger for pronunciation. Notice wrapped the Ed is pronounced as a soft Now because I'm combining this with around, around and I can combine them together. Remember I said we commonly get rid of the So I can do that here as well, and then I to have someone wrapped around your finger. Or we commonly say little finger wrapped around There's no difference. So little is optional in this expression, over someone. This happens in situations where perhaps this Girl. And he's just infatuated with her. And because of that, she has complete control And no matter what she says, he just does So he does her laundry for her. He drives her to work every day. She has him wrapped around her little finger. I'll have you wrapped around my finger. No time, please. I've got Doctor Reed wrapped around my finger. Boy, Archie, Veronica's got you wrapped around Let's do this one more time. I'll say it three times. I can't get anything past you. I can't get anything past you. I can't get anything past you, I said I can't For pronunciation, notice we have get anything, So I can pronounce that as get anything, get And then I'll combine those two sounds together. I can't get anything has due now what does To get something past someone or you can also the same. It's just an option you can use past or by. This is when someone doesn't notice something But notice in my example I can't get anything I used it in the negative. Let's imagine an example. Let's say a customer is in a restaurant, and of French wine, but the restaurant tried to Now, because I can't get anything by you, they're important. So it means that you noticed that this isn't this isn't the wine I ordered. And then the waiter could say, I can't get guy. Can't get anything past you, can I? Never could get anything past you Can I? An amazing job improving your listening skills expressions to your speech. Now let's improve your pronunciation. Let's do an imitation exercise. I'm going to say each sentence again three out loud so you can imitate my pronunciation. Let's do that Now. Careful with the blender. It's a little finicky. Careful with the blender, it's a little finicky. Careful with the blender, it's a little finicky. She's a finicky eater. She's a finicky eater. She's a finicky eater. The audience was hanging on her every word. The audience was hanging on her every word. The audience was hanging on her every word. She has me wrapped around her finger. She has me wrapped around her finger. She has me wrapped around her finger. I can't get anything past you. I can't get anything past you. I can't get anything past you. You have learned so much. Let's do one more round of listening tests. Our chances are slim to none. Our chances are slim to none. Our chances are slim to none. So how'd you do? I said our chances are slim to none. First, let's talk about the pronunciation Notice that our our sounded like our our our We don't pronounce it our chances. We just do a very soft, unstressed R Our chances Notice that because chances ends on an S&amp;R, I can combine those together. Chances SAR. So it sounds like SAR, but I have to say those Chances are, Chances are. So when you hear it at a fast pace, you just on chances. And are. Our chances are slim to none to to notice Again, it's just a very soft, unstressed to What does this mean? First, let's talk about chances, one's chances. This is how possible something is. For example, the team has a great chance of So here, their chance of winning. It's how possible it is that the team will The team has a great so their chances of winning But in this example I said our chances are What does that mean, slim to none? This means very small or extremely unlikely. Our chances are slim to none. Now I didn't specify chances of what in the of getting a promotion this year are slim So this means it's very unlikely that you're There's a chance, yeah. Slim to none. Slim to none. Those are my chances. My chances of ever flying again are slim to Let's try another listening exercise. I'll say it three times. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. I said it was slim pickings at the career Notice how pickings sounded quite unstressed. Pickens Inns, so I dropped that ING. I dropped that G sound from the ING pickin Pickens. Native speakers often drop the G sound or Listen to this clip and notice how Joey from unstressed Pickens. It is Slim Pickens. You know it is slim. Pickens you. Know now, Let's talk about what this means. First of all, a career fair. Do you know what this is? This is an event where people looking for A career fair is very common for university Or high school graduates to go to to try to And I said it was Slim Pickens. So what does that mean to be slim pickings? This is when there are very few good options People at the career fair, but the employers jobs that were there weren't the best quality. So you could say it was Slim Pickens. We commonly use these two words Slim Pickens. If someone asks you how a search for something So maybe you're looking for a new house, a So someone could say, how's the job search And then you can reply back and simply say Slim Pickens. Slim Pickens. Out there, it is Slim. Pickens. Pickens are slim for an educated, independent Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. Stop hogging the iPad. Stop hogging the iPad. Stop hogging the iPad. How do you do with this one? I said stop hogging the iPad. Now here for hogging, notice we have ING. So I did pronounce it more like hogen hogen Hogging unstressed. Hogan, I tend to use both of them and don't I don't specifically choose before I'm about It's just whatever comes out and I will easily unstressed. Stop hogging, Stop hogging the iPad. Notice how it sounded more like a stressed it the When the noun that comes next starts iPad. I, of course a vowel. Native speakers don't always follow this rule. I don't always follow this rule. I would commonly say the iPad, the iPad, the So if you use one or the other, or if you just know that both are acceptable, and it's version, the with a vowel. Simply because it makes it easier to pronounce So here's an iPad. What does it mean to hog the iPad? The iPad? The iPad. What does that mean? When you hog something, it means you take So this is actually something I said to my I said stop hogging the iPad because we only like he was using it more than his fair share. So I said stop hogging the iPad because I And I said this more in a joking way. But let's say that you have a roommate. Or you could think about someone You live work colleague, and that person might use fair share. So maybe it takes your roommate a really long and you only have one bathroom. You might say my roommate always hogs the roommate uses more than her fair share of Notice in my original example? Stop hogging the iPad. Stop hogging. Our verb to hog is in the gerund form. That's because stop is a gerund verb, so you Stop hogging the iPad. That's why hog is in the gerund form with Stop hogging my best friend. Stop hogging the blank. Stop hogging the blanket. It's cold. How about we stop talking the magazine, huh? Let's try one more listening exercise. I'll say it three times. Don't be stingy with the cheese. Don't be stingy with the cheese. Don't be stingy with the cheese. Did you get this one? I said don't be stingy with the cheese. I think the pronunciation is clear, but do And remember I said that I said to my husband, Well actually this is something that he said He said don't be stingy with the cheese. So what does it mean to be stingy? This is when something is small in amount So I was putting cheese on something. I don't remember what I'll say pizza. I was putting cheese on our pizza and my husband I was using a small amount less than expected, a lot of cheese whereas I don't like a lot So in my opinion, I was not being stingy at We have another meaning for stingy. Which is very common when you describe someone money. So they have the money, they just don't want In that case, you would call someone stingy. For example, we had to take the bus because This means that my friend had the money to for her to take a taxi. But taking a taxi is more expensive than taking like spending money. So she took the bus so she could save her Although saving money and trying to save money use this adjective it's always in a negative, So we think that person should have been willing stingy. I'm going to say to you, don't be stingy with likes. Now in this case, it's the first example I be stingy with the cheese, he thought I wasn't So don't be stingy with your comments. If you're stingy with your comments and your You keep them to yourself. So it's another way of saying make sure you but I'm not stingy and that means that you Or you freely like my video. So don't be stingy. Put that in the comments. Don't be stingy. See. Don't be stingy. Please even stand. You would play money. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you You can practice all the pronunciation changes imitate my pronunciation so you sound more So I'm going to say each sentence three times, loud after each time. So let's do that now. Our chances are slim to none. Our chances are slim to none. Our chances are slim to none. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. It was Slim Pickens at the career fair. Stop hogging the iPad. Stop hugging the iPad. Stop hugging the iPad. Don't be stingy with the cheese. Don't be stingy with the cheese. Don't be stingy with the cheese. You did an amazing job. Think of how much you learned in this lesson. Now did you enjoy this lesson? Do you want me to make more lessons just like If you do, then put, let's go put, let's go You're ready to keep improving your English, get this free speaking guide where I share confidently. You can click here to download it or look And why don't? You keep improving your English with this Right now, I know you'll love it.