In the neighborhoods of New York, there are Each holds a memorial to firefighters who 343 members of the Fire Department of the greatest act of gallantry ever bestowed on This is their story. Joe Pfeifer: This plane raced past us along could read &quot;American&quot; on the fuselage. At 8:46 that morning, Battalion Chief Joe gas leak. Joe Pfeifer: I saw the plane aim and crash From that moment, the firefighters of the save 17,000 lives. Sal Cassano: They knew that they might not trapped. That's our job. Peter Hayden: There's no way we were gonna That wouldn't be the FDNY. Dan Nigro: Our aim was to get above that fire us. Melissa Doi: We're on the floor and we can't And it's very, very, very hot! Dan Nigro: And all the dispatcher could say So, we like to keep our promises. You know, we told them we're coming. We're coming. 60 Minutes remembers 9.11: The FDNY -- Responding 0912-60minutes-pelley-911-p1-791205-640x360.jpg Filmmakers Jules and Gideon Naudet were making Joe Pfeifer: We have a number of floors on It looked like the plane was aiming towards Dispatch: Engine 6 to Manhattan, K. Dispatch: Engine 6 Radio Transmission: The World Trade Center, Dispatch: Engine 1-0, World Trade Center 10-60. Send every available ambulance, everything Dispatch launched an armada. Dispatch: Engine 2-1-1, Ladder 11, Engine 121 engines, 62 ladder companies, 100 ambulances, Dispatch: Attention 68 Engine, 35 Engine, At FDNY headquarters, in Brooklyn, 54-year-old to his car. He was the boss, leading the second-largest Dan Nigro was his number two. Dan Nigro: So we went downstairs quickly, Bridge, where we could see the damage, see That's when I said to Pete-- &quot;Pete, this'll And, you know, that was before I knew the Radio Transmission from Pete Ganci: Car 3 Pete Ganci's voice was recorded en route. Radio Transmission from Pete Ganci: Transmit area chief, uh, chief, somewhere on West Street, A &quot;box&quot; is a location. &quot;K&quot; signals the end of a message -- a throwback day, was punctuating the greatest crisis in Peter Hayden: Right away I got a deep sense this day. Division One Commander Peter Hayden met Battalion tower. Peter Hayden: Well, I knew that we weren't So, the order of the day was to search and And then we were gonna back away. The fire was 93 floors above. Elevators were out, so firefighters climbed more. Peter Hayden: And I thought we would have And everybody that was above the impact of dead already or going to die. There were a lot of people jumping out already. 1,355 people were trapped above the fire. The Boeing 767 had severed all three stairwells--leaving Radio Transmission: ...Jumpers, K! Jumpers! Radio Transmission: Alright Division 1 be from the World Trade Center. Joe Pfeifer: We heard a loud thud. And I knew that was somebody that either fell The first firefighter killed was hit by a Joe Pfeifer: It was happening so rapidly that post And I said, &quot;The firefighters are coming. If you can, hold on.&quot; Sal Cassano: It's something that's gonna haunt Tour commander Sal Cassano had arrived precisely Sal Cassano: Just as I got outta my car, I And I can tell you exactly what time it was. It was 9:03, because that was the plane that Radio Transmission: You have a second plane center! Major fire! Radio Transmission: Mayday! Mayday! Engine, ah, another plane hit the second tower, The second 767 exploded into floors 77 through Now, 2,000 people were trapped a quarter-mile Cassano ran into the department chaplain, Sal Cassano: And I just told him, &quot;Father You're gonna need a lot more chaplains here.&quot; Peter Hayden: You know, the more and more their assignments with no question, pretty Scott Pelley: But it's also hard to give them Peter Hayden: It was, it was, but I could I could see the look in their eyes. I remember seeing firefighters hugging each And heading up. Scott Pelley: How many firefighters did you Joe Pfeifer: Nobody refused to go in. Joe Pfeifer: I could remember one lieutenant a word. And we stood there wondering if we were both And that lieutenant was my brother Kevin. And then I told him what I told many of the I said, &quot;Go up to the 70th floor.&quot; Seventy, they hoped, could be a staging area In less than half an hour the FDNY had rescue and the nearly sold-out 800-room hotel between Sal Cassano: From the time the first plane collapsed was 102 minutes. The things that were going through Pete's Sal Cassano was with Chief of Department Pete the towers. Scott Pelley: Was Ganci the kind of boss that or because you desperately did not want to Sal Cassano: You did it because you loved Ganci joined the FDNY in 1968. Scott Pelley: What kind of man was Peter Ganci? Dan Nigro: Pete, I guess people would say Had a chest full of medals. And he was just a down-to-earth, honest, hard-working You know he was a paratrooper in the Army, in the FDNY. Quite a story. A story of courage over his 33-year career. Scott Pelley: He won the department's medal Crawling into a burning apartment on his hands going to die, and dragging that child out Sal Cassano: That's the kind of person Pete He would put people before himself without He put his firefighters before himself three Ganci, the chief of the department, responded in a burning store. He went in wearing shorts and boat shoes. He once said his 11,000 firefighters were On that day in Queens, he lost three. On 9/11, the man responsible for firefighter by the passing minutes. Al Turi: ...Let it burn up. We ain't putting this out. He asked Pete Hayden if he had considered on the burning floors. Peter Hayden: I said yes but, we needed to There were hundreds upon hundreds of people Scott Pelley: How much time did you think Peter Hayden: I thought we had a couple of The chiefs knew, no steel high rise in history Dan Nigro: None of us expected the building We expected the fire to keep burning, and But if we could just get one route above in folks down, at least. Scott Pelley: You just needed a little more Dan Nigro: We just needed time. No one would do more with time than Orio Palmer. That's him on the right with the mustache. He's receiving orders to go to the South Tower calling 911. 911 operator: How many people where you're Melissa Doi: There's like five people here 911 operator: All up on the 83rd floor? Melissa Doi: 83rd floor. 32-year-old Melissa Doi was saying the Hail The once aspiring ballerina was a manager floors in the South Tower. Melissa Doi: Are they going to be able to 911 operator: Of course ma'am we're coming Melissa Doi: Well, there's no one here yet We're on the floor and we can't breathe. And it's very, very, very hot. The operator was right, someone was rising Orio Palmer ran marathons as a hobby. Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: Battalion &quot;Battalion 7&quot; is Chief Palmer. &quot;Ladder 1-5&quot; is a team of firefighters, a Radio Transmission from Joe Leavey: What do Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: I'm still No smoke or fire problems, the walls are breached, This is ladder 15's lieutenant, Joe Leavey. Radio Transmission from Joe Leavey: Alright, Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: I found Palmer found Fire Marshal Ron Bucca on the Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: Battalion Radio Transmission from Joe Leavey: 1-5. Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: I'm going to knock down two fires, we have a house line knock it down, K. Palmer had discovered the only intact stairway Unlike the North Tower, the second plane had Radio Transmission from Joe Leavey: We're I'll be right to you. If Palmer could clear this stairwell, 619 He was five floors below Melissa Doi and rising. Melissa Doi: I'm going to die, aren't I? 911 operator: No, no, no, no, no, no ... Melissa Doi: I'm gonna die. 911 operator: Ma'am, ma'am, ma'am say your We're not gonna... Melissa Doi: I'm gonna die. 911 operator: We're gonna think positive because Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: We have Radio Transmission from Ladder 15: Alright Melissa Doi: I'm going to die. 911 operator: Stay calm. Stay calm. Stay calm. Stay calm. Melissa Doi: Please God. 911 operator: You're doing a good job, ma'am. You're doing a good job ... Melissa Doi: It's so hot. I'm burning up... An hour had passed since the attack on the World Trade Center began. In the South Tower, Battalion 7 Chief Orio as it would go. Then, he led the men of Ladder 15 on a climb Palmer was trying to clear a path to 619 people Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: Battalion This is Palmer's radio transmission from the He's calling the firefighters of Ladder 15 few floors below. Radio Transmission from Orio Palmer: We've We should be able to knock it down with two Radio, radio that. 78th floor. Numerous 10-45 code 1's. 10-45 code 1's were fatalities, more than Palmer pressed toward 79, climbing at about As he rose, Melissa Doi, speaking to 911 from Melissa Doi: Wait, wait, we hear voices. Hello! Help! 911 operator: Hello ma'am? Melissa Doi: Help! Oh my God! 911 operator: Are they coming through to you Melissa Doi: Find out if there is anyone here 911 operator: Ma'am, don't worry, you stay Melissa Doi: Can you find out if there is we heard somebody! We don't know what she heard. But hearing no answer to her shout, Melissa Melissa Doi: Can you, can you... stay on the 911 operator: Yes, ma'am... Melissa Doi: I feel like I'm dying. Joe Pfeifer: Orio Palmer knew how dangerous And he didn't stop. Ladder 15 knew how dangerous it was. But we never thought that an entire high-rise There was no history of it anywhere in the But this day, history was changing because foam insulating the structural steel. The burning floors were sagging, slowly pulling EMS Division Chief John Peruggia was in the received a warning from an official he believes John Peruggia: He said, &quot;The buildings are You can see slight lean. They're in danger of collapse.&quot; So I grabbed one of my staff guys, EMT Rich And I said, &quot;Rich go to Pete Ganci, don't the buildings are in danger of collapse.&quot; In a four-second video, at the far left of He's delivering the warning to Pete Ganci. Zarrillo hardly got the words out when Ganci's Tower above him. Sal Cassano: Loud noise, had no idea what All we saw was this plume of dust and smoke In the moment before, Melissa Doi had given and the message that her daughter loved her. Then, there was silence. 911 operator: Oh my God. Melissa, please. You're gonna be alright. You're gonna be fine. You're gonna talk to your mother yourself. But you gotta think positive. You gotta stay calm. Ok? You're gonna talk to your mother yourself, Melissa? Scott Pelley: Palmer's last radio transmission nothing after that. That's when the tower collapses. He must have known that with every step he Sal Cassano: Didn't deter him one bit. The only thing that was in his mind was, &quot;Let Let me get as many people out as I can as Joe Pfeiffer, next door in the North Tower, Joe Pfeifer: And then the lobby goes pitch And in the darkness, I wondered if I was dead And I got on my radio. And I said, &quot;Command to all units in Tower Joe Pfeifer: Evacuate the building. Peter Hayden: Joe Pfeifer was giving the order And one of the firefighters were calling my Joe Pfeifer: I felt somebody at my feet. And I saw this was our fire department chaplain, I removed his white collar. I checked for his pulse and breathing. And he had none. And I knew he was gone. Peter Hayden: Several of us picked him up The EMTs that had taken him, actually took to St. Peter Claver which is a Catholic church And they laid him on the altar, and they called get him. Radio Transmission: Tower Two has had a major collapse! Radio Transmission: Have them mobilize the We need the Army in Manhattan. John Sudnik: There was a rush of dust with that I've never experienced before. Ganci's streetside command post had been set was needed. Captain John Sudnik, Ganci and the chiefs John Sudnik: I just remember the dust that Like it was, like, it felt like you were swallowing Sal Cassano: Pitch black, pitch black. But we heard voices, &quot;Are you okay, are you And then that's when we made our way back Sal Cassano: And then, when we got up to where rescue mode. Pete Ganci heard, on the radio, the cries Sal Cassano: And I remember him giving orders. &quot;I need truck companies. I need rescue company. Tell 'em to come with me.&quot; As he had before, Ganci went into the debris In the still standing North Tower, many firefighters still carrying the wounded and disabled. Ganci sent Sal Cassano to set up a new command Twenty-eight minutes later, Cassano was on Sal Cassano: And then I look up and all I Tower imploding. Radio Transmission: The other tower has just Major collapse! Major collapse! Regina Wilson: I, in my mind, had to be resolved Regina Wilson was on the street below the She was with Engine 219, in her second year Regina Wilson: And I prayed, and then I just And then, if he couldn't, I knew that I would Inside the collapsing North Tower, the men Jeff Coniglio: And it started out slow, boom... Then it got quicker, where pretty soon it bam, bam, bam, coming down. Jeff Coniglio and Jamie Efthimiades were on floors above them. Jamie Efthimiades: It took ten seconds for I saw-- I was in the background of a funeral: sitting in the front. And as I'm watching this, I'm like, &quot;All right, I'm just waiting for something to tap my shoulder be it, we'll be gone,&quot; you know? &quot;We're not gonna suffer.&quot; James McGlynn and Bob Bacon were in the same Bob Bacon: You know, the wind actually came You know, blew me into the air and the landing me, and I kinda bounced, you know, back and James McGlynn: I think I said a couple of here.&quot; Their fragment of an intact stairwell lay 91 crushed FDNY vehicles, and quiet like the Peter Hayden: Every once in a while, you'd trying to contact somebody. Dispatch: Alright, Manhattan announcing, any the World Trade Center, K. Silence spoke of unimaginable loss. Dispatch: Any division chief or any staff Centers? K. Joe Pfeifer: That day, 23 battalion chiefs Only four of us survived. Joe Pfeifer thought of the lieutenant of Engine the North Tower. Joe Pfeifer: I got on my radio, and I said, And I repeated it several times. And I didn't get an answer. Kevin Pfeifer was gone and so was the crew firehouse. Regina Wilson: We found the truck. We didn't find the members. Scott Pelley: What happened to them? Regina Wilson: They all died. Among them was John Chipura, her mentor and Regina Wilson was assigned to the doomed Ladder John Chipura asked to switch jobs, which put Regina Wilson: I try to honor him by talking And that's how it is in the African American When you speak the name of an ancestor or live. And so, every time I say John's name, he lives. And that gives me comfort. Jeff Coniglio: It was very hot. Jamie Efthimiades: Oh, yeah. The men of Engine 39 were trapped in the wreckage They could hear, only a few feet away, Battalion for help. Jeff Coniglio: We couldn't get to him and Jamie Efthimiades: Yeah he was coming in and Scott Pelley: Did you hear his radio transmissions? Jeff Coniglio: The last thing that he said that-- Jamie Efthimiades: &quot;Tell my wife and children Jeff Coniglio: Yeah, that they were the most-- thing in the world to me.&quot; Those words were among Richard Prunty's last. The men of Engine 39 were rescued, but 343 In a tradition where the job is handed down Peter Hayden: Guys I had worked with both you know, &quot;Have you seen my son?&quot; And-- you know, firefighter-- young firefighter my father?&quot; Who I knew and-- I-- I just said, &quot;No.&quot; I didn't have the courage to tell him what Among the fallen were Peter Ganci and 71-year-old had gone with Ganci to rescue the trapped. Pete Hayden climbed atop an engine to address Peter Hayden: I yelled out, you know, &quot;We Let's have a moment of silence.&quot; And well-- I took my helmet off. And we held it. I held it. And after a while, I put my helmet back on. They put their helmets back on. I said, &quot;Okay, we have a job to do. (CLAP) Let's do it.&quot; Scott Pelley: Do you look back and wonder, Sal Cassano: Yeah. I didn't think about it as much. We were crazy busy. I was working 18 hours a day, and then it I says, &quot;I'm here.&quot; You know, I mean, I get home and I'm tired, for me when I came home, no matter what time And... I'm lying in bed. And I ask my wife, &quot;Why me?&quot; And she said, &quot;Did you ever think there was There was a job for Cassano and others, to 60 Minutes remembers 9.11: The FDNY - Children 0912-60minutes-pelley-911-p3-791221-640x360.jpg in 1648. Nearly 200 years later, during the Civil War, firefighters. Their commander is quoted, &quot;I want New York in the country...&quot; As those veterans returned home in 1865, the The department's traditions are handed down And so, it remains, especially for the children The three children. His daughter married a firefighter. His son Captain Peter Ganci III was 27 on His other son, Battalion Chief Chris Ganci, Scott Pelley: How did you learn your father Chris Ganci: I ran home, and I got in the dad's driver, Al Turi, who was the Chief of I just remember them telling my mom that he's And she said, &quot;Gone where?&quot; Like that. Like, innocently. And they're like, &quot;He's dead.&quot; And I remember the scream that she-- that I can still hear it-- my ears and it pains The pain of the realization that he's never Scott Pelley: Pete, what kind of man was he? Peter Ganci III: He loved being around family. But his family was also the fire department. We knew it. My mom knew it. Sometimes to his dismay. But we understood the type of person that Scott Pelley: Chris, you were in business Did 9/11 make you a fireman? Chris Ganci: Absolutely. Had 9/11 not happened, I would not have been Scott Pelley: You've quoted your dad as telling will never, ever be rich. But you will always be happy.&quot; Chris Ganci: &quot;You'll always be happy.&quot; It's hard to explain to people, how, like, but yet, somehow, you come home with a smile Like, I enjoy being part of the organization, I never felt anywhere else. And maybe that's what had driven my father John Palombo: I'm John Palombo. I work in 92 Engine in South Bronx. Tommy Palombo: I'm Tommy Palombo. I work in 69 Engine in Harlem. Scott Pelley: John, how old were you on 9/11? John Palombo: I was a week away from being Tommy Palombo: And I was 9. Scott Pelley: How many kids in the Palombo John Palombo: There's ten of us. Eight boys and two girls. The Palombo brothers' dad, Frank Palombo, In a sense, it wasn't 9/11 that made the Palombo --and all the days that followed. John Palombo: My dad's brothers and sisters They drove us places. They took us to Six Flags. I remember going on their shoulders and, you us in circles. The firehouse turned out for birthdays and Tommy Palombo: The stands were filled at the It wasn't the same because you are missing do everything they can to fill it. They never will, but they did everything they taking time away from their own families. The firehouse cooked dinner for the 10 Palombos until the family moved away. More than 60 children of 9/11's fallen have Island in the East River, and are now 'on To join, they took a written exam that's given About 60,000 applicants take it. And only those in the top 10% earn a place Dan Nigro: I'm very proud of them. I feel that their-- their fathers would have Dan Nigro, Chief Ganci's number two on 9/11, the city fire commissioner. Among the others in our story, John Sudnik, and so did Peter Hayden. Sal Cassano became fire commissioner. Battalion Chief Joe Pfeifer became chief of Regina Wilson was studying for the lieutenant's And Orio Palmer's name lives on the FDNY's Dan Nigro: A lot of bravery. A lot of bravery was displayed that day. And-- followed by a lot of sadness. Scott Pelley: Commissioner, it seems to be Dan Nigro: I think for everyone that was there We have plenty of good days, plenty to be it's a day that'll never leave, never leave Scott Pelley: Sadness becomes part of your Dan Nigro: Absolutely. Scott Pelley: Your father survived the collapse And instead of moving to safety, he went to Radio Transmission: Receiving reports of firefighters Scott Pelley: He knew that the other building He had decided in that moment that he was Chris Ganci: Yeah, I mean, He chose his guys. And, you know, we can get angry about it. And I know my sister and my mother, we sometimes-- But when the smoke clears and you think about I knew the way he felt about his men and his and see the job through. And... Peter Ganci III: He wouldn't have been able one more guy was killed. It's just the way he was. It was, I have to be there until the last Today's recruits were children then. And so, they muster. Before memories--three columns of the World here, indelible in time. Regina Wilson: So many of us sacrificed so Because the world is changing fast. And I don't want this to be something that's we're forgotten. We cannot do justice, in this hour, or any the New York City Police Department, the Port to save lives at the Pentagon, and on Flight At the Trade Center, 2,753 people perished. But there were more than 17,000 in the towers That morning, a witness watched firefighters found the courage. After 21 years of reflection, it's clear. They climbed to rise. To rise to the cries 1000 feet above them. To rise to the defense of the firefighter To rise beyond duty to a place of selfless