KC is a 79 year old man, presenting to the his left jaw. His wife Jane, tells the admitting nurse that of breath. He felt nauseous, and light headed, before You see, KC was observing a yearly time change everyone in the country would set their clock March. Officially, the reason to do this is to save the number of daylight hours during spring of a building body of evidence: this time Immediately after setting his clock an hour He had done this before for the last 45 years on this Sunday in March. He did have trouble sleeping that weekend think too much of it. But the next day on Monday morning, just before stiff. His chest instantly tightened up. He gripped the armrests of his chair, because He didn't want to tell his son downstairs, He didn't want to tell his wife, because He didn't think this was a big deal. At lunchtime, KC tried to lay down because But 20 minutes later, he vomited 3 times with KC couldn't take it anymore. He could barely breathe anymore. His wife found him collapsed on the floor to the emergency room where we are now. Given this history of present illness, there's Chest pain with shortness of breath could But it could also be a problem of the heart. KC had a prior history of diabetes and asthma, there's more going on. The medical team immediately draws some of Proteins and enzymes from his heart muscle the ECG confirmed the medical team's suspicions: Myo meaning muscle. Cardia from Ancient Greek referring to the Infarction from Latin farcire meaning to stuff of blood flow, causing cell death. Death of heart muscle, due to a blockage of And ST-elevation referring to the ECG reading of his heart, meaning he is having a heart KC told the medical team that he was a type This means that his body's cells are resistant This is a hormone your body releases after Insulin enables the shift of those nutrients When the body doesn't respond to insulin not going in to the cells, but also, the body thinks that insulin isn't being released, The body, thinks it's starving and starts As these fats float around, some of them, All of this causing hyperlipidemia. Hyper meaning high. Lipid referring to fats, And emia meaning High fat presence in blood. This means these blood fats will start pooling called the coronary arteries. The heart is a large muscle. Big muscles are very oxygen hungry, so they Blocking the coronary arteries will starve to die. And in KC, parts of his heart, were starting Myocardial Infarction. KC was at increased risk of heart attack to At 79 years old, his heart has degraded over No one at 80, has the same heart as they did But KC's heart also degraded more because can't get his blood sugars right. His body can't get his blood fats right. And his body can't signal right with the Fats start to pool in his coronary arteries. This causes the smooth muscle lining inside But it's not done h ere. White blood cells rush in to the site because They start to engulf the dead cells of the And as more fats keep accumulating, these core]. Smooth muscle cells start to make collagen core. This fibrous cap seals the area, and the plaque But while this plaque can cause a heart attack ,it isn't always an ST-elevation ST-elevation means full blockage, meaning else too. But what could it be? Well, it would have to be something that's It could be more fat, but probably not likely It's not sugar because that's probably But speaking of clumping up, how about a blood This additional blockage can happen suddenly. It can block the whole thing. It can cause immediate changes in an ECG reading, keeps dying from the lack of oxygen. Without fresh blood flowing in, waste products The heart tries to compensate, but as each dying. But why would this blood clot form? Clots usually form when you get a cut, like coronary artery? How would that even happen? Well, the plaque is made of cholesterols, engulfed too much fat. The plaque is inflamed. Inflammation is what happens like when you Diabetes put someone in a pro-inflammatory The immune system expands the blood vessels cells can enter the area. The thing is, the chemicals released by the the plaque, breakdown the fibrous cap. The plaque ruptures. Other blood cells think the vessel wall is This completely blocks artery very quickly, So that's the how of KC's heart attack. But why did it happen? And what does it have to do with Daylight Well, it might have a lot to do with it. This brings us to a concept called the circadian This refers to our body's natural clock. Science suggests that human circadian rhythms So this directly ties our internal clocks This is why it's harder to take a nap in the past few nights. It's why many people feel gross pulling it's dark outside. And the sunlight hypothesis is why we think us up at night and disrupts sleep. There are differences between people in terms Some are early morning people. Some are night owls, but the overwhelming activity in their bodies at different times In human experiments, we've found that sleep The average sleep duration in Western societies 100 years, and it looks like it's decreasing In that same experiment, scientists found insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. More evidence from decades worth of studies who work overnights, do have a higher chance disease over years if they keep working those decreased insulin sensitivity and impaired All three of these, were already a problem more. Daylight saving time has been shown to disrupt On the second Sunday in March, most of the hour. This date, sits about a week and a half from Right around this time, sunrise and sunset are already adapting to seasonal change. But when an arbitrary one hour shift happens, This extra disruption in circadian rhythm in the bodies. It inflicts signal changes disrupting sleep, sensitivity, causing a cascade of metabolic Some of the data shows that there is an increased the 1 hour forward adjustment, in line with Young people can tolerate these changes, but cannot handle this, which brings us back to As each minute passes, his chances of dying He's immediately sent in to the hospital's This is a place where doctors can use imaging of his heart. They send a small wire through a blood vessel They find the blood vessel that's completely A balloon is placed on the wire and through the blood vessel open. A mesh called a stent is placed to help keep The stent also releases medicine that helps This process is called percutaneous coronary called reperfusion therapy, meaning it helps So, cases like KC's bring up a lot of issues. Data does show an increase in heart attacks A Letter to the Editor in the New England Sweden, from 1987 to 2006, the incidence of Saving Time, mainly in the first 3 days after Interestingly enough, during the Autumn Time of heart attack decreased in the days afterwards. OK, that's Sweden. Their Daylight Saving time is later in March They're in a different part of the world, How about data in America? Well, the published data is more limited. It's mostly focused on Michigan, they do show that there is an increase in DST. So the evidence that it happens, is there. The scientific rationale that it happens, Going an hour forward just before the spring in humans. Altering this circadian rhythm, leads to increased which directly affects the heart. Metabolic derangements that mimic type 2 diabetes inflammation. For people at risk of developing heart attacks can be that straw that breaks the camel's artery, causing a heart attack. KC was allowed to rest after his PCI. Days later, he was discharged. Having an ST elevation Myocardial infarction His chances of presenting to the emergency But not missing his doses of his medicine, him be in that 97% that don't die after And it helped him be in that 75% of patients So the point of this video is to tell you If you're young, and healthy, you probably It's not just getting enough sleep, it's Slow wave sleep happens hours after sunset, You might miss out on this part if you sleep usually released during this time, as dictated Over years, if you don't sleep well, and you smoke, these will add up. Human hearts deteriorate over time no matter quick that decline happens, based on your But no matter what, that one hour forward with what looks like minimal benefit, with Every year there's a lot more entering that boom generation. Those are the ones who are gonna get hit the I would prefer we stay on standard time all With care from the medical team, diligence on top of his diabetes control, KC was able And thanks to my good friend, Cardiologist and YouTuber, Dr. Rohin Francis for reviewing this video. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And Be Well.