(energetic music) - Okay, greetings. Happy Thursday. This is my first day of teaching, so I'm like slowly making the transition from, you know, summer to fall and public stuff to teaching stuff. I'm very glad that I can I'm very glad that you all are here to at least try out this class on Ukraine. Let me just say a word about the way the class is going to work and see if you have any and then I will jump into, you didn't always have a beard. I'm going to jump into a about what some of the major So this is a straightforward We're going to cover a lot of, we're gonna cover a lot of time. We're gonna be focused on Ukraine, but not in the sense that that Ukraine as it but rather we'll be which made it possible, and which were important on the And more abstractly, we'll be why this nation, why nations in general, how do you get from something, how do you get from nothing to something? Why are there nations in general? Or if there have to be nations, why the ones that we have to have? Which is the ultimate thing, like if you're produced in then the existence of and the state that created but it's not really. Like that's the existence of or Russia or any country and frankly, pretty darn unlikely. And so, the burden of proof to show how these things are possible, as opposed to taking them for granted. So, as I say, this is a You're expected to come to lecture. In week three, we'll have section. You're expected to come to section. You're not expected to bribe your TFs, but you are expected, oh, look at all those I was like, there are like, yeah, there are geographical lines where, you know, there are places but I'm happy to announce is not one of those places. I'm noting like (class laughing) - I'm noting like undergraduate wisdom, which I'm ignoring. There are things that So where was I? So lecture class. Two exams. Map quiz next week. Map quiz, take that very generally. I might ask you questions on the map quiz, very simple questions which assigned up to that point. If you do the reading it's gonna be very straightforward. If you don't do the reading you're gonna be baffled. You're not going to be able to fake it. It's gonna be a terrible experience and you'll go home crying. Okay. So it's meant to be easy, and the reason why I do a map quiz is because geography is kind of one of the great missing things from along with military history, which is a bit awkward right now that nobody does military history anymore. No, I mean, it's a serious problem, actually that we have a lot of history of like the discourse of which is interesting and important, but we have relatively little straightforward battlefield history, which means that the journalists tend to move very quickly into, &quot;Oh, what's Putin thinking?&quot; Or you know, like all the like the psychology of We move very quickly into those things as opposed to how do logistics if it's a steppe rather than hills, and what is partisan warfare like, and these things that used to be known, but which we've kind of Okay. That was my big I'll go back to being myself now, but it is actually very, very important. So what we're gonna be doing starting the next lecture. Well, next lecture, this is just, I'm gonna be giving a very Next lecture, we're about the origins of nations. Try to open up that question, go through some of the thinking about where nations come from. Our guiding thinker on this is gonna be a fellow who is a very important Ukrainian thinker and kind of uniquely situated for reasons which are going I hope, over time. And then beginning, then and then beginning September 13th, we are going to start moving through time, beginning with the ancient world, into the middle ages, into So it's all pretty straightforward. I don't wanna spend too but if you have a question please go ahead and ask. Yeah? It's all clear? Okay. All right. So what I'm gonna do now is some of the big questions that are raised by the moment that we are in now. So history is not about the way that it is now. Nevertheless, it would that the way that we start has to do with the that are raised by the present moment. You can't get away from As you might have noticed, it's very hard to get away but what you can do is you to reflect, right, to reflect, and then when you've reflected, might make the present So I'm not gonna say that is to make the Russian war What I am going to say perhaps is an occasion for us to go back and understand this history. Some of the things which like how is a war like this possible might seem less mysterious. Some of the claims that might seem easier to dismiss once we have the history under our belts. So let me start with where we are. Where we are right now, it is what, the 31st of Where we are right now is that are undertaking a limited offensive in the the Kherson oblast of Ukraine, which is right in the Kherson, it's an interesting name, if you think about it, it if you know anything it doesn't sound particularly Slavic, and that's because it's not. Kherson was named after an on the Crimean peninsula. It was named by Katherine the Great when she founded the city. By the way that ancient Greek city. which was also called Kherson, is now, the ruins of it are now which is another city name Things are exploding there at the moment. Sevastopol is part of the of Ukraine and Crimea, which So these place names which point us back to a history which is actually durable So the Greeks are the oldest documented inhabitants of Ukraine. I'm not gonna say the oldest inhabitants, because there are the Scythians and there are are all kinds of other people who left other kinds of traces, but in terms of continuous the Greeks have been along with the Jews. So the Jews and the Greeks inhabitants of Ukraine, which suggests that familiar whether coming from a a Jewish side are going in application to Ukraine. The history of Ukraine is about an axis of south to north. Okay, I realize I'm now and heads are spinning already. North is like, when it's the up one. (students and professor chuckling) - I'm sorry. (students and professor chuckling) - And south is the other way. So when we think of it, people talk about Ukraine and that, I just wanna say, The axis on which early Ukrainian history is going to emerge, or the which is the first big is a north, it's a North-South axis. It has to do with Vikings, which is a major theme in The Viking age, which begins It has to do with the and the continuation of the Roman empire, which is known as Byzantium, which is capital in Constantinople, It Kyivan Rus', our history, of this major Northern development and this major Southern development, which meet in Kyiv and sets something off, which is in some way continuing. This something that is set off, we're gonna be following The state, which is founded, as I've said, is called Rus' or Kyivan Rus', I will describe, I'll talk about why it's It's very interesting, but the territories in governed by other entities like the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, the biggest state in Europe Poland major, the major for quite a long time, the Ottoman empire, and if I get through and I haven't talked I want you guys to call there's this whole thing about Kyivan Rus' and like Putin talks about it, then Zelensky talks about it, and both Putin and Zelensky who was baptized, maybe, in who's is called Valdemar, because of course he was a Viking and not a Russian or Ukrainian, cause Russia and Ukraine But the Viking who got baptized, who was called Valdemar in 988, that name then becomes and Vladimir in Russian. Right, so that contemporary heads of state of these two countries are who a thousand years ago maybe So there's this Kyivan Rus' business, and we're gonna follow Kyivan but we have to remember territory that we're talking of Kyivan Rus' right? So Putin is now making and part of his logic, as I'm gonna talk about have always been one maybe got baptized a thousand years ago, which I want you guys to historical argument, okay? If we get one thing out of this class, it's gonna be that if a dictator tells you a thousand years ago, that doesn't mean your nation If we can get through that, So at least for the first But my point is that we cannot territories were not part where the fighting is it was part of the ancient Greek world. It was part of the Ottoman but it was not actually Southern Ukraine has a brought into this larger So let's. I'm just saying that Ottoman empire and we have to mark Islam, and in general, by the way, as a major center, not because when you focus on Kyiv and the conversion to Christianity, then you're in this kind of Somebody, maybe or maybe and therefore it's Christian forever, but Ukraine is actually a center of Muslim and Jewish and and this is one of the things and of note and in the ancient period, it was a center of what you between those three to convert the pagans who lived there, which we'll get to in a later lecture. For now though, what I wanna is this issue of how you get to be a nation. Okay, so that's gonna be and I don't mean it I don't mean why Ukraine had to be, because that's a terrible question. As soon as you're in the world of why a nation had to be, you've obliviated, you've all human agency in If I'm able to say right Ukraine had to exist, then which makes history interesting, right, the human choices along the way. The way people saw the what people thought was possible, what they thought they were doing, and what they sometimes even did. All that goes away. If I can say, &quot;Oh, there had to be America or there had to be China.&quot; There didn't have to We can explain how they came into being, but what we can't say, and we can't say that it's predetermined. As soon as we say it's predetermined, this is no longer a history class, it's in some kind of, we're in some kind of applied physics or something. Okay, but the bad, so there's a bad answer to why, you know, to which is that things had and that bad answer is because Putin gave that when he wrote an incredibly not long for you guys, an incredibly long essay which he called &quot;On the historical unity and his bad answer is that because they had to be Russia and Ukraine have and if they're not together, non-historical forces. This is really important, by the way, because when a tyrant makes an argument about how history has to be, then some of the forces that are actually resident in history, then get classified as being or exotic or alien, right? So in Putin's telling you the story, all the Lithuanian stuff and all of the Jewish all the things which aren't are now suddenly exotic, alien, foreign. They're not really history. They're the things that have to be removed so that history can go the and that is precisely a rationale for war. In fact, it is the rationale for this war, because the argument for this war is that Ukrainians don't know who they really are because they've been polluted or Lithuanian stuff or Habsburg stuff, or maybe latterly European So you have to peel away to get down to who they really are, and they may not know who they and we have to apply enough violence so that they can understand And once you're in that then of course the war makes And so the way that history is presented has an integral connection with and also for the way that while it's going on, right, while it's going on to people So the point is though that start with this bad history because it's the right kind of history, the point is that the bad to call the myth or the political memory gives us an occasion to see how history might actually have been. It's a kind of, the bad invitation to what might Okay. So what's wrong with the idea, let me just open this up What's wrong with, this is I'm sorry. What's wrong with &quot;On the historical unity Go for it. - [Student] There is no - Okay. That's alright. But I'm looking for yes. Okay. Why not? I mean, why not? Because you don't think so? - [Student] No, I think it's been forced, but the unity has been forced. - Okay. - [Student] Doesn't - Okay. All right. I'm going for something - [Student] Russia and in the way we talked about them. - Good. Okay. That's good. That's good. Russia and Ukraine as nations in the year 988, right? The nation is a modern historical the notion that you feel a you don't know. That's Benedict Anderson It's a good argument that you, somebody else is American and you think you have even though you don't that's the nation. The nation also involves a certain, at least a certain notion of equality. We may not be equal in every ways, but I'm not more American if you're American We're, at least in the, we're equal as members of a nation, right? That does not exist in the ancient world, or it doesn't exist in the medieval world. So that's a good one. Now, can we go even deeper than that? All right, I'm gonna have to Yeah, go for it. - [Student] This might be a long shot, but this statement itself Can you say the unity, but he's also recognizing by saying that Russia and - That's kind of where, I mean, I'm gonna give you like because I think you're right. And I think what I'm aiming of the statement. The way that &quot;On the historical plays a certain trick. The trick is that if I the thing that's there is So if the title is &quot;On of Russia and Ukraine&quot; the trick is that, well, that thing must exist, right? If I write a book which says &quot;On quick chess strategies then it's like, that even though it doesn't exist, right? But if I say on this thing, then it exists and so that kind of language, the kind of implicit is non-historical language. It's the language of legend, It's tricky language in terms of categories of eternity, categories of durability, what things which don't change, which leads you to where Putin is, which his idea that some predetermined, right, which His idea is that because there the rest of it is predetermined and anything which doesn't go is somehow exotic or foreign and then historical unity, I mean, I'm gonna make your point It's not just that Russia and Ukraine, there's no such thing as History is not about unity. History is about, okay, I'm What's history about in two words? You can have two, you have War and peace. I guess that's what I deserve comment earlier on. (students laughing) - I mean, it's not bad. It's It's a pretty good answer. Anything. Anyone else wanna go for it? Yeah. - [Student] People. - Did it in one word. That's good. It's people actually, that's where history stops is the line between history History is all about written records. So we're gonna do a lot of warmup before we get to written records, but one of the reasons in the history of Eastern is that with baptism and and with written language to make different kinds of interpretations where historians are comfortable. All right, I'm gonna What's history about? Don't you guys dream of, you're gonna come to Yale and what history's all about and and say something brilliant? (class laughing) - Like isn't that what This is your moment. Yeah, Jack. - [Jack] States in society. - State in society. That's good. That's good. That's pretty good. Okay. So what I'm thinking about and dumb, which is change in continuity. Okay, so you don't have It's a very fundamental thing that sometimes things change and history is aware and you're in, history is aware, so the historical unity is because what it does is that it's a trick because historical it means unchanging, right? Historical unity in that It means eternal, right It doesn't actually mean historical, cause historical would mean it changes. Maybe there was some unity at some point, but if it's historical, then it would change because History is change as well as continuity. So history is about change in continuity, which means it's about and it's also about unpredictability. Okay, so as you might have gathered, this lecture is also because we're handling this big subject of war, and we're trying to do this big question of where nations come from I'm trying to do just a little bit about what history actually So one of the things which, since history is about it's also unpredictable, right? It's about things that and that may seem counterintuitive, because you probably think, well, okay you probably don't, cause I know you're but someone in some other history is about old dusty books and we know what's gonna But here's the thing, even if you read all the old about the year 1439 and you became the world's leading expert on 1439, you still would not know That's the level you wouldn't have, and that's the level of and it comes up to the present. You can read all, I mean you could possibly but you wouldn't know You just wouldn't. It's only afterwards it had to happen, right? &quot;Of course Russia's not After February 24th. &quot;Oh, of course Russia was That's how our minds work and that actually we're wrong that things are not That what people expect to happen is generally what doesn't happen, and that novelty is an authentic thing, that there are new things In our case, the new thing the most is nature. I Now one of the things which gets elided, and I've already mentioned in the notion that history or some kind of repetition. Like you may have heard the phrase, you may have heard the idea I don't know about you guys. Because whenever I talk about &quot;Well, history is repeating itself&quot; because this thing is like this thing, but if history really, oops, I'm getting out of I'm not used to doing this. If history repeats itself, that would mean that nothing If history literally repeated itself, then there would be no human agency. It's the same thing as If things change according to a pattern, that also means no human agency, right, and so the notion that there was a time when we were great and now we have to make like the notion that there's a cycle, that there was a Golden Age and then we correct it. That's also not historical. That's also a way of So history doesn't repeat. It doesn't repeat. You learn things from history which can then help you You might see some certain patterns, but history doesn't repeat. Okay, so the thing which goes which I want us to get over the course of this class, and as we think about the nation, is the notion of human agency. Not volunteerism, like not the idea that you but the notion of human agency that you, history helps us to identify and then the better we the better we see what or could imagine that they can So when we do history, we're trying to, as it were objectively, understand the situation around a person, but we're also trying to what that person might have and we never give up on So to take the example of don't worry, we'll return but when Valdemar got himself baptized, we know he was not thinking a thousand years later, like We can be pretty sure about Christianity because we know enough about his predicament to say about was geopolitics and would be best to preserve And we'll try to explain but what we're always trying to do is to understand the which is, so to speak, of But then we're also trying to get inside the individual actors and their own minds and recognize that they have of these, and you can never quite do away with that tension between the objective and the Okay, so we've already that this kind of myth Another way that I wanted to talk about it is in terms of diversity If I give you a myth of a Golden Age, I'm usually getting rid of diversity. I'm usually getting rid of If I'm talking about how, all myths of a Golden Age are pretty much structurally the same. Interestingly, it always turns out that we were the good guys. Right, like try to think where the other guys were the good guys. If it's, funnily, it all kind It's aways, we were the good guys. We were innocent, and and they polluted us or It's structurally always the same, and it doesn't even matter You can be the most powerful the most powerful empire in in the world, hint USA, and you can still come up with a story of how you were the victim and they polluted you, but the and so when you have a story of the baptism in Kyiv is one example. You have a story about how Everything was pure, right? That's why the baptism, by It's not that Putin or that the Russian church but baptism is a notion of, it's a purifying, it's a starting again, and that's why it's such an The baptism allows us that happened before and as this kind of clean unity where anything which was polluting came from the outside, and that is a way of or getting rid of the things which might, as historians or as students of history, we might actually find to be interesting, where it gets rid of things It gets rid of origins. It gets rid of innovation. It gets rid of all of Like, for example, the alphabet. The alphabet might seem like I mean, when was the last time you guys thought about the alphabet? All right, that's not the your professor was gonna ask &quot;He was asking me about the alphabet, mom. I can't believe it. I studied so hard.&quot; So the alphabet is a really It was actually only that we take for granted and the specific Cyrillic alphabet, which came to Kyiv after the baptism, was invented by a couple a couple of Byzantine priests not Kyiv, but Moravia, not then, but a couple centuries before, and they had an interesting career and it wandered and ended up in Kyiv, and then suddenly you have this alphabet. And then that Cyrillic a kind of eternal marker of once it's established, but which came from the outside, right, like, for that matter Christianity itself. So when you focus on how things, or if you pretend that things are static, what you're doing is you're all of the innovation, and all the things which What we're gonna be is make the opposite point. That what's interesting about Ukraine is that rather than being part of somebody else's myth of purity, right, is that Ukraine actually most of the major themes and some of the major of world history. What we're gonna try to be arguing. is that as a result of as a result of this north-south and then east-west axis later on, all of the themes of European history appear in Ukrainian history, just in a slightly more So the Vikings, for example, if you're interested in European history, you may be interested in the Vikings. The Vikings, let's face it, So you have this mainstream where the Franks start a to the Franks and they and they invent these boats and they travel all over But maybe the single most is Kyiv, right? The Vikings founded states. They knocked over states. They founded the states all over the place. Normandy, for example. Normandy, as you might and establishes England in the Vikings matter a lot, it also began with Vikings, but Kyiv may be the single of the Viking Age, maybe of the Viking Age. When you look at pictures which, you know, where San thankfully, like that's a That's a legacy of Vikings If you think about the history Oh the Reformation, we is a big theme of European history. Suddenly there are Protestants and maybe there's a Hundred Years War and a third of the population of Germany is going to get wiped out and the printing press comes along and suddenly there can be disputations which seem to lead to a lot of violence. This whole thing about the is like nothing compared Like we may get there, but came along and that was a mess. But in Ukraine you have the Reformation, but it's not Catholics and Protestants, it's the Orthodox and the Greek Catholics and the Catholic and the and all kinds of Protestants. And you have a religious war in 1648, which is also a proto national and something which is So basically everything that happens in Ukrainian history, just slightly more intensely And indeed one of the that I hope you'll notice as we go along is that George Orwell said this, that the hardest thing to notice is what's right in front I don't know, this is maybe like 50 years from you'll be like, &quot;My professor to notice is what's right If you take that away, I'll The things which are are very often the things and history in a way is actually like, &quot;Oh, America's an empire.&quot; I mean, history is a way of because it gives it to of different angles at the same time, and then maybe the obvious will eventually come through, right? So the point is that Ukraine of a lot of things, which I've given you the Viking which may seem a little exotic. It's absolutely at the center It's absolutely at the center It's absolutely at the It's absolutely at the It's absolutely at the center of the collapse of the Soviet Union. It's at the center of major not just ancient and medieval, But the fact that it's, precisely the fact that it's at the makes it hard to see and hard to notice. It's sometimes hard to which is most important sometimes, because where things are most important is also where things are darkest, right, and very often Ukraine heart of darkness. Who wrote &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; by the way? - [Student] Joseph Conrad. - Where is he from? - [Student] From Poland. - Give you one more try. - [Student] Ukraine? - You're guessing though, right? Yeah. So you're not wrong but it's a very interesting trajectory. So &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; about the race for Africa. It's a remarkable novel. Conrad's a remarkable writer. Conrad is a Pole. How does he know about colonialism? Because he is from Ukraine, right? There's a recent Polish which is called &quot;Poland's which of course the Poles really didn't, in general, like to hear, but it's a very valid point. During the Renaissance period, as we'll see Polish colonialism in Ukraine was incredibly intense, and that gives Conrad the background to understand the and in turn Hannah Arendt's &quot;Origins of Totalitarianism&quot; on Joseph Conrad's novel And so it's not surprising that Arendt actually understands that Just kind of closing the loop here, but a heart of darkness is but that doesn't mean So things get wiped out of the history that are precisely the things I'm getting towards the that I wanted to make sure So we've talked about what history is. We've talked about what a nation is. We've talked about the difference I've mentioned this of Ukraine exists, why? Which is a lot trickier than So if you're living through the 21st century and I realize like this that you guys have lived through, which I find very troubling. One of the, no like, if you're me, like think about this for a second, okay, if you're me, you Every September I show up and That is really weird, right? It's very strange. And every year I get, every it's very troubling. But if you're in the 21st century, there are these moments where you say, &quot;Oh, look, Ukraine exists.&quot; Like 2004, what Ukrainians now call the Revolution of Dignity or sorry, the Orange Revolution, 2014, the Revolution of Dignity or 2022, the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It's very easy and tempting and Ukraine resists to say, But that wouldn't be a very The fact that you recognize acts doesn't mean that they On the contrary, I think the the other way. The fact that Ukrainians the Russian invasion or the civil society to a pretty impressive degree, right, and the fact that we, and that but it was a general assumption, all thought that Ukraine might say more about our than it does about the place itself. And after you misunderstand &quot;Well, it doesn't really exist. It's gonna collapse in three days&quot; and then it doesn't collapse, Your next move in order to &quot;Oh, well Ukraine must by the Russian invasion&quot; if you've been following this war at all, you will have heard &quot;Well, you Putin and Putin united Ukraine with this invasion&quot; right? And of course it's true that and so on that wouldn't have but the idea that Putin created Ukraine by invading it is ludicrous, right? You can invade lots of places, that doesn't mean that they That's not how history actually works. So that itself, that whole to say, &quot;Oh, well, Ukraine is just a way to keep which people are very which is Putin. If you're a writer in a democracy, you're very attracted to authoritarians. I don't know if you've noticed this trend, but there's a kind of seductive lure of the distant authoritarian. No, it's true. Like, the twenties and thirties, if you go back to the and you read about the way Americans wrote about not just Stalin, but also Hitler, you'll see this tendency. If you're in a democracy, by this idea that, &quot;Oh, and everything is orderly and this is kind of we fall, we go for that and with Putin even now though, it's much weaker now than There's this idea that, &quot;Oh, he's interesting. He's a strong man, and let's Let's talk about Putin and then saying, &quot;Oh, Putin created Ukraine by invading&quot; is one more way of talking about Putin rather than talking about Ukraine. In other words, it's that you're making. Well, okay. They didn't it's the paradoxical result of Okay. So there are these but what I'm trying to suggest are these triggering moments of our asking ourselves you know, as opposed to that are convenient, with what we already, which Okay. So we've done history. We've done what history is. You guys feel like, you Cause I hope so, because we only We've talked, we've the difference between history and myth. There's one more theme very quickly, and it's which I want you to have in mind. The theme is genocide. And the reason it's a 20th Century theme is that the 1948 definition that there's such a thing as a people. So Raphael Lemkin, who is what's now Ukraine, by the who's educated in the university, and what's now Lwow, when he he's assuming the existence because genocide is about the intentional destruction of a people. So it assumes that there is what we might call a nation or a society. So it's a 20th century construction. I mean genocide is the antipode We think of nations are to destroy a nation is also modern, right? The theme of genocide is a late theme, but I want you to keep it and because of the way that about where nations come from. This war is a strangely genocidal war. It's strange in the for the authors of a war to actually say at the beginning that the aim of the war is the destruction of another people. That doesn't happen very often. That might be the aim, but as it has been in this and that's the intent part of genocide. The practical part of genocide in the hundred thousand dead in Mariupol, as it appears unfortunately, in the 3 million Ukrainians deported, including a quarter million children, at least who were to into Russian culture in of rape and the murder of local elites in the territories that Russia controls and maybe more banally, but I in the systematic attempt to libraries, and archives, that nations or societies or So there is a genocidal and I want you to keep because this concept of genocide, though it's a modern concept, it also points us backwards which we're gonna be thinking about, which have to do with colonialism and which have to do or do not recognize other people. Why, what were the, if we're gonna ask the positive question, a Ukrainian nation exists how? Which I think is a really not just about Ukraine, a How was that possible? The converse question which were thrown up So why was there particularly in the Soviet Union? Why that? Why did Hitler particularly would be a good site of Lebensraum? Why in the 1970s were particularly applied to Ukraine, right? What is it about this place of so much colonial and the decades? I don't want you to to things that happened That's not my point. My point though is that I want which are what is And then the kind of to what is a nation, is what is genocide? What are the things which lead to nation? If there are things that what are the things which, what are the things that What are the deeper impulses? Not just a war which is happening now or a famine which happened then, or a terror which but what are some of the deeper forces which push us in that direction? So it's, Ukraine is a heart of darkness in that sense, right? It's a way to collect those They're not the only things but the concept of genocide that this is an important that we're gonna be investigating. Okay. So much for introductions. Thank you all for being here, and I hope to see you again next week. (class applauding) (upbeat transition tones)