Last Saturday, TGI Fridays announced bankruptcy. I really feel like announcing on a Friday but the reality is and this bankruptcy has been more then a sudden impact. They should have called it What was once a 600 location, $2 billion empire of American dining and potato skins is now down to 162 locations. With almost 100 closing Friday's is mostly blaming and yeah, COVID But Chili's a direct competitor, so let's look at what went wrong at Fridays didn't evolve with the times. Going back to the sushi Friday's chose to go with. Knowing what Friday's plans to make millions by serving Like come on, no one thought But, big picture, TGI Friday's as a business So while the dining world evolved, closing in. But we'll get to that. Along with a 20 year wasn't much better. In a sort of chain a planned acquisition with their largest million fell apart. Which, caused them to lose control leaving them aboard a sinking ship, requiring them to close restaurants worth noting that Friday's bankruptcy The 100 locations that closed or so locations that are still opened are franchisee owned as of right now. Interestingly enough, they've got $50 million in unused gift If everyone decided to cash those to cover it. $50 million seems wild Starbucks has $1.7 billion in unused gift $1.7 billion dollars! For Starbucks They see it as an interest free loan. But for Fridays Now Friday's So many of the casual dining titans Beppo joined the casual chain bankruptcy And it's not exactly shocking. Red Lobster has been crawling its way And the infamous endless shrimp promotion became more I actually love this, quote. &quot;Endless shrimp deal is never coming back Oh, it's so good. It's so good. Buca di Beppo was already on a downward slope, hit it like a freight train. It found itself with a lot of empty tables. And one that's sitting on the edge is Hooters. It's having a familiar fate. Its revenue is shrinking stale for the next generation. Here's where the whole sector One of the biggest forces is simple, price. With inflation casual dining chains like T.J.I. Friday's The prices are creeping closer to what One where you feel like and when a night out it Friday starts Sysco food, we're left asking And right on cue, the fast casual wave Chains like Chipotle, Fresh customizable food at fair prices. for the times. At Friday's for $11.49 or you can go to Chipotle and Fast casual isn't just a better deal on paper, Which is why consumers have flocked 6 piece boneless combo has done So while Friday's fast casual chains were out there a better experience. And just like that many traditional looking around, wondering An exception to all this is Chili's. Chili's looked around Their biggest competitor wasn't high They weren't in a showdown No, they were up against McDonald's and First move, shrink the menu by 25%. This isn't the Cheesecake Factory. They don't need a novel sized menu Instead, Chili's leaned into what they already did They just stuck to the basics But Chili's didn't stop there to keep those core dishes they streamlined the kitchen operation So like Chipotle, Chili's introduce cooking times to boost efficiency, cook time from 5 minutes to 2 minutes It's a game changer But to really stick the landing. Chili's went all in In some cases, it's almost cheaper now. Especially with their three for me Let's do a little comparison. So say you do the cheapest option. You get a smashburger, fries, a drink for just $10.99. Now, I want you to see what that sits So we'll get the normal Shake Shack That alone is $15.47. if we look back at Chili's, less. At TGI Fridays, like we showed And then, as if price point wasn't enough, Chili's Tiktok is flooded with videos of people into the triple dipper, and I cannot lie I watch every single one of them. I just I have to watch it. It's a compulsion at this point, I think. Maybe hyper fixation, I genuinely do. I love it. Triple dipper actually now accounts and its sales have increased 70% Revolutionary idea. A company listens to his customers and sees success. Wow. Who would have thought? So what does Friday's go from here? Is there a hope for a turnaround? Well...yeah. I mean, it won't be easy, but is possible. The proof is in the pudding. Well, I guess the closest thing is Chili's Friday's but they're not the only ones Red Lobster is attempting to claw back and put a new young CEO the menu if Friday's can attract similar investment what they actually want, it's just a long road to the top. If you want to rock and roll. Does anyone get that reference? School of Rock. Yes. Okay. All right. Our generation's not cooked. Perfect.