If you've been following my channel my forever home with the goal of reaching I wanted my home designed so that I produce as To get there, I incorporated a bunch of gadgets home batteries, a geothermal heat pump, Well, it's been a full year since I moved worked toward my net zero energy goal, a lot of It's been a real watt-and-see kind of journey. energy-efficient, what should you look out for there's the lingering question ... was all I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by I won't rehash the whole house build story. You the description. In a nutshell, my wife and that we try building a home using all the tech channel for the past several years. Basically, lot of this stuff actually works for myself. A factory built home from Unity Homes with A geothermal HVAC system for Air source heat pump water heater An Energy Recovery Ventilator High efficiency appliances ventless heat pump dryer, refrigerator, And, of course, solar panels with home Before I get into all the nerdy details of the TL;DR for my home is that we're extremely and there are things I would have done fantastic for us. This is also being broken use and efficiency. The other will be focused on What about the challenges? Well, most of to some of the construction decisions we made two, three or even four years ago when we wanted to save some money on different areas features we wanted more. We decided to go for a house with no basement. So, if we ever need to While there's nothing wrong with slab-on-grade, to plan ahead for how and where you're electrical, home networking, and intrusion points you have through With a basement as part of your thermal envelope, you have an easier time routing all of those to them later. We had to plan for all easily we can modify things later without One issue that I discovered more recently was a contractor and the roofers when building my from Unity Homes, my roof should have had ridge is important to ensure proper airflow within the moist air exhausts through the ridge vent at the comes in through soffit vents lower down. Nobody Well, the roofer only put a ridge vent along They didn't do it along the connector or above I spotted the issue, I let our contractor know, By the time you're seeing this, the roofers in the meantime, I stuck some humidity and of my attic space and confirmed that there's a The main area of the home with the ridge vent has the other attic spaces, and it also runs with There was also a learning curve around the get consistent CO2 levels throughout the humidity, and air quality sensors everywhere. so I can see how all of this looks over time. It's been super helpful. I'll get into The biggest challenge, which I've talked about in was just getting the solar and battery stuff October of last year and my battery didn't this year. I'll be getting into how the solar So, how do the results for the Before getting into those results, that's been getting fantastic results for our move into this house. That's protecting Incogni. As my wife and I were getting our house and everything else you have to do with moving, promotional emails I was getting. I'm sure you've because companies sold my information to data some pretty shady people. Or they can fall victim Incogi can help with this. We have the right to but it takes a lot of time and effort. I signed up my behalf, and then ... just sat back and relaxed. brokers they've sent legal requests too and which really has been helping me. If you want to take to your personal information, give Icogni a try. code UNDECIDED at the link below and get 60% off you for supporting the channel. So back to how the I need to address the elephant in the room first, share the exact costs of building the house state to state and town to town by so much. to 30% more per square foot than a traditional to nail that down specifically, though, because during the initial surge in pricing that Setting that aside, the most important maximizing your energy savings is its general tightness of the home? For a building to hit you have to achieve a pressure test of 0.6 of pressure (referred to as ACH/50). We achieved a mid build test, and got very close to Now make no mistake, this isn't a passive house is much closer to that level of home than a of our walls is R-35 along with triple glazed, And I believe the attic has an R value of around temperature-wise would be an understatement. It's also very quiet in the house. While house would be a tomb when it comes still hear the loudest trucks as they but it's very muted. This is hands My WaterFurnace geothermal HVAC system I'm more accustomed to the standard forced air Typically, you have a smart thermostat and fan settings dependent on whether people are is empty, or even dropping the temperature Well, with a geothermal system, you don't game of "how low can you go?" It's more like Ron Popeil's rotisserie It's better to let the geothermal My geothermal well is a single loop going down Inside the house, heat is captured and cycled for summer air conditioning. In the winter, the heating. If you try raising and dropping the it's going to take a longer time to The system is most efficient That means you'll be using more energy trying just leaving it set for longer stretches of and I decided to take a "set it and forget it" set the desired temperature range to 72 to 75 F care of itself. I did try setting the HVAC fan energy use. However, our Energy Recovery One of the challenges with a super airtight house while exhausting stale inside air out. You into heating and cooling your inside air as exchanging that heat between the inside and Inside and outside air pass through little to make this happen. The ERV has dedicated However, the ERV air pulled in from the outside to distribute it throughtout the house. An ERV and exhaust gives you a lot more control and up definitely works, but some of the control running at its normal low levels didn't the fresh air consistently throughout the house would get a little higher than I'd like. so it's running 24/7 at a very low level as a issue. I was concerned about how much energy this Strap on your nerd hardhats, because I'm about I found the energy use of my house absolutely previous house and community averages. For energy I have circuit-by-circuit energy use. Most of my use tracking as well, like WaterFurnace's Symphony really only used those to verify my Span panel's integrated into Home Assistant, which adds yet The one caveat to what I'm about to share is from October of last year because my Span panel Basically, my two Span panels were incorrectly panel's circuits were associated with the but a problem when the electrician first set all screwed up for about six weeks. in time for Halloween, because nothing's Let's look at the data I do or about 10 months' worth. The top My network closet at 19.2% Charging my EV at 12% Water heater at 5.2% The rest is made up of other odds and ends, but which is much lower than I expected. Considering electricity use going towards heating and air what the heck is going on with my network closet? That said, I would be lying if I said my rack with multiple Ubiquiti network switches, a of Unifi Protect security cameras around attached storage (NAS) for archiving all of I run a business out of my home, so there's a going to have. I did manage to cut my network and there's a few other things I'm going to be to compare my energy use in a way that's I need to remove my network closet and EV from Now my geothermal system is at 22.3% Water heater at 7.5% And the ERV at 2.3% My heating and air conditioning still comes in good data for my previous house as a comparison Span smart panel data from the old house before But I can do an apples to oranges comparison with for heating alone. We averaged the equivalent My current geothermal average of 193 KWh a electricity to run the HVAC fans) is still only That's the one-two punch of my geothermal system house. And for those of you wondering what "heat that it's not directly related to my geothermal but I'm still trying to figure out what it What's even more interesting to me is my hot a heat pump water heater, but it's also tied into heat from the HVAC system to help preheat water 65 KWh a month for hot water. In my old house we to KWh (1 Therm = 29.3 KWh). On average, we used we're using only 16% of the energy we used in the What would I have done differently? Nothing have been better if we had opted for a lot of the headaches we ran into trying and networking runs. It would also have given stuff over time without having to worry about Another would-be bonus: extra climate-controlled don't have that. Keeps us from turning into As much as I love our geothermal system, it my previous geothermal video you've probably seen I know from my YouTube analytics that a a regular basis still aren't subscribed, or that a lot from some of you). Subscribing and you not miss a video, but it also helps out the As far as the geothermal cost, we were building decades. Spending a little more upfront to but your mileage will vary there. Air source they do work in the cold. I'd recommend heat pump setup because it's just or standard electrical system you natural gas prices will vary how much of a but you will come out ahead over time. It's I'd also STRONGLY recommend a ventless heat needs. They're dramatically more efficient I are using about 31 KWh on average per month dryer. Dryers that vent outside of your home are home. Not only is it using more electricity but it's forcing your HVAC system to work a heat pump dryer may take a little more time using a fraction of the energy and not exhausting And, to continue my trend of recommending I'd also highly recommend going with a replace your old one. You can check out my but in a nutshell ... they work well and Mine paired with the geothermal system is Lastly, we're also really liking our induction video too, but after living with one for the than any other electric cooktop I've ever used. turn it off ... it's off. It brings a pot to a boil I highly recommend it. Faster cooking means less great warning system for when my cat is walking capacitive buttons as she walks across them. As for my goal of hitting net zero energy, over the course of year, I'll be getting into that the final assessment of "was this worth it" -- so not miss that one -- but from a more anecdotal and quiet house I've ever lived in. I can say so it's definitely pulling its weight to But what do you think? Do you have any experiences Jump into the comments and let me know and Still TBD where we'll keep this conversation your continued support ... you really help to keep