- In those quiet moments when we find ourselves wrestling the nature of our to turn to the observable We look out at the cosmos to try and decipher how the Universe came to be or we consider the rules that govern the smallest particles of matter- all of the stuff that makes up you and me and everything else. But there's something else that's fundamental to our existence. The thing that makes us, us. That, in a word, is consciousness. But what exactly is consciousness? - It seems to me that so many of the conversations about consciousness and existence can be incredibly esoteric, but you are a person who's actually doing scientific investigation into questions of consciousness. How do you make it coherent and make it something wrap your hand around - How did that feel? - It felt like something, - That's what conscious It's the most basic thing there is. - Okay. - When somebody steps on your toe or I'm thinking whether to make the point, it hurts. - Yeah. conscious is- it's as basic as that. It's what you see. It's what you hear. It's the pains you have. It's the love you have. The fear, the passion, - So it's experience and awareness. - It's really the same, with different names for experience, awareness, subjectivity, phenomenology, qualia, these all different words that philosophers, other It is the experience of anything. If I'm dead, if I'm deeply anesthetized or I'm in a deep sleep, There's no one home, there's no experiences. So that's the difference. It's a central aspect You know it's the most famous 'cogito, ergo sum,' literally means &quot;I'm conscious, therefore, I know I am.&quot; The only way I know I exist, Remember Neo in &quot;The Matrix&quot;? - You know at one point he wakes up to the true world or the world of the machine, but he never has any doubt that he exists. Why? Because he experiences things. - Humanity has made tremendous progress in our understanding of the world- and yet, there remains no widely accepted explanation of what consciousness is. It's still this tantalizing mystery for scientists and philosophers alike. This is, as the philosopher &quot;The hard problem of consciousness.&quot; In this episode we'll spiritual leaders, and even a Nobel laureate the mystery of consciousness and continue humanity's eternal search for meaning and purpose in our vast, miraculously complicated, and incomparably mysterious cosmos. This is &quot;Dispatches from The Well&quot;. &quot;I think therefore, I am.&quot; This was the fundamental thing that philosopher and believed he could say about the world. I think, therefore, I am. No matter what anyone might do or say that fundamental truth Ultimately, I am something. Bye. There is an experience of being me and there is presumably an So as we seek to understand the Universe in which we all live, all of from this same subjective So we're here in New York at the New York Academy of Sciences' and I am certainly someone about the hard problem of consciousness, how it emerges and what and how to talk about There is the question of existence and directly related to that is this question of our I'm not sure if those are or one question, but taken all together, it's certainly something In fact, it feels, which The feeling of life itself. This is how Christof Koch It's also the title of his in which he argues that consciousness is likely more widespread For more than 30 years, Christof has been working to generates subjective So who better to help us understand the contours of this debate and help define some of the key terms? - If you go to grad school, they tell you physics everything there is. And you learn about relativity theory and you learn about quantum but nowhere is there But here I am, I'm conscious, so how do I go from but they don't have anything to a conscious being- that's the mystery. - What is that lack of interest in the question of consciousness? Is it a lack of interest - No, I think many scientists would say, &quot;I don't doubt that I'm conscious, but I don't know how to It's something we should But I always felt that's a cop-out, because if science claims how can it not describe the - Right. and that you're also conscious, so it has to account for it. - The principle instrument alongside any other tools- - Yes, yes. - Yes, without conscious there's nothing. Without conscience, I can't I can't do science. I can't do anything. So I have to understand the tools that I use to understand the world. - How did you become interested - I had a really bad toothache. - Okay. - Why does it hurt? Why does it hurt? Well the conventional explanation, which is true as far as it goes, you know your tooth is inflamed, sends electrical energy that goes inside the spinal cord is switched to a double relay And now in your brain proper, you have some neurons that fire. What does that mean? Well, that means some potassium-chloride ions sloshing on. So what? Well, I mean, why does it hurt? There are ions sloshing on my liver and I have no conscious Hell, there's stuff occurring but I don't feel it. But somehow here it feels. So there's this explanatory gap, this is what philosophers call them. On the one hand you have or heart and other organs, and the other hand you and it's very unclear how do Okay, this is the beating And I was a physicist and so I said, &quot;Hell, neuroscience should be 'Cause after all, it's not the heart that gives So I'm a brain scientist, to use modern, scientific the link between the At the time I was working the Nobel laureate who discovered the double helical structure of DNA. And he and I then popularized this notion of the neuronal called the NCC, the Neuronal using scientific tools to track where are the footprints in your brain? Are they all over the brain or are they just in a Are they in your spinal cord? - According to this theory, there are specific mechanisms in the brain that are necessary and sufficient for a If this could be sufficiently measured, scientists might at where consciousness occurs in the brain, even if we couldn't explain how. In spite of more than since Koch and Crick put forth this theory it remains just that, a theory. Is consciousness simply an Or does it exist somewhere Do we have any way of knowing? - I would say the shoe's Essentially, philosophy of the physical and the mental. Materialism says, &quot;All there is, is matter and consciousness is, you're It doesn't really exist.&quot; That's what a modern analytical An idealist would say, &quot;Well, the only thing that and this entire world, ultimately, is a manifestation of the mental.&quot; And there's some people who say, &quot;Well, both exist simultaneously and it's like the inside and the outside.&quot; From the outside, there's You, including your brain. But then from the inside you feel. That's exactly the way feels from the inside. So both exist simultaneously, - Panpsychism suggests that consciousness, the subjective experience of being aware, isn't just something that Instead, the theory goes, an inherent characteristic of all matter. Imagine every tiny thing in the Universe has some tiny bit of consciousness. Whether you buy it or not, So what's the difference - So dualism says there are This is the way I grew up. I grew up as a Catholic 'Okay, there's your brain and This is like the spirit and that's a soul. And the soul makes you do thing, you know the soul ultimately and of course once you die, the soul sort of gets and maybe gets resurrected to live in the eschaton and all of that.' But then the problem has always been what's the connection between and the mental, the soul? Because if the soul is how does the soul make my brain do things? And so there's no you know because it We've never measured any such a soul. So we got rid of it. Panpsychism is different. Panpsychism really says, &quot;Fundamentally, everything in the has an inner aspect and It's not something in additional but it comes inherent Complex things have complex Simple things like maybe a fly or Protozoa have very, very, very simple - So there are degrees of consciousness? - Yes. this consciousness - That's correct. So we have a lot of it but, of course, there could be And as a baby with little of it, and a dog has has less of it. Like my dog doesn't but my dog is clearly conscious. You know it can have pain and pleasure and it can be happy and sad. And mice, presumably, have less and bees, presumably, have becomes so dim at the root of life. You know does a fly Right now, it's very difficult But it may well feel like to be alive, to have just - Over on the other side of Central Park is an unassuming townhouse wherein the Vedanta Society Hey. - Namaste, namaste. - And good morning. It's a place where consciousness has been a topic for more than 100 years. Swami Sarvapriyananda, a Hindu monk, is its minister and spiritual leader. You're in a profession that interested in these of what we can know for certain. - Yes. - That traffics in things that all of us, I think, wrestle with Who am I? Why am I here? What am I supposed to do? - I think human beings, wherever they are and whichever time we live, we have always been fascinated As you said, who am I really? What am I doing here? What's the point of all of And what is this? - How do you define consciousness? - That's a great question the central theme in what we teach in the philosophy of - Hmm. - The reason Vedanta and in general, have been is the common project in ancient India was how to go beyond suffering. How to attain fulfillment in human life and that concerns the human self. And when you come to the first thing that strikes you is that central to And so they became very interested in what this consciousness was. The way we look at consciousness If you ask Christof Koch or they try to look at it from outside in. You know they'll study the brain and then electrical activity in the brain and try to understand What we do is we look I mean the evidence of consciousness is available to all of us. That's the first experience We're first aware and then Consciousness itself 'cause it's self-evident. It's what in Vedanta we Light is a good example. In a dark room, when you switch on a light everything in that room, they're all revealed by that light. You don't need another Consciousness is the light of lights, in Sanskrit (speaking By its light, everything here is lit up. When we are seeing, hearing, thinking, speaking, doing things, all the time one common thread all throughout is that we're conscious. These are all activities, And if you define life as then what we would say is consciousness plus an object. You are aware and then - Right. that we're aware of, they keep changing. So we have a series of experiences. And consciousness plus Consciousness plus object two is another experience and so on. And the consciousness is constant. In Western thought the one I would say, was the philosopher, Descartes, who about 300 an absolute certain basis for knowledge. And he questioned whatever you could doubt, but he can't be doubted. &quot;I think, therefore I exist.&quot; Vedanta would say that, exactly, but you need to go one step further. Even when I don't think, I'm still aware of not thinking. - Hmm. - Yeah, that's a- - Consciousness is primary. Either thinking or not thinking, seeing. I think that's what Descartes In Descartes &quot;Meditations&quot;, there's a very poignant &quot;How strange it is that I can doubt it. I'm not sure of it. We can doubt any of this exists.&quot; It could be in the Matrix, But what I'm absolutely I don't know anything about - Do you think anything about the different approaches and understanding consciousness, say the spiritual and the that they necessarily lead about meaning and purpose? - I am a conscious being, Before even I am a body or a human being, I'm a conscious being first. And if that consciousness as an illusion or as nothing in your living in the brain, in that case, the things which like meaning and purpose, They will also be reduced to either matter or be dismissed as an illusion. You'll inevitably have a worldview which is devoid of meaning, of purpose. So now we have this profoundly disconnected There is science, hardcore science, and which claims absolute And there is religion, humanities, all of which science would You know that reality is and from that life has evolved. And then life sort of comes up with these little illusions value, beauty, goodness. I think one interesting place is this, where right now with ChatGPT notice something very Whatever we human beings are capable of and we thought our highest like memory or like creativity, Now these machines, AI-powered machines are capable of doing all and that one thing is And if you say that, all right, they wouldn't know where to begin. That's why they're asking and how can you know artificial programs, machines become conscious. That's a huge issue. - So some people say, &quot;Well, and I asked if it was conscious- - Yes. it was conscious. So therefore it's conscious.&quot; - Right. - And you're like, &quot;Okay by the way, here I am, I sit here as a I tell you I am God.&quot; Okay? Right? I mean like that doesn't, you know there's more to - There's some competing claims. - Yes. - Yes. - Reid Hoffman is one of tech entrepreneurs and investors. Perhaps best known for his role in helping to co-found LinkedIn, he's also an accomplished writer and a student of philosophy. Reid was an early investor the startup responsible the best known artificial ChatGPT. ChatGPT is a large language model that answers questions put For example, what are the challenges in trying to understand the Reid explored the ins and outs by actually co-authoring &quot;Impromptu&quot; with GPT-4. We wanted to talk to Reid about could help us better and what it means to be conscious. When was the first time you remember thinking about artificial intelligence? - Well my undergraduate is basically artificial So I was interested in how how we understand ourselves, and how we do that both And Stanford had a great and part of why it ended and cognition was my specific &quot;Okay, these cognition help us understand our own, might even create something really amazing and understand what intelligence is 'cause we are very anthropocentric. So it's like, well, - Yeah. - And you're like, &quot;Well, we certainly of thinking beings and creatures. But think about all the Like we generally are very negative on how other animals think. And like they think a lot I mean they pair bond, they mate for life. They coordinate in packs and groups. I mean there's all kinds of things. And we say, &quot;Well, they don't really think the way we think.&quot; Well of course they don't but they do think, right? Well, now we also have How do these machines think? 'Cause, by the way, they They're not thinking the way we are. They may not be thinking in some regard, but it's a And so you think about, all of these different patterns of thought and where are they similar - Okay, Descartes is, &quot;I - Yes. and in general with respect to philosophy, there's no uniformity of that you are having a conscious experience in the same way that I am Is that true or no or do you disagree? - Okay. - So part of what I think Wittgenstein and other philosophers did to put it in fairly simple terms: So he says, &quot;I think, therefore I am,&quot; because I go through this doubt and I realize that I must exist in order to doubt that I'm existing. So okay I'm formulating I think therefore I exist. How do I formulate that thought? How does it have any coherence? How is it communicable And when you begin analyzing language, you begin to realize there may be some kind of, as it were, transcendental observations that come about if you believe- - Uh-huh, I think I but you may need to explain But go ahead. - Yes, if you believe that in communicating at all - Okay. - So then you begin to go and how do we apply a word like conscious? And I say, &quot;I am conscious and we learn the Wittgenstein phrases, we're a form of life and And Wittgenstein's argument would be because of the way the in our form of language we do actually, in fact, share some and shared even though it is each of our subjective consciousnesses. - Okay. that that our consciousness Like where I smell something and you smell something else- - When you smell apricot- - The quality of- Maybe there's something that is diverse and subjective in it, but we learn in our use of language the pattern by which we and we synchronize in our language dances with each other what that is. And so we have some level of quality of shared experience in what that is. And so there is, in forms of life, a presumption that successful language use does lead to some observations not just by science, but by to each other about the worlds that we are mutually living in. - Okay, so I'm persuaded that you are also conscious then. - Yes. - But we are living in a there's been this thunder and energy with and around AI with ChatGPT and all of these large language models. And it's remarkable how quickly the And I understand why people &quot;It's not conscious.&quot; But it seems to me that there's something about the way these mechanisms, and which we largely how they seem to do things in a way that's kind of mechanistic. But I suppose we do things but we also have a conscious experience. And how will we know if the machines are having some sort of in addition, to the mechanistic Is it preposterous to think - It's certainly not preposterous, although it's preposterous the 'Cause I think right now to tools than they are to creatures. Because part of how we make judgements and consciousness is like one of us will say something to &quot;Oh that is, actually, about the experience of that.&quot; Or I see your response or in pain with this and then I see a reflection And so that's part of and the devices aren't there right now. There's nothing that says the devices couldn't get - Right. of that is, well, how do we learn better about ourselves in that, too. Like for example even playing with GPT-4, which I've been playing when I go, &quot;Wow, this thing better than 99% of human beings.&quot; All right, what's the role of specialness? Like what are the things that we still do that we are so much better than this at? And so then how do we still I think is one of the great questions about how do we come to cognitive entities in ourselves and how do we have a elevated dancing together, etc. - I don't think consciousness It's clearly a continuum and it's a continuum within an individual. You know I'm more And within a collection of species; you know I think certain species are more conscious than other species and I think it's true You know maybe, I don't think that are conscious in any But I think if we ever do, - Melanie Mitchell is a professor at the Santa Fe Institute who studied artificial - Technical thing I'm gonna say tonight. - She's also the author of A Guide for Thinking Humans&quot;. - I've been interested in science my whole life, essentially. But I got really interested when I read Doug Hofstadter's way back when I graduated from college. It was about how intelligence can emerge from this giant collection like cells in the body, So a neuron isn't intelligent, I think most people would agree to that. But when you put a huge and they interact in certain ways. What we call intelligence a lot of other kind of like emotions, self-awareness and other things of that nature. So that was incredibly fascinating to me. And I kind of got into AI because I went to work with Hofstadter and that's what he was working on. I mean it was sort of a mix 'cause we were interested in understanding human intelligence by trying to develop All this AI controversy has kind of brought it into the limelight of the broader public thinking about like what is consciousness? What is this thing we call self-awareness? How is that different from You know things that people But you know we have these systems now that talk to us in natural language and they seem like they're self-aware. We know that they probably But how would we tell? What kind of tests would we give? And then we start realizing don't just apply to like AI; they apply to things like - Sure. you know maybe 30, 40 years ago, people used to think that - Hmm. on newborn babies without anesthesia. You know it seems crazy now. You know our understanding of how consciousness Often, a lot of people don't think animals have consciousness and that, therefore, it's fine to use them as farm laborers and to eat them and But we really have very of these questions about consciousness. So I think AI has helped us to really see that this is an important question, not just for philosophy, - Yeah. making moral decisions. - Good morning to you. - And good afternoon to you, sir. - Whatever we have in our heads which enables us to understand things is not something you It's very relevant, of course, to what people say now about AI. You see they seem to say, &quot;Oh well, these AI systems they're so clever, so smart that they'll supersede us.&quot; But to me, that's a mistake. They get pretty clever and they can do all sorts of sure, but they don't understand anything. They don't understand what they're doing. Understanding is a quality and they don't have consciousness. - Sir Roger Penrose is a mathematician, physicist and philosopher of science. He's won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on black holes and shares a Wolf Prize for their contributions to the In 1988, he published a book venturing into the Most approaches to using classical physics that sounds like a really But for some scientists and philosophers, there's a nagging sense that about consciousness that can't be captured by classical physics alone- and, as a result, can't be This is what led Roger to and mystery of quantum the weirdness and - So I began to wonder about, &quot;Well, what is it that which isn't something you Now I am a physicalist, in the sense that I believe is part of the physical world. And it's the same with or what's going on in this All those things are part The argument I would make if you make a conscious decision, your conscious action but it's something which depends on this mysterious part of physics which is a sort of gap which is the collapse - In quantum mechanics, the collapse of the wave function refers to what happens when you try to, actually, measure the at a given moment in time. The thing is quantum can exist in multiple Think of it like a roll of the dice. When they're in the air, They have no numerical value at all. But when they land, they collapse into one of 21 possible combinations But the single number you land on isn't an accurate description of the dice as they exist when they're when all the possibilities Penrose theorized that, may have a role in - There's a probability of But maybe that's not the whole story. There's more to the story which means that this is something which, in our brains, we sort of harness whatever is going on. And this was the point I you asked me about the or I can call them they're a little more technical And &quot;The Emperors New Mind&quot; And I was trying to okay, there must be something which requires the collapse and that, that is the of whatever consciousness is. - Hmm. read my book and he got hold of me and said, &quot;Well, evidently you don't know about something else, He didn't say it like that, And I was completely he was absolutely right. I didn't know what they were - Stuart Hameroff is an around the same time in the 1980s, was trying to understand consciousness by studying the process Together, Roger and Stuart theorized that perhaps these microtubules, tiny straw-like structures that help give our cells their shape and act like highways for that these microtubules could be where these quantum processes occur, giving rise to consciousness. - Anyway, so we got together I think nobody really believed us. I think it's got to the point where it's sort of one of the three or four most prominent theories. So it's taken sort of seriously. And I think that it's regarded as, certainly, a different angle from what most people would think. They tend to think it's some kind of computer-like action in the brain. And what we're trying to say is, &quot;No, it's something quite different.&quot; - Penrose and Hameroff's theory known as 'orchestrated remains controversial. But it's not called the hard problem of There is no shortage of arguments for and against, virtually, every proposed explanation of When we were chatting a bit earlier about science and religion, I was having a little bit of trouble squaring your perspective. Because in one respect, I think and religion shouldn't and it oughta be able to address But in another respect, we are defining two very - Yes. define religion and how relative to one another? - Our definition of religion would be that it's the manifestation of a and the goal is to manifest - Hm. through philosophy. You do it through meditation. You do it through devotional religion. You do it through good works. In all the ways in which humanity has tried to become better and greater, it is a manifestation of And science, as far as we have it now, is a quest to understand what reality is. So far it has been focused and, curiously, it has ignored ourselves. You know, at most, we and we've learned an But the science of the mind I mean if you ask a what's a thought? There is no space for a thought. You have to explain everything and time and space. Where in time, space, What they will immediately say is that, of course, a thought is nothing But that's where you run into the hard problem of consciousness. And that's the biggest question in consciousness studies today. You know what exactly is consciousness? That it cannot be reduced to a brain. So even from a very rigorous, you can no longer deny that it might be, in principle, through at least our - Um-hm. - And I'm open, actually, and people might think that you're a monk and committed to religion, which I am, but I'm also open in principle to the idea that I could be completely wrong. - Sure. or Daniel Dennett might that it just might be matter. And therefore, all our religion, all of it might be just a Religion is good, but I I subscribe to the heavy that there is an ultimate reality, which you may dress up as God, but something like that exists and it's somehow deeply connected to our existence as consciousness - There are many theologians who have a very different And they imagine, perhaps, that there is this kind of and is perhaps outside of our own world and that our conscious experience, separate from the material world, is something else altogether. That it can't possibly be understood in the way that you are Do you have a general sentiment with respect to the competing approach? - Well, very often it's because they agree that in this life, my brain is essential for conscious. If I lose my brain due to an accident or gunshot or whatever, - Yeah. we both agree. They offer a larger narrative but then God will resurrect you in the fullness of time.&quot; - I have no proof of that. I have no disprove that it doesn't happen. But for myself it doesn't, because there's simply no evidence for it. There's this other view, which is sort of non-religious, it's all a manifestation of the mental.&quot; And if you die, yes, will be absorbed into the greater whole, think of it like an ocean. You are right now an individual But then when you die, you'll and be part of the larger conscious. So in that sense, what is most fundamental it's actually the mental. - Um-hm. personal survival. It's very different from the classical, you know you will be there in heaven floating around in some cloud in paradise. - Right. It's interesting that you the sort of mystery of all of that and that drop could either never to be heard from again or returning to become And one could hold the and frame it in those different ways- - In two different ways, yes. - And the physicalist would say, yeah, that drop disappears into Or an idealist would say, no, it returns sort of to that the ooze or substance from which it all came. It's a very different view, but you know might be true. - Yeah, what if this is just ineffable? We can approach it, but we'll always be infinitely far away. - Yeah, there's no a final ultimate theory of consciousness. But I know there's a guarantee that there will not be such - The debate over how consciousness works, where it resides and why we have, it seems unlikely to be But as humans, we're in our understanding with But I've gotta say that with something as fundamental to our it's hard to imagine that it - Maybe there is a teleology towards the elevation of consciousness and being in the Universe, which we are somehow participants in, may be leading examples of. That would be a beautiful existence. - You would like that to be- - That would be a great, - Okay. the Buddhism karmic rebirth is one of the most elegant metaphysics, should it actually, in fact, really exist. Look, say the world there's no reason that we as if it doesn't. We can say, &quot;No, we think a thing of beauty, a thing of importance about the expansion of That is the mission that we're on, that we are demonstrating and it doesn't matter if you say, wow, there's only like physics But let's act in a way such that, that the nobility of that quest of becoming our aspirational humanity, becoming more conscious We can choose that. We can anoint that. We can say that is where we're going. - Consciousness is a gift. Whatever it turns out to be and whether or not it has It's the foundation of all human action: past, present and future. It imbues us with the to understand the Universe- and, sometimes, even to step back and appreciate that