The scale of the universe is incredibly biggest thing you can think of - a blue the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, Mount Everest. imagine. But the scale of the universe is than that. It's much bigger than you can that the universe is also smaller than Think of the smallest thing you can going because the universe is many And that's the problem. Most of us can't it's utterly unrelatable, daily earthly lives. For example, there 10 followed by 21 zeroes. That's grains of sand on all the beaches of before. What you may not have heard is it is large. For example, the smallest Planck length, is about 1.6 x 10^-35 is so small, that if an atom was the size much smaller than even the head of a pin. length cubed, or about 4 x 10^-105 cubic meters is so small that there are more Planck volumes cubic meters in the known universe. Let's some genius animations created by Cari given us permission to use them. The link below. So exactly how long is a Planck something that small. What is the smallest length in the universe? That's Let's start with the scale of the human relatable scale we can think of. Just of your body - things like the giant Australia, or a big each ball which can across America. We're looking right now 1 meter in length. Now let's go smaller looking at things that are on the scale centimeters. these are things like the mammals found on earth, or a chicken egg this morning. Now we're going to move a bit than the scale of a human being, on the thousandth of a meter. Here you're going to can be about half a millimeter in length over your bed, because they love to eat morning, this could be the culprit. You eye. Let's go a thousand times smaller hundred times smaller than the width of meter, and ten times smaller than even a like large viruses. Unlike bacteria, 99% majority of viruses (inside your body) will make you sick. ineffective against viruses. Let's keep this. This is nanometers, or one billionth universe that we can't see with our order of the size of the DNA molecule, is on the scale of molecules, like the a source of energy, and the scale of the big even though it doesn't have the most combination of a large valence shell and electrons to wander further away from smaller than even this. This is one scale of the wavelength of gamma rays. electromagnetic radiation, consisting of are emitted during nuclear explosions, such as exploding stars, just before they a thousand times smaller than this. This quadrillion of a meter. This is the size atoms, protons and neutrons. The size of a thousand times larger than its nucleus. football stadium, the biggest stadium in marble sitting in the middle of the getting close to the smallest size we are nowhere close. You have to go a quadrillion of a meter, or 1 x 10^ -30 meters. And you would still have to go another hundred 1 x 10^-35 meters, then fact if an atom was the size of the than the size of an atom. It would be exactly is a Planck length? And why is it actually derived from three fundamental the properties of space-time, the speed speed of communication in the universe. signifies the magnitude of gravitational The reduced Planck constant, h-bar carries depending on its electromagnetic are really the only constants that universe, and all its contents. By taking these constants, and reducing their units, here, if we take the units of the three them mathematically, we can come up with And by a similar mathematical time, and Planck energy. But what does this signify? Why is it significant? Well, which gravity would have an effect. it's theory. It's also the scale at which quantized in the theory of loop quantum Why isn't it some other number? Well the the fundamental constants of the determined that using the known laws of gravitation, it is impossible to precision smaller than the Planck length. quantum mechanics, a length smaller than note that I said &quot;known laws.&quot; It is the Planck length, gravity or quantum that we may not yet be aware of. Since we gravity, this is quite possible. And until scales, we just need to wait for the next remarkable things about the Planck the fundamental constants of the everything, this length is going to be speak, what units you might use, or even that's right, if we ever come across notes, smallest length possible in the universe. with those shy aliens that only seem to areas of the United States. In part 2 of end of the scale, how large the universe you can imagine. us a thumbs up, and share it with your other popular videos. I'll see you in the