Jai Guru Dev Jai Masters Generally, if something's wrong, uncomfortable, destructive in your life, you fix it. That's simple. You don't leave things that are causing destruction, causing issues, problems in your life, That's rather straightforward. Some of us do pretty well Some of us do pretty well with our bodies. There's certainly food Things you can dream that may taste good And then you crash. They make you sick. If you want to be happy in your life you have to deal with that stuff. You can't keep doing destructive things The drugs people get high on a drug Yeah, it's nice, it's good. But let's see what happens. It's destructive, period. All drugs are destructive. Even prescription drugs are destructive. We're seeing that more and more. There are times But even when you take antibiotics, We learn different things. So at a minimum, what you try to do is not do You try to at least have your act together you know, some of these are destructive. You know, something's not working. You know, something is taking away You just don't do it. We need to talk about that. What does it mean to just not do it? I swear you can make books about it it means to just not do it. That's what it means. If you're smoking or drinking and it's causing problems in your life, And you see it. And it's your health, and you You decided to stop smoking. I'm going to stop drinking. I swear to you, that should be the end of it. That should be the end of it. If you decide yourself now but if you've seen it that this is not benefiting my life, it is momentarily to smoke or nervousness or whatever It momentarily makes a little bit better. But the overall effect that it's having, it will. It is destructive. It is not giving you a good life. It is taking away your life. The moment you see that you have the right will be the obligation to say, I want to have a beautiful life. I want to enjoy my life. This over time, is taking that away. This is not doing that. So therefore, I stop doing that. I'm telling you, But once you get that clarity, And I don't want to understand I know I can sit here and listen and feel sorry for you, To me, you just stop doing it. What does that mean? It means in order to smoke, and put in your mouth. Don't. There? All order to drink. You must put liquor into a glass. Pick it up and swallow it. Don't do it. What was so hard about telling you You're already doing it. You just don't do it. It should be the easiest thing There should be absolutely nothing to it. They baby you. You, baby yourself. It's one thing if I sit there and say, How can I make her do something? That's hard, right? I'm not going to make you do something. Just stop doing something. If you have the ability to do it, You're the one who is doing it. You are asserting the will to go get a cigaret, Just don't assert that will and I guarantee you It requires you to do it. So why would it not be that easy? Because you formulate habits. Habits are flows of energy. They're used to following that way. It is just like if there's a a hill and it rains, water starts to flow down Once it flows down that windy road, the softest earth that has the most angle The next time it rains, I guarantee And the next time And eventually, That is what's going to happen. It carves a pathway and that pathway That is exactly what is happening Your habit patterns, You know me. I'm going to talk But right now, and your interaction because that's very easy So what happens is you have carved Maybe that's All right. Well, yoga talks about not expose your energy system has carved pathways because you have behave that way Therefore, the energy flows that way It's a habit. There's actually we call it Smoke is a habit getting angry to have it. These are habits. A sort of habit is a habit is a pathway and doing something to change it, And if the energy flows that way, the next thing you know You don't know how it got there. So somehow automatically it knew how to. I told you try program aiming a robot pull up one of the 20 cigarets That's a lot of programing. I've programed before it. You wait to see how put in his ear you have to do something. Exactly right. To succeed at getting that thing. But you have carved the pathway You don't have to think about it. It happens automatically. That is called a habit. It goes habit. If you wish to stop doing that. The reason it is difficult, it is not difficult to not do. You have to assert the energy you have, the waste, the energy to do it The problem is the energy so that if you don't do it, are you ready? It is going to be uncomfortable. If I want to change the way the water is flowing down after it carved itself, I need a shovel. If I let it go long enough, Right. I need to get out there and break my back to dig another hole, another channel, Otherwise, it's going to go right It is exactly the same inside of you. I want you to see these neural pathways as those ditches Now, if you want it to flow and I guess somebody told you, but This is ruining my life. This is making me sick. This is causing problems, etc.. I firmly believe that the only way is when you decide I interested in other people influencing that kind of stuff. Ultimately, you're in there. Hi. You all have a nice life, right? You think smoke Open your eyes. The drink is going to give it to you. Open your eyes. You think anger's going to give it to you? Getting mad when you can't handle Does it give it to you? Right. No. I did 30 years of prison work. I know very well where that ends up. People end up locked up So stay with the outside. Well, go to the inside the minute. So the question becomes, once you decide for yourself, I know and they did read books But ultimately you decided your diet. You are the one who sneaks out and puts You decide the level of your diet. And I'm telling you, until you decide because you are the person in order to change the behavior pattern Nobody can do it for you. Don't let them lie to you They can do it right. It will never last. Why? Because you need the will inside. Develop strong enough to change It may well stay It'll pop up in six other things. Because if you have not developed and fortitude inside yourself of the habit pattern, it will just move Have you noticed that? So what life is about is you developing your strength, your true core strength, strength or your true core strength Check. Right. Hi. You know, Hi. Everybody in there? I am in here. This is my life. It's not my parents life. It's not my wife's life. It's not my kid's life. It's my life. I was given this time by the universe To be conscious and to experience and interact with the moments That's what my life is. It will always be that, won't it? Okay. If I eat Twinkies and drink Cokes it may but I'm tired, my muscles hurt, I crash. I don't have the strength. Sugar does that to you. All right. If you said that I'm trying None of you have Twinkies for breakfast, All right. If you do something with your diet and I'm not telling you what to eat, but there are things that make you sick If you do those things, You're going to be sick and sick. Does it make for a nice life? Does it? You can't have fun when you're sick. You can't enjoy the different You want to go out. So-and-so says he likes you. Wow, you've always been attractive, I don't see that. That's fun. All right, so you wake up I am in here. I have control over these things. I don't have control over everything, but I sure as heck have control whether I smoke in control of how much or will I do drugs and control over, etc., Right. I have ultimate control over me If I have not exercised that control, if I have not woken up enough to say, Hey, this is my kingdom in here, I'm You could say that. Anybody else will say But inside of you, you're the boss. There's nobody else in there. So if you have allowed habits to form, that way, and we all have, We're very habitual creatures. If you allow these habits to form and then you notice that they are not healthy, to a greater or lesser Seemed okay at the moment. It seems okay now. Good. Now you're ripe. Like I said, nobody's telling you. You decided for yourself. This is not helping me my joys, my directions in life. Okay, then don't do it now. Change it. I'm not even talking about do anything, Talk about things that are destructive, All right? If you're the one who's doing it, I don't understand how you could tell me I don't. Making sense to you. I'd be happier if he would behave a certain way And move. Okay. Okay. You may not get that one Right. But if I would be happier If I stopped doing. I'd be happy Whatever it is, I'm All right, So you start at home. I very means growth starts at home, It starts with you. So you look and you see. Yes, I've decided these things. I decided now I'm going to do them. And you're going to see that And that's where I want you. That's what I want you. That's the place where your growth is. That's where the rubber hits the road. When you have decided this is destructive, I have decided not to do anymore. And a moment comes. The next thing you know you're doing it. That moment is worth There is no higher moment in your life where you decided something Because if you can't do it with yourself, Nails. You don't stand a chance when your boss criticizes and still putting your heart because you're getting ahead of yourself. All right? So you decide that my starting position is It's not like you to say I'm not that kind That's ridiculous. You didn't know calculus You didn't how to play tennis You didn't know how to do anything, right? You know how to play piano When you first took it, you learned. So don't take the attitude. Oh, I've never had strong will I? I've done that now I'm. I good at that. What's the alternative? is there? There is no alternative. Okay. I have this habit. Every time I get into the car, All right. I tried to stop it, but I just. I just can't. What's the alternative? There's no alternative. You're not doing that. It's just not a good thing to do. You know, you can't do this. You need to stop doing this. There's no way around the fact that if you can't deal with yourself I'm telling you, that's the foundation You got to get that one together. So what happens if I find that I don't All right, Then you develop it. You develop it I'll tell you exactly They learn to play the piano you know, like Sonata and sit down full, full edition and say, Oh, shoot, No, you learn to play the piano Well, what good is that? That's not Beethoven, believe me. It's good, isn't it? Play the scales. Just play the scales. All right? Because if he can't do the scales, If you can do the scales, you're closer. Learn to read music. Three Blind mice. Three blind mice. Yeah. All right. I know it doesn't sound like Beethoven, with the scales and with the reading, It is exactly the same with yourself. All right? You happen Doesn't look like it. But you are all right, Look how excited you get. If a monkey can do something Right. Look how bright you are. Forget calculus. You learned algebra, you learn math You have learned so many things. You can drive a car. It's unbelievable. All the things going on at once. You're there, you're conscious, you are So basically you learn to learn So you start with little things. You just start with if you want to do it, You sit there and say, Okay, I'm I say eating. I don't start with the thing No, no, that's crazy. That's it. Start with Beethoven. All right, start. Let's say you're having trouble smoking All right. But you like dessert. Okay, I'll tell you not to eat dessert. All right? That's your business. But I want to tell you, Here goes. You say they're eating your dessert and That's for last, right? In all this. They leave it on your plate. What? Leave it on your plate. Why would I leave it on my plate? So you gain the ability to do so. That's why for the one moment of joy Come on. I just had 15 bites. The one moment of joy I can change your life. You learned to begin to apply your energy, your center of consciousness All right. To redirect a habit. And I to say against. Just like when I dig a new trench I'm not against the old trench. Well, Never fight. Always be constructive. Right? Just. I want to carve another path The strength that you gained by leaving that on your plate is the strength Someday is a strength after somebody criticized It's all the question of Are you centered? Well, not always, All right. And now there are these habits Good, fine them. But are they constructive? I don't mind autopilot Oh, right. Like this great trainer. Right. So that she's always taking you But you don't want to put on autopilot This is a mountain kind of thing. Is that so? Habits are part of your life. There are going to be patterns of energy Right. Make them reliable. They're very powerful things. They determine your entire life. You understand that you drive from here into town. On habit, you don't do a thing. Even though you go going, You're busy You stop with the red lasers off of that Start with the stop signs. Right? And you just do do everything. You steer. You don't even think about where All right? So you want to develop good habits. You want to develop habits They are your choice. We'll get into where your old habits So by leaving that last little thing other than it's the scales, At first If you I couldn't. Now come on, look at me. Look at me. You really say this to me? I tried doing. I couldn't. You couldn't What do you. What do you mean? I don't understand. What was stopping you? You. You didn't want to enough I told you, it is going to require energy to have it You have to want to put out that energy bad enough That makes sense to you. And I'm painting a picture of something It's called Hello, This is your house. You live in there. It belongs to you. If you don't have the ability you're going to be driving into walls. If you haven't noticed, All right. If you have the ability to drive, you'll So you leave it. And if you find you don't leave it. You sit down with yourself as to what is the benefit of that of overcoming the drive to eat it, of not eating it, and all of a sudden When you work out, you start It's worth it. It's no pain, no gain. And so you just start doing little things. I won't tell you all the things I looked at this. I said, I'm not no, I'm not going to continue my life All right? I moved out. The bill was dropped, everything. So until I get this together, though, he's a crazy little boy. But nevertheless, he would do I'm telling you now, do these things Like when he got in the shower, he'd Right before he left, he'd make it colder and stay in there. I totally cold. He just make it colder than he likes it. And just stay there I told you why. Because I'm the boss. You just the velop. You're right to do what you want. Everybody wants to do what they want, You're not doing what you want. You're doing what the habits make you do. If somebody says, I have the right But do you have the right day, you have the right to not drink You have the right to drink if you want. But I'm telling you right now, 98% of the people who drink Those aren't from alcoholics. I know about wine drinkers Just try and not. And you're going to see a major problem It's like I'm not telling you what to do. I'm telling you to tell you what to do, And not just give in to these habits that are not necessarily If they're taking where you want to That's wonderful. But you better test them their test your ability So a wise person catches on to this and develops a center of power, a core strength If I decide that I nucleosomes, This is how I used to put it. If I decide that this is going to happen with me so change places of the sky, Here was a thing as a master though Okay, looks like it. But I'm telling you, that's Not with somebody else, but with you. If you decide consciously. I'm aware as well. I do. And I decided to do this, Can I change what I decided? If you changed from a center of absolute you get some more clarity But if you change Oh, I didn't want to do it anyways. I was just kidding This is your life. I'll tell you what to do. I tell you what to do. There's a difference, right? You decide what you want to do. I'm telling you how to do it, So basically, you stop babying yourself. For one thing, under no conditions ever should you ever say if you want to and you want to be somewhat weak, but don't you ever say I used to tell a story. I'll get heavy. We'll get a little lighter right Now I went into maximum security prison. I used to go to UCI out there, And I had a discussion. It wasn't this intense, I mentioned that they have will You know, you decide similar type discussion and, and I get to things like, this is not the highest population You know, if you're in a were not the sample population. All right. So they were having fun. And I said, all right, Excuse me. The example I gave them was okay, Okay? And I said, All right, so quiet down there Quiet. Now, let's say that whatever you consider in your whole life, walked in here, walked in that door, took her clothes off, That one put a closed back on you. All right, All this giggling is going on. And when they stopped And the giggling stopped for a minute. I said I was being serious. Could you not look? And basically every single I know you want me to say, yes, But if I'm going to be honest with you, I know I would be. Mickey, I know your best say, I so I say you tell me you couldn't do it. They all said, I know. Honestly, I can't. I could. To which point I said, Right. Very good. Take a breath. Here is $1 million plus a pardon to your own for this is the front gate, And why could you not look? Oh, there was a rather drastic change with every single person in that room. Every single person that I look in, I look There's no interest in either you can You don't get to have it both ways. What does that teach you? It says it's not that you couldn't. That look The minute I put enough reward for not looking on the table, The same is the true with you. You have complete dominion, complete power over yourself. It's you, for God's sakes. All right. You were given willpower. You were given You have complete control over yourself. Complete, utter. The person who has the least control over has complete control of themself. That is what is true. You who's in there. The consciousness is and you have the ability to assert it any time you want, anywhere So the question is whether you can, It's whether you want to enough the habitual flow of the force Now, does everybody see that? So that's why I say you have to decide. It's a decision that you make, not the somebody else told You decided for the quality of my life, This is what I want to do. So then more than the pardon or the car, we're talking about happiness We're talking How can that not be worth it if you are in a relationship and is ruining your job And in a moment of clarity, you sit there There is no reason in the world old Go talk to a girl terribly, right? Especially if you're off it for a while. You've kind of broke the habit a lot. Why would you do that again? It's just a moment of weakness. It's just a moment beautiful power Right? The power of your will. This is your house, isn't it? Your house is your house. It's your dominion. You do what you want. So that's what it means to work with that's child's play compared All right. So you best be exercising now. What does it mean to work with internally? It means that more destructive, The smoking, more destructive, All right. Is what is going on inside of you is your mental patterns In fact, the reason you drink and emotional patterns, and your emotions became really nice, and how happy you are with your job You wouldn't smoke or drink. You're not nervous, you're not anxious, Why would you? Drinking is about changing your state. It is not about a nice thing. It is about negating a not nice thing. If you feel better when you drink, before you drank. Which one of you is going to have what Maslow called You're holding your baby Someone you love just came back from years And they're at your front door. Which one of you wish you were drunk out of your mind Nobody. Nobody. They want to be there. They want to experience it. They want to take it in your stand when you're not sharp, The reason you drink, the reason to do the reason you do all these things If you are okay inside, there's no issue. There's nothing. It's fine. But you're not okay inside. What does it mean to not be okay? And so it means my mind is bothering me. There I said it. All right. Your mind is bothering you. It is worrying, It is anxious. It is telling you is telling you you're no good, is telling Telling you you look funny, Telling you said something stupid. How could you said that? Oh, my God, I'm so embarrassed. It's telling you stuff like that. If you go to do something, it's telling You know, you're supposed to. Oh, my God, it's going to be terrible. This is not being nice to you. If you pay attention, you will see that if somebody else said them, to never seeing them again, But you would never befriend the person I did that the whole first chapters All right, wake people up pay attention to how someone inside of you It's not nice, is it? And so you wake up How your mind talks to you is a habit exactly the same as these external habits It is a pattern. There's no reason your mind is doing that. The zero. It's just a habit. So you have a visual thought patterns and they keep talking to you that way You, they, they talk like this. Nobody can really love me. I wouldn't love me And I just say for anybody And somebody says, I love you, No, you don't. No, no, I do. I know I do. I really do. How do you know? Because every time I'm in your presence, melting and my heart melts, And all of a sudden, it's a little bit And you think? Yes, Really? Really. Right here, all of a sudden It starts to form maybe a little bit all of a sudden in know mind starts going, What does he want from what they want That's right. Well, you don't have money. Yeah, Well, hello. And he goes right back to this. You've had patterns inside of you. Some of them said your childhood, you've been through situation in your life And during those difficult situations, there, wasn't there? Right. A lot of negative stuff. A lot of stuff became a habit. Obviously now isn't a good situation because it keeps carrying on inside your thought patterns or habits. They are not you thinking there it is not you who is deciding You are not choosing your thoughts. They are habitual. The patterns just keep. They're so habitual like the fish doesn't know is in water. It has water everywhere. You don't realize how many people I've that to start with, I love that somebody reads the whole book I don't even see what he's talking with Like he's talking about the voice. I had a voice in my stupid head, If you don't see it, It is the same thing with your regular Well, what I want it to be What? A career I want to be in this for. Because I always had trouble with you. Already went through medical school Right? What is this It just is a problem. It's a problem. And so you wake up That's all I want. I took you through the whole You want to work with it? I encourage you to. I would like to see you reach a point and said, If I say it's going to happen, Is that simple? I have developed the will, I have developed my core strength to where how strong the opposition Right. I have learned to work with it And there is no competition anymore. If I decide while this was going on, I'm guarantee And by the way, I left something off. Before I go inside, that your habitual patterns have, When you beat them and I mean beat them But when you beat them, Energy is neither created nor destroyed. It's transmuted is re channeled. Okay. The water that flowed down one ditch They were redirected. Imagine how much power is wasted I haven't got the thought yet. Just your physical habits, When you develop your center I'm telling you, It radiates. You feel it like people say when they work they feel the strength inside right? Where do you feel real strength inside? Because all that energy that used to go You gained it. It transmuted or transmuted, it got risen And so when you pull the energies up they don't go flying around these habitual Now you work inside, you come inside and you realize I got a problem. My thoughts are a problem. If you don't know that yet, Thoughts are a problem. I don't know. You all right? Your thoughts are a problem. Way worse than you're drinking your smoke. I told you they are the reason Because you can't handle yourself. Therefore, all the tension comes from. The anxiety comes from where the fear They are just habitual patterns inside They're stealing the joy of your life. You can't go out and do something You go plan your wedding Whatever, raising your wedding. Not even outside. It's inside. All right, I use it. You have. It's outside. Okay, What if it rains? If people want to come? Well, my God, they'll get their shoes wet. Oh, we picked those special shoes What are you doing? I'll tell you what you're doing. The reason I ruined your wedding, it's It's three months before your wedding, and you're ruining your wedding. You're You can't enjoy anything because that's the environment And so you live inside these habitual that are going on all the time And so you're living inside a negativity And then you do the silliest thing which is going outside to find a job or a person who will make it That's hilarious. You're in there doing to yourself outside of you I really don't like myself. I never have. And you know, I hope you can make me feel Why don't you fix the problem at the root? You cannot carry these negative thoughts going on inside your head. Eventually and expect to have a nice life. Can you even around you can't. I am telling you, just as I told you, if you want to stop smoking, stop and just withstand the difficulty because those energies will transmute. Now, the power that smoking had over you, everything inside yourself, that's It's not just about smoking. What you build it right Get this down. I'm I don't care what your mind's like You are capable of straightening that out. You are capable just like you can physically to where your mind is I don't teach you to stop your mind. I don't teach you to shut up your mind. I want you to have a nice life. I like you, right? You should be happy. This is a fun life. It's The planet Earth. You're sitting on a planet making yourself crazy from sleep. No reason. Stop it. It's just like, stop smoking. All right, so now you have these patterns. How do you redirect the patterns? Exactly If all of a sudden you're sitting there and you've noticed that three months ago you were excited to go to work. Now you failed a couple of things that I didn't give you the raise Somebody else got the wrath. All of a sudden. We're not having so much fun going to work I'll bet. I know why. Because when you drove to work before your mind would say the Oh, boy, This is neat. That was so exciting, what I did. Yes. I never did anything like that I like the person who's working with me. That's great. So it was saying it was fun. Now it says, I don't want to do I fail the last one. There's too much criticism. The person I'm working with that Oh my God, you saw what they did. That's what you might say to you. And you're wondering It has nothing to do with the job. It has to do with you So it is just like the eating Just like Are you willing to change those patterns first? Do you understand? You're capable of change Every one of you are capable of change. I'm from a meditative. I don't like that your will is Your center of will, is stronger than your emotions, Your will is stronger than everything. Your center of will comes directly It is your it's unbelievable. Your power is phenomenal inside. All right. So that's a starting position. Now, what is going on in You didn't do anything wrong. It's a habit. There is there habitual flows. You didn't do anything wrong. When things happened to you you suppressed them, you kept them inside. So now they're causing all your thought Psychology is absolutely right. How we got like that in there? Freud was right there. Right? If you had bad things happen to you and you couldn't handle them, they're going to keep bothering you. And by the time you store over the course of your life, every little thing, And there's all these negative thoughts, all these anxieties because you're afraid You took all this stuff You shoved it inside your mind And now it keeps the old roller, And that's what you hear And that's the truth. That's how long it takes you to explain Of course, his are different than yours. He had different experiences, You even do it with your good experiences. You met somebody when you were 12. You had a new relationship and they moved So that impression left inside of you that ever happened to you. Guess what you do with it now? It keeps coming back up Instead of experiencing You look for traits of that person. You're literally trying to recreate You're In other words, your thought patterns There. Call some scars, positive or negative, Even your positives. Some scars are ruining your life because they're not letting you experience Go to Hawaii and have a great time, because you've told them how great it is because you will be disappointed, because you will have a preconceived and what it would be like But it's raining and they're closed And next thing you know, because you tried to recreate it It ends up disappointing Ever notice? All right. So both the positive and the negative things that have happened to you, You stored them down inside. So now they come back up that make up your self-concept And they're not nice. It's not pleasant. So what do you do about it? Either you do what they tell you to do. Go away. I'm not comfortable here. And you leave, right? Oh, he's cute. See if you can get him attracted to you. I don't care. Come on, be honest. That's a lot in there. In it. All right. That's something else Yes or no? All right, so that result is And that's why you drink, smoke to do anything you can That's what everybody's basically doing, that distract them from themselves, exciting experiences, I am telling you, that I'm happy to say how to do it You are the highest experience The highest experience you've ever had inside of you all the time, You the highest man. The trouble is, you screwed it up And so now you're You're not even experiencing yourself. You're experiencing leftover garbage. That's why there has to be Really? Self-Realization. You are who you are. Yeah. Trouble is, you don't know it. You're busy being your thought patterns. You're busy being your problems. You don't know who you are, Well, the you who lives in there, the center of volition, the center Literally. Literally. When the Bible says someday, you don't know You have to realize that Christ said the kingdom It's right is within you. Hey, there you. Hey, that's spirituality. And when you come back and break, these I said, when you break the habits way. Do you see what happens mentally This whole transmutation of energy When you transmute those negative that is how much energy is inside of you Right? Then you have to try to have enough energy so you don't get stuck into it, Right? Imagine if none of that was happening. Wow. Let's play. Imagine. All right. Imagine if that wasn't happening into you instead of going down and arguing with itself Right. It just all goes up. And I'm telling you, Wave, wave of ecstasy All your chopra's open hearts That's what goes on inside of you. When you get rid of this garbage that's going on in there, So how do you work with the habit Exactly the same as you worked That's with your physical self But at least every day break some habits, play around There's a game. All right. That's what you're going to do, Break a habit, make a new one. I used to sit there, say, Because they're going to be habits, Anything you do if you notice that you just come home So what happens next day? The ice cream is not it? It's is a natural thing. It's just we are beings of habit, right? I'm not telling you to not be a being, the center of your core and the ability to break them that I don't going to do this anymore. That's it's not being done anymore. They'll try this thing. Try that. Okay. So I love wouldn't Now you start working with your thoughts. How do you do that? You pick things telling Don't start I am sitting there driving behind somebody that I'm not comfortable with, either too slow or too fast, And I'm watching everything and get Why are you doing that? Why are you doing it? What benefit is doing that you like? The anxiety, you like the knots, the discomfort, You want to you can be comfortable driving You have fun. You do not have to do that Do you know more than you have to smoke? No. When you have to drink, you Don't say, Oh, I've always been that way. So it is your life And I'm telling you, it matters a lot. If you let that go on, then you're going to let that somebody five after ten. You have just created hell for yourself Where are they? What happened Maybe they in an accident. Well, maybe they're hurt me. Like goes for five or 10 minutes You might drive you crazy. Ask me, what benefit was that? Who did that do any good to? None. I'm telling you, That's your house. That's a meaningless, There are meaningless, destructive You go on a date with somebody, right? You have a good time. Good will. That nice. Hope you enjoyed it. Will they call again, or should I ask you? I don't know. Imagine, like me. I like you. Oh, my God. They're going to ruin your date Just sit there and drive yourself crazy. No one's ever done that right. I am telling you, This is what determines You can't have a nice life If you are cutting your arms every 5 minutes, You can't be healthy, to understand that no matter That's what you're doing inside. You're causing trouble for yourself, insecurity, jealousy, fears, angers, you're developing inside your mind So you start with the low you do a cost benefit analysis. Nice clear business stuff, cost What is the benefit of these thoughts? What is the cost of these thoughts? And I'm telling you a categorical low hanging fruit, that That's what getting yourself upset in front of you when you can't pass them That's what getting yourself that comes five, So there are lots of those things that all they are is destructive. Work with them and that now we're into spirituality, now we're into yoga, now we're into what All right, Work with them. If I'm driving behind somebody crazy about it, About how they're driving. No, about what my mind is doing. There are so many things you can do. I was going to get into it. Right. Your business. Here's one thing. What do you mean? While you are there, causing yourself your breath is going in and out. Watch it instead of watching your mind. Don't fight with your mind. Never fight with your mind. Okay? Just watch your breath there. You're taking your awareness of being your and your aiming it at something You will notice, miraculously, Now, why, if you're stirring water, you know, heavenly. It's not straight. It's a miracle. It quiets down. It's unbelievable. It's the same thing with your mind What I'm going to do about this you're in there, thrash around, instead, you watch your breath. Your mind will quiet down Same thing with the phone call. You watch your breath. You can do a mantra. You can do what I do. I teach the highest technique to you. I got a letter today and this lady just said and she started actually practicing and her tummy and rest, Every single time the mind started wrong. And she just said, I have no words. My entire life changed. Entire life changed. Oh, it's like I have a whole new life now is going on inside of me. That's what I teach. He doesn't teach techniques, When it starts making noise and you notice 100%. Relax. What do you mean, relax, relax, Relax Relax your tummy, relax around your heart. Just keep relaxing, relaxing. And if you feel that it keeps going you'll notice that it's not in you. You're the one is relaxing. It's happening outside of you. It's happening somewhere over there. You're saying that the anxiety, Just relax and lean away That will change your entire life, period. That is the act of will If you do not involve yourself in it, its energy will transmute to you. If you can remain calm, centered, I don't want to give in to this. I'm just going to relax behind it. It will keep pulling at you You will, when you want. Right? It will stop doing what it used to do. You'll get into the habit of enjoying So now you can watch your breath. All right. You will sit there and make I used to make a rule for myself. If somebody doesn't call for five It could be anything. I'm not going to think about because it could be anything if he thinks he needs to or whatever and he maybe he needs to call or check Right. But during those 15 minutes, Right? He not saying, this is and you don't get to take it away. I'm going to relax and release. Do whatever I need to do. You understand that? It's just fun. I want it to be a game. It's a game. It is my kingdom. I get to decide what I just. It doesn't just ruin itself on its own Okay? If you will work with these low just as you develop your power, your center with your physical being right, that power When you do this, you will find that the energies and when you're able to work you're going to find out you have a heart. You always knew you had one, but only when What's bothering me? Your heart's always bothering you, And you'll relax behind your mind there's a lot of vibrations They're very reactive, very sensitive. What I do about that, They're scared. They get scared a lot. They get scared I mean, nothing. Like it just gets in fact, eventually It's always scared. It's just scared. All right. It got scared, right? Like a little scared animal. That's because all of these different and you shoved them down there And now what's down there is fear. And so you feel a lot of fear. Well, what do I do Not 100%. They all work together. Once your will outside and you start working, I just thought I was a low hanging fruit. My God, if it's 100% cost a 0% benefit, Just relax through it. Then you don't notice And if you were ever aware of And I become aware of your heart. There's nothing to do about your heart It's sick. Energy is broken. Energy. Just relax behind it. Say, okay, I understand. I'm fine. I'm always fine. Just relax and release And when all the hard energies you will become, as we call, established There will be nothing ever that will ever pull you no matter what happens to you or what no matter what anything does, you're You're clear, you centered, you're capable and carrying them through. You're a great being. You are your own being. And you've conquered risen above The humanness, right? And that's the beginning All you've done Wait to see what That's another talk within my philosophy, This time I really say if you see it But you has nothing to do. Your husband is not doing your job They're all things to experiment You have trouble with your finances. I want you to be strong enough to be able to have bad finances You have trouble with your relationship. Want to be strong enough and you can work as the relationship Maybe it ends, maybe it doesn't. But I want you to work with yourself you find yourself in so you can learn how to rise you find yourself in. Work on these things. Jai Guru Dev