We live in an age where speed is a virtue: You're hungry? Your smartphone allows you to order food from in no time. You want to be entertained? Today's streaming services bring the latest room with the push of a button. We can communicate with people directly worldwide we are, as long as we've got an internet Thanks to dating apps, we also have access mates whenever we use our smartphones. Whatever we want, we want it quickly because, to waste any of it. The ability to speed up many of life's processes and get more done in a shorter amount of time. We can be more productive, enjoy a larger more people, and travel to more destinations But does doing more in less time equal better, Is a fast-paced life a happier life? A growing group of people believes that we're This slower approach to life is known as 'slow As a counter-movement, 'slow living' opposes in a short time, as living at high speed means superficially, and with a lack of appreciation So, instead, 'slow living' encourages time to digest it. 'Slow living,' therefore, includes simplifying When we try to define 'slow living' theoretically interpretations and ways to live more slowly. So it seems that 'slow living' is largely However, values like simplicity, balance, be recurring ingredients among expressions But aside from the lifestyle practices, is living?' The idea of slowing down life isn't new. For example, thinkers like Henry David Thoreau a slow pace. This video explores not just the 'slow living' some philosophical reflections that support The ability to speed up certain aspects of in one lifetime sounds like an enrichment; Also, by doing things faster, we can live in less time. But this increased pace has downsides, as significantly diminish their quality. When we're constantly in a rush, we may with the activities we're participating We may rush through meals, conversations, them, making them feel less enjoyable or fulfilling. Also, when we're always in a hurry, we may For example, suppose we're rushing through In that case, we may not take the time to the accompanying descriptions, which can diminish as a whole. Living life at a fast pace can also lead to if we're constantly trying to fit in as And when we're always on the go, we may to process our experiences, making them feel So, we may think that we've experienced superficially and, often, hardly paid attention Paying less attention can negatively impact For example, when constantly rushing around or experiences, we may miss out on moments We may not take the time to appreciate the such as spending time with loved ones, enjoying or simply reflecting on past experiences that Going fast comes with a price: it can harm When we're constantly on the go and not may feel burnt out, anxious, or depressed. Moreover, we may be so focused on achieving the things that truly bring us happiness and to obtain. In a world that values productivity and hustle may seem counterintuitive. But it could dissolve the stress and chaos feelings described as contentment, joy, and So, what did the past philosophers say about The ancient greek philosopher Epicurus preached with little rather than the endless chase His philosophy shows that the things we need and tranquility, are easy to come by. For Epicurus, the best pleasure is static: satisfied, of no longer being in need or want. Moving pleasure, however, is fleeting and food, and intercourse. Epicurus prioritizing static pleasures over of 'slow living' because it emphasizes and mindful approach to life: in this case, Individuals can achieve a greater sense of focusing on cultivating long-term, stable than constantly seeking temporary thrills The simpler our pleasures are, the easier If we can easily satisfy our desires, we'll to sit back, relax, and simply enjoy the contentment So, we could say that engagement in 'static as experiencing static pleasure requires us Static pleasure is generally enjoyed slowly; busy chasing the next pleasure again? The 19th-century American philosopher Henry his experience of living a simple life near He emphasized the importance of slowing down He believed that society's fast-paced lifestyle simplify our lives to truly experience happiness. I quote: "I went to the woods because I wished to facts of life, and see if I could not learn to die, discover that I had not lived." End quote. Thoreau believed that by slowing down and in tune with nature and our own inner selves. And so, he encouraged people to disconnect as technology and consumerism, and instead engaging in meaningful work, spending time with others. The ancient Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu also living in harmony with nature. In the Tao Te Ching, he famously is accomplished. Accomplishment doesn't require speed. Just take a look at nature. Natural processes like growing plants or the results don't lie. If we force things, however, trying to speed get in trouble, according to the Taoist point Lao Tzu believed that by living in accordance lives would be more peaceful and effortless. The concept of 'Wu Wei' (translated as not to force things and, in many cases, to So, slowing down, the Taoists see as a means might be doing when we're rushing. In both Lao Tzu's teachings and the 'slow finding balance and harmony in one's life pushing oneself to the brink of exhaustion. The 19th-century philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer to human well-being. In his essay "The Wisdom of Life," he and desires, which makes us miserable. He wrote: The most important of all for happiness is are unnecessary to our existence; and the that mark our existence, the rapid alternation stimulation that results from our complex For it is to these that we owe that fevered of the manifold illusions we mistake for happiness. End quote. In this passage, Schopenhauer suggests that nature prevents us from experiencing true mistake for happiness, like wealth and status. He argued that we should strive to simplify and sources of stress. Thus, 'slow living' aligns with Schopenhauer's getting rid of the "hurry and bustle," and contentment. Another example from Schopenhauer's philosophy is his distinction between two kinds of pleasure: of the intellect. He considered the pleasures of the will of of our desires and needs, such as hunger and Pleasures like these are fleeting and ultimately happiness and contentment. However, the pleasures of the intellect come Schopenhauer believed these pleasures are more sustainable and provide a sense of lasting Intellectual pleasures are also more accessible relatively cheap and don't depend on external Intellectual pleasures are, by nature, 'slow.' Then there's Marcus Aurelius, the Stoic himself straightforward advice we can use I quote: If you seek tranquillity, do less. Or (more accurately) do what's essential and in the requisite way. Which brings a double satisfaction: to do Because most of what we say and do is not If you can eliminate it, you'll have more Ask yourself at every moment, "Is this necessary?" End quote. Regarding 'slow living,' we could use with the essentials. Doing too many things at once generates stress. By doing less, on the other hand, we can pay do and work on them more slowly and precisely. As Marcus Aurelius stated, we'll have "more ingredients of 'slow living.' So, how do we put 'slow living' into practice? Is it a matter of making our social circles us to overwork, and appreciating the small What else can we do to slow down and enjoy There are countless ways to apply the idea explore a couple of practical examples. The first one is to simplify one's schedule. Our lives can become overly busy and complicated, To slow down, you can simplify your schedule align with your priorities, taking breaks tranquility. Unplugging from technology is another way Even though 'slow living' doesn't reject us to approach them mindfully. Technology can be a significant source of To slow down and be more present, we could meals, and set aside time for quiet reflection. Another practical way of 'slow living' Mindfulness is the practice of being fully We can cultivate mindfulness through activities Aligning with Taoist philosophy, connecting down, and it helps us to feel more grounded Spending time in nature is proven to reduce The Japanese philosophy of Wabi-Sabi, which a practice of 'forest bathing,' during a forest walk. Instead of being goal-oriented, going from of nature and open ourselves up to its healing Even though living life in the fast lane might the key to happiness. Slowing down can be a rewarding experience. Instead of getting more quickly and superficially, and in the present. Thank you for watching.