SIMON SINGH: Great. Thank you very much for So this is the And Their Mathematical Secrets.&quot; I've been working on started writing to the writers And for the last I've been thinking and talking about this book. And whenever I talk and I say to people there's in &quot;The Simpsons,&quot; people are And what I'm trying I'm trying to explain are lots of writers on There are lots of who studied mathematics to master's level, to PhD level. Now they're no longer they're now writers, but And the way they is by putting little into the series-- often What sort of thing Well, for example, called, &quot;Marge + Homer The story here is that is married to Tabitha Vixx. And Tabitha Vixx and Their marriage is in trouble. They go and talk and Homer and Marge And by the end of the episode But the very finale of proclaims her love to Buck. But at the end of the on the Jumbo-Vision screen you see is this question up And it asks the crowd, what's Is it 8191, is it or is there no way to tell? OK. And nobody ever noticed paying attention to Tabitha. Nobody ever noticed But each one of these for a very special reason. It's there because each is mathematically significant. So for example, you take 8191 is a prime number. Some of you may But it's not just it's a Mersenne prime number. So Mersenne prime numbers They're of the form 2 to where p is also a prime number. So in this case, if you 2 to the power of 13 So somebody put in that a plausible number But it's also a Mersenne number. And Mersenne primes I think the ten we know are all Mersenne primes. So somebody put some And the next number is the same. The next number is 8128. 8128 is a very special number. It's what's known and a perfect number is the divisors is of the number So the simplest example is 6. 1, 2, and 3 divide into 6, Next perfect number is 28 divide into 28 and You might think 6 and 28, you getting a couple But the third perfect And the fourth perfect And they get fewer I think Rene Descartes like perfect men, are very rare. And they're rare, so they get to be Third number, this is a number a type of number I started writing this book. 8208, what's special about and so what you do is you raise Four digits, so you raise each 8 to the power 4 plus 0 to the power Sorry, let me say that again. 8 to the power 4 plus 2 to the plus 8 to the power 4. Add those together and So the number regenerates It's kind of in love it's called a And again these There's less than a hundred And the biggest one is that. I think it's about And you might want to have because I know the kind of have a narcissistic number They're rare, they're special, They get to have a special So this is the kind of really niche mathematical within an episode for I had to mention this one. The cinema, the movie is called the Springfield And I guess this is part of So I'll tell it to you anyway. The googol, of course. Again, you have to the googolplex appeared was back in the early 1990s, existed. So nowadays people about what a googol what a googolplex But when this first nobody had heard of a googol. Nobody had heard And so it was a really who were watching. The name googol was invented by The mathematician And he was going for a And he said, okay-- a million's 0's, a trillion's got 12 0's. What do we call a And his nephew said why And that's where the A googol is a number And then the uncle sounds like a good number. What about a googolplex? What would a googolplex be? And the nephew and he said, OK, that's easy. A googolplex is 1 that your arm gets tired. Now that's not very so the uncle said, OK, well a A googolplex is 10 to So again, this is a really in &quot;The Simpsons.&quot; Now, who's putting Who's making these references? Well, that particular reference here. In the back row, is a chap called Mike Reiss. I say probably Mike process on &quot;The Simpsons&quot; and we're going and so it's hard to And people are very generous But it was probably I met the &quot;Simpsons&quot; and I chatted to all of them. And I met Mike. And Mike's interest in maths When he was in the high school he was very strong. He competed against competed at state level. He was a very bright, a He was also a very comedy, loved comedy writing. So even when he was younger I think, 11 or 12, he told me and he was waiting and he was reading through So, not &quot;The New Yorker,&quot; but was looking at the they have the cartoon And he was looking at the the dentist came back I see you're looking at the I enter that I always manage to think And Mike said, yes, so do I. And he was competing against and winning this competition. So he had this talent for Somebody else who was the chap who told Mike who came up with Al Jean, again this is another in the mathematics team. There he is in the Al Jean, another very In fact he was so bright that he was put into for elite mathematicians. This was going back to, And the idea was America with the Russian elite And so people like Al Jean were courses. And he was such a bright that he went off to Harvard when he was just 16 years old. So these are really Al and Mike met at they went into comedy writing. They joined &quot;The on that very first and even in that very first you get mathematical references. But the interesting looking at &quot;The Simpsons,&quot; and you spot a mathematical you'll be more eagle-eyed and But if you find a it could be that the is not necessarily Let me explain how that happens. This is an episode Now, you may remember this one. Marge is accused of theft and she's put on trial, and And Lionel Hutz, the attorney, and saying to him, you've Why should we trust Why should we trust You've got a terrible memory. And Apu responds by saying, no In fact my memory is can recite pi to and the last digit is 1. So he could have said anything. He could've said I can remember directory. But he says pi. And he talks about Now, there are a couple behind the scenes of that I want to explain to you. First of all, why 40,000 digits? Why was Apu claiming Well that was the world record So it was a genuine and Apu claimed to Sure enough, the OK, can't get that wrong. In fact, you can't if the writing team They contacted a guy at the time. And David Bailey was a And he'd developed something When I was at told that if you the fifth digit of pi, the first, second, If you want to calculate you've got to calculate The great thing with is that it's like a tap. A spigot is a tap will drip whichever So if you want the millionth you just adjust the tap, and drips out. And that's what David And he could've just place, except the works in hexadecimal, very friendly for a TV audience. So instead of dripping the he sent them all 40,000 digits go figure out for themselves. But the other thing I wanted is that this is one wasn't written by It was actually written It was written by Josh And neither of them So the question is, why are into their episodes as well? And the way this happened and he said that He and Bill didn't What had happened was that to write, they went away and they wrote the of the story, the They put in the key jokes. And then they bring it back to And the rest of the identify the weaker jokes help make some of the And it's at that stage there will almost certainly And that's the stage at which into a script that otherwise So in this case said-- Josh dug this the original script says to Apu, &quot;So, Mr. if that is your real name, have And Apu says, &quot;No. In India I was I featured in over 400 films, Memory.'&quot; So nothing to do with pi. But you can imagine, the mathematicians an opportunity to get some But it's also an opportunity Because you may or that Apu is also If you piece together from different episodes, And Apu studied at Caltech. He went to Caltech-- Institute of Technology, Institute of Technology. And then after graduating, and he studied for a from Professor Frink. And he studied at the for Technology, which has a as you've already spotted. So you get the because it fits in and you can have a It's easy to think that is going to be going to be linked it's going to be linked mathematically-minded But you find that Homer and often exhibit, or get involved So, for example, called &quot;The Wizard of where Homer tries to Again, it's kind of you've got to really look there's a blackboard. And on the blackboard a reference to the It's a science equation. That's an equation that relates mass h 0. And if you work that that predicts a is about double the actual But that's not bad. This was happening 15 was even discovered. In terms of mathematics, down here about the reshaping But you have to nibble at But the one that really is the episode, I got me interested in all of this This equation here-- a plus another number equals another number Now that caught my eye that I wrote in the UK was In the US, it was called And it's all about this who was a French mathematician. Very, very quickly I'll He was studying an ancient the Arithmetica by Diophantus. And Diophantus that there are lots of solutions x squared plus y squared 3 squared plus 4 squared 5 squared plus 12 squared There are lots of There are an infinite number But Fermat wondered what the power to something So for example, x to the power equals z to the power of 3, Can you find any solutions Now, Pierre de Fermat could prove, without that there were no solutions. He wrote in the &quot;I have a truly marvelous I have a demonstrationum But this margin is too Hanc marginis And then he dropped dead. I Or a few years People found the Fermat says he can prove these But he doesn't tell And for 350 years, everybody Eventually a chap rediscovers the proof. And we now know for a fact have any solutions. So you will never find a equalling a 12 power. And yet that's what And if you check that, you check it on your phone So Homer is defying he's defying Pierre has found a solution Now why does it seem to work? Well if you calculate it's what's called a because the actual It's not 4472, but So it's called a It's a solution It's a solution that will But if you've got a with a proper long that it's a near-miss error. So again this is a lovely in this case, David to the trouble of putting a little gag, a little reference will spot, will be annoyed by, So it's just a prank. It's just a prank for And there's tons-- I'll just see I mean there is tons more. There's another reference in &quot;Tree House of Horror also has references to has references to p versus np, It has references to has references to It has stuff in ASCII. There's so much that you could write a whole So rather than go on about I did want to talk about is the sister series and it has just as much The story here is Fox could see that &quot;The and they asked Matt Groening He came up with Futurama. He worked with David X. And David is one of of the series, worked And he's a I think he studied then did computer in computer science at Berkeley. And has then written And he loves mathematics. He's put mathematics and he's going to into &quot;Futurama&quot; as well. And he was also keen to to join the &quot;Futurama&quot; It was quite important from &quot;The Simpsons,&quot; so People like Ken Keeler, who has People like Jeff a professor at Yale University. So you had new mathematicians working with David X. Cohen to going to have tons This is a picture of Ken Keeler. It's not the greatest But it's of great because this relates &quot;The Prisoner of Benda,&quot; where a mind-switching machine. And everybody starts switching And at the end of gets bored and wants to get But the mind-switching machine, they cannot swap back. So the question is this-- given any amount is there a way to guarantee to their original minds? And Ken Keeler developed And he's very doesn't think it's a great But it's an interesting, And this is him scribbling in the Futurama why it's of great But he was able to of the size of the of the number of switching, if into the room, they provide for everybody else to So, and I just wanted because this is the only example of a writer creating a to complete a plot. So that's the extent that goes on in &quot;Futurama.&quot; I'll just give you one which is the number 1729. 1729 crops up in &quot;Futurama.&quot; It crops up as the hull registry It crops up also as Bender the alcoholic robot. It crops up in &quot;The as one of the universities So 1729 keeps cropping up. If it was just the hull registry But the fact it means that it must have some given the fact we have Ken and Jeff Westbrook And one reason why is that it's called And Harshad numbers If you take the digits they come to 19. And 19 divides into 1729. And that's all it has to What's particularly if you reverse 19, you get Yeah. That always gets an ooh, that So it's a very special but in fact there that exhibit this property. So it's special but to justify being cited so And the real reason why is because of this This is Srinivasa the most talented mathematician of He grew up in southern India, I think his three siblings He suffered from His family just about managed He couldn't get to university, but still he would by going to the library. And he'd pick out books within them. And pretty soon he the mathematics was creating new And eventually he of these, about 120 And nobody could understand And so he sent them to in Cambridge, England. And they arrived And Hardy was blown away. He couldn't believe what from an unknown mathematician And his immediate Ramanujan to come to Cambridge. And GH Hardy was a He's credited with galvanizing at a time when English compared to France and Germany. So he really was spearheading And yet, he said, if there's done in my life, it was to Because when he came to His genius was recognized. He became a Fellow of the Royal Fellows of the Royal Society. He became the first a Fellow of Trinity And his mathematical Sadly, however, physically, The cold weather He was a strict vegetarian, so the diet didn't He came down with And he went back in his 30s, tragically young. But just before we went back he was in a nursing home And Hardy went to visit him. And Hardy took a train took a taxi from the went into the hospital, And, struggling to perhaps, Ramanujan the name of the And Hardy said it wasn't very And Ramanujan said, 1729? No, that is a really It's an interesting number number that's the sum of two Let me just unpack that. 1729 is 10 cubed plus 9 cubed. Now most numbers aren't so that's interesting. 1729 is also the sum of Very few numbers are in two different ways. And this is the is the sum of two cubes And Ramanujan just knew that. He just plucked He had a natural He used to say that at one of the Hindu goddesses on his tongue that would somehow And he could just pluck And because it was one that Ramanujan had before and before he died, has gone down in history. And 1729 has gone down And that's why it keeps on It's Ken Keeler's way this great genius, Ramanujan. And it's kind of that Ramanujan, some 100 years with Hardy is in this sci-fi animated It doesn't just stop there, that number's the the sum of two cubes You can then ask, well one that's a sum of two cubes And you end up with something extraordinary, or something. But that number also It's called a taxicab and it appears as a So I'm going to do have 10 minutes, if people have questions. I've skipped over lot have explained things So if people have questions, I I'm very happy to try and AUDIENCE: Does this work? Yeah. Hey, awesome seeing you here. It's actually really awesome, before, on Numberphile-- SIMON SINGH: Oh, great! AUDIENCE: --talking So the question was, this and can we look more of this in a more popular SIMON SINGH: Oh, well, yeah. I hope so. The book's been published in And in the UK, the mainstream radio shows have the tabloid press There's something in the So what's really nice is, and not many people Not many people may But I think it'll through all these other media. And I think the writers I called the book &quot;The Secrets,&quot; but it's The writers have never They've just put people might not And I think they're really noticing this. I think one of the this is because they think teenagers and how they And maybe it was ways to see other people And yet if you're and you see &quot;The notice that there's a and you think, hang on, must love mathematics And maybe it will about their love of mathematics. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Thanks. AUDIENCE: Hi. I had a two part question. The first part is, I assume has a lot of support and he gives them a And then the second part is, why the same thing? Seeing how popular SIMON SINGH: Yes, I that Matt Groening, gave writers the their particular interests. So, again from that very, I call it the first Bart's having lunch and opens a lunch box, and it's But if you look carefully, it's Anatoly Karpov was world chess Not many people would He was also a mathematician-- He also is responsible for stamp from the Belgian Congo. Not many people So that kind of niche know-- these references must not and they must not get And so with the as I'm fairly sure Mike somebody around said, yeah who's Nobody's heard of And I think Mike Reiss maybe not many but how funny can you So you haven't lost anything, And then, why &quot;The &quot;Futurama&quot;-- I have a mathematicians are And there are lots of them, But we have people in the people like Dara O Briain. Tom Lehrer, the finest musical There is a link between and I talk about But then I think but why have you all And there are a couple But I think the most interesting you do mathematics-- and between mathematics, and And maybe with computer That in mathematics whatever you write down happens. Whatever line of logic you write flows. You are in complete control As a mathematician and You are in control. Whereas science is messy, and the weather gets don't have enough statistics. So maths is pure is impure and imperfect. Animation is pure and perfect. What you write in your What you draw on your storyboard Whereas with live action dealing with the weather, you're dealing with So he drew the his line was, he said that medium. So maybe that explains why. Yeah AUDIENCE: Sorry to This is not a question, I wanted to take the opportunity with the protecting the right to present their opinions. The Defamation Act this year, So thank you. SIMON SINGH: Thank Just a bit of background But I mean, people like as a kind of land of justice But we still actually really quite harsh libel laws. People from all over the to sue for libel. It was the libel You'd end up with being sued by Icelandic banks. Ukrainian oligarchs suing All in London. Ridiculous. Saudi billionaire sued a And it got so bad that brought in a law that said, you get sued in London, Because we have for English law And that was really helped us begin to I got sued for libel, as were science writers, And people just thought that you can't write about sued for libel. It was ridiculous. In science, the in science, and is through robust Anyway it took a few years, have a new defamation which is much more reasonable. And that will become law, or two. And what was really it was very much a Because bloggers were getting threatened with libel. Local newspapers, We have an organization in parents share their experiences. They were getting It was ridiculous. The only problem left, in the next week or two, Because Northern Ireland still And that could become the new So you might find yourself if you say something which But thank you very AUDIENCE: That guy kind of Thanks for coming and I read &quot;The Code Book&quot; twice. Great book. But I think the most in my humble opinion, if I was king of the world, And I'm curious to active in the science-based Do you do anything, are there SIMON SINGH: Yeah, thank you So my backgrounds in physics. That's what I study, Maths is kind of the same kind I love writing about that. But I ended up writing this because-- couple of reasons. One was, I had going on their gap years. Before going to college, And they would use homeopathy against malaria. And I couldn't so I asked a young student And she said, I don't like Can you give me something And 10 out of 10 use these sugar pills. And her story was to go to West on a truck tour, where there will kill you within three days. And there are examples of and who came back to Europe failure because So I was shocked that were being taken So I sat down with a professor in fact. But a very rigorous we call evidence-based And so he's been examining for the last 10 years. And the alternative Because sometimes he finds and he'll say that, because But often he'll find which aren't backed might even be dangerous. So the alternative He was the world's of complementary said, if you're a professor you should be championing And he says, well, look, if I I wouldn't be It's not how it works. So he and I, we looked at all the different And one or two of them and most of them don't. Some of them are It was after writing that in a newspaper that that's And I still occasionally write and support one are involved in challenging So for example, right now in Britain called &quot;What and you can buy it you can buy it at And it essentially says that that they're not telling you. And we're going to tell And it's just full of clap And people believe what's in it. So we're currently and again, I'm very So if supermarkets want I can't stop them. And I shouldn't be able But I want these supermarkets So that they're aware have a policy of and supporting their proper information, want to be stocking That's their choice. But it's one that I would So I'm still involved with and those kind of issues. So yes. Thank you very, very much. If people do have I'm going to be here So please do come and say hello. And thank you very Thank you.