Today we're trying Shake Let's talk about that. ((Intro Music)) Good Mythical Morning! You probably know by now, We've been known to dabble It's a good burger, and of that than to taste from around the world. Yes, Shake Shack is Yes it is, Link. - I can think. I can think of no what you were asking. I was asking that. It's time These International Shake ((Music)) - [Stevie] Okay. Shack snackers. You're gonna be tasting an dish and throwing your darts think it came from and Chase, The Shake It Cartographer is you are to the correct answer. - [Rhett] He's really shaking it. I saw you wearing stuff and I And now what I'm finding out Yeah. Like. Those are Those, like, Saved by me how that's shaking. While continue Cause I'm shaking, you know? - [Rhett] Yeah, yeah. You don't have to tell me. I'm just watching. Baby, Shake Shack It's like that song. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - [Chase] Something to jazz up your day. You ever heard that? Give you something to rave about. - [Stevie] Okay, the loser today, who I'm the winner. - [Stevie] Will get a big Come on, guys. - [Stevie] So, you don't want to lose The last five times. It's alright, man. - [Stevie] So, you'll have an advantage of your choosing, as for Rhett that you can Good lord. What? Okay. Advantage and disadvantage? Okay. That's what we do now, yeah. We're trying to get Well, it seems that we here, and look at that. There's like, what is that? I gotta suck that up I can't even tell you, man. I don't know what I just had. It's kind of good, though. - [Link] It's angular boba. It's boba trapezoidal, I'm trying to get Oh, it's cubed. I got one into my hand. Look at that. See? What I said. It's angular, gelatinous. It's very tasty. Tasty. Okay, could of died. Could of died. Then you'd feel bad I haven't taunted you. For losing 5 times in a row. But I am going first. I don't need to win often, win, I win big, you know? Right, exactly, that's What is his, that he can employ? - [Stevie] Link, would you like me and Rhett right now? It's your choice. I'm gonna give him No. That's if I lose. I don't want your sharts, man. - [Stevie] The disadvantage you can on my shoulder, which is put your head on Rhett's Okay. Yeah, that won't Alright. So, you can do that now. I'm not gonna do it yet. Boba, you know, eastern part of our map. It has made it here, but hasn't made it here is you just talked about. Never seen that. That is fun. So, Chase, are you gonna - [Chase] Oh yeah, but I'm gonna I'm getting into it, sorry. So I think that Thailand this type of thing, right? I think it could be several but I'm going for Thailand. Thailand. - [Rhett] Oh! A little bit low, Well, Thailand I am feeling the &quot;peens&quot; Oh man, you're I mean, you could to Thailand than that. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. For the record, I I think it's In Thailand! Oh gosh. I wonder, I wonder Yeah. That was interesting. - [Stevie] You just had a Vanilla ice cream blended milk on top of pandan jelly. Both mango sticky rice and desserts in this shake's You're right, it wasn't boba, Pandan jelly. - [Stevie] They're jellies. It's very nice. Rhett, you had 8, and Link, 17. Oh, God. ((Music)) Now, we're talking. - Can I? Cut our burger? Yeah, yeah, yeah, Oh. Oh, it's toasty bun. Now I wouldn't do that You know, I wouldn't You know, it's like when you don't want to cut it in half. You wanna start on the sides because that's the best part. Now this one's got. There's a lot going on here, Link. Oh, it's so juicy. - [Link] Oh my goodness. So. That's a pickle? It looks like relish, Like, I wonder. It's a salsa. Is it hot? - [Rhett] Oh, that's spicy. Oh, goodness. Oh, I like that. Man! You got to warn a man. I got a little nervous I can't even taste the It's hot. I'm gonna go. Oh, good gracious. I'm ready for a second bite. I like that. Oh, that feels good. Alright, you're winning. You gotta go first. And I gotta get more Did they decide to Did they put Chile on the maybe we would be drawn to Because of this spicy. And also, is this something U.S. of A, like a special They all take all Could be, cause. In this quadrant of Japan, South Korea, Philippines, I'm taking a big, big this is not smart because countries over there. It would not be smart at all But I don't taste any I'm not going to U.S. And I'm not going Because I like you It could happen, but I type of pepper it was. Like a South American What makes you say that? Cause it's, it's just green doesn't taste, it doesn't something that can make its So, that's why I'm It's just not the type with, Asian cuisine. Well, the door is open, Link. I know the door is open, What door is it? It's the Chile door. But do I, I need to hedge in terms of my location. Okay. So, let's see, instead of I'm gonna go to the right. And I went, see, Spain is my answer now. Okay, let's see. It might be Spain. Oh, gosh. - [Stevie] You just had Benny's Nacho topped with queso, Shack Ranch Doritos, scallions, and Serrano. - [Stevie] This burger was offered as musical artist Benny Blanco, Shack stores in Los Angeles. Los Angeles is - [Stevie] The U.S. of A. Hey, you were actually I was right about the It's so good. Rhett, you had 10. Link, 21. Alright. I got lucky, actually. ((Music)) Hey, y'all. We have created a daily Good Mythical Morning that gives predictions and answer trivia It's a freaking app game Freaking. That is such a Oh. And I bet it has a It does. I bet it's called It is called that. I'm so excited about this. I want you to experience it. And it's completely free on It's also free on Yeah, no matter There are special prizes so you gotta, you know, You gotta play every So why don't you just We don't have to pause. And go and download app and then play it. Yeah! Trivia related to the episode. Predictions about It's gonna be great. Okay, this is, a dessert, - [Rhett] There are so many things going on. They have custard. So this thing here. We got purple cake, we got ice cream. We have like a slab Let me try that first. That's a bit, This? - [Link] Yeah. Why is that you shaking? I don't. - [Chase] I think step aerobics is like Let the man shake! - [Chase] I'm not that good When you're really good at Hey, when a man's shaking The, the gelatinous know exactly what that is. The consistency of this is nuts! And then, purple, There's some gummy stuff. You slowing down ((Laughing)) There's like little clear Let me try those. They're not caviar. They do look like I tasted them. Okay. Alright. It's all over the place. Shaking, man, I'm still up. You're still up. Link, you have a. I think you Okay. So I am going to gently rest Okay. Let me see how that feels. I don't want you Where are you going? I am going to South Korea. - [Link] Okay. I was recently in, I was Can you hear me? Yes. You need to get closer? I was recently in Koreatown is it ube ice cream? Purple. I see the purple. I think Korea. Okay. Alright. Let me see how this Oh, you gonna hit me? Don't hit me in the face, now. This is not ((Laughing)) I tried my hardest. Did I, did I alter you any? Yeah, quite a bit. Because I wasn't - [Link] You went a little low. - [Rhett] Went a little bit low. Okay. Maybe if you put your head on Like my aim has Oh, it hurt my chin a Well, at least you You said it, man. That's right. I mean, it's gotta be Korea. - [Rhett] You said it, man. - [Link] It's gotta be. Should I blow both Should I go advantage? You could. I don't know what it is. I get to shart on No, I'm going for South Korea. I don't think that All right. I'm not gonna use it yet. I do think this is Korea. Could be Japan. I hope it's not Singapore. Here we go. Oh, well, I hit the writing. Okay, I'm getting better. - [Stevie] You just had an You did it. - [Stevie] It's like Ube Ube Baby. - [Stevie] Both those words are in it. Concrete, of course, being a custard with mix ins. It's their vanilla coconut, marshmallows, ube sago pearls and crispy penny Ube is an incredibly concrete's cuisine of origin, Oh! Shooky! Dang, I got. You're closer to Philippines! I got luckier Rhett, you had 6. Link, 11. It sounded like he ((Laughing)) - [Chase] I'm assuming. You also had 6. I have had sex, yes I have. ((Music)) - [Stevie] Okay, this is the final round, know, your advantage dart is Okay. - [Stevie] And, you know, that basically get to launch the Okay, great. - [Stevie] But, it's a mystery round. I'm 25 centimeters down. Boy, it's a chicken And what is, it looks It's got cucumbers and of, I guess, lettuce and mayo. I can't tell you what it that it is dang good. It's a bit greasy. Yeah, that oil is sending me to a I think. Okay, well. Ooh, that's spicy. I'm up. Oily. Cucumber-y. You want my head on to help you again? No, I prefer it if Here's the thing, man. I know I've only got 24, And it's any man's game, I'm about to just spew a Right, you're gonna get Well, I'll just talk Yeah, speak freely. I don't know what spice like curry to me. It tastes like something had in Indian food. Do they have Shake Why not? I don't know, I mean, Shake new, and I don't know how - [Link] Ooh, that's spicy. It's a spice. Well, I'm gonna go You think it's India? I'm saying India. - [Rhett] Well. In spite of yourself, I still I think this is, this than Indian cuisine. Even though there's so taken, I feel like this Or something. Crap. I don't know how you It's just so good. I'm gonna try to get Now there's no rule Right? Cause I'm gonna, I'm gonna Whoop. Okay. And throw it. And then. No rules, man. Right. Ooh, it's cold cause it in there too long. And then I'm gonna. Smush it around. Smush it around. And, yeah, if you're I just gotta hope, - [Rhett] If it's over, if it's in the gonna be hard for you to win. I know, but it's, but just the there's no, I just don't Okay, I'm gonna go all of There we go. And a lot of the left and You got Greenland. I think I did good. I mean, like, Chase, that's - [Rhett] If it's Greenland, you win. This is the best And then like a - [Rhett] It might be Greenland. - [Link] Sorry about that. Sorry about this. And sorry about all of this. - [Chase] You ruined my dance floor. - [Link] Sorry about this. And a little bit Crap. Don't worry, we'll All right. - [Stevie] You just had Chili Crisp of a Shake Shack collab based pantry brand. It's got crispy chicken breast spicy Sichuan chili crisp, and spring onion mayo, all The dish pays homage to the But it was released to Fly By Jing in The U.K. Oh! Chili oil. That's what I was Really close, Link. Crap. For my last dance, Shaking it. - [Rhett] He's tired now. - [Chase] Yeah. Yeah, in more ways than one. Alright, Rhett. 32. - [Rhett] Oh, dang it. Link, 5. Did I, I think I did it. I think you pulled it off. Did I do it? Yes. - [Stevie] You did. Yes. You did. I did it. I did it. ((Applause)) It wasn't pretty. It wasn't pretty. It was actually rather But I just want to and disadvantages. Yeah. Couldn't have done It feels good to break a And I gotta smell a? - [Stevie] Shake shart. Yes you do. - [Stevie] In Good Mythical More. Looking forward to that. Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is. I'm Matt. And I'm Sienna. And we're from Minnesota. And we're celebrating and having Shake Shack And it's time to spin Congratulations. Shake Shack, Shake Uh huh, uh huh, uh huh. Select the top link to watch best fondue for Jordan from And to find out where is gonna land. - [Link] Download our new GMM tie Sink It, for free on the play along every day. Mythicalsociety.com