- Asado de puerco is an easy to cook, and delicious family favorite recipe that my mom's been making my whole life. And in this video, we're gonna cook it up for you and share the step by step process to make it right in your own kitchens. This recipe packs a ton and beautiful color with this We're gonna cook this up outside in our family heirloom Dutch oven, and we'll be using pork butt, which is our favorite meat for the dish. It's super tender once it's done. And here's a pro tip: you want to be sure not to salt the meat before browning it, this way, it will actually and you can add the other Now let's fire it up. So let's get started with the sauce, mom. - I like to use chile We will start taking and taking out the seeds. You open them, they're easy to open, so you just open them with your hands. Take out the seeds, put them in the colander. because we're gonna rinse 'em - Gotta rinse 'em. in the boiling water. We have to rinse 'em. - And then after the sauce, - Yes. Well, we need to cut the according to what you like. I like mine to be small. - I think I want to cook it outside the way I did my carne - Yeah, that'll be perfect. - I'll help you. You can teach me how to do that. (both laughing) - Is there a reason why you - I like to use this particular one because it gives it a better flavor and it also gives it a better color. It's a beautiful, beautiful and it's very flavorful. That's why I like to use it. (water running) because sometimes they Once they're rinsed, we're gonna throw 'em in the boiling water so they can soften for 15 and they start to float to the top. So you need to press down on 'em and if you have something put it on top like that and that way it'll hold it Then next we're gonna put it in here. - It helps if you're taller too - Yes. (both laughing) All right, now mom's gonna just so she can get that last little bit of chili stuff out of there. - Use the whole bag of the chilies. So I'm gonna need about a quarter to start with of the water. I think that's more than a quarter. (both laughing) - It's a little bit too thick so I'm gonna put a little - So that was almost two cups of water. - Look at that. See how beautiful it looks? You kind of have to push but don't do it so hard because one day the whole thing went down. (Ernie laughs) - So this a beautiful red sauce. It has just the right kind of runny. Is that good for you, mom? - Perfect. - You can make the chili sauce, put it in their refrigerator and it for about a week, only - Mom, I think we should and start chopping it up, start making some asada puerco. What do you say? - High five? - High five. Okay, and we'll use the pork butt. I like pork butt because, to me, I think that's a better - Can we put some Wow in there, mom? I mean the Wow is really - There's no Wow in my asado, you put it in yours. - Okay, okay. (laughs) - I told Ernie to save because I sometimes I like to cut it in big chunk like that And if there're too much we'll take it out. But the flavor is there. Like I said, I don't cut 'em too big, they're not all the same size. Ernie's gonna go light the And then I'll go ahead and so we can start sizzling the meat. - All right, so mama wants I'm gonna pick up the lid and she's gonna drop a (oil sizzling) Oh, I like that sound. Can y'all hear that? Woo baby. (chuckles) - You know what, Ernie? This reminds me of when we that we used to have all those and they would make, and we would have those big and they would make chicharrones, original homemade chicharrones. - I remember that. - I mean, I wish I knew how to make them. I know they put baking they would put all kinds of stuff, they were so delicious. Those were the days. - Those were the days. - It's time to grind the spices. I put three garlic cloves in here. I'm gonna do those. So we're gonna smash 'em, and I'll go ahead and put the cominos. Like I said, I don't measure. So I'm just gonna go by and grind them with the garlic. I'm gonna put a little bit Black pepper, I don't use a lot. Make it into a paste. Always love the smell of - They do smell amazing. It's an awesome aroma. - Yes. Now we're gonna pour a little not too much. If you do, take the flavor It's gonna smell even better. Can you hear that? Awesome. I put 'em in just for a second, couple or five seconds maybe, so they can release the flavor. You smell them? - Oh my gosh, the bouquet - Mmhmm. Here we go, guys. We're gonna put the bay leaf in there, we're gonna put a teaspoon of salt - A teaspoon? - For now. - I thought you said and a dash of that? - Well, not with salt, because remember I'm always - All right. it's enough, but we'll see. You wanna try it, Ernie? - Yes, I do. - Oh my God, it's so delicious. - I think it needs a - More? This is how I measure. Ernie always ask me, &quot;well, how much salt did you put, mom?&quot; I don't know. I just put it. (both laugh) - How long? - About 15 minutes now because the meat is cooked. Alright, let's give it about 15-20 minutes then we'll be ready to rock and roll. What do you think, mom? How was your cook today? - Pretty good. We're gonna lick our fingers. - Ooh-wee, look at them beans steam, a little bit of this One fine meal fit for a king! Rice, salad, (trails off indistinctly) All right, mom, you got I think we should take a taste Let's try it. - All right, cheers! Oh man. - Just the way I like it. - You know what? You nailed the salt perfect, too. It's really perfect. - Yeah, I think so too. - That's one thing about pork butt I love, when you cook it right, it's right. In competition world we like to say, when something turns out really good, we like to say &quot;that's money&quot;. Folks, that right there, that's money. That is amazing. Fantastic. I've eaten it many times in my life and my mom's always made it. I've never actually watched her make it, or followed her steps. I hope you folks enjoyed this video. If you folks are interested you can go to pitmaster.us. If you're interested in a that'll kick up your barbecue game, you can go to Pitmasterclass.us. Folks, thanks for watching. I hope you enjoyed it. Mama, thanks so much and your techniques with us. It really turned out amazing. Now we're gonna sit down and - Now you have a beer. - Now I can have a beer. (laughs) Thanks for watching folks. Appreciate it very much. Love all you guys. Keep the smoke light and make it wow! Boom! (both laughing) - I love you. - And I know you see a lot of- - She also likes to use my knives. - When he's not here. (both laughing) - She likes to sneak (both laughing) I'm sorry, what were you saying, mom? - (laughs) Well now I forgot. (both laughing) After you rinse them, we'll - Nope. - Oh. We have to boil them. - What are some of the side dishes that you know go really (woman speaking indistinctly) How many minutes? without Terry? - I don't know. We'd be in trouble.