Warning: some of this video is rude. Starting now. Have you ever been to Bonar Bridge? Ever had breakfast in Bacon or seen the delights The world is awash with weirdly named places We'll look at the best that Britain, the Which town is named after a gameshow? Which city sued the makers of Batman? What goes on in Scratchy Bottom? Find out NOW in another RobWords. For this very special episode all about strange Martyn and travelled all the way to the Estonian on any list of ludicrously-named locations. At least that's what I thought before I place in Norway called A. Anyway, in this video I'll be looking at from Aa to however the hell you pronounce But allow me to begin with the best of British. Being a Brit, I'm well acquainted with how My ancestors came from Clowne, I've holidayed a pint of Butcombe. It's a beer from a place near Bristol. But those are merely skirting round the rim. England, for example, contains a bonanza of There's Slap Bottom, Flash Bottom, Scratchy Lickham Bottom. Why? Because bottom just means valley. But England also has places called Shitterton Most of these have a perfectly innocent explanation actually sited around an open sewer. Then there's of course Ugley and Nasty, nice. And if you go North of the Border, Scotland There's Bonar Bridge, The Isle of Muck and nowadays is twinned with Boring in the US, And in Wales, the local language throws out Fan Y Big, which is not far from a pair of That one's funnier to the Brits watching Fan Y Big just means "point of the peak" And then there's of course perhaps the most Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch I got a nice Welsh lady to teach me that and It means "St Mary's Church in the Hollow of Llantysilio of the Red Cave". But the locals just call it Llanfair. If we hop across the Irish Sea to Northern its famous Muff Festival. In County Tyrone they have a pair of Balix. Upper and Lower Balix, that is. And in County Antrim you can stare open-mouthed More funny place names coming up in this next So all of this has reminded me just how much Not just because of the place names, I miss the beer but do you know what I don't miss? The TV. Not because it's bad - it's great - but the best telly from back home. Whether you're in the German village of with a VPN you can surf the net like you're you can access streaming services for other There are lots of other benefits as well: and disguise your location when websites want Some travel sites will charge you more if than if you're in Clit, Romania for example, But with a VPN, you can pretend you're anywhere. NordVPN also blocks malware, stops you being malicious adverts plus, you can have it on up to six devices, So go to nordvpn.com/robwords to get the two month on top. It's risk free with NordVPN's 30 day money Twelve O'Clock Knob is just the tip of the place names that the Good Old US of A has UK is that, whereas with British place names In the US, many of these places have only So you don't have to go back very far to although my first example appears to have Watch out! There's an Accident on Route 219. The town of accident, boasting a population Which wouldn't constitute at town in most Town Council and it gives an official explanation The story goes that in 1751 a man called George could have 600 acres of land anywhere he fancied out two groups of engineers to survey the their survey in the same place at this big He therefore named that bit of land "The and the new settlement on the site shares Let's get ourselves from A to B and to the The state has you fully covered first thing County. Disappointingly though, neither is named in day. They're named after segregationist Senator E. Coffee. Don't you think Johnny Coffee sounds like "Hey it's Johnny Coffee." I'm not going to keep that bit in, that's Perhaps the most arrogantly named place on These days it's actually quite a modest an eccentric businessman called Randall D for the place. Its position at a crossroads made him think names. However, the arrival of the railroad not long so pivotal. This guy had previous by the way, he also New York. The next town I want to look at is Nameless. Nameless, Tennessee. Local legend goes that it ended up with its officials applied for a post office. They apparently left the "Name" field I wonder if the same story is behind No Name A real favourite of mine is the surprisingly It got its name because the locals wanted in 1884, however Protection's name took on new significance for the distribution of free polio vaccines. That's some smart public health messaging. A PR campaign is also behind my next crazy So back in 1950 the host of a hugely popular The show was planning to hit the road and To secure a slice of showbiz all your town And that's how we end up with Truth or Consequences, The excited people of Hot Springs - as it town's name changed and a day after the aired live from there. They've kept the name ever since and hold Our next place has had more than its fair It's this bit of land in San Bernardino The fella who gave it the name appears to He was determined to create the last word Indeed, Zzyzx Road is the last road alphabetically the world. No one actually lives there, which is probably end of the earth style name did mean that the second of which appears to have taken Almost enough to pay for a taxi out of the From the alphabetical depths, let's return I think Aa, lovely as it is, shows well enough can more than hold its own when it comes to so I have scoured the globe and picked out my best not to be offensive towards local It's time for a world tour. Music please! I hereby bring you my top ten terrible place At number 10, it's the Turkish town of Batman. No cape crusaders here, but that didn't the movies over their use of the name. Grabbing our attention at number 9 is the Actually, not the rudest place on the list, Next, I've bought us a one-way ticket to It seems the folk who stumbled across this by its lack of natural resources. Happily, no one's ever had to stoop so low At number 7: what's that coming over the Does anyone else remember that song? Anyway Monster in the Netherlands probably of its monster of a church, which was pretty For 6 let's scramble and head to the Austrian It boasts the Egg Brewery and the Egg Museum, It's a mere 450 kilometres away from its Barely stayin' alive at number 5 is Kill The same often unfortunate prefix meaning Kilmacow, Kilmore and - oh my god - Kilkenny. Putting up stiff competition at number 4, Talk show host Jimmy Kimmel is honorary mayor. Wriggling its way into third place, it's You'd be well advised to steer clear of Next in this race to the bottom at number The locals will tell you it's anoose, but And at number 1: it's the cream of the crop; the excrement; it's the Iranian village -No -Is it too rude? Okay, let's go with Condom, France. It's not twinned with Protection, Kansas, There are enough of these to make many more We havent even touched on the ones that are If you want me to make more, let me know in Disappointment Island, please do hit subscribe when my next video is up. If you enjoyed this, I think you'll like its thing. Me and Martyn now, we're going to head back way.