Chirping birds, instrumental music Narrator have gathered at the edge of the sea. There to center their lives upon the bounty South Kona on the island of Hawai`i is this And here, the shore was once dotted with many Today, there is but a single fishing village Miloli`i, a last reminder of the way many Here in South Kona, they still ply their trade the music taught them by their forefathers. The song of South Kona. Diana Aki He died in '56. I think I was about 12, 14-years-old. I came home, we moved home here to stay. This is where when I would come I would hear and Lokelani Malama. Them three always together, always singing. I never heard radio around here those days. This is where I started thinking about my And this is where my interest started coming. I would imitate, I would imitate Genoa Keawe's I would imitate Mele Kule's voice. And all through that, all through that time, own style of singing. I started becoming more confident in myself. I just I kept on myself never showed off you the singing. `Ukulele playing Aloha Punalu`u Ke kai kokolo a`o Pu`umoa Gilbert Kahele times. It's an ancient village. Not too much evidence is left of what was Except there were a lot of people that lived And a lot of their descendants still live There's about 17 families, about men, women You know then, about 50 dogs. Will Kaupiko pulling `ahis. Well, my dad who loves this place, you know. And as far as I can remember and anybody who period of time, know him as an individual In other words, he was a strong dominated wants to do. Everything he did was was all good for himself He worked hard. Sent us all to school, all my sisters and grade. And that's why he want us to return and continue It's like the old folk say when you lose the You know the land and your life kind of ties Singing in Hawaiian Narrator fishermen like Delfredo out to the same grounds Delfredo Llanes We use it for a bait and chum. What you is, you call it slice bait. What you gonna do is cut this in half, use You scoop this bait up on this, like this. Get a rock like this. Put it on. Wrap it. Put the chum on. Gotta get the chum for make smell eh? The fish come. Trying to catch some, yellowfin tuna. So, usually we go down to 50-fathoms, depends Narrator the fisherman goes about his daily job in The sea surrenders its riches to a thin fiber Sounds of pulling up fish Ocean and boat sounds Anita Kaupiko was until I came here, Hawaiian, this place I mean, from Honolulu, this place is like, The, the how you live, what you eat, it's And the people here are are good people that Will Kaupiko nothing. Everything you do is what you gain and that's So, you don't rely on nobody nothing. You just, see what you get and that's what So, it's what you make out of yourself that's Gilbert Kahele All of the families here, centered their family You know, the children went to school at the and help their parents catch `opelu. Going out to the course and catching the `opelu, I recall when I was growing up here the first the old canoes you know? Like the Apo Family, and that was their family. They would all go out to their `opelu course. And the Chang's and the Kaupiko's. Kapela Kaupiko you gotta struggle, eh. Hui when you play, when you see the `opelu behind you got to strip the canoe to the, and then when you ready to put the net in Ho then you struggle, tired. (laughs) Haul the canoe. We get mad. It's hard. Plenty fish but no more money we don't see Kala ka ia, too much you have to dry and then food. Diana Aki and moved home to Miloli`i, I used to hear know when go parties like that they, they maybe they composed this song `opelu because You know the `opelu fishing was like that's Singing in Hawaiian Singing in Hawaiian Kalua Rentigrado we are still living yet we're the last descendent Now it's time for us to let go. What we learn like hats like these in the as a stripper and this is the one that my You go anyplace baby, you'll never go hungry. If you know how to weave. That's where you find your food to support We gather the lauhala first. We have to walk to find for this. We have to divide to look the color, to divide We used to have lauhala of trees over here. And all in this type of lauhala. This is the original original lauhala from We pick these and we take them home and we how she showed us how to weave. In our days we don't have electric which just We use charcoal iron. We prepare ourselves with the wood if we have is there. It's hot. And we get the candle and then the honeybee My dad used to go collect honey bees before. So the candle we keep that to clean the, the When you iron your hats, your clothes and So, that's why the hat comes out. Shine and it's raining, you won't ruin your Your hat stay pretty everyday. Singing in Hawaiian A he `ono a he `ono Instrumental music That's why that's why we both wanted to share Maybe even lots of time more to go but we Cause she's our niece, why not? That's our love to her. And we want her to continue to keep up with But she'll carry on the song to the next generation. Roseline Boring Never dies. It goes these are recorded and is well known with some of the songs that Diana sung. Oh beautiful I hear some other people singing the song so mellow. Diane can you can you play Pelekane for us? I think where you know this the words in here come from maybe maybe tutu, may have read nupepa, newspaper in Hawaiian. So, she may have read about it and then kind was. Diana Aki (Singing) Hakaka kaulana puni i ke ao la Ho`o makaukau Ke kaua weliweli ma Eulopa `Oka topeto kau i ka beli Narrator from fathers to sons. The basic skills that bring food from the seasons and values that conserve the resources Kealoha Aki You only taking away plenty. You only take what you need. If you no more they ain't going get any for Guitar playing John Wailing (Singing) Don't you love me? I'm going away. I'm a going to leave you. Bye my loving, bye. Hele wau la me ku`u pila Ke la wehi ala o souci Guitar playing Gilbert Kahele been left alone in an isolated place along And because of the road conditions, a lot that road that five miles of winding roadway And now with all of this, you know, modern Miloli`i is getting and getting that exposure we're wired I guess, you know, exposure to And a lot of people want to come down and You know, they've heard about Miloli`i being and would like to see that Hawai`i that they And we hope that when they do come if they winding road that they respect the place and The road itself passes through the village living room and we welcome everybody but we know the people here. Well, that song came to us. Something just like a wind came and tell us. We were talking story. We were talking story about her history Tutu Well, we heard the story about Tutu Keaka she used to go down Miloli`i on these two Nothing but maile around their neck and and (Singing in Hawaiian) Ku ala ka Manuka O ka po`o wai aloha Mona Kahele don't hear them anymore. Not today. Given what the people are singing today, you And some of those songs belong down here. Whether they just made it up that time, or But they were beautiful. The composer of certain songs all come from And they move out all these areas, whether either one of them, but actually, the family Roseline Boring wave. But this tidal wave came, it was a dark dark During the night. And Miloli`i used to have plenty people new, fans. So, happy. The tidal wave came up in the night. But people family that has plenty children They grab whatever they can grab. And no light, no nothing they gotta crawl and crawl, and then the wave come. So, that was the story. And that's why they had composed this song. The baby crying see? I ne i pepe ala lani. That's the meaning of the child crying calling This song was given to me by my aunty. Kapoleilauwaieo Makana. So, that was how the story she told me. I got most of the history from her. (Singing in Hawaiian) He mele he inoa no Miloli`i Gilbert Kahele the last links with that older generation. And of course, she's trying to pass it on Bula you got Kealoha and, and, and Willie And we're very fortunate to have Diane you older generation. Kapela Kaupiko they gotta think for themselves. Yeah, they gotta stand firm and fight for Yeah, we getting old. We gone. We cannot know what they doing. Mona Kahele o boy they go out for everything. Narrator of a lu`au brings the families of the village Lu`au's are in fact feasts with an abundance The pig, a staple in the traditional Hawaiian as a gesture of aloha and sharing. It is prepared for cooking by placing searing buried in the imu or oven. Instrumental music Narrator of dirt, people of the village gathered to reaping a rich and bountiful harvest from Instrumental music Narrator and the families come together each contributing A Miloli`i gathering strengthens family ties The village traditions continue. Lu`au's often go all night sometimes on It is here that amateur as well as professional stage singing the music of this special place, `Ukulele playing Singing in Hawaiian Guitar playing Singing in Hawaiian Gilbert Kahele passed along you know from father to son. It's still, you know, it's still the individual, catching `ahi or `opelu, you know? It's a... I like to think it's a, it's a Hawaiian fishermen (Singing in Hawaiian)