Over the past few years, I've been having my try out a bunch of different video games in no gaming experience engages with them. These understanding of some of the barriers that exist observe what the process of someone becoming like. From these experiences, she's gone from who knows some things about games, causing the with each additional entry. Oh well. Regardless, from non-gamer to gamer, I've been interested in with the ones she tried early on in order to approach to playing them. So obviously, as I knew I would have to run another informal earlier games she played for this series, and it felt successful while playing it. The freedom and overcome obstacles in different ways, game was nudging her to do, she was still able games she'd get frustrated when doing the thing in Breath of the Wild the vast majority rewarding her creative thinking and never making Tears of the Kingdom takes the base of Breath designed to increase player expression, and I am curious as to how these additions like my wife as even though having it also increases complexity. This may in order to find out, I had her play through the the Great Sky Island as I figured that'd be enough of the primary mechanics and get a decent I sat back as a mostly passive observer, only already learned and advice on what to do when So, this is how it went. Tears of the Kingdom gives control to the and this was something my wife appreciated spend a ton of time waiting before actually was short lived though because the control limited. Every few steps Zelda would stop Wife: "Am I gonna get stopped by here every time?" Wife: "I don't really--she's These interruptions seem to be a excitable nerd while also providing some but my wife found it to be far more annoying than she's always found being stopped in this game she really just wants to play the game and so it happening so many times in a row things did pick up some as she came Wife: *yelling* ...wow! but then that was followed by a fairly long long cutscene. This intro is filled with a history of Hyrule, and while I found this to be for her it was just a massive info dump about didn't mean much, and led to her zoning out a in other games she's played, but certainly a scene typically comes down to whether or with The Last of Us, she was drawn in right is about people connecting with each other, going on in a way that hearing about a war that While there are certainly a few great moments in they largely fail at being compelling What matters more is that she went from thinking through 20 plus minutes of dialogue and cutscenes decent bit of whiplash. And unfortunately, it game proper because upon arriving in the room of she spent about 5 minutes searching every corner To her, the Master Sword looked too blunted and it would break before anything she might hit with off about that, but it did lead to her drawing the overthought what was being asked of her, causing finding anything, she eventually gave the master Wife: *gasp of realization* Wife: "I'm a dummy" Throughout these experiments, I've noticed much as I do when playing a game. For her if it a second thought. So when she got a sword in her mind, it stopped being a viable answer to she's largely gotten better at interpreting does still get tripped up sometimes, and this was playthrough of Tears of the Kingdom. The first very start with her not knowing what button Wife: "Can you help me? How do I follow the thing Raz: "Press A" And this is pretty much exactly Breath of the Wild for the first time. Wife: "Where's the--" Wife: "A...Well, okay, it had a little triangle In fairness to her, it has been years since it didn't stick with her. Also, the majority prompts for various actions, so having the present most information. Another example came green coloring of the locked door, the green light and the green light of the construct core in her leading to a good chunk of time being spent Wife: "Are you kidding me right now? Are you Ultimately, there will always be visuals that play games all the time, and, while I do think ways the information they put out there may be every players brain will process stuff. That's why can learn is to just test everything even if it they originally started focusing on. Frankly Anyway, bringing it back to how things started, once she figured out that the Master Sword through the next bit easily enough, and after Wife: "Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm. she made the leap into the true start of about 30 minutes to get to a spot where things time was filled with textboxes and cutscenes. By Breath of the Wild's title reveal and into the immediately get a feel for the gameplay and what of Tears of the Kingdoms opening sequence is a and it definitely left her feeling less engaged a long way for both experienced and inexperienced gameplay is the best way to connect someone to get to that, the better, especially when they have tough when a game relies so heavily on cinematics is trying to do. Tears of the Kingdom's slower things did get smoother once she made it into the proved to be a challenge for her in ways that When it comes to games that center around player and ideas to figure out, and finding the best in the way of the player's freedom is a tough to get perfect, and Tears of the Kingdom is no one of three ways: either pausing the action having a small prompt pop up in the top right something by an NPC. I've talked a bit in the past primarily that pausings runs the risk of annoying the screen can be easy to miss. Games that finding some sort of middle ground between the two put the information front and center. While my Tears of the Kingdom, the third one is what ended playthrough. The Great Sky Island is filled with about anything from combat to cooking. It's a cool but it doesn't come without issues. The first and it's unlikely that players will comb every are pretty tucked away, it makes it very likely What ended up being the biggest reason my wife they are the primary enemy type on the island, a helpful one, she became wary of all of and couldn't tell which kind of construct was just avoid them whenever possible. Eventually were friendly--she noticed that intense music so as long as the music wasn't playing, she she had already passed important stuff that would to get the ascend ability, the player has to deal most efficient way to do that is by cooking a meal the entryway of the area that tells this to the The ones that do were on a different part of the to figure it out on her own. Obviously, it's is something a lot of players will remember from it once before years ago, she didn't know what the fire to see if an option to cook would pop, but I get why Nintendo likes it to be more of a the right direction, and she mostly was confused how it worked. In Nintendo's effort to have these possible for them to not being taught at all. This far more obvious mechanics in unavoidable ways, In fairness, Tears of the Kingdom does have player freedom, and it can be hard to communicate player. I imagine the reason some aspects so that the player doesn't get bombarded with that category doesn't make much sense to me, even with there being fewer mandatory my wife still got overwhelmed quickly from the Wife: "There's too many buttons for this. With all the things Link can do in Tears much used up to its limit. There aren't that there are also a bunch of conditional where you're standing, or if you're in the is something I had some troubles with. Even wrong thing when trying to switch abilities, all this information would be even more As new mechanics were introduced to her, instead just relied more on the ones she felt comfortable doing the stuff she remembered from Breath of did serve her well for a while, but unfortunately, Wife: "This doesn't make it--oh god. Okay, how do I Can you help me? I don't have a lot of time." Wife: "How might I be able to Of the mechanics new to Tears of the Kingdom, the imagine is fairly common. It is wildly versatile with it in mind. In fact, when watching her play, centered around teaching the ins and outs of showing the different use cases to players has into the game proper much smoother. However, this of the Great Sky Island in that in order to the player is heavily guided down a certain they are pointed directly at the Ultrahand next to it. Then it encourages the the ascend shrine which is up in the mountains somewhat close and the trek looks simple enough, there are paths on both sides of the Ultrahand increasing the odds even further that players it's the path I took, and it's the path game took. Most importantly, it is the path and they aren't subtle about it. This is a pretty the WIld's tutorial. Once the player starts down progression around the Great Sky Island. There are players can't really change course unless while Breath of the Wild also has an intended given the layout of the Great Plateau, players any point. This is something my wife appreciated various challenges she encountered. When she came she'd just go somewhere else and take With Tears of the Kingdom though, she ran choke points where she had to engage with progress. These bottlenecks act as a way to of the complexities of the major abilities before to provide more situational practice. It makes go against the open design philosophy of Breath of Tears of the Kingdom. This created a bit of was able to forge her own path, and instead had to Wife: "Oh god. Oh god. Help me! no. Are you kidding me? That's not funny." On top of that, the Great Sky Island being aren't always the easiest to traverse didn't consequential because getting back on track was last was like in Breath of the Wild. Instead eyes mostly serving as a way to eat up a bunch of these diversions did get her to better understand she didn't find it satisfying to put in so much Most side paths ended up feeling like dead ends to an item or bypass a small part of the main path, To be clear, Tears of the Kingdom's tutorial has two players will walk the exact path within can be done without engaging with whatever it It is also possible to complete the shrines first involves running directly past one of the for any reason other than to get footage for a Despite all that, the navigational freedom given made it harder for her to play how she wanted to. used to give players choices, in Tears of the feel like they have choices even though the game one path. While this certainly wasn't the biggest way she didn't really in Breath of the Wild. way around the island, it would have been a far then down--it doesn't require solving any Ultrahand from one shrine to the next. And even a lot of the ascend shrine and using a plane to glide over would have thought to do that, and she didn't have Wife "What's happening? What's R? Woooooooooooosh. I don't know that All in all, even though that path would have been take it, as gaining a better understanding of the things with no resistance. Going the unintended of a bunch of mechanics, and it's almost a bit because of how ineffective of a tutorial it ends this path teaches the most valuable lesson of many ways to "break" the intended experience, and my wife didn't learn that lesson in this way, Even though the main abilities in Tears of the ones in Breath of the Wild and therefore harder to especially like I mentioned before, Ultrahand. the most throughout these experiments typically she finds it fun to create stuff, and it also for her to feel invested. When she can manipulate more opportunities to do things in a way that conform to what a game wants her to do. This type being more effective within the game space. Of take her a while to get used to. Getting objects of trial and error, and due to all the conditional was in and move things in ways she didn't mean to. in suboptimal ways, and she found herself wishing Wife: "Are you kidding me? Raz: "Well...it doesn't know how you want it." Raz: "Why?" obvious." Wife: "Don't you write about While this would make the building in interesting, given that most of the things she I do understand the desire for it to auto sense. It being so particular with how attaching of time trying to get things right, and as in her she always wanted things to be perfectly aligned, her a ton of practice though, and she started and due to it being a mechanic she enjoyed, she The other ability she got a decent bit of being able to get to the top of things quickly, Wife: *screams* As for the other two, she barely engaged with it was mandatory. In fact, she actually skipped This first happened in the Fuse shrine with focused on the green of the chest matching the at the wood plank and leaves surrounding for a different solution, the fire fruits she and she instead found a torch, placed Wife: "I did it! Not what I thought Even though the plan was off by a bit, it still instance was just before the 4th shrine. To get to room and then use recall to traverse these gears, them, towards the way point on her mini-map. At to climb up, but then remembered that she could Wife: *gasp* I wanted to do that all the way..." Wife: "Oooooooooo" The last major instance happened in the where the player has to use recall to align the but instead my wife used Ultrahand to get Wife: *gasp* All of these were really awesome to see because to do them. With all three instances, it seems these approaches in mind. While they definitely their goal still is to get them to be as creative obstacles that can be solved through the use of do that, and it certainly worked for my wife. It the ins and outs of its major mechanics. she was eventually able to have a similar sense had with Breath of the Wild. I'd even argue form of freedom as most of the freedom she able to find her own path to a destination, and the option to climb nearly everything than the freedom came through clever uses of the had learned earlier in order to progress, even and this made her feel good at the game in All things said and done, Tears of the Kingdom her than its predecessor. For most of it, she obstacle and confused by the complexity of various place where she understood the mechanics well sense for her. And that's the beauty of Tears gives players the tools to do things in a way almost always multiple solutions to a problem, and the mechanics are so versatile that players have have fully anticipated. Now, I don't think every me to think in the way it wants me to, but it is players this much agency. And I think titles that players. Not having to conform to a single part is getting those players to a point where to learn, and I don't think Tears of the Kingdom In some instances it leaves far too much up to a way that feels at odds with the game's ethos.. wife engage with it in the way it was meant to Tears of the Kingdom is far too massive and in playing a whole lot more of it, but the her confidence as well as gain an understanding Breath of the Wild, it met her in the and I think titles that do this are some of Wife: "Are you proud of me?" Wife: "I was really good." Wife: "I was extra good. Wanna do another one?" As my wife has played through the first hour about time to check in with her to see which ones a list of her favorites for us to go over, and you Nebula. For those of you who don't know, Nebula been a part of for 3 years now, and over there you well as a ton of videos that are exclusive to essay diving into the ending of BioShock Infinite, a script I wrote 10 years ago into an actual experiment with content like interviewing my wife one of the best ways to support me as a creator the description I get a chunk of that money for as get access to everything on Nebula which ranges anything else that some of the best creators on Wars Holiday special . Also, Nebula is currently payment that gives you access to the service for But of course, if you're not looking to make a a month for a year over at nebula.tv/razbuten. is one of the best places on the internet well worth the money. So yeah, and watch my wife talk about how she likes sponsoring this video. For all of you still for making this channel possible and give a honorary bagbuten. I hope you all have a great day Wife: "Ahhhhhh I wanna be done. Take it." Wife: "I'm done!"