[Dan] What you're looking at is a story. It's a story about numbers, it's a story numbers and people interact. It's a story about World of Warcraft, in video game, in a way a story about video games It's a story about why it's rude to be It's December 2004. Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing by storm and Wallace, the Gnome Rogue walks Wallace, a proper hobbit of a gnome, doesn't anywhere. His guild thinks this is a little embarrassing, a quirky weirdo they met in this new video Ultimately they enjoy having Wallace around Six months later they're screaming at Wallace Ultimatums are dropped, tempers are elevated, Someone calls Wallace a bad player. No one disagrees. [Gentle music] [Choice] 'Instrumental play' was first in his 1993 essay "The Fictive and the Imaginary." Iser, a highly influential theorist, saw play of free and instrumental based on how the On one hand is play unburdened by systematized In Iser's framework play becomes instrumental resembling rules and structure. However in Iser's work this was largely other around a field for no reason other than chasing each other in a game of football with Its discussion in relation to video games 2006 book Play Between Worlds. 'Instrumental play is a goal-oriented approach strategies as part of play. In instrumental play, the point of playing way of getting there.' This is, for the record, not a discussion we are talking about the ways you play the desirable. This is a critical distinction, and perhaps all this it is this confrontation: the idea that the correct way of playing a game is some natural force of reality, but an imposed If you've ever gotten destroyed in a video of how hard you got thumped, that feeling value that you are imposing on yourself. [Dan] It's common for instrumental play to are ends of a spectrum. This is understandable in no small part because which can often result in deeply un-fun player This gets extended out to the extreme where is treated as irrational or somehow less genuine "innocent", "unadulterated" version It's important in this conversation to establish, We are going to spend a lot of time talking which is why I want to stress that they are Rather than being in conflict with one another an opposed relationship, but there is a complex Because if you back up and think about it, find a deep enjoyment in improving at a skill, to complex problems. Rather, instrumental play, play focused on form of play that is without ending. Neither free or instrumental play can exist book Battlefields of Negotiation describes instrumental and free play. For every arena match or dungeon, there is waiting in town and just stand there, aimless. This moment, this is free play approaching An important consideration here is that game action. A game can attempt to prescribe an action, but players tend to chafe against moments come off as naive or insincere or, in the If you refuse to pay your respects then that's it just bricks, a standoff between you and Whether or not you close the application, stop playing the game. World of Warcraft offers players a tremendous It is, after all, an entire virtual world. You are, indeed, broadly free to not pay your that. You can shun levels, talent trees, and even very long time in a way that's still identifiably Why shouldn't you stand facing a wall on the nature of the Draenei... forever? Roleplaying is a genuine example of the value play. Roleplayers engage with World of Warcraft you or I might engage with it. They are often less concerned with the explicit prefer emergent activities. By shunning the game's progression system, but when roleplayers self-direct, say, by of thousand dollars of charity year after that morphs into a form of instrumental play. In this sense, you cannot have free and instrumental You might be surprised just how much of the because it reflects a fascinating alternative, a game. And that nuance, that question of how you doesn't concern itself with, like, the numbers, stuff that the game is fundamentally made Blizzard can't force you to stop staring certain play practices and very rarely abolish In Battlefields of Negotiation, Glas's core god in the World of Warcraft, the developers Yes, they have immense influence and a form who push their vision of the game, which either Writing on Lineage II, Professor of Informatics by a "mangle of play", the push and pull players. Blizzard has access to certain tools and means Warcraft experience, they have control over gets made and implemented, but they are not MMOs are "interactively stabilized" systems, intersection of designers, armed with their own practices. Blizzard has code, the players have codes Social codes of practice are 'the tenets have no design power or automatically conferred These social codes are often linked with perceptions game'. But they go far beyond that, and can shape of Warcraft. In Leet Noobs, Mark Chen sees success in World To be good at World of Warcraft is defined Put another way, you are good if you do enough that good players do. Success is relative and socially defined. For a simple example, arena rating was very While a typical season tends to have a median deflated with a median rating of 1426. Some behind the scenes tweaking leading into In the abstract both of these are fine, the are all relative, the numbers are arbitrary. If you are a high level competitor the experience same regardless of what the median rating it's just shifted upwards. The hitch is that certain rewards, like titles, specific ratings. So the inflation resulted in the prestige usual, many of whom would never have qualified This led to a rather vocal belief that these count'. Despite the game layer presenting these dragons in their social value. For Glas, World of Warcraft is composed of linked together by particular systems of knowledge, Big boy raiders and roleplayers have totally there is no single objective way to approach These idiocultures exist in layers. You've got WoW players categorically, PvP versus Raids, Guilds, individual guilds, and players can move seamlessly between all of ideocultures. These different idiocultures may subscribe interaction between these groups and the constant Glas argues shapes World of Warcraft. It is the interaction between different groups meaning of play. Instrumental play has entrenched itself as of Warcraft. Through social codes of practice, players be completely unaware of. It is taken as value neutral, and objectively objectives of play, and thus the default mode In other words: It's bad manners to be bad [Choice] We're going to talk for a moment If you play World of Warcraft then you probably don't then all you need to know is this; reward from a grid that fills up as you do Options are dictated by difficulty and volume. Do more stuff, get more picks. Do higher difficulty stuff, get stronger picks. Case study A: during the Shadowlands Season BDGG, our players were required to fill all 'mirror' mains. Since there is an element of luck to gearing copies of the same class in order to have the chances of a favorable outcome. For this particular raid tier, our Moonkin Death Knight raider prepared four Death Knights, of being the main character, based hugely These are players who are paid, in dollars, eSports event. Achieving the absolute optimum performance job description. This expectation was only maintained until point no one cared, job's done, do what Case study B: Venture, US rank 180th. They are a 2 night a week guild that has some If you'll allow us this one indulgence, stupid opinion. If some of this goes over your head, don't I promise you will pick up the important parts. So it's Season 3 of Shadowlands, almost Our good friend and contributor to the show, a lengthy break, so we spin up a group and In terms of gear, Crystal is wearing old junk alts. But a member of our group, the tastefully character, in part to make it easy but also Moistrainbow is doing this for a chance at This is one of the best trinkets in the game We end up doing over eight keys, but only Moistrainbow does not do any other keys for So, at the end of the week, this is what his He has 3 chances at the Unbound Changeling, The Changeling is 1 of 91 potential items. Huh. That's good right? That's good. Having consulted the team, a player getting But Venture felt differently. They came down on Moist hard for not maxing There was explicit shaming, snarky remarks, about players needing to do their part for And perhaps on the face of it, you're empathetic But we have been pissed off about this incident Remember, this was a piece of gear generated loot drama, there was no alternate home for The issue was entirely in the missed opportunity Gear in Warcraft is comprised of stats that overall budget, dictated by its slot and by These stats all do and mean a lot of different So the ultimate unit of measurement we use contribution to the player's damage. How do we do that? Easy, we build a robot to play our character a couple of thousand times, and then compare Typically, a higher item level should translate However, trinkets are not like other pieces A trinket lives or dies on its effect. So this Unbound Changeling was the best possible item level from the max. If we compare simulation results from a Destruction is barely perceptible on the graph. This particular simulation values the overall Here are some more details on that if you But we've buried the lead on this, because damn healer. And healers are a whole different deal. Healers don't have the same simple, tangible For well over a decade, it has been standard of gear, on the basis that they don't really We don't have any real way to even quantify While this would not be accurate at all, let's point-six percent figure. This was in the context of a guild that was on bosses that had been hit with the nerf And just for those in the know, these people early June - like... I don't even have the words. Gear was not their problem. So a close friend of mine was bullied and a few more hours running dungeons to load half-percent increase in performance, where from the problems the group was encountering. The reason we wanted to talk about this is petty reason to give someone a hard time in Frankly, It's pathetic. This was not an instrumental practice, this Here, the social value of the item level was value. The process of completing the necessary 8 of commitment to the group. The fact that the trinket was worth something [Dan] Early attempts at anthropological studies Some might look back on them as hopelessly bad. Many of them sought to reify online spaces, as a separate self-sustaining world, an actual of reality as the moon or perhaps Australia. In Coming of Age in Second Life, Tom Boellstorff Life, but critically did not involve the user's in his analysis. The work drew criticism from Alex Golub, who The virtual worlds of MMOs are not enclosed [Choice] My experience with World of Warcraft harddrive. Discord, Twitch, Twitter, Google Docs, they World of Warcraft without 'inhabiting' I work as a contributor to Skill Capped, an content. I might be at the point where I spend more inside it. So we have MMO-Champion, WoWhead or whatever, is "paratext". If you're into a certain, lame, type of have heard before. It's one of those words that gets thrown clean definition. The concept of paratext was originally conceived Genette saw a book as containing the text other components that were necessary for the of the primary text. You have the actual story of Warcraft: Durotan, a foreword and so on. Things that aren't the 'text', but still The title gives you some idea of what the might tell you what a certain character looks For Genette, all of that additional text required But let's be real, while this is all interesting, It's an acquired taste. The field of literary academia focusing solely in 2022. There have been attempts to apply Genette's For instance, it could be said that this video's You saw the video recommended by YouTube and saw. If you've encountered the term paratext definition, but rather the definition attributed Consalvo is a Comms professor who tastefully formulation. [Dan] For Consalvo, paratext was any text further enhance meanings, or provide challenges So paratext are texts that exist to influence This is reviews, walkthroughs, pre-release The material that "surround, shape, support There is a legitimate criticism to be made becoming so vague as to lose all meaning. But for our purposes, this is a blessing. WoWhead and Warcraftlogs are paratext for Developer interviews are paratext. Forum boards and twitter threads have been Podcasts, fan art, and machinima straddle converting the original text into a paratext AddOns have been called paratext. Whatever this is, Paratext. [Crusader] 2 v 3 biiiiiiitch! Do do do do do do! Do do do do do do! Do do do do do do! Trash players! Trash players! Traaaaaaaash! In most media, a movie or painting is produced, act on the dominant text, a particularly incisive of the story and themes, or fan fiction can that would otherwise appear subtle or even Maybe if a movie gets a sequel, the filmmakers and thus the paratext has influence over subsequent It is common for paratext to alter the way the most part that's where it stops; it and actually alter a text. World of Warcraft, like many online games, World of Warcraft is constantly being updated that can sit on shelves and be dusted off constantly being updated so is a lot of the The paratext is in a constant state of churn At a basic level, paratext is a form of feedback YouTube videos critical of certain changes, outlets, explosive forum threads or viral an inevitable dialogue with these paratexts, be read as either integration or rejection But beyond that, paratext interacts with social Paratext emerge from, create and disseminate And what then tends to be prescribed are ideals When a new strategy or idea is discussed, and push it out in the world. That then influences how the game is played and legitimate. The expressions of this can be surprisingly as which of two perfectly symmetrical hallways There is a shocking amount of social friction choices, and picking the one other players In The Sepulcher Of the First Ones these two They're literally identical. There is absolutely nothing to distinguish But for whatever arbitrary reason, Looking unspoken assumption, a rut-like convention, If you get dropped into a randomly assembled left path? People will yell at you. These are the foundation of all the small navigate a dungeon for the fiftieth time. These are the rituals that allow players to they are the one expected to stand somewhere Many of these silent ruts are just that: ruts get even more intense if there are consequences, quantified in some way or another as less [Choice] In the Plaguefall dungeon, the first summon sets of slime creatures that will make If any reach Globgorg, he will be healed for Low-difficulty or uncoordinated groups usually But at the highest difficulties, the standard prevent the larger slimes from reaching the If executed correctly, this positioning and And it's not difficult, but the risk is Any breakdown in the management of the slimes Upon first discovering this strategy on a for the Globgorg Gambit. We essentially became agents of the strategy, To quote Kristine Ask, "theorycrafting paratext co-producing a more performance-oriented playstyle." Put another way, when players theorycraft, run math through spreadsheets to decide which strategies proliferate through the playerbase, they also legitimize and elevate the act of indirectly, towards a playstyle where optimization World of Warcraft is so interesting because of the internet. Because the game is so influenced by paratext, as changes in the game itself. As the internet changes how we communicate, that fact changes WoW. In the game's early life, Thotbott and later But they were only as good as the information for the sites to build up a repository of And that didn't guarantee accurate information, However, as Mark Chen points out, that didn't expert practice. Actually the complete opposite happened. [Dan] Rather than being seen as cheating, did. And in 2006, it relied on word-of-mouth, you it. In her book Cheating, Consalvo points out like GameFAQs to be perceived as cheating, So it's interesting how WoW would invert And as Ask points out, that's, uh, weird. When World of Warcraft released, streaming existed through from that into the rise of on Twitch. Like, this is actually worth stressing, because information asymmetry, has changed over the If you were watching a strategy video in 2007, [Music] But today, in the sci-fi future of the 2020s? [Narrator] Now, when the fight starts you're somewhat similar to this. Now the reason you're gonna want to be spread ability called Air Burst. Now this does 1500 nature damage in a 15 yard [Dan] In his 2013 thesis, Play to win, Benjamin as a primary source of knowledge for World The printed strategy guides that Consalvo In 2022, it's common for players to seek of twitch streamers or relevant discord servers. [cut to DK VoDs] Someone looking how to play a Blood Death from dozens of excellent Blood DKs. Potentially hundreds of hours of VoDs to comb Taken in its totality, the effect of all this When discussing strategy guides, Consalvo that exploration, persistence and strategizing Essentially, the strategy guides taught its When Choice makes one of his dorky PvP guides on the vine, it implicitly communicates that The video inadvertently reinforces the idea be doing. Each video represents a brick in an echo chamber The value ascribed to these videos turns the celebrities. This accelerates the process, as their expert Kristine Ask first observed this phenomenon Imagine having this ringing in your ears for What would that do to a person? [Choice] This robot is a product of paratext. It's an understatement to say that simulations They are a core pillar of the game, and often rest. Best in Slot lists, gameplay guides, even principles that arise from simulations and When referring to the combat logging site, are now used casually, reinforcing competition "Through the production of paratexts, competitive for cultivating tactics, but also repositioning in game design." This state of affairs has become so normalized In the case of WoW because of the pace at either explicitly as feedback or implicitly WoW and its paratext has become so thin as apparent than the subject of AddOns. [Dan] AddOns are, of course, software that AddOns were a major pillar of PC gaming in extremely relevant through to today. Many famous titles began their life as mods, without modding, some legacy titles are literally and operating systems leave them behind, and devs to learn the craft by poking around and Mods are still around, but mod support is ago. Today, if a game has mod support it tends Titles like Minecraft, Oxygen Not Included, don't see mod support as an extra little identity. So while mods haven't gone away, their scope In 2022 the biggest titles are online competitive Titles like Counter-Strike or League of Legends esport elements. These are games where the integrity of the Support for AddOns represent an unstable element In fact, most developers of esport-adjacent third party software that interacts with the There are a few exceptions. Team Fortress 2 gives the player the ability The power the user is given to change the add new UI elements, only alter the presentation The closest comparison I was able to find Counter Strike. This is a major point of departure for World WoW wants to be counted amongst your League a lot of groundwork for the modern live-service games, it was built to be like Everquest and Both games from the early 2000s with mod support. Mods in that era were significantly less potent, 2022 didn't really exist in Everquest in There is an old allakhazam tutorial on modding hypothetical uses of mods. "Mods can introduce new information or functions to use, or make the playing screen more pleasing They can turn your cursor into a Nature Walker's and put every important zone [location] or you are in-game." These are not what we would today consider They are aesthetic and ergonomic changes. These are precisely the kinds of mods that creating. And the appeal of these mods are pretty clear. Users are empowered to sculpt the game to is almost entirely outsourced. Mods offer huge value to companies, who are passionate volunteers. In 2003, the developers working on World of they were making an Elder Scrolls-Ultima-Everquest Of course, a few people would inevitably min-max But the decision to support mods wouldn't Probably. [Choice] World of Warcraft in a lot of ways Its extensive mod support is a relic of a Mods today are more powerful than the founders We can argue whether or not Blizzard should But ultimately that frames the debate as Blizzard The decision to give mod developers freedom, and consumer empowerment, as mod support so It's what modders created and our eagerness So while this may seem redundant, we want AddOns and, well, AddOns. On the one hand we have mods like OneBag, Mods that improve the user experience or offer I would rope most of the Dragonflight UI customisation On the other hand you have BigWigs and Gladius in combat. These are mods whose creation and use is predicated is to say: these mods exist to provide information Since these mods are used explicitly in the cheating and legitimacy naturally follows. Even though most players don't frame this feel the subject of legitimacy hanging in The mods we are most concerned with, the mods the ones that assume cognitive load. [Dan] The seminal authority on this incredibly Leet Noobs. Chen wrote extensively about AddOns and their but his insights have only grown more relevant In Leet Noobs, Mark Chen is concerned with complex social and technical systems that Chen sought to demonstrate how AddOns could To begin, Chen develops on Edwin Hutchin's For Hutchin, many cognitive tasks can be conceptualized resources. If I take notes on a sheet of paper, if I of a hidden treasure, I am offloading the paper. The pen and paper are assuming certain responsibilities, performing a duty of carrying a cognitive Chen takes this concept to its logical extreme actor in a given system is human or non-human. This concept is called object-oriented ontology, treated as though they have agency. My brain and a pen and paper are equally capable doctor's appointment. There are certainly critiques that can be In the context of notetaking, it could be rather than assuming responsibility. But as you will see, certain mods are so potent is probably the best way to describe it. This leads Chen to a lengthy discussion of ANT posits that the roles and responsibilities an organization or a raid group, are distributed And object-oriented ontology tells us that And since a raid group is nothing more than can become essential agents in a raid environment. [Choice] So, the AddOns we are most concerned load that would otherwise be placed on players, From this we can place mods on a kind of abstract carry. A lot of mods we just don't care about, because they carry no meaningful cognitive On the other end of the spectrum mods like high amount of cognitive load, because they The smallest example of a useful mod we can would be the crosshair. It's not uncommon now to see top end raiders of their screen, representing where their Your character cannot, typically, leave the So strictly speaking, the crosshair is entirely It is an actor whose role is to answer a question Where is my character, it's in the middle And yet if we show you footage of a modern the visual noise. 'Where is my character?' is a simple question having to take the extra split second to find and that task can be offloaded to two brightly In recent years, competitive raid guilds have additional player outside of the raid that via livestreams. Traditionally that role was performed by a the role have grown to the point now where carry that amount of cognitive load. The cognitive load of managing the raid has is not on the raid frames. However, that idea is not remotely new. T. L Taylor, writing in 2009 on the subject to DBM as "a kind of autonomous agent, the It's quite common for raid mods like DBM or to perform certain duties. On the Mythic Jailer encounter, six players explode. To keep their friends alive, they each need To minimize the amount of coordination or problem to a mod. An AddOn assigns each player their own hole, robot tells you. By the time this goes live, progression for than a fortnight. A huge point of discussion for us has been responsibility as possible. Just how much of our Raid Leader could be [Dan] In Leet Noobs, Chen discusses at great his guild. We take it for granted today, but in early The lack of knowledge around threat meant their damage, because if they did too much And you couldn't put a number to what 'too Chen describes in detail his guild's theories I won't get into the details, but it was to ever press Eviscerate, a core ability that a press. "Eviscerate does static damage!" Early theories on threat were similar to Onyxia's vague uncertainties and a healthy dose of Threat in 2004 was what we'd today call A scenario like this, where DPS are deliberately about threat, significantly increased the The superstition was replaced with absolute "A mechanic that was previously invisible to be made useful." The process of threat was now a process of If the rogue saw that they had a decent buffer they would have once hesitated. As tools, the damage meter naturally preceded But in the early days the value of damage Chen observed that his guild members initially tools. He invoked the metaphor of 'trying to describe But once they were adopted, they quickly became meter naturally elevates the damage meter. Because ultimately, the value of threat management The creation of the damage meter created the their damage output, and thus legitimized of contribution. The reason why we articulate the value of DPS is the base unit that we use to measure What was once the central pillar of the DPS In the years that followed, threat became they chafed against it. Over the years Blizzard has had a few cracks recall, the creators can't force it. In a modern context it is easy to view this game is better off without it sitting on top That may be true, but because nothing with Chen describes a couple of different players but for narrative simplicity we're going a character who walks between encounters and that Chen witnessed. "There was one of my guild mates, not guild raid mates - since he was in a different guild. He played this character who refused to wear Every piece of clothing or item you get can So to not wear boots is a handicap, but like, and having fun and stuff ... And there was Which is a total pain in the ass, because to get to wherever you're going, but he never The experience of the Wallaces of the world shift around them, from light roasting over Threat meters changed what raiding meant. To RP walk everywhere wasn't a cute character to everyone else. Wallace's lesser contribution could be portrayed This is how social practices change, and how Threat meters and damage meters created a by players, and as an individual, you could Wallace not wearing shoes shifted from being consequences to being a very precisely quantifiable failing to Play Correctly. And in defining what it meant to 'correctly' legitimate means of inhabiting Azeroth. In doing so, the infinite world that so enthralled bit smaller. A typical single player game may be built distinctly cater to it, but peak instrumental view. Think speed running. I love Dark Souls 3, but have never seriously In comparison to regular play, the speed runs to the point they're functionally different A rich speed running scene can exist without [WoW footage] World of Warcraft, in contrast, has a very You can't really escape them, even if you Even the social elements of the game, things for the propagation of the numbers. WoW is a big game, and it's extremely complex long strings of stuff positioned with little it's there, or even if you should bother. When new content is introduced no one goes "hey, this place is kinda done, you sure There's a lot of reasons for that, namely better, but it's a thing, and as a result If you stumble into the Molten Front in 2022 the game's not going to tell you that this 2011. So, given the existence of these cul-de-sacs, to new players? Join a guild, find people who will help answer up-to-date on the game, who can collectively what you can or should be doing, who can tell but also kinda lame and there's not a lot Whether it be that kind of spontaneous, organic Elitist Jerks, guilds are repositories of Kristine Ask describes guilds as communities They are communities defined in part by what From the very start, players are primed to practices. World of Warcraft is a game with a large degree always a tricky mix of reliance and imposition. In order for you to accomplish your goals, to a certain level of proficiency. And if I can't do that, well, odds are no next. [Minus fifty DKP] WoW's raiding environment pushes this to As you'll recall, Chen describes a raid Like a musical band, sports team or school As a scheduled, regular social obligation, is required to keep players motivated to attend, As discussed earlier, it can be said that means to be "stuck" depends on where everyone The raid groups that perform the most effectively like work, their work defines what success practices become the expert practices as anyone strategies, their group compositions, their might be a bunch of different strategies that if it works it must work for a reason. [Choice] For instance, Limit achieved the raid leader. That 21st player outside the raid we mentioned This was not unheard of, but it was not a Three years later, it's a ubiquitous tactic And our friends over at Venture, the trinket From Twitch streams to full strategy guides, their practices. This paratext not only contains the methodology certain problem, but you'll recall it also to apply to raiding. This is a byproduct of emergent play, the at finding unintended solutions to the challenges Which means that what they end up doing can solution would appear to be. What the designers may well have intended Over the course of years, theorycrafting has casual players, that it appears value neutral. The way we conceptualize a raid encounter, it is all informed from behaviors disseminated Even when we do see innovation emerge from Mythic Jailer strategy, those strategies are This goes beyond stabilization of theorycrafting If a critical mass of guilds are replicating top guilds have a direct impact on the whole This level of instrumental play creates a than they otherwise would be. Blizzard can either ignore this and create they can presume that they will be used. This has gradually resulted in content that thus pushes players towards adopting them. We have seen this phenomenon play out quite Mods that were once prohibited from tournament of adoption has skyrocketed. This had tremendous implications for the game's The best players, who had a culture of minimizing as the legitimate measure of success, suddenly expectations. Crucially, this legitimized mod usage in a permission to go crazy. This resulted in players who could react faster they never previously possessed. The game designers sought to offset these airhorn whenever a monk casts Bonedust Brew. The only solution to the impact of mods is It's a feedback loop. As the Race to World First has continued to become a crucial element of the process. For years now, the contending guilds have rosters to develop specialized software to "WeakAuras" is a mod that is so powerful mod. It is one part software development language, It would be easier to list the things that It can be used to single-handedly rebuild ever use. But even that is underselling this thing. I would lose my job if I accurately described WeakAuras have become the first port of call Applying the principles of cognitive distribution, is 'can a WeakAura handle that?' To which the answer is most often, yes! It is increasingly common to see mods form Many encounters, such as Mythic Fatescribe effectively execute. Since deferring to WeakAuras is the first solution to emerge. What is there to gain by digging your heels Jailer Runes? Since no other alternate solutions exist, are adopted basically universally. The same tools designed by and for professional A popular observation regarding AddOns is surveillance among players. A mod like CT_RaidAssist would function if effectiveness was predicated on mass adoption. In the case of these auras, they require everyone to function correctly. If you join a raid and don't have the correct tell everyone where to stand during Prototype This has led to the creation of WeakAuras Sepulcher of the First Ones was dominated [Dan] So to recap, strategies seep from the use inform the techniques that will see mass Smart practice for these guilds is to offload this results in a critical mass of strategies Since there is rarely incentive to develop in these mods see near total adoption. These tools rely on all players running the to no say in whether they install this software. Because this practice is so widely adopted, these tools will exist, further entrenching to run even more tools to surveil raid members And this is how a guild like mine ends up We aren't pursuing high ranks or looking ourselves. We just want a sense of forward momentum week In Shadowlands, we've found ourselves pressing do, whether that's run keys, install mods, It parallels the experiences of Kristine Ask, Wolves", sought to tempter their instrumental They wanted to do well on their own terms, They mocked the "no lifers" who took the lured toward adopting the ideas and practices because, well, they work. Because that's the thing about these practices, they solve these problems. And if adopting some of these techniques is to comfortably succeeding, that is a trade But for those players who are left behind, The coevolution of WoW hit a dead end, if This arms race between the devs and the players, What we need to do is hit the reset button, simpler time. Surely, surely, that will fix this. [Music] When I first covered WoW Classic, I painted tourism, a chance to revisit a compelling to a broad playerbase. I've received the odd request for a follow as good a time as any to indulge. In the recent marketing for WoW Classic, Blizzard of a mainstream audience. The advertisement is aimed first and foremost with the game. I don't know, maybe I was onto something. However, this is not how a hardcore audience [Choice] Classic is a return to when the game For example, a big complaint from the Classic WoW introduced to dungeon and raid content, Raids should be meritorious. Killing all the bosses in a raid should be from one another. Not everyone should be able to finish the As an example, let's use Battle of Dazar'alor This was widely regarded as an excellent raid Here we can see the distribution of progression This is where every guild who killed a boss For instance, Dan's guild killed the first in this column. As you can see, the largest portion of guilds Twice as many as actually finished the raid. The data tells us a story of the raid, you to the first three by how many people never The distribution drops hard after the first This distribution resembles an ideal raid; can see some bosses, but at a certain point This graph isn't perfect, a Kungen-type are clearing the raid. But it could be worse, compare this to the Normal mode represents everything that the It's a version of the raid intended for minimum of organization. We can see from the data that the vast majority it. This number is pathetic, it fails to distribute No matter your skill level you can expect A distribution like this, in the context of What does an objective-driven playstyle look can't provide an appropriate goal? Sure, some portion of this stack are well-serviced be disengaged by this because it's just What would the game turn into for those players content? A distribution like this is deeply unhealthy And it's the reason why WoW's early raids I mean, that's fucking Molten Core man, it's going to be eas- Uh, Dan, tag in. [Dan] A lot of ink has been spilled on why promised by those early evangelists. We won't relitigate that in too much detail In short, players are better, their internet runs on the final build of the expansion, than they ought to be. But the big one is the presence of paratext. It's not just that the content is 12 years that the solution has been widely disseminated Like, here's a taste of a 3-hour lecture the Burning Crusade. Please, I insist. "The testings of spell coefficients and a 2.4.3 TBC repack which is not an official Despite this almost all spell coefficients has been tested by multiple TBC-era theorycrafters. However, until an official pre-patch, beta, cannot be 100% sure the spell coefficients Yeah, we were always going to demolish Classic, This is not to say that a Sunwell or Ulduar players familiar with the game, just that The issue Classic faces is that the vast majority absurd pace, most within the first week or These are people who love the game dearly, could have imagined. What are they supposed to do to fill the time? The same thing as anyone else who has a deep running. Speed running has been an element of WoW for But before Classic WoW released, private servers would spin up and shut down so rapidly, that the entire game. Those players and their imitators applied Molten Core was cleared in just 6 days, down This was a big story in the Classic circles, in a meaningful way at launch. Over the life of Classic, more and more players these speedrun techniques. Maybe it was an organic process, people just a way to make them more engaging. But I would suggest that instrumental play by hierarchy. Remember, the elitist players who want to So they are naturally going to elevate means So speed runs practices became expert practices, cooks your brain. Classic ought to have been our salvation from demand the kind of optimization we've been Classic should rightly be the playground of aren't in any particular hurry to be anywhere. And yet, it's gone the other way, Wrath of of instrumental practices. Yes, it's not difficult, but the difficulty through this process perfectly. To be good at Classic is to learn and adopt To play the right class as the right race, get server first, get the Shadowmourne you In some cases, it seems really weird. It's like reliving high school. You're going to pick better electives, be when you've got the chance. At the launch of Classic, these practices By definition, it did not mean anything to you were in Wailing Caverns. Whatever. But after you quit Classic at level 47, these And these players established the practices This process of riding the curve to the greatest it's the rule. Again, look at these distributions. No child is being left behind here, if you're Returning to Wrath Classic in late 2022, there into their space. A walk around Dalaran showcases this, every in the best gear, the most prestigious vanity Things that were once status symbols are mundane. The best gear is not a symbol of exceptionalism, Having less than the best makes you less than Because if you aren't here, where else can This was made crystal clear during the launch gear requirements on groups for Utgarde Keep. If you wanted to experience Utgarde Keep, the first day of Wrath, a majority of groups Choice thought it was just his sweaty server, and the comment section is full of accounts "Madorc you are noy good geared enough for Wot? Is he joking?" Like our trinket from earlier, it wasn't There is a limit on how many times you can It was not about efficiency, it was about outgroup. The instrumental practices of Classic are they're the status quo. [Choice] It is no doubt possible for a casual but like Kristine Ask's guild back in 2009, There is no ivory tower for the best players this week. I would argue that casual players feel more an otherwise seamless flow of knowledgeable content. You are their Wallace, bumbling into their This is the dissonance of the marketing of Blizzard wants Classic to be inviting to returning Of course this is bullshit, Wrath was the you want to talk about mods influencing social The social experience of Classic is immensely Once you step beyond the leveling experience, that has been accepted as standard and performed It's disorientating to have ancient dungeons Stuff you were meant to learn 7 years ago BlizzLike pre-nerf Wrath server. There is a tangible sense that you are always I was so excited for Classic TBC, before I content was on the Best-in-Slot list, like the way into Sunwell. It wasn't that I needed it to kill Brutallus, behind. Classic pushes you into one of two archetypes, all this, and embrace the identity of a tourist. The hardcore players congregate on the same their servers starting to die and eventually realms, or endure their degrading server until drops the game altogether. In other words, it's just like fucking Retail. Despite the promise of a journey to a better environment as the main game. Only there is no border to delineate between For example, BDGG are a pseudo-professional play WoW and perform their best in the raid meet and our analyst team has been hard at for this upcoming event. One conversation that has not come up at all Blizzard has had years to separate leveling Our raiders need to get a certain number of and some are genuinely going to blitz it, But for our purposes, there is no need to get it done quickly. They are allowed to take their time, react goof off, whatever. Many will experience the leveling of Dragonflight I will. By contrast, check out this selection of the there is a whole industry built on selling The funniest thing I saw in Classic were these So, for context here, I joined a kind of middling and I really, I wanted to sort of strike that I wanted to do well and sort of skip the failure And within this guild were these guys, Team people on the server to get to level 70 in So I approach them out of sincere curiosity plan?" And they tell me that they want to do 60 to And that's a... that's a complicated number If you're a professional speedrunner, if name's Joker, if you're Joker and you doable number. But I picked these guys because they were didn't want them to have heard of Joker. So to see so much energy being funneled into to hear twenty hours out of them, I knew they'd To be honest. Not to be rude, but to hear twenty hours out I became obsessed with this because in a way have these guys pushed this further than I they made this crucial mistake." Seeing all this work juxtaposed with what to know what was going on. So I ask them "hey, have you been on the To which, to my astonishment, they said yes. They log onto the beta, turn in all the pre-quests, one and a half levels. Which is, that's a really good outcome, And so at the end of the first hour they're They then proceed to run dungeons for the hour they are at level 65. The half-way mark. At which point they're not going to do the log off. Because it logically follows having just done running will get them to level 70. Fuck. At times like this, people show you their I could have stopped them, I had multiple to see this train reach its destination. I was revealed to be an asshole. But them? They streamed the whole thing, and when the They were deeply miserable, but they didn't they pushed through it, they didn't sleep; But they got what they wanted - they were they even finished two raids before anyone They won. They had months to pick up on their mistake, to replicate the practices of speedrunners? Well, because the internet told them to. What else were they going to do? As players, the push for Classic was in the that was lost, and Blizzard played their part But it ultimately failed, because we brought We brought back the paratext industry that that trivialized content, and when we had our day to day experiences. Shout out to Rooster Juice and their 9:57 What a legend. [Dan] This discussion has been dominated by We have talked to death about WoW as a series But no one who came to WoW in its early years a series of social practices. The genre of virtual worlds are defined first We can see that in how Azeroth is regarded. It is considered the main character of WoW. Sure, we can make fun of the many self-inserts it is the World of Warcraft. [Metzen quote from LFG - just says Azeroth For many players in 2005, possibly even most that came with it, the day/night cycles, the to walk in one direction for two straight generated noise, but hand-crafted vistas, The world of Azeroth is beautiful. The raid experience is a different story. Raids in World of Warcraft can be severely machines. This was keenly true in the game's early and raid groups involved significantly more It was often necessary to lower graphical to make the game playable. Or if you were Choice, and 13, be completely second. Incredible. Obviously, Choice's performance was hindered Altering your graphical settings would improve game performance, a better experience, a more This line of thinking opens the doors to manipulating [Choice] A simple example would be something This quest involves collecting bottles that You can either search the grass carefully can open up the graphical settings, pull the all the grass in the environment, revealing Expert practice is to manipulate the world of instrumental play. The Potion of Inky Blackness is a cosmetic of the world from day to night. It has no overt value, but when used in specific certain visual effects, making them easier In Sepulcher of the First Ones, the potion The potion heavily alters the color palette look bad, but it's a bit shonky, and certainly for the space. A long-standing practice has involved using of the ingame camera to its maximum extent. At its most extreme, it was zoomed further 3, the player character reduced to a barely-identifiable This God's eye view, like in an RTS, allows In 2016, Blizzard tried to reign this in and As we have come to expect the players took response, and remained above all respectful Just kidding, it was a shitshow, obviously. It was among the biggest controversies of Blizzard, completely blindsided, eventually They limited the camera enough to annoy players like a World War 2 bomber pilot, but not enough It remains a contentious topic to this day. Blizzard's argument for a reduced camera They argued that players ought to feel attached within the world. The difference between this, and this. [Dan] It has been observed for a long time diegetic sound, but particularly the game's Raids rely on coordination, which is often To make sure communication is clear, players not off altogether. The 'auralscape' of the environment is it. Voice communication is one element, and then The game already features audio cues for critical trying to build a cohesive, subtle, thematic But if you need to make snap decisions, maybe wilhelm scream. In the absolute top Mythic Keystones, the are used to the fullest possible extent. [Cacophony of audio alerts] That cacophony, that's the soundtrack of That's the music of victory. [Gunshot noises] What's really important to note is that the game itself. It's almost perverse the degree to which product, has been functionally erased from shut off in 2007 and never restored. All of this is about tearing down the original it as a means of success. Josh Keaton's performance as Anduin Wyrnn old software engineer from Montana coordinate of zombies. [Raid leader] Everyone needs to hard focus lust, so.. [Choice] And with all of this established, Players make World of Warcraft look fucking Instrumental play values clarity, but only It's easy for this conversation to get caught But these interfaces are not the product of of instrumental practices. So let's go straight for the jugular and of what we're talking about. Wrought Chaos was a pretty nuanced ability of these arrows that telegraphed an upcoming Clarity of the environment was incentivised. You can see that in how Limit positions themselves what is going on, even through a kind of busy There was another solution though, and it Players used a WeakAura that would attempt 2 dimensional vectors. It's pretty accurate, but not really. As a means of trivializing the mechanic, it It is also objectively awful to look at. There's no personal preference argument The Hellfire Citadel Archimonde encounter but players pushed it completely over the Mythic Archimonde is a sincerely ugly fight through this lens, this mess. Alex Golub called this the process of 'decomposing And we've made an art form of it. In context, Golub is using the term 'decomposing' of the world. But the imagery of decomposing, of decay, There is no conspiracy, no central authority, unrelenting. For almost twenty years, Azeroth has been seems just... natural. [Dan] And if we could roll the credits there, If only it were that simple. The relationship between instrumental play We are far from the first to observe these A common solution put forward is to heavily AddOn support. Despite everything, that's not a solution Mods offer unparalleled value to the consumer. There is a reason they were, and remain, so Mod support is not solely this engine of chaos of empowering users. For that reason, the application of mods spans The Tournament of Ages, the charity roleplay of AddOns. Disability is an enormous subject that is to handle it. For what it's worth, Choice doesn't like are cooked. He is very much reliant on AddOns to play this type of conversation. Mods offer means of accessibility that are need, to a degree developers can never practically MDT, an incredibly complex mod that allows has dramatically altered the way that dungeons tools and language to communicate complex, Arguably this whole process of negotiation, has resulted in more replayable, engaging, Mods are ultimately an expression of our own Instrumental play, the act of attempting to It's not a puzzle box, but an expression in which that manifests. For all the drama that can be wrung from Golub's mods or those who use them. Instead, Golub sees this as evidence that their fiction, but from their reality. World of Warcraft is the product of the emergent practices go a huge way toward defining how To lay the blame at the feet of, just, players be improved if only Microsoft's Activision-Blizzard-King its creative vision. Mm. Not loving that. World of Warcraft is an emergent culture that if you want to be romantic. Modern World of Warcraft is a mess in a way It is full of contradiction and hypocrisy, payment in full. Certain anthropologists feared that WoW's as a site for cultural study, that incentivising But this feels plenty authentic to me. Golub suggests that in the face of digital world, especially as the idea is posed in in one are true while experiences in the other happens online it's not real. This framing neglects to encompass the very with them all their human attributes, their Virtual spaces are not apart from the world suggests a much tamer distinction between the physical to a mere subset of reality. "The key feature of the actual world which to become compelling is not its visual and forum in which we give our lives meaning by others. Worlds become real when we care about them,