Listen closely or you might not hear It's a little more than a whisper. But in a few moments, into one of the grandest statements The first note is so low in the contrabassoon that it's almost like some kind of serpent at the bottom of the ocean This ambiguous opening one of his darkest it's murky and dark and it's like, what is this The year is 1929. Ravel had just returned from a triumphant tour of the United States, with the infectious energy of jazz one of the highlights of his trip and George was just lavish in his praise And Ravel refused, as he said, with your talent and your instincts, You'd only end up writing bad Ravel. upon returning to Europe, the enduring shadow of World War I, European life, Ravel and his music Ravel's world was torn and new inspiration And in the midst of all this, Ravel Ravel was tasked with writing a concerto, for Paul Wittgenstein, a pianist it was certainly a challenge, to push the limits of Little did he know that And unfortunately, I don't understand. Is it modern? although Wittgenstein was a capable performer and has contributed He struggled a lot with this piece, and the emotional complexity. He even went so far as to make something which absolutely infuriated was extremely precise and needed it was clear that this concerto one that could tackle its technical and determination, Thankfully, years such a pianist would take on this piece, emotional power that had been Since then, many incredible pianists but this recording is still in many ways, But let's get back to that in a moment. In order to understand what makes the Left we need to start by comparing it I'm joined today by Gwendolyn Mok, an expert on Ravel, who has recorded Mok has some fabulous lessons on Debussy which is the platform Be sure to check the link in the description below and be sure to take your left on this video. without further It's pretty wild to imagine that Ravel's Left Hand at about the same time as his Concerto Remember that nearly inaudible opening Well, let's compare that to the opening He's trying to lead you down I'm going to lead you down the path I always laugh because I'm listening the volume in the beginning, This is probably one of the reasons that Wittgenstein struggled It probably just wasn't This level of darkness and intensity in Ravel's music to this point. of course, none of Ravel's music is easy, and he had gotten quite close But the Left hand concerto the Left Hand Concerto really mimics when you think of Brahms Concerto, was those concertos are designed where as the divertissement and it's written for reduced orchestra not only that, but the technical demands hand writing far exceed piano commissions. Ravel treats He doesn't think of Wittgenstein's disability like a limitation, but rather an opportunity for innovation. There are many places in the Left Hand is even more virtuosic major two handed concerto. Ravel Piano Concerto for the left hand is METAL! it almost has a kind of Brahmsian quality. There's something really thick about it. the pianist is almost fighting against, It's it's And in Brahms you know it's like titanic, what you have to do, that comes even close to matching Ravel's Interestingly enough, But even then, Wittgenstein Strauss's first attempt a lot about his perfectionism It would take years for a pianist to finally come along and play this piece It makes sense that Ravel's Left Hand Concerto would resonate way that Francois plays. The opening of this piece born in 1924, Samson was just as chaotic He was known for his rebellious spirit, at the Paris Conservatoire, Marguerite Long, who found his behavior it's rumored that he was the only student and he wore this like a badge of honor. Bundle up... It's awfully cold outside. He had that dark quality in his life. he lived on the edge. He was an excessive drinker, an alcoholic. his life was cut short You know, he never took care of himself. that rebellious spirit It was unpredictable, but always deeply felt and deeply musical. Francois's was playing is full of power. But it's not just raw intensity. It's often a really intricate interplay his rhythmic idiosyncrasies in particular For example, in his performance or in Tombeau de Couperin. that daring ness came through in this performance of this Left Hand It's explosive. It's direct. It's technically brilliant. And yet it's so full of deep, dark, wide emotion. I almost feel like you have to have or a demonic quality in you as a person because it is like a struggle, is trying to struggle against something. Francoise Improvisatory approach the way that it was inspired by Ravel's time in the United States for example, just a little bit But Francois's performance of the final cadenza thinking about the larger lines Francois builds and so intentionally as though on the edge of falling apart, this is something that my teacher at me was that, it's really important not to play Ravel's music deliver the goods with a little more that's how Francois delivered and he was playful and mischievous and all of that, It's this combination of precision that makes Francois's playing so what can we as pianists and piano students Performance of the Ravel Left Hand in terms of my approach to teaching, there's a little distance between myself It's not that I'm playing it but I try not to allow myself it gives the audience and the listener to sort of listen without being persuaded You can't just slap that pedal down. So your technique has to be really to teach or to start on your own rest assured, if you start from the Ravel's Left Hand Concerto and Samson Like Francois's life, but marked with such power and intensity There's such a sense of darkness Francoise performance, they are all giving everything And I think the piece demands It's also important to remember that He suffered a serious head injury in 1932, neurological symptoms to write or even to communicate. And he ultimately died in 1937. Hearing this piece makes me wonder if he had lived for another ten years. And yet that kind of unreal promise is so incredibly magical This is a work borne of the shadow of war, It stands as one of the most singular and This is the final statement from a brilliant mind that will forever And Samson Francois, incredible recording of incredible pianists Thanks so much for joining us today. this is one of my personal favorite So it was really fun to share it What is your favorite Samson or what is if it's not Francois, your favorite performance Because there are a lot And don't forget to check out Tonebase where Gwendolyn Mok has some fabulous, and we'll have some new ones Be sure to also check out that's already here on YouTube, between the compositional And if you haven't done so already, be sure to like this video I'm Robert Fleitz from Tonebase