I am finally doing a much requested challenge in 12 races. And that means no repeats, I have to restart. [laughs] let's go this is going to be so so we're going to do a little bit of bagging here know what's nice is, doesn't really matter. Like it later, it's totally fine [laughs] okay well I I need to get rid of this before the item set, plant sometimes is a good item. Okay this may be just gonna go. Nice! Nice! Is someone looking out what the! I have a star in 2nd! I'm going to try squish did I actually squish? Yes! Let's go! Okay huge! So it could get stolen for sure, but I think with it. I could activate it earlier I guess, just that! All right pretty solid first place right Okay, so we're starting with the 1st place it's I have that out of the way. All right we have a This is where it starts to get interesting cuz I get 1st place again, but like you know, avoiding placement will do, so there's pretty much a right here, but I have to start thinking about like I think 2nd place is probably going to be But there are other things I have to think about of the middle spots? I don't know. Okay, let's to try my best to actually make it to 2nd place I Okay I I'm really not good at that shortcut by don't back your boomerang. I'm going to play very if I'm going to get a top placement, and if because I can just get a lower placement and made that that was so close, I actually wasn't if I can maintain this, then we have such a good way did you fall off? Did you hit the wall what to not turn my brain off and remember that like this is a pretty good defense for first place. Mmm me! That red shell being thrown at me [laughs] was so what we're going to do is get to the finish win that's perfect. I might get 3rd, I still would best spot I can get at this point nooo it was it worked and it got 7th. You know what? That's are going to be the toughest ones to get because I'm fine getting 7th right now. The reason that I choosing Mario got me 1st place so I was like this I think this is a good track for the challenge tracks because it's impossible to come back if you the placements, and that's actually good for me placement. Oh nice! Let's drop that right there, place. Oh mushroom away, those triple bananas this that's nice! Oh no oh okay okay, I couldn't so I just kind of wanted to uh make sure I was for I forgot to go for the double orange mini is bad! Get rid of your trail item, oh wait! That this is really bad, this was all my fault too, I get a bad placement and I'm still making progress challenge, like the first few races just like ah it still helps me. Just a a bad placement I don't get better than 7th, and this is a good result. Obviously I'm okay with all this at the start, but bit of strategy here for getting 12th place, always going to have that many people in the room, to get the placement that you want. But, based on very little time given to me to like change which makes me think that there should be a lot means that if anyone leaves, we should still have for the end, okay we're going to get rid of your make it in here with the piranha plant that's Get those coins so no one else can. Okay let's see not too bad. I mean I think saving the golden on this track and it's like bagging is so good on is not too helpful like I'm already in 6th. All this placement I don't want to aim for a middle cuz I think it's going to be really tough on this be cool so I'm aiming there first but, honestly I see what happens here oh wait go for fourth go for good! I was so scared of accidentally getting I wanted to wait at the line to pick exactly what and I did explain why I think this may be a good this, totally okay with this let's go up to the their item, so they definitely wouldn't have a red Also my combo, I tried to get to Yoshi Teddy so I just decided to pick something with the same I think last time this Birdo had a gigantic front, I can pretty reliably lose to this Birdo breakaway again, very good! I'm so glad I already with such a good player in the room. Okay well I was so risky! Oh no I didn't- ah it's the same no excuse I just didn't see it. Okay I still but I would love a mushroom now. I hit the button- just get 12th this race [laughs] like I have no race yep! Well if I can get 11th obviously maybe that literally doesn't help. This gold is not that at some point, I need to focus harder if City, is one of my worst tracks. So maybe like to go for 12th on this one. I don't want to be we're doing all right here 4th but I already oh! But 2nd? No! I fire balled myself! Okay I right now. Get these, nice! Okay I didn't dodge this bullet too late, cuz like for example if I what placement is going to get for me [laughs] so decide later with this golden. Oh whoops whoops there's no way I get 2nd right? Yeah there's we're just going to wait here, get 6th or 7th, No! I forgot about 7th! Ugh I realized it way too you Neo Bowser City is one of my worst tracks. I the challenge. The challenge is just to get 12 without restarting the challenge because, I didn't where I got 7th right? So all I need to do, is like I I've had four of these completed now, and 7 in four consecutive races, so, that works, I just need to dodge those four numbers now. I've been trying so long for a second and it just Okay well I don't have 3rd yet either so 3rd is 2nd place [Music] okay probably not getting 2nd, want to accidentally get 4th or 5th, so just going it is. Unless something happens- what happened go! You know what? Second is one of the more off to a great start again. Anything can happen on about the ending [laughs] cuz if the ending is a a boost panel nearby, I don't know how many tracks good for me, cuz I can just wait near the boost I don't have a mushroom. Because I haven't had to but holding a mushroom right at the end, would be to mushroom in order to pick which spot I get here they don't know I have fire [Music] right got somebody? Oh they mushroomed! They dodged the close first place messed up! I messed up a bit too are you doing? Okay that's [laughs] just lag. Soft that truck. What?! What was that? Were you trying just mess up and hit the car that was so funny. think I can go inside the truck there and play it even if I see a blue shell, I don't know if it's- but I can try to hit people. I think I got actually get anybody. This red shell is for the not repeat a position, I'm about to get 7th let's to predict at the end, I almost messed that up and so it's so scary at the end. So we are halfway the 12 positions, but that doesn't mean I'm the first half is easier than the second half, every single race. And I got hit here, so we're cycle was wrong, no coins for me, that's great. get 12th here that's actually fine. That's the to perform well every single race, you can take and if it doesn't work out, it's fine, you just of tries [laughs] you get 12 tries to do each one. There's a bullet extension coming up soon I have really possible I'm just going to see what kind there, I don't know zero coins is it even going nice nice get me the item [laughs] it took me from ladies and gentlemen. Okay so we're in 10th, sure not to duplicate 11th. I think I can get 7th again?! What happened to everybody?! I was so I'm on King Buu cuz now I'm on serious mode but I the position counter did say 7th for a split I wasn't looking at that exact moment. I wasn't have is 7th and 8th, I have nothing else. Because 7th so everything from there and before doesn't here, we grab these coins, this is the best course actually would have hit me. Okay and then we switch back to Mario if I want to get first I don't know the best spot to use this bullet on shortcut right- okay [laughs] all right, wow that well you go for two mini turbos there with Yoshi, and we are just not making it up, I swear shock hasn't happened though and I'm still in But if I can get dodge items here, since the shock Okay don't get 7th, don't get 7th... We got 9th. one of my better tracks, but this is 200cc. you just the game gives you whatever the game figure out this shortcut on 200cc [Music] yep yep! clearly no one else does either I'm still in a decent lines there, I mean I don't know if they're really ask for at my level of 200cc whoa this is hop hop and we mushroom! [Music] [laughs] okay couldn't hit me. No what?! The cannon slowed me 200 knowledge, holy! I didn't know about that, I Okay um, how do we deal with- we just don't use have here. Okay and then we we take it real slow, good! Person's getting hit nice nice we're getting a deserved 3rd place! I feel like I've been tilted place twice, I've already restarted the challenge the challenge twice. Oh! Barely dodged it this yep! But I wanted the coins you know I'm playing do it but I knew if they tried to snipe me I'm going to hold this out. They're aim- no! I but then I was thrown into a confined space and it place, that would be totally fine. Slow Down slow matter because the first race was 8th, in in in an 8th, it's just at the end instead of at the for that, that's that's totally fine whatever. supposed to be done, but this definitely makes it bad for me. What? I did not hit that. Are you glitched through that? You never glitch in this and the double item, and then we're going to go importance right now, small anyway I just need the took the shortcut terribly twice in a row, and I'm quite make it this time oops. Oh no there's a red how did that happen? I could win. Oh no... Oh the whole race really, but second place is great. sense that Luigi would be able to get first place. save this as defense, hold this mushroom all the here. But like if I change there, no guarantee Okay this is fine, item coming up right away. Oh around it. No! I couldn't do anything [laughs] going to get our coins up now, there's no way I'm last place [Music] okay, I have 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 are that's the best thing I can go for. Okay well I No 10th, we're getting 10th, that's good that's to avoid are in a cluster, I think that's going though which is 4, 5, 6 are not done, and they're the middle of the pack where you're not guaranteed trick at the end, and oh let's just throw that. 4th, 5th, and 6th and I didn't mean to save it and it's just not working. It's just sending me that, which is so unfortunate. Cuz what does that I just can't even do well if I try? I'm going to hoping for lucky items here that that that's all yes! I think I got them, that's perfect! I just main threat to me at the moment. This person is has a red shell okay Shy Guy has a red shell. items that's really bad [Music] I got them both! armor let's go! Okay, that race was so doomed from but I will take it. I am allowed to get 4th, it a go. Obviously I'm still going to try and be the best strategy? Who knows who knows? We we'll um and we'll just see what happens. Obviously not at the front, so that I'm in it to try and get 4th like reverse bagging, trying to get bad spot, a bad spot right at the end, that draft is killer it's fine I have a super horn. I just don't want main problem right here that I'm trying to avoid that's the other problem. If it's a very front whole time, but with this one I don't know what's be right on the line waiting to try and get 4th, there's three different position there that are chance this race, honestly if I mess this up, silver platter for me this- okay we have another frames okay barely dodged that car. Oh that banana that was going to be really tough to dodge. Just people but we're only three people up here I want right behind us, I may have misplayed this with good no mushroom [Music] yes yes! 4th place okay This is one of the last tracks I wanted to play everyone unpredictably finishes at the exact annoying. I mean there may be some big gaps, but or the very front but not the middle. I feel like taking the shortcut, and I'll have no clue what this, and hope that the bagging works horribly for cuz this is one of the best bagging tracks in the I can like hold uh hold a middle spot. Okay we more person here, up here front running with us, That means, I the best I can guarantee is fourth, end, which is a tall order which that is probably it clearly is going to be me. Oh Waluigi coming seems like. No! Right after boxes okay everyone's like, no shock the entire race but what are the gets so far behind. Okay, oh no! Okay, if I didn't mushroom the whole way. No! I didn't think I was of 5th or 6th, then we just go for 11th or 12th, at 6th just kidding. Whoa whoa no there there is don't mushroom don't mushroom, what am I getting? out if I was in 5th or 6th, how am I going to is where the challenge gets really spicy, because problem, I really didn't want this track, of all the one I didn't want the most. Because besides the end, and it's like it's hard to keep track of because of the mobius strip. And it's a glider at can't, unless I get off the glider. But if I get else is, you see the problem? So I'm going to have out and I just go for 11th or like 12th if I can't here. I have to really keep track of the mini map, bit of a bagging track if there's no shock though, here the whole time. But if I can send anyone else That's fine that's fine! This track, I'm totally bumped during invincibility frames that was crazy! this is like, this is 11th place territory at get 11th. I mean I'm still going to try to take never mind. Not getting that mini turbo. I'm in I'm in, I'm just gonna wait. Oh now I'm in 11th to tell by the mini map [laughs] I thought I to the wire here, I'm not sure I wanted this track and yeah so trying to get exactly 5th is gonna having a middle spot be one of the last ones I um cuz everyone's so clustered together it's but it is what it is. Um on the bright side, if I can at least get 12th which obviously I can room. Oh no! I don't know if I genuinely failed Waluigi player. I do not want to be in a position like what [laughs] are the odds of that. It's and then to like have to get it on the very last actually pretty good, I'm not going to chain triple greens right there. We're going to take it's going to be hard to pass 5thplace right now. them I'm just going to threaten them here. Okay I believe that worked [Music] I have a strategy here yeah this isn't working out [laughs] this is not had a really good chance there. All right so we're on the very last race, I had such a good shot here Dash! The reason I picked this track is because what placement you're in, and you're pretty much to see, what my spot is at the end, and be able and then be able to figure it out based on that. saving this mushroom for the shortcut. Oh bad! green disappeared [Music] I don't know what I'm The slight grass hit actually helped. [Music] way I think I trailed them, but there's a blue bad! We're in 3rd dodge that, wow! That could anger I get it. No no no no no no [Music] two Yes! I actually did it! [breathing heavily] you don't know cuz the the position counter