Well hello and welcome to the Gospel of John, entitled &quot;Jesus: The God/ I'm happy that you're taking this class, John. So I encourage you if you have your Bibles, I encourage you to open chapter one, and we'll be taking a look the text itself, I want to start with introductory material about Gospel of John is named after and there is a lot of internal and external the author of this book. So I'm not going defending the idea that John the apostle have a good profile of this man, John, was the son of a wealthy fisherman, one. He had a brother named James, not but another man whose name was James, we was close to Jesus, part of his Transfiguration and it is said that chapter 21 mentions these things. His impatient, he was at times intolerant, we verse 54. We also find out near the end entrusted Mary, his earthly mother to John, to John's care. And we also know that John worked with Peter in Jerusalem at the that in Acts particular period, not necessarily period who mentioned John in their more information historically about John; a bishop of Ephesus, tells us something about John, it tells us, home and his work was in Ephesus. After had a great impact on him and a great wrote this gospel, the Gospel of John, epistles around the Year 80 AD. He was by the Roman emperor Domitian around 94 of Revelation. We know that John died a reign of Trajan near the year 100 and much about a the gospel itself. I want to move on now particular gospel, after all we have Why another one? Well, the reason for that specific purpose for writing his gospel. Jewish person in mind in order to show Jewish Messiah, the Jewish king, that they Mark and Luke have Gentiles in mind in of nations that the nations longed for. between Jew and Gentile had disappeared, Jerusalem and the temple in 70 AD and there was a period of false doctrine Gnosticism, challenging the claims of show Jesus as the Son of God and that Him and Him alone, so that's his main Jesus Christ. summarized in John chapter 20 verses 30 can read along or perhaps look at passage in a moment. John chapter &quot;Therefore many other signs Jesus also disciples, which are not but these have been written so that you Son of God; and that believing you may the entire book of John, complete gospel and I want you to think I have two daughters and I remember when they were young girls; take strand, kind of braid them together John is doing here with three trains of first train, the first strand, is the fact well as the divine Son of God. So establishes with his record. The second that some people began to believe in gives evidence and actually believe in Jesus and how strand. Then the third strand is the And so these themes are not presented in gospel. It's not as if you've got ten the Son of God, ten chapters presenting of the chapters showing people who don't approach, he weaves all three of these showing Jesus as the Son of God, disbelieve, all in the same narrative to John's Gospel describes the object of should be considered as such, the that He experienced, and then John also Jesus and also the rise of disbelief and narrative, all in the same book. And so these three themes, the outline So let's look at the outline of this first part of the book is called the tonight. That's chapter 1 verses 1 to 18. In this opening section John introduces Jesus you wish, he traces Jesus' existence incarnation as a human being. Second part divinity through ministry, chapter 1 50. Now this next large section of the strands of episodes of belief and ministry; so many chapters describing His ministry and how some people believed and others miracles, again with alternating next section is the proof of Jesus' resurrection, that's chapter thirteen one the final chapters, John uses the same responses of belief and disbelief, but backdrop of His final days as He is crucified, buried and then resurrected. So gospel, Jesus himself and who He was is believing and unbelieving responses from theme, if you know it ahead of we work our way through chapter by themes come up each time. So to do during this session in Chapter 1. chapter 1 and begin our study of the what is called the prologue because it His actions, but rather describes Jesus which makes John's Gospel unique in that describes this period of time. So this is begins with a statement clearly the other three gospel writers allow the they present in the Gospels. In other Jesus in His life and what He does is that the reader will come to a did this, He resurrected from John turns this around. He starts with a begins with that and then he adds the was a certain concept of the idea of the &quot;logos&quot; in the Greek that existed at that would use the term &quot;the word,&quot; for them it was something to be understood and put respected. When a writer used the was revelation from God. The Gentiles on that term in written form represented would say today. To be in accord with the accord with the power was to have a Gentiles both used the term &quot;the word&quot; to their culture and to their thinking. So full meaning of this concept is He's the Word, He's the Logos, He is the and to Gentiles and bringing together meant. So let's start in chapter 1 verse stop right there. &quot;In the beginning,&quot; this dimension that existed before the created, John takes the reader to that beginning of time and not looking backwards to prehistory; before created. So he says, &quot;In the beginning was Jesus, so that's where we begin, that's the Word,&quot; a title for Jesus. The Jews Gentiles would read a force or a power. different than the Jews were thinking were thinking was that the Word was beginning was the Word.&quot; John uses Word reflection of what's in your heart and and so this opening title for Jesus expression of the mind of God in human the power is realized, Jesus is what is the force, the power; significant both for &quot;In the beginning was the Word and the not a power coming from God as in a no, Jesus as a person coexisting with is getting at here. And then he Very significant. The Word was God. God never say and the Word was a god, and violate his monotheistic beliefs, to him first verse John asks here. So to the question, who is the Word? why is the Word God? Why is the Word before time, it coexists with So John therefore gives substance to the the Jews or the Gentiles had thought at is Almighty God. In the Gospel of John Gospel of John, God and the Word are verse two we read the following, &quot;He So once having made the connection to connect Jesus with the Word. He a personal pronoun &quot;He&quot; to connect Jesus the Word and ultimately to God. Let me explain. If A) God equals B) Word equals C) Jesus. That's his approach to Word are one. Jesus and the Word are one, So in the next verse he's going to says, &quot;All things came into being through being that has come into being.&quot; So the Jews God's word. For example, in the book of there be light,'&quot; and light appeared. God literally spoke the creation into existence. Now the Gentiles also saw the power of the force verse John is connecting the Word to the Jesus one. Now here's the point, the idea is the agent of creation. This teaching is Colossians 1 verse 16. Paul says, &quot;For by things were created both in the heaven going, working our way through this passage. It says, &quot;In Him was life, and the life was darkness, and the darkness did not bridge from divinity to humanity in eternity; number two, the Word is Jesus Jesus is the life bringing light into earthly ministry. He says Jesus is the brings light. Light refers to the truth with anything true but reveals the final about salvation. So John briefly explains at the beginning of his gospel what happens at Jesus brings the truth, but the truth is Verses 6 to 8, it says, &quot;There came a man came as a witness, to testify about the believe through him. He was not the Light, And so in these three verses John figures in Christ's ministry He's going to later describe John's work in simply summarizes John the Baptist's a witness. Now according to scripture he for the coming of Christ or the coming The majority of John's ministry was to coming, that's why he was there, he Messiah to the people of that time. In Baptist began to directly point to the in his preaching, but he'd physically do by and says, 'there's the Lamb of And so with his death most of the follow Jesus and so that's why John mentions John the Baptist early on in his gospel. He begins before history, God are one in the same, and then he introduced the idea, who introduced the Jesus, this God/Man was going to walk Verse 9, it says, &quot;There was the true Light every man. He was in the world, and the did not know Him. He came into His own, receive Him.&quot; So in this passage John briefly in verse 5. here in these verses. Number one, Jesus capability to bring every person into he means by He brought the light. The who God is and what God wants. Jesus earth. Number two, even with this ability the world which He created, remember at the through Him and so the Word made flesh, truth and yet even with the power to reject him. John says that. So remember gospel what's going to happen at the end, that are not going to believe. And then that he had especially blessed were accept Him and so in verse 12-13 it says, gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of will of God.&quot; And so this is the gospel in here he doesn't explain a kind of a bird's-eye view of what For those who received, meaning for those into spiritual beings, not created by spiritual beings created by the power of later in the gospel. For now he merely Him and some accepted Him and for those they would become a new creation; In verse 14, he says, &quot;And the Word became here? First there's God, then God, then is God, and the world is created through next step, he says, &quot;And the Word became glory, as of the only begotten from truth.&quot; So the Word becoming flesh is what being the same as the Word, that as Jesus, that combination to Jesus why we say this series or this because throughout the gospel John is God/Man. So in a few words John proclaims Now he speaks of his own experience of says, &quot;We,&quot; speaking of the apostles, himself, experienced this glory. What's the glory? Man, a kind of glory that only the Son, and the substance of His glory, in other Him glorious? And John says His godly but the divinity just poured out of Him. &quot;Of grace and truth,&quot; that's the mind of God &quot;the only begotten from the Father.&quot; Now who don't believe, and others become sons us from sin and adopts us into His adoption, but here John says Jesus is a what only begotten means, He's the only having an identical nature from God. And the incredible presence that Jesus had terrible, terrible sin. We keep moving says, &quot;John testified about Him and out, comes after me has a higher rank than I, to reinforce this idea of the impact of reaches back and he talks about John the even John the Baptist in his witness preeminent position of the One who was says 'the One to come was before' and yet says that Jesus came before him, Messiah. So John the Baptist knew and Again the implication is that their their rejection was a grave sin because coming from a credible source, John the Baptist. Verse 16, we're almost near the end, he received, and grace upon grace.&quot; Jesus is this reason the Word is completely full, supply of truth and grace coming from God, all the same thing. You cannot coming from it, just like you cannot use the open air. Could you actually amount of air that exists? No, well you amount of grace and truth that Jesus, the breathe in God's grace and truth through this comparison here. Verse 17, he says, grace and truth were So Moses received the law which truth to come in the future, Hebrews given to him by God, but Jesus is the contained in the law. The law fulfillment of the promises. a picture of an item that you've ordered see a picture of it, and then you finally one is the promise of the thing to come, the actual thing itself. So one is New Testament. And then finally in verse in this session, he says, &quot;No one has seen who is in the bosom of the Father, he has God, even Moses spoke directly Jesus, John says, the God/Man, gives us an now. He is able to do this because of His same nature and being part of the relate to man what He knows about God being Himself, part of the Godhead. So those are the first eighteen. It's quite a bit, we've rushed material a lot of ideas here, but summarize here what we've lesson. So John begins his gospel by eyes he has experienced God taking on a intimate experience and knowledge of His realm, He transferred calls truth or light, this experience he part men rejected this knowledge, lists three witnesses that proclaimed not believed. Witness number one, John the Witness number two, Jesus Himself and his witness number three, John the apostle and did. And so with the prologue John wish, these three strands, of his gospel reaction of belief by some, and the many, and he weaves these three strands throughout his gospel and you'll see of John in our next lesson. Well, that's through this challenging first portion. I number two as we continue in the Gospel Mazzalongo and you are watching