- Today we're talking about Now, you might think, I might skip this one.&quot; But please don't. It's super important. Not taking care of this stuff and there are some significant downsides. At best, you're gonna make and what a waste if you've to put them into dirty or the brews taste harsh and bitter. That's not okay. But maintenance, perhaps: Now, it might be that your dream setup. You wanna keep that running or it might be on your and you might be thinking at some point, &quot;Well, I'll sell this and upgrade later.&quot; If you wanna sell it for decent money, it needs to be well maintained, and that's what we're gonna cover today. And I will say read the manual. Most manufacturers will cover so please do read the manual. They're all for free online as PDFs. You can just search and 'manual' and 'PDF'. It'll be there somewhere, and we felt a little bit like there wasn't quite enough. And so we actually approached with extra questions, and we'll try and give you the tips, the tricks, the essential stuff to keep your kit tasting We're gonna cover four categories The first up will be espresso machines, the most expensive, perhaps the most deserving of maintenance of all the kit that you'll buy. Then we'll cover coffee Then we'll talk about coffee brewers, little batch brewers, They need a little bit And we'll finish with a few little other bits and that may benefit from a little Let's start with espresso machines. I should disclose, my brain might be slightly broken by my time spent in the coffee industry, thinking about cleanliness in That is a different world. If you're doing 500 drinks a day, the machines are gonna need Cleanliness is so important, and so I'm kind of a bit I think, as a result of that. Let's ignore for now the and their magnetic and let's focus on things that the group head in here. Starting with a portafilter, A portafilter like this, obviously, your basket If you're struggling to get you can always just use a little teaspoon, wedge in here, and it will just pop out. Keep this basket nice and There's no reason not Obviously, every time you pull a shot, the inside should be A lot of people prefer what where the bottom of this because there's less to clean. The inside of this should sort of pass what I would call the finger test where you should rub your look at it, and not be If what has come off here is an accumulation of old you're not cleaning frequently enough, I would say a little soap, a little dish soap is a sponge or a sort of soft scour. Make sure anything that's in But generally, anytime I'm I just wanna get rid of anything in there. If I leave it, and I and the machine is hot, any retained liquid evaporate out, and and that will get more and I just want to get rid of it. If you've gotten to the point where things have gone quite wrong, and it's accumulated a then, yes, under those circumstances, I'd say it's okay to give this a soak. Get some very hot water, dissolve a teaspoon of and suspend it, only sort Don't get your handle in there, obviously, and let it soak for an hour or overnight, and then it will come off more easily, any sort of retained dirt, but keep this beautiful and clean. Think of it as a frying pan. You wanna cook, every in a fresh, clean frying pan, not one that still has yesterday's dinner remnants inside it. Now let's talk about group heads. In almost all machines, there's gonna be a shower screen up here that disperses water over the coffee. Taking that down My minimum frequency for would be every week. I see no reason not to take it down more frequently than that Again, it should pass the sort of ick test where you take it down and you shouldn't be This one has a little Other machines have a Some have bolts. You can get tools to help drop 'em down. Now, in some machines, In some, there'll be a block too. So we'll take that screw out there. This the shower screen, and coffee tends to You can see in this one there's We let it build up. This, to me, would definitely this amount of ground coffee here. It would be adding bitterness and I would want to get rid of it, and my cleaning schedule is not frequent enough for my taste if I'm seeing this much Things like puck screens slow around shower screens, but ultimately it's so little work and it's so easy to take give it a scrub, clean it up. Again, a little bit of dish soap is fine. Rinse it out completely. Some machines may have dispersion blocks. Again, you can see a little bit of coffee is accumulating on here slowly. It sort of passes my disgusted test, but I wouldn't want any more coffee accumulated on this before it was cleaned. When these are down, you and just wipe clean the where the water's coming from. Again, coffee will slowly accumulate here. It's pretty easy to clean off. And again, it's about to clean the gasket that's up there too. Now it's time to talk about back flushing. And before we get into it, we need to get technical and talk about the way A lot of espresso machines a solenoid valve on them or a three-way valve more accurately. One way is the water so your hot fresh water Another sort of route for and the third route is to the waste. When the machine is in a normal and so water cannot leave the boiler, but the tube from the coffee to the waste is kind of open as a pathway. When you brew, it closes and opens the one from the boiler, so water flows from the Espresso brewing happens under pressure. And at the end of a shot, that pressure is released It can go back up the way it came. It gets stopped by the stopper so it can't go into the boiler, but it can go then down to the waste. This means at the end of some let's call it coffee water gets shot up inside the machine through a tube that's very and it will deposit some coffee solubles on that little tube that goes It's the kind of two-way Some machines have very or relatively long, some much shorter. But either way, when this is the part of the machine that you're primarily worrying about. Everything else, the screen, you should have already cleaned. How dirty this gets depends and so therefore how depends on those factors too. Again, for me, as a bare Espresso machine cleaner You don't need very much to do a good job, and it's simpler and easy to use, and it's an investment of a The rewards are there. A machine cannot be too clean. It very easily can be too dirty. You can mitigate the need for cleaning by always flushing the group head as soon as you've finished pulling a shot. the shot stops and that pressure sends that coffee water Immediately take your That will bring clean water through and drag out a lot of that Now, this is particularly important under one specific circumstance, which is you've pulled a shot we call it choking, almost, and you stopped it to kind of try again, change your grind setting, In those circumstances, the liquid that you've is significantly stronger. It's got way more soluble material in it than the end of a normal espresso where that water is relatively weak. Just flush it out as soon as you can and a good five second flush is fine to prevent that accumulation. Now let's talk about maintenance, about investing a little to get some great results. Well, it makes me think of something, and I'll tell you about for this video sponsor, Now, Trainwell is a fitness app that pairs you one-on-one with your own personal fitness coach. You might have known them as CoPilot. I'll explain the name change in a minute. I've been using it for about a year now, and the results for me It's not that I'm stronger than before, that my body composition has improved or even that my VO2 max has increased. And yes, I did check that. It's that my goal was to make exercise a regular and sustainable and that's happened. I really look forward to exercising. It's not a chore. It's a highlight of my day. And I think Trainwell has Firstly, accountability. There's a real person. As part of the name change, they don't wanna associate with kind of AI, chatbot, copilot services. This is a real person, a real and actually, at the start, where you introduce talk about how you wanna train, what you wanna do, what your goals are, and everything's set up from there. So being accountable to a Two, flexibility. My schedule is frankly a mess, and this works around my schedule, not around my trainer's schedule. And three, customization. What I was interested in focusing I'm not stuck with a program I This evolves because there is I wanted to add in some running with a twist of using minimalist shoes. Well, Celina has been and gave me great advice to get started. If you wanna check it out, then use the link in the You can get a 14-day free trial of your own personal fitness coach. Thank you again to Trainwell To clean properly, again, think about what you're actually doing. I'm kinda brand agnostic around I use Urnex quite often, There's a bunch of other brands out there. I don't like the tablets because I find the dose to be too high and a kind of waste of detergent. If you're cleaning frequently, tiny amount is really enough. This should last you a very long time. If you think about the cleaning process, when you lock this in and you push go, hot water's flowing from There's a blank basket in this, so it can't go anywhere. It begins to dissolve the detergent. And when you press stop, that's when cleaning begins because that's when that pressure will drag the detergent Leaving it to do its So in a funny sort of way, it's the time that the machine is off that is much more effective than the time that the pump is on and trying to push water in. Generally, you'll see people be like 10 seconds on, 10 seconds but you could do 10 10 seconds off, and then a and be just as effective. When you're done, rinse Make sure there's no and then make sure that looks and smells clean, and you're done. When it comes to cleaning, the only other bit of an espresso machine to really worry about is the steam wand. Now, I would say regular and good habits of purging the wand at and wiping it thoroughly mean that you shouldn't have to do any frequent maintenance But sometimes some people maybe aren't that good at that stuff, and you need to do some I would say, and I would if you have an accumulation around the holes of the steam wand, take the tip of the steam wand off. You might need a little spanner. They will all unscrew pretty much, and then you can soak that in and clean it out. I don't like the idea of you soaking the entire wand like that. It's highly unlikely But in cafe scenarios, I people do that switch off the machine, and a poor seal of the steam wand has turned that into a drinking straw and it's pulled milky disgusting water back inside its own steam boiler, and that's very bad. So I would say always, always, always remove the tip of the The rest of it, cleaning Make sure it looks nice and clean. Don't let mold grow in your drip tray. You know who you are. Don't do that. But apart from that, nothing's really gonna impact from a cleanliness perspective. What we're gonna talk about now is probably the most difficult part of this whole video, and it's descaling. Water for coffee is a complex world. The best water for coffee's taste may not always completely align with the best water for the And there's two ways that The most common way is that It's got a lot of calcium and that will form calcium and that will accumulate and eventually break it. Descaling it is usually done by adding water with acid dissolved into it to break down the limescale. You can actually have Under certain circumstances, water's chemistry can mean I would say if you're concerned about this and wanna know more, It's a complex world, but you can use things like Langalier index calculators online where you can input a bunch of details about your water's chemistry, and it will tell you if or likely corrosive, or hopefully happily in the middle and not doing anything bad whatsoever. When it comes to descaling a machine, this kind of two approaches, and shout out to John from Decent. When we contacted everyone, he You can use what I would call the frequent descaler concentration. There you're gonna be regularly and there's gonna be pretty if there is any. And so you can use a relatively There, it might be sort of by weight. If you are in a scale forming you haven't descaled you run a really serious risk where if you add gentle descaler to that, well, it could just loosen that could travel through the machine and clog sort of a very narrow part of it. A lot of machines have what are called flow restrictors in them to sort of slow the flow They may be 0.6, 0.8 millimeters wide. That's the narrowest point in the machine. It's very easy for a lump and that would be bad to kinda get fresh descaler In those circumstances, I to use a much higher and leave it a lot longer to do its work to hopefully break down That might be something You can either make your own descaler or you can buy off the shelf products. There's reasons for both. I like to make my own. I use this: citric acid. It's delicious, it's it's cheap, and it's easy to find. With this, you can make up your own concentrations very easily. Like I said, it's a percentage by weight. So if you're making a liter at 3%, you just need 30 grams of citric acid. Nice and easy. The other thing is if you taste water coming outta a machine that it's just a little tangy, and it's totally safe to drink. So I love everything about this. However, there are machines, I think of Gaggia machines in particular, where you'll often see caution and to use own branded product instead because there's concern in something like a By and large, if a manufacturer recommends their own brand product, The downsides are it's expensive. You may be tempted to use a lower concentration or dilute it down or use less than recommended, and that may get you into trouble from using two weak a solution For someyhing like this, For something like this thing here, I'd probably be happy It's easy. It's simple. It's good. In a low scale forming area, probably be doing it in a higher scale forming area, a bit more frequently than that. If your machine is new or recently descaled, you can do a very simple test. Take out your portafilter, put carafe underneath, and catch 30 seconds of water running freely from the group head. Let it flow, 30 seconds, weigh that. Once a machine begins to that number will start to drop. And so every couple how's my machine doing? And for a lot of machines, you'll get a very early warning there that flow is starting to slow. That's a concern. Get on with some descaling. If you've never descaled a Empty your water tank out and add your descale mixture to it. Turn the machine on and You're gonna try and fill the system with the acidic water, with that descaler. Once you've gotten to there, it might be that you wanna let the machine heat up a little bit. Some machines may not recommend this. Do read your manual. Then you're gonna switch off That gives a chance for the acid to break down any lime scale inside. And after a while, you're and flush it through. And once you've flushed through everything in your water tank, get rid of any residue in and then fresh water in, until the taste of sourness has gone. It's gonna be probably to get it through. And that should be, if all you need to do. But like I said, read the manual. Speaking of water tanks, don't let water sit in If you've gone away, change the water out. It will accumulate often a biofilm inside that can affect the taste of the water. So turning over the is a good idea. In terms of other maintenance, thankfully it's pretty limited. In a domestic scenario, you might change the gaskets that are inside the group They will age and become brittle, and form an imperfect seal over time, and you'll see these kind of or kind of coffee water running down the outside The shower screen itself It really depends on the and the manufacturer, and If it's really flexing a lot or if the mesh that sits over the metal is sort of detaching from it as well, it's not an expensive part to change and it is worth doing. For most people, it should a year or two comfortably. But if you're pulling a lot of shots, if you're dosing higher doses too, you may see a bit more wear Grinders need a little bit of love too, but probably less than you think. It is important to clean them out. It does really impact and so here are the essentials. First thing you're gonna worry in terms of regular maintenance is going to be the exit chute, where coffee is leaving the sort of grinder into whatever it's gonna be. That exit point needs to be kept clear because coffee will If you don't keep it clear, then coffee can't properly and you'll get some regrinding happening. That will make more fines. That will make the shots taste worse. That is to be avoided. So making sure the exit chute is clean is the number one task. And I would do that frequently. That's at least every week. Keep an eye on it. In some grinders, it's It's obviously just underneath here. Most grinder manufacturers This is what the brush is We should talk briefly about hoppers. Not every grinder has a meaningful hopper that you can clean. This one doesn't really. this one really does. If you like to leave beans you should know that your cleaning needs to adapt around that, especially if there's any oils on the outside of your coffee beans. Regardless, you will see from a full hopper. You'll see oils deposit on there, and they will start to taste bad. Oils, when they go and you don't want a fishy Regularly remove your Take this away to the sink. Dish soap is fine. Make sure any oil is removed. Water alone will not do a good enough job. You need a little bit of Make sure it is completely dry before returning it and back on it goes. I've seen some horror shows here. And if you've got a little inside your hopper, and you you're welcome to try the finger test where you grab a little bit of it. And if you're up to it, taste it. See how that goes. Where you've got sort of normal sort of built in hoppers getting in there where is probably gonna be the best you can do. Just make sure nothing is If it is really bad, you might need to remove the hopper, but can get complex. Ideally, just keep on top of it and don't let the oil build up. Now there is the more complex topic of opening up the burr chamber And here, there's real and how risky that is. For me, a big divider is, is there some sort of threading In an environment like this where you are unscrewing well, I do not want at any point to get ground coffee in these threads. That would be very annoying. Some grinders make it very easy to open up the burr thread, get in there, and just stick the nozzle of and hoover out whatever's in there, give it a little brush off first. That's great. That's lots. Some manufacturers are saying more than every six to 12 months. There's not a lot of return on investment. As for the burrs, they will but actually the lifespan of Recommendations vary quite widely. I've seen everything for domestic burrs from say 250 kilos up to 500 kilos. That's gonna be somewhere in the region of a decade for some people to longer, and so it's not something you're gonna need to do very often. There'll be loads, these about how to change a burr set, especially because with different burr sets, rather than just changing them because the old ones have If you don't wanna get in but you do wanna do some cleaning, there is one other option. These things, and they are now made by a couple of manufacturers I think, but I think Urnex were These are designed to be They're little sort of that are a kind of cleaning agent, and you grind them through There's a dose recommendation grind them as normal, and then you would need to grind through some fresh coffee afterwards to make sure you push through all of the sort of remaining They are, as I understand, food safe. I remember they used to when they first launched them Didn't look tasty. So don't worry about that. But yes, you'll need to I will say every manufacturer please don't use uncooked Please. I see it all the time. They really don't like it. You do void your warranty. Rice is actually much harder I just wouldn't do it. When burrs get dull, it's One manufacturer did say if But I don't know how the sharpness of a burr So for me, the big telltales The ground coffee coming out Those are two common especially in cafes where the And in those situations, firstly, I would make sure And then if I was still having issues and the timeline kind of lined up with I've used a couple hundred then yes, I'd look at changing it. Kilo-based guidelines aren't that useful because not all coffee is created equal. Very dense, very light roasted coffee is much harder to grind than very dark roasted coffee. And so the lifespan of the dependent on the kind not just the volume of So, it's that from that with a grinder. Just keep it looking nice and you shouldn't have to have any other sort of parts to worry about or maintain for the lifespan of these things. Let's talk just briefly First thing is I would probably recommend buying some espresso machine detergent. It's super useful. Anything that's touching will acquire some unpleasantness, and this is the best way to get rid of it. Things to worry about. In cheaper brewers like You'll get often little mesh thing here. Even if you're using a paper inside this, or still using this, this just needs to soak now and again, so it doesn't have any This you can probably clean by Pretty easiest thing. But again, if you wanna be lazy, a little soak in espresso works super well. I'm not a huge fan of glass because they make the coffee taste bad. I like stainless steel but they easily accumulate a So again, hot water, just or heat a pan on the stove. a good teaspoon of Pour on the hot water, mix, leave it for half an hour, and it'll take away all the unpleasantness that's accumulating there. Easily done. Even if you're a good It can happen to you too. But done regularly, it's really no effort, and it's totally worthwhile. Descaling these is still worthwhile for best possible performance. They won't suffer the same that an espresso machine will because most of the tubes and but still, I would recommend that sort of 2 to 5% strength and just brew it halfway and turn it back on after half an hour. Let it finish, add some clean It's quick. It's easy. You don't have to do it very frequently, but it is worth doing. Last few bits and pieces Firstly, kettles. Now, ideally, like I said, you could have lovely water going in, so your kettle will look at all times. That's the ideal. However, in many situations, you might have a kettle You use it for coffee. Someone else uses it for tea. Someone else doesn't care and you may end up with a This one's not too bad. Typical London kettle: But descaling these is super easy. 100% just use powder citric acid, mix it into a little bit of the water. The best bit of it is that you don't have to be that accurate, and you can just watch it happen. It's very satisfying, Chemistry, it's exciting. And then you have a lovely and that's nice too. Interestingly, one washing the inside of your I'm not sure I'm there. So for me, just rinse it out frequently. In terms of other coffee stuff, again, treat your travel so they will accumulate stuff over time. A little bit of espresso machine detergent is the way to go, just a little bit. Leave it to soak. Take it right out. It'll be beautiful afterwards. Moka pots, the other one please clean them. A patina of dirt is not a good thing. It's not seasoning. It's just dirt. Please clean your moka pots. Aside from cleaning them the little rubber rings inside here, they do need changing. Again, if they get brittle, if you can feel that they're brittle, if locking in is an issue, if you're having any it's probably time for It's cheap and it's easy to do. That's the thing I think If you wanna know why, we have a sliced in half Well, there's a good reason, and we'll leave a link in to our moka pot series, And that's it. Those are the things when it comes to maintenance. And I'm gonna say thank for sponsoring this video. Don't forget, you can get 14 days free with your own personal fitness expert by clicking the link down But now I wanna hear from you. Has this changed the way you're Maybe you wanna comment a and you're cleaning a bit more. Are you tasting the difference? Is there something we missed? Is there a question when it comes to maintenance that's not found in this Leave us a comment down below. We'll respond if we have But for now, I'll say thank and hope you have a great day.