One of the best exercises for you to do is you go back to over and over and over again, For instance, list five companies and to the once a week. Why do I go back? Because of . . . &quot; I go to this fast food Why. . . I go to this store to shop for clothes Why do I go back again? I go here for groceries. Why do I go back here over and over again? What is the reason? And the reason will generally be one of these lot of clues for your own business. #1: Fast You're either going back there because it's Why? Fast food - I don't want to sit down. I just want my food and leave. That's all I want. I don't want anything. I just want a fast service. So you go back to a place because it's fast. #2: Quality One could be quality. What is quality? It's better material. It's better fabric. It's better whatever. The quality is better and I'm willing to spend #3: Cheap Another reason could be because it's cheap. You may say, &quot;Hey, I go to Wal-Mart because Everyday low prices. It's the cheapest place, that's where I want No problem. That's their play. #4: Luxury I go there because of luxury. I've been buying Mercedes all my life because I like to go to this restaurant because it's I like to stay at the W because it's luxury. I like to go. . . because of the luxury feeling you get. #5: User Friendly Another one could be user friendly. I go back to this place, it's so easy. I go back to this website because it's so I like to use this app because it's so easy User friendly. It's so easy. I like iPhone; it's user friendly. I like this, it's user friendly. #6: Customer Service And the other one is customer service. Now most of the time businesses say, &quot;we have the best, we have the most luxury, we have friendly, it's so easy&quot; or best customer service. Now, customer service is generally boring. And generally entrepreneurs, we don't necessarily because it's kind of like, oh my gosh, customer C'mon, give me a break. This is boring! Watch, this video isn't going to get that You'll see it. Because this is not an exciting topic. But this is a very, very important topic. By the time I'm done explaining this to you. When you about customer service, what companies Watch this. People buy BMW. Do you know why? Because of their service. You simply drop off a BMW, take another one, So BMW has a reputation of being incredible Now. Range Rover may be Luxury, but it doesn't But they're known for luxury. So what is the play? You go to another car and it may be cheap. Hey, I'm going to buy a Ford Focus. I'm going to buy whatever. Because it's cheap. There are things you can think about. Tesla user friendly. It's easy. Right? Customer service. Nordstrom. You go to Nordstrom, I don't care what it One time an old lady goes back to Nordstrom online. It's written about in books, etc. etc. This person goes to Nordstrom and says, &quot;I The cashier says, &quot;We don't sell tires.&quot; &quot;No, I bought it here, and I want to return &quot;Do you have a receipt?&quot; &quot;I don't have a receipt.&quot; Do you know what Nordstrom did? They took the tire! And the person said how much it cost and Nordstrom And the person went on to say we returned in the trash, but customer service to them Now there are some places you buy something We don't take it back. We don't. . . they don't care having one star reviews it. You buy it, you got it, it's gone, we're not Mattress companies sometimes do that. Some of them do certain - no, you've already You've already done this. We're not taking any of it back. Customer service. If you think about Amazon, Amazon's got great I think about Zappos. We went and got a private tour of Zappos headquarters. They'll stay on the phone with you and talk They literally will talk to you, how things Hey, let me do this for you. It's constant customer service that people Apple's known for great customer service. Southwest Airlines, when their attendants have to do this, make sure you put the mask which one you like more. . .&quot; These things hahaha, it's funny; but You kind of connect with it. This is a very, very, very valuable way for So now the question becomes, what is the difference Pat, what is the difference? Isn't it the same thing? Absolutely not. Why? Let me explain. And I'll simplify it for you and it will stay Think about customer service as reactive. And think about customer experience as proactive. What does this mean? For instance. Here's customer service. &quot;Thank you for calling AT&amp;T. How may I help you?&quot; Yes, great. Is there any other issues that you have? Have I fulfilled your service request you've Okay, please take this recorded call and survey Customer service could be a client is upset, All good. Customer service is thank you, please, may Thank you for your help. Thank you for listening. Thank you for understanding. Thank you. . . it's customer service. Customer service could be, &quot;I totally understand I totally feel your pain. I'm sorry.&quot; It's apologetic. It's customer service, because it's reactive A customer buys, here's your receipt, thank like to buy this? Would you like to upgrade your service? Customer service. That's customer service. And by the way, very important, customer service. Now a few are very good at customer experience. That's kind of when you go from here [customer experience]. Let me explain what I mean by customer experience. Look, whatever business you run, if you have be able to tell me that you have some VIP Everybody has VIP customers. This is not about discrimination. VIP customers to American Express is called VIP customers to American Airlines is called that they get priority seating, right? A VIP customer for Sephora makeup for ladies Sephora does very well because they have this part of Beauty Insider get samples sent to That's Sephora. They do a phenomenal job with Beauty Insider They get it before all the other customers. Your VIP, VIP Amazon is Prime. There are many of them that I can give you. The VIPs, you're hoping to get many of them to VIPs and they only get converted here, Customer experience. So what is customer experience? Proactive. Proactive is the way you treat them. The details. Customer experience is all about details. So if I call American Express Black Card, Card and they'll tell me, &quot;Hey, we just want up. Your wife's birthday is coming up. Any plans? We see that last time you went to Bacara Hotel. Do you want to do the same thing? Do you want me to look for something? How about you give me this afternoon and let Customer experience. Then they send me an email and they call me. When is a good time for us to get on the phone? 15 minutes. So let me tell you what I found. If you want to do something very extravagant, experience and . . . and it's do unique and You're wife's really going to like it. Tell me what things your wife likes. Experience. Experience. Amazon could go out there and find exactly and they give you a better experience. It doesn't matter what it is. it all goes to the experience part. Or you go into Apple and you talk to one of you are a regular human being. You don't feel like you're scripted -- too Although they have a script as well that they've But it's just talking to you. Zappos the same way. They're talking to you. They're listening to you. Tell me about. . . how's your day? You don't hear too many &quot;regular&quot; customer me about your day.&quot; Think about that small little side question customer service. Yes, I'm trying to handle this. . . Okay, great, let me place you on hold. Let me see what I can do. Do you have a case number for this? Okay, thank you. Okay, have a great day. Bye bye. Done. Instead, okay, Patrick Bet-David, thank you By the way, Patrick, how was your day today?&quot; And I'm going to say whatever I'm going to I'm going to give them, &quot;It's okay. It's great&quot; And then I'm going to ask what? &quot;How was your day?&quot; &quot;Oh, my day's great. Thank you for asking. By the way, thank you for your loyalty. I can see you've been with us for 10 years. We appreciate your loyalty with us.&quot; Hey! Somebody appreciates my loyalty. I'm a loyal human being. No problem, I've been a loyal customer. We're proud to put, &quot;I've been an American is. Loyalty, right? Hey, we appreciate you. Thank you. This [customer service] goes to here [customer And the more you can take people from here the better off you're going to be with your Let me help you think about it maybe in a more and we'll wrap up this episode is this. So when it comes down to the dating game. Just think about it this way. There are a lot of people that just [snap] They want to go out and be promiscuous. All good. It's a philosophy, if you want to do that, In business, if you treat your customers like spreads. If you treat customers like that, or anybody And it's not always the best reputation to So then there is just one-night stand philosophy. Then there's dating philosophy. Then there's marriage philosophy. Your VIPs are marriage. Your VIPs are marriage. Your VIPs are people that go from dating to They're kind of trying your product. They like it. Ah, um, great. Wow, they treat me so well, I want to marry And I want to go there regularly. And then I want to tell other people. They become your best recruiters. VIP members become your best recruiters. Best recruiters. They recruit for you for free. All that million dollar ad on T.V. that you're to do, you don't have to do it. Because they're doing it for free - if you They are so valuable. This is why some companies, there's nothing that they create incredible customer service. They don't make shoes. They don't make shoes. Zappos doesn't make shoes. They're not Toms. They don't make shoes. It's service. It's purely service for them. They give incredible service. They send you return, you don't have to pay for it. It's purely a service game. They're not playing the cheap game. They're playing the service game with you. It's so valuable and then all of a sudden, couple billion dollars, whatever the number Tony Hsieh is a customer service guy. So I know a lot of times especially startup become a millionaire yesterday. I get messages, &quot;I want to be a billionaire That's great, you know. Maybe don't tie it to, believe me, if you - I had a conversation this morning with a in our company, he's a doctor, Dr. Cooper. He and I were having a conversation together me something about why I chose to work with experiences of working with you, how it's And he's going into this whole story what early, early call that we're having here this I'm sure he appreciates that call, but that's anniversary. So we're having this call together and all our experience together, why he's still here. He left a six-figure job to come here. He was a principal, the youngest principal But he came because of the experience he had Now we've become very good friends, so it's And the more we have of that, that we treat Your business gets stronger. You can't have this wam bam type of a mentality not paying attention to your customers. So go back, again, the initial exercise, make to regularly and ask yourself why do you go You will be amazed how all of them will generally One of these things here. Now you may say, convenience, it's very close. That's part of fast. So any of that stuff that you write down is And then for your own business, ask yourself, to a whole different level, to add customer to more VIP customers? And what can I categorize as a VIP customer What do you categorize as a VIP customer for from regular to VIP customers? That in itself is going to make you a ton build, it will do you very, very well growth-wise, with you regularly over and over and over So, that's my message today for you on customer Mario, where's our pillow? Do we have our pillow? I can no longer say 100,000 subs because we What is exciting is we already got many hundreds that video on why I love Valuetainment and crossed 100,000 subs and Mario asked me to mentor three of you here in my office in Dallas, plan and put a strategy plan together for We're planning on doing it sometime in the a 3-minute video and all the details - let's see it. You can go to PatrickBetDavid.com as well, And you'll see the details as well. So 100,000 subscriber celebration contest, But if you haven't subscribed yet to the channel, and if you have any questions about customer comments and thoughts on the bottom. Take care everybody. Bye bye.