Animals will always be there when humans need help... With their incredible courage, they are considered one of human's most precious friends. Tune in to witness these admirable moments right here on WOWTV! The street thugs, always strut their stuff thinking they're tough with their weapons. But they didn't know that this doggo's got more guts than they could imagined... As soon as the kitten sensed the danger to the store owner, it sprang into action... The snake surely learned a lifelong lesson after that. The recurrence of heart attack was terrifying for the old woman living alone. *Help* Upon hearing her cries for help, Lulu the piggy quickly sought assistance. He blocked every passing vehicle to signal the need for help. Lulu succeeded in leading a young man to follow. *Is in distress out here?* As soon as he learned of the woman's situation, he quickly called an ambulance Thanks to Lulu's quick thinking, she survived the attack. A fox was trying to find food in the chicken coop when a high-speed chase began! The strict protection of the German Shepherds made the fox never dare to return. The cat sensed all the hardships she had to go through... A hug is the greatest comfort. I fell in love with Switzerland's beauty thanks to the mountains and Bernese the prosthetic leg. Watching the chimpanzee help the man wash his hands I can feel Protecting the owner is the instinct of dogs. And this instinct kicked in at just the right time. Animals can understand human language through tone of voice, this dog wouldn't let anyone disrespect its beloved human. Imagine having a monkey bodyguard. And now watch what he'll do. A notable turn of events occurred as the burglar attempted to vandalize the electric gate... and slowly make his way into the house. However, he quickly gave up as the loyal &quot;gatekeeper&quot; appeared. Friendship was the key to helping the gecko escape the suffocating siege. Animals intuition about natural the fierce barking the disaster it safely inside her home Did you know that a cat can also be a brave gatekeeper? For them, nothing is more important than their human friend's safety. A challenge arose as he jumped into the sea, catching the attention of a shark. While trying to stay calm, a pod of dolphins showed up as saviors, chasing the ocean killer away. The farmer was misunderstood by the mama cow as having bad intentions towards her calf, so she charged at him furiously. The mistake of the little snake was to invade the house without permission. The poor puppy fell into the swimming pool and it was great for him to have such good friends There was always someone waiting for him when he came back from work. As a daily habit, the dog opened the door and waited for its owner to return. This was the happiest thing every day that no one else could bring. Waking up in the middle of the night, the girl was dizzy and lost her balance. At the most critical moment, the dog caught her in time. The hunger drove the ostrich crazy. Luckily, the kangaroo managed to stop it in time. Each of us is born with a mission. And this dog was trained to perform the noble mission of saving people. The lion was injured while hunting a hyena alone. When he was about to give up his fate, a savior suddenly arrived. Horse therapy was the best way to help him stabilize his mentality. They might not share the same language, but they seemed to understand each other through their gaze. but they seemed to understand each other through their gaze. After a tiring day, this is the most anticipated moment. When night falls, it's time for the thieves to take action. But they won't get past the sharp eyes. Having a dog is still the best way to ensure your home security! Watch Kham Lha the elephant rush into the water to save her caregiver, thinking he was in trouble. Why did the dog sit there for so long? And what did that begging look mean? It turned out there was a kitten trapped under the drain. The retired guide dog's kind instincts told him to help the blind guy And that kindness even changed his owner... *It was my responsibility to be Roselle you're going down the stairs doing A blind man surviving after the mall collapsed is unbelievable. But a miracle happened thanks to the guide dog. The dedicated bodyguards did not let the wolves get close to their owner even for a step. Were you guys annoyed by the dog's puzzling behavior? WOW TV misunderstood until the tree branch fell. Turns out it was doing everything to keep the girl safe. An elephant was hailed as the hero of the zoo, for calling humans to rescue a drowning antelope. Despite the loud barking, the thief still dared to act. And the dog's efforts paid off, its owner woke up. Thieves always lie and wait when But they would instantly The man s slowly fell to the ground But this time, he didn't wake up. Sensing something was wrong, the dogs found another way to help... The doggo couldn't bear to see the poor fish having to leave its family. It decided to help the fish get back home. Taking advantage of the old man's slowness, the robber took his backpack without knowing that there was always a bodyguard by his side. The POTS syndrome that Katie suffered from affects her life a lot. Luckily Bailey could sense the change in her heartbeat and took care of her like a nurse whenever she got sick. Before the bull could gore the toddler, the hero German shepherd scared it off with his incredible speed. Every hard work becomes easier when you have such a reliable assistant by your side. The baby zebra couldn't escape the sharp claws of the lion. But don't worry because the mama would do everything to protect her child. Maybe it was just the dog's overdone joke, But whatever scared her, the cat couldn't stand still. Lizzie was lucky to have two horses who always helped her. Even when they had to pull a 10-ton truck up a hill covered with ice. This dog ran 5km after the ambulance and waited patiently at the hospital door for a week just to know that his owner was safe. And this touched everybody's heart. Each dog has its own way of protecting seeing the toddler intending to get Outside Alone the golden doggo immediately It would be a bad day for these two aggressive dogs as they deliberately scared this little boy This wilderbeast was struggling the brave Duo of two hippopotamuses came to Looking at the Mother Bear's reaction it is certain that it would protect its cub more than its own life The cat's greatest enemy is undoubtedly the Despite the difference in size the dog tried to push the waterfill car to help its owner A pan in a kitchen suddenly caught fire and this dog immediately knew that something This family returned home unaware that danger was lurking it wasn't until their golden Guardian when reviewing the CCTV they Thanks to the Barking of their small A dog's vigilance is never in vain while these two Cubs were around there quickly hid inside of their house until [Music] away a tiring day at work becomes colleague did you save that baby bird the saving a little life good boy good ended up being the defeated party in its when this farmer was tagging the calf's ears intended to rush forward with her baby but the dang Street robbers targeted victim but the the bodyguards beside him made them [Music] surrender and even showed concern for the baby's sleep falling into the lion's its life was about to end but a miracle time got to scare the grizzly Z the combative close to his owner heading for the Hills something unusual while driving this cat gestures more than just a nanny your pet ensures that nothing untour happens to [Music] ones a cat helps rescue a boy lunch in the middle of the vast ocean Dr Hower shark this loyal dog never drunk it's clear that these dogs have a preference okay never turn your back on a bodyguard hey yeah yeah oh Rottweiler confronts its owner call him call him off oh SC foots the dog's ability to perceive hidden dangers enabled it to keep watch and ensure the dogs can switch into protection mode [Music] trouble the eagle size is no match for the human even when the poultry becomes unruly the lessons this smart dog helped his human move tires bite this cow will be ready to fight if this uneven battle needed to be Justice would always be the Victorious a great job as a caretaker it was helping eating in the Stillness of the night their disabled dog fellow safely across the road Rottweilers are truly Fearless [Music] creatures they were playing with a snake as a rope the lizard's plot breaking into the dog didn't stop until it territory loyalty was the only thing him even when it was extremely afraid you [Applause] [Music] there was a small dog in front of the car that was there was a baby crawling on the grass it deserved a baby impala accidentally fell water luckily received help from these Mighty [Music] Rescuers [Music] the imperfections of a human [Music] companion a baby analou has been protected by the you protect him no he got it Environmental Protection does anyone same our cat was trying to save her tub so it tried to bite her arm to get her out of there let's see how a mother hen protected predator always Vigilant and protective to be the most trustworthy Companions of humans this Turtle helped his friend get back to normal thank [Music] you [Music] if the bear thought that find food was a good idea then wrong just a few minutes away from a predator this caught the attention they rescued the young elephant [Music] mother [Music] and the animal world let's spread love sharing and subscribing for these positive things