Hello everyone! Today's protagonist is wild boar thigh meat! So today I'm going to use it to introduce you to Ragu di Cinghiale! Let's cook with love! Let's start by cutting the boar thigh meat. Whenever I make ragout, the meat cuts are quite large. It's a little greasy, so cut the greasy part a little finely. Is it delicious to bake such fatty meat? But it looks a little hard because it's thigh meat. When I often make wild boar ragout in Italy, the meat is soaked in red wine overnight and cooked the next day, but the ones that can be purchased in Japan are bred (not wild) and have no wild odor, so I personally I don't think it 's necessary to marinade. After all, there is a lot of fat to make ragout, so I 'll drop it a little. Too much fat will make you persistent. I think that this ratio is good. After cutting, put the meat in a bowl. Add a spoonful of fennel seeds and black pepper. Crush the fennel seeds and black pepper. Let's mix it lightly. If you add spices when making ragoo, the taste will be deeper, so I think you should add a little more spices. Marinated for about 10 minutes. In the meantime, let's cut the sofrito! Sofrito uses traditional onions, carrots and celery. I will cut the vegetables into small pieces. Use one for normal medium size. The size of the sofrito vegetables is very important. Since it is eaten with pasta, if the vegetables are too big, the taste of the meat will be lost. It is very important to cut it to the same size and fry it carefully. Let's make one or two pieces of garlic cut in half and EV olive oil . Let's make Olio all'aglio. Garlic will be removed later, so peel it off and cut it in half . One garlic is the same size as an onion. Let's cut it into. Cut one celery in the same way. Add vegetables and fry over low heat. Immediately add a little salt. The reason is that when salt is added, wild water comes out and it becomes even sweeter. The method of making ragout changes a little depending on the chef, but there is a general method of making ragout. I think ragout is interesting because it is made by changing the herbs and spices used depending on the meat used. Let's fry so as not to burn. Fry the boar thighs while slowly frying the sofrito. This is the most important point for me. To bring out the flavor of the meat, heat the frying pan well and add the meat when it gets hot. Wild boar meat has a lot of fat, so you don't have to grind it. Place the meat on a frying pan so that it spreads evenly. If you mix it immediately, water will come out and it will not burn well, so wait for a while until it becomes brown. When it gets this much brown, bake the other side as well. After frying well, add 170g of red wine. When red wine is added, the umami on the frying pan is peeled off and the taste becomes stronger. However, the alcohol in red wine must be completely removed. If you don't do that, the alcohol flavor will eventually remain and it will not be delicious. Remove the garlic. Add 200g of whole tomatoes. Turn on high heat for a while to remove the water from the tomatoes. When the alcohol flies, add the meat. Mix lightly. It smells really good! It 's a little wild ... the smell of the forest ... but it's a characteristic of wild boar meat ... it's delicious! Add the meat and fry over high heat again. When the tomatoes, sofrito and meat are uniform like this, reduce the heat to low and add 700g of vegetable dashi. After adding the dashi stock, add about 4 cloves and tie this much with a string to make Bouquet Garni. In Italian, Mazzettino di Erbe Aromatiche . In Japanese, simmer with Bouquet Garni. Boil over low heat for two and a half hours. In the meantime, let's make Pappardelle! Soft flour 190g Semolina flour 70g Mix a little , make a hole in the middle, and mix 2 whole eggs, 3 egg yolks, 2 salt and 2 pinch eggs. Let's mix it by hand when it is roughly combined. When the texture becomes fine , wrap it and let it sit in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Lagu is like this now. Let's taste and adjust the salt. Still more ... about an hour. It's been about an hour. The gluten in the pasta has become loose and easy to stretch! Add a little powder and stretch it into pieces that are easy to stretch. After making pasta, you can relax Cut it to about the same length as spaghetti. It's handmade pasta, so it's okay if it's a little disjointed. Dust it so that it does not stick. Pasta all'uovo does not change the dough composition so much. If it's ravioli, it's better to make it a little softer ... The difference between tagliatelle and pappardelle is that tagliolini cuts this width. This is Tagliolini This is Tagliatelle Pappardelle is wider . Separately, the pasta that matches the ragout can be either tagliatelle or pappardelle. I think Tagliolini is good for butter sauce. Also for truffle sauce etc. This is used properly according to the sauce and people's taste. When you make a lot and freeze it , arrange about 15 pieces like this, take it from the center and roll it around to make a shape. This will make the pasta stick to each other or break even when frozen. But today, let's eat it with delicious wild boar ragout without freezing! By the way, when boiling frozen pasta, do not thaw it and boil it frozen! Two and a half hours have passed! Take the bouquet garni (and take the cloves if you find them) . The important thing is always to taste. No matter how many times you make the same recipe, you always have to taste it. delicious! Super delicious! You don't have to add cheese when you do Mantecatura. Thanks to cloves, rosemary and cinnamon, the taste is really deep! There is nothing missing! Let's boil the pasta. Pappardelle is raw pasta, so it takes about 2 minutes to boil. When it becomes al dente, combine it with ragout and simmer for another minute to eat! When the pasta becomes al dente, combine it with the sauce. Let the pasta and sauce blend in for about a minute. Let's put out the fire and love Mantecatura!