(solemn music) (solemn music continues) (solemn music continues) - I see 'em. - What do we do? - Just keep holding the herd. Don't worry about them. - What tax? - You gotta pay a tax if you You don't gotta, but if you it's a pretty good idea. - Comanches can charge a tax? - It's their land. They - The only people that still live in Washington. - There's water in this straw. Push the herd to it. We'll make camp here. Carve one out for the cook first. - All right. Yes, sir. (solemn music continues) (gunshot bangs) (group indistinctly chattering) (group continues chattering) - I think she fancies those damn Indians. - I wouldn't waste too much time worrying about how that You ain't gonna figure it. (Sam clicks) - I like your horse. - Lightning. That's his name. - Why Lightning? - Because that's how fast he is. - Show me then. (gentle music) (lively music) (lively music continues) - Where's she going? - They're gonna race. - Do what? - Shit. - The voice of reason has been muted. - Oh, look at her face, honey. - I see it. I just don't - Well, the one place you is on the back of a horse. - Mhm. (horse hooves thumping) - Y'all ready? Go! (exciting music) (exciting music continues) - I think she dropped her reins. - No. She let 'em go. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (Sam chuckles) - Lightning. Told you. (Sam chuckles) - I think you are the lightning. Lightning with the yellow hair, like a... (Sam speaks in indigenous language) That's what I will call you. Lightning Yellow Hair. (Sam chuckles) - What do I call you? - Sam. - Sam? - [Sam] Sam. - Why Sam? - That was the name of the I know because I made him tell me and I killed him and took it. (tornado roaring) What do we do? - Run. - [Elsa] Which direction? - That way! (tornado roaring) (rider whoops) - Easy, boy. (group screams) - Turn the horse loose! - How will they make it? - They won't. Turn him loose. (tense music continues) - I love you. Go! Go! - Hey! (tense music continues) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) (tender music) (tender music continues) (tender music continues) (tender music continues) (tender music continues) (tender music continues) (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) - Everything you see and is my home! You're always welcome in it, It's your home too now. (Sam whoops) (gentle music continues) (tense music) (gunshots banging) (tense music continues) (gentle music) - [Elsa] I felt no fear. It simply became another race. We fear what we don't know. I knew what would happen. I would win the race or I would be killed. There was comfort in the simplicity of it. Even though I could hear I felt no fear. (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) There's horror to every killing, even when it's justified. Even when I killed, I was horrified, but watching Sam kill was like watching a lion His fury is so magnificent, not even for the men he killed. I questioned my mind. I wondered if I'm the one who is dead and this is all a dream. I watched him ride away and I must be alive. Then I chased after him. (lively music) (lively music continues) - Get up against it on the other side! Push in on it! Whoop at him to keep him moving! - Whoop at him? (Elsa whooping) - Girl's starting to ride like a Comanche. (Elsa whooping) - That is a compliment, James. (lively music continues) (gentle music) - Now you know how to steal horses. - Hm. Could come in handy someday. - Heh, if you stick with me, it will. - [Elsa] Ugh. Damn. (Sam speaks in indigenous language) (elder speaks in indigenous language) (elder laughs) - Yeah, ha-ha. - He says you ride too He's right. (group faintly chattering) (gentle music) - Got her some chaps. Heh, it's official. You're all cowboy now. (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) - I have no home, which is to say my home is everywhere. I don't wanna leave. - You want to stay? - I don't need to see mountains. - Mountains are worth seeing. - You saying I should go? - I'm saying mountains are worth seeing, but you don't need wagons to see them. I can take you. (tender music) - It's settled. You'll take me then. (tender music continues) Where are you going? - I must offer your father something. - For what? - For you. (tender music continues) (dramatic music) (Sam speaking in indigenous language) Eat. Bite into it. Its strength is your strength. (Sam speaking in indigenous language) (dramatic music continues) Lightning with the yellow hair. Horse thief and hunter. (dramatic music continues) (Sam shouts in indigenous language) (crowd cheers) (crowd continues cheering) (group whooping) (group continues whooping) - What have you done? - I killed a buffalo. (group whoops) (gentle music) - What is this? - It's for you. - Why is it for me? - Whatcha doing? - I'm trading these things. I got no use for 'em anymore. - Elsa! - Stay in here. You don't wanna see this. (gentle music continues) - Are you aware of what he's asking? - I'm aware. Take the horse, Daddy. - Young lady, I will not allow this. - You're not allowing it I'm 18 years old. I'm allowing it. - You think being 18 makes you a woman? - The law thinks it does. (gentle music continues) - Don't just stand there. Stop 'em. Shoot him! Do something! (Margaret scoffs) (gentle music continues) - [Elsa] I understood my mother's worry. My choices make no sense in her world where customs and prejudice There will be customs and but they were born of this To import the traditions the place that failed you, is to condemn the place you I'll ride with you to Oregon, if I ever need a place to start over, or maybe I'll just visit and (gentle music continues) - So, is there some form of ceremony? - No ceremony. - All I ask, have a ceremony. Say vows before God so this at least has a chance. - He saved my life. Twice. He saved your husband's life too. I don't need to ask God's God sent him. (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) - Strong. Fast. - A good horse for war, that one. - Where will she live? - My land is with Quanah Parker, south of the Wichita Mountains. I'll build her a house if I think she would rather - She would, but she's young. The young change their minds. What if she changes her mind about you? Then I will bring her back to you. - How will you find me? - White men think the world is so big because you fight against We move with it like the wolf. It is small to us. I'll find you. - No chance you'd wanna come to Oregon? - I fought too hard I doubt the fighting's over. I'll marry your daughter, but and the people belong to this land. We don't dare leave it. Maybe someday you'll and you'll know what I mean. (tender music) - How do you say &quot;I love you&quot;? (Sam speaks in indigenous language) (Elsa speaks in indigenous language) (Sam speaks in indigenous language) (Elsa speaks in indigenous language) (Sam chuckles) - Pretty good. - How do you say my name? - Lighting with the yellow hair. (Sam speaks in indigenous language) (Elsa speaks in indigenous language) - Teach me more. (Sam speaking in indigenous language) (Sam continues speaking (tender music continues) (Sam speaks in indigenous language) (tender music continues) (solemn music) (solemn music continues) (solemn music continues) (solemn music continues) - At least we have a path to follow. - How far to Fort Caspar? - A couple of weeks. We might just pull this off. - We meet here when the flowers bloom. - When do the flowers bloom? - In your new home, it's April. Here, it is June. - I'll meet you here in June. (gentle music) (dramatic music) Sam! (shouts in indigenous language) I love you! (group whooping) (dramatic music continues) (Elsa softly sobs) (solemn music) - [Elsa] I felt their eyes move over me, felt their pity and disapproval, The only thing that just as I was riding away from him. As I pondered the new journey before me, making it back to him, they watched the tears run I didn't turn my face or wipe them away. Tears, we can't control. Sobs and weeps are little surrenders, and I will surrender nothing to the pain. Tears may flow, but I will not weep. I am the wife of a warrior now, which is to say I am a warrior, and warriors don't cry. We're wasting time. (solemn music continues)