(soft music) - [David] The cosmos is painfully vast. If advanced civilizations and birth galactic spanning empires, they will have to deal with of interstellar communication. Frustratingly, Einstein tells us that particles cannot be since that would require infinite energy, thus placing an apparent To us, the speed of light but to the universe, it's pitifully slow. So slow that for a its communication lag times would be up to a 100,000 years. Just think of the enormous changes that have happened to our own Back then, our ancestors hadn't even left the African continent yet, let alone developed agriculture, Think of the countless wars, revolutions, episodes of growth and collapse, diseases, famines, and sociopolitical transformation that have transpired in that time. Certainly by human standards, it would seem fanciful a coherent galactic empire when communication lag the turn time scale of Faster than light or FTL communication could clearly come to the rescue here, especially if it were ansible, which is to say instantaneous. Now, even if ships and objects to move slower than the speed of light, just being able to would be game changing for such empires. And this technology would also benefit more primitive civilizations reducing communication between our spacecraft between earth and our distant Unfortunately, in relativity, the speed of light isn't No, it truly represents because in relativity, about what a simultaneous Whereas Newtonian physics absolute sense of time across the cosmos, Einstein dismantled that and showed that it all depends upon one's relative frame of reference. Consequently, breaking the speed of light isn't just an issue of It actually fundamentally For example, allowing before they were ever sent. If you wanna see how these then you should check out our video on FTL causality violations These kinds of grandfather paradoxes append the logical foundation of physics and are generally rejected under the causality protection conjecture, famously positive by Stephen Hawking. This would seem like pretty bad news for our hopes of FTL communication then, but that statement of from the theory of relativity, and most physicists would that any physical theory is really just an approximation to reality and is not a literal description of it. So, if we temporarily throw relatively out of the window, which remember is our best description of the universe at the largest of scales, that leaves us with quantum mechanics, which is our best at the smallest of scales. Despite the undeniable many of us might put more over those of relativity. After all, this is a theory in an everyday sense, such as within the semiconductors yet more, its predictions have been tested to absurd precision. For example, the anomalous of the electron has been measured to one part in 100 billion, and it still lands right on top of the prediction from theory. To paraphrase physicist Roman Jackiw, quantum mechanics is Another attraction of quantum mechanics is that it was conceived in Now, yes, you can marry and get something like but the fundamental ideas are and there's even more good news, because when one takes quantum mechanics and looks at it fairly naively, there appears to be a way of and that is quantum entanglement. After our earlier video explaining why FTL breaks causality, many of you commented as an apparent workaround. So, let's tackle this today. The concept of a quantum let's just call it QEC for short, has been popular in For example, in books, &quot;The makes use of such a system. In movies, you have &quot;Avatar,&quot; and in video games you have Mass Effect. - What's this area of the ship? - [Computer] This is the In addition to interfacing Normandy is fitted with a linked to the Illusive Man's office. - [David] So, let's explain why it is that many fictional as their possible FTL communication system and what our current actually has to say about the The primary fact that is that the effects of entanglement have been clearly established to travel faster than the speed of light. Now, that statement on its own isn't quite the same thing as saying, therefore, FTL communication is allowed, but naively, it seems like indeed it should make it possible. But what even is quantum entanglement? Let's start with a quantum a core feature of quantum theory. To begin, we can imagine a single particle that is isolated from any other. Let's consider a particular of that particle. Let's say spin, which until something interacts which could be an observer making a measurement, for example. The quantum state of the particle spin is not either up or down as but rather it is a The particle is almost like an equal blend of the two expressed like this. If we go ahead and then this superposition state in this case, with a 50% Quantum theory forces that the universe is intrinsically something that unsettles Now, it's important to emphasize that prior to this collapse, it's not merely that we don't know the spin of the particle at a 50-50 odds, it genuinely exists in a kind of 50-50 ghost-like Erwin Schrodinger, who was one of the famously illustrated an with his thought experiment that ends up being both Now, entanglement is of a superposition, and one that involves but rather than being a it's a superposition of such that the measurement of one particle is associated with a for the other. Whilst we can entangle many different properties of particles, the usual example of this involves spin, where two particles are created together such that the sum of their spins is zero. It's still a superposition, actually has a definite spin value, but because the sum is zero, when one of them interacts and chooses a specific spin, say up, then the other particle responds by collapsing to the opposite What's so bizarre is that this happens, even if we take these particles and separate them across vast distances, collapsing the spin state immediately collapses the other. But really it's more accurate to say that measuring the spin state collapses the state of the pair, because when it comes to entanglement, they're in this together. Einstein was disturbed by this feature since it seemed to violate his theory, and he caught it spooky He even got together with and they wrote a paper claiming that quantum as a result of this, often after their initials. But today we know that of quantum theory appears reversed. And the speed at which this has even been measured to be than the speed of light. It's this feature of quantum mechanics that a QEC device is Surely, the fact that action at distance occurs instantaneously establishes that FTL communication is possible, right? Well, as always, the because how exactly is it that you propose to use this for communication? Let's say that we have such that that total spin is zero. And we put one of them up on a spacecraft that we're gonna call Bob And the other one is at a control center, Once the spacecraft has the idea is to use this whether Bob thinks the rather than having to wait many years for a light speed signal to reach us. But here's the question, what exactly is Bob supposed to do in order to send Alice Because the truth is with such particles is open thus collapsing their wave So, if Bob does that, then and chooses to be a certain spin. 50% of the time, that spin will be up, and 50% of the time it will be down. Crucially, Bob has no say or As we said before, quantum theory dictates that the universe is This means that when Alice at the expected time, it will either be up or Now, whilst is true, that Alice's particle is in Alice actually has no way of Bob could send a conventional radio signal saying what spin it saw, but then that's just In short, because Bob can't to adopt a particular spin, there's no way to actually use this to transmit any information. As at this point, though, your head is probably churning here, trying to think of some and you are not alone. Many physicists have tried over the years. One simple idea is that Bob and just keep measuring the spin state over and over and over again until they get the result that they want, thus forcing Alice's particle into the opposite of that desired state. However, this sadly also doesn't work because the entanglement is lost the moment that you measure Like a one time deal, it This is one of the problems with the depiction in Mass Effect too, which seems to present that persists even after one which is actually false. - I've never heard of a quantum How does it work? - [Computer] Essentially, two subatomic particles are created in an entangled state. If we alter the state of our particle, that alters the state This allows us to send data - [David] Okay, fine. Maybe you'll try and work around this by using a bunch of So, let's imagine here that Bob wants to get a spin up result. So, they open up the first particle, and if it's not in a spin up state, they just keep going and going until they get the result they want. So, let's imagine that Bob gets a spin up result, but again, consider what Alice sees. They have no idea that And so, they will just keep reading off a sequence of random spins. And that statement is true whether Alice is the first Either way, Alice gets a and not a message. Okay, now, some of you still might not have and start thinking a little because surely there is some for FTL communication, right? Well, usually when talking about this, there is someone who proposes Maybe we just don't worry of the particles. We grudgingly accept that the Instead, we denote a one to and a zero, otherwise. The usual proposed setup here is that a bunch of particles are entangled and Alice is sending them through some kind of double The solution here typically states that Alice should see an interference pattern whilst the particles are entangled, but that once Bob measures then the wave function collapses and Alice will instead start over each hole. If we're being technical here, then double split experiments but we could do something using a Rabi isolation experiment. But look, that's not really the point. The real point of all of whether or not to make their measurement. And so, the instantaneous would constitute FTL communication. The problem with this proposal If two entangled particles are separated and only one of them is pushed through a double slit-like experiment, it will not produce an And that means that whether the pair Alice will always observe no interference. And hence, no communication Yes, you can get interference, but you would have to push through the double slits, not just one. To see why this wouldn't work, we need to better understand In an interference experiment a superposition state one first applies an the relative phase between of that superposition. So, for example, using a magnetic field, if the superposition is Next, one performs an operation to join the two paths back together here using a magnetic field in And finally, one now measures the particle is in a specific The superposition is identified of this probability on the imparted phase. If the superposition is in the joint state of the two particles, which is the case for an entangled pair, then the operation we need before performing a measurement of those two particles. That is, we need to to interact in the interference apparatus in order to identify that they are in a joint So, either we'll have to bring or use some long range force which, of course, we know cannot propagate faster than the speed of light. And so, what this means Bob has no way to transmit by measuring or not Now, some of you might onto hope here because after all, we just need to find some way, any way that Bob can influence And then the entanglement to be transmitted FTL. So, let's try one last idea, one there's a little bit more advanced. Remember that for a single particle, it's spin exists in a prior to measurement. But really, the spin but rather pointing in some It could be in any direction, in fact, but when we measure it along some axis, let's say the y-axis, we force the particle to along that axis. However, we could equally along the x-axis instead, thus forcing the particle along that axis. Now, since that axis is let's call those states right and left. So, given this, perhaps where we are going for our Alice and Bob pre agree that to be spinning in an x then that corresponds to a zero. But if they observe their particles to be spinning in a y then that corresponds to a one. Now, Bob can choose along the x or y-axis. That's at this spacecraft's discretion. If Bob chooses x and then Alice's particle will collapse into a right state instantaneously. Whereas if Bob chooses y and then Alice's particle will that's Bob sending a one. Sadly, this setup also doesn't work. And the more elaborate and complicated we make these schemes, then inevitably, the as to why they don't In this case, it really under these two possible scenarios. Of course, Alice doesn't know whether Bob chose x or y beforehand. So, Alice has to adopt as a default. Let's start with the easiest scenario where Bob measures a measurement in the same direction as Alice Specifically, let's use So, that means that Bob measures in y, and 50% of the time will get an up, and 50% of the time will get a down. Now, Alice is measuring in a y sense too. So, they must see the So, that means 50% of the time down, and 50% of the time up. So far, this really isn't very useful. Alice is just getting a But now let's consider the other scenario where Bob chooses to measure Now, 50% of the time, Bob will randomly measure a left and 50% of the time a right. So, that means that Alice's into a left or right state. But remember that Alice has that they should be making Instead, they are just sticking to making y-based So then what does Alice actually observe? Well, this left and is essentially forced to make a choice between spinning up or spinning down. The situation is a bit like That's Bob forcing the when they make their measurement and collapse the wave function. But in this analogy, as pulling down on the coin forcing the coin to settle or down state. Which one emerges is a So, after all of this, we are left with the following result. If Bob measures in a y sense, then Alice, who remember is we'll see up or down to 50% probability. If instead Bob switches then Alice, who is still using y, we'll see up or down to 50% probability. In other words, it makes no difference what Bob does to what Alice gets. Either way, Alice is left just like we had before. (soft music) After all of this, all of these ideas, we're basically left where we started, because at the end of the day, Alice and Bob still have All their QEC device does, at is just spit out a random In a practical sense, their than some cosmic demons giving one to Alice and in a concealed shoe box. Before Bob opens their box, the shoe could be left When Bob opens their box then by a deduction, they know that Alice must But that's not communication. There's no way that Bob can to send a message to Alice. There have been many besides from the ones but all of them consistently In fact, physicists have and shown that if the fundamental assumptions are taken as true, then that such communication is impossible, known as the no-communication theorem. It really boils down to the one cannot influence the state which a wave The universe appears intrinsically random, a god playing dice. And so, because of this, Alice and Bob are doomed to Despite this, quantum and incredibly useful, forming the foundation and quantum computing. In the next few decades, it could become an of our modern technologies. And when it comes to FTL, look, action at a distance than the speed of light. So, does that fact in of itself establish that Einstein's speed limit is wrong, that his limit isn't some kind If so, that would at least It would at least crack the door open to some other possible FTL But sadly, even that's not true because Einstein's speed limit isn't really about the It's really about causality. Relativity is actually quite content for things to travel faster than light. It's just that information can't do that. A good example is sweeping a laser spot across a distant plane from points A to B. You can make that spot move across the plane, but a can't somehow use at super luminal speeds. And when we think in terms of causality, we see that action at a It may be non-local, What's so strange about this realization is that quantum mechanics from totally different starting points to describe vastly different scales. As I said earlier, there's no relativity built into the vanilla That's done through quantum field theory. But even with this simplified picture, we arrive at the result that the speed of causality is protected. When two vastly different theories, both supported by overwhelming arrive completely independently well, there is a sense that we are gluing some deeper truth here, that these are not mere they're either a feature Despite all of this, the Theoretical physics continues to seek ever deeper descriptions And surely, one day we that naturally unifies and maybe even some new truths as well. Whether those new truths to FTL travel feels like Sure, you can go ahead but none of us can claim that Perhaps, part of maturing is the acceptance that the even dedicated to ensuring I know that this isn't the answer that you or I was hoping for. Trust me, I know. But just like with our own lives, praying for a miracle or hoping that your problems will just magically disappear one day doesn't serve as a productive path to making future progress. At a certain point, you just have to accept the and try to make the best of it. And often, what can manifest than you previously imagined. And so, I don't believe in miracles, but I do believe in our ability to make the best of our circumstances. So, until next time. Stay thoughtful and stay curious. (upbeat music) Thank you so much for watching, everybody. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, be sure to click the And if you really wanna help us out, you can click the link up above where you could become a right here at Columbia University, just like our latest two donors. I wanna thank Nicholas Thank you so much for your support. All right, have a cosmically