Not to be dramatic, but concealer is the bane of my existence. It is. It is. As a makeup artist of nearly 20 years, my mature clients would always tell me how, after I used concealer on them, they felt like they looked more wrinkly and older. And I'm going to be honest for about ten of those 20 years. I didn't get it. I had no idea what the hell they were talking about. Why would you choose to have dark circles over wearing concealer? I didn't get it. I didn't get it until I did. We all eventually end up getting it. Don't we? Concealer is thick in order to cover up darkness, but thick things and texture, they don't always get along okay. Your wrinkles just end up looking more wrinkly. So for the next five days, I am on a mission to test the best rated concealers from drugstore to luxury to see which one fits best right after application. In the studio lighting, in natural lighting, how you would see it and eight hours later. Come on this journey with me. It's about to start right now. Day one. Here we go. So we are going to be starting with Lancome Tinted Ultra where all over concealer. The highlights of this product. This is matte finish. It's best for dry combo and normal skin which is interesting because I have very oily skin, but because I have so much texture under my eyes, it really, really works really well for my textured under eyes. It doesn't dry up and kick up and make my eyes look super old. It's long wearing, it's good for dark circles and offers full coverage. It also won the allure 2022 Best of Beauty award, and it really does go on like butter. It has such a beautiful consistency. It just glides on the skin so beautifully. Whenever I do concealer under the eyes, 99.9% of the time I use this brush. This is BC beauty A506. Let's zoom in. This is how my under eyes look immediately after application without setting. Now I'm going to a birthday party today. It's my friend's birthday party. It's actually a Y2K themed birthday party. I'm very excited about it. But because I have such a long day, I'm going to fully set my entire face. So I am setting with the Huda Beauty baby bake, loose baking and setting powder in the color banana bread. This powder is so amazing it makes my face look instantly filtered, doesn't it? It is like an oily person's best friend. Now to set under the eyes because we don't want to overdraw under the eyes. I'm actually going to use this brush. This is Nikki La Rose N14. I'm going to swirl some of that powder on my hand. I'm going to look up and smooth out any creases, because if you put powder when you already have creases, your creases will be set like that. So smooth out your creases and then you can push the powder by stippling under the eyes. Okay. Now I'm just going to do some contouring and some highlighting finishing off the face and I'll show you what the under eyes look like. After all of that. This is how my under eyes look when the makeup is complete. So immediately after this, I realize that I forgot to take a thumbnail photo for my Travel Essentials video that is already on the channel now in the future, since this is going live after that video. So I change out of my gray bodysuit into the bodysuit that I wore in that video, went back into the studio, took those thumbnail shots, edited those thumbnail shots, and then sent them to my thumbnail designer to then design the thumbnail after all of that, I realized that I forgot to take the after shot in natural light. This is how my brain works on a daily basis. About an hour later, this is how my under eyes looked in natural light, unfiltered. Eight hours later, right before heading off to the Y2K birthday party, this is how my under eyes looked in studio lighting. Throughout the night, as you can see, it started looking a little dry actually, and emphasizing some fine lines. But at that point, let's be real, I really couldn't care less because I was transported back into the early 2000's when I had no fine lines, and clearly I was just living my best life. Before we move on to concealer day two, I just want to let you guys know that lines and texture under my eyes is my biggest skincare concern and issue. It's an issue that I share about a lot here on the channel. I've made a lot of videos about it and it's something that makes me really self-conscious in real life. Honestly, it does. It's just that thing we all have our thing. That's my thing. So I am very excited to have a sponsor a part of today's video, because this beauty device, this guy is one that I use regularly. I'm very committed to this device. So before I started regularly using the Mirror Pro, my under eyes were way worse than they are now. And you can actually see it in this clip here from a video that I did a little while ago. I have seen so much improvement after I started using this, and that is because this laser works by promoting collagen production, which can then help firm and tighten the skin around the eyes, making the eyes look more youthful. Right? Since I'm pretty young still, I don't want to go into the more invasive surgical roots. I am just not interested in that at all right now. I've looked into getting PRP, I've looked into like a bunch of things, and I just I'm just not interested in that right now. This is a really great noninvasive option to help improve the appearance of the skin around the eyes of my skin right from home. So something that's pretty amazing about this device is that it is 200 times more powerful than LED. And we already love LED up in here, right? I love LED. This is even more powerful than that, which is incredible. And it uses the same laser chip as professional dermatology systems, which means it delivers clinical grade results. So on the website you will see here that there is the mirror precision laser that has a small tip, which is great for targeting the areas around the eyes and the mouth. But you can also get the Pro laser with a larger tip, and that's great for targeting the full face, right? Fine lines and wrinkles on the full face, the neck, the chest, even the backs of the hands. Both of these lasers are available separately, but you can get the whole package as a bundle. And that's the package that I have. So if you struggle like I do with those fine lines or or with crepiness right around the eyes, or even if you have mild to moderate under-eye puffiness, which is just due to aging. I highly recommend getting this. And now was the perfect time to do it because there is a 20% off sale during Black Friday, so don't miss it you guys! This really is an awesome holiday gift idea for a loved one or just for yourself because you deserve it. So I will leave all of that information for you in the description box below, as I always do. On today two. Westman Atelier Vital Skincare Concealer. I hope this is a good one for today because these undereyes are tired. Product highlights for this guy. So this is good for dark circles. It's hydrating, it's clean at Sephora. I know that's important to a lot of you guys. There is a natural finish and it's non-comedogenic. This is a buildable coverage under-eye concealer clinically shown to reduce the look of dark circles featuring serums, strength skincare to hydrate, visibly brighten and soothe medium coverage. So this is not as full as the Lancome Natural Finish Liquid formula for keeping the placement the exact same for all the concealer, so we can test them fairly upon first impression. This is actually going on like a dream. Really, really pretty consistency. Zoom on in, get nice and close to my face. Something that's really nice about this is it offers a pretty decent amount of coverage, but it doesn't feel super heavy and cakey at all. We'll have to see how this wears throughout the day, because for it to be Lancome, because I really, really love that concealer, it's going to be tough, but we'll have to see. So let's just set it now. This is how my concealer looks immediately after application in studio lighting. This is how my concealer looks in natural lighting. Today was a typical Saturday for me. I snuggled my bunny named Pom Pom, who just happens to also be the love of my life. And then her and I went to tidy up my bedroom, as we do every morning. And that's when I was hit with a moment of inspiration. And that inspiration was in my bedroom, a complete and total makeover from my Bedroom Ideas Pinterest board. But before that, I decided to take a nap with my son, and then after that, I decided to take a nap by myself because I never go out and I was dead. Once I somewhat recovered, I dragged my entire family with me against their will to the mall and bought a whole new sheet set. Look, isn't this the right color in the Pinterest inspiration? What do you think? good? On my way home and with a car full of boys? Welcome to my life. I did a little natural light check in. Do you guys think my concealer looks good? Yep. Do you think my concealer looks good? It looks amazing. I can't believe it's lasted all day. Can't throw it now. Can't throw it now. Then I spent the next hour changing and ironing my bedroom set, only to realize that there was so much more work to be done here. And this makeover was definitely not complete. It's going to get so much better than this. Just keep watching. Day three. Here we go. This is the Nyx bear with Me concealer serum. This has a non cakey finish with a lightweight feel. It's not made specifically for under the eyes. It's a concealer for the whole entire face. And the way that they say to use it is to apply one pump affair with me concealer serum to the skin using a blending brush. Applied two pumps on problem areas like dark circles, acne blemishes, redness, irritation for medium coverage. So I guess what they're saying this. This is more of a light coverage. With more product, you can build it up to a medium. The only thing with that is there's no way you need two pumps under your eyes. That's like an outrageous amount of concealer. But let's get started with it and we'll see how it applies and how it lasts throughout the day. This is such a great drugstore concealer. Even if you look at it before it's blended. It's so creamy. It's so illuminating without being drying or cakey. And I don't find that it's a light coverage. You know, they say that you apply two pumps for medium coverage. I think that this is more on the full coverage side, but it's just not cakey, which is really nice. It's not overly thick. Okay, let's set everything. This is how the Nyx concealer looks immediately after application in studio lighting. And this is how the concealer looks in natural lighting. So right after this I went live on my friend Justin Hickox's Channel to debunk some hair myths. And then it was back to Project Pinterest bedroom. I wanted my bedroom to feel really warm and comfortable right when you walk in, so we needed to integrate some deeper colors like deeper browns and richer greens, and we definitely needed a lot of greenery in order to get that earthy vibe. I actually had a real money tree in my bedroom for a while, but it wasn't doing well since we don't get a lot of natural light in that room. So I decided to just fill up the room with faux plants instead. They look great. There's not as much guesswork, and you don't have to care for them, so it's a win win. By the way, this is how my concealer looked a couple of hours later in natural light. When I got back home, I brought all of my decor upstairs and immediately started setting everything up. Look how much better things are starting to look now with some deeper green and brown accent pieces like the pillows and the throw, and then the addition of the greenery. It always baffles me how something as simple as a pillow and a plant can change the feeling of a room completely. Of course, all you had to do a little comfy check and it passed with flying colors. You're so cute. Is it comfy? You're comfy. I love it. Hey viewers! Hi viewers, This is how my concealer looks eight hours after application. Day four. Day four okay, day four we are doing Haus Labs. I was a huge fan of this concealer. When I bought this concealer, I was instantly impressed. Absolutely loved it, talked about it multiple videos before. I love this concealer. Since then I've tried so many different concealers. It's kind of been at the bottom of my drawer, but I'm very excited to see how this is going to compare to the other one. It's hydrating, it's good for acne and blemishes. It's clean at Sephora, it's good for dark circles. It's a community favorite and it's Allure 2024 Best of Beauty Award winner. I love those, I love the best of the award winners. And that's 2024, which is now so very good. Long wearing Non-comedogenic concealer that visibly blurs, brightens and conceals with medium buildable coverage that departs after two weeks of daily use. So it is a medium coverage with a natural finish. And it's a liquid formula. Obviously, the thing with this concealer that's so nice is it just has such a creamy consistency. I love it, but we'll see how it lasts for the whole entire day compared to its other very competitive, very good brothers and sisters. Right? Let's see. This is how it looks immediately after application in studio lighting. And this is how the concealer looks in natural lighting. This day wasn't that eventful, to be honest, because on Mondays all I do is write scripts, edit videos, talk to my YouTube team and I wear my sweatpants all day. I also cook, I clean the kitchen, get ready for the week, and I open PR packages and test products with my son who loves doing that with me this much. This is how my concealer looked eight hours later. Day five. Okay, today we're going to be doing Maybelline Instant Age Rewind Eraser. When this first launched on the market, everyone was obsessed with it. It was all over social media. You couldn't scroll Instagram without seeing like ten reels about this. People were highlighting with it. They were contouring with it. They were brightening with everything that was happening on the face was happening with this concealer. So we have to see if it's actually that good, right? So let's read what makes this special. Makes the eye area appear radiant and refreshed in no time. Get up to 12 hours of moisturizing wear for crease resistant coverage and a sponge tip applicator. Incinerator is vegan, non-comedogenic, and formulated without mineral oil, parabens, or talc. This is everything. I have to admit that I do really love the sponge tip applicator. I find it really easy to work with. My first impression of this concealer ages ago when I got it. You guys can see how much of it I've used. I've used so much of it, was really positive. I actually found it to be quite an amazing drugstore concealer sitting at a fantastic price point. The higher end concealers are just so much more money. And that's why I wanted to do this video, because I wanted to show what it looks like right after you apply it, what it looks like a few hours later, what it looks like in natural light. Because if you can spend less than $20 on a concealer, or you're spending like $60 on a concealer, is it worth it? You know, is there enough of a difference other than beautiful packaging to make it worth it? And that is what we are going to answer today. So zoom right in and take a look at it before setting. Let me set finish up the makeup and then we can have a closer look. This is how my concealer looked immediately after in studio lighting. And this is how the concealer looks in natural lighting. This is how my concealer looks. Eight hours after application. My bedroom project this week has taken up way too much of my time. The most annoying thing is that I chose a lot of wicker accents, but Pom Pom is obsessed with chewing on wicker, so she's already ruined some parts of the room. So her and I are going to have to have a talk about which room she is allowed in now, and she's not going to be happy about it. I will show you the finished room, but first let's rank our concealers. We are going to rank these elementary school styles. A B C D E. Day one, Lancome I love how it looks right away. It was my day to day concealer for the last several weeks. Several months actually. But what I didn't notice is that it dries out my under eyes after several hours and I noticed that, especially when comparing it to the other ones. It was for sure the most drying of the bunch, so I'm ranking it in the E category. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. It's going in the E category. She was dry. She was dry. What can I say? Westman Ateliers it looked amazing right after application. It looked amazing in natural light. It looked amazing eight hours later. It offered enough coverage, while not caking up and not drying out throughout the day. So I'm going to be placing that guy in the B category just because she's expensive. She's really expensive, so we're just going to knock her down to the B category. If she was more affordable, she would for sure be an A. Nyx. It went on really well and looked great at first, but I did find that at the end of the day, it started settling into those pesky little fine lines and emphasizing them quite a bit. It really did. At the end of the day, it really did emphasize some of those lines. So we're putting it into the D category. Haus Labs, again looked amazing right off the gate. It has a silicone texture that just blurs so beautifully on textured skin. It's the perfect texture for texture, skin, and wear super well, which again is so crucial that one gets drumroll please. The A spot. I loved it back then when I first tried it and I still love it now. I still love it now, especially when comparing it to other concealers. And finally Maybelline. I love the sponge tip applicator. I love the creamy formula and I love how light and breathable it is. It doesn't cover my dark circles completely because it's on the lower coverage side. I must say, when I wear this, I do still see some dark circles, but with that said, it does wear very, very well. So we're putting Maybelline into the C spot. If you have mild to moderate dark circles with lines, you have a lot of texture, but you don't have too much darkness. This may actually be the drugstore concealer of your dreams. Actually, it may be the concealer of your dreams, not just drugstore. And finally, the big room reveal. I can't even believe how such small changes improve the overall ambiance and just the feeling of this entire room. Thanks so much for going on this journey with me this week. You guys let me know what your thoughts are about my room and about the concealers in the comment section below. This video is over.