Welcome everyone to my Azure Master class and this is the V2 version, so new for the end of 2022. Going into 2023 I thought I would update the master class. I first recorded it about two years ago and put on YouTube so there's been enough changes it's worth updating it. The format of this is a little bit different from a lot of my other YouTube content. I did a poll initially when I was working out. How do I want to create this for YouTube? And the majority wanted it to be used PowerPoint and then do some whiteboarding. But not all PowerPoint, not all whiteboard kind of have that hybrid format. So the goal is to have that mixture of the PowerPoint and the whiteboard and the demo. The amounts will vary depending on what exact module we're covering. And talking to modules. So the agenda for this is broken down into modules. This lets me potentially change them overtime. So this first main module be cloud and Microsoft Azure 101. Just some of the real basic fundamentals. Looking at identity and governance, a really core attribute we need to understand when we think about any environment. Understanding our options are cost, our optimizations when we're using Azure, Azure Storage database services, using virtual networks, so connectivity so that Azure to on premises and maybe even Azure to other cloud connectivity, virtual machines, virtual machine scale sets, building on that to containers to Kubernetes and other types of compute service. Load balancing enabling external connectivity, so want to publish my service outbound to consumers on the Internet. Thinking about high availability, thinking about disaster recovery, business continuity, migration with Azure. Secrets keys. Monitoring and security. And then infrastructure as code, DevOps and then maybe just some other key technologies. And this will all change over time. So my goal really is from that idea of a big meal soup to nuts at the end. Start from the beginning, don't really take anything for granted and then build on it in a logical way to hopefully enable you at the end to architect a solution and be able to operate that solution. Obviously my channel has a ton of deep dives about every area we're going to cover. My goal for this is to make it just like we were sitting in a room and I'm just talking it's not super strict format. I'm not going to go and do a ton of editing. There's this one take, like all my content, and it will be what it will be. But it's designed to give you an understanding of Azure. So obviously the technology does change. I will update the modules overtime. Obviously this is a huge update. It's been two years since the V1 I posted. I'm just rerecording everything to bring everything up to speed. I will potentially add and remove modules in the future. I will reference and link to deeper dive, so make sure in all of my videos read the description. In the description it has the chapters of this video you can jump about, but also links to other content, maybe the handout, maybe there's particular other videos, maybe there's external references that would be helpful to you. Make sure you subscribe and set that notification Bell icon so we'll have our little please subscribe like. It will help you stay up to speed. If I make changes, you'll get notified of those changes and use the playlist. So the dedicated playlist just for the Azure Master class, which is the core videos that I consider, make up this class. Again, that's LinkedIn the description below. And there was a GitHub repo for the handouts for the code that I may use throughout this course. Now, obviously, the cloud and Azure is rapidly changing. It's this Evergreen, this cloud cadence constant, new features, new capabilities. So you need to make sure you stay current. Yes, watching this will get you up to speed at time of recording, so as it's published bits of it will be out of date. I do post a weekly update every Sunday of all the changes over the previous week. It's normally less than 15 minutes. Sometimes it's 5 minutes if there's not many changes, but it's an easy way to stay current. So just invest in yourself 5 to 15 minutes a week and just watch that. And I do talk about the deeper dives I've created that week, as you can say, hey, maybe I'm interested in that. I'll go and watch that particular video. So less than 15 minutes and that's the update. Now the question does always come up, is this geared towards a certain certification? My answer is no. This is an Azure master class. I think of it as hey I want to learn and use Azure. These are the things I think you should know to be productive in that. But that being said, although my focus is to teach you Azure, it will definitely help with both the Azure Fundamentals cert, but I have a separate nine and 1/2 hour course just that is tailored to Azure fundamentals but it's also going to help you the Azure administrator certification. I do cover most of those things. So all that. This was the introduction and this fun little picture is the first time I used to do this course live. You got a coin and a certificate of, so we don't do that here, but it was kind of cool throwback back to 2014. So with that, let's go and get to the content.