He has been called many things: a trickster, But despite his many names, Waluigi, the final Mario doppelgangers, is a man with no known Like the rose in his teeth, he keeps others Only his closest confidant, Wario, has ever But why? Why was he allowed to take a peek behind the Is Wario simply a cherished friend to Waluigi, A brother, perhaps? Maybe a lover? Despite all these questions, there is one Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, the show that's But not today. Because today: Waluigi Time! You know, It's crazy but somehow I've lean, mean, meme machine, Waluigi. For anyone not already intimately familiar was introduced in Mario Tennis 64, just so They actually considered making a Wapeach idea because he was afraid of what kind of actually see a year later in Wario Land 4, Gotta say, not bad, though I'm more of a Anyway, Waluigi was what they went with instead But we're not here to talk about the creation sweet, sweet lore. Over the last 22 years, he's been snubbed give him a game, they won't make him playable this big mystery. All we're told about him prior to the events before challenging the Mario Bros to take Other than that? Nothing. His origins are so ambiguous that his Mario His whole thing is being an enigma wrapped But no longer I say! It's time Waluigi gets the attention he moves. This is Game Theory, I live for solving these And today it's time for us to look past actually is, and not only have we figured his dad is. Spoiler alert, it's someone you're likely Now, when he first appeared on the scene, brother. And that makes a lot of sense, right? The evil counterparts to the Mario brothers when you consider that they combined their which essentially means "bad". BAD Mario, BAD Luigi. Plus there were a lot of direct sources confirming When Mario Tennis was being released, Nintendo's Brother. Nintendo of Europe said it too. On the European website for the Mario Kart weird sibling constructed this high-speed There's also a series of articles that appeared 2001 and 2003 called Wario's Warehouse. There, again, Waluigi is referred to as Wario's "Naturally I let Waluigi go first with the After my beanpole of a brother had slipped I followed...and promptly got stuck." Now, these are things that Nintendo of Japan course of three years. Of course, this is Nintendo we're talking There's a news brief in Mario &amp; Sonic at says Wario and Waluigi aren't brothers. That's it, that is all it says, it is very In Mario Super Sluggers, Wario refers to Waluigi also matches what Charles Martinet, the voice to believe. He said once in an interview, quote "I don't I don't think so... I think they're just two nice, evil guys who And then Nintendo just decided to own up to Brawl, where Waluigi's trophies describe it's "unclear" or "a mystery." So if they're not brothers, then who is Is he actor-for-hire Jimmy Poppadopalous? A rogue taco chef? A manifestation of Luigi's own insecurities? No. No. Hold on there, Brian David Gilbert. Let's not jump to conclusions. Because while Nintendo's words say many one part of him that's undeniable and unchanging: That's right theorists, it's time for Let's talk about some traits that we've eye color. If these two were intended to be brothers, their design to be the same. So let's look at that. Both Wario and Waluigi have blue-gray eyes. If one of them had brown eyes, which is the being related would go way down, so the fact eye tends to strengthen the idea that they They also have the same blue rim around their sleep for the last week, which, hey, I feel Admittedly, this is a weird connection, and But you know what? I'm not going to turn down any evidence, That's not the only thing either. Their noses also scream "we're related". Obviously, the shapes are very different, Wario's being much wider and rounded. Then again, both of them are hot pink, as ever. That cannot be a coincidence. I mean, I challenge you to come up with someone Really? Birdo is the long-lost relative of Wario and You know what? not a bad idea, I'm gonna write that one But in all seriousness, with almost no other nose as them, it seems pretty obvious that Also, while researching I stumbled across don't have the pink noses. Cannot...unsee. That said, the cherry on top of our genetics of videos, the ears. They both have themselves detached earlobes, in the Mario franchise have earlobes that That means that they're more likely to be that wasn't the most interesting part here. What really caught my attention was the fact This appears to be an exaggerated form of Ear which gives the ear a pointed, elf-like That's why the nicknames for this condition Rough estimates put it at occurring in less Because of how rare it is, there's actually but the general consensus is that it's likely identical twins. Now, obviously this doesn't prove that Wario pointed ears combined with the eyes and the closely related, like brothers. Rather than just some distant cousin, or a So, while not 100% confirmed, it does seem fact, brothers. Just like Waluigi's initial announcement But if you thought I was just going to leave been watching this channel for very long, Consider stomping on that Subscribe button LIKE MY SOUL. Now, While it's certainly cool that we can and Waluigi are brothers, it's not exactly So, I'm going to take it a step further. What if I told you that I can not only prove also prove who the father is? Here's a hint: He's done more than his subscribe buttons like you just did. Need another hint? He's going to appear in the Mario Movie. Still no? Alright, last one: He actually has his own if you will. And if you got that last reference, well done, old. I believe that Waluigi's father is none Spike, from the classic NES game Wrecking In the game, Mario worked as part of a demolition Mario off of platforms or trying to hoard Presumably so Mario couldn't afford the violations. Spike's entry in the Great Mario Character be worse than Wario's. So, he's greedy and resorts to sabotage. I mean what other character does that remind Now admittedly that is some pretty weak-sauce Sure they share some personality traits, but He doesn't even look anything like Wario And you'd be right, provided you were just However, the original Wrecking Crew isn't Spike. In 1998, Japan got the imaginatively titled Foreman Spike makes his triumphant return, Check out the nose. Nintendo decided to make it bright pink, thereby franchise with that design style. You may have also noticed that he's lost game, revealing instead a cleft chin just for these guys's father. Foreman Spike even has a hint of Stahl's If you take a closer look at his sprite art ear has been made slightly pointier. Heck, he even has their signature laugh. This guy is basically what you get if Wario to match. And the connections here aren't just skin In 2001, Spike appeared in the GameBoy Color In it, he has himself two profiles, and they character profile. Both stating that they "trained in secret" Bear in mind, Mobile Golf was made by Camelot, So them sharing descriptions is hardly an They even give Spike the same color scheme Gameboy Color: Beautiful beautiful purple. Waluigi also seems to have carried on the Mario Party-E was a board game for the Game What made it unique is the fact that it used real-world cards to affect what was happening In this title, there's a minigame called lord is operating something that resembles All while surrounded by steel girders and His level is a construction site. More importantly though, is Waluigi's Island Plants is seen demolishing Luigi's property Notice that the Waluigi emblem is on the purple suggesting that Waluigi owns this equipment, like his dear old dad. And that's not all. Nintendo of Europe's website description DS states that Waluigi constructed it himself. And to top it off, his signature kart in Mario It's not even a go-cart, it's an excavator. And not just any excavator either. One that is almost identical to Spike's That's right my friends, Waluigi is canonically Even his dance moves are secretly telling family. In DDR: Mario Mix, do you want to guess what It's a track called Destruction Dance, a Take a listen Coincidence? I think not! Honestly, this is just scratching the surface I have myself a dump truck full of other smaller evidence is actually highlighting a bigger While Waluigi clearly shares strong connections Chin, and large frame, Wario seems to share Waluigi and Spike are in construction, Wario His unlockable signature kart in Mario Kart cutscene in Game &amp; Watch Gallery 4 shows Wario accompanied by his pet chicken, who he loves retrieving his stolen treasure. Wario also seems to have himself some kind occasions Even his Super Mario Strikers Theme is Germanic Plus the big question still remains; if they're this? Well, for that we turn to one particular game, In it, Bowser goes back in time to kidnap the Seven Star Children, even going so far Among those kidnapped children is none other By the end of the game, all of the babies one exception: Wario. Wario overpowers his Stork and instead sits from Bowser's castle. Gotta give it to Nintendo on that one, way But all of this means that Wario never returned His greed drove him to find treasure elsewhere This is why Wario's Great Encyclopedia entry the fact that he has a "Ma" that we hear from Mario Power Tennis. And above everything else, this would explain He doesn't know. Neither of them do because they were separated That night when Kamick came to find the star No wonder Waluigi has issues, could you imagine world in order to find the Star Children, "nah, not that one". Waluigi, once again getting passed over. A trend that would then continue for the rest Anyway, Wario's obsession with greed means on a farm with some German lady while Waluigi eventually growing up to take over the family But just like Mario was drawn to Luigi by and Wario drawn together, without ever truly But hey, that's just a theory! A GAME THEORY! Thanks for watching! And if you liked this episode, why not check Mario question, is Yoshi a Dinosaur or a Dragon? That video is over there on the left. Or if you want something that's a bit more talk about Nintendo buying a movie studio That one is over there on the right. And hey, if that subscribe button is still gray. Please. Please do that. As always my friends, I'll see you next