During the 14th century BC, ancient Egypt reign of the heretical pharaoh Akhenaten. Nefertiti, was a powerful and influential cultural upheaval and even rose to the rank of Her beautiful and elegant limestone bust and legendary figures from the ancient world. Nefertiti is believed to have been born in 1370 BC, but her parentage is still One theory asserts that she is the daughter of a Pharaoh following Tutankhamun's reign. neither Ay nor his wife Tey are ever clearly Tey's only documented relationship to Nefertiti which is an unusual designation for Another theory proposes that she was thereby making her the full This is also unlikely, because none of generally given to the daughter of a pharaoh. Egyptologists links Nefertiti to a who was initially married to Akhenaten's This is due in part to the &quot;The Beautiful Woman Has Come", which has Nefertiti married prince Amenhotep the Fourth became Pharaoh and changed his name to Akhenaten. records show that Nefertiti and Akhenaten having six daughters together, but no sons. Meketaten, Ankhesenamun, Neferneferuaten-Tasherit, Nefertiti held many titles throughout her "Great of Praises", "Lady of Grace", "Sweet King's Wife", "Lady of All Women", and perhaps Akhenaten and Nefertiti were the primary driving this period, forcing the people of Egypt of worshiping a single deity named Aten. of the sun that was originally Artistically, Aten is depicted as a solar disc The famous "Stele of Akhenaten" being touched by the rays of Aten. and even the previous pharaoh Amenhotep above all other gods, but never to the same Queen Nefertiti wielded much greater influence and eventually rose from the rank of consort Nefertiti is depicted beside her other Egyptian queen in history. positions of strength and authority, such as and smiting enemies of the empire. by her exaggeratedly feminine body shape and princesses' repeated presence in art, suggest that Nefertiti designed a commanding tall flat-topped represent a female version of the Khepresh, Thutmose the Third a century earlier. and Nefertiti had declared Aten to not only be the They ordered that temples dedicated to Amun containing any god other than Aten be banned. that they were Aten's only messengers, altogether The aristocracy viewed this sudden shift towards but largely went along with Many priests of Amun hid texts and artifacts, Towards the end of his reign Akhenaten went as gods and demanded that they be worshiped as such. of Egypt's sole pharaoh after the death her name to Neferneferuaten, meaning It's theorized that she might have masqueraded As pharaoh of Egypt, Nefertiti undoubtedly Nefertiti holds the distinction of being after Hatshepsut, and the fifth of a total ancient Egypt's 3,000 year history. to her nine-year-old stepson Tutankhamun, Suppiluliuma the First: "My husband has died and many sons. You might give me one of your sons one of my subjects as a husband... I am afraid." because New Kingdom Egyptian royal Awestruck by Nefertiti's request, Suppliliuma but the marriage never happened because the This attempt to marry a foreigner was likely elite and some have speculated that she was disappeared from the historical record forever. this time or simply surrendered married her daughter Ankhesenamun. the young pharaoh to reject Atenism and restore He also abandoned his parents' city of Amarna Tutankhamun's successors, particularly and Nefertiti's constructions and used the Ironically, Akhenaten and Nefertiti are now ancient Egyptian history, while most of their In 1912, a German archaeological team portrait bust of Nefertiti at the ruins of an The bust was first shown in a and it quickly gained international notice, and beautiful female figures from antiquity. proud to have Nefertiti's bust in Germany's masterpiece, an ornament, a true treasure.&quot; considered returning the bust but Hitler strongly disagreed, saying: The bust was hidden away in a German salt and was discovered by American Egypt requested that the United States but they refused and advised Egypt to take The bust is currently housed in the been on display prior to World War II. one of the biggest mysteries in Many Egyptologists believe that finding most significant discovery since Howard Carter's Through her incredible beauty and unparalleled and become one of the most recognizable and Consider liking, commenting, bell icon below for more videos like this. to visit the History Explained merchandise of new videos.