My advice would be go with the big or the biggest model that you can find, Then using techniques like distilling and there are many others quantization 80% of all AI pilots fail. And that's I did my homework, y'all. Four out of five, just dead on arrival. And yet, everywhere we look, it's So what is actually going on How do pilots go from something And if it is working, when and I am beyond thrilled to ask today. We'll chat first with Anupam Singh, Anupam, thanks so much for coming on. I'm a huge fan of the game Hello, how are you doing? I'm really, really well. Now, Anupam, though about your journey that you took in order I am, two time The second one So if you've ever heard about Hadoop, big data platforms, In what works, what does not work. Well, can you tell me also about some of your experience Then before Roblox and now at Roblox, a little bit of it there, Oh, yeah. So AI, you know, used to be called machine before everybody started calling it AI. So we've been doing machine Take Roblox, for instance. We have had a text filter for our safety where, and let's say our text filter would in line Meaning it's bleeping, but for text. And that always used machine learning. It is invoked around Imagine every one of your text being filtered out. And that was our biggest machine Before all of AI Out of those pilots, It's interesting if you narrow down So we are not trying to boil the ocean. We're not trying to do AGI. You simplify, the problem statement rather than trying to boil everything. And so some of the failed things when we try, try to do too much in one go about the technology. You know, you must have heard something This is all the rage in AI. It's the first, it's the time that I have started calling something time In AI, building a demo is easy, but never confuse the demo Never confuse the demo Can you break that down for me So let's say you have a video building software One of my AI friends calls it party Party trick models is you open your phone I want dolphins riding bicycles on Ocean Comes out and it's beautiful. But firstly, it's not useful to anything. It's a proposal. Nothing. Now, if you want to build a real video which has Ocean Beach, which has dolphins, So the demo sometimes confuses people. I have other companies where people something, and the board assumes We try to avoid that. We try to avoid, irrational exuberance Well, then how widespread is this issue Honestly, because so many models are now available, so many I think it's become more common now the model can almost fool a very complex business use case, I'm curious about where does this usually start though, or within the organization? Does it start in the C-suite or more At some level, it's if you did AI before the large models, You'd have to figure out which neural and then you have to figure out But now, because large models and and many companies are making them but now all of it portends But just because it is easy people confuse it with the with the end, Does that make it almost too easy In some ways, yes. It is very easy to articulate Have a demo ready and in your mind You're not thinking about data quality, user experience. If you take these three away, But if your AI model or it is going to give you factually how do you assure that And those are the last 10% of an AI than the first 90%. So what else are people missing I think, the first one, I would say, such a high scale, We like to give out our features to So from day one, We talk about So it's 4 billion hours of people playing with each other, And we need to think at that scale. So often people will forget the number of tokens And then when you multiply it you're suddenly, your company $100 million straight up. And the bills are running up the way They start very innocuously, and then suddenly it's a huge cash Okay, you've identified a couple So I need your help now some hacks on how to build something So number one, let's talk about cost, On cost, consider whether you really need There's a little bit of an ego battle. It's like, parameter model, but Arvind is using a 10 Oh, obviously Not true. Because if your business problem if your user experience question you can actually work What happens next? A 10 billion parameter model sometimes is 100 times cheaper than, let's say, So it's very important and then, use that constraint to reduce the footprint of your machine I've see now you've got me in two because if I'm going to start small, how When I say start small, I don't mean that you should always start You can start with the biggest model, whether it's your own. Take the biggest model, Let me give you an example. We started on something called Code Millions of creators come to our platform Of course, having a code but we started with a very big model. We actually put it saw that your users are developers Then behind the scenes, because behind the scenes, we changed the model We changed it to a smaller open So my advice would be go with the big or the biggest model that you can find, Then using techniques like distilling and there are many others quantization So that's sort of the first step. Gotcha. Okay. So see if I can make the model smaller. Now let's fast forward some. I've got my pilot and I'm ready to grow So I need a team. How easy is it going to be for me who have the right skills in the That's a brilliant question. Because whenever we think about AI, Whenever we think about models, we start thinking about people But what we have learned here is the magic starts a little before, which is data. So preparing data for AI is very different than preparing data If you remember your business It creates charts. It creates But preparing data for AI is different. You have to create vector embeddings. You have to put it into a vector database. We have learned that right now some of it is art And finding that right mix in the engineer to think about data is sort of the hardest I want to give a shout out, by the way, Especially some engineers I want you to speak Let them know, how can today's engineers If you are a database person start thinking about vector databases. Start thinking about what an embedding It's not that bad. It's still a table. It's still data. Okay, data stays data. So that's one way you can get in. The second, of course, is learn a few model optimization techniques. Not all of us have to go and build GPT. Not all If you want to get your these techniques like RAG, fine tuning, You don't have to do the training And the third kind of engineer talk about performance as such, I But in the end, when you are typing in AI is taking too much time to respond, you So what is software about? Since many decades and a lot of that performance And so if you are a distributed systems you still have a lot to contribute, all of these older Since you're here, we obviously have All right. So in your view, Oh, I thought you would never ask. So so, there's a few things that are that are all active simultaneously. So it's a very exciting time So the first one is, of course, creation You want to create a game. You come to the Roblox platform, We will help you with code Your creation is ready, but now you have to send it out In our case, it's We have about 24 data centers at the edge We have features As a creator, you don't want to spend So that's the creator. Now, let's say you're a user. Now, I don't know about you, but It's got a beautiful white coat got a, you know, weapon Imagine trying to build auto setup on Roblox immediately So just these three things, Behind the scenes though, one of the biggest areas of investment always has been since Roblox was founded And a lot of our AI, AI spin is on safety. Whether you are texting a friend, chatting and whether you can be colorful or not, But the most exciting one pertinent You and I are chatting. This is, you know, a professional setting. If I suddenly used a colorful word, Sure. Now, do you want to be in post-production Right. And so our voice safety effort is that, depending on the context, we will actually immediately identify is safe or not. And that's been To your earlier question about pilots, It seemed very expensive. It seemed the model was too big. It seemed the data quality was not high. In a one year journey. We have addressed each one of these things is the biggest user I can only imagine the colorful language if we just stood outside the door We had this great demo in which our, vice would be talking to our founder and CEO in the town hall, and it would nudge them So it was a pretty impressive demo. Well, then what do you see coming next better and pilots do start improving Firstly, if you live in San Francisco, driverless cars. It's amazing that, literally in real time, this car is able to reason about what it is, seeing, And because San Francisco is very narrow it has to back away So in a way, I feel excited in certain parts of the world. So that's that's part one. Part two, is legitimately about text. You know, I type in something, but the next horizon is image, People are talking about image. Then we are thinking about audio. Then we are thinking about video. And then we might think about the world And for us, of the real world and the virtual world, in the most efficient way It takes too much effort for our creators to take what is in their mind and translate it into working code. We want to sit in between versus today, what you would have to do is and you'd have to learn Imagine you could just say it and out and you and I are playing that That's the future for us at least. So is there a world post code then? Is that what's on the horizon? It's possible. The beauty about AI today, apart there's a lot of failures that we will But every three months an entire set of of assumptions get broken So it's an exciting time, to be working in Then my final question with that is, with everything with creating pilots, do you think that's going to lead since people can feel so confident about it and just jump in, Or do you think that that's going to I'll tell you what we saw here. The sophistication The sophistication will be AI platforms will become smarter to figure out that this is not a good use case, or the inference is too slow, You know how, if you go back to the time you know, ask my boss to give maybe, maybe their credit card And that's it. That's my cloud pilot. Today, entire set of process I think the AI platforms that they will catch these pilots. But I think we should let We should encourage our engineers, to do a lot of new things with AI while the platform constrains what's going on. Okay, Anupam, Listening to you, it makes me feel like the future But today people putting their blood, the light of day still just breaks So I've called in my friend He's going to help me to understand his point of view as one of Nick, welcome back to the show, man. It's really good to see you. Yeah, no, thanks. Thanks for having me. Now, look, developing individual Does it begin Like, like just a fun idea. The biggest thing that I always think designing So if I build this, Who's going to be able to use it? What's the potential? One of the most popular projects was the sign language detection model. And there's been other like a ton of other object floating around YouTube before. But I thought, hey, this one's actually maybe I won't push this to the absolute but if I can give people a start, And I actually had, a father who's actually taking the model And he's using object detection inside of a set of glasses to help identify obstacles, in a way. So I thought that was a really cool sort of evolution of the project Geez, how validating that something that you just dreamt of you know, doing is actually being placed Congratulations on that. Yeah. And, I mean, the funny thing is there's been so many different offshoots been others, but like this one because for the greater good type feel to it It's really gone a lot further. I know They must just like, hit you at all But when you're trying and when you really try to plan a pilot, that the pilots grow up, actually make it far enough Yeah, I think I'm going to switch And then focus a little bit more on as opposed to like personal projects, sort of just go off the wayside, that you mentioned at the start, Whereas, when I'm at work, I'm a lot more driven So I stay within inside of an organization And we actually created this framework One of the first steps any pilot is actually looking And then looking at use case discovery. Those two steps ensure path to begin with. I think we're going to talk about like one of my biggest failures But like the reason that I was working on So I didn't look and identify I didn't do proper use case discovery. And then most importantly, Like, to solve this problem, they're actually going to want to solve Like, I always talk about it, or I'll Like if you're next bleeding, you really Is what we're trying to solve So when it comes to to to actually going through that process, And that all sort of starts Right? So to actually doing workshops stuff can't happen in isolation. It's absolutely critical that that business case that you sit down with the people not not just the project sponsor is this going to be valid to the person their day to day life? And then from there, to be critically engaged at every So, once we sort of decide on that, then, we call the co-creation phase. And keep in mind, like co not just engineers building stuff just hacking away. It's building alongside our clients. And then once we've gone along with a number of playbacks, this off into production right, that there's a bunch of projects and then they never And that happens a lot, right? Like there's a lot of developers there's a lot of pilots being spun up. But if you haven't actually gone looking specifically at a valid use case, a bleeding neck or actually use it So, going through those steps, we bake that into each one of our projects to make sure that they do grow up. When you mentioned the co part, like sum up because just listening, for me, it would be so much fun to brainstorm But at the same time, that also places so much responsibility as one person to stay personally motivated But when you're working with the client, like you can't just shrug it on off of the project anymore. So since you can't plan for everything, so that they can adapt But like at the same time, you can't know So I feel like we're stuck in this circle. So how do you fix it? There is that loop, right? Yeah. Like there's the known knowns, But then there's always going to be This comes with every project, right? It's not just AI projects where something creeps in and it's like, that we didn't mention at the start Part of good project management Right? So like that, like agile project management to build stuff that is absolutely critical to ensuring A lot of the risk, associated that with or mitigated against working alongside the client. Because really quickly, if the client's they'll probably point out like, oh, I need that filter there, or oh, super sensitive and this person shouldn't So co-creating, sort of alleviates a lot of that other concern, So whenever I do pilots, is going to have a potential touchpoint for this potential solution going They need to be saying what we're building, because you never know might impact somebody else So, making sure that that, proactively and not reactively Well, look, it's funny as a listener, I'm like, you know, well, He's got it all together. So how could anything No, not at all. What is it like Bear Grylls, Right, right. So. But I know that that's not true a little earlier So I'm going to kind of push on the wound and I'm going to ask you if you can tell us some more about that Yeah, yeah. Thankfully, so that there's no brand rep damage A while ago, I was doing my master's. And as part of that, And then our startup got picked, to build it out. And the whole premise of it was like an application or like a solution to help throughout a hospital, when you're inside of a hospital is like, and you don't really know And that can really increase the stress when you're going through that process. So you're getting treatment. Now, I thought this was a massive problem because my girlfriend She was going through surgery, Like we went into the hospital ward Like, why are you in this bed? And I was like, as if it's not enough to us at that particular point in time. And so I'm like, like, So I'm like, oh, this is a great idea. Like, we can help improve transparency And that has a knock on effect. There's a bunch of research studies that like reduces the likelihood of It and reduces like a whole ton of, costs associated to that hospital And I'm like, Like I'm like, I'm I can do data science. I can build machine learning models. This is awesome. So we build for like three months. Right. And we just keep building like We actually got a hospital on board Or like to, So we have a meeting where like we, like yep, great. Cool awesome. Build it. So, heads down we build for like Like, so I'm working my day job the incubator from like 6 to 9 p.m., And then I'm working Saturdays with my co-founder, build it, build it, and I'm like, hey, we should really to the client and going, Like, hey, what do you think about this? And at that time we had, he was the one that got us the contact And he's like, hey, at this point, right? Like, you've built more than an MVP. You really should be looking to, like get the client even if they're just token licenses just because they're your foundation I'm like, okay, great. So we've got a product. We, or a minimum viable product. Like it's enough to charge for. So we go to the client like, hey, we've built it, we can hook We went through a ton of regulation and now we're like, We're going to give you for the entire lifetime, And the client's like, yeah, but like, And I'm like, what? Like, what do you mean, like, I'm like, I didn't have as much experience in terms selling and building startups That whole process, and just sat there I don't even know how to interpret that. Like what? Like you don't like there's like, you So I like eventually okay, when, They're like, maybe you should go back And, I was just like, like eventually I and I'm like, oh, this is just like, Like, like three, four months of our lives like, the stuff that we did And it's just like, exhausting. Like I was like, I'm gonna, There's opportunities But like at that point in time, Like I was sitting in that, that, that, that like a demountable room because Or like construction And I was like, oh, man, I can't believe I can't believe we didn't check that this is what they wanted, what they were going And I've just gone, like I could have well ahead of time instead of waiting But I mean, you live in you learn, right? That hurts. You just, and you just painted that room for us. You dragged us back into your trauma. I'm assuming that the reason is because there are quite a few pilots right, that have succeeded. So I know you've got a bunch of those. What made those pilots Because from where I'm sitting, it sounds like maybe a commitment going forth Was that one of the first things you did? Yeah, definitely. So like when we spin up pilots It's not just like, hey, there's a Cool. Let's go do a pilot and start We actually go through, ways of working. So like we set up like what we're going to deliver, So, like, Do they have the sufficient amount of time Because again, it's co-creation, Right. Like we're trying to build stuff Close engagement with the client Like if I look back on like my startup, but it it was like, I want to say So ensuring that you have the right data prepared and the right data I want to say that, like a lot of the that we do now are really successful Like we have the right people And that's not just IBMers, coming together with their right people and make sure that it's successful, like every pilot ends to an executive or like a funder having everyone in the room people are in the room ensures that, that, that, that they know that, hey, it's not just something that some, It's like, this has been a collective, We've scoped this out properly. We found a problem and we've made sure that that and it'll deliver the business value I imagine right now, I hope that that are listening to us, Can you give them one word of advice as they think about whatever pilot it is Just at least one word? My personal favorite is fail fast. Build a prototype as quickly Right? So like build it, go and show it to to going to be using this or buying this. So that's really quickly going to validate what it is that you're building. That, that Right. But if we had built in what we built in two ways before, down into the MVP and said, Or like Will, is this exactly And really quickly, it's a qualifying Super early on. So, failure is not really failure, right? It's just, it's the lesson learned. Yeah. It sounds like you fell in love Oh, man, 100% I was committed. I was like, this is this is so cool. It's going to improve people's lives. It's going to make hospitals way better. Not the hospitals are great it's world changing. Yeah. Like, look, I probably need to go and do a ton more research But now, like, there's so many other problems that I can solve in, like, I'm not a doctor, like I don't know But I was like, I'm vested in this. I want to solve it. Look, so I'm sure that you'll pick Yeah. Just like I'll do it between, sleeping Well, with all that then said, within your time, I really do appreciate It's always a true joy to speak with you. And also thank you again to Anupam. This has been a fantastic episode so we appreciate you all and we will see you back here