This video is sponsored by Teledyne LeCroy. When a train or an electric car is running, you can hear the sound from the motor. Today we're going to talk about why. We've got a couple of motors here. This is a motor removed from an electric car. This is a general-purpose motor. The output of this general-purpose motor is relatively small. If you look at it, it says 750W. However, the mechanism is the same as that of a train motor. I think it would be quicker for you to actually hear what it sounds like. This is the sound that comes out of the trains used by Keihin Electric Express. Probably the most famous of all train running sounds. It's called a &quot;do-re-mi-fa inverter&quot; or something like that. This is the sound of another train running. I think it's a little harder to hear than the Keihin Electric Express train we just saw. Still, I can hear the noise from the train's motor. I think the do-re-mi-fa inverter sound from the Keihin Electric Express train I mentioned earlier is very easy to understand. Most of those train noises are coming from the motor. I'm going to demonstrate it now. We need a lot of things to turn this motor. This is an inverter. These are the parts needed to turn the motor. There are several accessories for this inverter, and the power supply. Now that it's ready, let's actually turn the motor. I've marked this part so you can take a closer look. What you see on the smartphone on the left is the frequency component of the sound. There are a few frequency components that stand out. 1500Hz, 3000Hz, and 4500Hz respectively. I'll try the same thing with the other motors. This is an electric car motor. This was removed from a Mitsubishi i-MiEV. Now this motor doesn't have the rotor part inside. This is the rotor part. This spinning part is called the rotor, and you can do the same thing as before with this part removed. The reason why the motor makes noise is because of a phenomenon called magnetostriction. It is also called magnetic distortion. Magnetostriction is a phenomenon in which the shape of a ferromagnetic material is distorted when a magnetic field is applied to it from the outside. Let's take a closer look at what's inside the motor. First, this part of the motor is called the stator. Stator is made of ferromagnetic material and wound coils The coil is wound on this piece of iron core material. A magnetic field is created by passing an electric current through the coil. The magnetic field created by the electric current magnetizes this iron core material. When this happens, a phenomenon called magnetostriction occurs, which changes the shape of this iron core. Let me explain magnetostriction in more detail. Suppose this is a magnified image of a ferromagnet at a very high magnification. The magnetic domain is the area enclosed by this border. There are many magnetic dipoles in the magnetic domain. Most of the red and blue here are magnetic dipoles. A magnetic dipole, in simple terms, is like a very small magnet. Many magnetic dipoles, which are already very small magnets, come together to form a magnetic domain. All magnetic dipoles in a single magnetic domain have the same direction. But this is only in one magnetic district. For example, if you go to the next magnetic domain, the direction of the dipole is slightly different. And next to it, too, the dipole has a different orientation. Therefore, when this ferromagnetic material is viewed from the outside, it does not behave as a magnet in any way. For example, here is an electromagnet. There's no current flowing through this magnet at the moment. That's why it won't stick to this steel. This is the state where there is no external magnetic field right now. I'll try applying an external magnetic field to this one. For example, suppose we apply a magnetic field from the outside in the direction we did. Then the direction of the magnetic field and the direction of the magnetic dipole will begin to align. At the same time, the magnetic domain moves. This will change the shape of this magnetic material. This is magnetostriction. The shape looks distorted and stretched. Now we're adding the magnetic field in the downward direction, but let's change this to the upward direction. Then this stretched state will return to its original size, and then it will start to grow again. For example, let's say that the direction of this externally applied magnetic field is changed 1,000 times per second. Then this magnetic shape will expand and contract 1000 times per second. When this happens, the vibrations will travel through the air and be heard as sound. The phenomenon of magnetostriction can actually be seen using a microscope. When a magnetic field is applied from the outside, you can see the magnetic domains moving like this You can tell what kind of sound this motor makes by looking at the voltage waveform applied to the motor. In other words, by looking at the voltage waveform output from the inverter, you can tell what kind of sound the motor is making. Measure the voltage waveform with this oscilloscope Before we measure the waveforms, let me introduce today's sponsor, Teledyne LeCroy. Unlike the 8-bit oscilloscopes we usually use, this one is a 12-bit oscilloscope. Basically, an oscilloscope with a higher bit rate is better for measuring waveforms. The reason for this can be seen by zooming in on the waveform. Magnify the waveform on an 8-bit oscilloscope. If you zoom in, the waveform will be jagged and quite different from the original sine wave. If you zoom in on the waveform of the 12-bit oscilloscope, you can see that the jagged edges are gone and the waveform is a smooth sine wave. In other words, if you want to see the fine details of the waveform, use an oscilloscope with a high bit rate. Now we will use this oscilloscope to measure the voltage waveform. I'll look at the voltage of the motor right away. This yellow waveform is the voltage applied to the motor. The red waveform is the current flowing through the motor. Magnify the time of voltage waveform Look at the yellow voltage waveform It's going back and forth between 0V and 60V. This is how the voltage applied to the motor fluctuates. When the voltage fluctuates, the current flowing through the coil changes. Since the current changes, the magnetic flux also changes. Changes in magnetic flux cause magnetostriction in the iron core of the motor. The magnetostrictive vibrations travel through the air and are finally heard as sound. If we look at the frequency component of this voltage, we see something even more interesting The upper waveform is the voltage waveform and the lower waveform is the frequency component of the voltage waveform. The frequency components stand at 1.5 kHz and 3 kHz. Here's what it looks like when you change the frequency range 1.5kHz, 3kHz, 4.5kHz, 6kHz, and so on. In fact, the frequency component of the voltage is almost identical to the frequency component of the sound that we just measured with the smartphone. In other words, if you want to change the frequency of the sound coming out of the motor, you need to change the frequency of the voltage applied to the motor. I'll reprogram the control board to a slightly higher frequency. By simply changing the carrier frequency in this way, the motor can produce a completely different sound! The &quot;do-re-mi-fa&quot; inverter on the Keihin Express train that you hear at the beginning of the video was deliberately changing the carrier frequency in order to get the sound from the motor! By the way, I think the sound coming from the motor of an electric car is a little lower than that of a train. The first reason for this is that the motor is so small that it doesn't make that much noise. There is another reason why we are raising the carrier frequency to a level that is inaudible to the human ear. For example, if the frequency component goes above 15 kHz to 20 kHz, the sound is almost inaudible. So today I talked about why you can hear the sound from the motors of trains and electric cars! Thank you very much for staying with us until the end.