- Hi, I'm Russell and this is Spot. (happy music) So you've probably seen this robot before, maybe hauling a truck or dancing to Bruno Mars' &quot;Uptown Funk.&quot; And my band 'bout that money Break it down Girls hit your hallelujah It's the first of this generation of semi-autonomous, four-legged robots. And it does a lot more than just For about a month now, Boston Dynamics has been leasing units out to industry partners, and seeing how this kind of robot (happy mellow music) When you're standing next to Spot, the striking thing is how It's just under three feet which means it's light enough for a single person to pick up. A lot of the movements you're seeing here are remote controlled by an operator. But Spot has a handful of basic skills it can do automatically. It knows how to climb and even knows how to dance a little. (funky music) (heavy breathing) Spot's not tired at all. Of course, we've seen but few of them had Accelerometers tell Spot if it's moving, and torque sensors in the joints tell it exactly how its If Spot feels itself tipping forward, a protocol kicks in, telling It also has cameras on all four sides, so it can see where to plant its foot. Spot still can't tell the difference between firm ground and loose dirt, which means navigating these dirt piles got a little chaotic. When it does fall, there's a which works most of the time. Although, it did need human assistance when we flipped it into the bottom of a particularly steep ditch. The simplest way to use which uses the same layout as an Xbox. The left joystick moves or strafes left and right, while the right joystick spins it around. You can also use the camera and send it to specific waypoints. Tap a spot on the screen, and Spot will find a way to get there. The controls are really easy to learn, mostly because there isn't so much of it's automatic. Within a couple of minutes, I was able to send Spot wherever I wanted, although it does stop at walls because of the object sensor. At the same time, I didn't get the tight connection that you do with video games or RC cars. You can tell it's more than human pilots. Boston Dynamics is hoping Spot won't need a driver at all. For more complicated tasks, you can chain waypoints together, sending Spot to retrace a path it walked through earlier That could mean checking or taking LIDAR scans of a room from a dozen specific points. This version of Spot mostly but the plan is for it to on its back, like a zoomable camera or the claw it uses to open doors. Industry partners can also for more specialized jobs. Attach a methane detector module, and Spot can check a whole Attach a LIDAR rig, and Spot can make a 3D map of a whole building from the inside. It's a completely new to interact with the physical otherwise be impossible to There's also just It's really fun to do these precise movements, particularly if you have It's not hard to imagine 50 Spots dancing Pikachu-style in a theme park. Right now, Boston Dynamics That's the yellow guy you're seeing here, but they've already started which is what they're loaning out. Eventually, they're hoping but right now there's only Now, Boston Dynamics wouldn't say exactly what those bots are doing, since most of the partnerships They also didn't tell us exactly since technically Spot isn't for sale. All they've told us is that the leases were in the range of what you'd pay to lease a One thing we have to talk about, and there's really no other Some people get really It moves with a precision that we don't see in the natural world. And it stops dead still which can be unsettling. When you watch these videos, there are all sorts of are going to rise up and destroy humanity. There was even a Black But I didn't get that sense in person. Really Spot doesn't For the robot, you're just an obstacle that's too big to step on. At the same time, Boston Dynamics is really where Spot might end up harming a person. Even if it's just by one of the joints. They also said that to any clients who would or build weapons modules which was good to hear. Spot's great at climbing but it doesn't have the social skills to navigate big crowds. And Boston Dynamics has before it can build those skills. But that does mean that for now, you're probably not with lots of people around. The company's thinking oil rigs, maybe a few movie sets, but those are all pretty For now, Spot's really just a platform. A stable base where partners and new software skills. Once people start Spot's going to get smarter fast, and we may start seeing robots (robotic sounds)