Welcome to another Mathologer video. Have been there, done that. To death! Obviously the drill. There, 1+1 is 2, 1+2 is 3, 2+3 is always add to the next term in the sequence. Well, here is something new. Let's add the sum is 1. 1+1 is 2. plus 2 is 4. plus 3 is 7, Plus 8 is 20, obviously. But that's not what I am the sums side by side. Can you spot a surprising Well, have a closer look. There are two numbers And two in the 10s. Can you see it now? I'm up by two. 34-1=33, 21-1=20, 13-1=12 and so on. to a certain Fibonacci number is equal to the to prove that this always works. Maybe give it a leave your thoughts on this in the comments. up to a certain Fibonacci number is always SMALLER The sum up to five is less than the second next because we are going to use it later. Again: The than the second next Fibonacci number. Properly the key component of a super-ingenious, super to inflict on you today. Lots of surprising, fun Okay, apart from Fibonacci, the title of this and why are they playing solitaire? Well, the you will be thinking of. No, it's peg solitaire. standard version of peg solitaire is to jump right at the very center of the board. It's a many people don't realise that peg solitaire is a Here is a painting of a very proper lady of that Anyway, I am sure most of you will have If you are inspired to have another go at it but one of the many peg solitaire apps that come with Here is a quick reminder of A move in peg solitaire consists of jumping with then removing the peg we jumped over. OK, so no second move. There are a few possibilities. There, on, until, after a lot of getting stuck and doing Just as for the Rubik's cube, there is a lot of example, when you play this game, you'll usually board. Here is an example, of such a dead end. one peg left over, it's possible to prove that positions. Why is that? If you're interested, in one of our newspaper columns, which you can no need to do that. I'll also put links to our in the description of this video. OK, we have To be able to compete with Netflix, let's into a life-and-death game, ... by having Obviously, in this real life version of the And so will be all the remaining So, at most one survivor in the basis game. also something for the writers of the second here is a little challenge for you. Imagine really want to save your favourite green soldier. show that the green soldier can never survive. can possibly win the game and survive and which Now for the real challenge. This is the world grid. This world is divided by the red line into The King of the Bottom who is sick of being You are the general of the bottom army and are top kingdom, and to sacrifice as few soldiers as to set up your army at the bottom and then make Not really? Well, it's a war. Did anything ever our deadly game of solitaire. Also, if at any of the solitaire battle challenges ahead of us, board or use the custom online app that I've Okay, ready for war ? Well, at least one thing You definitely need at least one soldier to So, no James Bond missions here. Of course, if you choose wisely who among the soldiers you want to you definitely want to be that guy at the bottom. but at least it wasn't you and you managed How many soldiers do you need to advance starting formation? Easy. At the end of Two steps into the TOP. Well, pretty clear where where did those two guys come from? Well, maybe Working backwards one more step, it's Done. This rotated L formation you want to be the guy on the far Easy. What about three steps into enemy territory? here is an idea: Our rotated L formation got intermediate position that is shifted one step up Again, it's not hard to guess a working initial up L formation. Maybe give it a try yourself. most likely will end up discovering. Let's check There we go, the rotated L shifted one up :) to being able to conquer the entire top kingdom. Okay, to get 1, 2, and 3 steps into the top we hard to see that these are the minimal numbers mysterious, and definitely no pattern jumps 2, 4, 8 screams powers of 2 and so it should be it turns out that you need a minimum of 20 Here is one arrangement of soldiers that achieves this initial formation by solitairing backwards by one. Let's unleash this army on the enemy and Everything is nicely advancing there. Okay. that we've used before just shifted up one step. there, there, there, there. That's the 2 steps two steps up. And, might as well, this is the just shifted three steps up. Okay, major plot twist just around the corner. At clear pattern in the starting formations, not even Still, it's pretty clear how you would go about Just some more backtracking should do the trick, determining the order of magnitude of the next for getting five steps into enemy territory? Will hundreds? Or in the thousands? What do you think? unless you've heard of this before, in which case is impossible to get 5 steps in no matter Pretty amazing, isn't it? How's that for a to do now is show you an ingenious and absolutely amazing fact. This proof is due to the Austrian in 1997 in the Mathematics Magazine. Martin of a 1961 proof by the great John Conway that Numberphile covered the Conway proof back Definitely also worth a look and I'll put now may be a good time to grab a mug of hot The proof that 5 steps in is not possible. Ready? As usual I'll illustrate the proof using that starting with this menacing looking arrow to the yellow square on the 5th row. To begin, associated with the yellow square. Here triangles and every one of these triangles Now, eventually these triangles associated with and any square where this army could possibly move that this formation consists of 12 soldiers and so to how far this formation can move. Let's suppose ACTUAL triangle would have to be a bit larger to as it evolves. But in order to be able to fit Doesn't make any difference as far as explaining triangle with Fibonacci numbers like this. Whoa Can you see how it's made? Let's have a closer All clear? Okay, now we add up all the numbers in the weight of the arrow. Of course, as we are Now the first really nifty thing about the weight will either stay the same or it will the 3 and the 5 get replaced by the 8 and The same will be true every time we jump up as just the Fibonacci rule in action. Going the the weight. Right, as in this example, the 5 giving a smaller weight. There Similarly, you can vertical symmetry axis of the triangle leaves the axis or away from it the weight decreases. of a formation will always either stay the same punchline of the proof. If our arrow formation then of course at that stage of its evolution the Makes sense, right? However, when you actually to calculate its initial weight, you But 52 is not greater or equal to 144 and formation we cannot reach the 144. What Similarly, given any starting formation we can use a monster death triangle to prove that And this then proves that 5 steps in is all the infinitely many starting formations and But it will be once I highlight another amazing that the weight of any starting formation the label of its yellow base square. Wait what? triangle of death the yellow base square has label below the red line contained in the triangle will claiming that any starting formation contained How do we prove this? Well, the weight of our the weight of the orange tip. So all we need is less than 144. Of course, in this special case summing in a way that will work for all possible beginning that I asked you to etch into your mind. after the video to clean the blackboards, the sum up to a certain Fibonacci number is less Alright, to find the weight of the yellow tip, to 13 as in this column is less than the second the sum of this column ... is less than 21. and the weight of the grey bar. Let's split the bar in We'll use the fact that we etched into our minds of the blue bar is less than the second next the weight of the pink bar is less than the second And so the weight of our orange triangle tip Fibonacci numbers 55 and 89. And what's that sum? these consecutive Fibonacci numbers is the next the aid of Fibonacci we've convinced ourselves triangle tip, and therefore also greater than the that tip. How spectacularly nice was that? Okay, weight of any starting formation in this triangle than 34, and so on. And of course the same is true and larger triangles of death. Okay, so with this really finish the proof. Start with your favourite on the 5th row. Then there will be a triangle of possible squares that the formation could possibly Then, as we've seen, in this triangle of death the the yellow target and consequently the formation we can be sure that we cannot advance 5 Sooper dooper nice proof, don't you agree. game that people have considered to get to if in addition to jumps in the vertical and advancing 5 steps is possible. Or if you allow for occupied by two soldiers, you can also get 5 steps infinitely many soldiers and allowing infinitely in a very weird and counterintuitive way. with a plane separating it into two parts. steps you can advance into enemy territory. You game in higher dimensions, etc. And most of these Very nice and powerful stuff. I'll And that's all for today. To finish off army can advance beyond level 5 if