It is difficult to overstate how much Tolkien He is often accredited with creating the fantasy can be seen in all of literature, in language, and peace, nature and industry, sin and redemption, Saying that the Lord of the Rings is a cornerstone meanwhile is an understatement. In this video, we will give the retelling Tolkien's works. These long videos are extremely difficult The War of the Ring finds its origin in the Morgoth in the War of Wrath, his lieutenant Being a Maiar and thus lacking the sheer might power, Sauron used his guile and innate ability He changed his image, disguising himself as In the year 1500 of the Second Age, he used Celebrimbor and the other prominent members into forging the Rings of Power infused with There were twenty such rings, three bestowed nine to the Kings of Men who would later become However, Sauron forged his own ring in secret, upon all others. Upon learning of his treachery, the Elven as when they wore such items Sauron knew of them. The conflict called the War of the Elves began too much for the Elves. Their Kingdoms were devastated and Sauron It was at this time that Barad-Dur and the however, he failed to dominate the Dwarven The Elven king Gil-Galad was pushed all the the aid of the Men of Numenor in the year This led to the Numenorean invasion of Middle-Earth, been fielded by the race of Man in the past. The allied forces won a great victory in 1701 The forces of Sauron were driven from the While he was gathering his strength, the Elves Elrond was appointed the regent of the easternmost Meanwhile, the Numenorians reveled in their the coast of Middle-Earth, oppressing the in the process. At the same time, the sources mention their that the Men were not allowed to sail the life. This divided the Numenorian society into two to their friendship with the Elves and loyalty led by the ambitions of their monarchs slowly Sauron used the animosity between the Men the title of the Lord of the Earth and King His armies attacked the Numenorian cities the ire of the proud Numenorian king Ar-Pharazon. The latter strike back in 3261. Numenorian forces were so overwhelmingly powerful, their lord. The Numenorians walked to Barad-Dur unopposed to the island of Numenor. However, the latter soon worked his way into The foul machinations of Sauron would lead as an advisor poisoning the minds of the people an invasion of the Undying Lands in 3319. Ar-Pharazon and his mighty host landed on the Eru Illuvatar, who in his wrath sunk their people. Nine ships of the Numenorean Faithful were led by Elendil and his two sons Isildur and When their forces were separated the majority would form the Kingdom of Gondor, with the continent to create the Kingdom of Arnor. The survivors merged with the remaining Numenoreans during the apex of Numenorean power. Sauron also survived the Downfall of Numenor, was able to flee to Mordor and retain the The two Numenorean nations in exile were linked High King and maintaining ascendancy over Two fortresses were built in the region of Minas Ithil and Minas Anor. In the meantime, Sauron had finally regained form. Becoming aware of the newly established Exile them. In 3429 his armies attacked Gondor rapidly, Osgiliath. Minas Ithil was lost soon after as the cities who took the city with relative ease. While Anarion held the line in Osgiliath with rushed North to inform his father Elendil Anarion was successful in repelling the invasion of Ithilien. Taking counsel with the Elven leaders, the with Elendil and Gil-Galad providing leadership Two years were spent raising sufficient forces the Dark Lord could bring to bear. With their forces amassing at the watchtower and joining with the forces of Elrond there. From here the Great Alliance crossed the Misty Elves from Mirkwood and Lorien, as well as of Gondor led by Anarion fresh from pushing With this, the war was joined and the Alliance Dark Lord upon Middle-Earth for good and all. The first pitched battle took place at the year 3434, with supreme command of the Alliance However, this grant of command triggered the Kings of Mirkwood and Lorien Oropher and Amdir As both forces deployed their formations, possessed was their cohesion and discipline, were famed far and wide. Yet the two aforementioned kings angered by charged wildly at the immense force of Orcs and fortune by their exploits. Despite making early gains and driving the at arms, the numbers and sheer brutality of casualties among the Elves. Before long the Elves who had foolishly charged back, leaving the fate of the battle on a His plan disrupted by the folly of his comrades, errant Elven contingent with the weight of could muster. The leadership of Gil-Galad ultimately saved the forces of Sauron were decisively beaten, the remainder of the war. Yet this battle was as costly as they come, of Mirkwood and Lorien forces lost due to This left the area permanently scarred by causalities which now blighted the landscape, Marshes, an area avoided by all but the most Thranduil and Amroth would take the titles slain fathers respectively. Taking little time to regroup, Gil-Galad sensed and following the Counsel of the other leaders among them, a decision was taken. The Black Gates were besieged and soon breached now moved even further into Mordor, defeating While ultimate success was not yet guaranteed, by each victory, and with their morale soaring them. Despite severe losses, they maintained an in a plateau to the North of Mordor called Initially, attempts were made to storm Barad-Dur, the immense fortifications which Sauron had a situation. This fortress was created by the dark magic of battlement after battlement and had taken was without any shadow of a doubt the greatest The sight of it drove fear into the besiegers the victory they so desperately required to within the free realms of Middle-Earth. This fortress was also bound to the One Ring remain impossible to fully destroy it, adding such a siege could pose to Gil-Galad and Elendil. The siege would go on for seven years, with the Last Alliance. Countless sorties of Orcs were sent out to with the volleys of arrows, boulders, and harassed the attackers threatened to decimate In the Sixth year of the siege, tragedy struck a missile fired from the walls of Barad-Dur His death caused many woes among the Numenoreans This however increased the determination of those fiery plains. A year later Sauron and his forces sallied conflict and finish the siege and the Last Rows of Elven swordsmen who made up the flower most experienced and battle-hardened of the With Dwarven contingents supporting the remaining Elrond and Gil-Galad held command of the center own respective forces. The blood of Numenor still flowed freely through and as such these warriors remained exceptionally overwhelming Orcish onslaught. Despite their prowess in battle, however, The forces of Mordor surged forward in a tide to use the weight of their numerical advantage astute battle lines assembled before them. While their weapons and armour were deficient their ferocity and crazed devotion to their The battle was joined when the Orcish host forces having been thinned out by the overwhelmingly Elven archers. The lines held as the warriors of the Last an inch, as the famed discipline of the Noldor Despite the increasing pressure which was maintained, with massive casualties inflicted As the battle progressed the Last Alliance cliff before the oncoming tide, the morale seemed that victory now was within the grasp It was at this point that Sauron, in his physical from head to toe and wielding a mace alongside Making for the center of the Alliance formation who had held his servants at bay for so long. Seeing that their lines might now break, Gil reached his full strength yet, on the broken inherent within their people, proving to be As the battle raged around them, the two great Sauron, but paid a heavy price for their courage. Gil Galad was cast down with the heat of Sauron's down by the Maiar, who was wounded in the The sheer weight of the blow drove Sauron on his ethereal aspect and his disappearance In the aftermath, Isildur, who came upon the was heartbroken by the loss of his father. He took up the shattered remnant of Narsil Bending down Isildur cut off the armoured it as his own as weregild. Sauron's spirit fled his physical form, of the Dark Lord and he would forever bear of the Numenorean Exiles. With the defeat of Sauron and his forces at Second Age and the beginning of the Third due to the waning power of the Elves following taken by some to sail to the Undying Lands. At this stage however, the situation was far even with the apparent destruction of the Even before the Last Alliance entered Mordor, passes in the Misty Mountains from the oncoming Seeing the strength of the Free Peoples of the mountains, and were not pursued due to Following the successful siege of Barad-Dur, for the death of his father and brother, made Isildur spent the first two years of the new the realm. He also replanted the sapling of the White brother. The Numenoreans, who remained true to Valar, "Men of the West" in that period. The greater part of his army was sent to Arnor king himself set out for Rivendell in order Moving from Osgiliath, Isildur and his retinue their way towards the Cirith Forn en Andrath inevitably bringing them to Rivendell. The host made its way North to Lorien taking of Greenwood. The Anduin had however flooded forcing the slopes of the eastern bank of the great river. To the left of the company were an imposing their right were hills and forested areas. The Dunedain had been singing marching songs, their scouts had heard an oncoming horde of Acting quickly, Isildur formed his men into in Numenorean. This formation was two men deep and flexible and would favour the Numenoreans who estimated Isildur begrudged the terrain for forcing the Orcs had attacked them earlier in the which was a wedge-shaped formation that would of his retinue to shatter the Orcish lines The battle began with a volley of Orcish arrows, center of the shield wall. The disciplined Numenorians stood strong and over even the largest orc to push back this Isildur was no fool however and seeing the his squire with the shards of his father's them with lord Elrond, before continuing the The battle restarted following this brief to mount around the Numenorean lines, who enemy from the pathway. Believing that the Orcs with their craven as to flee the field, Isildur gave orders The Orcs however had greater numbers than returned in force as the shield wall had begun During this secondary assault the Orcs attacked immense pressure upon the entirety of the With their massive numerical advantage, the to die, their formation beginning to collapse. Isildur's sons Ciryon and Aratan were slain him on the journey - Elevndur urging his father to make it to Rivendell using another road. Isildur said: "I cannot use it. I dread the pain of touching it. And I have not yet found the strength to bend It needs one greater than I know myself to My pride has fallen. It should go to the Keepers of the Three." But he was convinced by his son. Isildur put on the ring of Sauron, which granted the valley, as his retinue paid with their at escape, dying almost to a man. That included Elendur who fought a rearguard Abandoning his arms and armour bar a short in its flooded state the strength of the river pulled further and further towards the marshes He became tangled in the reeds and rushes, finger, who initially felt unmitigated loss burden being taken from him. This feeling of absolution was not to last of Orcish archers spotted this imposing mountain than meeting the unarmoured warrior in hand-to-hand Isildur's body fell back into the river His arms and armour were found in the aftermath be discovered again until hobbit Deagol happened In the meantime, a force of Woodmen who were the Western part of Greenwood had come to They arrived too late however and would only The Disaster at the Gladden Fields had led Isildur's youngest son Valandil was named decision taken during his reign was to refuse between the two Kingdoms. The two Kingdoms however would continue to however following the death of King Earendur and civil war: The Kingdoms of Arthedain, with the King of Arthedain claiming unrecognised In the years that followed, the Kings of the strength in foolish and unnecessary conflicts In the meantime, enemies began to gather to advantage, presenting the greatest threat Meanwhile the Kingdom of Gondor began to prosper, and prospered. Gondor had to deal with an invasion of the and Morgoth. This initial invasion sparked a sixty-year by Turambar, the Ninth King of Gondor who annexed a large area from Rhovanion to Mordor. Gondor entered a Golden Age following this ruled wisely beginning with the reign of Tarannon of Hyarmendacil I in TA 1149. The latter expanded Gondor to its greatest the fringes of Mirkwood in the North to Umbar The military might of Gondor ensured this remarking, "In Gondor precious stones are Yet this Golden Age was about to end, as the the Great Alliance had hoped. During the reign of King Malvegil of Arthedain, head of the Nazgul and bearer of a Ring of of Orcs and other creatures. He drove the Dwarves from their holds and Malvegil's successor Argeleb managed to to sway Rhudaur which had already fallen to Hostilities commenced when the men of Rhudaur in TA 1356. In the Battle of Amon Sul which decided the chief among them the would-be Uniter of the The following years were to prove utterly In TA 1409, Rhudaur was annexed by Angmar attacked Cardolan. The country was devastated, with most of its Amon Sul was razed and the survivors fled Arthedien was invaded next and its capital Grey Havens, Lorien and Rivendell relieved United armies of the Elves led by Elrond defeated left Arthedain as the last human Kingdom in Angmar for six hundred years. The matters to the South were also far from threat, but Gondor's military superiority Easterling host in TA 1248, with the aid of the Rohirrim. Internal discord also played its part: the a princess of Rhovanion and when he died in by Castimir the Captain of the ships. He proved an incapable ruler who caused the Eldacar returned in 1447 and with the help throne, however Osgiliath was sacked and its lost. In the meantime, the sons of Castimir following their own Kingdom which would trouble Gondor These problems didn't allow Gondor to help in stemming the tide. Both nations managed to recover some of their a conquest of Umbar, however the Great Plague In the North, Cardolan was finally left bereft from Angmar, which were spirits of a malicious the former settlements. Gondor's cities were decimated and many The White Tree died in Osgiliath and a sapling capital in 1640. It was said that had an enemy attacked at yet said foes were in as bad of a shape as Arthedain with its sparser population was its population continued to decline during being granted to the Hobbits in TA 1601 forming Gondor and Arthedain survived this dire situation, his Elven allies Lindon and Rivendell, defeating his kingdom what was to be its final repireve. Araval's prowess as a diplomat allowed for not played their part could have brought about However, the forces of the Dark Lord had other nations were to be forever changed by the In TA 1851 a confederation of Easterling tribes Rhovanion, enslaving many of the latter and After five years of these raids the King Narmacil to meet the Wainriders in the field and. The Battle of the Plains was a complete disaster Marhari leading a desperate rear-guard in also killed, effectively ending Rhovanion The remnants of Marhari's people fled into Eotheod under his son Marwhini. However, the majority of Rhovanion was enslaved yet pyrrhic victory with their casualties further into Gondor. The Wainriders were to rule in Rhovanion for unable to turn its eyes to the North, where push into Arthedain. During this period the Eotheod and Gondor opposition against the Wainriders. The Eotheod in particular learned of the 1899 through the enslaved populace which still This led to a pre-emptive strike by King Calimehtar plans to assault the Eotheod in Calenardhon. With this, Marwhini gathered his horsemen become known as the Second Battle of Dagorlad, The King chose not to pursue them however, further weaken them instead, however they not fully successful. The decision not to pursue the Wainriders' alliances with the men of Khand and Harad. The Eotheod again warned Gondor of this King Ondoher alongside King Arvedui of Arthedain Wainriders must have been coordinated by an to the ties between nations renewed in TA Firiel. King Ondoher marched North while his most Ondoher hoped to fight in Dagorlad again, a combined force of Wainriders and Rhun who his sons. The Wainriders' believed Gondor had been lands along Ithilien, yet this was not the to the South. Accumulating the survivors of the Battle at camp utterly routing them. Those who survived drowned in the Dead Marshes, Earnil was named King of Gondor despite Arvedui's both nations under a common banner giving advance by the Witch King, as the Council Rhovanion was freed with its people mostly Gondor at an absolutely critical moment resulting Throughout the entirety of this period Angmar yet hopelessly, making their foes pay for In TA 1974 the Kingdom was finally overrun driving all before him and taking the capital followers to flee. Arvedui drowned in the Icebay of Farochel He was the last King of Arthedain. The Witch King now seemed poised to form his King of Gondor Earnil sent a force commanded he could spare to relieve Arvedui when the This army arrived a year too late as the Kingdom With the Prince of Gondor came men of Rhovanion, Elven Kingdoms, the survivors of Arthedain Shire Historians a company of their finest Seeing that the burned-out shell of Fornost ambush, Earnur moved his forces to a plain to meet the Witch King in open territory. The Armies of Angmar rushed to meet them and cavalry North into the Hills of Evendim to With this the battle began as the might of This assault could have proved catastrophic of infantry who had repulsed the Wainriders The fighting was brutal with casualties beginning the cavalry sensing the pivotal moment in into the rear of Angmar's line. The battle shifted immediately with the surrounded Realising he was all but defeated the Witch Yet he would earn no reprieve there, as the Rivendell up from the South, so caught between Witch King was utterly destroyed. Earnur then challenged the Witch King to around him, his stalwart heart however was under the Witch King's gaze and fled. The Witch King taunted the young Prince before that Glorfindel uttered the famous words to the hand of mortal man would the Witch-king Sauron was immensely pleased by this result import than the loss of Angmar, and as distracted Ithil to the Ringwraiths as their forces were It would later be renamed Minas Morgul or was renamed Minas Tirith or the Tower of the In the North, Aranarth bearing witness to to re-found Arthedain, instead becoming the this rule for 131 years in the wilds of Eriador evil. Following the death of his father Earnur He was immensely capable, but his vanity soon The Witch King played upon this fatal flaw, Remembering the shame he had felt at Fornost, not for the wise counsel of his Steward Mardil The second challenge came in TA 2050 accusing was unable to sway the King from such a foolish Leaving his crown on the tomb of his, Earnur in the plains of Minas Morgul, never to be With this ended the line of Anarion and Gondor who ruled with varying degrees of competency. They were to rule, "Until the King Returned" nor had he named an heir, and the stewards civil war. While Gondor persisted during this period, a group of Easterlings called Balchoth attacked, Seeing that Gondor could not prevail alone, and their ruler Eorl the Young, however hopes slim. Regardless, the army of Gondor prepared to even without any true hope of victory. This battle took place in Calenardhon as Cirion he had to fight or allow the Balchoth to put Six riders had been sent to Eorl. Five of them were killed on the way North, Eorl realising that if Gondor fell his people they were forced to endure under the Wainriders, of mounted archers along the almost 500-mile Unfortunately for Cirion his hopes that the come true. Before he could arrive, the Balchoth built river. The defenders of the fortifications guarding the foe, but were killed and the fortification The Steward attempted to relieve the battered Cirion started retreating North, but here forces were pushed towards the Anduin. The situation looked extremely bleak as the Gondorians. A defence was mounted but they were continuously It was at this point that Eorl's host entered His army crossed the Undeeps and he led a of the enemy force. The prospect of victory urged the Gondorians upon which the Eotheod could destroy the Those who fled from the field were pursued they could, forever ending the threat posed Following on from the battle bonds between as they were granted the almost deserted province and its people the Rohirrim or Eorlingas in Eorl swore an eternal oath of friendship to men of Rohan would answer. A relationship which would prove to be the Meanwhile, in the Northern part of Middle prominence following the culmination of the Kingdom of Arnor at the hands of the Witch This brave and hardy folk provided a counterbalance force of Orcs and Goblins in the Northern Chief among Dwarven realms in wealth and significance Lonely Mountain overlooking the human settlement While Durin's Folk had discovered significant of establishing a settlement here as far back realm was only truly felt following the fall The Dwarves in this Kingdom had delved too of the First Age, a Balrog of Morgoth who Misty Mountains. So in the year TA 1999 King Thrain I led the first King under the Mountain. The minerals and precious stones they found Chief among their possession was the Arkenstone deep within the mountain and for the next emblem of the Kingdom. This was until King Thorin I led his people they were soon set upon by the dragons who forced the dwarves to abandon the Grey Mountains The Dwarves went their own ways with Gror of the Iron Hills and Thorin's great-grandson assume the title of King under the Mountain. Once more the Kingdom prospered becoming the them those with dark intentions. Thror continued to rule ably, joined by his ensured that the line of succession would The future seemed to be bright despite the Thror who now saw the Arkenstone as taking Everything was to change in TA 2770. on a warm afternoon as Thorin was out hunting: the immense shape of a Great Drake, the last Riding towards Erebor, Thorin witnessed what defences, torn asunder. The city of Dale lay in ruin, having been of Erebor now found themselves exiled from Great death and destruction ensued as Smaug vault of Erebor which was filled with gold Thror, his son Thrain and several companions join up with the thousands of survivors, who following his delayed return from his hunting The majority of the survivors relocated to the rest led by Thror exiled themselves in Thror found himself immensely depressed by people, so he gave the last surviving Dwarven Mountain, which included the locations of a key to open such to his son, and alongside Arriving at the Eastern Gate Thror despite the open entrance to the ancestral home of Thror was killed by the local Orcs, while He was allowed to return to his people with in Moria, which was now ruled by Azog. The message was returned to Thrain III, who that the murder must be answered, beginning Between TA 2790-2793 he amassed all the warriors led his men to avenge his father. As they marched the Dwarves took every Goblin their denizens. The War's climax came in the year TA 2799 valley that Thror had been slain years earlier, required. This would become known as the Battle of Azanulbizar willing to give an inch, the fury of the Dwarves gifted to the Orcs. Yet the wound of Thror's death and the war pushed Durin's folk ever onwards. The battle hung on a knife's edge, with was shattered, before hefting a large piece the moniker Oakenshield. It was at this point that the Dwarves of the of the Orcish host, driving them all the way With casualties mounting on either side, Lord Orcish leader who fled into Moria to fight Returning from his flight Azog engaged the Despite his valour, the elderly Dwarf could slain as his son Dain II Ironfoot looked Immediately Dain rushed up the steps avoiding landing a heavy blow to his knee. He then decapitated the slayer of his father war and cementing his legacy amongst Durin's Most of the Orcs and half of the Dwarves were for the Dwarves with half their number slain, Thrain himself lost an eye and was left with Despite this, he urged his people to continue the wisdom of the new Lord of the Iron Hills action. Meanwhile, the son of Azog Bolg swore vengeance Thrain then relocated the remainder of his to prosper. The ring has made Thrain restless and in people and began a journey with a number of Mountain. At this point in time, unbeknownst to the Posing as a necromancer, he instructed his to the stronghold of Dol Guldur in the South Here he was tortured for information, his wander the land a broken soul. The stirrings of the rings and the appearance 5 Maiar to the Middle Earth where they took One of them - Gandalf the Grey, was sent on of the most powerful beings in Middle Earth Dol Guldur. He met with the former King and was given he promised to pass to Thorin. Gandalf also discovered that the Necromancer attack while he was weak, however another Gandalf then sought out Thorin who had begun people. It was at Bree he would meet the King Under Gandalf promised he would aid Thorin in reclaiming with such passion it swayed the Wizard. Gandalf began to make his preparations, sending Kili, Dwalin, Balin, Oin, Gloin, Dori, Nori, in the Shire. Here they hired an unwilling Hobbit Bilbo plan to infiltrate the Lonely Mountain and Setting out from the Shire, the group met by Trolls until the intervention of Gandalf and Spiders. During this early period, they uncovered the had been forged during the First Age in Gondolin, the typical Dwarven misgiving of Elvish weapons The company rested in Rivendell, where Elrond runes on the map which Thror had bestowed The side passage was five feet tall and capable though unfortunately the keyhole could only Sun and last moon of Autumn would shine their Gandalf's group then headed Eastwards towards camped on the front porch of Goblin-Town and Gandalf who had evaded capture orchestrated the Dwarves who then fought their way out Bilbo, however, was knocked unconscious, but and managed to crawl to safety finding a small Continuing down the tunnel Bilbo met a former of the ring for well over five hundred years This led to a contest of riddles with Bilbo's Gollum tried to attack Bilbo, but the latter invisible allowing him to escape and reunite Unfortunately, the Company was now being chased to the top of a number of pine trees. Gandalf began to set pinecones alight and began to set the surrounding landscape alight. Without the intervention of the Eagles of encounter. The Eagles brought them to their Eyrie, they who either appeared as a large hairy powerful At this point, Gandalf departed to join the Despite the difficulties, they managed to Barad-dur. Meanwhile, Beorn provided the remainder of they encountered giant spiders and fought The Wood-Elves of king Thranduil living in citing the previous animosity as precedent. Bilbo, who escaped using the Ring. Bilbo infiltrated Thranduil's Hall and was escape, making use of the barrels to traverse a small settlement of men which Smaug would Support for the Dwarven company was overwhelming, for a number of weeks before pressing on. The Company reached the side door depicted allowing Thorin to open the door. Bilbo, who went forward alone as a scout discovered The dragon sensed the Hobbit, but the power During his surveillance, Bilbo noticed a small Smaug soon discovered that Bilbo was attempting rage and fly out of the fortress. Bilbo urged the company to enter through the their lives as Smaug set the entire area alight. Bilbo told the company of Smaug's intentions a thrush, whose language the Daleman could final descendant of the former Lords of Dale The latter had organised a company of archers When Bard was down to his last arrow, the of Smaug's weakness. Fortunately for the forces of Good, Bard's heirloom of Lord Girion of Dale forged by Bard launched this relic of a former age and The last great Dragon of Middle Earth died Lake-Town in its entirety. Meanwhile, the Company had fortified Erebor seeing the change in Thorin's demeanour poisoned his forefathers, Bilbo kept the jewel Word reached them of the death of Smaug, however, The angered King Thranduil had arrived with and his men in their claims of recompense hands of the dragon they had wakened. Greed and hatred had poisoned Thorin's noble man and elf alike, preferring to defend behind sending a raven to his relative Dain Lord In the meantime, he ordered the company to Bilbo aside to award him with a shirt of mithril reward for his bravery throughout the quest. This affection did not last, as Bilbo, hoping Bard and Thranduil before returning to the The latter perceived this as treachery Bilbo, returned Gandalf among the Elven host. Meanwhile, Dain organised a company of 500 of the War of the Dwarves and Orcs and soon three armies assembled. On the Elvish side were 1000 highly competent supported by some 500 archers and accompanied and Bard respectively. A battle almost ensued between both companies who informed them that innumerable hordes towards them incited by previous hatreds alongside Dain, Thranduil, and Bard agreed that the outnumbered them massively, should be their The generals lined their forces at the spurs on the left and the Elves on the right. A light rear-guard was placed in between the attack allowing them to be encircled and destroyed. Bilbo attempted to sit out the battle on the by Gandalf. The fighting ensued as the Orcs and Wargs them like a sea of locusts. Initially the allied plan worked perfectly point in the center taking massive losses. However, the sheer weight of the numbers ensured part of Allied forces. The second wave was far worse, with orcs scaling Folk from the side and rear while the main point. The allies were hard-pressed and were barely the battle would soon be over. It was at this point a great shout went up Thorin Oakenshield finally realised the folly fellow companions. Their emergence upon the battlefield inspired Their charge was so unexpected and the weapons that the company pushed its way through the faltering allies as they passed. Here they reached the monumentally sized bodyguards their way. Battle lines and tactics soon devolved into being given on either side, and it seemed ultimately favour the Orcs who outnumbered who stood together on that day. It was at this point Bilbo let out the cry, Indeed, the lord of the Great Eagles Gwaihir Folk in their desperate conflict, just as This shout was taken up by the entirety of knocked unconscious by a stray rock to the The battle began to swing finally in favour the Orcish lines in swooping maneuvers relieving and Thorin in the center. However, the engagement, that would be later won when Beorn arrived in his form as a bear Just at this point Thorin attempted to break in the attempt. Beorn seeing this brushed through the Orcish body to safety. Seeing the wounded King Under the Mountain to the fray filled with wrath and seeking He smashed the ranks of Bolg's bodyguards, combat, destroying the morale of the Orcs but unbroken Free Folk to decimate. Panicking and scattering they were slaughtered in Mirkwood as Thranduil's people showed Soon after the battle, Thorin succumbed to with Bilbo ultimately stating, "If more hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world. But, sad or merry, I must leave it now. Farewell." The Battle had been won but at a massive cost, Thorin King Under the Mountain and his nephews and Dwarves. Whereas, on the part of the Orcs the casualties forever shattering the power of the Orcs in base for the Great War which was to come. The Kingdom Under the Mountain was reformed and King of Durin's Folk passing to Dain, Bard as its new King who went on to rebuild These two newly reformed nations would become war against Sauron, while Gandalf had achieved destruction of Smaug who Sauron could have of the Ring. Throughout the Third Age, the Kingdoms of as allies. However, the increasing influence of Sauron human kingdoms preventing them from helping The Dunlendings, who were the original inhabitants north by Eorl's people, and proved to be Invading the region from the West they took in 2710 of the Third Age. Rohan was then ruled by king Helm Hammerhand. One of his vassals - Freca was growing strong of Helm's daughter for his son Wulf. The king refused and mocked Freca, which prompted was killed. Enraged, Helm declared Freca's family the and join the Dunlendings. We don't know how, but Wulf soon became alliance with the Easterlings and the Corsairs During the so-called Long Winter of 2758, it from coming to Rohan's aid, while Wulf Unable to defend against the overwhelming of Isen. The majority of the Rohirrim fled to the fortress or Helm's Deep afterwards, while Edoras Wulf soon killed Haleth and took the capital His armies besieged Suthburg leading to a It is said that Helm fought ferociously, leading and dwindling numbers were too much and sometime of his people. The details are lost, but the siege was lifted got tired of maintaining it. Regardless, the Long Winter was finally over Hildeson used the spring floods and led a where a group of his people had survived, Taking the Dunlendings entirely by surprise, and successfully reclaiming their capital. It is at this point a force of Gondorians combined might prevailed over the invaders Frealaf was then crowned King with an unlikely the White greatest of the Wizards of Middle for the courage of the Horse Lords. Seeing the weaknesses in the Western defences the fortress of Isengard to Saruman alongside be found within its ancient walls. Frealaf was happy with this arrangement, and horses while Saruman would provide a stable Further issues arose for the Rohirrim as the the War of the Dwarves and Orcs, found their This led to numerous raids and much suffering destruction of the last great Orc hold in It was under the reign of Folca's son Folcwine stability and strength. Fortunately, this was just in time for the yet again in 2885. Folcwine sent his sons Folcred and Fastred army of the Haradrim. Although the combined forces of Gondor and the Crossing of Poros, the allied losses were slain, so it was Folcwine's youngest son the Kingdom by squabbling with his advisors of his father. Meanwhile, in what was formerly Arnor, the as the Dunedain protected the remaining inhabitants Great Northern Wars. They were known as the Rangers of the North, hobbits who populated the land. Aranarth the son of the last King of Arnor Dunedain and since his passing there had Hunters in the Dark and protectors of the to surrender to the tide of evil. With each conflict, their numbers dwindled mighty defenders of the North were a mere However, Arathorn's son Aragorn II would Following the death of Arathorn during a battle Aragorn was sent to Rivendell to be fostered the request of his mother his lineage was When he was twenty it was revealed that he one true heir, with Elrond bestowing upon It is also around this time the young Chieftain Arwen. Aragorn met with the wizard Gandalf the Gray the Dunedain to guard the Shire, where the From 2957 to 2980, Aragorn served in the army newly crowned King Thengel and met the young He fought with such valour that it increased countered the rising strength of Mordor in Unfortunately, at this time Saruman's use by his use of the Palantir. He began to make trouble for the Rohirrim of Isengard. Sauron, fully ensconced in his fortress at Orcs and drawn to him were his most powerful His preparations for the coming war were nearing Aragorn then moved to Gondor becoming a Lieutenant a force to Umbar in 2980, burning the corsair However, soon after he left his post to the Arriving in Lorien he asked Arwen to marry His proposal was accepted, but Elrond refused would be King of Arnor and Gondor. Meanwhile, Gandalf visited his old friend convinced the hobbit to leave the ring to one of his final journeys to Rivendell where Gandalf at this stage had become increasingly in fact be more than just a mere Ring of Power. Gandalf asked Aragorn to leave Rangers to owner of the ring - Gollum. In 3017 Aragorn captured Gollum in the Dead in Mirkwood. Gollum was questioned by Gandalf here, revealing by the Dark Lord, revealing the words "Shire" Alarmed by this Gandalf made with all haste allowed Gollum to escape and make his way Gandalf's suspicions started to be confirmed: the weakened states of Rohan and Gondor were superior numbers and managed to surround them Sauron was also an adept strategist and while rendered impotent by Gandalf and his company, The Dark Lord decided to use his strength his strongest opponent despite years of decay Osgiliath was a shell of its former glory and focus placed upon the new capital of Minas Gondor. Positioned on the Anduin River, it provided of miles either up or downstream. Half of the city lay on either side of the task to take the fortress city. If the city should fall it would open up the at this stage of the war may have proved fatal Sauron however, was extremely patient and forces preferred to use the assault as a probing Denethor II, who he had begun to influence This also provided the perfect cover for the journey towards the Shire in search of the The first true battle of the War of the Ring and Haradrim led by the Witch-King of Angmar The sons of the Steward and Captains of Gondor by this assault, but they managed to hastily Soon, the untold numbers began to weigh upon who were supported by the Rangers of Ithilien. Unable to hold ground in fear of the Witch bank by the former King of Angmar's forces. Seeing no other alternative Faramir and Boromir Anduin to be destroyed, while they led a desperate for the bridge to be brought down. The fighting was fierce as the stalwart Gondorians to the last man as each and every one of them failure might be. Fortunately, it was just enough to save the the bridge had been destroyed the two brothers company launched themselves into the powerful to swim to the other bank. The Eastern portion of the city was now fully of the entire city falling. Gandalf at this point received news from another was requested by his superior Saruman the Gandalf wrote a letter to Frodo urging him his way to Isengard. His message never arrived, and Frodo decided Accompanied by fellow Hobbits Samwise Gamgee, barely evaded the Nazgul who had been sent When the Hobbits reached the Prancing Pony that Gandalf was not there. They were instead greeted by a mysterious Unbeknownst to them, Saruman had been swayed the Ring for himself, and when Gandalf refused on the highest level of his tower - Orthanc. Gandalf was rescued by his dear friend the Meanwhile, Aragorn was escorting the Hobbits At the watchtower of Weathertop, they were Frodo, before Aragorn and the hobbits drove This put Frodo's life in immediate danger, Rivendell in order to avail of Elvish healing, They were met by the Elf-Lord Glorfindel, the party to the Ford of Bruinen. Here Elrond unleashed a flood driving off time to save Frodo's life. So began the Council of Elrond on October the free peoples discussed what to do with Eventually, it was decided that it had to Dwarf Gimli son of Gloin, Elven prince of joined Frodo, Merry, Pippin, Sam, Aragorn, of the Ring. On the 25th of December, they set out from the fate of all of Middle Earth. Unable to traverse the Gap of Rohan due to from taking the Pass of Caradhras due to a Wizard, they were forced to take the path They barely survived an attack by the Watcher and a number of days later they came upon them through the entire ordeal. Wherein stood the Tomb of Balin, who had served attempted to retake his ancestral home but Unfortunately, Pippin's clumsiness alerted ensued as a company of Orcs led by a troll The group won the battle and fled, however, Durin's Bane the last of the Great Balrogs Reaching the Bridge of Khazad-Dum, the Balrog forward to meet it, shouting aloud, "You I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder You cannot pass! The dark fire will not avail you, flame of Go back to the Shadow! You cannot pass!" Baiting the Balrog on to the narrow bridge and cast the fiery beast down, before being His last words to his companions were "Fly Elsewhere, Saruman had finally forged an army, Sauron. In doing so he had torn down the trees within to fuel his forges of industry. He ordered Orcish and Dunlending raids upon had begun to corrupt and sway towards inaction The culmination of his experiments on the half Orc half humans, who were many times Yet the true core of their strength lay in unaffected by sunlight, making use of this of his experiments to hunt down the Fellowship. Aragorn, who was now leader of the company, greeted by Galadriel the fairest of all the Frodo offered her the Ring, but she resisted bestowing upon them a number of gifts. The Fellowship passed the famous statues of setting up camp on the Western Side of the Unfortunately, Boromir had slowly been seduced virtues, the weakness that swayed Isildur Giving in to his weakness he attempted to on the ring and used the invisibility it was Realizing that his actions were due to the the camp sorrowful for what had just transpired be confronted by Aragorn. Attempting to present his version of events, that there was more to the argument however The Fellowship then scattered in a misguided being tasked with protecting Merry and Pippin, for Frodo's safety. Fleeing from the initial encounter with Boromir by himself, Frodo met with Samwise Gamgee without him and both of them crossed to the This was only allowed by the distraction caused of Uruk Hai, Boromir came to their aid and of Orcs. More and more Uruks came to assault the group ones they had been tasked with retrieving Fighting like a man possessed Boromir held two Hobbits threw stones at the oncoming enemy more time. Unable to defeat Boromir in hand-to-hand combat, black arrows from behind, eventually bringing his blade in combat, slaying one more Uruk He did not die though and was forced to look now taking them to their master in Isengard Aragorn arrived first with all of the Uruk-Hai dying Companion who lay against a tree pierced broken sword. His final words to Aragorn before he passed only could truly carry, "Farewell Aragorn! Go to Minas Tirith and save my people! I have failed." With this passed Boromir the eldest son of The remnants of the shattered fellowship prepared placing his body alongside his shattered horn him over the falls and unto rest, before turning to recover the captured Hobbits. Meanwhile Frodo and Sam continued their journey and entirely unsure of the way they must take. Following the fierce confrontation between of Khazad-dum, they both fell into the depths Gandalf was burned by the flaming entity on cold lake which almost stilled, but continued Weakened by the ice-cold water the Balrog upon the highest point in Durin's Tower The fighting was brutal, but Gandalf drew down his enemy, finally bringing to an end and the greatest of all evil. The battle had taken ten days and Gandalf fading away following the duel. His body eventually gave in to the weight his spirit did not perish. He was the Istari sent to Middle Earth by was deemed to be incomplete in the face of Age, so He was returned to Middle Earth, with initial landing in Middle Earth. Gandalf was later found by the Lord of the where the remainder of his wounds were healed The Elves bestowed upon him new robes of white of Saruman he was now chief among the Istari. Armed with a new staff of immense power Gandalf War of the Ring. In the meantime, Frodo and Sam, having been time, were ambushed by the former wielder They defeated the broken shell of a hobbit, to kill the deranged being - pity which had him. Instead, Gollum was forced to swear an oath act as a guide to the two hobbits. With his guidance they soon reached the location the War of the Last Alliance. This area now known as the Dead Marshes was a hidden path, they would not have been able Yet even here the eye of Sauron was as keen upon a Fellbeast searching for the Ring. Meanwhile, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas made now altered fundamentally due to the treachery Aragorn who had served with it decades before. King Theoden who, had shown such promise by the time of the War of the Ring he had Unbeknownst to the noble king, his chief counselor, be nicknamed Wormtongue was in the employ food, slowly corrupting his mind and weakening His strategic advice of constant retreat left The king himself was kept in the palace leaving Theoden's son Theodred and his nephew Saruman recognised the need to remove this and soon set in motion his plan to destroy The defenders of the realm knew that they in order to prevent the unification of the The crossing point on the River Isen was crucial army could cross, and Saruman had already a foothold. Theodred learned of this and secretly moved rid of that threat. On February 23, 3019 of the Third Age, the destroying the enemy unit. In the aftermath, Theodred initially displayed decided to defend the crossings against any However, soon the young Prince heard of a On the 24th of February, attempting to pre-empt left three companies of cavalry to guard the and a company of bowmen to meet the forces Unfortunately for him, Saruman had already detachment to the west to lie in wait for Theodred unwittingly walked into the trap Initially, his horsemen crushed a force of with that, the prince dashed headlong into The riders of Rohan still had a chance to by the ambushing force. Their flank lost cohesion and they suffered Seeing his position was untenable, Theodred and Uruk-Hai in fierce pursuit. Here, Grimbold was given command of the troops forming up on a small hilly islet in the center he be forced to retreat. But Isengard had another army on the eastern and two battalions of Orcs attacked the Rohirrim the river being chased by the Orcs the entire The remainder of the Orcs on the Eastern bank then crashed into Theodred's rear, while on the Western bank. Surrounded and outnumbered, Theodred cried His call was answered by Grimbold who led his Liege. Grimbold however would arrive too late, only who Grimbold in his fury struck down. The de facto leader of the Rohirrim now found the King, surrounded and likely to be slaughtered That is until a horn was sounded on the Eastern Another distinguished Captain of Rohan, Elfhelm and surprised Saruman's forces, who were dangerous for the Orcs. Isengard's soldiers believed that they had fleeing. Two companies were sent to slaughter the fleeing forces to relieve Grimbold on the hill, thundering the beleaguered defenders. The Dunlendings were slaughtered to a man Grimbold's death at the hands of a Dunlending Unfortunately, Theodred lay dying and the he gave his final words before dying moments until Eomer arrives". Theodred's body was buried where he fell while his death made Eomer the heir to the Still, Isengard had more than enough forces After the first battle of Isen, the command Erkenbrand of the Westfold, however until Deep command was shared between Elfhelm and Erkenbrand, a warrior of high esteem, who to his post seeing the threat posed to Rohan, Helm's Deep and ordered a general retreat out to assume his command. While he was on his way, Grimbold was still He stationed his foot soldiers at the Ford on the Eastern Bank where he assumed the attack The force sent by Saruman was comparatively garrisoned there. In early March, the wizard's soldiers attacked, with heavy casualties. Rohan's infantry, helmed by its leader made from Elfhelm, however Warg-Riders had made and threatened to surround Elfhelm's force. Elfhelm, aware of the danger posed to Grimbold encirclement. Seeing torches on the other bank Grimbold to bear down upon his position. He also retreated back to his camp, where The forces of Isengard broke upon this redoubt he could not maintain this line indefinitely. Forming two groups of riders, he sent them South enemy flanks and in the ensuing confusion and join up with the remnants of the army While the army was preserved by the brave invasion. Still, Saruman's plan had been delayed, The army of Erkenbrand was still in the field, advance and Rohirrim slowly dispersed around While these battles were raging, Eomer and and twenty riders of Rohan, had been tracking been carrying Merry and Pippin to Isengard. The mounted Rohirrim were fast, and the fact helped them gain ground. Indeed, the group about to be attacked by a mixed group of Orcs from Moria and Mordor These factions had their own disagreements to avenge their brethren killed by the Fellowship, to bring them to Saruman. At the same time, Grishnakh suspecting that Ring and was eager to bring them to his master At this point, the Orcs stopped and started Eomer's scout to notice them and gallop The argument the enemy was having ended in some of the Orcs to show how serious he is The Orcs and Uruk-Hai would have probably they noticed the approaching Rohan horsemen Their best hope was to enter the nearby forest, the Rohirrim. Eomer was outnumbered almost 2-to-1, but To not allow the Orcs to escape, the horsemen and started pushing them northwest. The Orcs, already tired from their long trek, The stragglers were shot by the Rohirrim arrows, retreated to avoid the Orcish bows. Finally Ugluk creatures reached a small hill encamped on. Eomer didn't attack immediately, probably surrounded the Orcs on 3 sides. Not really fond of the forests, the Orcs were sent a few to scout ahead. None of them returned and Ugluk decided to Hoping that the hobbits can be used as hostages, the Rohirrim attempt to attack. Eomer sent in a few of his scouts, who crawled disappearing. This distracted Ugluk and his rival Grishnakh However, he was discovered by a rider of Rohan The whole commotion in the Orcish camp made was then a new unit of Uruk-Hai entered the Mauhur was leading one of the scouting parties him, but he would ultimately fail, as Eomer the Uruk-Hai. At dawn, the Rohirrim finally attacked the shot the last of their arrows, killing a few. Ugluk amassed his best warriors and attempted Initially, his counter-attack worked and more the leader of the Uruk-Hai, dismounted and of Boromir. The last few Orcs who attempted to flee were In the confusion of the battle the two Hobbits were met by chief of the Ents Treebeard and Treebeard to the Entmoot which would decide Outside of the forest, Eomer met with Aragorn's two horses, before returning to Edoras where the Elf and the Dwarf. For failing to capture and bring these fugitives Left disheartened and believing the Hobbits a stark contrast to Aragorn, whose superior Hobbits yet lived. The three entered the forest, but instead Gandalf. The wizard knew that he needed to help Rohan to win, so summoning the greatest of all Horses the four of them made their way to Edoras. Arriving at the Great Hall and seeing a defeated being corrupted. He deposed King's advisor Grima, casting healing the effects of the poison on Theoden. With the king healed and now of clear mind, Rohan. Gandalf knew that Theoden doesn't have enough him to move to the impregnable Helm's Deep, Initially the king wanted to ignore the wizard's Edoras, while the civilian population was of his niece Eowyn. The king's host moved towards Isen to reinforce the Ford. It was clear that defending at the Helm's left, so Theoden started moving there. Despite being advised by Grima that the walls had devised a solution with his sorcery: the If placed in the weak spot of the Deeping from the Glittering Caves out of the fortress, While the armies of Rohan and Isengard were the Helm's Deep, the ancient race of Ents take and after three days the Entmoot decided to be known as the Last March of the Ents. Theoden arrived at Helm's Deep and met absence of Erkenbrand, Gamling the Old who quality as the majority of the finest fighters With the forces of Theoden, the Rohirrim allowing for the defences to be fully manned. Saruman's army consisted of Uruk-Hai, the due to casualties suffered at the Fords was thousand Uruk-Hai and their auxiliary forces Despite the best preparations of those now situation remained a desperate one, causing enmity of the Elves towards their Dwarven "But you comfort me, Gimli, I'm glad to and your hard axe. I wish there were more of your kin among us. But even more would I give for a hundred good Newly made friends decided to test each other's kill in the upcoming battle. The battle began with the Uruks attacking as the Helm's Dike. This was an ancient trench and rampart about stretched for a mile or more across the valley. It was immensely steep in some places reaching the middle was also extremely wide, allowing casualties before abandoning the fortification. They were able to fill the trench with the retreating back to the fortress proper. Passing the dike, the Uruks launched a hail but received no reply. Deceived by the eerie silence of the defenders surprised by a hail of arrows and rocks forcing Yet even in this disordered state and despite allowed them to push forward and assault the The gate barely held creaking and buckling Requiring time to shore up their defences Gimli and Eomer through a small side gate time. The ploy was successful and the heroes managed As Aragorn and Eomer attempted to retreat set upon by several Orcs and if not for the Dwarf's timely attack pushed the enemy back Despite the best attempts of the uruk-hai, force hefted hundreds of ladders up against sprawling fortification. The defenders who were already exhausted by back assault after assault upon the battlements. Again, seeing the valour of men, a number to crawl through the culvert and attack the Gimli and Gamling led a company of men from had crawled through bringing Gimli's tally twenty-four. The company then set about blocking the culvert however it is at this point that the sorcery Placing the Firs of Orthanc by the wall, a Although Legolas did the best he could with torchbearer in time. The explosion brought down the culvert along Gimli and his company isolated while also A massive host of Uruk-Hai poured through led by Gimli, Eomer and Gamling were pushed Meanwhile Aragorn and Legolas who were atop in a fighting retreat towards the Keep, barely forced to save Aragorn's life from an Orc's At this exact same time the Entish assault from the front, accompanied by Merry and Pippin The rage of the Ents was incomparable, as of Yavanna, one of the Ainur and Valar in created race of the Dwarves and been taught Their strength was also unmatched with Treebeard were stronger than any troll, with Morgoth a force capable of matching them and failing Following on from the Entmoot within Fangorn vent the fury at their failure to fulfill a common purpose of vengeance never before them to enter the War of the Ring. With Isengard having been emptied due to the no match for the might of the Ents accompanied Huorns were an ancient race of slow-moving the Second and Third Ages. Obeying their shepherds they descended upon fear into the hearts of the token garrison had marched to join the Battle of the Hornburg. Treebeard and company tore down their walls Vale, destroying the pits, mines and weapons cleansing the taint of darkness from the Valley. Yet they were unable to break down the tower and as such Saruman was effectively left as When news reached Sauron of this setback he on from his ultimate victory, to grant the servant the Mouth of Sauron. The situation in Helm's Deep was far grimmer. Gimli, Eomer, Gamling and their company barely within the Glittering Caves. While Theoden, Aragorn, Legolas and the surviving Uruk-Hai prepared to make one final push through Aragorn appeared just before dawn, to offer their weapons they would be spared. Laughing at this suggestion they attempted with arrows, almost killing him in the process. Theoden now began to despair before being on in spite of the current desperate circumstances, had become of the Rohirrim: Where is the horn that was blowing? Where is the helm and the hauberk, and the Where is the harp on the harpstring, and the Where is the spring and the harvest and the They have passed like rain on the mountain, The days have gone down in the West behind Who shall gather the smoke of the deadwood Or behold the flowing years from the Sea returning?" Seeing that the defenders were desperate the but were surprised to hear the Horn of Helm Their surprise did not last long, as Theoden burst forth and pushed the Uruk-Hai back along The men of Rohan were roused to particular to the full strength of his character and lay ahead: "Arise now, Arise, Riders of Dire Deeds Awake, Dark is it Eastward. Let horse be bridled, horn be sounded! Forth Eorlingas!" Simultaneously, upon hearing the Horn of Helm their force out of the Glittering Caves driving beyond the Deeping Wall. The Uruk-hai attempted to reform just beyond converged to meet what was still a numerically The battle hung on a knife's edge, with significant advantage in terms of the force It is at this point that Gandalf upon Shadowfax He had brought with him Erkenbrand and a force of the conflicts on the River Isen, led by Likewise, an entirely newly arrived forest of escape. Following Gandalf's lead, the Eorlingas Theoden and Eomer's forces supported the all of the strength their exhausted soldiers The sons of Eorl would prove their valour Uruk-Hai with a ferocity inspired by the men raids on their country. The Uruks soon lost cohesion and broke ranks, fleeing into the newly emerged forest, to Less than half of the ten thousand Uruks were all annihilated by the Ents and their younger for good and all in the Riddermark. The battle was a costly victory for the Men shattered in the process. The Dunlendings laid down their weapons and came as a massive surprise to the Wild Men who surrendered would be burned alive by the Those who surrendered were put to work repairing back to their homes in Dunland. Saruman's power was now broken as he remained the events of the War of the Ring ever again. The most important consequence of the Battle over the Elves, as Gimli overtook Legolas to forty-one. While these battles were raging Frodo, Sam and made their way to Ithilien, where they army - the Ithilien Rangers. During an interrogation conducted by Faramir, that Frodo bore the Ring, but fortunately proved his quality to be of the highest order. Recognising the importance of their quest journey, which headed towards the Morgul Vale He would face massive consequences for such it a slight price to pay, stating, "But I would not take this thing, if it lay by Not were Minas Tirith falling in ruin and of the Dark Lord for her good and my glory. No, I do not wish for such triumphs, Frodo Seeing his ally utterly destroyed, Sauron the gleaming white bastion of Minas Tirith. If Sauron's true strength could be brought its call for aid, the Age of Man would fall Sauron. Yet despite the might with which he could still knew fear as the Ranger from the North as King of Gondor and the One Ring remained destruction. Following on from the Battle of the Hornburg, Legolas, Gimli, Treebeard, Merry, and Pippin which the Ents could not breach due to its Saruman, who spiteful and proud even in defeat, forcing the white wizard to reluctantly expel his staff and leaving him powerless. Grima Wormtongue also refused the mercy of Palantir at the King narrowly missing him. Ever curious, Pippin dived into the watery the Palantir which had been corrupted by The young hobbit came face to face with the nothing. Still, his presence confirmed the defeat of Sauron's. In the meantime, Saruman was left to his own Upon returning to Helm's Deep the group the remaining thirty-one members of the Dunedain the twin sons of Elrond; Elladan and Elrohir. They brought with them advice from Galadriel Arwen, depicting the White Tree upon a black symbolising what was to come. The decision was made that the Heir of Isildur adversary. Gazing deep within the Palantir and holding Aragorn confronted the Dark Lord revealing as King of Gondor. Believing that Aragorn was now in possession all of the Free Folk of Middle Earth behind His well laid plans were hastened as he now before Aragorn could assume the throne. Having been shown the sheer might of Sauron's also forced to take desperate measures, in to walk the Paths of the Dead in order to Gandalf left the King to continue his muster, all the haste his mount Shadowfax could muster Echor or the Long Wall as it was often called. This fortification served as Minas Tirith's consisting of a large wall which took an elliptical At its centre stood the causeway forts, twin yet as was a sign of the decaying strength to the elements for many years and when passing and desperate attempts to patch up the fortifications. Further adding to the woes of the Gondorians, man the unwieldy defences. Arriving at the city, Pippin was overtaken was not as impressed seeing a city resigned had been sent out into the fiefdoms of the out by the Steward Denethor. However, the threat of an incoming fleet of numbers sent from the outlying regions of The muster itself amounted to 200 well-armed 500 bowmen from Morthond, 150 scantily equipped 100 fisher-folk from Ethir Anduin, 300 from The latter were led by the Prince of Dol Amroth role in the defence of the city. He brought with him the very flower of the Swan Knights - the only known horsemen in Rohirrim allies. While each of these men did not lack for valour their strength and numbers were lower than Arriving within the Tower of Ecthelion, Gandalf of Denethor Steward of Gondor, who appeared of his son Boromir, as well as the pervading Palantir of Minas Tirith. Pippin feeling responsible for the loss of at Amon Hen, immediately pledged himself to service, of Rangers of Ithillien to reinforce the garrison chased by the Fell Beasts of the Nazgul and timely intervention of Gandalf who flew through He revealed his true power upon that day, power and even making the Witch King recoil such a human emotion. Faramir then informed his father as well as and Sam as well as their continued travels Denethor was furious with the failure of his that he had lived and Boromir had not, before of Osgiliath at all costs. A strategy which Faramir disagreed with knowing Ever the most dutiful of sons Faramir took to his father &quot;Then farewell! But if I should return, think better of me!&quot; your return&quot; in response. Faramir returned to Osgiliath that same day city of which they only maintained control The Eastern portion lay in the hands of a to number between seventy and a hundred thousand, King of Angmar, his lieutenant Gothmog was He had commanded the Orcs stationed on the barges as they could in order to ferry their On the ninth and tenth of March, the Dark the lands of Rohan and Gondor in darkness of the Men of the West as the dawn never arrived. On the same day a behemoth force emerged from the way to Cair Andros, capturing the island force which had completed its muster at Dunharrow, marched from Minas Morgul to bolster the forces Theoden had honoured the pledge of Eorl the among them his niece Eowyn and Merry disguised This was all all he could manage in the time as to whether or not they would arrive in Meanwhile, Aragorn was leading the Grey Company, Dead. His plan was to recruit the Dead Men of Dunharrow, the War of the Last Alliance. As the Heir of Isildur, Aragorn had the ability existence, so the Dead Men joined him. At the same time, the Orcish host alongside on the 11th of March. The Rangers of Ithillien and Gondorian regulars they took through the former capital and proved After a day of fighting however the weight Men of Gondor from the city and forcing them Echor. The fighting was at its fiercest at the Causeway here and knowing that time was of the essence of Mordor. The Rammas Echor was too large a bastion to captain of Gondor and having held another the 13th of March. What started as an orderly withdrawal soon forces of Gondor attempted to make their way offered no cover to Faramir or his men. They were overtaken by the forces of the Dark Faramir was struck down by a poisonous dart and left near death. His men loyal to their captain above all else to the last man if it meant saving their leader. This proved unnecessary, however as Prince getting Denethor's approval. The sheer ferocity and strength of these scions of the remainder of the garrison of Osgilliath, the hearts of the Orcs and Southrons who themselves With Gandalf once more driving off the Nazgul once more, Imrahil coming upon the stricken upon his horse and rode back to the city with Upon hearing of his son's injury Denethor within the White Tower preparing a pyre for protestations. That left the defence of the city to Gandalf Imrahil, with the regular forces of Gondor While the defeat at Osgiliath had been resounding capable leader for the battle which was to defence would prove pivotal in giving time oaths. This had been symbolised by the Red Arrow at Dunharrow, a gesture which once again called Not long after the defeat at the Rammas Echor last great Captains of Gondor Faramir, the Pelennor. The Witch-King brought with him tens of thousands alongside oliphants and trolls. They began to build siege equipment and dug consisting of both Orcs and Easterlings was arrival of the Rohirrim. Here they also dug trenches and placed wooden advantage of the Rohirrim cavalry which remained settling into their fortifications. The siege began on the thirteenth of March, defences of Minas Tirith with a massive bombardment This initial attempt failed miserably as the by the Numenoreans using black rock and was This forced the forces of Mordor to change over the wall setting the Lower City ablaze. The Orcs also began firing salvoes of the in an attempt to destroy the defender's In response to this, Gandalf accompanied by inspiring all who they met to remain steadfast gates. On the same day, Aragorn meeting with the his way to meet with the corsair fleet which This force consisted of archers from the Blackroot Lamedon and a number of other less distinguished in the battle to come. The forces of the King intercepted the Corsair in what would later become known as the Battle on Gondorian soil since he served in the employ many years past. The Corsairs who were not famed for their plunder every port town they came across during forces caught them right in the middle of The latter quickly divided his troops among pick off the smaller looting parties of the At the same time, the forces of the Dead cut struck by such fear that many jumped from rather than face them. In this way, Aragorn quickly liberated the Pelargir his troops could swiftly make their Gondor. Aragorn was, however, a man of his word, and torment announcing that their oaths had been on its way. While the first attempts at breaking the morale of Gandalf and Imrahil, the Easterlings using closer to the wall during the night and the The men of Gondor held firm however repulsing destroying many of their siege towers in the Unfortunately for them, the necessity of defending meant that the Great Gate, which was the only could not be defended sufficiently. Here Gandalf and Imrahil positioned themselves casualties on the part of the besiegers immense to give any ground in spite of the unending While the odds seemed stacked against them for reinforcements, the Rohirrim had progressed attempts to reach the city. This was due to the aid of Ghan-buri-Ghan Forest, an ancient race of men who dwelt within of the Dark Lord despite his growing influence Though small in number and in stature they hit and run tactics, as well as exceptionally When Theoden and his six thousand arrived by Ghan-buri-Ghan and a company of his men, his path to Minas Tirith. Sensing the urgency of the situation the Chieftain Mark through the forest, bypassing the force at the Rammas Echor at dawn on March fifteenth. The situation in Minas Tirith despite the The forces of Mordor had brought forth a great of the Warhammer which the original dark lord since passed. This Hammer of the Underworld had been forged for the purpose of bringing down the Great The siege work itself was sixty feet in height harsh metals it maintained a permanent flame used in its creation and would require a great Despite its sturdiness, the Great Gate was of the Third Age and was weakened by the Witch According to our primary source on the battle, And suddenly upon the last stroke, the Gate As if stricken by some blasting spell it burst and the doors tumbled in riven fragments to The gate had been destroyed utterly and the the city by force, the Witch-King upon his the battle to be all but won. Standing before him in the Courtyard of Kings who confronted the greatest servant of the ready to destroy the greatest city of man. The Witch-King was at first uncertain, having could bring to bear, so the standoff continued time. Just as the two looked set to finally test a horn was heard far off in the fields of White Wizard recognised: the sons of Eorl now resting upon their intervention. The Witch-King quickly fled the courtyard now faced, however, Gandalf could not give of the fate of Faramir. Denethor having made use of the Palantir madness and with his will now broke sought Unfortunately believing his son was now dying his and had ordered a pyre to be constructed Pippin protested and was ejected from the Citadel, whose love of Faramir overrode his the burial chambers of the Kings of Gondor, Pippin sought out Gandalf's aid. When Gandalf arrived with Pippin they saw of the attendants in an attempt to delay the Gandalf was able to save Faramir, however, even in knowing his son would survive, he So ended the life of Denethor, who would be by evil. King Theoden of Rohan emerged upon a hillock head of six thousand Riders of Rohan, where not falter despite the immensity of the fight The ranks of Orcs and Southrons now turned from nowhere, they had been caught unawares formations to face what was to come. Theoden turning to his men organised his darkness that day, before addressing the six Kings to ever have sat upon the throne of "Arise, arise, Riders of Theoden! Fell deeds awake: fire and slaughter! spear shall be shaken, shield be splintered, The chant of "Death" was taken up by the cheers, and horn blasts filled the air, further Lord. Before Theoden pulled his horse Snowmane a light jolt to the side of his trusty mount a thundering of hooves that had never before The six thousand of Rohan crashed forward, arranged in a pike formation. The servants of Sauron were powerless to stop under the hooves of the King and his men with Sensing the desperation of the situation, a counter-charge meeting Theoden head-on The fight dragged on yet the old king did all of the vigour of a man half his age. The Haradrim was further slaughtered as the in their path killing their king, until Theoden The Witch-King of Angmar on his fell beast under the weight of his beloved steed. The sheer terror the Lord of the Nazgul instilled save for one who was known to his comrades It was in fact the King's niece Eowyn disguised Unwilling to bow before the terror of the the same courage her King had moments earlier. The Witch-King then confidently stated that, Shieldmaiden of Rohan removed her helmet and You look upon a woman! Eowyn I am, Eomund's daughter. Begone if you be not deathless! For living or dark undead, I will smite you, Now she alone stood before the Lord of the of her beloved uncle, cleaving the beast's The infuriated Witch-King attacked Eowyn shattered her shield breaking her arm in the It is at this point that Meriadoc Brandybuck, he had picked up so long ago in his journey. The dagger this was of the make of the land bringing him to his knees, while also breaking Eowyn then regaining her footing thrust her fulfilling Glorfindel's prophecy at the man would the leader of the Nine be defeated. Badly weakened by the fight she succumbed direct contact with a Nazgul, leaving her Merry then dragged himself closer to the now the dying words of Theoden Lord of the Mark, My body is broken. I go to my fathers. And even in their mighty company I shall not Eomer despite his heartbreak at the loss of his sister, now assumed control of the The charge slowed, but not stopped, continuing The men of Gondor began their own sortie from also inflicting heavy casualties upon the First among them was Imrahil and his mounted the forces of the Dark Lord in an attempt The fighting grew bloody and desperate as alongside the reserves of the Orcs kept the advantage to once more turn the battle in in the absence of their overall commander. It was at this point that the hearts of every of Umbar arrived. Despite thinking that their defeat and destruction Neither side expected Aragorn alongside the to emerge from the ships, yet the impact of of Arwen's banner by Halbarad was felt by The newly arrived Men of the West with Aragorn a wedge through the forces of the Dark Lord, those nearer to the Anduin. None among the servants of Sauron could stand swept aside all who stood in his way cutting Capitalising upon these unexpected reinforcements, forces time and again through repeated cavalry of the great horde and slaughtering them en Most of the host of Mordor was slain, with from their grasp fleeing and being cut down they attempted to cross the Anduin to safety. A large force of Easterlings whose hatred instincts for self-preservation refused to earning the bitter respect of the Men of the Some of the more disciplined Orcs rallied inflicting heavy casualties upon both the were overrun, too, with Aragorn finishing Orcish resistance and the Battle of the Pelennor The losses on both sides were considerable Mordor utterly destroyed. This was of little consequence to Sauron, of Orcs within the plains of Gorgoroth alongside It was the loss of his chief lieutenant the he remained irreplaceable in the eyes of the Casualties suffered by the Men of the West among their number. Eomer estimated that less than four thousand large number of his force's dead, injured All in all, however, Aragorn estimated that coming conflict, the garrison of Minas Tirith now greater than it had been before the siege. Despite his triumphant return to the lands taking counsel from those around him opted The possibility for counter claimants or those King was too great a chance to take at a stage upon a knife's edge. Aragorn sought to act as a healer to his people, barely clung to life. Before turning his attention to the others the city, saving many lives and easing the While these selfless acts immediately won and self-sacrifice exhausted as he was that This also fulfilled the prophecy of Ioreth "The hands of the King are the hands of known." He continued to heal people between March the White City, thereafter symbolically leaving future of Middle Earth had been resolved in were already being made for a final conflict final days of the War of the Last Alliance. Sauron attack on the northern realms was foreseen then Grey Wizard to aid Thorin in his quest Gandalf had seen through the guise of the predicted that Sauron would make use of the to destroy Gondor. The Dragon's death at the hand of Bard severely free peoples of Middle Earth a fighting chance Kingdom of Dale and Kingdom Under the Mountain the forces of Sauron. In TA 3018, Gloin revealed to the Council gates of the Lonely Mountain sent on behalf and the Hobbits, while also asking for them Further, they asked for the submission of when these entreaties were refused dire consequences Messengers likewise approached King Brand Easterlings loyal to the Dark Lord began to Likewise in the realm of Thranduil and that encroaching ever further from Dol Guldur into they would not be left unscathed in the coming Thranduil, Celeborn, and Galadriel made what finest warriors of the Elves had at this stage the respective Elvish forces weakened. This Northern Theatre of the War of the Ring, races of Elves and Dwarves against the ascendant of pitched battles remaining exceptionally War would first come to Dale however, as on Easterling host crossed the borders of the city. The Easterlings were mainly composed of well-equipped the forces of Dale and the Lonely Mountain River given their numbers. Kings Brand and Dain II quickly assembled there were two and a half thousand Dwarves three and a half thousand men of Dale, compared of Easterlings. This assault coincided with the siege of Minas to Gondor from the North, tying down these with the Riders of Rohan. The two kings met the Easterlings in open the river hoping to prevent the destruction foundries of Erebor gave them a massive advantage Three days of heavy fighting ensued, wherein Dale was eventually eroded by the numerical them to retreat. Seeing that Laketown would be indefensible, to retreat behind the impregnable gates of Dain leading a desperate rearguard action. The two kings managed to buy enough time for however, Brand was struck down by an Easterling's Dain enraged by the death of his close friend refused to give an inch despite the intense Easterling force. After a prolonged defence of the King of Dale's was also slain despite the piles of Easterling King. The forces of the deceased leaders then locked a prolonged siege. While the men of Dale and Dwarves of Erebor the gates of the Lonely Mountain, their primary led by the soon to be King of Gondor Aragorn. Even earlier, Lothlorien had been invaded first on the Eleventh of March TA 3019, then was then made upon the Elvish lands on the Meanwhile on the Fifteenth of March TA 3019, horde of Orcs beginning what would become This was done to secure the flank of the assaults of the Elves converging and forming a unified The Easterlings of Rhun were to reinforce immeasurably by the stubbornness of the defenders The Galadhrim led by Celeborn and Galadriel the courage and potency of the renowned Elvish Ring to counteract the vast numerical advantage While Thranduil also proved his competency the Elvenking whose forces were more renowned after a battle which caused a, &quot;great ruin This victory caused Thranduil to declare a victory. At this point Frodo and Sam alongside their of Cirith Ungol, where the treachery of Gollum Turning the Hobbits against one another, before a great spider of immense proportions and Dark Lord Morgoth's ally Ungoliant. Shelob pricked Frodo with her stinger causing the great spider. Sam however wielding Sting and the Light of Frodo's life once more. However, believing his dear friend to be dead to finish their quest regardless. At this point, a group of Orcs and Uruks from body and remarked that he was still alive Sam then took it upon himself to save the of the fact that the Garrison had engaged for the ownership of Frodo's mithril shirt, to harm. Here he returned the Ring, counting himself over the One Ring while also being the only From here the two hobbits, disguising themselves across the Plains of Gorgoroth which was inhabited their quest and cast the Ring into the fires Meanwhile, following the successful defence of the wise men of Gondor, as well as his of Rohan in order to discuss their final moves This came to be known as the Last Debate and city, as Aragorn refused to enter until the proclaimed king. Many men who were well acquainted with tactics forward their opinions as to the best course Yet it was the counsel of Gandalf which swayed &quot;We have not the Ring. ... Without it we cannot by force defeat his But we must at all costs keep his Eye from We cannot achieve victory by arms, but by chance, frail though it be. ... We must push Sauron to his last throw. We must call out his hidden strength, so that We must march out to meet him at once. We must make ourselves the bait, though his ... We must walk open-eyed into that trap, Knowing that Frodo and Sam were now within no other choice but to march out and meet By sacrificing their lives, they could buy quest and save Middle Earth for good and all. Each and every one of those gathered at this awaited them, yet it was the only course of greater than had originally guarded the city with him seven thousand soldiers of Gondor The impossibility of victory was not lost laughing aloud before stating: history of Gondor: that we should ride with of its army in the days of its power, to assail the Black Land! So might a child threaten a mail-clad knight The Host of the Men of the West left Minas Morgul heading straight for the Black Gate. Sauron falsely believing that Aragorn now against him fell for this ploy and began to Aragorn then left a force of just under one guard the road to Minas Tirith should the Midway through Ithilien they were then assaulted These soldiers were quickly detected by the with little casualties. As the Men of the West approached Dagorlad some of the fainter of heart among the Rohirrim Black Gate. Aragorn displaying his compassion allowed Cair Andros weakening the army even further, six thousand men. Yet as the Host of the West continued ever vastness of the Black Gate and even the most tendrils of fear creep through their veins. Heralds were sent upon Prince Imrahil's Elessar. In response the Black Gate opened a fraction, to emerge. At their head was a Dark Numenorean of the the fall of the Kingdom and fallen into the He was known as the Mouth of Sauron and demanded mithril vest and cloak to the despair of Pippin Gandalf then asked for the terms of surrender, over Isengard and Rohan as well as the vassalage in the plainest of terms. Enraged by their unwillingness to surrender, Gate which now opened allowing a force of Uruk Hai to emerge. On top of that, thousands of Orcs surfaced Morannon, with another force of Easterlings tower of Carchost ensuring that the Men of These denizens of the dark proceeded to surround was no longer an option. In the early stages of the battle, the Dark the Men of the West due to the large slag Black Gate. This bought Aragorn enough time to organize thousand each upon the two slag piles in the made up of piles of rubble and waste. The contingen upon the right hill was commanded consisting of the Knights of Dol Amroth and of both Rohan and Gondor. While the hill to the left was led by Aragorn the Fellowship, Elladan and Elrohir sons of banner flying on its front line. The Dark Lord with his eye fixed firmly upon His forces crashed into the Host of the West The Men of the West held, utilizing their well as the height advantage afforded by the evil men. While this valiant defence caused far greater was not sustainable and the Men of the West The remaining Nazgul then emerged threatening Host of the West, before the Great Eagles The Eagles and Nazgul fought for the aerial of Bilbo during the Battle of the Five Armies As the initial attack of the forces of Sauron and cudgels were sent forth. Their attack managed to effectively break Orcs to swarm through, making Aragorn's piles. The Orcs further took example of the Easterlings to make the most of their encirclement. It was only by the valour and steadfastness the slag piles could be maintained, despite Meanwhile, Sam and Frodo having disguised Mount Doom and looked poised to bring the Coming to the slopes of the Crack of Doom fell, only for Sam to carry him upon his back At this point, Gollum attacked the two Hobbits, stumbled towards the depths of Mount Doom. Sam having delayed Gollum long enough made horror Frodo had renounced the quest and claimed Sauron now realizing that the Ring was within the Plains of Morannon and towards the Crack This earned the hard-pressed Men of the West Lord driving them onwards, his forces began slag pile breathing space with which they A shocked and despairing, Sam was caught unaware him unconscious with a rock, before attacking The struggle was brief as Frodo had been weakened Ring for as long as he had, ending with Gollum from him. Gollum celebrated reclaiming his precious upon the blood pulsing from Frodo's finger unwittingly destroying the One Ring. This caused the destruction of Barad-dur, while Mount Doom erupted violently with the where they were now surrounded by lava and by Gandalf Gwaihir and his Great Eagles. With the destruction of the Ring, Sauron's the threat of his dominion ended forever. On the Plains of Morannon, the Orcs panicked by the resurgent Men of the West. While some of the Easterlings and Haradrim counterparts fought to the last man being and were pardoned by King Elessar. Orc strongholds remained within the Plains to lead his forces which were still capable Mordor to ensure the purging of the area was Aragorn then freed the slaves of Nurn, granting South of the realm of Mordor to be ruled as under the cruel reign of Sauron. News of the demise of the Dark Lord spread Lonely Mountain soon hearing of their Overlord's of morale. The Armies of Dale and Erebor now led by their led a sortie consisting of all of the forces and on the Twenty Seventh of March drove the of the Lonely Mountain. While this was ultimately a victory for Dale what were already scarce numbers of Dwarves, The Elves using their victory at the battle were gone with the defeat of their master, Thranduil. We don't know much about the ensuing battle, the last true examples of the magic in this down the walls, foul pits, and crevices. The Dol Guldur was finally destroyed and the In the aftermath of the battle of Black Gate was returning to Gondor to be duly crowned by Galadriel on May First TA 3109. The ceremony was vast in nature with people the events. Faramir met with the soon-to-be King outside Return of the King to his people: "Here the Dunedain of Arnor, Captain of the Host wielder of the Sword Reforged, victorious Elfstone, Elessar of the line of Valandil, Shall he be king and enter into the City and And all those gathered cried approval aloud enter the city he had saved not long before, King. Frodo was given the honour of carrying the pearl and silver which formed the likeness Faramir, who was now the Steward of Gondor was taken up once more by the populace of With this, King Elessar entered the city to banner was unfurled from the highest tower Several months later a company of Elves led He handed over to Aragorn the symbol of royalty his status as King of Arnor. Shortly afterward Aragorn and Arwen were married, her immortality for the love she bore the Aragorn became the twenty-sixth King of Arnor, High King of the Reunited Kingdom. He would found the House of Telcontar and Soon after this, a great host led by Aragorn of the Fellowship stopped in Rivendell, Gandalf Dark events transpired in the region in the Fellowship was in the south. Using the money earned from selling the pipe-weed and Frodo Lotho Sackville-Baggins initiated the place of Chief of the Shire. The former White Wizard sent Dunlendings and Ruffians, to assist in this process providing the Hobbits, who were left without protection Following the defeat of Sauron, Saruman used last elements of magic he could yet control, the tower of Isengard. Then Saruman under the guise of Sharkey came quickly deposing and imprisoning the former dominion. He had begun to turn the once content and similar to what he had achieved in Isengard. However, Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin arrived the region in what came to be known as the Before entering the Shire, Gandalf, Frodo, Pony in Bree and were informed by Barliman Strange and harsh men from the South had begun of the men and hobbits who had previously This culminated in a fight on the streets Ferny were driven out by the men of Bree led Gandalf then took the Hobbits to the edge Bombadil, assuring his companions that their the Ring would mean they could meet the challenge The four Hobbits upon arriving in the Shire home they had fought for so long to protect Ring. Having grown much in terms of courage and Hobbits soon took up a leadership role rousing cruelty. Prior to this mustering, the leader of Saruman's when challenged by the blades of the Hobbits, of Rohan given to him by Theoden to great Moving swiftly a force of Shire-folk was assembled they could to meet the forces of the disgraced In total there were two hundred Bucklanders, supplementing this company, which had to face What came next would be known as the Battle TA 3019. As Pippin was still a Knight of Gondor and this could also be seen as the first battle At this point the Shire was still a part of engage in combat with the will of the High After being initially rebuked the leader of however, they were promptly surrounded and struck down by four arrows from the ever-effective As they displayed the same strength which as far back as the Battle of Fornost. The rest of the Ruffians were then arrested More men were dispatched by Sharkey however of the Fellowship sufficient time to prepare Merry and Pippin took charge utilizing everything employ of the King of Rohan and Steward of Makeshift roadblocks were prepared using carts they entered the center of the built-up area Their greater stature and strength compared this way. Attempting a breakout many were struck down the Hobbits and those who successfully broke and cut down. Sam, Merry, and Pippin took an active role and inspiring their fellow Shire-folk to hold in terms of strength. Frodo meanwhile did not fight but instead their arms and surrendered was not slaughtered The Battle was a resounding victory for the with thirty wounded, compared to the seventy while the remainder of Sharkey's men fled The following day Frodo and the other Hobbits discovering it was in fact Saruman. The wizard was now powerless and Frodo exiled the Shire and never return. Saruman having been forever tainted by his cruelty decrying the weakness of the Hobbits This was too much for the former man of Rohan former despot of the Shire, slitting his throat. Before Frodo could stop them, the archers multiple arrows and ending his life immediately. This was the last military engagement of the The War of the Ring had far-ranging ramifications so than that of Gondor. Aragorn went on to rebuild the Kingdom of close relations with the other realms of Men, who continued to prosper in the Fourth Age. He also successfully campaigned alongside the Easterlings and Haradrim forever ending The three men led campaigns beyond the Sea who dwelt there. Campaigns to the South were also conducted the men of Harad to give up their possessions Likewise, an assault was made on the city serving under Denethor's father under the The Corsairs of Umbar were utterly routed the Numenoreans so many centuries prior was Black Numenoreans who resided there seemingly legacy since the fall of Numenor. The Orcs had also been reduced to insignificant the Dark Lord and the United Kingdom, not extent since Elendil first arrived in the threats to the High Kingship. Aragorn maintained Minas Tirith as his capital, reconstructed Annuminas to serve as his Northern ruins of the desolation of the Witch King came to reside. The Kingdom of Arnor once more prospered, in the North was finally cleansed from the it had once possessed during the at its height. Minas Morgul was razed to the ground, as its fully cleansed from the former joint fortresses the Emyn Arnen for Faramir and Eowyn to dwell Osgiliath was once more rebuilt also regaining the first capital of the Kingdom, becoming continued. Aragorn named Faramir Prince of Ithilien marrying status from the newly re-established Realm The king even added the Westmarch to its territory, the Shire again, himself included. Even after Aragorn's death following 120 son Eldarion, the descendants of this line the Golden Age started by their patriarch Meanwhile, Arwen would die just a year after at Cerin Amroth in Lorien. In Rohan, Eomer assumed the throne, marrying who he had fallen in love with during his He would prove a gallant ally to the Gondorians Oath of Eorl would continue in perpetuity. Isengard was granted to the Ents, who filled renaming it the Treegarth of Orthanc. While in the Glittering Caves which Gimli Battle of Helm's Deep, permission was given there which prospered for many years due to The Balrog being now defeated also allowed Khazad-dum after so many years exiled from Legolas would go on to found a colony in Ithilien, and Galadriel purged Dol Guldur of corruption However, the destruction of the One Ring ensured began to fade in power, causing the Kingdoms This caused a mass exodus of Elves across Ring Bearers departing, Lorien was eventually did not depart moving to the Southern part The majority of the Elves of Rivendell also and a small population of Elves to inhabit Eventually, Celeborn whose heart yearned for with his company, and it was said that &quot;with Days in Middle-earth.&quot; Frodo never truly recovered from his wounds of the Rings in the Red Book of Westmarch, and Gandalf, who by now achieved all that and Galadriel aboard an Elven ship. Frodo and Bilbo were allowed passage to the in the hopes of healing the damage to their Sam married Rosie Cotton having thirteen children for seven consecutive seven-year terms before take a ship to the Undying Lands as a former Meanwhile Merry became the Master of Buckland Brandy Hall and also Crickhollow and in the 32nd Thain of the Shire, a position he maintained year 63 of the Fourth Age, when he revisited Merry was 102 years old at this stage and laid to rest in Gondor. Pippin died not long after and was laid to After the great King Elessar died in the year entombed next to him. After Aragorn's death, Legolas and Gimli of their people. The pair that had grown incomprehensibly close went West, where Legolas built one last ship towards Valinor. In doing so Gimli became the first and only Lands. Neither of them was ever again seen in Middle friends to the very dying days of the World. We sincerely hope you enjoyed this series working on the series that will cover the We are also planning to cover the battles universes, so make sure you have subscribed Please, consider liking and sharing, as it - we will try to read every comment as we and which videos you hope to see in the future! This is the Wizards and Warriors channel and