Heme Review is my new podcast. If you want to learn more about the early description below. CB is a 35 year old man, presenting to the His mom tells the admitting nurse that she of rubbing alcohol in his hand. CB had read on the internet that alcohol disinfects Afraid that he had been infected after touching bottle of 91% rubbing alcohol, and started Immediately after drinking the entire bottle, He wasn't going to be infected this time. Someone on the internet said it'll burn the benefits of disinfecting himself, outweighed As the minutes passed, CB started feeling The floor started spinning. He collapsed. His mom heard the noise and found him unconscious She called for 911, as he's brought to the Rubbing alcohol's real name is isopropyl Iso meaning equal. Propyl from propan, which is a prefix denoting of carbons. And alcohol meaning a chemical moiety of 1 3 carbons, balanced, relative to the position Oil doesn't mix with water at all. But ALCOHOL GROUPS interact with water, because Both the name isopropyl alcohol, and its structure, about what's happening to DM, but it also gonna cure anyone of any virus. So how do alcohols disinfect? Well, they disturb proteins. On the surface of the SARS2 virus, are crown The word corona, means crown. Crown virus. These spikes are how SARS2 virus infects people, So if alcohols interfere with proteins, and rubbing alcohol SHOULD disinfect SARS2 virus. -- 70% rubbing alcohol is a better disinfectant More doesn't appear to be better here. If 70% is alcohol, then the other 30% is water. Extra water helps target proteins. But while 70% isopropanol disinfects viruses viruses inside the body. And here's why: Anything you swallow, goes into your stomach, The liver breaks things down into forms that This is called metabolism. Humans evolved a very specific way of metabolizing In the liver, there's something called alcohol De meaning the removal of, hydrogen, and ase does chemical reactions. -Ase is like lactase, which is an enzyme that The body has no use for rubbing alcohol. It wants to get rid of it. To do that, it needs to make it easier to easily dissolves in water and is collected When alcohol dehydrogenase processes isopropanol, name for nail polish remover. OK, so if someone is exposed to SARS2 virus their lungs. We've already established that drinking liver where it's broken down to acetone. Acetone is a disinfectant too, so why wouldn't Well, this brings us to a concept called distribution. Once something is broken down by the liver, Human body has a large volume of water and in that huge volume. Drinking a bottle of 91% rubbing alcohol will liver, and the acetone floating around will be concentrated enough to hit any virus in OK, so that's rubbing alcohol. How about, 60% liquor, like vodka or rum? Well, the alcohol that humans drink for fun, It's named ethanol. Ethan means two. The CDC says that 120 proof, or 60% alcohol But that disinfection happens outside the Ethanol is broken down by alcohol dehydrogenase Anything with an alcohol group, gets processed The result is acetaldehyde. This is what causes someone to become red Acetaldehyde isn't a disinfectant. But it's also not very water soluble, and So acetaldehyde is broken down again into also not a disinfectant. Vinegar can be a disinfectant, but when it's Drinking 60% liquor, won't cure anyone of body. Inhaling it, won't cure the disease either. It would bypass the liver. It would bring a first pass of alcohol right We don't have good data on this, but at brain, provided it doesn't damage the mucous Alcohol inhalation misuse can cause Acute happens in severe COVID19 disease. The only analogy I have for inhaling really SARS2 virus in your lungs is that it's like No benefit, and all risk, so don't do it. And the final alcohol. There were news reports of people in Iran A prominent one being Methanol. Methan being the prefix meaning one. In the body, alcohol dehydrogenase turns methanol This was the chemical used to embalm mummies. Formaldehyde is a disinfectant, but it's And instead of a weak vinegar, formaldehyde acid, which causes blindness. The acid part spills into the blood, causing In high enough amounts in blood, acids can alcohols are good enough for curing COVID-19 They should be good enough to disinfect surfaces which brings us back to CB. Acetone, nail polish remover, causes mild The body can't break it down any further ISO. The chemistry says these bonds are too hard So it's a matter of time for CB's body With supportive care, he came out of his coma, It's good that he ended up being ok. But it's not good that the hospital had There's other patients who come in critically he drank rubbing alcohol. Don't be like CB. But how about another common disinfectant? AC is a 40 year old man, presenting to the He tried to speak, but couldn't. An exam of his mouth and his throat found In the operating room, doctors immediately Swelling and inflammation were so bad, that A longer tube was stuck down his throat to Burns and dead tissue were found in the inner is suffering from caustic burn injury because bleach thinking that it would cure him of He later claimed he thought it was dilute is plausible, and here's why. Bleach is a really good disinfectant. Household bleach is sodium hypochlorite. If you take away the hypo, sodium chlorite This brings us to a concept called equilibrium. Household bleach is around 6% sodium hypochlorite, In this mixture, water interacts with the If we break it down, bleach is multiple chemicals equilibrium. These chemicals are Sodium hydroxide, which A base is something that takes hydrogens. This is opposite to an acid, which gives hydrogens. And this balance is complete because, bleach These quickly kill bacteria and viruses, but Human cells are enclosed by a layer of molecules Sodium hydroxide from the bleach, doesn't off long chains of it. Doing this, actually makes soap. Immediately on contact, bleach rips open cells, But it's not done here. Proteins live on the surface of cells, meaning off. Sodium hydroxide and Hypochlorous acid from All of this immediately consuming the bleach By the time it gets to the stomach, it's soap, salt, and dead liquefied tissue. And this is why it doesn't cure COVID19. It consumes itself on the way down because It never gets to the lungs. If it did because someone inhaled it somehow, and lungs causing burns there too. Again, lopping off your leg, to clip a toenail. AC developed a narrowing in his esophagus He had to undergo multiple procedures where to keep it open and was maintained on a liquid Alcohol and bleach are surface disinfectants. They don't disinfect inside the body. They cause only harm, without any benefit So how about other things? Some people say eating garlic will help fight Well, it's probably not going to. Garlic probably has some antimicrobial properties, allicin. There could be more chemicals, and that's When you see something like this in a chemical, in the body. Where's sulfur? It's in proteins. Just like the SARS2 virus spike. But inside the body, it's going to get broken You might say that garlic can boost the immune Ok, suppose that's real, maybe it is. How are you gonna measure that? And it has no role in treating a critically I don't need to wash my hands because I No, stop. The only documented case of garlic doing anything in China, where a woman ate 3 pounds of garlic This is what happened to her throat: she couldn't That's it. Don't get me wrong, I like my garlic. But if I have a fever, and im starting to 2020, im not gonna be eating more garlic hoping you. There's also talk about ginger. Look, SARS2 virus broke out in China. Chinese people today, still practice traditional Western standards of care. If ginger worked, they would have used it. And SARS2 virus wouldn't have spread like But it did spread like this. And finally, essential oils. These have become the butt of jokes. And I know people want me to rag on them, have demonstrated some antimicrobial activity. But the game changes once these things are That's the overarching theme for everything The scientific phrase for this is in vivo, These things are broken down into things that not in the right amounts to disinfect. They end up causing more harm than good in And for essential oils, the reality is the in how much of the active chemicals are in One manufacturer might have more of one thing It's not reliable, and it's not enough in falsely elevating your confidence that Oh and I can't say the name of this in a But there's nothing disinfectant about this. There's nothing disinfectant about any of The ending of it's name -caine actually function on nerves to numb an area. And vitamin C. There isn't great evidence for it on cold If you're gonna take it, follow the directions Don't double up. So the general consensus is this. Lots of things can kill SARS2 virus outside They don't kill the virus inside the body, At best, they don't mess with COVID19 disease cause blindness and someone's heart to stop At worst, it liquefies and strips off the bleach. Or at worst, it does nothing and gives someone infection, when they're actually not. And they go out and spread it around the community Don't be that person. Wash your hands after you come back home. Wash them after you touch anything that came When you wash, keep the soap on your hands thoroughly. It's even better if you wash them a second and then dry your hands with a clean towel. That's all benefit for prevention and little But if you feel fever, and cough, and body Don't pretend nothing is wrong if you feel This is very important. #Alertnotanxious. Check out Heme Review. Take care of yourself. And Be Well.