I never worry about the regulations. Why not? Because I know I'm a good boy. I've interviewed Jack over the last 25, 30 years. In 2005, this was still at I asked him how he stays and he says... The government loves me, because I'm helping He had that brashness back in 2005. So that brashness has now come back and kind of nipped the Over two decades ago, Jack Ma co-founded Alibaba. Today, it's China's e-commerce giant and one of the biggest But recently, Ma and his tech In April, Alibaba was fined a record $2.8 billion Its affiliate Ant Group, which Ma holds a controlling stake in, was ordered to overhaul its business after the abrupt suspension This was looking like a fairy-tale listing for Ant Group, but there's And since then, Ma has laid low. Just being quiet is that we think of when we think of Jack, we think of him as very loud, brash. And so we're all a bit shocked But Alibaba and Ant are in the sights of Chinese regulators. I think this is a watershed moment for China's tech industry. Some would say that the golden days of China's internet age So what does the future hold for China's tech giants? It's become the stuff of legend. In 1995, during a trip to the Jack Ma had his first at a friend's place in Seattle. I searched the first word, beer. I don't know why. Because And I see beers from beers from Japan, but Back home, he started China Pages, a Yellow Pages-like website, By 1999, the internet stock And back in his Hangzhou apartment, Ma decided to try again. With his wife and a Ma set up Alibaba, a site that allowed businesses In the same year, a newly released its first product, OICQ, an internet messaging service. Alibaba came along. Tencent came along. They grew in certain Alibaba grew in e-commerce. But then their services just started mushrooming and mushrooming. Alibaba and its affiliate these are the twin pillars You can think of their influence in terms of the products that they offer. So think of the most in the U.S., and Tencent would be a Tencent's WeChat, for example, which is just one of its main services, is a combination of WhatsApp combined with services from there's also elements of TikTok and financial payment Alibaba is best known for but the company has expanded so much beyond just its core business. It has businesses in sectors Think of the biggest &quot;Mission: Impossible&quot; was So it's a very powerful conglomerate. Tencent and Alibaba's apps are used by a combined 1 billion people. Each company has a market cap over half a trillion U.S. dollars, and they've poured billions Startups have to face the duopoly, and often they have to take And it's almost like an Not taking money from And if either Alibaba or in your competitor, the Other than that, when e-commerce players often do complain that they have to choose It could be either Alibaba or its rivals. For over a decade, the Chinese government allowed with little oversight as it wasn't yet considered Beijing also hoped that could spur China's economy. Using the model of combining U.S. capital with China's best entrepreneurs China's internet sector or tech sector just grew into this giant by the time the government realized that it had gotten so big, it was already out of their The ability for them to and combine it with gives them key insight and also key industries, which is really something of the ruling party's concern. If these companies venture there is a risk that these companies pose to the ruling Communist Party. And power is at the core of everything and the priority for the ruling party. China putting the brakes Ant Group's listing in have been suspended. And this is really a It was the most anticipated on record, and the money So in that essence alone, it was a dramatic because it had already by securities regulators and This was going to be a but it all came apart after this speech, of course, where he criticized the He criticized state banks for operating like pawn shops. And he didn't read the room very well, because the audience at the was full of government officials. They did not take kindly to this. The Ant IPO debacle is the tipping point. And obviously, the have been there for a really long time. So a lot of tension had been building up in the past 10 years. It just until this really smart event that the whole balance was tipped. Ant is China's largest fintech company, created in 2004 as a payment service to facilitate transactions to Alibaba. The company has expanded its business into wealth management, In the year to June 2020, it managed to process $17 And at one point it had the in the world. There has been a lot of complaints from the state-owned lenders about how Ant is especially in lending and And the banks are held to that are much more stringent whereas Ant has been able to sidestep a lot of these stringent rules by playing the role of And they added micro lending. And I say micro lending is just a name for prolific, mega, many, to shoppers across the many That posed significant risks because Alibaba only funded and the rest of those loans were securitized by the state banks. They took on the big risks. Just the day before Ant's IPO suspension, regulators released strict draft rules for online microlenders that would require Ant of the funding for loans and other financial institutions. That evening, Jack Ma was for a meeting. What we learned was that while of the IPO, the message was clear, which is that the free-reining was coming to an end, and That was probably the first inkling that things were not going But the writing on the wall in the months proceeding that. There were a slew of rules since September that After Ant's IPO suspension, the company was ordered turning it into a with similar regulations to a bank. Regulators also launched an into Alibaba. In addition, there's of Jack Ma's growing media empire. He owns the South China He owns at least 30% of the which is like a Twitter of China. He also has another media, Yicai, which is a very large media company that has an online presence in China. Regulators are said to at the influence Jack Ma and Alibaba through those has on Chinese society. Some would say that it's that likes to have the final say in what information the public gets. Since the collapse of Ant's IPO, Ma, the face of China's new economy and the showman who always Jack, are you there? Jack? Doesn't look there's anyone inside. He may be not showing He hasn't been captured. He hasn't been taken. Like many entrepreneurs in China, Ma had been walking a tightrope, balancing sometimes conflicting and foreign investors who For many years, Jack Ma branded himself or tried to create this image where he revolted against the system, and was a troublemaker In love with the government, I mean, this is... He's also extremely savvy, always appealing to the greater good, trying to convince the government why his company and the are good for job creation in China and also for China's image. It wasn't until earlier this year, 2021, that Jack Ma reappeared. He was talking about philanthropy, and the tone in which he gave his speech was so much more modest and humble compared with his speech in October. He was doing something that the government wants a man who is And that is to talk and building up and investing These are messages the You know, 10 years ago, I mean, it was a very very different government back then. You had much more of a laissez You had also ineffective regulations or often overlapping And Jack, I think assiduously Contrast that to today, for regulatory problems. China's government has You can no longer just bash government in the way that he did. So maybe Jack just didn't realize Just five months since the sudden collapse of Ant's IPO, regulators hit Alibaba with a record fine for monopolistic conduct. Ant is now in the process of an overhaul. Is the Chinese government They don't want to limit But they probably want to down a notch a little bit. So I don't think Alibaba is Its core will remain e-commerce. But I think for Ant, What can Ant be without and lending business? That's a big question. The Chinese government has also launched an investigation into suspected monopolistic practices by food-delivery behemoth Meituan. 32 other tech firms like Tencent and TikTok owner Bytedance have been ordered to rectify I think the regulatory uncertainty is going to be at the backdrop of just about every big tech story for the foreseeable future in China. From the government's standpoint, I mean, it's not in their to become smaller and weaker. It's just a different direction that the government wants these The antitrust regulation the opportunity and the room to grow, which is important. The trend where governments tech companies and break is global. I think in China what differs have no power to fight back. When the government cracks down on them, ironically, what we saw with Alibaba is that they thanked the government. And that is something or Facebook is doing The end of the day, the Chinese government has the final say, and bend the knee or get broken.