Today we've got a whole hour of NEW this video isn't a compilation of old videos, it's on DidYouKnowGaming before, all to make sure you you still can't sleep, just take a shot every time gathered a selection of facts from the Mario your desire for knowledge; so without further In 1994, Nintendo made a public event at 10,000 counterfeit Game Boy games they confiscated steamroller. This was done to send a message the entire operation. The Dutch magazine saying "A large, heavy antique steamroller smoking and whistling. [...] The large wheels was left was a mountain of unusable pulp. It was for the roller." The destroyed games had been various companies in the Netherlands with the to be "perfect counterfeits", right down to the to lack a manual -- or at least one written trivia we have involving a Mario-themed During the launch of the Nintendo Wii in Japan, assuming they were an official representative sent to participate in the midnight launch event at hardware launches. However, store employees Nintendo representative, but rather just some guy crashed the party. The cosplayer was apparently of a meme among Japanese internet users. Some that implied the cosplayer was none other the father of PlayStation, Ken Kutaragi. He amazing, not gonna lie. But enough mascot Super Mario 64 laid out the standards of the this day. While it's a majorly impressive game, it thought through by the team during its creation. but one example is that the big Goomba enemies even weirder than this -- while it looks as taken a blow, the game actually registers and activates the function "mark_goomba_as_dead". the game considers them dead, but they are if the player moves away from the big Goombas and then the player returns, they simply won't The Mario games of course grew in their scope over scope, but file size too as one might expect. But mediums that could house it... Such as a theoretical would be possible, with the development of gene the size of Super Mario Sunshine inside the human 1,500, 000,000 bytes, or about 1.5 gigabytes which counts at 1.45 gigabytes, would fit rather genome. With perhaps a little extra space for time comes, I will be the first to inject Super It'd probably be impossible for a human of course... and speaking of survival, here's an Yoshi will disintegrate if he fails to eat a if a Yoshi wanted to live for as long as possible, just to stop their inevitable snap out of single year. And depending on what fruits a Yoshi per day -- about 80 times more than what the Mario's next 3D outing, Super Mario Galaxy, has difficult to find, and even easier to miss. An black hole in the game. Obviously, nobody can this black hole, but by extracting the image, we picture of Mario in Beach Bowl Galaxy. This so why it's used is unknown. Another oddity is they'll become briefly disoriented before slowly however, has a bizarre reaction if he's hit during where he will instead become sad when hit... purple coin mission has a curious overlooked has a special message that can only be seen if the collected. This is a particularly hard feat to that's difficult to avoid - though there's a The special message reads: "Zero? ZEEEERO? done that on purpose! That might impress some, to that kind of stunt. See you later!" After Other lesser-seen secrets from Galaxy called "PenguinGoodsHat". This model of a but hides a very small penguin inside of it. Based the game such as PenguinGoodsSwimCap, it's likely penguin. It's penguins all the way down. Some but there are plenty of mistakes you've probably let several spelling mistakes slip through into many misspellings, with words such as dirt and even "hugebuttleship" instead of battleship. of badly transliterated words from Japanese, which speaker who isn't fluent in English. Galaxy the decorative butterflies, for If Mario remains idle for long enough to enter his and land on him. When he wakes up, the butterfly it already is green. Why this happens hasn't the first game, it was only added for the sequel. was once an animation that was perhaps a bit Mario. In the final game, Mario's skeleton simply stuck in the same pose as the moment he an animation for his skeleton actually falling grim end for the plumber, and one that might data gives us some vital insight into the which never shows up in game, and reveals One part of Galaxy 2 was actually set to make a Documents handed out at the 2014 Nintendo Game Super Mario 3D World. Illustrations from these some unused ideas, like how the Cloud Flower was and that Cat Luigi was originally going to be account of his ferocious attitude. Another detail with producer Yoshiaki Koizumi, who described the characters were already animated to move cat power had not yet been created, so they were he describes the fact that Princess Peach would and that rather than looking cute as you might it actually looked more "like Now, let's take a look at classic Mario appearances - like, say, Super Mario Bros. between different versions of this game, but enough space to allow Mario to stand in a position jump, and then land just behind him. This is jumps onto the screen as the level starts. In the this Paratrooper happens to jump in a way that the and the Paratrooper will avoid them perfectly. this enemy's movement was deliberately altered resulting in direct contact being made Japan has its own specific piece of trivia The Satellaview was a hardware attachment for in simple terms, download unique titles real time while a radio show is received this means that an official piece of Mario contained a fragment of Rick Asley's famous 1987 the song could be heard in the background during Another version of Super Mario Bros 3, the wonderfully contains a unique unused enemy that doesn't All-Stars release. The enemy is supposed to but when loaded in-game, it actually looks like a that when the game is modified to spawn the blue warp whistle which will chase him down to utilize in-engine sprite rotation, which new situations exclusive to this release Super Mario World also has some cut content, only the final game, Yoshi is unable to enter into with Mario making him wait outside; or if the because Yoshi is too scared to enter. It appears a cushion, or resting spot, would have been place to sit and wait for Mario. Instead, the poor own sequel, Yoshi's Island, official material the Yoshis in the title their own names; Yoshi, Marci. Though not in the game, the names seemed considering they were included in both the game's Mario Party has been a staple of the Mario time fun was enough to earn the game plenty of with plenty of sequels comes plenty of the player can actually take a small Computer-controlled opponents can be tricked in to steal the characters 'favorite item'. For Block. As this is the case, if the player the AI will be compelled to take it anyway, Mario Party 4 was promoted in North America kinds of antics like Mario Skiing off and the whole cast generally just beating the and games. An incident took place in which the pool of water. As you can imagine, it'd be near and the actor had to be rescued. While according to the costume company, the it isn't only on set that things can In the sixth entry of the series, a game breaking the player to reset. If the AI players are the computer controlled character decision they want to make, even if that if the AI wanted to duel another player for rather than selecting another player previous menu to try again. This loop will Just because a video is about Mario, doesn't mean released in Japan as Mother 2, has Japanese release. In Mother 2's character name will fill a character's name in with a times will cycle through additional ideas 6 times will give the character a name with a Paula being Peach, Jeff turning into Luigi, Speaking of RPGs, Mario's made his way into considered some of his best. Take Paper Mario for details and behind-the-scenes secrets. Youtuber in the Japanese release's attract mode. As with shows off a number of gameplay elements if the few moments. There's 18 different clips in total battle examples, but the vast majority are general seems fairly standard, Goralis discovered that the cutscenes and overworld gameplay are fade outs are determined by either hitting a are displayed by the game loading a game state virtual controller. Though bizarrely, there are input such as with a partner swap. There's also a while appearing to be a cutscene, is actually But this is only the beginning. As the game is someone were to hijack that controller and the game can be reprogrammed to turn around and proceed to explain the battle order, which the first battle entered with Goombario. In the can't even perform the action command, making the that the partner swap in one clip takes place as it turns out, this is because the swap is what position Mario and his partner are in. items from the blocks in the scene, leaving the overworld clips. But perhaps more interestingly, the items have followed Mario between In this battle we can see that the partners even supposed to appear in this chapter. Opening does Mario have every companion available, but control also means that Mario can be forced to talking to NPCs and taking damage, including the character can be made to run around freely, but Mario can be made to save the game, however file slot with the title Error and the same amount loaded in exactly where the save took place, but an invisible wall preventing the player from partner at Ultra Rank, but continuing to open Perhaps the most fascinating part of all of this this way, it is also possible to get a game over. the title screen as it should, but it can now and the physical controller doesn't function music never stops playing. While it appears as the demo screen transition parameters still apply, automatically transitions to the next clip from the physical controller functionality. Be sure at each scene and how they function. But this There's a letter that Parakarry has that can is par for the course for the partner, there's an waits for a specific moment. If the letter is a Spiny Tromp, the player is rewarded with an states, 'The Names Parakarry. I deliver letters. Another letter duly delivered. A postman's Kolorado responding, 'Yeeow owow..! The I know it... Oh, a letter... Oh, good show! It's chap. This is just what I needed to give me the as a spot of thanks. I came across it while I was Of course, Paper Mario features its fair share of to the left of the staircase there's an area with the room essentially being mirrored the door is actually there, just behind the made inactive. Where this mysterious door is unknown. Another piece of cut content still partner that could have been a Ninji boy. The text The game's follow-up, Paper Mario: The the pinnacle of Mario's RPG outings. The game unfortunately got lost in translation. In the is not coded as a special character, but rather 'pigeon' (&quot;Jiu &quot;). So whenever a character uses the saying 'pigeon'. This is likely a pun based on a similar sounding word to 'heart'. Another detail in both Thousand Year-Door and Super Paper Super Mario World; this is evident from their In Japan, Blarggs are referred to as Unbaba, and 'Zunbaba' respectively. The other dragons being called 'Bunbaba' and Bonetail being Wracktail is named 'Zanbaba'. This reference titles with the names changing in every other Thousand Year-Door, Goombella attends a language versions of the game make puns based on she attends 'Kurifornia University', a for Goomba and the University of California. a play on Humboldt University in Berlin. In France Sorbonne University in Paris. Spain features University of Madrid. In Italian it's Universita York. It's not just the Easter eggs that Throughout the game, some bosses are capable the Boss of Chapter 5 is one of them. If his phase of the fight, he'll attack the entire right over and disappear. It just so happens there's and he is placed randomly in seats, meaning be seated on the right side of the audience and Cortez. Rather than disappearing like the other and remain there. This isn't the only interaction objects at Mario during a fight. While normally attack, any Hammer Bros. in the audience will Another interesting interaction can be seen without a partner. Whenever it gets to the point Mario will speak instead. Because there's in these conversations, the text bubble in most cases. However, in at least fact have something to say. When entering a look at the skeleton in front of him and say Yet another tidbit is that Jdaster64 of the Super Mario almost completely immortal by raising While simple, the method requires an unbelieve Bandits and Badge Bandit enemies all have a 1 in These can be obtained by using the partner Ms. and collecting them post-combat. If the player points to equip a total of 49 pretty luck badges, just a 1 in 176 chance of actually hitting More unused assets can be found in Super is an unused 'Evil Mario' enemy. While our old this nega-mario is always showing his back to the Evil Mario's stats and AI are instead used for 100 Trials. Another interesting aspect O'Chunks. During the fight, the boss will treat them against walls and taunting the character. Not simply tossing her rather than hurling her he will then wait patiently for Peach to stand The next game in the series is Paper Mario: actual story of the game, Luigi does appear in the Luigi can be spotted in the background seemingly paperize ability, the player can actually grab proceed to run off screen. Each time this happens, Decalberg Suburbs, there'll be a newspaper article Luigi every time he appears throughout the game, credits. There's also a few subtle references to there's a small area completely filled with are two messages reading; 'Thank you for your will get back to you shortly. Thanks. Parakarry' the Chomp Ruins' University of Goom, Goombella. game's files such as a bigger version of the Leaf a Spiny Egg sticker and a Piranha Plant sticker, Hat sticker. This theoretically would have For Paper Mario: Color Splash, Huey's featuring an unusually high number of polygons for in fact that it would take more processing power environment from Super Mario 64, all at once. impressive looking game, but interestingly even gets to see. The game's characters have back would never be seen from the back during regular back sprites has one of his legs detached from A different kind of Mario RPG is Mario &amp; Luigi locations. Over in Europe, we actually had it certainly isn't as catchy. Mario &amp; Luigi: "Bros." at the end of the game's title has never most plausible suggestions as to why the company was trademark given out for the name "Dream Team" time the game was released. In order to avoid Nintendo may have opted to just add the word The name wasn't the only marginally janky in its graphics. For a single frame of animation exactly a massive error, but the frame renders 2 as a method of tiling a character's graphics. playable character at one stage of development, the game more on the brothers themselves. There's as present in the game's files are a An Ice Flower, the Yoo Who Cannon, and the Jump the last all-new title in the series. And AlphaDream closed its doors in 2020. Paper going to include another character that was Paper Luigi. Though absent in the final version of be another playable character, but he was removed If there's one sport that comes to mind when it has to be the long, slow pace of golf. few golf titles - though the experience seems release of the original Mario Golf on Nintendo entirely different musical track for the game's as the track featured in the other regional cartridge, taking up that same data capacity, game's Japanese release that occurs in all other Metal Mario, who doesn't appear at all in There's also some oddities with the game which can be seen when all players decide to this will change the music that normally plays Palm Club found in Mario Golf for the Game Boy it also has some bizarre errors, like with the the Boo Classic tournament is misspelled, instead Of course, this wasn't Mario's only adventure on Tour. Another mistake can be found within this characters who have fairly distinct voices from a programming error slipped through the net before will play the voice of the other; Wario sounds The game also features its own quirky unused data are a selection of eight unused rooms, each of these rooms looks exactly the save for the single chicken located Mario Golf Toadstool Tour also has its fair share friendly title, developers steer away from shaming but Toadstool Tour decides to take a different ball, Boo will appear to provide them with tips is, unless the player takes far too long. Waiting his patience and begin chastising the player * Why haven't you hit the ball yet? * You're a slow player! *Hey, * Hey, you've got to hit the ball to play! * I don't want to wait forever! The game also has a fairly strange crossover If the player chooses to play at the ball lands in a yellow flower bed, the Another tidbit about the game actually believed to be true after it circulated but here's a correction for you. Luigi signs an because, you know, 'L' for Luigi, but this also Language sign for the word "Lesbian" - however, wrong hand for this sign, and is pointing in the Moving onto a different Mario sports title: including some details that indicate what could game, we see a variety of Mario characters tournament. Some eagle eyed viewers may have background a team pairing can be seen that Toad and Toadette. It's unknown whether this characters were originally planned to be included Something that we definitely do know was planned of a Hammer Bro. The file's name is , it goes Hammer Bros. were planned to be linesmen at some was made to Nintendo's toy-based origins in the Ultra Hand Return' and true to its name, the invented by Gunpei Yokoi, the Ultra Hand. but Wario of course uses it to Another sport that Mario and his pals play pastimes. Mario Superstar Baseball went earlier promotional material from E3 2005. This the field Mario Stadium lacks environmental Chance meter and other graphics are different. trivia comes from an unused graphic in the speculated to have been a placeholder for the black and white image appears to be of Mario translates as 'Luigi's Brother Baseball' -- Dr. Mario saw Mario in a rather different busting down viruses with the power of pills. A earliest known builds of the game to have been the game didn't even have an official name yet, It seems the game was mostly running off of code this prototype mostly utilizes the same sound and much of the game's music is in the data side comparisons of the game's main gameplay course far less refined than the end release, Dr. Mario himself uses entirely different and much of the game's text is disgustingly however, is the left side of the screen. In the magnifying glass to represent what the player prototype, we see what appears to be Nurse It may be that Nintendo opted to remove the as children may feel a bit more guilty a dog succumbing to a virus and them having failed Tetris in a double pack for the SNES, the game's detail we could have never known, having never The Red Virus is in fact female. The Game Boy that didn't appear in the NES release. If the viruses in a single move, a secret track Now, some people really love Dr. Mario, but when role of a hotel worker... Well, people weren't Mario from having its own interesting information because nobody actually played the game seriously, based on both real-life, and fictional hotels. Waldorf Astoria. Roy's HardBrick Hotel is a Hotel". Larry's Chillton Hotel is just a Lemmy's High-ate Regency Hotel is Hyatt Regency, Ritz-Carlton. Ludwig's hotel, Thump Castle, is of distasteful name of Bowser's Seizures Palace Iggy Koopa, however, is the only member of the with it only having 7 hotels in total. By through the game's data, we can see graphics and enemy data file labeled is completely absent, and the game jumps from L7. While sound effects and cutscene data can be entirely blank - suggesting that at some stage, the player to conquer, instead of merely appearing Speaking of cutscenes, an early version defeats Roy doesn't use the voice actors the Mario brothers seem to align more with the Tony Rosato in the Mario cartoon series This early cutscene data is also curious might expect - rather than being in the data game's final level. More unused data is also who is clearly supposed to be the voice of like any depiction of the character, giving This was likely recorded as a placeholder Plans often change course during development, of this. The game was originally revealed concept - called Donkey Kong Plus, a sequel to featuring updated graphics and with the inclusion being dropped, really it was just recycled, and the name was changed to Mario Vs. Donkey Kong. release of the game, it wasn't taken out of the it's actually still possible to gain access to is unknown. The US version of the game also had a device that would have allowed players to scan levels. This isn't widely known, however; the levels to be unlocked were only given away and even with that in mind, there were Donkey Kong might not necessarily be a Mario is would be Captain Toad. Captain Toad: Treasure platforming into more of a puzzler. This slowed little secret that can be revealed in the Bizarre waits around on this stage for 300 seconds, movie-esque handprints will suddenly appear on Luigi's Mansion is a great series which also Hiding scary details is a key part of what makes - but some of them might have been hidden a bit of the Storage Room is an extremely faint object, the brightness and contrast of the image, it will of a ghost, holding a trumpet. There's another many players probably haven't noticed, even though Luigi's vacuum device, counts the exact number isn't to check it against a maximum capacity for the sake of maximizing the device's realism, it blows out the exact same amount of particles Now we've heard of the phrase 'eyes on the anyone having eyes on the back of their... eyes. their eyeballs rendered without any details on In Luigi's Mansion 3 however, Peach's eyes include of her eyeballs, allowing the princess to look For Luigi's Mansion Dark Moon, it seems Nintendo's past thumbles. When the player gets a he makes mention that he's worried about the the device given to Luigi by Gadd. Because of so that it should last for a good while yet. This Nintendo, acknowledging the original DS' short with the Dual Scream of course Inspiration from Nintendo's past doesn't stop Brian Davis, he mentioned he was inspired by an relationship with Toad, during escort missions Davis said "...there are missions where you have the mansion. There's a connection between you and it reminded me of The Legend of Zelda: A you go and find the princess and try to lead her to kind of honor the original designers of Mario's bitter rival has his own subseries Advance really started to set the tone with parody and comedy being at the heart of what be seen with the game's Item Shop, where the owner while we in the West may not get this, it's where a smile is actually something that can be It! Was another entry into the Wario series that With a unique visual style, getting a new composer who stated that, as a first project for him At the time, he hadn't done any sound work for almost a decade, leading to severe doubts the game's hand-drawn art style which hadn't him wanting to come up with a way to convey the main style that he had in mind. Creating music stage had to have two different versions of each "escape" theme. When Tomita found out about this, music in some time, learning that he had to a lot. Not only that, but he also had to design his burden eased as time went on, and the process He believes that his best work on the capturing both the "cool" and But Wario is of course more than just cool; he has of Disguise. Wario: Master of Disguise may have includes a number of interesting references to Wario's extendable arm with a boxing glove on the classic toy, the Ultra Hand, made by the big N game market. One treasure Wario can obtain is the series of handhelds... Though its versatility is &quot;An amazing handheld game unit with FIFTY space as a timeshare condo.&quot; We can also examine that the game on it is 1981's Octopus. Stuffy the to as the '64th ruler of the Dolphinian Empire', Nintendo 64 as the 64th rule, and the original But it isn't always about the old - sometimes Mario Bros -- a series that started in 2006. a rerelease of the Wii U edition, arrived on Spin Jump can be activated by simply pressing the any other actions that would be triggered by the quality of life upgrade, it's been noted by some jumps, triggering by mistake. It seems like the may wish to disable this, but they decided upon do so. While most people would assume modifying a instead, players must enter an undocumented button the left stick down for about 3 seconds and then make a noise, and the player can then start a Nintendo is notorious for its lack of having to input a cheat to disable a button input Beyond comprehension? I guess that works as a way beyond all comprehension before its release, The original internal working name at Ubisoft which some will immediately recognise as being a bit deeper than that; the word Moria is also or a lack of seriousness. When it comes to the well; so in reality, the working title fits Moria logo that can be found in the game's to the entrance to the Mines of Moria from The appeared during the splash screens for logos such sorts of places when it came to the content Soliani stating that one of his major "So, we started with the intention of saying we that tactical games are known to be slow paced and have something very dynamic and colorful and fast Kart. How cool would it be to try to translate Soliani also went on to talk about where is Rayman? He explained that the team but it was decided that it would best to leave it might make people assume that they but honestly, we thought that the strength of so you can do pretty much whatever you want. You tried to bring the same spirit into this your colors. Show me your Rabbid's humor even Rayman was part of the Rabbids games in the Another behind-the-scenes secret was shown the game's animators gave Rabbid Princess Peach Moon. Unfortunately it seems the animation and was just a result of the animators going a animations. Soliani stated: &quot;When you have to the Combat Phase, animators started to go crazy.&quot; according to Grant Kirkhope himself, conceived to have had rap and heavy metal operatic track heard in the final release. versions of the track were coming out, so focus this is of course one of the greatest losses to