From 1975 to 1980, Iran's total fertility Thirty years later, that rate had fallen The majority of this decline when the Iranian government implemented In other words, Iran, seen as one of the more engineered one of the most rapid Today, the country struggles to raise we take a look at the history of Iran's ## Beginnings we lack modern census data but estimates The estimated population in though another estimate in 1898 quoted travelers In 1927, about two years after the Pahlavi estimate rose to 12 million. This equates to an This was likely because of of development and startlingly Writing in the 1850s, Lady Mary Shiel, the wife &gt; Not above three of ten children of even moderate wealth and station never care for them when they are very young. Hygiene was a serious issue, diphtheria, measles, malaria and An internal government report noted that regularly had six or seven children, But under Pahlavi rule, Iran's dynasty's founding ruler Reza Shah This included modern water systems and the midwifery, and other modern medicine. These ## Eliminating Malaria This is in no small thanks to the a third of the United States' Malaria had once been endemic in in areas infested with it. Malaria mortality and Iranians suffered In 1945, the United States held their first anti-malarial Two years later, the Iranian and US governments use of the insecticide DDT helped majorly over 410,000 villages - home to 12.4 Combined with anti-malarial drug biological controls with mosquitofish, the Iranian By 1973, entire regions in the and country-wide cases had fallen to ## Too Much, Too Fast Throughout this time, Iranian women were still of those children were living past their In 1956, Iran's first modern census growth rate had accelerated to 2.2%, made Iran one of the world's fastest Iran though was still a developing children a good life? But at first, intervention - notably voting against the That year, however, the government added the showing that they were thinking about it. Then in 1966, the country's second modern census And its dependency ratio - defined by and over 65 years divided by the number This implies a staggeringly young dependency ratio in 1966 using the This immensely young population meant immense water, and education for all these just 28% of the whole country was literate. The country was also rapidly urbanizing. in the ten years from 1956 to 1966, but the same period. Urban populations This affected the country's overall Mohammad Reza Pahlavi signed a World committing to a population control ## The First Family Policies Thusly, the government passed its first Early on, the plan focused on introducing available since 1960, but the plan made them There was great uptake. In 1967, about distributed. By 1970, that grew to over 4 million. New policies protecting women were Protection Act of 1967 curbed the husband's also required the first wife's consent In 1973, the Development Plan targeted The laws forbidding abortion and large media campaign publicized These efforts saw some success. In the fertility rate declined from 7 to about 6.1. with 54% of urban couples using contraception Nevertheless, it remained traditional for with contraception used only after country growing to 33.7 million people Fueled by oil sales, foreign investment, many times over under the Shah's rule. However, address perceived inequalities, and disregard of ## The Revolution The Islamic Republic of Iran came to Shah's western-influenced policies. Islamic religious leaders including Supreme called family planning an imperialist plot Indeed, the new government, seeing a dropped many of the Shah's family once again made illegal. Family though many government-run clinics kept With oral birth control, there was some drug stores stopped selling after discussing it with the Minister of contraception was not inconsistent with Islamic The government saw early marriage as a tool to age of adulthood to 9 for girls and 14 for boys. girls, 18 for boys - was dropped as well. The Other policies indirectly encouraged family the new Iranian government spent substantial free education albeit of a more Islamic healthcare. These populist measures made it Because of these pro-natalist laws - or country's population growth rate reaccelerated large and dry Sistan and Baluchestan Province ## Changing Priorities In 1980, Iraq invaded Iran, kicking The government suddenly had far bigger planning policies. The war took a heavy human However, Iran's maintenance fuel, education and basic health measures continued to fall throughout the decade. rationing but never a famine during the war. Thus This led to a concern. Outwardly, continued to push Iranians to But inside, there was a realization that such a viable. This was particularly clear to the the government's Plan and Budget Organization, In 1986, the price of oil collapsed, The war was going into its sixth year oil money only deepened the concerns of And then there was the 1986 Census, which found and 1986, the population That was all natural birth. Total over 6 kids per woman. Oral contraceptive usage 64% of urban and 31% of rural families Iran was staggeringly young. 45% of the of the 49.4 million total people, the of which only 11 million were employed. jobs for its youths, so a third of Even discounting the war's burdens on everyone. And it became increasingly clear to the be revived, despite its religious leaders' To win broad popular support, over the next two and interviews with ministers emphasizing planning policy was positioned as a crisis Crucially, the clergy were also invited to of any population measure sponsored by were shown the data and asked for In 1988, the United Nations brokered a cease-fire, ending the Iran-Iraq war. Now Iran had country and creating prosperity for the In September that year, the Plan and Budget in the city of Mashhad on population policy, Together, they crafted a national ratified by Supreme Leader Khomeini ## A New Policy To adhere to both Islamic the 1989 policy cannot tell people Such a policy would only be a thinly disguised and thus morally wrong. So policymakers made it clear that couples had the choice to decide There were three major goals. First, it encouraged families to space out their Second, it discouraged pregnancies And third, it sought to limit the number But again, couples retained the final These goals would be achieved using several in schools, colleges and mass media Second, a major expansion in the for married couples. Rural health clinics staffed by government-trained community Third, to set itself apart from over in those imperialist countries, offering services like IVF across the country for widely publicized, despite ## Fertility Declines From 1986 to 1995, the fertility Some time in 1998 or 2000, the rate generally seen as the replacement This decline surprised many observers, to greater than what was seen in Algeria, Turkey, parsing because - as with all things related Did the family planning program work? 85% of the fertility decline between 1986 and couples. And the program vastly expanded In 1976, the contraceptive prevalence rate the 70% range and has largely stayed there. The This resulted in a reduction from over 30 births per 1,000 But it's not that simple. Most notably, you can as early as 1984, five years before the new policy First and foremost, gains in women's education. the government continued its commitment to From 1966 to 1996, girls' literacy rate rose from areas. Many more Iranians were entering higher Education tends to expand people's childbearing for later. Tied to this, Iranian In 1976, it was about 19 years old. By 2006, it is hard to argue this to be a major Another major factor are Iran's urbanization that urban areas as early as 1976. By 1996, over There was also the continuing In 1984, 60 babies out of 1,000 live this had been cut in half to just a majestic improvement. But fewer babies passing One can also point to the stagnant economy. in the West and East Asia. Education children. A bad economy makes it harder Isolated from the world, Iran's economy has high paying jobs difficult. High inflation, the for children beyond number 3 made rearing ## Reversals 1989 Family Planning Policy was The government did not lay out a timeline the policies remained in place into 2005, Iranian presidents at the time, Akbar But then in 2005, with the country's a new more conservative president came to power - as wanting a return to the principles One topic he remarked on was the family the 2006 Census, showing a drastic slowing attacking the existing birth control policy. In &gt; "Two children are not enough, Iran's In 2010, Iran was estimated to have about under 35 years old. Over 28% of its people Ahmadinejad called the two-child policy asserting that the West feared that Iran's In another speech in 2010, he said that Iran Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei somewhat the family planning policy was right when it &gt; &quot;its continuation in later years was wrong we will face population aging and reduction (in The Supreme Leader's words marked a 2012. The family planning agencies were like vasectomies were banned, were no longer free, which has raised On the carrot side, Ahmadinejad presented a new children. Every new child would have $950 $95 a year until they turned 18. I cannot find ## The Collapse The 2012 reversal did produce a Rates rose to a steady 2.0 But they have since collapsed down I do note that a few have argued that the official that the ratio of total birth statistics to But regardless, the trend remains intact. same. Couples delaying first marriage and opportunity, expensive housing, higher expense of childrearing, what have you. Today, Iran's population of 89 million a year. That rate is slowing. If trends do not This extrapolates out to some line. It is widely known that Japan, South Korea, and maybe the People's Republic of China are some But Iran is projected to be right there with some 31% of Iranians will be over the Some aging models - and I know, accuracies Iran is projected to be the world's of percentage point increase It is for this reason that Supreme Leader repeatedly mentioned the need for boosting the But his goal of 150 million Iranians by 2050 which is a can of worms I shall not Iran is instead on track to be the ## Conclusion Of course, Iran is not the only facing the challenge of According to 2012 UN data, seven of declines between 1950 and 2010 without massive oil reserves have found Demography is not destiny. I make no comment on But one issue I see is that such societies are or Europe are. There are few old age pensions, If the state does not move soon to provide then those people will suffer in