This is a LEGO knight, and this I challenge myself to build both of these medieval area of our LEGO city called That's right, we're doing two houses in baseplates into a thriving medieval world team captains. First is the "Knight of the shame that this great torso gets covered the best part is clearly the new hobby horse But a lot of your name suggestions failed Kelly. Or Knilee. Eh, let's just split And the "Green Dragon Costume" minifig captain Series 18, but still pretty cool. It reminds we've got a nice little squad of dragons going on you can click that JOIN button below custom emojis, and other perks. Now Knelly and Charlotte are sworn enemies, and strong enough to withstand the battle at the so we better get started on Knelly's castle. or even white, no no no. We're going back to the the classic Yellow Castle. Back in 1978 when this so they made the first castle bright yellow, a LOT of yellow in the city, but since it's this. Apparently I own a few of the pieces from but they're gonna be important details we can use this pink banner sticker that matches OG drawbridge but we do have chains now, which figure out a crank mechanism, but you can still that nasty Charlotte out, who really wants But building something this tall while still I'm approaching it bit by bit, designing different like an onion, or an ogre. You know we almost this bottom layer using fences sandwiched between and these telescopes I stole from a sailor for build green pillars the same color as Charlotte with plates. There's a peg jutting out here in and above that I rounded out the entryway built border to surround these big imposing doors we use a dragon decal that kind of looks like a bat, but the walls on this layer I used minifig ladders, but on the inside we've got these big banners in blue, red, and yellow to add an extra splash here with all sorts of dragon-themed artifacts ender dragon head from Minecraft, dragon and these suits of armor with dragon shields the dragon scroll from Kung Fu Panda, the... house- (I don't know-), a piece from the LEGO game Smawg. Finally in the middle we've got But all this museum talk is really starting more. You can't have a drawbridge without for... reasons... so to separate it from the up on this rock formation. These marbled Big so I covered everything in dark green grass that color covered in transparent blue bricks for a circle, complete with a cascading waterfall. but to support the colors that did, I'm these larger bricks for toddlers can actually bottom. They use DUPLO for the insides of those save pieces supporting this middle island up, I have no idea how I'm going to fit the rest of up--uh... both those sound like "future me" problems, I built some rafters up here to hang this attached to a wagon wheel using illegal building but that's so you can actually see it technic pole things to round off the corners--had but that's fine 'cause we never use it. to slope everything inwards on each of the thing. Alright stop. I really like the gray this cool technique of combining slopes. I tiled so I dunno what happened there but I made this I built up the next layer, and the next one using the tower is exactly the same height as this black later. For now I wanted to make windows using this Record with phone) Except it required studs on the techniques to get it flush with the rest of the just a matter of filling all the weird gaps this things. On the inside behind the removable wall, I out, so I got some wood pieces to build a dinner the red dragon, Godzilla, uh this is definitely there we go. And the invisible dragon. Gotta love comment your suggestions if you want. Speaking episode, we're putting the Minecraft pig on the and Miss Piggy on the brick floor. Don't On a completely unrelated note, I built this with lots of hot dogs, AND I think it's These side towers from the original probably on this side of the moat? Kind of defeats but we can build the side walls which makes it even less safe, but we can add knights a fighting chance. Knights plural, Robert Inhood to defend the castle at long range. ...where we've got a little stand for drinks, an a candelabra up on the wall and a holder rain. What a lovely little interior, let's move on to the next layer sloping upward it all off for the final removable floor that's last time--this thing is MASSIVE. SO big that I on it separately because it was just getting pieces with plates pushed into the back--may but the main feature of this floor will be a bunch of transparent pieces. Incorporating this janky setup sort of working, but we can Speaking of arches, I mirrored the front of the the arches, leaving space on the top here for a my drawbridge clip anymore, so I replaced it with open and closed--which is very satisfying now. But at designing floors, so to fill some of the empty using the original set's windows and this door we can store extra weapons and ammunition. I'm getting sick of reaching over everything and just such a mess here with my professional just crawling onto the table, dropping pieces Gerold. Every castle needs a King, so I built kingdom with some flags behind him. For the rest of the walls on this floor, so I designed these intricate and these spinny platforms wedged under an but that's so we can decorate in here... after narrow at the top, so I widened it out and slightly evil-looking horns onto. Now we need a no, NO. I think this molded dragon could work, it that're annoying for torches but connect it's spitting straight fire. And if I connect the tallest thing we've ever built, though not Inside this top floor I want to make a vault for in a big pile she can swim through like Scrooge the Ducktales figs a while ago full of golden with a whole bunch of other stuff like jewels, helmets, pretty much everything INCLUDING the but this particular treasure looks familiar... When we started this channel over 5 years ago, I to all of your incredible support these past cool hanging over the city like this--mess and the dragon tower into place. It's not really anything. We do need to replace the backdrop now that this has happened twice. Very frustrating to (*disappointment*) Yeah, probably should move the not done yet. Both these things need a staircase can commence. I had to get creative building course we stole the middle for the tower. It works many things for the dragons, so I stole these horn skeleton bridge connected to the front here and Now before we finally unleash death on this world, bushes, an apple tree that makes it even easier There's a shark in the ocean and freshwater a viewing tent using this fabric from a camper Just kidding, you could use the hobby horse but that belongs in an arcade. We actually one point I considered buying the Lion's Castle some of its minifigures to the area, but I'm not that would be *ahem* crazy, so we're just gonna Tyler for the other jouster--he's now whoever drops their sword first loses. practice sword fighting with, Sir Duckington to and... Dave to watch the Jousting. We also called Series 22, to serenade everyone while he's not have the same logo as Knelly, which is cool. But the dragons summoned some help: now there's like an hour of struggle to hang this up using after some brief backstory, let's cue the Well that took forever to clean up, but the factions finally came to a truce! They one they would need to join their forces MWWHAAA HAA HAAA HAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!