We are going to be spending the next seven How does this place exist? Although it may look like this city is built inside a mine, and with countless uncharted Who knows what horrors we'll run into. These are the stairs How old are these stairs? Older than us. All right, now that we're down here. We are 400ft underground right now This is nuts. During World War Two, when thousands of people would hide here. And now just a bunch And soon enough, we found a I think we should camp here. You're the boss. Our stuff is all So with home base decided, and using all our we discovered the best way Oh! That's awesome. That's dead on! We just finished fishing Our food for the challenge and we each brought What's in yours Karl? Let's look at somebody else's. You get the point. You guys want to know We've barely seen any The walls that surround us There's even a chamber as Where? What? However, what these guys I'm bringing a famous YouTuber But the more YouTubers that joined us, You just got here, bro. We're going to bed because I have a big That's ominous Day one in the underground city was a Good morning. bro why? It's gonna be a great day. First thing in the morning, I took everyone Starting today, every single morning, a Our surprise guest, coming is JiDion! Welcome to the underground city. This is legit a city. There's even a Ferris wheel here. Yeah, but that's not all. So we have not been up these stairs yet, and is not that the most ominous Boys, come up here. Lazarbeam has a fear of heights. Why are we doing this to me? Today we're conquering Oh my gosh. How are you so calm? If I'm gonna die, I'm gonna Oh, God. All right, we have a I feel so much safer now. Well, don't get too comfortable, because just around the corner, Access forbidden. Oh heck no - Wait. Oh no, no, no. Alright guys, looks safe! Are we sure there's not like people Only one way to find out. This does feel like Oh, no. These boards either held up a sign that It definitely did. Or they're just I think they're here for This doesn't look creepy at all. Hey everyone, for 1000 years they've This is a dark chocolate Hear me out. What if we put Straight from the source. That's so good. It tastes really good. And for climbing Where is this leading us? I'm not sure. Going where we Wait. What does What does that mean? Karl, put your hands like this. Dude. We probably can't As eerie as these tunnels were, the creepiest were still yet to come as As you can see, Tomorrow's gonna be a fun day. We'll see you in the morning. Alright. It's the start of day three, Let's go see who the special I see a shadow! Is it Kai? Maybe it's Speed? I see two shadows! There's two of them?! Today the two guests are! Sam and Colby! Yeah! If you don't know already, Sam and Colby specialize in exploring so it'll be interesting when we explore this Are we going? See how high the ceiling is? Well apparently, there's like a and I want to see Lannan's reaction Meanwhile, the others are Alright, alright, you'll do stuff here, Oh I get it, you're Yeah! Yeah. Has no clue what's Alright, let's get to As we went deeper than before, I never could have guessed how I think Sam and Colby should lead the We love creepy holes, you know? That makes sense. Yeah, lead the way. You're getting farther I'm right behind you. Oh, we got two ways. This way. Karl! I got Colby so good That scared the crap out of him. Anyway, we kept walking until we eventually This is sketch! There's just a Wait wait wait, really? What do we make of this cross? The one thing that we is there is a legend that and they created an because it's where the That sounds awesome! Yo, that's the hole Oh, is that the hole? I feel like there's a Should I go over there? I'll watch from here. Dude, I can see our camp! Look! Shawn! Oh, they're way up above us. How's it going? We have a shower boys! They just yelled How did you do that? First we'll make a shower head out of Lannan! Come check this out! I'm coming. Lannan, you can't be I'm coming bro, I'm No, no, no. We're overcoming our fears. Having now explored and with a way to this underground But there was still plenty to do because by the next our day four special guest Wait they're short! Is the biggest Twitch streamer Kai Cenat! Welcome to the underground city! Alright Kai I want you to jump What the heck? Kai now that you're And nothing's gonna Is that foreshadowing? Bro, you just got here! Oh God! Kai, I specifically saved So let's go explore it! So using these boats, we That's right, a lake, And on the other side, our next set of Karl should go first. I'll go first. There's a door in the hole. What is behind that door? We got to get in You got it, you got it, you got So after a boost from Shawn - See you Shawn! I see this in movies all the time. When What's the game plan? You gotta go straight, then right is always right, opposite of your left hand side. But once you go straight, So after trekking through What happened? What? It literally just opened They told me there was another so I thought it'd be fun if we - Dude This is unreal! Hey wait, be careful Yeah I'm gonna jump. Wait you're gonna jump? Bye guys! Kai where are you going? Bye! If it's safe for him... Yeah this is cool! - Together! Hello! It sounds like I'm over there! Now they're all down there I'm gonna turn the Ready? - Hey! Come on! Come on! They're leaving us. Hurry! Come on, come on, come on. Come on, come on, come on. Lock them in! He's leaving us! Oh God! Later nerds! Open it! You're gonna break Karl's arm! Pull! Pull! I'm letting go. Hey man! What? What's what? Is y'all trying to leave us? No! I heard you say "later losers" Who? You! No... He tried to trap us No no, you can stay down there. So with tensions running high we decided to turn in for the night, and this time with JiDion's help. We're going to prank Everyone's asleep right now. We're gonna have this mannequin standing on We're gonna play Kai's song We ready? I think we're... Are we being attacked? They're playing my song That's your song? Yes. See that light over there? All the way at the top? At least it's a good song though Whoever has done this has What are you gonna do Oh boy. I will dedicate my entire I will wipe them and their Lines are being drawn, These last few days I'm gonna try to go back to bed. I'm the only one Everyone is still asleep I think our guest is about to arrive. - Yo. What's good, bro? Usually Jimmy's here to give a - You can go wake him up. Yeah, you want to go do that. Good morning Logang! Chandler's excited to Our day five guest is Let's go. This video is just me seeing how Hey, guys. You know Karl. JiDion. Last night, it was Karl and JiDion and I think I can speak for everyone This was Karl's bed he Hope where he's sleeping I was sick of that guy anyway. Alright, LazarBeam's One final thing, I We're going to go wake him up. Wakey, wakey. Oh my god. I just woke up to Logan Paul. Karl, I got a surprise for you. You might be a bit sleepy, So I threw your Dude I hate this With the prank war actually Kai decided to step up and Does anybody object I vote that the shortest I don't object. To establish some Mayor Kai first punished JiDion and I've got to warn you, with this city's population having everything you're gonna witness Alright, you'll sleep Elevator? If they're in the elevator, We gotta take 15 flights of stairs, Kai? You're not thinking! Bro! You just got here, bro! - You just got here last night. Why is he the mayor? Alright, we need to start You guys, go ahead and Enjoy your dictatorship. Hey, enjoy your elevator. Yeah, enjoy your Bro, me laying down this And me laying like Now that the criminals are First things first. I think we should have a place just It should go right there. So just to clarify, we're moving for no reason. No, because Kai told us. Honestly, this does nothing. Now Alright, maybe making Kai So after doing some more the day one boys and I set Alright, we'll be So while we've explored just about every I have a special one here - You see this dead end right here? What if I told you No! Dude, what is this? There you go. What?! There's a fake door Where's the Let's find out. Alright, get this, the tunnel was so It's still going! This is the longest tunnel I see the light. And at the end of the tunnel That I built. Yo! Brand new MrBeast Box that comes with the Feastables bar. And meanwhile, back at camp, the other I think we move all their That's the day one bridge. Let's do it. Let's go. I got Jimmy's. And then I'll grab Lazar's. I've never been this The MrBeast Box your favorite sides from Zaxby's, and it's about to so if you haven't Zaxby's also has a ton of sauces. This is good. This is good sauce. Yeah, right here. Perfect. For the first 30 days in October, we're giving away $10,000 in a random and on Halloween night, we're Just post a photo of you holding a The Feastables bars can also be used to I'm so happy right now. Don't miss out. Go get yourself a MrBeast I think we're all The other people in the city We did not eat Zaxby's. Now, what I failed to realize is what would happen when you with nothing to do for hours. Why do you guys While you guys were gone, we made So we're gonna have a town hall meeting - Okay. This better be good. - Are you guys ready? Welcome to York New City. Everything is just so messy. Go to the next slide. We let the new gen So what about the day one-ers? You guys are now on the bridge. But we have a master bedroom. Somebody is Alright, I think Day one-ers come on, come Come on, come on, let's go. Have fun. Yo, where y'all going? No, we can't let him get You're right. No, no, no! Shawn, stop them! Shawn! No! Kai, we all wanted to talk What? You've turned into a dictator. - What? We've got to move I quit bro! You gotta make all the rules up I almost broke my neck. You good? As a show of If you guys follow me here, I get a Prime and Feastables? Nice, the cheese It's good. Fire. It actually is so good. So after a day of toppling a corrupt government, and then becoming friends again, Alright. Good night, you hooligans. Good morning everybody. Will everyone please Who do you guys think the next I think it's IShowSpeed. He's literally It's the entire Sidemen. Could be Jynxzi. All right, let's see who it is. That's Speed. That's Send them down! That's a massive box. It's a girl. Oh, it could be a girl. Our day six special guest of All right, here we go. What is that gigantic box? Lannan you're going to be excited for this - Which way do you want me to open it? Let's go! For day six, we actually have So boys, welcome to Yeah, we've done this tour like Alright, follow me, boys. If you guys want, we can hit As long as you promise It's not too high though. - Do not jump, bro. No! Stop! Stop! I ain't gonna lie bro, I love y'all, Hey Speed! Dude, y'all stink I'm You just look like you stink. I just took a shower. There's no showers here, though. You'll see. - Stop lying. You're lying! Bro, your lying! That's must! It's must! How do you smell? Lift it up. Dude, get out of there. Is that Old Spice? Yes. You know! Good move, stinky boy. Get And unsurprisingly, the first thing was the underground Y'all played a game - No. How have you not played a game? Blue is on a team. Chandler, - Y'all got all the athletes. Bro, thats a stacked team! It's even. All Come on, Speed. Come Go back! Jidion, Jidion. Kick it! Punt it! Keep scoring! Blue team won. Blue teams won. Let's As we were going to we caught something on We caught Logan Don't put that in. After soccer, we which, honestly, Lazar I'll give you $100 if - Right here? We even climbed the You do some dumb stuff If I get injured, the WWE So will my fiance, though. I'm going to be a dad. What We also projected a video We're creating We're the first ones that ever play Hole too big! Hole too big! And lastly, we climbed just to play the most insane The only thing stopping It's not even stable. Let's get in position, Yo, Lazar, try to catch Here we go. Here we go. It's a parachute. And just for you to understand it took nearly ten entire seconds for Oh, that is coming Alright, dropping Here they come! Catch it. I see them! One! Two! Karl! Dude, it's so close. Hey, Logan. Got a - You got it, you got it. Come on, baby! Let's go! Of course, when it's And for the last we made a campfire in the All right everybody, what was Well, it's actually I enjoyed the friends I made. Yeah. I enjoyed toppling Why is he the mayor? Enjoy your dictatorship. I quit bro! My favorite part was just dragging all deep underground, and forcing them I'm grateful for you all coming out. And boys, with only one day we've really started All right, cut the lights off. We'll see you All right, guys, good night. - Good night. What a wonderful day! Time to go home. Please hurry. And after we cleaned it was finally time to This was fun. I just got here why I've been here forever. Our first time seeing In a week! Ah, it's so bright, dude. Oh my God. Now go outside and