Through its faith, its steel and its gunpowder and every storm set against it for two-and-a-half-thousand But the lands that would become known throughout the stalwart bastion of humanity they are They were once dark and dangerous, inhabited another just as the world's nightmares preyed But that was all to change with the rise of Welcome to the inaugural Wizards and Warriors Sit down, relax and immerse yourself into among many, started imagining an empire with We are proud to announce that this video is will allow you to experience strategy gaming to the Total War: WARHAMMER trilogy. We have been fans of the Total War series title for thousands of hours, but even among a special place for its exquisite strategic battles, endless replayability across dozens The third and final game in the series will Warhammer Fantasy Battles, including the video-game of Chaos - Khorne, Nurgle, Slaanesh and most diverse array of legendary heroes, gargantuan that the series has ever seen. The game will be released on February 17th Support our channel and pre-order Total War: to get the early adopter bonus - Ogre Kingdoms Will you conquer your daemons? Or command them? Between 1,500 and 1,000 years before the creation Dwarves of the Worlds Edge Mountains began tribes into the lands between the Worlds Edge to escape the predation of deadly enemies Over the next thousand or so years, these number of petty barbarian kingdoms. But they were still easy prey for the numerous One of these tribes, whose fertile lands were north and the Grey Mountains in the south, at Reikdorf, the Unberogens were, like most a ferocious warrior people with brutal, martial He was Ulric, god of battle, winter, and wolves. Unberogen settlements were assaulted constantly the deep, dark forests as well as warmongering mountains. As though to compound the horror, fellow human and Merogens would also routinely attack Unberogen It was in the year -30 IC - or 'Imperial in the midst of a melee between the retainers band, a melee which led to his mother Griselda's Sigmar thus came into the world with the sound of both Greenskin and human blood on his infant Overhead flew the famous twin-tailed comet, This scion of the Unberogen royal line rapidly childhood. When charged by the fearsome stallion-sized Sigmar alone of his hunting party boldly stood Rather than hunting the beast as initially character by dislodging a spear that had been ending its torment. Perhaps the most renowned of the young Sigmar's Karaz-a-Karak was assailed and captured by Young Sigmar, still just a 'manling' at to rescue the beleaguered Dwarves. Amid his assault on the Greenskin camp, he their hulking warlord Vagraz Headstomper in In gratitude to the human, Dwarf King Kurgan the priceless runic warhammer of his age-old Not long after returning victorious to Reikdorf called to stand before his proud father, together longhouse's great hall. As was tribal custom, Bjorn's heir was expected manhood at the age of fifteen. Luckily for the young warrior, yet another had stormed down from the southern mountains the land and its people en route to a small Sigmar was ordered to ride south with half total, track and then put a swift end to the further damage on the Unberogen people. But he would not go alone, he had noble companions Wolfgart was first. Loyal and headstrong, always raring for a Second - Pendrag, a diplomatic, tactful, and Finally, Trinovantes was quiet, reserved, between two extremes. All were warriors born and bred. That evening, each warrior who was to venture morning assembled in the Dwarf-wrought great In yet another Unberogen custom known as Blood seen as the last supper. They sat down beside their comrades to eat for the occasion. Ale was devoured entire tankards at a time, made and blood sacrifice offered to UIric. When the sun rose, the entire population of column of 300 mounted Unberogen fighters, through the gates and vanished beyond the As the aging tribal ruler watched his prodigious to himself "T'is the loneliest thing to Only later did he think more of this, adding lonelier here, as a father, waiting for his Sigmar and his three-hundred blazed a trail of the Reik River. The band pushed down a track flanked by dark by minuscule riverside settlements. Although these were Unberogen lands, the disconnected by nature and, upon seeing such a formidable As most foul creatures of the region were riders met no resistance along the way and a few leagues to the east of the city and side of which was Astofen. Scouts were swiftly detached to get a measure encamped, maintaining strict quiet and refusing become aware of them. After a tense night's rest, Sigmar, Wolfgart, get a good birds-eye view of the situation Astofen was an assortment of tightly packed-together with guard towers at each corner. The besieged town lay within a 'bowl' Sigmar's warriors were encamped behind. Its southern wall was further shielded by Half a league away from the town was a narrow the south. Good country for mounted warfare. Sigmar observed carefully, believing the terrain However, the situation for the townspeople Beyond their thoroughly inadequate palisade howling Greenskins, beating war drums, and These monsters were ready to sack Astofen to pieces. Among their number were regular Orcs, fearsome goblins who operated catapults and loosed the flammable, wood and thatch town. Most imposing of all were the mighty black massive chieftain Grimgut Bonecrusher who As Sigmar and his companions watched on, twenty a massive siege ram, shaped like a massive Some brave men of Astofen braced the gate spears from atop the wall. Despite inflicting casualties, it was clear eventually. Sigmar had to act fast or the town and all Quickly returning to camp with a plan in mind, Trinovantes - brave, measured, and calm, to outer hills, where they would take up an ambushing While this small detachment gradually eased pointed out, the main force of 200 to 250 of battle. The first was led by Sigmar himself and were Wolfgart's command had recurve bows. Both deployed on the reverse slope of the see them, waiting for Trinovantes' prearranged The Battle at Astofen Bridge was about to Time passed slowly. There was, as of yet, no sign of Trinovantes' whatsoever. Sigmar's attack could not go ahead until were squeezing Astofen harder and harder by If the Unberogens did not act soon, it would Wolfgart, fiery as ever, vigorously pressed prince held him back. Trinovantes would pull through. As though to repay his blood brother's confidence, of Trinovantes was raised into the wind beyond The signal had given, and the trap was ready. With no further delay, Sigmar lifted his spear As Wolfgart chanted the prince's name in stalwarts who had accompanied him "Unberogens. We ride!" Then, with an initial blast from Wolfgart's gallop over the crest of the hill. In beleaguered Astofen, Sigmar's appearance Salvation had come. The town's warriors fought with renewed from the walls as best they could. Amid his warmongering rabble of Orcs, Grimgut Beaten and coerced by the warlord's big siege and formed a loose front 'line' which Sigmar's brazen charge would have The onrushing tide of horsemen picked up speed army. Behind the Orcish spear-wall, thin-limbed potshots which mostly failed to hit their When missiles did indeed strike one of Sigmar's recently forged for them by the masterful in repelling most of the damage. Just prior to the point of impact, Sigmar quickly changed tact, each throwing their force of a ballista bolt. An iron hailstorm of razor-sharp spear tips the Orcs holding them or simply slaying the Dozens of Greenskins fell in this initial impact. At the last possible second, however, each prowess and sailed away from the enemy line, Bloodthirsty as always and seeking to get cavalry, Grimgut's spear wall splintered As the Unberogen first line peeled away from Wolfgart's second rank bore down on the even further. Sigmar's brazen comrade sounded yet another under his command fired a small, precise storm Following Sigmar's example, Wolfgart and and also darted back up the slope. The arrows found their mark almost universally. Some struck a bullseye, penetrating Orcish merely stuck impotently into thick shields The irritating arrows were, however, not intended At this latest denial of a face-to-face melee, charging like berserkers in pursuit of the spears of their own at Wolfgart's retreating their horses. When the onrushing Greenskin tsunami reached mercilessly silenced by cleaver, ax, or an Atop the hill, Sigmar let loose a bellow of but reformed and rearmed his line of horsemen Wolfgart did likewise when most of his own his friend. As the disorganised mass of muscled Greenskins Sigmar let loose a horn blast and led his Once more the Unberogen cavalry picked up reaching the level ground at full tilt. This time the riders did not wheel about but the fist of Ulric himself. Their front rank collapsed instantly upon Sigmar impaled a Greenskin warrior through before hefting Ghal Maraz and smashing helmeted But the cavalry maneuver was reliant solely With that petering out, the numerically superior even as their front shattered, pushing back down in a rip-and-tear melee. The physically weaker humans could never win Despite inflicting heavy casualties, here by Orcs, encircled, and dragged from their For Sigmar, the time to enact the final stage It was now or never. Two short, sharp blasts sounded from the Unberogen cavalry to disengage from the costly, grinding In ragged bands, they rode hard to the south Most of the survivors managed to escape the shields. Some, however, proved too slow off the mark by their monstrous enemy. All in all, fully 150 of Sigmar's men managed plain beyond, where fresh weaponry had been The replacements had been cunningly piled would be battle-ready by default even whilst Then, as the warlord Bonecrusher led his thousand fifty of the most muscular and hefty Unberogen armour, marched from hiding places at either These stalwart volunteers of Trinovantes' in formed up ranks and assumed a blocking Their job was simple - hold the Orcish horde enough time to reorder his cavalry. As the last of the battered human stragglers ax, kissed Ulric's wolf icon with which rattle to his wall of armoured warriors "Unberogens. We march!" With that last hurrah, the vanguard of the Trinovantes' blocking force. Obstructed by the fast-flowing river and the to mass on the riverbank and behind their meat grinder. Unberogen spears were thrust by the dozen, back against the dark green flood. Still, the sheer force of the assault was came on bellowing. Trinovantes' fifty-strong contingent was forced back across the Astofen Bridge. Half a league behind the nightmarish melee, rearm as quickly as they could. The troops needed no such encouragement. Each and every one of them keenly recognised cost - the lives of their comrades and friends. A brief rest was had, fresh blades and shields At the slaughterhouse on the bridge, brave bay and slaying vast numbers of them, despite Unberogen warriors were dying all along the by the inhuman invaders. Sigmar's most level-headed companion slew Bonecrusher personally joined the fray. The chief Greenskin found Trinovantes and back. With that, the few remaining Unberogen infantry the Greenskins to spill out onto the plain. Realising that Trinovantes had just been slain let out a grief-stricken howl at the head Meanwhile the Orcs, their cohesion broken instinctive blood rage, uncontrollably fanned With Ghal Maraz raised to the heavens, Sigmar at the Greenskin rabble. The only one among their ranks who seemed Bonecrusher himself, who desperately and unsuccessfully of defensive line. It was already far too late for the rampaging After unleashing a final volley of spears the unformed herd like a hot knife through Orcs, isolated or in small groups, died by into the bloodsoaked earth by ironclad hooves. The Unberogen leader smashed his foe aside center of the horde. When he got there, Sigmar brought Ghal Maraz the warlord's skull. That was the end of the battle. Deprived of their leader, every thread of tore apart. The creatures mindlessly turned on one another, to escape first. Those Orcs attempting to rush back across who sallied out to push away the remaining of heroes. Almost all of the 2,000 Greenskins were killed That night, the victors were hosted in Astofen Eadhelm, before riding back to Reikdorf in Not long after their return, Sigmar, who had his two remaining companions - Pendrag and Reikdorf was founded in ancient days. There Sigmar spoke to his companions of a of humanity bound together in a single entity off Greenskins or any other horror the world The Unberogen prince held up Ghal Maraz and of the land and upon this mighty weapon that are united and strong." These words, and the Battle of Astofen Bridge path to unite the empire and become the most Our next few videos will be dedicated to Warhammer the battles of all major fantasy worlds, so the bell button! Please, consider liking and sharing - this the almighty algorithm. We'll try to read and respond to every comment video and which videos you hope to see in to us! This is the Kings and Wizards channel and