Look what we are seeing, this is like like two meters away, something like that. [Music] Good morning friends, what's up my cracks. Another day in the Galapagos Islands, scientist Luisillo ready to analyze thoroughly to find the most &quot;crack&quot; species of all, the &quot;crack-attua&quot;, their addiction to crack? Stay tuned to find out. It is really cool, really nice to be in the Galapagos Islands. We'll begin this day with a &quot;what a disturbing fact&quot;, you like that idea folks? Oh you didn't like it? Well guess what?, I don't care because this is not live, I already recorded it, i'm uploading it afterwards, so your opinion doesn't matter, &quot;crook&quot;. many of you know this, Charles Darwin came to the Galapagos To build his Theory of Evolution of Species. joined the expedition through South America for somewhat disturbing around eighteen hundred and something the United Kingdom through the South American lands. They had already sent a captain to do the expedition, but, it really was a very long voyage, something around two years on water. Not just any ship's captain can withstand that much pressure. So, the captain ended up committing suicide. [bell tolls] He went insane having to be giving orders to sailors and having to be driving a guide. So, he lost his mind and ended up committing suicide, which led to to undertake a new voyage. But of course they didn't want They didn't want another captain to take his own life. intellectual person, in order to entertain them mentally and who is at their scholar level, someone And spend days, months and years with them, so they thought of several prospects. They turned to a botanist called Adam Sedgwick, I hope I'm saying said &quot;of course&quot;, but when this man, good Adam told his wife &quot;hey my love I am going to go away for two years to explore South America&quot;, if you go on a two year expedition, say goodbye to me. &quot;ok ok ok love don't worry I'm not going to leave&quot; he had to a very intelligent and interesting man to the British authorities, named Charles Darwin. They told Darwin, he said of course he would, and was initially for profit, for business purposes, man was so rebellious that he said &quot;you know what, since I'm here, evolution of the species&quot; which at that time was an obscure controversial. If you believed in that kind of thing you were a heretic, really, you could get your life taken away from you, they could imprision you for thinking like that. Darwin was a very bold man. But well, my point is, is it deserved?, is it Luisillo? of the Species would most likely not have happened, if it hadn't been for the fact that one person What a very very disturbing fact. With this, that might keep a lot of people this adventure. Today we will be visiting more of of the species that sparked some very interesting thoughts This will undoubtedly be very very cool, it will have a very high degree of epicness. Let's go for it. [Music] Arriving at Seymour North Island. Look, right behind me called blue-footed booby. This animal but it does give us an example of how, my friends, too important. Even if you like to think which it is, it is, I second that motion, Just like in order for a boy to attract a girl he grooms himself, he smells nice, blue-footed boobies base much of their attractiveness legs. You can see how their feet are very blue, a little bit whiter, there are others that have a very female know if this blue-footed booby has good genes, and by having good genes, will give me good offspring, to think in animals in nature appearance is of [Music] Ow, look how many crabs! Watch how it moves its mouth. that we can really capture how it moves its little mouth. See, with this lens we can appreciate this animal much better. And again, with this animal we can see another example Notice how this is a very deep red, really penetrating, while there they are completely black. Let's see, the their priority is to camouflage so that they are not among the rocks, watch, there are several of these black ones So, the goal of these little black ones is to conceal while the goal of these penetrating red ones is that they scare away predators, make them say &quot;no no no, that thing for four days straight and I don't want that holy heaven, I don't want to have the backdoor trots and poisoned&quot;. It's pretty crazy how animals adapt, in a way, Appearance is important in nature [Music] We are watching a very interesting little animal. So this is a tiny frigatebird, this is a baby, on its nest. Imagine how big they are if that's a baby, as adults have a wingspan of two meters. animal because they are like the aerial nature's bullies these guys do is, instead of them going to fresh little fish, go looking for snail, maybe a helpless lizard. These guys say &quot;no dude, I'm not going to be hunting my So to birds that do hunt and that have already eaten, these guys come and because they are large they take advantage of their size and grab the other birds, and shake them to make them dizzy in order for these birds vomit, these &quot;cracks&quot; eat their vomit and so they feed. Such weird animals, and show us that there are also bullies within nature. There are also those who break the rules, mock the system, I'm being told how for these birds, the frigatebirds, females have a white chest, while males have red chests. males inflate their red chest to show the female Then another male comes along and says &quot;no, look And then, yet another one comes along and says &quot;no no! It's comparable to when stuck up guys at clubs ordering eight bottles of champagne, like &quot;I'm getting 6&quot;, &quot; oh!, then I'm buying 8&quot;, &quot;I'll get 12 then&quot;. It's the same thing! We are animals my friends, I agree with bros, we are indeed very wild, we're just another animal. and horrendous of all, of the whole nature in this planet. I don't know what you may think about this, but myself, when looking at all of these displays that nature gives us we have evolved from more primitive animals, [Music] Let's see, let's see, we stumbled upon this big iguana and, pfft, it's pretty crazy. This is the Galapagos Iguana and it has a very interesting story check it out. There are plenty of these iguanas here right now, but they are not from the Island of Baltra, which is where the airport is located Well it turns out that a &quot;crack&quot; from California, named Baltra, where these huge beautiful piercing yellow iguanas are originally from, there was going to be a U.S. military base installed during the time of the Second World War. You're kidding, they'll bring the war here So this &quot;crack&quot; took it upon himself to relocate a certain number of What this man predicted did happen, To sum up, war happened and they became extinct and that prevented the species from becoming extinct. watching this, of course you're not watching deserve it because you rescued the Galapagos I guana. heroic story, and that is that the iguanas by settling on this island, the cacti that are very representative and that live on this island. the cactus wasn't prepared for the event of &quot;an iguana is going cacti here are running out. And that's why today, &quot;Hey, we love the iguanas very much, they are beautiful, affect other species&quot; because on this island over the decades, they are causing the demise Especially nature when humans intervene. If the happy as ever, but no. Very complicated, still continues to exist, just look at it, a yellow iguana, and impressive shades of color that continue to exist I showed you the huge poop of a turtle? Well, this is It looks like its from a dog, and big dog, none of those like Watch this iguana dude, this is the image of it's poop, it was sh*t on very possibly by the whole pigeon kingdom pities you. OMG, No, no, no, brother, frigatebirds are the real sh*tters, not only do they shit on helpless iguanas, they crap all over their home, all their surroundings. The aroma covered like they said we're going to paint the island white makeover, there's no paint? we'll crap on it. Welcome the [Music] Ok see, what we're watching is those two little birds I'm going to try to capture the sound they make. This bros really whistle like humans. Let's see if I can get it. [Birds whistling] You don't know how to imitate that sound, do you Fausto? [Fausto imitates birds] You do it quite well. [Fausto imitates birds] [Birds whistling] I feel that they whistle like a human, who doesn't know how to whistle. [Luisito whistles] We won't make you whistle anymore. The only one I can do is: [Luisito whistles] Blue-footed birds I'm a better whistler than you guys I've just been given a piece of information that makes me think a lot the preservation of a species and the overpopulation we were walking and we come across this frigatebird skeleton. its parents no longer recognize it so they let it die. frigatebir chick. As a result of that, the good Fausto here, who you met last video, was telling me that only 40 percent of the species usually survive, right? So, from a 100 percent reproduction rate, only And the remaining 60 percent is part of like it's a life insurance. All of a sudden you get replaced. This is actually good, because if we had a 100 percent reproduction and survival rate we'd have a overpopulations. What you want is to replace (exactly) Exactly, so I really loved that, assume that in fact if 100% survived there would be an overpopulation. Then let's see, this is a very very primitive thought, evolved in such a way and have developed this natural order, that we can cure many, Which is great, it's excellent, but... what are overpopulation of human beings. You know, it's not like on another one, or you're going to see an animal being cured veterinarian, without the intervention of a human. I don't know, for the better, I mean I'm not saying it is wrong- on that side, but!, at the same time that we've done this existence of an overpopulation. I don't know, it's just a really crazy Like, huh, nature is very, very intriguing like, realizing where we are! It is that we can see it at its full best, and so I'm having a great place to ponder about these any thoughts or whatever, I'd love to [Music] OMG I'm dying from love. Look at what we're getting to see. It is a very cool scene, that's like the mommy here to soak and its keeping an eye on them, taking care of them, like &quot;yeah just for a little bit&quot;. And this little guy for example, said like &quot;nah, I'm tired of swimming to dry off for a little while. Hey little buddy! Drying off for a bit or what? handsome, you are so pretty. And I mean, this is happening right here, What's up buddy, all good out there? You had a good swim? This buds are so cute, very cute really but how scary at the same time. all agree that they can pull a finger off you. If their mom gets it is life changing honestly. So yeah, watch the babies from afar, that way you're not a threat. [Music] Now can we see that one? This is a Galapagos fur sea lion, endangered because they were hunted for their fur. The thing is makes it very special and very good for coats. But there are some surviving still here in Galapagos. [fur sea lion sounds] [Music] We are now exploring the Mosquera Island which is characterized by the fact that there's a great sighting of sea lions here. How are you little buddy? All good? We come to visit your home. We come in peace. And check this out, I'm being told a very shitty fact, and it is in a double sense, that this is a very shitty fact, in wow! folks, we are quite possibly a large percentage of poop, ok. Actual fact that I just that I'm grabbing, isn't really sand or by the poop of a living creature. So here you go, there are many species of fish in these waters. One of the fish that live here is the Parrot fish. teeth and they feed on corals, ok? It feeds on corals, like pebbles, all very hard and crunchy, so &quot;crunch crunch crunch&quot;, they chew it up, they go swimming over there and naturally they have to defecate eventually, they have to poop. So, what does an animal that only eats corals, that eats stones? It poops So they leave, poop somewhere out there and over thousands of years, obviously, this accumulates it's dragged by the tide and this island is formed. I ignore but surely a large percentage of it is. In one of the Galapagos Islands you walk on poop form a fish. What a shitty and semi disturbing fact. [Music] Back on dry land. Wow! What a beautiful day, of emotions. Experiences like this make me I feel very content, very happy to have made excited because there is more to see. There is all this we have seen is not even 4% of the entire How beautiful, how amazing and how cool to be able to come Be on the lookout, there is still more to come one more video left, one more trip. Maybe when you watch this, the next one might be up, so links below in the description. I'll see you in a few days with a new video, Luisito Darwin out. [Music]