In this land of law &amp; order that me and 46.8% sounds. You can't, for example, create a sonic boom You also can't, for example, broadcast the the sound "kill the president of the United But it kinda makes sense that both of those to kill the president are jobs best left to There is one illegal sound, however, that's of simple tones that sound like this... Okay, well it seems like my editors weren't have to do an impression of the sound myself. It's kind of like... oooo.... ooo... y'know what, let me just explain The story behind these illegal tones goes antiquated age when everyone was worried that nowhere for no reason. Prior to the Cold War, the US government didn't the entire country in the event of an emergency, So, in 1951, President Truman introduced the he shortened to CONELRAD, because I guess a disgraced lacrosse player. The way this system worked was pretty simple: around the country would begin transmitting special telephone lines. These stations would then alert other, smaller completely or begin broadcasting the message All of the stations broadcasting during the either 640 or 1240 and take turns relaying bombers to hone in on the source, and easier radios--that's why most American radios here and here. Basically, if your house was being bombed, listen to the President tell you that your even worked, which it pretty much didn't Awesome! As the Soviet Union found faster ways to deliver news. So, in the 1960s, CONELRAD was killed and called the Emergency Broadcasting System, System. Basically, the EAS is different from CONELRAD any radio station or television channel instead it actually works. Now, if you haven't spent the past three the basic rundown on what happens when the that got swept up in a tsunami and formed God, it's headed straight for the Liberty First, the FEMA National Radio System--headquartered House to the National Public Warning system, Then, these stations deliver the message to who are required by the FCC to have special immediately after receiving them... unless related, in which case they can opt out if the kid's not that cute. Now, these messages come in the form of what's is broken up into 3 basic parts. The first is called the "SAME" header, Horrible, right? Well, believe it or not, this sound isn't TV, it's actually densely encoded with information what kind of emergency there is. Then, before the actual text of the message called an "attention signal"--this, by about all those minutes ago. It's composed of two tones being played Again, for obvious reasons I'm not going those bad-boy websites like Wikipedia where After listening to the attention signal you I've ever heard," but those tones were they are to the human ear--unlike CONELRAD, emergency station, the Emergency Alert System they can listen up and find out exactly how Now, you've probably already figured this has been made illegal--at least under normal of the system and prevent a "boy who cried After all, if every Geico commercial used was a national emergency and that that emergency on car insurance, you would, at best, get there was an actual emergency. And, believe it or not, the FCC actually enforces and radio stations get massive fines for playing In 2020, the radio station WNEW got fined got a fine for using it on Jimmy Kimmel Live and in 2013, cable providers were forced to the trailer of Olympus Has Fallen, which briefly So, yeah, even if you're a massive cultural is still strictly off-limits. But you know who else committed crimes in Me! For those of you who haven't been keeping as Interesting's Crime Spree--follows my $5,000 trying to break eight of the United team tries to track me down. The third and final episode is out right now, you who haven't already started. Of course, the only way to watch Crime Spree started by me and my creator friends, where trivia show, our brick-themed-comedy-variety content from your favorite educational creators. The best way to get access to Nebula is with gets you access to CuriosityStream for the shows and documentaries like the latest Wendover All of this great, original content comes and you'll be supporting us by signing up to CuriosityStream.com/HAI.