Hello everybody and welcome back to another video! 7: the operating system released by Microsoft was released 3 years earlier. While Windows Windows 7 on the other hand was met with a lot of Vista in market share, and years later did the off support for the operating system back in computer market share worldwide. In today's process that eventually led to the creation of builds of the operating system compiled during and discussing some of the major changes that As I discussed in my Windows 7 End of Support become Windows 7 was actually devised 20 years Microsoft came up with a road map detailing their of these releases was known as Blackcomb, which which became Vista, and Whistler, which became project didn't go exactly as planned, which video. It wouldn't be until the summer of was working on a new release of Windows to which ultimately became the final, public release Microsoft compiled Build 6469 of Windows 7. actually the second earliest development build it resembles the previous release of Windows, in the initial setup process we can see that the build string at the bottom of the screen is 7"". Besides that the setup process is identical "Windows Vista" logo at the bottom, which can also on the Business SKU of Windows Vista. One major which has been changed to 6.1 (which would the desktop screams Vista, except for a couple modification is the slight design change to the the build string is displayed on the desktop Share Feedback" icon on the desktop. When opened, explaining how to share feedback and identify other cool things we can do is enable a very early would be introduced with Windows 7. This is Interestingly enough, all User Account Control now say "WEX Build Account" in place of "Microsoft HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/Microsoft/Windows/CurrentVersion/Explorer and create a new key called "TaskBand". Then add it a value of 1. Once Explorer is restarted, the feature complete in this build, the concept is aside from just making the taskbar larger. The and the buttons will now group if you have 2 feature that has been removed is the classic this build. There's also a hidden boot screen screen was not included with the final release 2 months later, Microsoft developers compiled 1 build and was the first to be released to I showcased, 6519 largely resembles Vista. screen. It now displays the setup background boot screen would not be seen in the final mostly identical to what we saw in the last meaning that we can select from a list of Windows OS as "Microsoft Pre-Release Windows 7 Operating from the bottom right. Our first sign of change bottom now says "Windows 7" as opposed to "Windows string is still seen on the desktop, however this There have also been some changes made to the removed. This is exactly how Windows 7 behaved. their experience. When clicked, a form will pop the developers. The Feedback icon on the desktop window that we saw on the gadget. Although this gadget pop out. Additionally in the system tray, similar to the final build of Windows 7. There's timer! After 10 seconds, it will automatically is "Open folder to view files". This feature would Our next build to take a look at is Build 6608, The boot screen and setup process are identical major exception. The logo has been changed and now version string at the bottom right. Another big bottom right next to the system tray. This would of Windows 7. At first glance, this appears to there are a couple of hidden features that can Microsoft's Bluepill lockdown system. Essentially getting discovered in the event of a leaked build. certain operating system files to enable access and restart our Windows session, you'll notice changes. Now, the application icons will no longer but a new arrow has been added to the right reveals options including pinning the program changes to a couple of the default Windows what we saw in Vista or Windows 7. It's feature built right in. Microsoft Paint is but it still looks more like the Vista version if you look on the left side you can see some new pens that you can use to draw with. The buttons As for the feedback program: while the icon has the program in the start menu. The application to log in using a Windows Live ID. Additionally, 'Windows Health Center" which appears to be Windows 7 Build 6780 is a Milestone about 11 months before Windows 7 would officially more visual changes. The setup wizard finally gets screen. This is the same background that would be of Windows 7. The desktop wallpaper however been changed in this build. It now says "Starting a different animation. The Feedback icon is back is stored in the Control Panel as opposed to previous build, 6780 updates the design of a few like what we saw in the final release of Windows the ribbon interface. The Windows Explorer also a feature introduced with Windows 7. Once again, to some of the hidden features. Interestingly do not fade the background out. It behaves like a that the taskbar has been completely redesigned, There are a few minor differences though: we still and the icons themselves appear to be So those are some of the major changes in 6780. I want to briefly tell you about Skillshare is an online learning community with step in your creative endeavours. Whether up on something you already know, Skillshare has photography, and video editing, just to name I first discovered Skillshare is this one habits. Because the classes are entirely over when to take the lessons. Most classes multiple sections for more convenient viewing. you'll enjoy the lessons free of advertisements Plan, you'll get access to every class on the it costs under $10 per month. But first 1000 people who click the link in the Skillshare Premium. So if you're interested, On January 8th, 2009, just over 4 Microsoft released the first publicly available known as build 7000, was made available provided the general public with a first which would ultimately debut 6 months later in to the final release. The only major difference a betta fish. A little play on words that also So there you have it everybody. That is history of Windows 7 over the years. I hope definitely be sure to give it a like I want to thank you all so much for watching