How many of you would live at a home and cans. What if that same home fed you collected itself with sustainable design techniques? It doesn't sound so bad. Does it? Well today you're going to step inside ship home, and learn all about the methodology house. It's a very simple concept, getting rid of what you don't want. It doesn't need any inputs from make it operate. You control the You control everything about it. This house heats and cools itself. So this is just an encounter with This is one of the two This tube is about 20 foot long and it This makes up our convection So heat is trying to leave but it can't leave in a vacuum. So it has to pull air from out here earth and create that engine So it's our air conditioning underneath these pavers is probably cans that we just smashed So they're buried in tombs So instead of throwing it really turned out really nice. This house is about 50% reused, and about 50% new perfect and we go dumpster diving for them. You know start liberating just scraps that they're throwing away. So this house is a conglomeration We have a tire wall in the back. 10 of us, over 14 days founded 90% compaction full of dirt. These tires are just to rid of might ass well burry them in a house for us. Snow melts off the roof into cisterns of my feet. Here are the which supply the water to the house. This water will feed into these It will be filtered and pressurized Houses today. They require a here's your gas, here's your water sewer. And so we pay for those and we have So that's part of the was I was living in a $1,200 propane bill and electric bill. And it just went on and on and it's just too much money. So I what can we do to lessen this? It was really built for couples to Get out of it, come back to nature, Look at the stars, recharge Everything here is pretty much materials we had. You can see the This was on another They had a bunk of this material So that's what the outside same with the metal The glass here obviously is not free. This glass dimensions are 10 eight inches wide. Other than that, you can see the high operable windows tubes in the back. That hot air is escaping high cause low from outside into the house. And So we have slanted glass in this house, and there's a few reasons And number one is on December a sunny day, the sun is It's going to penetrate And so it provides less reflection off That's number one. Number The summer solstice sun is very high in down and it basically hits these planters, This room has many functions. So this take off your boots, put whatever you're doing for the day. And whatever you got the woods storage This room also acts as a buffer zone. no HVAC whatsoever. There's There's nothing to move up or down. So this is the first buffer zone inside, where humans are. So The greenhouse does provide a buffer zone live on the inside that keeps the So we've got four panes of glass from the panes there. So we were four panes We grow all our own food the planter cells are a We're just getting started takes about a them overgrown and really So there's about 400 gallons of And that water is being supplied drain. So all that water is The dirt in is cleaning it And then the palms are taking it back toilet. So the water that comes into the toilet little dirt in or something. It does It is just coming from the dirt. is the main concentrator We do have insulation underneath and we decided to insulate that and not store share with the earth so We're just being this room room. You can relax, you can So what we have here is a and you can see the black double diamonds to sit because this is where And we decided to put this bar in You can relax out in the cooking and have some This window generally is And it's just on struts This panel right here is for really fun You'll have to wait until dark So right next to the black double This living wall is pretty fun because time. It's on recirculation and we that recirculates it's a pump and runs through the living The thought on this is we'll You could see some This will become more mature as time uh, some Mant and some things like that. For fun things to put in cocktails while living room. You'll notice the countertops countertops John Cross from geo matrix. He makes his own proprietary mortar So it's really funny. He also streamless all the way through. The kitchen is fully stocked. You have freezer range, tons of storage. So the kitchen and living space tons of places to sit and relax. And I do have a television on the My property manager did make this, uh, this piece here with the Now it's the side table for some Here we are. In the bathroom. It's a one recycled glass aggregate countertops. We also did the same with the All the stills in the house are all it has a two head shower Yeah. Just opposite to the bathroom is the What we have going on So you can actually see You can't see him anywhere in the This is also where all the water comes It comes through this It goes through filtration And then it's sent throughout the house. My friend, built this He builds furniture for a and harvest and he makes beautiful Instead of having another piece of movable you'll see just a lot of barn wood Quite frankly, it looks pretty cool. you'll see a lot of barn, wood We also have a bench in here. So we have a side table that we built and relax and read a book or whatever I do have the fancy lights, which And I promised I wouldn't show You can see this impressionistic And so if you don't like it, you It was just too hard to tear out This is lone peak, which is 11,166 feet. It's our local ski The walls underneath all So that's over the tire walls and and clay. And so we And I took a six of us, six So just really organic walls, as opposed I really just want people to understand It's not difficult. It doesn't cost any more or less square foot. You're going to you want to come home, do That will always take care of you. No matter what life for Thanks for watching this week's video. Make sure to like share and subscribe video.