- Some airlines seem to be and yet they are refusing to die. How are they still around, and how did these zombie a time when even and profitable airlines Stay tuned. Commercial aviation is There are times when before a slump in the economy almost brings everything to a halt, and then everything In fact, commercial a bit like a canary in the coal mine for the whole You see, a lot of airline revenue depends on holiday and obviously, when there is cutting down on travel that people do, are among the first to Businesses also cut down when hard times hit, doesn't seem to be happening consistently across all airlines. Instead, some airlines seem to always follow a different pattern. From time to time, you might in the news that is to be in financial trouble, or maybe months later, the same airline's name again Even when the industry these airlines still don't seem So no matter what happens, these companies seem through a kind of parallel universe. So what is it that keeps them from going bankrupt Now, it's not hard to figure out that something like has a lot to do with this, but it turns out to this story than that. I have to make that clear, because if this is a topic that can cause and that's because, to some extent, sentiment and national pride So let's look at and before some I want to make it absolutely clear here that in previous at airlines and their troubles, many of you guys or even all of the air companies Let's start with Alitalia. This is one of Europe's which came into being Back then, it was called and was operating aircraft like the Fiat G.12 and which had both been Over the years, the company's ownership has included various private investors and even its own employees, but one way or another, a majority state-owned But its financial problems Already back in the 1990s, the Italian government had for the airline, Alitalia signed partnerships and they also joined the When KLM and Air France there was a hope at Alitalia that they would also join them, but that never happened. Meanwhile, all the until the early 2000s, to inject mountains of That was completely necessary, because the company Throughout its existence Alitalia only ever recorded and that was back in 1998. Now, that obviously couldn't continue. European and international made cash injections and other types of state support harder which is why the airline In the end, this was into a healthy part and a bad part, which of the old state-owned company. Obviously, that also meant would then become the but that seemed acceptable to everyone since the Italian taxpayers for the original Alitalia anyway. But this wasn't the end of the story. The new private Alitalia group into a different type of entity than its old troubled parent company, but they just continued to post losses. So in 2015, just six years Alitalia had to be reorganised again. Now that was pretty quick, but the next reorganisation because already in 2017, the airline was put which allowed it similar to how a Chapter 11 process would be done in the United States. The following negotiations involved potential investors but things were moving way too slow. A lot of companies offered but finding and approving was proving impossible. There were even forces in to be re-nationalised again, which, of course, Now I am leaving out But the point is that the airline basically remained And when the pandemic hit, to everyone that Alitalia without state support. So they got it. The airline was in May of that same year. Now a lot of people expected and re-privatised again, but instead, a new group emerged called Italia Transporto Aereo or ITA. So why did that happen? Why did they suddenly change name? I mean, Alitalia had, so many times and each time before, they had been able to just Well, as it turns out, Allowing the company to continue under the same name seemed a bit unfair to the European Commission You see, an airline's brand and allowing it to go just seemed unacceptable. Also things like airport in various big airport had a lot of value and the same went for things like its customer Now ITA eventually many of Alitalia's old slots, but the European to get Alitalia's original MilleMiglia customer loyalty programme. At its inception, while the search for a buyer continued. And eventually, the a deal with the Lufthansa group initially for a minority but ultimately, Lufthansa actually Now to be clear here, Alitalia isn't the only airline Other carriers like the followed a very similar and we're going to But why do airlines Why did the airline continue making losses throughout its existence and how could something to continue for this long? Well, to a certain extent, and proof that surviving And speaking about thriving in design, have you noticed that I have sitting on my This is a hover pen from and Novium crafts these of care and ingenuity of the very best in aerospace design. And that's because just like Novium's hoverpans to innovation and My personal favorite is this one, designed at a precise which is a nod This cosmic art piece and the premium models even feature an 18k gold-plated finish with a real meteorite I don't know if you can see it here. Super cool. Anyway, Time Magazine actually recognised as one of the best inventions of 2022 and I think it's quite easy to see why. With Black Friday coming up, Novium are now offering 20% off all hoverpens and if you use the link here below, of course, with the code MENTOUR. All Novium's hoverpens come so if you want to give to that friend that or indeed to yourself, So check out the links and use the code MENTOUR and enjoy free shipping This is a limited-time offer and Novium's best deal of the year, so don't miss out. Thank you, Novium. So to understand how an Alitalia found itself in before 2020, we need to talk a and how their role The term flag carrier is actually Like a lot of it's a seafaring term, but its meaning has remained more or less A flag carrier is a company which may or may but whose role has a national significance for its home country. Even if it doesn't represent a flag-carrier is recognizable and as such, enjoy special privileges, or often both. So what does that mean then? Well, traditionally a flag carrier had the first pick for get the nicest gates, in big terminals, along The features and roles of flag-carriers have evolved over time, and they are definitely not Both countries generally just but for example, it's not just American, that holds this status. Technically, any US is a US flag-carrier, an American flag And that painted flag of seafaring customs by the way. But the point here don't just get perks Many of them also have For some countries, a national airline is a key way of keeping of its people around the globe, so even relatively small have maintained airlines that caters to the transportation needs of that part of the population. So the point is that for a and for many others, maintaining nationally-important routes could take priority over things for any other airline, Having said that though, a lot of national or flag carriers that are profitable and subject to the usual ups and But for many years, '60s and through much of the '70s, these flag carriers didn't have to worry too much In a previous video, I looked in the good old days A lot of people today see pictures of what looked like roomy cabins, passengers using normal from plates on tablecloths, and we rue the days well, civilized. But as I explained, that image is more than a little bit misleading. For one thing, the cabin of as that of a 737 today on each side of the although legroom, I guess, But more importantly for this story, from the point of view of an airline, the typical air passenger is not the typical Basically in terms of fare prices, what passengers would be equivalent and maybe even more than that. And the reason for this was that the airline industry back then was tightly regulated. Ticket prices for specific Airlines had to get permission to fly the routes that they wanted, and for international flights, prices were subject to bilateral agreements between the countries. So, for example, a flight to London Heathrow as much as USD 550, which is closer to And the same tight restrictions were also in place for The reason for these were simply because, in many places, the aviation industry was seen as a strategically This was partly because Countries wanted their people, including their diplomats and politicians, to be able to travel But remember, this was also so big and small countries in maintaining This included their aircraft but also their pool of pilots, all of whom could have if it would come to that. So the tightly-regulated ensured that the airlines even if individual routes But even though that was the case, not all airlines managed to make money. Alitalia, for example, actually wasn't profitable even during that era. Now, it is a little bit difficult to have a full explanation going back that far, but it is fair to say that their airline industry as a way to create and project a picture And again, back then, like a perfectly-justifiable But that actually brings up a question, didn't Alitalia's to say about this, about them constantly Well, actually no. They didn't. Remember, prices were fixed and would be the same, for example, for Alitalia and Pan Am for a and even the number of available seats was tightly regulated. So someone like Pan Am to care at all at a loss or if they were profitable. Because either way, Pan Am themselves would have to offer the In general, since prices were fixed, airlines prefer to compete on things like amenities, airport lounges and And if a country felt that it was worth to keep operating well, then that was their But all of this came to an end when the industry was deregulated. In the United States, changed completely with the And for international flights, the first Open Skies Agreements came into being in 1979, and their purpose, was basically to remove that individual countries After these changes, to secure slots at busy airports and they obviously must abide by the safety and other regulations, but otherwise, they could set their own prices to and whoever they liked and do basically whatever they wanted. Well, sort of. There are still negotiations to fly to and from or to make stops under If you're interested in learning more, you can look up Freedoms of the Air. It's quite fascinating. But the point is that including broader meant that it is no longer practical for an airline to And for a lot of flag carriers who had built up bloated organizations with glitzy headquarters, loads of different aircraft types and have very relaxed based on the guaranteed incomes from a regulated market this became a very harsh Now I really don't or ITA here, because there are many other similar In the United States, true aviation giants who thrived before deregulation couldn't adjust to these new conditions and still remain competitive - End of the runway for Pan American. - Pan Am ceased to exist in 1991 and TWA held on for another decade, trying its own rounds of restructurings and changes in ownership, but ultimately, what then became part of American Airlines. Many other airlines but have chronic inefficiencies that routinely get them SAS, or Scandinavian have made several reorganizations and restructurings throughout interspersed with the by Sweden and Denmark But I actually think that and the latest kind of updates from them look very encouraging. TAP Air Portugal, with a long and troubled history, which saw it getting privatized, nationalized, privatized, nationalized, and they are now due if a buyer can be found. Apparently Lufthansa, AIG and the Air France KLM And that actually brings me to another trend that You see, unlike the airline industry in the United States, which experienced through mergers and Europe's aviation industry but that might be about to change. Of course, the problem Europe isn't one country, and while the European Union has homogenized a lot of the ways that its countries individual countries still make their own decisions including their flag carriers. This makes it much harder for airline mergers to go ahead They still do go ahead, but typically the old airline at least in some form. So how does it actually Well, a small number of big airline groups currently are competing all of the smaller players. One of them is the Lufthansa Group, who also owns AeroLogic, Air Dolomiti, Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, Edelweiss Air, Eurowings, Then there is the Air France-KLM Group, which besides the airlines in its name also includes Martinair, Transavia, Transavia France, plus regionals Air France Hop and KLM Cityhopper. The third big player or AIG, who owns Aer Lingus, Iberia, LEVEL, Vueling and And then we also have the biggest of which is Ryanair, which also includes Buzz, And as it stands right now, Ryanair is actually bigger at least in the number of aircraft. Other European LCCs and Norwegian, and it's quite possible that the LCC market could experience its own consolidation in the future. Although the other groups include airlines that operate as LCCs too. Now I mentioned fleet numbers, because the size of each airline and the network it can support are key to its competitiveness And for an extreme example of this, we can look at Air Malta. This company closed its although it was immediately then replaced by a new company called KM Malta. Before this, the airline to operate just nine aircraft. Now that's a lot of people, and with the country of this size its operation would struggle But for reference, the new company will aim to do the same job So different priorities or in their fleet network in whether old flag carriers will be able to be profitable Like I mentioned earlier, for many years, there was a tendency to keep multiple different and that, obviously, came with extreme costs crew training and standardization. With the deregulation and the fierce competition especially from the who often only this became a burden that was slow Ironically though, surviving to be relatively You see, if their state supporters had found ways to prop them up before, the pandemic was the perfect excuse to keep pushing more money into them, which kept them But those days should be over now. The likelihood is that any airline which can't make money from now on, will either be absorbed or completely disappear. And in my view, that's kind But what do you think? Are there any good reasons to keep zombie airlines operating, and can you think of examples of other airlines around the world that I haven't mentioned that Let me know in the comments below. Now, remember to also check out my sponsor using the link below for some awesome discounts, and just below that link, to the Virtual Boeing 737 course that my friend Ben It includes more than and easy-to-follow instruction, and we are really, really proud of it. Have an absolutely fantastic and I'll see you next time. Bye bye.