Peter Robinson: Uncommon Knowledge. I am Peter at Twitter.com/uncknowledge. Girard is the author of works that have been including The Scapegoat and Things Hidden book, Achever Clausewitz, will be published the end politics, war and apocalypse. In 2005, in France, induction as one of the 40 members Girard's thinking, a close reading of The study of ancient myths. Published in 1890, the ancient world contained a central element, and then resurrected. Christianity, The Golden more such myth...a point to which we will Rene Girard: Thank you. I am very happy to Peter Robinson: Segment one - insights, mimetic Gil Baillie, &quot;Desire as distinguished from of another.&quot; Explain. Rene Girard: Well, if in order to invent desire, animal. Is it human? We do not know. If sometimes But How is it born? I think desire usually else who is desiring and who designates to Peter Robinson: So every college student who they want to fly around in their own jet and ancient world? Rene Girard: Well, to the ancient world it are different but the structure of desire, model and subject - are the same. Peter Robinson: Serpent, Eve and apple. Rene Girard: Serpent in the mimetic theory In other words, the one who directs the subject who know what they are talking about much is the key to bad as well as good behavior, desire. Peter Robinson: So that is why the church Rene Girard: Yes. Peter Robinson: Okay. Now, Gil Baillie once to conflict.&quot; Rene Girard: It leads to conflict, and this a paradox for most people when they first else, you admire that someone else or that As soon as you both desire the same object, only in one copy. Peter Robinson: In ones? Rene Girard: So I should not say copy because Peter Robinson: There is only one Helen of Rene Girard: Yes, there is only one original. real the theatrical situation par excellence, same object, because they designate that object he is imitated, this reinforces his desire. object. As soon as this man saw her he fell are right. Therefore I am more convinced than is my enemy. Peter Robinson: I am chuckling, because as it explains everything in a way. Let me quote the violence and the sacred, &quot;If there is fruit of an anterior crisis.&quot; Explain. Rene Girard: It must be the result of an anterior of desire. This can be regarded as true even can live, and so forth. So you can be sure gathered around the same places because they and so forth. They were united by that same often there was not enough of whatever was to fight. That is why I do not think we should fight with his fellow man even when the people he fights most often with. They do because These things are never in sufficient number. because you admire him. He has seen in the I must follow him more than ever. This works imitated in his desire, he is confirmed in all over the place and is coming from everywhere. Peter Robinson: All right. Segment two - the in the pre-historic world. You are describing the most basic means of resolving conflict. Rene Girard: Yeah, because your question is be resolved at least part of the time for together and so forth. Peter Robinson: So the question is how do Rene Girard: People imitate each other. People imitate each other in their dislikes, I just which is particularly visible and obvious the neighbors of the people concerned to move of the two, and be on his side against the have a third one, a fourth one, and it becomes mimetic. That is the thing you have to see. of friendship, imitation of desire, and imitation be any human society. It should be impossible. Peter Robinson: Total conflict all of the Rene Girard: Total conflict all of the time. a way in which this conflict is automatically Peter Robinson: Resolved? Rene Girard: Resolved. It is when people imitate also what they feel about everything. They If one really feels convinced that one of one, the notion of guilt will appear in the as this happens, it gathers speed and ultimately otherwise gotten rid of. This is what I call, The word scapegoat comes from the Bible, the In most European languages, they say emissary out of the community or who is killed. That one who is more of a culprit than the others. Peter Robinson: And this mechanism is what Not just Western, not just Greek and Roman concentrates. Rene Girard: That is what he does not see. too high, too intelligent, and too superior discovers only archaic or primitive society's Peter Robinson: It is your belief that the of the dying and resurrected king reflects Rene Girard: Sure. Peter Robinson: We have to establish the scope talking about early homo-sapiens, half a million of years and becomes ritualized in myth. Rene Girard: Then finding out the exact time, I say at some point people must have been permanent communities, against not a leader together and it united them. If you look at always the story of a man who was killed by Peter Robinson: Oedipus, mythical kind of discovers that years before, unwittingly, horrified. He blinds himself. Rene Girard: It is the community that discovers Peter Robinson: All right, that is what I how that? Rene Girard: Oedipus is killed, therefore Oedipus has solved the problem. This unity of Oedipus people find that they have no more this man divided us but in order to reconcile the one who is moving us toward some kind we should be afraid of him. He is fundamentally Peter Robinson: All right. Segment three - the of Nazareth. Luke chapter 23 - now when the God saying certainly this was a righteous Rene Girard: You hit the right spot there, cannot say. Myth never sees that the victim Peter Robinson: Oedipus really did kill his Rene Girard: That is right. The first interpreters they saw violence as the main business of real murderer who had been killed. In reality Peter Robinson: But the community believed Rene Girard: The community believed in his repeat the same thought that the god was teaching why they invented sacrifice. Peter Robinson: All right. So when in The and he has as much of a shock on late 19th still that Christianity is nothing but one and resurrected god. Frazier believed it and answer how? Rene Girard: I answer very simply that Frazier between myth and Christianity. In both instances community and who becomes who he is and who What Frazier did not see which is the simplest immediately if they were honest that Christianity the same. It is exactly the same situation. whereas all myths tell you the victim is guilty. character. They are dangerous characters. that are not very easy to understand, but which is not the case of Christ. Simply, Christianity see that it is the first time in the history not falsely with the victim guilty, but with God allows scapegoating to happen, it is because course Christ is very different from any other misunderstood. When people see him, it is He is a mythical hero, but He is innocent. Peter Robinson: Rene, this is the question the theologians, and the theology of the cross. on the cross? How does that affect human understanding? Rene Girard: Because if you read the mythical there is something which is not purely human and we take them for culprits, and so forth. disciples who say no, no, He is not guilty; whatever people may say about it. Therefore which is anthropological before being religious, Peter Robinson: And so Christ's death on the inescapable, and largely hidden cycle of the Rene Girard: Yes. Potentially it does, and that it is the only true religion. It says people take this statement seriously, as you Peter Robinson: Why? You have said at several It is as simple as Christianity is different, it. Rene Girard: They do not want it. You know see the fact that they do not see. The Christians are too committed. Peter Robinson: They are afraid that Christianity Rene Girard: It might be a myth; therefore one. They say the truth about it and there Peter Robinson: All right. Segment four - Rene recent book, Achever Clausewitz, to be published to the End, &quot;History, you might say, is a is failing that test.&quot; Explain that. Rene Girard: Mankind is failing that test of Christianity, which is there. This truth of moving ahead and becoming more widespread, is less and less popular everyday and is accused like a scapegoating process. Peter Robinson: Well, all right. In the contemporary that Christianity is responsible for all kinds mean to demean Christopher's argument as he on and on. You say no; that is not Christianity, Rene Girard: It is an effort to restore if perceive itself as it should. Peter Robinson: To unite by way of a common other. What we see in the religious warfare, of the ancient patterns. Rene Girard: Yes. What we see in human society around victims, but in order to unite solidly are guilty and they are not. In other words, the myth which is read and reads all myth. doing mythology? I answer no, I am showing true anthropology are one and the same thing. Peter Robinson: From Battling to the End again, that Islam has used the Bible that is incorporated an archaic religion. While Christianity eliminates seems to situate itself prior to that rejection. Rene Girard: Yeah, Islam is a big problem It is intelligent enough and religious enough that make it more credible than archaic religion. to realize that it is not the same message same message. Because the peace and the refusal Peter Robinson: Yet you also argue in Battling and alien to the classical Islamic tradition. Rene Girard: Yes. Peter Robinson: Where does it come from and it? Rene Girard: I do not know. Peter Robinson: This is television. Make up Rene Girard: No, I do not want to make up Peter Robinson: No, of course not. Rene Girard: It is too serious a question. of people. Peter Robinson: Of course. Rene Girard: These people are not honest. Christians. We want to convert each other, the Muslims to become Christians, just as Muslim. Peter Robinson: Now in Battling to the End, in a peculiar predicament. The archaic pattern It is impossible to be a genuine pagan. After It has happened, so it no longer works. This It no longer is ritualized in myths that people have the march of technology making the scapegoating Rene Girard: Yes, we might simply say that world for good to make it unable to support very seriously. Today we live in a very strange for me are not the texts which are entitled are at the end of the synoptic gospels, especially Peter Robinson: The reading last Sunday? The for you to know the time. Rene Girard: That is right. In the old days, bomb priests in church always talked about the year, of the liturgical year which was which was a week ago, and the first day of These texts were read and I remember the time me very much in the readings at church. In there. I have been talking about these texts Peter Robinson: Well, final quotation from and scriptures are predicting that mankind with an eschatological theme, literally the the present age? Is this a time of testing? Rene Girard: Well, Luke had the apocalyptic characteristic is the mixture of the human consider that they are not serious scientifically, we are living today. If there is a new hurricane nature helped by man? To be in apocalyptic The time when you no longer know if it is himself who is helping the apocalyptic forces. Peter Robinson: Rene, segment five - your that you have undergone two conversions. The occurred, I am assuming, when reading The was different. Am I correct about that? Rene Girard: Yes, but this is not necessarily with the gospels which convinced me. Then mixture, you know there will be the sea and will fight man and city against city and so I call the doubles. The basic conflictual things are one. Peter Robinson: I am looking to you for a the apocalyptic texts impressed me as well. can remember hearing a country preacher talking bomb predicted in the Book of Revelation. Rene Girard: People want to be scared today Peter Robinson: Paranormal Activities is a Rene Girard: The only fear they refuse is a God there who is in charge and who can reward Peter Robinson: I have got a question here believe that there is any way to turn the Rene Girard: Yes. Behaving like Christians. Peter Robinson: All right. Rene, to conclude, I would like to ask you to be my personal reading of a text. I will give you a couple Luke chapter one, &quot;And the angel came unto The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among at his saying, and the angel said unto her, with God.'&quot; What is that woman doing in the Rene Girard: That very important part is Mary, Christ, and who is the son of God who is the is very important for Protestants and Catholics I do not think it is very important. Peter Robinson: The differences? Rene Girard: The importance is to see that way. History is both human and divine, and God for the right reasons. Peter Robinson: There is no stagecraft here. Rene Girard: There is no melodrama. Peter Robinson: You have a simple girl who Rene Girard: That is right. Peter Robinson: All right. Chapter two, &quot;And out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all up from Galilee unto Judea, into the city was that while they were there that Mary brought swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger, inn.&quot; This is an odd appearance for the God, Rene Girard: True. Well, it is the proof in on the historical PLANE, has very little to on in the world in the second century. Peter Robinson: So we begin with, in effect, Augustus decree, and then the gospel immediately human truth here taking place in a little Rene Girard: Yeah. They are taking place only which has to be discovered. We cannot afford No it is not unimportant. It is the destiny which is hidden from the point of view of Peter Robinson: Final passage, Luke chapter abiding in the field, keeping watch over their cam upon them and the glory of the Lord shone the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill World War. You lived in occupied Paris. The Holocaust, the tens of millions killed by do you make sense of, &quot;and on earth peace, Rene Girard: The first sense to make is that were not full of peace and good intentions. thing the churches do not emphasize enough They would like to be part of an immense fight these texts say is that in their own way, which I think is very important and very hopeful. Peter Robinson: No expectations? All right. read every word of the Girard Reader or every Rene Girard: It is really very unimportant. than mine, and he should believe, and he should God, and that his understanding of reality God. Peter Robinson: Rene Girard, thank you very . Peter Robinson: I am Peter Robinson for Uncommon for joining us. Rene Girard_Dec 1 2009 - 1 -