We've talked a little bit about how to previous episodes of the Brand Gravity deeper with a true expert in this arena. You're listening to I'm your host, psychology driven my guest today is Brendan Cain. You might recognize him from his first to one million followers in 30 days. And then he's recently authored win in a three second world. He has. along with his team at Hookpoint, over a hundred million followers on worked with brands in the past such No big deal. Let's get to the conversation. Brendan, thank you so much for I'm excited to dive into I understand your newest Can you talk about what led Yeah, I think it was so, you know, And, you know, when I started in million people on the platform. And, you know, since the first book and growing and growing till today. There's close to 5 billion So it's, it's more evident Being able to stand out in this new world the globe, being able to pick up a phone, is just more and more important if you is a heard and then be well received. So hook point is kind of a, a larger all mediums, including social media of. How do you really, you know, grab people's your point across to then leverage it for Mm hmm. And as you say, as a brand, we aren't or course creators or copywriters are of Taylor Swift and Rihanna, two of you've worked with in the past, is or a mistake that most people make Yeah, I mean, there's, I would say that the biggest this is a storytelling medium. And if you want to really breakthrough consistently and to become a masterful storyteller. And a masterful storyteller through the So just give you an analogy. I went to film school. I wanted to be a film producer. And what do you do when Well, you sit down and you study You, you understand lighting, is written, the 3x structure, inciting They contributed to it. You watch the best filmmakers, from the best script writers. However, when it comes to social know, so creating a film isn't, it's just don't pick up a camera and then with social media, people can just And yet there's not a lot of does it mean to tell a story? What does it mean to tell a story on in television or film or those things. So I think that that's one of holds people, holds people back. Cause they're not looking at it as thinking to themselves, how do I What is my format? What is my structure? To really carry the message that How do you recommend that clients is there, is there like a recurring again for businesses that you work with? Or are you constantly Yeah, it's a great question. So going back to film basically years has used the same three It's when Steven Spielberg makes that three X structure. He's getting better and Now, with social media, there So there's very specific formats And that's really a big part of the dissect and understand those formats. So, just to kind of give you an example. There is a format that you've call two characters, one light bulb. It's when the same person plays have a conversation with each other typically break down a misconception So it's used for legal, it's used for all of these different subject matters. So what, what we kind of the process process that we use internally is if were interested in, most people would And they generated a So I'm just going to have a conversation that's not really how it happens. It's like saying anybody that uses a going to create an Academy award winner. And we all know. By watching movies, that's not the truth. So the process that we take is analysis of that format. So what that means is. We'll take 10 of the So in that format, the high performers we'll take 10 of the average performers, to a million, and then we'll take the views or less, and then what we do is those high performers, what are the performance drivers are happening in those In the average or the underperformers. So when we do it, we have library of like 150 elements. And these things can be like pacing first three seconds, captions, title cues, environment, those elements. And we typically, when we analyze one to kind of distill it down to three to But what we're really looking at is. What's the difference in the way that in a video that generates 10, 000, not looking at it from a content lens? Because as I mentioned, that format is all the way from law to insurance. So it's not about the content. It's about the contextual nature of it. And that's like, again, When you're dissecting a film, you're, Of like dialogue, lighting, cinematography film or what makes this a poor film. So that's the exercise that we do to successful use of a format and what also So again, you're becoming a masterful I love that as a practical example this platform and of this process. Thank you so much for sharing that. In that detail. That's. Incredibly useful. This is nitpicky, but how do Aren't they kind of by definition Yeah. Interestingly enough, So there's oftentimes oftentimes when single creator to have a control, know, specific format that will generate 20 also generate a hundred thousand views don't kind of like dig into a profile. To kind of look at it, they just think, and this video is 20, 000, 000 views. So subconsciously, they think But if you actually dig into Sometimes we will kind If we want to look at a larger kind of. A creator base, or sometimes like you know, Mark Rober is one of So his underperformers Beast isn't that low because they're at instances, we'll bring in other creators. But oftentimes we're using the same control so that we can really get a But you'd be surprised. I mean, most creators, there's performance using the same format. Yeah. I've definitely noticed that as well haven't broken through yet to feel like How do you recommend that they What did they do first? I mean, I would start and it's a creators or entrepreneurs are And thinking that they're going to find own data, but that's not the case. I mean, if you're stuck in a likely, the answers aren't there. So going back to kind of what we study the specific platform that you a library, making a library of the And those formats will emerge after this, You'll start seeing that structures to creating content. Identify the one that you want to Do that exercise of looking at what's the the average and the low performers. Again, not from a content lens, And I would also recommend that, that. You know, depending on the industry, not going to give you those, those probably underperforming as well. So again, look at social media a vehicle to tell a story. Like when you look at movies, that three drama, comedy, sci fi adventure, but you this is another three act structure movie. It's, it's flexible and it's creativity. So. Like, again, the, the 2 characters, see, like, Erica Kohlberg, that's a in Tick Tock and Instagram, look If you're not a lawyer and you're a so that you can kind of understand A lawyer using a format and Mm hmm. And I love that you gave us an example I feel like a misconception of even entertainment or humor, and I don't So I feel like I struggle Are there certain psychological? Triggers or emotions that seem Yes. And no, I would say it And I like that. You bring up the kind of this notion a prank video or pets to go viral. You look at. A clinical psychologist like Dr. Julie Smith who does visual metaphors, anxiety, using visual metaphors to bring tock, which most people think tick tock is Now one of the core principles, you answer your question, one of the In helping content creators algorithm that's backed by 1. 5 million communication assessments And what that data set shows us is will connect or disengage with content that you're talking about. So the largest subset of the You asked about emotion. So that's 30 percent of the population. They're going to connect. With your story, with your content, based The second largest subset of So for them, it's not about the emotional They want to know information, 20%, the third largest is fun based. So they want to know, is this going Is it going to be exciting? They want to react to it. They want to have fun with it. 10 percent is values and opinions based. So for them is do I trust this content? Do I trust this creator? Do I believe in them? Another 10 percent is imagination based. So these people are very reflective. Like the best analogy I can If you ever read biographies about for hours on end, reflecting on And then the smallest subset of So the best analogy I can give Impossible and Tom Cruise. He is not feeling, he's not He's just running. They go for it. They just move super fast. So when we talk about like really and the language that we use the do we connect with that as many of Because even with feeling based If we only talk feelings and emotion, If you want to see a world class Pixar movie, because Pixar uses If you've seen like the movie Inside the girl's head, there's a different people perceive the world to make enjoy and connect with the content. I love that so much. Oh, fantastic. You mentioned in your deck for hook What do you mean by that? Well, I think it seems We already kind of talked about it, very different and it was unfair really market your message to the station, television station print. It wasn't accessible to It's democratize that, but it's an unfair got 5 billion content creators that are So seemingly it's, it's in some ways media, but it's more unfair in that But the great thing is, is, is that if kind of the storytelling elements and 99. 9 percent of the content doing what we're talking about. So if you start mastering That's where the exponential Like you look at Mr. Beast, he started in his bedroom. He didn't have a huge movie Like he sat there and learned to become a master storyteller. And now he's the biggest And it's not because of luck. And it's not because he just It's because he's mastered the art of So I would say it's unfair because of. The amount of competition, but it's sit down and really learn what it takes that attention across these platforms. Yes. We already mentioned one really practical and start improving this skill set. Do you have other resources, clearly about that but other ways that we can Yeah, I think that to simplify it, studying content, being an active because I'm sure everybody on this consumes content on social media. It doesn't mean you understand what you're vehicle instead of a learning vehicle. But I, I, you know, I can't stress enough, format, dissecting those nuances of it And then, you know, another exercise of that homework and understand it, content with that format is like, put then one of the high performers on the And again, don't pay attention to those kind of performance And I can tell you definitively, will see things that you're missing. You will see a big difference. And I think that that's oftentimes content They've never even thought They've never tried it. And they'll see remarkable We have a team of researchers that like we've done like 140 breakdowns and takes us about two days to do it. So it's not like I'm sitting here that we don't do ourselves. Like, that's the core of kind Yeah, that's incredible. Can you give us an That you've seen work. Well, Yeah. So we mentioned the two We mentioned Dr. Julie Smith, which does visual metaphors. Another kind of underrated one Where basically you approach a interact with them in some way. We've done analysis of 7 A friend of mine named Alex stamp. He's a photographer has reached 20M random strangers in the street and There's another street hairstylist, offering random strangers and You may have heard of Brandon Stanton, His was an image version of it where in the street, take a portrait of So there's so many different applications That work really well, like there's, from named Noah Kagan that does it really well people's doors and ask them how they made you know, stories behind their success. But that's another format that's, that's I've seen a bunch of those and And I think there's another guy in up to people and ask to see their but the interesting thing is you You're seeing the ones If you wanted to do it, you need to really well done that, which are the exactly. And I can't remember if it's there's that gap that happens that. When, when we're just like scrolling vehicle, it can seem really easier. It seems pretty simple to put together. But then once you actually try to do it elevated beyond what your capacity is. So there's actually that practice Once you choose that format and decide to. Get in the sandbox and start creating. I'm not exactly sure how to word this it, but I'm curious for a business that So I have a client in They have a collection There are very specific kind you'll see do really well. How much do you pay attention to what's competition, the direct competition and reaching scan and research of celebrities places where we can find inspiration. Yeah. So there's, there's different So in terms of competition typically We know most of the time that the not to do rather than what to do. Unless you're kind of an influencer know, I would say, you know, most. Most brands in that space and struggle with social media. But then you, but then you also terms of looking at movies, looking at And you have to be very conscious celebrities or big brands. Like sometimes you have clients say, Amazon or they'll point to celebrities, of their success from, you know, the followers or subscribers they have not by social media, meaning like 10 most followed people on Instagram. Well, every movie he's in, they're Promoting the movie and him, he's on things of that nature that doesn't dilute. He's a great talent and things, but I'm going to learn from what he did Same thing with apples. Like, also, if you look at, you know, on marketing, it's like to look at apples. Social accounts for guidance is not the for the audience size that they have. So typically, yes, we But typically, we're looking from perspective of what not to do. And then when we're looking at other sure that we're looking at sources of those accounts or creators or brands media, not from external factors, Yes, thank you for that distinction. That makes a ton of sense. For entrepreneurs that value speed. Is there a way to shortcut get lucky. I mean, we. We, we shortcut success for our clients However, we don't, we don't So it's like, it's purely a mindset thing. You know, we have a lot of clients come that it's titled and they're coming to us That they can do the work on, like, if of social media, and I'm not suggesting But if you want to really break through that, and I don't know, I think that, they get lucky in the beginning, Those people that continue to go is First just ask yourself, are Do you have the right mindset? Are you doing it for the right reasons? And if you just want to move faster way to make it happen, don't think I would focus more probably That's a bit of a quicker and easier way. To to drive kind of conversion So that's kind of what I would maybe the organic path and more. And the direct response Yeah, that makes sense. All right, let's wrap up. Where can people find your book? Who should read the book? And what will they learn? sO both of my books are sold search my name, Brendan Cain. I have, my first book The second one is hook point. And I, I, again, just to what I said, really eager to learn that have the to kind of put in the hard work. I would recommend It's the more recent book and it So even if you want to go down how to position it for that. If they want to just learn more about our team, they can go to hookpoint. com to, we have a video and So I think that those are Amazing. Who, what type of clients do you, Basically we work in every with solopreneurs all the way up to So we're pretty bespoke in terms of based on the, the size of the client. Perfect. Brendan, thank you so much for sharing I learned a lot. And I really appreciate Yeah. Thanks for having me. Thank you so much for listening to I hope you enjoyed this And I would love to hear the follow up. How are you going to implement this? What is the format that you are going to grow faster and to pursue virality? I would love to hear either or send me a DM on Instagram. Thank you so much for listening and