This is an in-depth video about the EGR or Exhaust and evolution of these devices, their operating and diesel engines, their benefits, their drawbacks, By the end of this video you'll have a firm grasp of this engine component and you'll be able to make it should be deleted from your engine or not. So, opinions and telling you what to do, today you can make the decision yourself and I would you tell me what kind of conclusion you have with the history. Why were EGR devices invented As you probably know the reason is emissions. But it's kind of emissions are EGR devices concerned with, Now, nitrogen oxides form whenever we and oxygen. as you know, Earth's atmosphere, in which largely of nitrogen and oxygen which means think is one of the largest sources of nitrogen oxide The temperature of a single lightning bolt is around 28,000 degrees Celsius or around 50,000 deg Fahrenheit That is an insane amount of But the catch is that lightning storms occur high above Earth's surface and most lightning bolts, Instead, they are between two clouds or within a single they never occur continuously in the same place, and they're temporary. They occur at different places at different times Unfortunately, in contrast to where most humans live and traffic also occurs So traffic, which has combustion engines mostly, which is actually the main source of nitrogen oxide Which means that it impacts negatively human which occur high up in the sky. Now, nitrogen react with other elements and form smog and acid to the environment because nitrogen oxides are nitrogen dioxide, NO2. Of these two the dioxides are the ones to all sorts of respiratory health issues and The problem is that the more heat of dioxides within the nitrogen oxide emissions that one of the first major widespread sources vehicles were actually early catalytic A device primarily designed to reduce emissions increased back in the 70s when they were introduced most simply not as accurate as electronic fuel or with more excess fuel in the combustion more excess fuel, more unburned fuel or unburned and that's exactly what a catalytic converter A two-way catalytic converter does two things. to convert harmful carbon monoxide into less unburned fuel reaching the converter it leads to a Some would even glow red hot that's how the catalytic converter itself became a source of Fortunately, manufacturers quickly resolved this and we moved This fact that more pressure and more heat leads to more issue here is the technological advancement of of internal combustion engine development that's pretty much what we've been doing. Increasing heat and pressure Let's observe diesel engines diesel engines had 95% nitric oxides and only 5% But in our pursuit of more performance and more efficiency we turbocharging which is heat and pressure. And so we oxide emissions but we also increased the ratio have somewhere between 15 to 70% dioxides within our constant desire for more performance and more But at the same time, we want to be healthy and trying to reduce emissions from engines And the problem is that this increase to a reduction in emissions, it's like asking an at the same time continuously reducing their and the EGR or exhaust gas because, on paper at least, it aims to So, as the name implies Exhaust Gas comes out of the combustion chamber past the exhaust and we bring it back into the combustion that which naturally comes out - back in. EGR is like eating your own excrement, and although it But the thing here is that nature is far more advanced than for human excrement. It's biodegradable and and it can even help plants grow, well at least the of Taco Bell and Twinkies can help plants grow. engines, once it gets past the turbocharger, to life so we take some of it and we put it back amount of emissions that reaches the atmosphere. to just reduce the volume of exhaust gas coming combustion chamber, and by reducing heat we reduce We reduce heat because exhaust gas doesn't really contain that exhaust gas doesn't have what it takes to Which means that it acts as a buffer. We take the exhaust gas, internal volume of the engine which means that to occupy inside the engine. Because there's an optimal air fuel ratio. Less fuel, less oxygen - a Therefore, less nitrogen oxides. Also, reducing the amount of enough material to react with, to form nitrogen to call it a temporary displacement reduction some of the displacement of the engine with an engine and a smaller engine creates less emissions But the important thing to understand with engine load. It is not active all the time. openings are small engine vacuum is high. One side while the other side is exposed to exhaust gases and high pressure on the other side. This pressure allow exhaust gases to run past it and go back More modern systems are more advanced and they or ECU, which controls the exact position of the EGR throttle position, coolant temperature and any more advanced, more complex systems have an exhaust section to greatly reduce the temperature combustion chamber which helps to to reduce All of this tells us that the system cannot impact peak You don't even have to floor it, anything usually because it is assumed that at high throttle and high power output from the engine. So, no of the cylinder volume gets filled with oxygen and piston generating maximum torque and maximum impact peak power output. It only reduces power cruising conditions. But this is a scenario when anyway so reducing power here is inconsequential. engines because they reduce pumping losses. Pumping because this is when the engine is trying to breathe through a straw. It's pretty hard and the Now, the EGR is as we said a temporary that to achieve an equivalent amount of oxygen throttle more. In other words, we're opening the throttle openings mean reduced pumping losses and not so great with diesels and EGRs where we have engine naturally does not need a throttle valve pedal with our foot we are actually directly into the engine. In other words we are allowing all the engine at all times. In a petrol engine when controlling the amount of air coming the into the engine, the ECU measures this and then injects optimal air - fuel ratio for the desired conditions. have a throttle plate, we have If we have atmospheric pressure vacuum needed to open the EGR valve, because we So what we do in a diesel is that we introduce a of a gasoline engine in order to operate the EGR losses to the diesel, which it naturally didn't Which means that we are reducing them at the expense of engine efficiency. On top of this a diesel engine needs more heat and more pressure to achieve the most to a petrol engine, which means that naturally emissions. When we add an EGR system to a diesel means that we achieve less than optimal combustion. exhaust stream of the diesel is going to contain that soot back into the engine through the intake the engine, and this then can lead to reduced engine wear. Which means that overall in a diesel pretty high price. Well yes, and no. Because what I So issue number one: Adding an EGR to a us to introduce a butterfly valve in the intake that we could create a pressure difference to diesel engines, let's say late 90s, early 2000s. have an electronically controlled EGR, controlled in the intake manifold which means that we do not on a diesel engine. However pretty much valve in the intake manifold. However doesn't create any sort of significant pumping some action, closes when you shut down the engine so that it makes the engine shut down smoother and quicker basically Issue number two: the EGR because it recirculates the soot present in the Again, only partially true, because there is a fundamental engines and it's not the EGR. It's something positive crankcase ventilation. It is a system that relieves excess pressure in the crankcase? Well that's They do an amazing job for most of the they are less and less capable of creating a good rings and they are pressurized and they get into crank case pressure builds more and more and if we would have oil seals blowing up or your oil So what we do is that we relieve the crankcase of this excess pressure and most engines do this by relying either on vacuum present in the turbocharger to help these gases escape back into the engine. Now the problem with this is that the crank case is, as you know, full of oil and oil mist. So these gases, they carry oil. Sticky they do have some sort of oil and water separator back into the crankcase, get actual oil back into none of them are, of course, perfectly efficient. So and they are sticky. This means that the soot that In fact, if we didn't have the PCV system because the soot in the exhaust stream itself is pretty dry. The soot isn't good at sticking to anything and it would probably just deposited onto everything in such an amount if the a good sticking surface. And in fact if you look see that in most cases these deposits are kind seem wet. And this tells you that it's not the soot this is just great at sticking to stuff so now Well, no you can't, but what you can do problems and extend the inter intervals between deposits are, is to install an oil catch can. This is a system, a little can, which is relatively inexpensive, relatively easy to install and you the crank case and the intake manifold or turbo It catches some of the oil. The downside the deposits in the oil catch can and you have to not poured into the sewage drain in front So you have to keep an eye on it, you have to empty to different degrees but none of them are capable inside of your engine. There will still be some. You However an oil catch cannot hurt anything, so you know, not is certainly not an ideal solution but it's not a noticeable way and it is not the primary culprit So we have to ask ourselves where does all the hate for the EGR and all this push for deleting it come from? So many people saying it, and so on and so forth. To understand there are actually four main culprits. And it's and it's the tuning shops, EGR deletion service So yes, I'm basically basically blaming all the stakeholders, When the EGR, when nitrous oxide... um nitrogen and their negative effects measured to manufacturers to reduce nitrogen oxide and legislation which contains basically nothing nitrogen oxide emissions your new vehicle can have doesn't include anything about the reliability of the redundancy, the whatever. Just a number. of course scrambled to create a quick solution and chose the cheapest solution which also included So manufacturers decided to go with EGR and of these systems, they were kind of botched up Most of these early EGR systems, they failed pretty created very much increased servicing costs and it is objectively hard to blame these they simply were pretty bad and most of the bad Since then, these systems have come a long way and cause any issues for the first owner and during as the vehicle ages and they appear for owner 2, 3, 4, the greater the amount of oil vapors. Because the the more everything gets clogged. And not here this brings us to the users. A lot of people because a higher mileage car is cheaper and this more luxurious, better-looking model if a certain number of people choose a vehicle that but not that they can afford to because of all the fuel savings but unfortunately high mileages so that you can get into a fancy offset or far outweighed by the increased increased servicing costs users choose to somehow because, of course, not everybody knows everything if they delete that which causes these then it can't be serviced and more money made worse by the fact that to cut losses and to, fuel and cheapest engine oil to maintain cars and they say &quot;let's just delete it&quot; so I can keep more that we all breathe and this then leads us to the situation that it leads us to with many people deleting these systems Again governments and manufacturers pretty much all the problems that appeared with You remove it, the EGR, you clean it, you put it There isn't much cost in this. You put it NOx emissions, everything works properly. However place in the engine bay that getting to it and this then leads to very high servicing costs. Again, here's the blame because the legislation should because if it were accessible then its not be prompted to delete it as much. And the final delete EGRs and manufacturers of EGR delete They're a major culprit as of position the owners are and so they tell them &quot;Welcome to a video on why EGR valves are the devil EGR valves were invented much the only one I know is emissions which you They offer overgeneralized statements and they promise that they will increase that they will increase engine life simply is not true. The sole removal. just the deletion of the EGR system can not increase power. The power increase comes re-calibration of the engine. The only place where EGR system can just be deleted by getting a doing nothing else, is in very old engines where nowadays, I don't know, there's not many of them. vehicles and when you remove an EGR from these the engine is designed, the programming of the ECU with the EGR. When you remove the EGR you have to then you have to reprogram the fueling, the fuel are now different. There is now a different amount most EGR deletion shops, what they can mess about with fuel peak power a bit and then they can present this because I removed the EGR&quot;. Removing the EGR will not simply because when when the EGR is removed the in the first place. If you remove a properly increase power. This is achieved by the subsequent must be done because you have removed the EGR. system reduces engine life because it increases is and an abrasive so it leads to increased wear inside the engine. To me this really doesn't have a diameter of 10 microns. The smallest engine and most oil filters don't really filter can't hurt the engine, because it's smaller than But even if you don't believe my micron talk, it is clearly evident that the introduction of EGR has not contributed to some massive average designed and properly maintained diesel engines easily and nowadays most engines aren't scrapped it is financially, doesn't make sense to keep So it's a pretty complex topic. There now I'd really like to hear your opinion. Your As always thanks all for watching I'll be seeing