This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Sign up for the CuriosityStream/Nebula bundle with everything we cut for time at CuriosityStream.com/Wendover. Supermarkets are a marvel obscured by banality. Nearly everyone in the developed world uses just don't know a world without supermarkets. We don't know how it was a century ago, storefronts, found every few blocks throughout You'd hand the clerk a list indicating you They'd then gather you apples--assuming Nowadays, however, you are confronted by an grocery stores, displaying a tantalizing, Granny Smiths, Galas, Braeburns, and more--all They sit next to pineapples from Costa Rica, Further on, there's beef from an entirely in an ocean thousands of miles away just days A century ago, you could certainly buy a jar peanut butter, or chunky peanut butter, or it doesn't stop there. You can get the chunky Jif brand, or the chunky store brand, or one of so many more. You have dozens upon dozens of choices of nut butter, dozens of choices of other sandwich of one aisle. Put together, the stability and variety of In big cities and small towns alike, American different product choices which stay in-stock While the concept of the modern supermarket across the entire developed world. The fact that this has become not only normal, of the robustness of the modern global supply easy. For consumers, it's simple--we can get store--but the complexity behind that is This is a typical American supermarket--a Colorado. While this brand is small, it's part of is part of Kroger's--the largest American The entire American supermarket landscape companies holding 45% of the market, which but this market concentration has led to the supply chain. Even independent grocers now tend to rely and supply their shelves, so industry-wide, Now, supermarkets like this are involved with Keeping items in stock is of paramount financial that on the third instance of a desired item alternate store 70% of the time. Being located just five minutes from a Walmart, of a single item, push a customer to a competitor, sales because they decide they like Walmart Therefore, the task is to keep everything as little extra product as possible. So, the way this Glenwood Springs City Market, keeps those 30,000 products continuously on You see, every item in a supermarket is labeled industry-wide, except with some white-label When products arrive at the store, they are From there, it's simple math--as products from the inventory count, and as that count It's a straightforward concept--except world. There's more than one way a product can get damaged, or more. That means there's always a slight disparity and in reality. Inventory management software can account it accurate data, but stores also conduct the actual disparity. This is most important for financial reporting it actually is until it knows how much product the inventory management software how much in the future to make sure re-orders happen Then, there are other factors. For example, if a supermarket runs a sale sell more, so inventory management software process to make sure that it correspondently Then, incoming unseasonably warm weather could are about to increase, while hot chocolate management software can account for external based upon them. Now, some products are simple to keep in stock. Oreos, for example, have a long shelf live multiple production facilities spread out There's plenty of slack and flexibility That's not the case with all foods. Take, for example, grapes. Table grapes are quite difficult to keep in If there's a sudden surge in demand for factory--their global inventory levels are decide whether to add or subtract vines from What's more, grapes are highly seasonal. They don't ripen off the vine, so they have eating--effectively meaning growers have harvested. Of course, grapes are found in grocery stores they're almost always available. What makes that possible is a massive production Now, the easy part of the year for the Glenwood summer. That's because California's central valley, grapes are grown, has its natural harvest That's extended earlier into July by "ultra-early UA, and then later into November by late-season Therefore, there's about a four-month window largely fulfilled by California. Once that ends, though, things get trickier, of global climate patterns. Peru, thanks to its fairly equatorial climate, ends, early-December, and saturates the market seasonal climate, takes over. They essentially act as the southern-hemisphere and late season varieties to stretch their Next, California's Imperial and Coachella fire-up their harvests. These areas have year-round warm weather that time their vineyards specifically to line when California's more seasonal Central once again. While the overall path a given food product is that every item that ends up on the Glenwood here--the distribution center. Now, how distribution centers work on the in pallets of a single product, break them with smaller quantities of everything a store How each distribution center accomplishes Kroger's Aurora facility, operated by a high degree of automation. Trucks arrive from all across North America, different vendors. For example, a truck might arrive from Nabisco's Oreos. These pallets are immediately placed on an what they actually are. With that information, the warehousing software more Oreos in its system in the next three If the answer's later, the pallets just which swaps each onto a fresh storage pallet, automated longer-term storage system in a If one pallet worth of Oreos is needed sooner, which breaks them down to the box level, each product. Those boxes are injected into a network of that places each onto an individual tray. That tray is then automatically stored somewhere a massive vending machine. Sometime in the next three days, some King re-order, indicating that they need Oreos, remove some trays of Oreos from the shelving will take them to a smaller automated shelving acts as interim storage, keeping items no Then, when it comes time to build an actual the trays are removed from the shelving in You see, the system knows the composition it knows what order to build a pallet in. They'll put items for one side of a store the middle of that aisle in the middle, and That way, the stockers in the store can break on the shelves in the most efficient manner. At the distribution center, this palletizing in the end, the system will deliver completed outbound trucks. Finally, once that's all completed, a truck Springs' City Market, where an overnight Now, even as automation is making significant still use a far more manual approach. That process is essentially the same--pallets are built with smaller quantities of each by humans instead of machines. However, both the automated and manual processes Specifically, they present an issue for what's You see, grocery distribution centers are load--it just isn't efficient to take in just aren't that popular. However, unpopular products are actually crucial The reason why they might have dozens upon brand on the bottom shelf is probably at least The City Market in Glenwood Springs might might not. Even if that one consumer can get everything they're going to keep coming back to the that one, niche product that they love. Supermarkets view niche, slow-moving products retention, so they're certainly willing In fact, Walmart experimented with reducing course as it became clear that this ultimately if it simplified their distribution logistics. On the warehouse side, though, if each store of them per week, it's going to take quite their way through a single pallet. In the distribution center, though, a single of a single pallet, regardless of whether Therefore, every additional niche product needed, and increases the overall distance average pallet--in the case of manual warehouses. To mitigate these effects, while still maintaining chains, including Kroger's and H-E-B, have for slow-moving inventory. By setting up these facilities, they can ship products, and stock them without slowing down Of course, this process does still require the alternative--while Kroger's has set east-coast, it has yet to do so in the more their King Soopers and City Market brands. There just isn't enough overall demand in The pure scale at which the supermarket industry supply-chain complexity. When a single facility is responsible for food supply, tiny, incremental efficiency companies. While such commoditization and consolidation many people, ultimately, the average consumer That's what this system provides. Any modern supply chain is molded into what people continue to view the convenience of moment's notice as paramount, this is how food. So, anyone who stayed to this point in the and would enjoy watching as much of them as doesn't feel the same. For any channel, there's a sweet spot of whenever we do anything longer than that, We always have to cut for time, but in order we've started to upload extended cuts of streaming site home to all your favorite educational In addition, their unique business model allows made plenty across HAI and Wendover. Of course, the best way to get access to Nebula Signing up through CuriosityStream's bundle which is a fantastic streaming site that I non-fiction TV shows and documentaries, such shaped our modern economy. If this video, about the supermarket industry, is a fantastic addendum diving deep into how Best of all, signing up for this bundle deal It can all be had, both streaming sites, for year with the current sale at CuriosityStream.com/Wendover.