I'm really excited to share with you some findings that really surprise me about what makes companies what factors actually matter the most I believe that the startup organization is one of the greatest forms If you take a group of people and organize them in a startup, you can unlock human potential You get them to achieve But if the startup why do so many fail? That's what I wanted to find out. I wanted to find out what for startup success. And I wanted to try avoid some of my instincts from so many companies I wanted to know this because I've been starting businesses when I sold candy at the bus stop to high school, when I made to college, when I made loudspeakers. And when I graduated from college, And 20 years ago, and in the last 20 years, many successes, and many big failures. We learned a lot from those failures. So I tried to look across what factors accounted the most for company So I looked at these five. First, the idea. I used to think that I named my company Idealab the &quot;aha!&quot; moment when you first But then over time, I came to think that maybe the team, that mattered even more than the idea. I never thought I'd be quoting but he once said, &quot;Everybody has a plan, until they get And I think that's so true So much about a team's execution is its ability to adapt to getting punched The customer is the true reality. And that's why I came to think that the team maybe Then I started looking Does the company have a very clear path That started rising to the top about maybe what mattered Then I looked at the funding. Sometimes companies received Maybe that's the most important thing? And then of course, Is the idea way too early and Is it early, as in, you're in advance Is it just right? Or is it too late, and there's So I tried to look very carefully across many companies. And I looked across all 100 and 100 non-Idealab companies to try and come up with So first, on these Idealab companies, the top five companies -- Citysearch, CarsDirect, GoTo, those all became billion-dollar successes. And the five companies on the bottom -- Z.com, Insider Pages, MyLife, we all had high hopes for, So I tried to rank across all how I felt those companies scored And then for non-Idealab companies, like Airbnb and Instagram and Uber And some failures: Webvan, Kozmo, Pets.com Flooz and Friendster. The bottom companies had intense funding, they even had business models but they didn't succeed. I tried to look at what factors for success and failure across and the results really surprised me. The number one thing was timing. Timing accounted for 42 percent of the difference Team and execution came in second, and the idea, the differentiability of the idea, that actually came in third. Now, this isn't absolutely definitive, it's not to say that but it very much surprised me that Sometimes it mattered more when The last two, business model and funding, I think business model because you can start out and add one later if your customers And funding, I think as well, if you're underfunded at first especially in today's age, it's very, very easy to get So now let me give you some specific So take a wild success like Airbnb Well, that company was famously because people thought, &quot;No one's going to rent out a space Of course, people proved that wrong. But one of the reasons it succeeded, aside from a good business model, is the timing. That company came out when people really needed extra money, and that maybe helped people overcome their objection to renting out Same thing with Uber. Uber came out, incredible company, great execution, too. But the timing was so perfect for their need to get drivers Drivers were looking for extra money; Some of our early successes, Citysearch, GoTo.com, which we announced was when companies were looking for We thought the idea was so great, but actually, the timing was probably And then some of our failures. We started a company called Z.com, We were so excited about it -- we raised enough money, we even signed incredibly great But broadband penetration It was too hard to watch you had to put codecs in your browser and the company eventually Just two years later, when the codec problem and when broadband penetration YouTube was perfectly timed. Great idea, but unbelievable timing. In fact, YouTube didn't even have It wasn't even certain that But that was beautifully, So what I would say, in summary, is execution definitely matters a lot. The idea matters a lot. But timing might matter even more. And the best way to really assess timing is to really look at whether for what you have to offer them. And to be really, really honest about it, not be in denial about because if you have something you love, but you have to be very, very honest As I said earlier, I think startups can change the world I hope some of these insights can maybe help you and thus make something great that wouldn't have happened otherwise. Thank you very much, (Applause)