Are you ready to make your spreadsheet skills your I'm going to be covering six proven techniques that you want while making the money I'm going to cover the difficulty level as I've personally done most of these, surprise guest who's made these techniques Nomad life as an entrepreneur. Trust me, you some unique perspectives and expertise that So, the first way is a no-brainer: corporate jobs. but trust me, if you can be the Excel wizard in everywhere from Finance to Logistics. Let me share job. So, I first used Excel as an economist then decided that I didn't want to be an economist where I used to live before. Now, I had no job eventually got an in-house productivity consultant was the main tool there, and my Excel was a But I didn't let that stop me. I learned VBA helped my team. And you know what? That made job to work on an Oracle project that doubled my was for a finance consolidation system. Did I know What got me my job were my Excel skills, right? tool at the time was based on VBA. Now, Nowadays, you have other Excel skills that if not more, right?. We have Power Query, we have Power you might have the best degree in the world, but it's Excel isn't just a nice to have; it's your secret you're just starting out or you want to climb that of building up your Excel skills while you're at just learn as you get new challenges. Now, it a two out of five because there's only so Moving on to the second way: consulting or if you're currently in a corporate job, don't a little, help your colleagues out because when guess who they're going to think of when they you. That's exactly how I landed my consulting just take my word for it. I have a super special Microsoft MVP, author, consultant, and a digital and he has some great insights to share, including which we briefly spoke about before So, the concept works like this: when you lower-paying gigs. But fear not! I do very well you take on those small-paying gigs. Next, you begin taking on firm fixed price contracts. but per project. Now, from a small slice of agreement, and this is where it gets fun because I and we meet once a week. We go over their are busier than others, so there are some busy More importantly, we build trust together. The and the whole thing is very lucrative. So it my skills, I make money, and I get to travel. In that I'm telling you, I'm actually going to forward to that book. So how do you rate the It's all about focusing on the clients So the thing you have to remember is that this that scales, right? It's something that you find them, giving them attention, showing them the kind have a really good deal, but it's not easy to four out of five because I think you can actually Alright, on to the third way: online courses. like writing a book and then filming it. And the there's a lot of work there too. But it's a very more people than consulting. Plus, it can be very higher. For me, personally, it was difficult to these recording devices. It was difficult to sell And it was difficult to learn this stuff for me. then the momentum came and it took off. And now including XelPlus.com. So, I was recently talking to someone on LinkedIn the course is the hardest part. But so it's actually the most fun part. In fact, course. It's the marketing. So here's the thing: all about getting your message out there. And if it's very much &quot;set it and forget it.&quot; So how I'd give it a four out of five. Now, for me, down and record, so I give that like a two out of the users, all that stuff makes it a four out I think it's a five out of five. Yeah, For the difficulty bit, for me personally, it figure out that recording bit. Like the whole Way number four: becoming an author. Whenever books on it alongside taking courses. I find the concepts better. Jordan, you've written Well, I love writing, and if you've ever way to establish your authority, build your the corporate environment, and it's also a great I made a lot of mistakes with my first book. I publisher and I thought it would take nine months, same mistakes as me. The essence of good writing know. This is what I did in my last two books, comes out November 7th, and also you can get you have to be an excellent writer, but remember know what to say and give the reader step-by-step and getting your chapters done. A team of editors and it's through that process that you will to really make money on books, you do have to but several books will create a network effect. So out of five, especially if it's your first book, But here's the thing, okay? I love writing, so Next one: Speaking and Workshops. So, once you've built up people will actually pay to listen to you. Isn't that cool? You can run workshops, big events. Talking about events, there's the Global Excel Summit. We're going to be there. be there. Oz is going to be there. Hopefully, to see you. There's going to be more information workshops, what business advice do you have for Now, workshops have the ability to make a lot don't recommend doing workshops with two to three which doesn't make a lot of money and it requires attention. What I do recommend is that if you a fixed amount for a class of around 20 people. to train?&quot; Well, instead of giving a discount for You can expect, for a given workshop, about one give this a difficulty score of about three out of in advance, but the potential is significant, so a good deal of money with only a few days of So platforms like YouTube and blogs can make Right? You can make money from ads or even land with an audience, you can add sponsored segments Now, in terms of difficulty level, I consider get started today. You can take out your phone, In terms of the money-making potential, I rate that much, right? You can't earn that much from but it opens up a lot of opportunities, like all it could be a three out of five depending on how six proven ways to take your Excel skills and make out, what's the advice that you would give them? Well, the best way to get started is to and to go ahead and give them a shot. Now, if you. You can follow me on LinkedIn where your Excel business. And if you're interested me on Instagram where I document my journey. Well, thanks for having me. - Now, if you and yeah, there's been a lot of changes the right place. Just keep watching videos free content out there. If, though, you're looking for our courses on XelPlus have helped Thank you for watching till the end. If this that thumbs up and subscribe for more cool