The second lady lost her memory after drowning Ah ah ah miss You're awake ride Miss Why am I dressed like this? Where is this? Why am I here? I don't remember anything. who is he? Who are they? Why are you wearing ancient clothes? Miss Are you calling me? Miss, don't you know clearly? Where is this? This corpse Now that you are awake Come with me This officer has your involvement in this case Come Yes, yes! Let's go Hey. What are you doing? Who are you? I don't know. Let me go let me go Where are you taking me? What is he doing? Our lady is the second lady of the Confucius Mansion Kong Qiqi, what kind of decency do you have? How did he know my name was Kong Qiqi? No, it's really ancient times Miss, I am not What are you talking about, Second Miss Kong Fu? I am Miss What nonsense are you talking about? The lord is a super blessing I've asked the coachman to notify the family. Disciple to help you get rid of sin Yeah, get away with it. What am I guilty of? What am I guilty of? Are you mistaken? Miss Miss Kong Er, please Why don't these ancients talk about the process at all? So unprofessional Miss wait for me Ugh Came here for no reason It's enough to be a suspect Miss Dog Er If you don't explain Why are you in the water with the dead at the same time? Don't blame this official for not giving your father face I just got here, okay? How would I know? Pardon me? You should also pay attention to evidence when investigating cases, right? On witnesses, have any of you seen it with your own eyes? The deceased was pushed down by me On physical evidence, your forensic doctor No, it should be martial arts Your martial arts Did you find anything related to me at the scene? OK On the Motive for Murder Why should I kill him? OK Just because I'm by a river where anyone can appear Condemn me Too hasty What's more, he's a pregnant woman mess around Why does it look so familiar? Kiki, where's my birthday present? Sorry. Kiki, let's go I really want this book published When I have money What happened to Kiki today is my fault Did you cross the Kinoshi River too? Why does it look so familiar? Qiqi Where's my birthday present? Did you pass through Muzhixi too? prince prince This girl You just said you didn't know the deceased So how do you know the deceased is pregnant? Don't you find that contradictory? OK Hey wait a minute No no I really don't know him. The pregnancy of the deceased was also found unconsciously when I woke up You let your five sit and test it Return to the prince just now, the situation is urgent Wu Ze did not check in detail If the matter is urgent, there should be a quick autopsy. The posture of the corpse falling into the water is different There may be other secrets to this case What would happen if you drowned? you Yes, people will subconsciously flutter if they are drowning This woman was holding her belly in her hands. Prove that the position of the belly is important to her I have no intention of pressing the female corpse He should have been drowning And the soft belly is obviously hard Combine the above two points This woman has a 90% chance of getting pregnant He understands misanthropy That's ridiculous. You know you're pregnant when you touch your belly Is something wrong with Mr. Cai? Step back, it's the prince Just say it Prince, the deceased was a maid in Nian's mansion That being the case Let's find out more Miss Kong, what you say is just your speculation Is it speculation? Can't you just dissect it? Ah! Oops, just cut open your belly and take a look. prince As you said Cut it open Your Highness, is there something wrong with this? Don't worry, all the consequences will be borne by this king Yes Mr. Cai's autopsy is against the rules. Your Highness, look at this Let's see if he's full of nonsense You come I'm here, you come Please help me record it. How could the dignified lady of the prime minister's house want me to instruct her? Postmortem examination of female corpse Length 164 Hair black scalp complete Try there's something in the seam, tweezers match me The right finger seam contains human tissue components Possible struggle with the murderer Take a picture for me There are obvious secretions in the nasal cavity and bilateral external auditory canal Meets the characteristics of drowning death The exact time of death needs to be further confirmed The ancient hairstyles are too annoying Kong girl This is the dead man's handkerchief I'm not that fussy. Miss Kong This is the first time I've seen your dissection It doesn't matter if the prince's body is ruthless Don't Fall Miss Cool 2 Are you all right? OK Strange, did I come here against the current? Why is he here? Could it be that we traveled together? Why can't I remember Damn, is he pretending not to know me on purpose? Did I go against the tide and come here all with him? Forget it, let's clear yourself first This first plate I found it under the fingernails of the female corpse Fresh human skin human meat Prove that he had a fierce struggle with the murderer before his death Like this. I have no scratches on my hands. OK You can clear me of suspicion, right? OK This Kong girl just fainted I am afraid that my body is also weak It seems that this king is overthinking As for this second box I think that's why he's trying so hard to protect his stomach The fetus in the womb has formed It should be at least 4 months old. So what is this? This third plate is the solution I took out of my stomach. It can still be seen It's some undigested plum blossom cakes It should have been eaten two hours before he died Ah, just an hour Okay, what about poetry? I also tested it for you. I really didn't kill people Ninth Prince Cai I won't accompany you Hey Kong girl It's late at night, this king will send you back to the mansion Why did he leave? Who knows if you are a human or a ghost? Don't bother the ninth prince I saw this second lady Kong for the first time today It's really different from the average lady That being the case Just check it out Yes prince It's time for medicine We only found out last night Xiaowan is your mansion's maid identity It spread in Beijing today You are not innocent with him adultery Robbery Finally kill Just to frame a prince who doesn't exist Then I'm afraid of planting it, just by the way There's something else going on here. Then continue to investigate How can that be? The master drinks tea first sir We can't just let this go. He can do such a messy thing in Yanshi How can I get it in the future? Sir, you have to take care of it. These are my ancient parents Affected his own affairs It's us How will the other girls in our Kong family live in the future? Looks like he's going to be reprimanded I don't really care about him anyway Oh, such a scandal happened. You don't care You are enough What kind of decency is noisy and noisy? Do you know wrong What's wrong with me? I'm still the victim Again Didn't the building send someone to tell you why? you Where is my sword ruler? Ok ok ok Come sir The court sent someone to issue a decree Invite the second lady to the West Palace Come back and rest Uh please me This guy? Why is it haunting? OK Miss Kong Er The decree asking you to investigate the case was requested by this king I thank you. OK What is this? The king's recent itinerary What are you doing to me? Anecdotal rumors today Nothing to do with this king Oh. The brochure is very clear This king went to the royal mausoleum to sweep the Virgin Mary six months ago I didn't return to Beijing until two months ago. So what about the fetus? The king doesn't want any misunderstandings Wait a minute. I didn't go out today What anecdote? I don't know. The servant knows The servant knows It's all in the scriptures today The female corpse in Yuyuan belongs to the prince Xianghong is the prince prince The time has come. I'll get you some medicine. Miss, don't go out and wait I really didn't know that. Again Can't you just hand over this thing? What's up? Miss Kong doesn't know Prince to Mu Zhixin Damn you What a pity Weren't you very clever as a child? That's all there is to it in the house Make everyone in Beijing know I see you are more and more alive and back Who are you? Who are you? No, the thangka just now went into the trachea Get up broad daylight What are you doing? Who are you? Did you know you almost got him killed? I am the prince of this dynasty Who are you? So dissolute in broad daylight Damn It's you who should be damned Even a murderer has to give him a chance to defend himself Not to mention being framed You are the elder brother Do not distinguish right from wrong In vain brother Look at him. Almost got killed by you Datang Believe it or not, I'll chop you up! Qin Tianwu won't kill you But if Mu Zhixi Do something that insults the royal majesty I may send you down to accompany him Humph Kinoki, take care of yourself Are you all right? Luo Fang Look at your hair. It's all messed up Mu Zhixi, why are you so bad? You said the prince wouldn't really chop off my head, right? Not really. But not next time. Do you still want a next time? The method you used just now is novel I have never seen He is a first aid solution If you want to know, I will teach you. Put two fingers on the chess piece like this Then make a fist with your left hand Right hand wraps left hand Pull so hard Don't move Sophomore Miss Okay, it's alright. You don't The prince found it. It's the Shen family I'm going to cry Miss Kong Er Just now Can only the two of them do it? Bupleurum skills It's okay to go alone Just treat Cai Luonan as a spectator atmosphere group Sentence How dare you fight back? What about the punishment? Do you know who I am? Or get caught Or get beaten I have never seen such an arrogant person Clean up this man for me Ahhh Wow, the firewood is amazing. Yahhh go up OK You man woman You wait for me. I'll go back and tell my dad i My dad doesn't have to Your father has already sent someone to invite you court tomorrow I hope you can go once. I can also help with an autopsy or something This case What am I going to do? Although the Shen family mentioned by Cai Luonan is not an official trial But it has a lot to do with the court Without actual evidence There's no reason to arrest him What can you do? It can be confirmed that the son of the Shen family is the father of the child Hey, if only I could do a paternity test But here it is. DNA or something is definitely not going to work Pardon me? OK I have a way prince Man caught Not regressing A little better than you Shen Jue, you have an affair with someone kill You are guilty Lord Cai What are you saying? Students don't understand I don't know if there is any evidence for what Lord Cai said If it is to clear the guilt of others Framed my son for no reason Just go to the criminal department I'm not afraid either. Shen Yuanwai doesn't have to be so clamorous If I ask Ren An, the head of the Ministry of Punishment, to come and listen See if it's planted Also let him see how Shen Yuanwai disrupted the court Ignore the emperor If the last autopsy The fragments that came to my mind were my original memories So how did I get here? How do we get back? So it seems Autopsy may be the key Forensic responsibility All for the living Speak for the Dead Don't worry. I will hold an umbrella for you and the children one last time Shen Jue, you mean you don't know the servants of this palace Your Royal Mansion High Court Conference A commoner How do you know the servants in your mansion? There are some handmaidens All day around the prince But the suspect prince is not much older than me Wang Gaofu's buddy has confirmed You have a month in a row Not two days I will go to Gao Bingfu with Xiaowan to buy half a catty of plum blossom cakes You still deny Haha. It was him! But just looking at his looks Be affectionate I judge the affair That's evidentiary sophistry. Someone take it Yes, yes! Are you still going to fight the city? Let go of me! let go Back off The replacement seat has been confirmed. The four fingers of the deceased's right hand Has the killer's dander Then these four-finger scratches How should Mr. Shen explain? Your child is your own flesh and blood. If you have evidence, take it out and talk about it Can't my upper body cat scratch it? Humph cat scratched Your cat is big enough This official asks you where you were on the night of Qianqiu Banquet Report to the lord The night of Qianqiu Banquet My parents and I were waiting for the fireworks in Yunyuan The servants in the house and the people in Yunyuan can testify to me so I wronged Mr. Shen It's just that the people of this king in Yunyuan said that they found something that day Everyone said it was the stuff of Mr. Shen Mr. Shen is here today Might as well help this king identify an ear If it is Mr. Shen Return to the original owner Mr. Shen, you have to look carefully This is your stuff What is this? I don't know you flesh and blood I really don't know him Mr. Shen In my stomach But your own child After all This kid I took it out of my mother's belly with my own hands You have never seen it. But what? But The child is 4 months old. When taking it out Heart is still beating Plop Plop! Plop! Master Shen, do you know The method of blood test It's also effective in the unborn fetus. Do you think we should give it a try? Bupleurum tests the blood of Mr. Shen It wasn't my fault. It wasn't my fault. He pushed his luck. Relying on the sin in the stomach Hire lions to open their mouths Said to make this happen Lord Lang Tan of the Ministry of Punishment knows My marriage to the Tan family It was my father who finally begged for it Damn him! I just accidentally gave him a push He fell into the river It's not my fault that I died after two strokes Don't Blame Me Damn him! Hahaha Xiao Jue has an affair kill The evidence is solid Press me down Sentencing Father save my father Help Me father mother I met a girl today Anorexia and thorns If you can stay by my side for my use The cause of your death Maybe soon we'll find a way to verify it prince Kong Qiqi is indeed the daughter of the second master of the Kong family Since childhood, I grew up with the second master of the Kong family in my hometown Two years ago, I gave Kong phase Just arrived in Beijing As for the autopsy Kong Qiqi did follow the local five Learned for a while The women in the village have a lot of criticism about this Got it, time doesn't wait for me Then let's have a banquet for the ministers this month Father Emperor Hello Lord Dong Humph villain wins Eat eat Just know to eat Isn't this Wan Yuan? Why steal food? you sin butler I don't know why I have to bring you here recently Hey The drowning case in Yunyuan a few days ago Fortunately, Lord Kong's second daughter made a bold move Cases can be solved quickly To have such an excellent daughter Lord Kong can be said to have contributed greatly Oh so it is Kong Qing Return to the official's house This case is the joint efforts of the Ministry of Punishment and the Ninth Prince to solve the disaster The little girl is a fluke Wei Chen dare not bow Stand up and answer Yes, yes, dare not You are a lady Spend all day with corpses Cheng He Style What's wrong with being with corpses? It's really insulting to Sven Insult to Sven You are in charge bamboo green Father Emperor The palace is empty and sinister Now that you are involved Stay with me Take a ride with me Father Emperor Yunyuan case The minister fell in love with the second lady of the Kong family at first sight I hope my father will give me a marriage Yunyuan case The minister fell in love with the second lady of the Kong family at first sight I hope my father will give me a marriage You sit down How can you fall in love with a woman who is so unattainable? Xiao Qiao Jun has no jokes before Are you sure you're talking about Miss Kong Er? I was thinking Miss Kong Er is smart and brave Integrity and kindness Although a woman But also the heart of the world Weak water three thousand Just take a scoop The minister knows that he is not in good health I'm afraid I won't be able to die with my family May the rest of my life be hand in hand with those who please me I hope the father will fulfill it Oh, what are you talking about? Father Emperor Hahahaha Oh, it seems that my little nine has grown up It's about having a family. OK I agree Thank you father It's okay to come to this dynasty for no reason It's also in time for the royal marriage Mu Zhixi, I saved you twice You want to marry me? You are avenging your kindness I don't care. You tell the emperor now that you are a liar Hey, Miss Kong Er Maybe you don't believe it. But I'm telling the truth I can't believe you can catch me if I run away that Oh, dear. I think the girl has a bloody disaster today Hey The poor road has a mahogany sword that can drive disasters and avoid disasters The so-called sword is given to the destined person Not as good as this sword I will give it to the lady at the price of 50 taels. 50 taels. Hmm. I will also send you more. Hehe, I see you look like 50 taels. Your girl I don't see your beard growing well. Do you abide by the precise law of a liar? Get out of here! Hurry up and go to the small Sister get it back Yes Why are you here? Shhh! Oh. So you're running away from home? I helped the girl Miss My lord and madam are looking for you back Go Go back miss Guest officer walk slowly The girl is very smart He was the first to see me through today I, Gu Yue, have identified you as a friend Come have a drink This is the safe place you said Of course! There is no safer place than my Red Bungalow I can believe what you charlatan say Friends are just some tricks Need to mention again Need to mention again Come come drink Wait a minute. You mean you know a lot of tricks Then you are really asking the right person. Jianghu Baixiaosheng Exactly the truth. That being the case Then I'll make you a friend. The second lady was taken away by the owner of the Red Ice Tower Can't get the second lady back Corpse for you Yes Then this Bai Xiaosheng friend Then you must know About some ways out of the capital Leave the capital Hold the household registration Go to the government to run a road camp After that, you can choose the road and waterway. That's not what I'm talking about. What do you mean? Ah! You don't have any money? Or I'll give it to you. I mean, are there any friends who just got along? They know a way to fake recordings. friend It's illegal to make fake recordings. Yes. Hmm. No, no. No. Second Miss, the old lady, please go back to the house None of my business None of my business Who doesn't know the Taoist boss of the Red Ice Tower in Beijing? Kidnapping again Two young people please Is this the safe place you said? i It's auspicious time to welcome the new woman at the beginning Smash bones You are really robbing the folk girl biological Cross Saddle This Second Miss Kong is reluctant This marriage is not easy Yeah. The prince asks to marry a second daughter Does she have room to resist? Bai Xianling The relationship revealed by the autopsy can be said to be a life-and-death relationship. Lord Cai Our prince is getting married today Don't say anything depressing Introduction into the bridal chamber Humph Let you force me I don't understand See what you can do Introduction into the bridal chamber Let you force me I don't move See what you can do Is this bride drinking too much? Why are you motionless like a wooden man? High and low today makes you out-point ugly You see I am this Hahahaha Why did you enter the bridal chamber? OK Ok ok OK Sink to death Otherwise, I, Chen Muzhixi, haven't come back yet. Run away Where is the lady going? Worship and drink Hejin wine It's time for the lady to go to the main hall to welcome guests I'm not going. Whoever loves goes Anyway, it's not my Kong Qiqi's face that I lost You really are not the second lady of the Kong family What nonsense are you talking about? If you are really the second lady of the Kong family How can you not worry? What about the more than 60 people in the Kong family? After all, if you resist the decree and run away from marriage, you have to be beheaded everywhere Mu Zhixi, what is your purpose? What you said the other day A 3-year-old won't believe it, okay? Yunyuan case The minister fell in love with the second lady of the Kong family at first sight I hope my father will give me a marriage So what do you think my purpose is? Of course the picture Mu Zhixin, what are you doing? In fact, this king needs your help with a case But the stakes are high. If I don't marry you back home The king is not at ease Mu Zhixi, did you ask for such a person? Asking for help requires an attitude of asking for help. Isn't it an autopsy? You gave me a white bone I can still play It's bones White bones are white bones You give me the bones now and get them here Let me go after the test This matter still requires some drawings Take it easy But there is one thing this king does not know Why do you want to leave so much? I naturally have my own reasons to tell you Do not understand There are no corpses in your palace I can't find what I want Post-mortem, any corpse will do OK How hard is it? The king said to Cai Luonan You can participate in the cases that will be brought to justice in the future Here it is. Certainly. You also know this king's body But you won't have any thoughts on this king, will you? Welcome Men are around 40 years old. Cause of death Blunt force trauma Minor fracture of the second rib on the left The woman choked in her early 20s strange The last autopsy can recall what happened before the crossing Why are there no new memories this time? Isn't it because of anorexia? Or do you have a request for the corpse? The princess sat and helped me peel the shrimp I'm sick of drowning so many bodies Why are you still doing this? So annoying What are you looking at? Do you have an opinion? No no no no I especially admire girls like you who can eat But what exactly are you looking for in an autopsy? OK Who am I? Where do I come from? Where are we going? I feel like you need to see a doctor. i Walk slowly Oh, right. Li Ting, are you alright if you are taken away? It's okay, I was forced to become a kiss Ah! get married So the last time you ran away was to escape marriage OK What a pity! I was wondering if you had any trouble at home For the sake of our affinity I can still propose marriage Just to save you from fire and water You in return How nice it would be if you would accompany me everywhere Miss Don't get excited Princess The prince is in a hurry Mo Zhixi, how did you find this place? Green Pepper Shen Jiabeizhuang found Shen Wanliang's body Shen Jue's father Miss Don't get excited, don't get excited Princess The prince is in a hurry Mu Zhixi, how did you find this? Shen Wanliang's body was found in Shen Jiabezhuang Shen Jue's father Yes Then what are you waiting for? The king's wife will not have any trouble As for wandering the world If he wants this king to accompany him I don't bother my son Ooh, that's dazzling. Wow This is the weight that the legendary life cannot bear Right? How many people have dreamed of this? Who says it's not? What are the orders of the princess? Mr. Cai, you are really poor Thanks for the compliment You two get down to business Lord Cai You mean Shen Wanliang was crushed to death by this pile of gold? Shen family subordinates explained Shen Wanliang passed on a meal last night I entered the room and never came out There was no movement until this morning People find it strange As soon as you open the door, you will see such a scene Well, you can't see anything from this. Lord Cai Ask your people to mark the location of these gold bricks Then carry the gold brick back to the tiffin with the corpse We proceed to the next step of inspection OK Someone is coming Go back. drive drive drive fry It's hard work these days. How are you? It would be better if there was a harvest What harvest? I can't tell you. Why are you also afraid of drinking medicine? Not afraid They're just habits we picked up when we were kids. drive drive Huh? prince The way back to the city is blocked What's wrong with this guy? What's going on here? I am afraid that the refugees from the Jiangnan flood are here. How could it be so sudden? Jiangnan Luyuan The fold of the flood only dripped yesterday This is probably the first batch of people to flee the disaster adult What's wrong with you Give me something to eat Please give me something to eat Get out of the way and give me something to eat Get out of the way Give me something to eat Get out of the way Hahaha Bupleurum Bupleurum Bupleurum Bupleurum, what's wrong with you? Bupleurum stop Chaihu girl stop Stop your lord Princess, come down The girl Chaihu is injured Let's bandage him first Bupleurum Bupleurum Slow down Bupleurum, you are hurt so badly. It must hurt Bear with me! Take it back for careful review Yes Take it back Remember to rest for a few days when Bupleurum goes back. Then logistics change Yeah, OK. And the prince is too hurt Come on in. I'll fix it for you. Is that okay? Bupleurum, help me get the medicine. Bear with me! Excuse me? I haven't saved many living people A little heavy Bupleurum, you are so cute with a smile The prince caressed momentary gaffe Princess Bupleurum doesn't like to laugh Not next time. You are not frivolous at all If I hadn't listened to you You won't get hurt This injury is nothing to me I thought you were going to save him, my lord Ta Bupleurum The prince is a man after all No matter how thin In this case, it is also more capable of self-protection than women Just him. I thought he would only take a small advantage I was scared today. Are you going back to the government or to the promotion department? I'd like to see it What is behind a Shen Wanliang? This was also found at the scene The old man doesn't know when this silver ingot appeared I'll check it for you. This silver ingot is not recorded Even so You can take it back and let Lord Cai check it carefully. Maybe it has something to do with the murderer Yes Read poetry OK The face of the deceased was purple The possibility of mechanical asphyxia cannot be ruled out According to the corpse surface and the degree of decay of the corpse Combined with the testimony of the housekeeper of the Shen family The preliminary determination of the time of death is yesterday The rest of the injured body has no life response For postmortem injuries Princess, wait a minute. This is the knife for you. Wow, it was done so soon. I refuse Is it the ninth prince? The princess gave me the drawings that day Queen Five Hey Ninth Prince What is this? Back to the words of the ninth prince This is the dissection knife that the princess asked for. The appliances in this picture are very fine workmanship Most of the grass-roots people do not know It's tough. Give it to me. Ah, yeah. That subordinate will retire first Well, then I'll give you a toast Here we go. Wood Zhixi 17 three years ago You said you wanted to be a writer Said we would get married in two years Okay, I've been waiting for you for two years. Did you express that in those two years? And that your parents needed time to accept my career I waited for you for another year What about this year? Do you have any other excuses? Qiqi Let me explain. I hear what you explain Three years and three years. I waited six years for you to propose I think you lied to a ghost. I know if you dislike me for being a forensic doctor Qiqi Mu Zhixi, let's break up Qiqi, listen to my explanation You go elder sister It's all right. Oh, I see. Han Ji-hee, he came with me So does my drowning have anything to do with him? Your Highness, what do you mean? What happened today If I Kiki won't be in danger But if the drug stops The official and the prince will probably die My heart willow will continue to boil Just don't show your feet OK Did the refugees who captured the Lord judge any killers? Not Jiangnan refugees There is a sister in the family She was abducted by Shatai Hanako and ran away Earlier today. Someone told him The princess is the boss behind the scenes Something has happened to that sister Only then Killing with a knife? Go out and carry the car Where is the prince going? Go pick up Qiqi Don't put him in danger again Princess, you are not feeling well OK I took this finger out of Shen Wanliang's throat He has been rich and unkind all his life In the end, he was choked to death by the gold Do you think this is deserved? This silver ingot was found in that pile of gold bricks Wu Zai Lao Wang also said that it was not brought back from the scene I think you can take it back. Take a good look at what's behind it Maybe there is a new discovery. There's something wrong with this finger. Spring Festival 5 years ago Fan Gang once entered the palace with a batch of gems The official order manufacturing company has created a batch of finger wrenches Distributed to several old ministers Your father has one OK That ring But this one is not good enough. Does the lady have a word? Qiqi, what's wrong with you? Are you tired? Don't you touch me Why is Kiki suddenly like this? Did the case encounter a problem? The current air I see. Do you dislike me for being a forensic doctor? Qiqi 3 years and 3 years I've been waiting six years for you to propose After waiting for 6 years, I can't wait for a marriage proposal Been here for only a month Force me to get married just because I'm useful Mu Zhixi is so ridiculous no matter what era Kiki I see you don't look well. Oops go go go I'll take you out to dinner. There's nothing a meal can't fix What happened to Qiqi today? Take a look. It's all your favorite food Ah. Drunk shrimp and vinegar fish Hurry up and eat Gu Yue You never seem to be troubled. If I am troubled Can the trouble be solved? OK What's the use of that trouble Since useless What do you want him to do? If you have something on your mind, you would rather talk to outsiders first Gigi we are so distant I have a friend He has a lover who has been in love for many years But his lover seems to have done something to hurt him. Then he met him again He seems to be treating him well now. Do you think he should forgive him? OK Why not? But he hurt him You said it too He hurt you. This friend is just a possibility Since it is a lover So what's not to say? Maybe your friends think of the past Is it a misunderstanding? Is it really a misunderstanding? Has he also forgotten? go home Mozhixi Will you hurt me? I mean... If one day There won't be a day Home Fork So here's the thing. Those gold bricks were made after Shen Wanliang died Just pressed on the body And the real cause of his death may have been caused by a genus Yu Ren'an's finger choked to death That finger is a gift But all the evidence points to Ren'an Isn't that too obvious? Exactly. Ren An was an important official of the imperial court Don't act rashly when you ask him about the case Hey, there just happened to be a banquet in Tomorrow's Mansion Tiezi was delivered to the mansion a few days ago Then you can accompany me OK But there's one more thing. I found a silver ingot during the autopsy that day But it was found in the gold brick. I checked all the records of the violin division I didn't find this silver nail I'm afraid someone put it in on purpose maybe teapot The silver taels appeared Hey Qiqi can't tell anyone about this. teapot The parents' batch of young masters finally appeared I've changed my name over the years Practice martial arts hard Just to avenge you I live like a tree without a source of water I have nowhere to pay homage even when I miss you mother Soon it will all be soon You wait. Ordinary for the family So many years You're still so reckless you More than 20 lives were lost in my Lu family The lives of 100,000 soldiers at the border All born on this batch of silver Never been realistic for so many years How can you tell me to calm down now? how The person behind this is skilled We wait The enemy is in the dark We are in Ming Sooner or later, the fox's tail will be found What about the princess? This thing Kiki is my wife It's time for her to know about it too After all, investigate The death of the mother concubine cannot be avoided after all Pack up your mood Don't let those people get the hang of it We agreed to investigate Shen Wanliang's case together As a result, no one knows where to go now Hey It's been a month. That's all I can remember Miss, what's so much? Hey Isn't that the newly married princess of the ninth prince? That's him! Too bad it's young I like the body of the ninth prince Oh, don't talk nonsense. Is that one you can say? Want me to say After the accident in Nayunyuan, the princess She spends all day with corpses Oh, dear. Ouch. Too bad. After that day? The princess is no longer alive Oh, dear. Hey When the ladies are here to say small things about this princess Can you imagine one day You may also deal with five seats Madam, get up Nothing. The ladies preside over Zhong Kui at home It must be very cumbersome and complicated Then think about it. I don't want my officials to feel that you are free for daily clearance Only when I have time can I do much better here Furthermore, I have a job Substitute speech predicate Where is it easy to know and learn? The three ladies said and did so It's inevitable to be a little immoral and hopeless Go down soon The ninth prince is right The princess has been thinking twice about us these days. But it's all in the limelight. The five seats of the Criminal Department also said that they were going to the punishment department Ask the princess for advice presumably This is Lord Ren, who has a close relationship with Shen Yuanwai, right? Long time Uh, Xiaguan is occasionally unwell today. Please also ask Prince and Princess Haihan Zhuo Jing will treat the two of you well for the lower official prince Princess, this way please Come on. Bupleurum 77 OK Mrs. Ren, sorry to bother you. prince Yunyuan is on fire Yunyuan is on fire The prince and princess may have casualties A corpse was found in the courtyard Someone bring it up Yes All right. You moved him here? What to do on the spot The brothers are in a hurry to save people, so they Big brother is burning like this Who did you save? This is Qiqi Lord Yun Click Sure enough, he is brave Nice Uncle and wife Meet my uncle When you and I got married Don't be busy recognizing relatives Everyone knows What does marriage mean to you? what? If this is about you I'm afraid uncle doesn't have to worry too much Was it an accident or someone did it on purpose? I don't know. Zeluo Nan can find out the identity of the deceased Because the body was so badly burned Can't tell yet But I've already sent a team Go find out who is the servant in charge tonight But there are many doubts I'm afraid I'll have to bother the princess. OK I'm afraid it's going to be hard tonight, ma'am Thank you for what you said today. It sounded so good Everything I say today is from my heart I went to see the scene You and uncle catch up again Lord Cai, lead the way Come on. Do you know where the scene is? You go Oh, why are you talking so much? The master has cleaned it up It's better to be like last time. I want your dog's life Yes roll Just because you want to check me Li Huai Hill You really can't drink that medicine anymore Uncle is concerned No more drinking Hey The old man has advised you for ten years Now I've figured it out How can I protect my people if they are not in good health? Hahahaha Have you still grown up? Hey, how can your wedding be so extreme? Don't you wait for me to come out of seclusion? I can wait for my uncle to leave customs. But marry Qiqi and go home And I can't wait. Hahaha You always advised me to let go of what happened back then So many years Your days of retreat are getting longer and longer every year I'm not just enlightened Other talents uncle Shen Wanliang was found dead in his home three days ago Someone left us a piece The missing silver nails So do you still want to retreat? The mother came to the door Carry a ball Then tomorrow I will bring Qiqi to disturb you. This is where the body was found Yes, exactly. This scene is too sloppy Madam has finished watching the scene OK I want to see it again. Eye cadaver Someone is coming Hey ma'am This is the ribbon I ordered someone to prepare It's convenient for you to pack your clothes during the autopsy And a pair of gloves Is it still suitable? The location where the body was found smelled of flax oil Where the back of the corpse made contact with the lawn No signs of fire Marks on the surface of the corpse Completely different from being burned alive So the body must have been thrown into the fish yard after death Then set it on fire So the fire in Yunyuan is probably not an accident It's late at night, the princess should rest early Go back to the house today So as not to tire out The prince is really considerate Optimistic about the corpse There is something like the last time Shen Wanliang You know the consequences. Oh. Come on. Uncle, see you tomorrow. You two look at my corpse? Yes The body was found at the scene of the fire The surface of the skin is completely charred What day is it? Today is the day I originally planned to hand in the manuscript Kiki I'm sorry I'm busy submitting Don't be angry. Three years ago, you said you wanted to become a writer Said we would get married in two years Okay, I've been waiting for you for two years. Did you express that in those two years? You also said that your parents needed time to accept my career I waited for you for another year What about this year? Do you have any other excuses? Not an excuse Mechanical I plan to be experienced Cut it out. I don't want to put it off any longer Can't you realize? Ji Ji It's alright, it's alright Gigi, I already called the police. No one else will Are you good at hiding? Why don't you finish this and test the world for yourself? I've been misunderstanding him It turns out that he has always been by my side to protect me I will definitely remind you of this. I'm taking you back with me. prince confidant Princess Go, go, go Qi Qi, why are you suddenly Why suddenly? Not suddenly It's long overdue What the lady means by this is You'll know later I'll remind you more. Remember what You let me down first I'm going for an autopsy Oh. What are you dragging me to do? They are both indecent in broad daylight I must stop them from going today You you Has Mr. Cai seen enough? Ahhh Yes, the prince and princess are already married prince Hey, my brain is not good. I forgot, I forgot. I forgot, I forgot. I have carefully examined the body The face of the corpse showed extensive burns So there's no real evidence. But no charcoal was found in the stomach of the corpse So postmortem burns Yunyuan is not the first crime scene This was confirmed at the scene last night But the organs of the corpse are in a state of widespread failure The possibility of poisoning cannot be ruled out I have recorded the specific situation with 5 seats. He's comparing what kind of poison it is. Is there anything else there? Can prove the identity of the deceased Some of the victims had minor back burns So You can see a black birthmark on your left shoulder probably Hmm so big OK, I'll check it out now Hey wait a minute The victim's back was not burned So there's a residue left I look like I was at a party yesterday The style passed down by Ren'an Ah, you send someone to check the Renfu first. If there is no harvest Go to the big shops in the capital to check What about the two Shen Wen cases? Check it out first Yes Hey You come with me. You protect me You mean? There is a big difference between burning alive and burning after death Yes! So you mean he was burned after he died? Yes, if burned to death People close their eyes because the temperature of the flame is too high Frontal claw-shaped lines will appear at the corners of the eyes Forehead claw pattern Oops, I'll show you. Like Is that so? Hey You just closed your eyes tightly The lines are forehead-claw lines And then if it's the front of the death Less people's entire respiratory system And the digestive system, oh yeah nose Then mouth And then the throat. and Below stomach These are the building blocks of the digestive system. madam All right. It's closed. That no no Should you Oh. Of course! I just don't know that the lady is a goblin Cut and go Go fast OK Uh-huh. Lost to death Why would I close my eyes? Hey Ah Kiki girl The silver dome you found that day It's not just any silver roof. Nineteen years ago, I led 100,000 army to fight the Northern Desert The court's military pay has not arrived yet News from the front Said my lieutenant Lu Heng Colluded with the Emperor Hu's family Swallowed 200,000 two small silver The Holy Spirit ordered severe punishment Therefore The Hu family of the Lu family was beheaded by all the doors Our army was defeated Even Xiaoxi's mother was affected by it Can't afford to be sick It didn't take long to leave. I lost the battle and went back to Beijing to hand over the tiger talisman Received a decree I just found out that the house was raided that day Not on land The tiger family found the trace of the two little silver 200,000 Until today The whereabouts of this little silver are no longer known What do you mean? That mark belongs to that batch of little silver It's just as my uncle said At that time, most of the Hu family's business was taken over by the Shen family Only then did the Shen family, which was later rich There's just one thing my uncle said wrong The death of Concubine Guo He didn't die. There's just one thing my uncle said wrong The death of my mother It's not death, Ann. Hahahaha Oh, dear. Hey, hey. Old Man Yun, I said you can't close it for long, right? Ah hehe Stinky Taoist priest, what are you doing here? I said today's food is more delicious than before So you have a guest here. Girl doll, you're not from here Taoist priest has good eyesight My wife is not from the capital Yes, my ancestral home is Qinzhou Hahahaha Girl doll, you know that's not what I mean If you believe me You come in seven days Old Man Yunyanlin knows where to find me Go, go. Stinky Taoist priest What kind of god are you pretending to be? What the hell? Old Man Yuan can't hide if he hangs hard Hahaha go go hang Does this Taoist priest know something? outrageous The official calm down My father calms down Dignified Minister of Punishment Become a suspect He was exterminated and burned. Is my country already in such a mess? official family The Shen Wanliang case is rather suspicious Mr. Ren had another sudden accident The two cases are rather strange The minister thinks it is urgent A new Minister of Justice should be appointed Combine the two cases Investigate and apprehend the murderer I invite you to be promoted to Minister Lang Tan of the Criminal Department as Minister of the Criminal Department In charge of this case I have my own arrangements for this The general retired Father Emperor Father, your body I can still hold on Qingtian sword over there Erchen is already checking OK That would be fine. Jiangnan floods cannot be ignored But Jiangnan officialdom is complicated So you choose a day to go to Jiangnan Get this done Children's decree What? The bone case you want me to investigate? It's your mother Yes, exactly. When I was young Records in the palace Mother concubine opportunity becomes disease Unfortunately passed away But I checked other sources The year the mother concubine passed away The bedroom suddenly collapsed Then it was sealed. It only started rebuilding five years ago. And I also started from that year The body becomes yellowish brown Perennial decoction Bone testing is not difficult It's just that your mother's concubine is buried in the imperial mausoleum How should we test it? It's not easy But it's not impossible Let me plan carefully All right. Since you have doubts about this Finding the truth is what we need to do Bupleurum just found a clue The maidservant who served his mother had a daughter Still alive Finding him may not be far from the truth But Shiki You are not in good health Is it really just a sudden illness? I can't hide this from you I'm not sick or poisoned It's just that I took a dose of toxic soup that year Looks sick But if you continue to take it The body will only get weaker and weaker Early years were unaware Later, I was worried that the prince would learn that it would not be good for me I didn't stop the medicine that Then your body Don't worry, it's off now. It's okay. prince Someone in the palace has come to preach Uh-huh. Hey Why are there a few more wrinkles? Snow Wolf is still good to me Come to the guest officer, please. See you later Boss, is your business booming? owner Royal Buddha I'd like to see if he can catch it. prince teacher Why did the official family send you to Jiangnan? Jiangnan flood The imperial court will send people there Let the ninth prince go to the old domain of Jiangnan It has been handed twice It's not easy for the official family to bet Today, I sent Lord Jiang of Yushitai again He took up the post of Minister of Criminal Affairs He also directly anointed the ninth prince as a doctor of Yushitai In charge of the Ren'an case I don't know what the official's plan is Holy Will of the Father I naturally dare not speculate Ha ha. That being the case Weichen doesn't say much A letter from the old man to you You take it to Jiangnan If you encounter any trouble in Jiangnan You hand this letter to the governor of Jiangnan He's my student. Will definitely help you Thank you for your concern, teacher prince Hongbin Lou Gu boss is here What is he doing here? I have seen Qiqi I didn't say I was here for you. Hey, I can't pick it up. Hey, this can't be picked up. Hey. Yeah, looking for you? prince The small one didn't stop. OK Don't you hand in your name card when you enter the house? It should have been But today I don't think it's okay Take a good look how Do I still need land for this post? Why is this so? Guess what my last name should have been I can find out what happened back then Content is limited There are also people who are pregnant with fish and meat in recent years Evidence of personal enrichment Except for revenge What else can you ask for? Well, I don't have anything I want. I just want to take them Give it to someone who can make good use of them As for revenge I have no idea Life is alive Except for revenge I think there's a lot more to do. You are open-minded What else can you do? Do your best to obey destiny Like someone missed it He can only be someone else's wife I tell you, Prince Qiqi Something happened to the prince Just their family business owner owner Did you find anything yet? Master Cai, the boss of Hongbin Building, Gu Yue Take it well, yeah prince You know each other? Unfamiliar Oh. Why are there so many people around? No clearance It was the maid of the deceased who was found lost They got scared. It startled everyone in the Red Bin Building As soon as we arrive at the scene Everyone calls it a cat demon Nonsense Lord, look prince This case is bizarre Princess, when can she come? The princess is working hard today Not yet up I have left a message I'm sure he'll be here soon. Who is Gu Yue? I am hum Take down why Why is that? Hello Why are you arresting me? Hello Tap, it just so happens that the prince has an oral order at the Guan family The case caused widespread civil unrest And Yushitai and reminded the company to handle the case together This case must be investigated within three days The boss of Hongbianlou, Gu Yue, is suspected of a major crime Join Shinjian Division pending trial Wang Zhixin, help me say something The prince will retire Hey wait a minute The boss and the princess are old friends Please take care of your ears. Take away Yes yes go Mo Zhixin, hurry up and save me I am innocent What are you looking at? Hey, don't touch my princess Kiki save me Kiki, go No Kiki You are stupid It will be fine. You may rest assured. I have already explained I don't think there's any danger. So what happened? Why is there a murder in the Red Ice Tower? There were so many people. It's been rumored to be evil The palace tried to quell the rumors I can only take Gu Yue first Out-point blood myocardial atrophy But it doesn't look like sudden death Is it really such a coincidence? The last time I saw you was a banquet for the ministers peerless style now Don't worry, if you are murdered I will find the murderer for you You first say corpse He's about five feet long. Age about 22 years old Except for obvious scratches on the face No strange injuries to the body Commencing autopsy Hey Dear, where is my birthday present? Nope. Why not? No, not really. Hahaha, it's me. It's you. Mu Zhixi, our relationship is still very good Hey zhixi zhixi What's up? If you are tired today, rest early. Well, you know the results of the autopsy Cai Luonan is writing the closing document OK But I think it's too coincidental It seems to have been arranged Again There are so many ways to fake sudden death now Well, if only it could be tested test Oh, just run some tests. I just didn't have the right tools. If you are missing something Just like last time I admit to doing it If you really think there is a problem Then I'll let you know. Do not report to the father first I'll check with you again. OK Princess This way, please. This is the house Chu Chu lived in before A few days ago? The teacher released a group of girls to get rid of diseases This Chu Chu aunt is also included And the room empties out. After Mother Wu left Chuchu Has anyone else been in this room? Except someone cleans it every day No one has ever been in this room again However, the Church allows the removal of good luck. The girl took away her personal belongings There's nothing in this room anymore. Does Chu Chu have a grudge with anyone on weekdays? Hey, that's not it. Like us Life is hard How can there be so many resentments that can't be passed? Hey, Chu Chu, this girl is also suffering Born into an official family Father convicted I just entered this workshop People are beautiful And kind. This dance is also practiced seriously Otherwise I will not become the Oroi lady of this workshop Oh. I remember now. I met Chu Chu A Young Master What about these two? It can be regarded as Qin Sue harmony But then this young master was gone Trace Chu Chu He also secretly stuffed a lot of money into him That young master was moved like something Hey Later, Qiu Wei said that he had won Jinshi To marry Chu Chu as his wife I just let her out Otherwise, this oiran lady Even at a certain age We want to stay a few more years. That happens too Oops, I knew this earlier I might as well stay a few more years And that's what happened. That young master has come back Why not? Came here yesterday Sitting in Chu Chu's room for an afternoon Ouch, this is crying That's called a heart-wrenching Didn't you say that except for cleaning on weekdays? Has no one else been here? Ah, I forgot The prince found nothing But there's a closet under the bed Already empty small powder I have checked these things with Bupleurum. This fragrant powder jar and tea jar. It appears to have been fired in the same kiln Looks a little rougher than the rest How about the tea leaves? What's the problem? Well, I can't tell yet. It looks like regular tea leaves. And ordinary peach blossoms Prepared scented tea Bupleurum, get me some hot water Kiki What do you think is wrong with this? This powder has catnip in it. As for this flower tea You have to soak it to know Princess, be careful, it's a little hot If so This is murder Sit down Uh-huh. cruel Dead How could I have forgotten this? Bupleurum, where is the hidden compartment you found this afternoon? OK Empty. Nothing. The thread is broken again Seven seven is fine Let's check again OK This is a matter of privacy I'm not going in I'm going to go catch up with Xiuxiu Since you are here Why haven't you come up yet? Go ahead. Girl doll, here you come Old Taoist What is this? Does it have anything to do with me? This hexagram was written by me two months ago On the fifteenth day of the first lunar month, the blood moon and the celestial phase of the seven stars You should have an impression OK Qin Tianjian also learned of this hexagram The prince is looking for Yin Gua Zhi If you find it How do you deal with it? Is this alien a visionary alien? Or is it a strange person? It doesn't matter. The important thing is how will they break the hexagram? That priest, do you have a way to crack it? There is no way to break this hexagram But there are five elements to help Or solvable You look bad when Xu Lu comes back. What exactly happened? I want to be alone for a while, okay? Five elements help Catastrophe prince How about Qiqi still locking herself in the house? Right. You go to Yunyuan today So what happens? It's been a day. Top gifter's voice is hoarse Didn't call anyone out Do you remember the cases Faye Wong signed? OK Words I hear Shen Wan Liang Tun Jin case Xiaowan falling into the water case Five elements help Five elements help And the burning case Qin Chuchu case From today onwards Don't let the princess guard all cases Especially those related to flowers, plants and civil engineering Yes There is no way to break this hexagram But there are five elements to help Or solvable How am I supposed to get back? I just told you. This hexagram cannot be broken As for where you came from Go back When the time comes You will naturally leave If you are destined to leave Then stay here Even a corpse Better than losing you elder sister I must be crazy Forgive me Kiki Washed away Hahahaha That's great, I don't need to take action. God took him Body found Got it? Too much water potential Our people haven't been found yet. But in that case The prince will not survive Keep looking, I can't find it, I'm worried. The prince is gone Those people in Kyoto are nothing to fear Let him live 19 more years Cheaper for him The world of the Gu family will eventually be in the hands of my Li Huai madam Please stay by my side with peace of mind Could it be that I met that person. I won't let him leave me I am the champion of Xinke You think. I must mix a copy of you in front of the Guan family You'd better mention that you went out and were the champion Since I invited you here today There is solid evidence I have only known you for more than two months And it's been a lifetime Although the acquaintance is not beautiful Knowing marriage but not seeking it There is no life Nothing to do with the son I lost my mother as a child Not close to father and brother Have you by your side Dying in the morning This mother gave you this gift because I am evil to this day Knowing that you can treat me Fuliu What kind of diligent wind dao bone is the stinky Taoist priest pretending to be? Clearly a lie They look exactly the same How could it be two people? Qiqi these I thought you were mad at me! How come? Did you receive the gift? OK It was my mother's favorite You have to keep it for me Well, that's right, dear. The murderer has been found Cai Luonan is interrogating people Do you want to go together Go Let's go Humph Death is imminent. It was him Say How did you murder Qin Chuchu? You are bloody The prince sees the prince Champion Oleander flower prepared poison tea Driving the cat crazy with catnip Then throw everything on evil Good plan How did someone like you get to be the champion? What are you talking about? I don't understand. What pig peach? Peach blossom Peach blossom How could it be poisonous? Lord Cai The champion is also thirsty Look at tea Lest he look back Mixing you with the fold again Qin Chuchu has a crush on you For you to read You made a fortune kill Shameless Give me a drink. Ahhh My eyes. Wu Xin, who do you think Qin Chuchu's father is? Served Yunfei 19 years ago What do you mean, a blind date? Hahahahahahaha This is the book we brought back from Qin Chuchu The other one was found from Xu Huaiqing's house If it is true as Xu Huaiqing said I'm afraid the killer's target that day was not us It was this book. There's got to be something important in there. The death of the mother Maybe. What? What did you say? The prince attacked the victims in Jiangnan Town Washed away by the flood Your Majesty, are you all right? The ninth day of September Yunfei is unwell Spitting black blood at the mouth We found unsolved poison in the food given by the ninth prince September 15 Yunfei's body is declining day by day Medicine and food We are afraid that our lives will not be long Antidote time No clue yet It was so Kiki Something happened in the palace Uncle uncle Cherish him what's wrong Cherish found out the truth about his mother back then Father Emperor Xiaojiu, you are here Come come come Father Xiao Qiao Quickly send someone to find you Prince brother You were the closest to him when you were a child Now his whereabouts are unknown. Imperial brother auspicious people It's gonna be okay. Father and son are invited today I'm here to complain. Hey When is this? What else do you want to sue? Wait until you find the prince Let him call the shots for you The second minister must tell today Hey OK Then tell me what you want to sue for. The son-in-law told Li Huai, the capital of the dynasty, to murder the emperor Two charges against Li Huai for corruption and prostitution The border was plunged into a decade of war People are displaced Three charges against Li Huai for collusion and personal gain Fish people Tell Li Huai beautiful Control autumn you What are you going to do, complain? The son checked the cat a few days ago The demon blackmail case has been found The daughter of the imperial physician Qin who diagnosed the pulse of his mother's concubine Father wants me to read it to you So be it. Some things should be said to you My preference for you back then Attracted Li Huai's fear He's worried that you're threatening the Eastern Palace Your mother's wife is on the edge all day Anything you enter He has to try it himself Li Huai's family has only one ancestral recipe for generations It's called Baiyou Knot. poisoned No matter how small the amount of poison The body will decline day by day To give up It must be this poison mentioned in the handwritten notes of Imperial Doctor Qin It's just that one of the medicinal materials has been lost I didn't expect to get it out for him Yuan and knows that time is running out He stands ready to continue to target you He let the imperial doctor of Qin open a Mahayana wedding hall Use Tang to coax you to take it As for the efficacy of the medicine I see you are in good health today I'm sure you already know After your mother passed away Li Huai is bold Designed to destroy the state of Qin Fake the cause of your mother's death It's a monster Those days are just for enjoying silver at a loss When the war in the north is over I'm still wallowing in the sadness of losing the war I listened to the nonsense they said about the little girl shooting herself I still feel that I have passed away and entered the imperial mausoleum All the face of my Yun family This old man is really confused Wait for me to deal with the chaos left by the previous dynasty After pacifying the frontier It's been a few years So It'll be fine in a few years Can't pursue Can't pursue Li Huai has a deep mind Be careful When I realized it was his doing This half of the court is already his student How to understand You are the emperor Hahaha Emperor This country is not something I can sit on alone Governance Is it as simple as right and wrong, black and white, good and evil? Xiao Qiao You are different from the prince You've been admitting death since you were a child Yes it is Right or wrong is wrong. But you know Li Huaiyi He was taking bribes behind his back. buy and sell official What to do in government affairs There are also many of them If not How can our Mu family's country be so stable? Six statues If so Don't want this country Xiaojiu Xiaojiu Since this country has made you a coward for a lifetime Then I will revolutionize this country See if I can make you a good father Xiaojiu Xiaojiu These years Ignore Hill Qiqi, why are you here? Zhixi, are you alright? That's great. Palace News The prince is missing It will definitely not be peaceful in Jingzhong today I'll ask Chai Hu to take you back to the house first My uncle and I still have some things to discuss Promise me not to think about Anko for now Well, I'll wait for you at home. OK Star please Stop persuading me Do you think your uncle is such a person? The bloodshed in his hands was more than just his little sister The lives of 100,000 border soldiers It's not enough to kill him ten times or a hundred times then Kill them all Yunfei's hairpin Take him to the car Let's go Koppa You are a suspect in a serial poisoning case Yes, thanks to your key evidence man We'll take it back for trial first How could Li Huai have a serial drug theft? Li Huai stole drugs, right? I know this. It was Li Huai who stole the poison Uncle said Sister Baiyou, the poison in your mother's concubine And the poison in Ren'an It's all a poison Why didn't I think of that? I want to see Ren'an's teacher again As long as we can be at Li Hua's house Find that poison as evidence Then all the cases come to light We can convict him Truth is lost Is that the end of the case? You are leaving leave That's what the Taoist said How long are you going to hide from me? What about suffocation? If I go back He will recover his memory Will you come back with me? He never lost his memory How to Restore Memory What's more, he is the enemy How can I go back with you? Mu Zhixi You eavesdrop If I don't eavesdrop How did you know that you were actually your sister? Is to treat me as someone else How could you think You are so kind to me these days It's all cloudy and sunny Sister Gong, I'm not the person you want at all I remember. Shiki doesn't have this mole at the corner of her eye. Really different Lord Bupleurum There are many things in Jingzhou today. I want you to protect the princess I want him to leave the palace half a step Open your mouth Sir, please forgive me. Sir, please forgive me. Please forgive me. Please forgive me, my lord. Please forgive me. Lord, forgive me, forgive me Please forgive me. The ninth prince imprisoned people with officials The wife of the new champion cannot be won by force murder You should seek redress from the Guan family Na yes After the event I will give you the antidote Good master Master Master Master Hahaha Thank you, my lord. Hahaha, thank you, sir. Hahaha, thank you, sir. Heart of Wood Heart of Wood, are you in the end? Muzhixi Mu Zhixi, are you Gu Yue? Gu Yue You're out. Right. I was already released I also invite you to my hoe banquet But your prince is really jealous Only pity him large pillar I'm not here to complain I'm not here to hear your explanation I came to say goodbye. It's time I left. OK Let's go Where are you going? Whatever, it's huge Anywhere is fine. Anyway, I have money Kongixi Hmm I can take you away Do you want to come with me? OK Of course not. Mu Zhixi I'm really worried about the current situation. Whatever you want since you don't come with me Then goodbye to Jianghu And so forth. Gu Yue, my friend He had a new problem. His lover not only didn't hurt him And I saved him. Isn't that nice? He later met someone who treated him well people But this person looks exactly like the person he loves. But they are not the same person. He seemed to be in love with the person who came from behind What do you think he should do? Is this normal? There are no two rivers alike in the world No two people will ever be the same I think your friend is so torn Fear of being deceived by appearances But the eye is fascinated by appearances Heart will not But What if I'm destined to leave him? After all I still owe him a thank you and an apology If you really want to stay You wouldn't want to leave. Qiqi Our life Impossible to be worthy of everyone Ask your heart to ask him I want to stay in the moment Or dwell on the past Remember Follow your heart He will always give the most accurate answer Kiki It's alright, it's alright I came to this place after I was injured I encountered the Yunyuan drowning case as soon as I came The aggressive look at the time So annoying There are also five elements to help Or solvable Five Elements Golden wood water fire soil Drowning and swallowing gold Fire poisoning collapsed bedroom Why didn't I think of that? Gold, wood, water, fire and soil have been collected Why am I still here? It's because the final murderer hasn't been found yet Or is it because I'm thinking about the wooden play here? Maybe it's just not the time. That being the case Sorry wood suffocation I feel that the current suffocation needs me more Bupleurum Bupleurum Princess What are you going to do? What about Shiki Chaihu? I have something to do with him Bupleurum Bupleurum Did you tell me where he went? Princess, I really don't know where the prince has gone I don't care. I sat in the main hall and waited for him I don't eat, drink or sleep I'll be right here waiting for him. Ah! Princess Don't embarrass Miss Lu anymore He really doesn't know where the ninth brother is But I know Isn't he dead? Why is the blood moon in the sky? Qixing Lianzhu Intentionally from the West Ninth Princess, your intention really makes me ugly Lord Li Huai has a life Urgently need to be caught Hurry up hurry up I was indeed in danger in Jiangnan But he didn't die Li Huai sent someone to hunt and kill Just woke up Fortunately, it will count In the past two years, Li Huai has borrowed Shen Wanliang's hands to amass wealth The army he recruited privately It is less than a hundred miles to the capital now In the past two days, the ninth brother and his uncle Has been placed in the capital Most of Yihuai's staff won it all To sell in public Why should I believe you? Shen Wanliang case If I hadn't stolen the silver tripod You are still in trouble It's You Then you and your confidant My ninth brother and I were the two closest brothers Naihara non-boom potential Jiudi calm down And I listen to the slander of remembrance That's why my relationship with my ninth brother is getting farther and farther When you wake up Can't make up for it What does the prince want me to do? Father is critically ill Mr. Zhong was also trapped in the palace by Li Huai I want you to enter the palace But since the palace has been controlled by Li Huai How can I enter the palace? Shen Jue, do you remember? Of course I remember He is the only son raised by Li Huai in the Shen family Convicted for solving the case Then he died on the way to Liu Fang You've ruined his good deeds over and over again I bet he really hates you. Except you No one can celebrate The princess must not Then what can I do when I enter the palace? I know you know a little bit about medicine Li Huai has forbidden Taiyi from reprimanding his father I want you to wish me good health for them. I promise you. I will uproot the Li Huai people and uproot Jieshi If you convince Xiaojiu I will definitely not do anything to him Only then You will not be able to dwell long in this morning how OK Words are unfounded Standing characters as sentences The shawl I saw today Who said that abnormal sounds are the signs of subjugation? For me Your arrival has brought new life to Xiaojiu It's perfect for a carpenter. I actually came by myself It looks like my men are going to make a trip in vain Take away yes Let's go The emperor is in good health Nothing serious. Qiqi You enter the palace like this Does the prince already have a foolproof plan? Oh, dear. Ah! Hahaha Li Shoufu Li Shoufu, you must call the shots for us! Li Shou Fu Li Shou Fu Li Shou Fu Students complain Li Shoufu Learn from Shaozhuang Gang's Tomb Heart force people My wife can't be strong Trying to ruin my eyes And frame me for murder students Take it easy The matter is still in doubt But please believe me The court will definitely handle doubts impartially Li Shoufu, you are also a scholar People who should know me heaviest declaration I can't possibly contribute to him with this If you want to protect the powerful It is also sparse Except for loyalty and patriotism There are also princes and generals I would rather have Students don't worry If the situation is true, my last name is Yuhuan All damn Ninth Prince, what are you doing? Wu Zhixie, how dare you? The ninth prince does not want Don't move. It's been sucked The protege of the Lord of the Capital is going to the palace activity speed Emergency rescue Walk slowly Hurry up Please lord No, no. Chairperson Mu, why am I afraid to die? But you can't kill anyone who reads in this world Those who read all over the world will surely remember your face today Get what you don't get majestic This calf Lord Li is talking nonsense Okay, here we go. The ninth prince pretends to be sick and shows weakness Time doubt is really pernicious The old man has been deceived by you Haihu He was injured. My sister has left me Goodbye Hatred self-inspection order In this world Death is not reportable unfilial Killing noisy It's hard to wait for this I will die to apologize Kiki We will meet again in the next life Look at people hurry up Die soon So far my men have come and gone Han'an Six Years Li Huai colluded with Qian Huangshang Shen Wanli Sell the side army privately and enjoy more than one million silver taels Make our army defeated in the Mobei Dynasty The people at the border were caught in a decade-long war You are still alive Tai'an stone elder sister How can that be? business trip Use the secret passage to find Xiaojiu on a business trip leave dealer Lord Li sent the last general Please take one last look at your country What do you want? OK Li Huai won't kill me today It must be useful to keep me But you want to take the emperor away from here today You have to step over my corpse up Tai'an 2 Nineteen Years Li Huai was ordered to host Qiu Wei to accept bribes Swap Xu Huaiqing's exam papers with outstanding students Make it number one Later, Xu Huaiqing was investigated for the cat demon case Then they killed him teacher What else do you have to say? Presumably those soldiers and horses outside the city Has it been controlled by the prince? Since ancient times, the king has been defeated My Li Huai skills are not as good as others I hate that I was soft-hearted 19 years ago I didn't kill you with my own hands Did you know about Byoj's attack? He can make people decline bit by bit Hahaha The skin festers little by little Hahahahaha What a pity! It's a pity that Yunfei's beautiful face quit Pardon me? What are you still doing? Do you think Li Huai really dares to kill you? Hurry up and help suffocation Are you choking? Ah! Ah! Pardon me? I dare to kill i Just like your father You dare not kill me Stop Dare not kill me Just like your father You dare not kill me I'm glad you're okay. You are still there Hahaha I thought you were some kind of Shura killing god It turned out to be just a heart Only women's waste confidant Take me home I want you two to be buried with the old man. prince prince grandpa confidant aunt confidant confidant You hold on Grandpa Grandpa Grandpa Anybody here? Aunt Yue Help! Aunt Yue You hold on Aunt Yue Sorry. I can't blame you. You can go back. Go back to where you belong I'm not leaving I don't cherish you Don't leave me I'm not leaving Cherish it. cherish I'm not leaving grandpa grandpa That person? Don't call me confidant I mean it. I'm not like this sincere Sister is good to go to Xianggong husband elder sister Uh-huh. cherish cherish Come and save the imperial doctor Xixi Kiki, you're awake elder sister You're finally awake. Sorry. Come to the family, let me Lie down What's your name? Is there anything uncomfortable about the gap period? Nurse Cai OK, then you have a good rest. Call me if you have anything Okay, thank you. Have a good rest! Qi Qi How long have I been sleeping on these? Two months. Sorry. If I hadn't left together for a while You wouldn't be hurt so badly But it's alright now The bad guys have been caught Sorry. It was my bad day. Thank you for your pleasure. Oh, right. You see What is this? This is my novel based on the two of us. Just received the sample two months ago I wanted to share it with you as soon as possible. But never thought So what's the story? Let me tell you something. What about this story? A sick prince He was framed by bad guys since he was a child And then, to avenge himself? He met a big family lady who can do an autopsy They uprooted Li Huai all the way Except for the hidden dangers of the imperial court So this is about One follows the old five Five talented women who have studied for a few days With someone who doesn't hurt The love story of the prince of love Did they end up together? I'm modeled after our names, of course. So they will definitely be together Just like us. cherish OK What's up? Was it raining when I woke up? No, Kiki. You remember wrong. It might be in a dream Kiki There's a saying I've been waiting for six years I think it's time. Qiqi Will you marry me? Qiqi