The Electric State is a beautiful nightmare. I... don't know how else to describe it. I could say it's an artbook by the brilliant version of the United States in the late 90s. This is true. I could say it's a story where a young woman landscape littered with the skeletons of terrifying This is also true. I could say it's a poignant warning of how This, I believe, is true as well. Yet none of these descriptions tells the whole. So, for this entry into the archive, I'll worldbuilding. And like my video on Stalenhag's other the artbook using the links in the description. Now, let's enter the world of The Electric The Electric State begins in 1997, with a venturing across the Mojave Desert -- moving on the western coast. Much of The Electric State is centered around turning the narrative into a kind of apocalyptic This strange duo forms the emotional core where everything is increasingly mechanical... On the side of a dusty road in the Mojave an empty sedan. The car's owners are now dried husks still of a family vaction gone horribly awry. Virtual reality headsets called neurocasters cause of their death. Manufactured by the company Sentre, Neurocasters These face-swallowing devices were designed household item as people lost themselves within The side effects weren't noticed until too More and more consumers never took their headsets their mouths sometimes still moving as if "- starts behind the eyes, goes behind the My head is just getting tighter -" The concept nightmare is mirrored in David Cronenberg's being released in 1999 feels painfully modern. Like The Electric State, eXistenZ is an unsettling human beings, where virtual reality offers And in the Electric State, the Neurocasters The exact cause of the Neurocasters' malfunction so many brains through the headsets, an 'Intercerebral an agenda of its own... "-I feel clear headed again-" Finding the girl and robot witness the surreal wreckage In one image, huge yellow ducks rise from bodies riddled with impacts from large-caliber It seems the region was once some kind of abandoned. Elsewhere off the highway, a giant metal mascot expression frozen in a permanent smile despite How the animatronic reached its resting place the image makes it seem like this machine In a dusty town emptying of people, another of tangled wires. There's a fascinating incongruity between surroundings -- a fundamental incompatibility Yet at the same time, there is something undeniably machines, that seem to appear more and more closer to their destination. In these illustrations, Stalenhag proves machines just abnormal enough to instill uneasiness. Where these machines came from and what they by venturing deeper into The Electric State... "- Wherever you are this summer could be loom large over The Electric State. In one snapshot from this post-apocalyptic and throws up a peace sign in bitterly amusing In another, a giant heart-shaped mascot rusts solutions for people with terminal conditions. The macabre juxtaposition between the upbeat motif throughout Stalenhag's illustrations that pretended 'everything was fine' until On a passing billboard, a slogan proudly proclaims wars -- showing that warfare is seen as just And given the devastation the Neurocasters that this advertisement would have been taken Where the electrical grid still functions, the homes of residential neighborhoods. These literal monuments to suffocating commensalism eye for atmospheric lighting making the scene Cityscapes like this echo the visuals of sci-fi is similarly awash with neon light from skyscraper-sized There's undeniable familiarity to these The invasive billboards of The Electric State not by much. Across the U.S., how many landscapes are clogged How many major cities overload the senses The United States that The Electric State lens -- where the specifics are distorted close to reality. One piece of media that can help us better to reality is the sci-fi pixel art game Norco. Released by indie developer Raw Fury in 2022, place in an alternate version of Norco, Louisiana have created a land of desolation and alienation. The urban sprawl of real-world Norco has been experienced catastrophic explosions, events with. There are moments where the pixel art fades the line between fiction and reality. Like The Electric State, Norco's vision long-lost acquaintance you come to recognize "- This advanced technology helps to diagnose But to effectively relieve the minor pain the robot continue their journey, they spot -- the red glow of their neurocasters like These silent masses seem to no longer have drones piloted by a mysterious intelligence. In the mists of the western coast, they work Glimpses of these monstrous mechanical beings In one piece, a smiling face peers out from Something about the image pulls you in, making looks like. Later in The Electric State, we get a better A titanic drone looms over a parking lot, old advertisement animatronic. Bundles of cables pour from its head like to the ground. A crowd of Neurocaster-controlled onlookers and into a parked minivan -- witnesses to While these monsters of wire and steel are of these pieces evoke. Like wandering into the forest and coming these beings can instill a kind of dark wonder The term 'Eldritch' comes to mind, a word incomprehensible. In this regard, these beings are reminiscent glimpsed in films like The Mist, which instill Stalenhag also experiments with light and portraits that feel like you're looking The blurred light imbues these otherwise unsettling you back to time spent looking out the car through droplets of rain. In scenes like these, it almost seems like will fade away. A massive Neurocaster network tower casts making this region feel all the more like Yet perhaps even more notably, this section County, California -- the same region as Damned. Directed by John Carpenter, the film tells creepier haircuts, who are connected to each A remake of a 1960 movie of the same name, to a collective intelligence -- a concept State... "- Your family can take advantage of this mechanical infection in The Electric State Yellow service robots waddle across the roads massive cable rollers. These machines spread a dark network of signal more and more regions to the Neurocaster hivemind. In the snowy mountains, massive spherical network -- their sides still plastered with Millions of interconnected minds bounce around them trapped in a digital fantasy melting While Neurocasters never flooded the consumer network of interconnectivity that became massively "- You'll learn how the net can entertain children with their school work, and make the Neurocaster network reflect each other ways... and leading to serious unforeseen When viewed through the lens of the internet, uncomfortably familiar -- with stories of oblivion and becoming dependent on a digital "Why, you can even plan a family adventure At various points in The Electric State, the one would on any normal road trip. Like real world liminal spaces, these near-empty quality that is hard to place. There's a sense of time crawling to a stop mechanical monsters to be unnerving. Yet these narrative breaks also give the storyline understanding of the protagonists. The more you follow the girl and the robot their characters. Stalenhag does an outstanding job using minimal the bond the two have -- as the world around In one of the most memorable points of the war memorial. A hillside ravaged by bombs emerges from the Two gargantuan military vessels simply called hill -- a class of machines that played a State. While in the present of The Electric State carcasses, these machines once spearheaded In a nameless war, these unmanned vessels out over seven years. Though the drone technology was praised for damage was catastrophic -- not just in terms technological consequences. For the drones were controlled by pilots wearing the invention of the Neurocaster technology it was supposed to protect. It's difficult to convey the sheer power which feel so enormous they become part of mountains. In one image, a drone seems to have been converted flag and string of laundry hung from its side. Once trophies of victory, these colossal wrecks A painful reminder that though the nation price of losing everything to a mechanical There is another narrative hidden within The Running parallel to the story of the girl a mysterious agent who seems to be headed While their true mission doesn't come to State, the agent is a source of constant tension, our protagonists. In the last stretch of The Electric State, childhood suburb that has fallen to ruin. In this final section, less and less text scenes speaking for themselves. On the side of the road, two figures shamble the warm light of a distant window. At this point of The Electric State, it's Neurocasters, or entirely mechanical beings. Bird-like drones called Scrappers pick through with bags and bundles of cables. These artificial vultures work tirelessly themselves, or perhaps for something else... Above the overgrown lawns of the decaying their dominion over this region absolute. In these suburbs where families once lived, fetuses. There's a sense in these images that the and nothing will ever be the same... Yet The Electric State is more than just a Even at its darkest moments, there is always compassion kept alive by its two lead characters. And everything builds to a resolution that in tune with the themes Stalenhag had established While I don't think I should give way all pages, if you'd like to know more, you can In the end, The Electric State is quite literally as it is the destination. What at first seems like an almost alien world familiar, as the parallels between The Electric and more apparent. Like Simon Stalenhag's other most well-known poignant book that pulls you deeper into its stays with you long after the pages end. If you find this world as interesting as I links below to get the full story, and follow As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.