What is Bitcoin mining? Does it mean I can generate Is it still profitable to Well, stick around... Here on Bitcoin Whiteboard Tuesday, we'll answer these questions and more. Bitcoin was created as to the banking system. This means that the system from one account to the other without any central authority. With a central authority, transfering money is easy: Just tell the bank you want to remove and add it to someone else's account. In this case, the bank has all the power, since the bank is the only one that holds the balances of But how do you create a system How do you give someone without giving them so much power that they will become corrupt Well the rules of the Bitcoin system, solves this in a very creative way "Who Wants to Be a Banker?" In short, anyone who wants to participate in known as the blockchain, can do so. All you need to do is guess a random number that solves Sounds simple, right? Of course this guessing The more powerful of a computer you have, the more guesses you can make per second, thus increasing your chances of If you managed to guess right - you earn Bitcoins and get to write on the blockchain. Here's a more detailed breakdown of Once your mining computer your mining program determines will be grouped together into Compiling this block as you have now become who gets to update known as the blockchain. The block you've created, is sent to the whole network Each computer that validates your solution updates its copy of with the transactions that As you can imagine, since mining is based on for each block, and be granted the right to Of course the miners with will succeed more often, but due to the laws of it is highly unlikely that After this stage is complete, the system generates and rewards them to you as a compensation for the time and energy Additionally, you get paid that were attached to the transactions So that's Bitcoin mining in a nutshell. It's called mining that this process helps "mine" But if you think about it, the transaction verification process. So the name is a bit misleading, since the main goal of mining in a decentralized manner. Now that you know what Bitcoin mining is you might be thinking So where do I sign up?" Satoshi Nakamoto, who invented Bitcoin, crafted the rules for mining in a way that the harder it is to guess the answer So the difficulty of the mining process is actually self adjusting to the network possesses. If more miners join, If many of them drop off, And this is known as So why on earth did Satoshi do this? Well, he wanted to create to the system. In a sense, this was done to The mining difficulty is set a new block will be added Now remember, this is on average. We can have two blocks being added and then wait an hour for the next block. In the long run this will As you can imagine, this type of self adjusting mechanism to get the most efficient as soon as possible. When Bitcoin first started out In fact, Satoshi, and his friend Hal Finney mining Bitcoin back at the time Using your CPU, meaning your Central Processing Unit was enough for mining Bitcoin back in 2009 As Bitcoin started to catch on people looked for Gradually people moved to GPU mining. A GPU or Graphics Processing Unit is a special component added to computers GPUs were originally intended to allow gamers to run computer games Because of their architecture they became popular and around 2011 people also started For reference, the mining power of Another evolution came later on FPGA is a piece of hardware in order to run a set of calculations. They are just like a GPU, The downside is that which is why they weren't Finally, around 2013 the ASIC miner. ASIC stands for and these were pieces of hardware manufactured solely for Unlike GPUs, CPUs and FPGAs Their function was ASIC miners are the current Some early ASIC miners but they became obsolete rather quickly. Even though they started out in 2013 the technology quickly evolved and new more powerful miners After about 3 years of we've finally reach a technological barrier Since 2016 the pace at which new miners Now that you know what miners are, let's talk a bit about mining pools. Assuming you're just entering you're up against some heavy competition. Even if you buy the best you are still at a huge disadvantage compared to professional That's why mining pools came to existence. The idea is simple - miners group together to form a "pool". Meaning they combine their mining power If the pool manages to the reward is spread out depending on how much mining power This way even small miners and have a chance of earning Bitcoin, even though they get Today there are over a dozen large pools that compete for the chance to mine Bitcoin I know you might be thinking, "ok, all this theory stuff is very nice, but is Bitcoin mining Well, the short answer is the correct (and long) answer is When calculating there are a lot of things Let's go over them quickly A Hash is the mathematical problem The Hash Rate refers to or how many guesses Hash rate can be measured in Giga hash per second (GH/s), Terra hash per second (TH/s) and even Peta hash per second (PH/s). This refers to when a miner finds the solution. This number started at and is halved every 210,000 blocks, The current number of Bitcoins The last block halving and the next one will be in 2020. This is a number that represents at a certain moment according to the amount of mining power How many dollars You'll need to find out in order to calculate profitability. This can usually be found The reason this is important whether for powering up the miner as these machines can get really hot. Each miner consumes You'll need to find out the exact before calculating profitability. This can be found easily with or through this list. Power consumption is measured in Watts. If you're mining through a mining pool, then the pool will take for rendering their service. Since no one knows what Bitcoin's price it's hard to predict if Bitcoin mining If you are planning to convert to any other currency, this variable will have significant impact And finally #8 - This is probably the most important The idea is that since the rate of miners joining the network, neither can anyone predict in 6 weeks, 6 months In fact, in all the time Bitcoin has existed profitability has dropped even at times when the price The last two factors are the reason that no one will ever be able to give &quot;is Bitcoin mining profitable?&quot; Once you have all of these variables at hand you can insert them into and get an estimate of how much Bitcoin If you can't get a positive result it probably means you don't have the right conditions I assume by now you pretty much know But you may have also heard about like cloud mining, mobile mining Cloud mining means that but rather rent computing power and get paid according to At first this sounds like since you don't have to go through buying expensive equipment, storing it, However, when you do the math it seems that none of these Those that do seem profitable are usually scams that don't they are just elaborate Ponzi schemes that will end up running away As a general rule of thumb I would suggest to avoid If you still want to pursue this path make sure to make the right calculations Some mobile apps While in theory this is possible, due to the low processing power phones have you will probably end up draining and make a very small The apps that allow this, and distribute earnings according to Remember, mining is possible it's just not worth the electricity since the slower the computer, the smaller the chances of actually Finally, somewhere around 2017 Simply put, web mining so to speak, their visitors' CPU This means that a website owner can in order to gain profits. However, since mining Bitcoins most of the sites that utilize web mining As of the release of this video over 20 thousand sites The concept of web mining From the site's visitors' perspective, someone is using their computer In extreme cases this can also From the site owner's perspective, web mining has become without the need for placing annoying ads. Also, the site owner can control he wants to control in order to make sure he's not To conclude this episode of here are 3 Questions I get asked a lot: The first is While there's been a lot of criticism that Bitcoin mining employs worldwide there are various arguments For starters, you could say that Bitcoin mining ultimately than the current banking system. If you take into account banks, servers, and all other components of you'll find out that than Bitcoin mining. Especially if you think about and pollution caused by these institutions. Also, you could say Bitcoin mining is actually optimizing power consumption Many companies are moving to countries that have This means that is actually becoming more efficient. There are a lot of additional arguments but I'll leave you with these two for now. The second question I usually get is "Can't Google start mining Bitcoin Yes it can, but it won't do it much good. The reason is that Google's servers aren't fit for solving the same way that ASICs are. For reference, if Google harnesses all of its servers and abandons all other business operations, it will account for around of the total mining power And finally, Should I mine Bitcoins? Well now that you've about you should be able to answer Keep in mind that sometimes there might be in order to produce For example, depending on Bitcoin's price it might be more profitable to just Another option would be which can still be mined with GPUs This concludes this week's episode of Hopefully now you have a better the process of updating the ledger incentivized with to those who participate. You may still have some questions. If so, just leave them And if you're watching and enjoy what you've seen, don't forget to hit the like button. Then make sure to subscribe Thanks for joining me For 99Bitcoins.com, and I'll see you... in a bit.