Farah Diba Pahlavi was the first and only Empress ruled Iran for twenty years, living a life of in Iran, and Farah and her family had to leave her life has been very different. In this of the last Empress and Emperor of Iran and In Iran, women are currently required including the freedom to sing recalling that things were different Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the last Shah of Iran, empress. He placed a large golden crown on her history that a woman was recognized as This was groundbreaking, demonstrating that women Farah Pahlavi became a role model for all women in work, wear what they wanted, and even Farah Diba wasn't of royal origin. How to become the wife of the Shah and Farah Diba was born in 1938 in Tehran, Sohrab Diba and his wife, Farideh Ghotbi. Iranian Armed Forces and a graduate of the French served as the Persian Ambassador to the in the late 19th century. Farah's father's her mother's family belonged to Gilak origin, from Farah Diba came from a prominent family in surroundings that could be described as idyllic. Iranian capital. However, tragedy struck when she away. This was a devastating loss for the entire she wrote about her close bond with her father, The family's finances were in a and they were forced to move from Tehran to a shared apartment with Before his death, Sohrab had spent considerable for the French language and culture, which were also played an integral role in shaping a sense of independence and forward-thinking Despite the cultural norms of the time, Farideh Moreover, unlike many other Farideh did not arrange for Diba to be ambitions and supported her dream of studying Diba could realize her aspirations and Despite coming from a high-class family, Farah this young girl meet the Shah of Iran, the most Farah Diba has been a highly energetic During her youth, she was an athlete and basketball team. After completing she developed a keen interest in architecture. Speciale d'Architecture in Paris, where she had As you already know, Farah Diba's family faced However, like many other Iranian students, she was to study abroad. Occasionally, the Shah would Iranian students were studying. During one in 1959, Farah Diba was officially introduced A 21-year-old student impressed the Shah of and good family background. However, there Shah was 40 years old and had been married twice had considerably more life experience. Mohammad He married for the first time at the age this marriage was arranged for political Middle East. Although the couple had a daughter, of genuine affection. The Shah was unfaithful women. Princess Fawzia could not bear the After his divorce, Mohammad Reza openly women. He regularly visited nightclubs where he was romantically linked to several as a monarch, he needed male heirs At 32, he married again, this time out of love. an Iranian-German woman and the only to West Germany. Unfortunately, the wife was unable to conceive. The Shah needed and at the age 40, he set out to find several children. He chose a 21-year-old Mohammad Reza later recalled their first meeting: woman I had been waiting for so long, During the summer of 1959, Fahra returned The Shah of Iran continued to and by November of the same year, the "When I first returned home from being a the Shah told me, 'When you are queen, you of course, but I could not imagine This engagement was rushed due to the pressure heirs. At the time, he only had one daughter to inherit the throne. As a result, the at risk. That's why the Shah's wedding was hastily On December 20, 1959, Mohammad Reza, who was their age differences, the couple's wedding and stunningly beautiful bride. At the same man in a military uniform with light gray but it was the strongest and longest-lasting proved to be the love of his life, and they This wedding was popular not only in Iran but widely covered the celebration. Farah Diba, the The bride looked absolutely stunning in her gown was a masterpiece designed by the legendary House of Dior. The dress was made of the finest and precious stones. The bride's Noor-ol-Ain that shone brightly on her head, adding to her with diamonds and gold, which sparkled in Farah Diba smiled happily looking like a radiant bride. But how Following her marriage, Farah Pahlavi received perform various royal duties. However, as was heirs despite any potential involvement in initially anticipated that Farah would her position as queen was closely Consequently, everyone eagerly awaited year of marriage, Farah gave birth to which was seen as a great blessing. Three years was born. With the birth of the Crown Prince, activities and official engagements. Initially, as was common with other royal consorts. However, state affairs and contributed significantly She dedicated much of her time to of various education and healthcare institutions. team of 40 people who handled various requests Imperial Government and supported 24 educational, humanitarian role made her extremely popular. Soon in the history of Persia to become empress. Farah Pahlavi witnessed a historical It was the coronation of her husband as the Tehran in 1967. At that time, the Shah had but he had chosen to wait until that moment to deserve it until then and that there was no The coronation ceremony was grand, with thousands of guests worldwide attending. wearing a golden robe and a bejeweled crown. and the people of Iran were invited The title of Emperor or King of Kings in Iranian history. The Shah was and he had the power to make decisions on symbol of his authority, and it marked the During the coronation of a new emperor, a also decided to crown his wife, Farah Pahlavi, Farah became the first empress in 2,500 a new constitutional amendment was passed, if the Shah were to pass away while To fulfill this new duty, a new crown had to &amp; Arpels created an incredible crown and a parure Empress Farah's coronation crown 36 spinels and rubies, 105 The ensemble included a necklace and a pair The necklace was embellished with an engraved four pear-shaped pearls, 11 cushion-cut yellow During the coronation, a new carriage in blue and The ceremony was held in the Grand Hall of the the Qajar Dynasty and was absolutely stunning. and looked magnificent. The Shah put the crown on crown on his wife's head, demonstrating that equally with men. Wearing a long robe and and no one doubted that the Shah had After the coronation, Farah continued to engage in social work. But was this family as Despite her heavy workload, Farah her marriage to the Shah of Iran. In 1966, Ali Reza Pahlavi. Four years later, in 1970, was born. The couple's family life seemed perfect who had dated many women in his youth, had finally However, according to numerous eyewitnesses, the couple's family life was far from the couple had their share of problems. Farah's responsibilities as a ruler made it difficult Abbas Milani, an Iranian-American historian, the Shah of Iran, often had extramarital affairs. right-hand man, regularly arranged outings Alam's diary also mentions that if women from the local women for Shah's pleasure. According to for women and needed intimacy several times a due to his wife's involvement in public affairs always available to him. Therefore, the Shah In 1973, Farah Pahlavi discovered that her When the news broke, the Shah's close initially took the blame for the scandal. However, shifted the blame to Hoveyda, stating that he had the Shah himself believed that the affair was Soviet KGB was behind it. Nonetheless, according to acknowledge that it was the Shah's own Despite their challenges, the Shah of Iran and the outside world. After her husband's him and remained loyal to him. Leaving her not just because of her love for him but Farah was at the peak of her popularity. She the heir to the throne but also an important for her beauty, elegance, and intelligence and Farah could not leave her title, country, or job. husband's infidelity. Interestingly, she mentioned her husband. In her memoirs, she refers to that their love endured many trials and was built In summary, the Shah and Farah's marriage was Anyway, they were a remarkable couple time. Farah was not merely the spouse figure on the global stage. What makes her Fahra, who had a busy schedule, with her duties as a mother and wife. her children were her top priority. She negative aspects of her public life and provide Empress Farah of Iran significantly promoted the arts in the 1960s and '70s. She supported her children, and people with disabilities. She made Farah Pahlavi Foundation to support museums, art established landmark events to celebrate culture. She also worked to promote women's Empress Farah made history during down many barriers. She was the first the first woman to hold this title in any woman to donate blood in a Muslim country Empress Farah traveled to various countries, Farah is widely recognized for her outstanding the Tehran Museum of Modern Art. She dedicated and as a result, the museum acquired around 150 collection is now valued at approximately Numerous sources speak of Farah and her husband's great achievements in developing Iran. why did a revolution occur in the country, Despite many successes, Emperor Muhammad particularly by the conservative him a puppet of the United States As a result, the Shah and his family fearing assassination attempts. Local residents lavish lifestyle and grand celebrations. commemorating 2,500 years of the Persian Iran's rich history while also highlighting The celebration was massive, attracting elite successive editions of the Guinness Book of most extravagant official banquet in modern an overwhelming amount at the time. worthwhile investment to establish business Although Iran's economy was progressing, struggled with poverty. They were frustrated with who spent millions of dollars on Shah had a particular interest in cars he had amassed one of the world's largest Additionally, the Shah maintained one of the corruption was rampant in the country, and the dollars, some of which were kept outside Iran. lifestyle of the royal family further intensified One of the reasons behind the loss of power with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in 1974. for several years. In 1978, he started appearing condition. The Shah had to cancel several trips medications that had severe side effects, As a result, the Shah became damaging his image of an all-powerful emperor. take power into their own hands. Therefore, which the Shah could not stop since he even had Empress Farah repeatedly suggested to her husband, treatment and appoint her as regent. She believed Pahlavi. However, Mohammad Reza vetoed the idea Iran and leaving a woman in charge. He also On January 16, 1979, after months of persistent Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the situation Shah's family was compelled to leave the official statement was that the family hoping the king's temporary "Officially, we were flying overseas impression the king wished to himself?" writes Farah Pahlavi in her At the time, Shah Reza's eldest son the USA to become a fighter pilot. On the was only eight years old and had the In January 1979, Iran was plagued by which led to Pahlavi and her husband fleeing the of her life coping with the loss and exile that Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini returned to Iran establishing an Islamic republic, its repressive policies and So, the Pahlavi family began their life in exile the first few years. They first received a warm followed by an invitation from King Hassan Mohammad Reza lived in Paradise Mexico, near Mexico City. Mohammad Reza also cancer treatment. Throughout this time, extradition of the deposed Shah and his wife to During a difficult period in his life, Shah's was in Panama. Mohammad Reza was on the brink the letters he received from his former second for him and wished to see him one last time her but could not, as his wife, Queen Farah, believe that Princess Soraya was the true Queen Farah remained the most loyal and devoted both the happiest and most challenging moments. "They said that if I could kill my own husband Iran. And if that doesn't prove what kind of Queen Farah remained devoted to her husband, the a year and a half after his exile, at the age of funeral was held in Cairo, Egypt, and was attended different countries. The funeral was a lavish The entire Pahlavi family suffered a and where are they today? Farah Pahlavi became a widow at the age of 42. easily started a new relationship, and never remarried. She always remembered as the happiest of her life. After her husband's President Anwar Sadat gave her and her family after President Sadat's assassination just with her children. President Ronald Reagan invited Farah Pahlavi, the widow of the last Shah of town of Williamstown, Massachusetts. hoping to have a peaceful life after the turmoil a beautiful house in Greenwich, Connecticut, The Pahlavi family left most of their wealth their exile. Shah Muhammad Reza had a significant it is known that during his stay in the Bahamas, $425 million. Before his death, the Shah left his Farah. It is safe to assume that the money them for the rest of their lives. Farah Pahlavi and her children received a good The Shah's children grew up in material comfort, life abroad was particularly difficult for lot of stress leaving their homeland and struggled the Shah's youngest daughter, Leila Pahlavi, and his youngest son, Ali Reza Pahlavi, died After the death of her youngest to purchase a smaller residence in Potomac, D.C. Farah did this to stay closer to her who were living in the United Farah divides her time between Washington, D.C., The loss of two children was a devastating leader of the Iranian opposition abroad. Despite events in her country, where many people, feel a sense of nostalgia for the Pahlavi &quot;I've had a very interesting life, the same time,&quot; she said in her online chat. she expressed her strong love greatest wish for the country is to be free. bitterness in my heart, and I always say that Farah Pahlavi, the former queen of Iran, international community. Despite the political Farah has continued to play an active role awareness about the plight of women in Iran. events in different parts of the world, where she tireless efforts to support various charitable admiration and respect. However, her unwavering Farah has been a vocal advocate for gender about the repressive conditions that Iranian women right to live with dignity and that no one should Farah encourages Iranian women to stand up for She believes that women's voices must be heard to participate in all aspects of society. Despite change is possible and that one day, women in Iran Farah Pahlavi fled Iran in 1979 and has never death penalty there. It is improbable that country. However, she hopes there will be hope she is not there to witness it, her children