Oh, here. First text from Freddy. &quot;You're hotter than the bottom of my laptop.&quot; How about the peach one? Oh! Oh yeah. I love the peach one, Oh, because of these? Oh, no. Still it might be tight in the rear. Oh because of this? Oh, no, this isn't real. Okay, we might be in business now. [laughs] Can't be that funny. It's like, &quot;Hey there, sweet potato. I'm onto so stop showing up with my burger. [laughs] You're hilarious. You should be president. Eliza, may I speak with you Charlie, hold my calls. Uh, no one called. Good, let's keep it that way. I can't control who calls the office. Charlie, I beg. Okay, okay. Well, good job pretending to listen and why don't I hold on to your phone Sure, let me just... All yours. You could have just said, &quot;No.&quot; Team, what do we do when we see a sick child We run. Amen. For the past five years, we run in the KinderKare cares for kinders 10k. What do you think you were that guy from business affairs? What- Guys like it when you laugh at their jokes President... like that guy could be president. You're right. Oh god, you're so smart. You Well I do consider myself fair and impartial. Eliza, what's with the getup? Oh, I was just trying to change my image and Oh. Have a kid, no one ever call you booty Just kidding. But seriously it is a deterrent. Not to everyone. [softly] But to a lot of people. I'm man poison. Can you lick your lips and What? I want to add a photo of you to my can you unbutton your shirt, and just like slowly lick your lips like... Are you on drugs? No, but if I were, would that He gave back the cookie. Now who gives back a cookie Your co-worker returns from maternity leave. Anxious to share with you a who happens to look... like this! And you reply...? [high-pitched, Oh god. If you're serious, stop responding when he texts, &quot;'Sup?&quot; If he wants to know 'sup, he can stop by Totes. -ally. Why do people favorite when they can retweet? Nut up, dude. [sighs] And this is you with a Absolutely, sir. This is the That's fascinating. What if I said, &quot;You weren't good enough for I would firmly disagree and ask if there's Terrence. Don't you see? You're not The way verbal abuse passes right you're customer service! So, what are you gonna do to celebrate? I'm not entirely sure. Julia and I may grab dinner. Other than that, I was Maybe finish this documentary on tiny houses. - Who wronged you? Why are you the way you are? There he is! Birthday boy! Got you something. Don't try to dodge it. Don't you dare try and dodge it. [knocking on door] Popo shut us down? Eliza, you cannot have a child at- This isn't a wild party. Nope, but it 'grammed like one, right? It really did. You two really appear Oh, we were... until you got here. Okay, DJ Pre-K. But it's almost midnight and I'm guessing This one goes out to my man. [Korean song: Crayon Pop - Bar Bar Bar] Oh, I get it. You think cause I'm Korean, Oh my god. I'm gonna hang myself by the Come dusk on the horse trail, having already You know, Henry, I don't the difference You don't? Listen, I was wondering if you Free to do what? Get a drink with me, maybe. There's something He's free. What do you want to show me? Um, I thought we could after work and drive together. Yes, very. Great. It's gonna be a late night, She's been acting so weird lately. Henry, are you out of your mind? She wants you. Okay, don't... Don't do that. Your sister has called Your sister? You told me your family Well somebody must have Tom Hanks'd and given her this number, [thud] Ahh! Oh dear god! I thought you were a possum. I think it's more likely Plus one? Yes I'm sorry, but- I'm nobody's plus one. I'm V.I.P., bitches. &quot;Bitches&quot;? - Morning, Charmonique. What? I can tell you're wearing a breakaway suit. Can you keep a secret- Please don't tell me you're How did you know that? Do you have any idea how many flash mobs What? Half of the flash mobs on the internet and it better not be for Nancy I'm gonna be stuck with him forever. Mhmm. Oh my god. I feel sick. Now the only thing left to hope for Morning, Eliza. If you want to go by unnoticed, you might want to try a milder fragrance [Gasps] You noticed! As the entire left wing of this office. How was the &quot;Women in Pharma&quot; Mm... It was really... - Informative. And, like... empowering. And it totally felt like I was - Huh. and &quot;how brave,&quot; you know? And... and also? Equal pay! [laughs] Because beside every - I know you didn't go. I'm serious, Eliza. He asked me Who's in there? I'm not at liberty to- - Is it Saperstein? - Joan? - Is it Larry? Linda? Is it Obama? [pause] No Is it Tobey Maguire? No - Is it Tobey Maguire, you little bitch? I'm a self-assured woman. Of course I I myself have throngs of male cohorts. So you don't mind if I- Throngs? What, what, what constitutes a throng? Oh, more than a gaggle, less than a swarm. The year was several years ago. This a good idea and I want Here's another one I had. The blorkel. Mm, yeah. - So you can breathe under the covers, right? The blorkel. Oh, yeah. Exactly. - If I were you, I'd Shark Tank that one. I'll give you a hundred dollars for You know what's happening right now? We're riffing. It's a riff. We're like a corporate jazz trio [imitating the double bass] Henry, on the hi-hat. [imitating drums] Eliza Dooley on the French horn. I don't know what we're doing here. Solo. It's your solo. [singing] I don't really know Mr. Saperstein, there's a- [acapella jazz band stops] I'm sorry I didn't realize you were riffing. Thank you, Joan. [acapella band continues] We're gonna have to set you up Where would you say the bulk [hesitates] Just, like... Uh, Zappos, Amazon, Gilt... All right Net-a-Porter, Style Pop, Shopbop... Eliza [knock on door] It's open. Oh my god. I really wish you wouldn't do that. There is nothing anyone can take that hasn't Except for this Crystal Pepsi I can't believe what I'm seeing. I know, right? It only costs eighty dollars. Eighty- eighty dollars?! All right, we're Piperlime, Fab.com, Justfab.com... Good god. Sephora, Bluefly as well as and that procedure where little fish We may never know Dude, nut up. I'm sorry, but I was conditioning my body - Oh, come on gramps. Change it up. Yeah, it'll keep you young, you know. He's right. I surprise my body because my body knows me so- Boo! Aha! Push ups! Ha ha. My body Bam! Jokes on you, quads. Thought you're Nope. 20 reps, 4 sets. Let's go. - Come on, Henry. Get it! Bonjour, bloodstream! Let's get you Did you just speak French Oui. &quot;Oui&quot;? What? Usually these retreats are Sam's way of vetting upper level executives who are, Um, I'm always being eyed. In fact, I would argue there is no one in this For example, when I exit First of all, that's not what I Try not to look. - Eliza. [Playing &quot;We Dem Boyz&quot; Oh my god. Not looking. Still not looking. Hold up! Hold up! Hold up! Nobody says &quot;Hold up&quot; that All right. P-please stop. You're gonna Fine...fine. [music stops] Looked! Ha ha!