In the South of Russia, towers a mighty mountain range... the Greater Caucasus. The influence of these mountains From the glaciers of the main ridge a wilderness Craggy, shrouded in legend Europe's mountain worlds The Pyrenees, the Alps, traverse the continent from West to East. At the eastern edge, however, beyond the Crimea and the Black Sea, appears a 1,000-km-long mountain range the Greater Caucasus, which has more than a dozen peaks The mountains begin Its proximity to the Black Sea makes the West Caucasus A stone's throw away lie magical primeval forests that in late autumn The forests are home The icy cold But their food is increasingly hard And twigs are a poor substitute. Soon, these animals, won't be able to cover Today there are once again At the end of the 1920s Only releasing reverse-bred creatures Driven by hunger and instinct, The animals sense that the ground will soon be covered Too much even for Europe's At some point, and a long, arduous trek begins. The migration is uphill, until well over the tree-line. Up here, there is less snow, An icy, high-altitude wasteland, The herd move higher and higher. What is it that drives them onwards? Many high-altitude valleys One false move could fall or sink into a crevasse. Other herds join the trek, At the end of their climb, the wisents reach the territory In the white wilderness, even these huge animals But they hold out. What are they waiting for? The answer comes Towering clouds collide heavily [wind blowing] The steep mountainsides Within minutes, accelerated by icy downdraughts. It ends as quickly as it began. The sky over the plateau An area of high pressure The winter sun can now warm the plateau, Well preserved the grasses are still nutritious. For a short moment, It now becomes clear why it was essential Only at this altitude can they find and thus survive the cold season. Surprisingly, the meadows at 3,000 meters are ideal winter grazing And the Devil's Gate provides To the north of the Caucasus in the rain shadow of the main range. Here, the steppes of Kalmykia begin, with their very special inhabitants. Saiga antelopes are steppe dwellers. They prefer to be in the open, as they seem to be regardless of what sets them off. Winter in the steppes is hard, although they lie three kilometers The saiga's trunk-like proboscis Today we know that it provides the animals To protect the lungs the icy air of the steppes in their conspicuous nasal sacs. If one approaches one can't miss at over 5,600 meters high. Standing to one side of the main range, Europe's highest mountain A dormant volcano which is Beyond the other double summits Europe gradually becomes Asia. Hard to imagine could support life. But towards the end of April [high-pitched whooping] Caucasian snowcocks. They live in the stony crags Early travelers called the shy birds The ibexes are nervous. Spring is avalanche season. [rumbling, cracking] Thousands of tons of snow turning mountainsides into death zones. It's unclear whether animals have a sort of sixth sense. If they do, in the Caucasus at least, with many animals falling victim The snowcocks certainly aren't bothered. The ibexes hesitate. Will the snow hold? It's much faster descending than a slope of scree. The ibexes of the Caucasus The females form small herds In spring, and are thus even more cautious Bears, wolves, or lynx but when a lot of young are around, it's tempting for predators The kids plunge head over heels good practice for emergencies Such happy capering is often short-lived. In spring, phases of good weather There's no trusting the seasons here. Within the space of 24 hours, it can turn from autumn and then to deepest winter. Storms and plunging temperatures This is probably the reason that above all marmots, haven't established themselves The combination of the region's have nevertheless produced In the Eastern foreland of Dagestan the Sarykum. Two hundred and sixty meters high the dune is a miniature version here on the edge of Europe. A toad-headed agama. In times of danger, Like agamas, long-eared hedgehogs have with a European outpost Their striking ears but also regulate The female has but one aim in mind. [wind blowing] As their name implies, wandering dunes are constantly without which the dune No plant can put down roots The agamas have adapted: special rows of scales Away from the sandstorm, the hedgehog suckles its young. Long-eared hedgehogs In good years, In this case, the mother but even then she needs In a few days, the baby hedgehogs will be In the meantime, they just try The morning after the storm is calm The hedgehog will put off going out Like their short-eared relatives, Agamas, by contrast, hunt in daytime. A bad choice of prey. The beetle protects itself which kills, if not the predator, This time... A portion this size Dinner or danger? Neither nor. The little Montpellier snake In the dry Northern Caucasus, The time has to be put to good use. A centipede on the hunt. These aggressive arthropods neutralizing even larger prey The young hedgehog is not immune The decisive thing is speed... and making sure it bites the right end. As desert specialists, the hedgehogs Without food, however, The Sarykum dune, small, isolated and yet Russia's The origin of the dune lies close by. The valleys of the eastern foothills In the Western Caucasus, canyons of limestone lead up At the beginning of July, many of A botanist's dream, the Caucasus is home of which a quarter occur only here. In the shade of a glacial valley, They support themselves on their elbows Salt is scarce at high altitude, which explains the intensity Even though their hooves the animals scrape away Has the guy next to you That may mean trouble. Everywhere a good opportunity Albeit a playful one. All this activity doesn't go unnoticed. One floor up, The chamois, however, aren't seeking salt, Which for the kids means The older chamois are still hesitant. The snow doesn't yet have Who dares to be first in the arena? Each tries to outstare the other. Then they're off. And the snowy slope [lively folk music] The undecided have to join in, whether they like it or not. In the end, they're all on their feet. With ever-wilder moves, Their apparently limitless energy having adapted to life at high altitude, the animals have extra-large lungs. Pirouettes only count if performed Second attempt. No problem! The chamois' behavior but merely appears to express Sure-footed and agile, The cumbersome turs Another change in the weather is brewing. From the Black Sea, The animals are nervous. It's very possible that they sense The Western Caucasus is one of The storm breaks. First rain, then hail, and the next moment snow. The winter makes a reappearance - even though it may not look like it. For Caucasus-hardened species, Morning mist in the steppes of Kalmykia. In the shade of some of begins an offshoot that used to extend It's not easy to get a good overview For the Saiga antelopes, As ever, the herds are The females, however, are gradually separating themselves They are heavily pregnant One after another, they slink off. White storks on their way north Fully focussed on the hunt, Missed! Gotcha! The sand lizard doesn't stand a chance. Or does it? Whatever's waggling But the lizard The stork has to make a snap decision: What's happened Long gone. Life goes on... or starts anew. The first young were born last night. Well hidden the kids have to get by on their own. The mother only comes How they manage to find their young again [bleating] Not all the kids are steady on their feet. This one seems to be injured It bleats pitifully but saigas only accept their own young. Even if a mother were to lose her kid, [bleating] The young antelope stays hungry... and lonely. For now, it can only take cover, as especially in the birthing period [caws] Its fate appears to be sealed. If the herd moves on, it is lost. [caws] Once again, [grunts] This is the call The little saiga has one day and learn to walk. The antelopes are getting restless. Once again, Nothing can hold back the saigas. Our little straggler Europe's last saigas as their horns are sold in China As it is almost impossible the proportion of males Autumn draws into as early as August. The countryside is wreathed in fog. It takes a while for the sun The mountain wisents and climbed up to the open plateau. This time, It's the juggernauts' mating season, and undergrowth and brushwood The bulls need a good view. And plenty of room. Even though the sun it'll take a long time to chase At last, the herd girds its loins. Young bulls try to drive cows together This inevitably brings conflict, over cows being hustled The older bulls are less active, When all the cows are assembled, they sort out those Tiresome young bulls are driven off. Brown bears are no match This female has every reason The bulls are much more aggressive and escaping across open ground On the slope, The hill is fought over While the young bulls tussle, These three have sensibly decided and start grazing. Caucasian brown bears For today, the winner has been The boss presents his massive side view. That should be enough Time for some grooming. And wherever wisents wallow, A hoofprint, and already bumble bees Inside the miniature haystack, the queen is hatching her eggs. Worker bees are collecting nectar brimming with flowers. [buzzing] The shrubs, some as tall as a man, are a paradise for insects Small birds are magically Some develop The warbler shoots upwards Attacked from below, Others don't even wait Late summer is the best time of year The periods of good weather last longer and not every raincloud It's as if nature before the onset of pitiless winter. In summer, it's clear to see how At the same time, albeit smaller ones. A protective layer of dust and debris slowing down the melting process. Even today, the power of more than shapes the Caucasus and the mountains Meltwater and heavy rains have formed wide valleys In the midst of the semi-desert, lush riparian forests have formed, [bird of prey calls] Imperial eagles build their eyries Here, they have an excellent look-out but are themselves highly visible as soon as they show up in the eyrie. This lesser grey shrike to such an extent Thousands of years of erosion and flooding have sculpted a unique landscape The reptile-rich canyons are the territory The female has killed Snake eagles make a clear distinction With poisonous snakes, they always remove The male was a bit too quick Flash floods have hollowed out At the bottom of these potholes, The locust is injured Within a few minutes, the much-bigger insect is overpowered The eaglet is insatiable. Its parents bring it But when it comes to consuming them, The young of the little owls are also waiting for provisions. Snake eagles eat their prey whole. The longer the snake, the longer it takes. Owls hunt smaller birds, The parent bird hesitates. The eaglet needs a break. For the last time, Tomorrow the owlets will start learning The final morsel. Autumn in the mountains is short and can turn into deepest winter For the wisents, and move down Here too, The tall shrubs are dying, The furry behemoths push through [stag bellows] The giant hogweed dwarfs even The red deer are getting and leave the protection of the forest. While the does the stags drive them [stags bellow] Their journey takes them through fields The stags, too, Every day [wind blowing] In autumn Suddenly out of nowhere Snow covers the plateau. In less than an hour, winter has arrived. The chamois have been taken by surprise but are otherwise not bothered. Their mating season Chamois were made Red deer are less at home at such heights, [stag bellows] In the thin air, and won't have any strength left The old stag moves on without a fight. [bellows] Europe's highest mountains, A region unique in its rich diversity. The influence of these mountains and leaves its mark on the land The mysterious mountain world The Greater Caucasus. [narrator] A thousand-kilometer-long The Greater Caucasus. But what lies behind these mountains? A world full of surprises Rare animals Red-hot desert basins in the midst of icy alpine plateaus. Hunters... and the hunted. It simmers here beneath the surface. Elemental forces and in return create paradises. In the Lesser Caucasus, between two seas and biblical mountains. It's an age-old question: Where does Europe end? And: Where does Asia begin? The search for answers between Turkey and Iran. A widely unknown highland framed by both the Black the Lesser Caucasus. In the north, the area borders the Greater Caucasus, where Russia begins. The over-4,000-meter-high peaks have been scarcely tapped Rugged domes of ice and snow divide countries, habitats and cultures. Even measured by Siberian cold fronts, there is no way through here. As of the East Caucasus, the weather is determined Freshly fallen snow to leave the highlands. The pastures of the East Caucasian ibex remain buried beneath meters of snow. The herd slowly follows the tracks The snow-covered, steep slopes pose risks even for the ibex. Their instincts lead them where the wind and the sun The East Caucasus rises above The animals can only forage The few open high meadows and stone pits are a magnet for Caucasian snowcocks. Patches like these The hens search for safe nesting sites and eat continually. Very soon, Snowcocks are monogamous. Couples stay together all their lives. He only has to win over his partner once. But a safe breeding place Snowcocks conquer [snowcock calling loudly] [narrator] When the best spots a noisy song contest gets underway. [snowcocks calling loudly] [narrator] The cocks outgun one another that is carried for miles. This is the sound of these mountains. Like the ibex, the snowcocks Like a fata morgana, the mountains of the Lesser Caucasus appear to hover above the horizon. They are just 150 kilometers But they are worlds apart. Three thousand meters the land is dusty and hot. A deep basin over the entire length. Protected from Siberian cold air, fertile cultural landscapes The rivers from the Caucasus are the only water veins They are seamed Imperial eagles Their eyries throne Imperial eagles hunt anything birds, reptiles or small mammals. Even chickens from the nearby villages often land in the eagles' nest. These are then expertly carved Tortoises, on the other hand, and their two shell halves The river valleys, have been home for herders Slowly, the water trickles The land is becoming continually drier, the river valleys turn into gullies. Vultures glide down with the thermal The open savannas Three species of vulture live here, and they all meet regularly whenever there is something Vultures observe each other When one of them the neighbors react immediately. This is why it often looks meet out of the blue. In this case, though, If vultures have brilliant eyesight, golden jackals have a very fine nose. They know that time is short. Although until now it won't be long Until then, the work must be done. The ubiquitous magpies but the pack has divided into groups. Egyptian vultures Smaller than geese, the little omnivores have to be wary when in the vicinity of jackals. The first griffon vulture. The magpies can't stop him. Things are getting tight. The cinereous vulture of his little relative. Very soon now It's high time for action. [dramatic music plays] [narrator] Two of them cause a veritable riot amongst the invading vultures. During the turmoil, the third manages And none too soon, The lesser the food, the more irritable the mood. Cinereous vultures None of the birds manage to swallow a few morsels undisturbed. Time and again, a fresh onslaught. The huge birds attack like kickboxers. Everything seems to be allowed. The winner But even he had to fight Fresh supplies are not far behind. Without the farmers with their herds, there would not be half as many between the Greater and Lesser Caucasus. Not far away, Little bustards have escaped the cold The semi-deserts are the largest wintering areas Every year, more than 100,000 of them make their way A wonder of bird migration at the lowest point Nine hundred years ago, at the highest ridge An immense earthquake Probably within seconds, created a completely new landscape. Entire valleys simply disappeared. Rivers were blocked, Ever since then, this land has remained untouched. A cascade of crystal-clear lakes connected via mountain streams that have found their way The landscape which, geologically, Born of a catastrophe here in the Lesser Caucasus. Volcanic activity and earthquakes Beneath the mountains, edges its way inexorably toward Eurasia. In the highland further west, the Christian-Islamic religious border In the shadow of the twin peaks a barren land In winter, temperatures often sink Bezoar goats are the wild ancestors Today, more and more, by their domesticated relatives, up into the inaccessible highlands. Only in winter, the animals search Despite scarce settlements, Armenia's mountains and ancient pastures. Herds have roamed for more than two millennia. Ancient churches hidden in valleys, many of them over a thousand years old. The Noravank Monastery the Mongolians made their way to Europe. The Armenians yet strong form of Christian belief despite all foreign domination. No one, not the Romans, Persians In the course of centuries social cohesion The mountain range The petroglyphs of Ughtasar Artists in the Bronze Age and these have been extended Bezoar goats, warriors or leopards in this archaic open-air gallery with its more than 1,000 works of art. On the next slope, it is as if the drawings have come alive. The bezoar goats In the autumn, follow the larger herds. The obvious reason for their interest? It's the mating season, The senior male When he finds what he is looking for, he purses his upper lip in order to amplify the effect The hunt is on. [fast-paced Armenian music plays] [narrator] Strangely enough, Young and old can be found and it can get pretty wild. This can be very dangerous As the hunt grows wilder, This strenuous back and forth Many fall, and injuries are common. After several days, many of the males No one knows why bezoar goats Is this how the females test Not everyone is convinced of the results. But so close to home, he won't take no for an answer. The tete-a-tete After around two weeks, go their own ways for another year. Four and five thousand meters high, the twin peaks of the Ararats of the Lesser Caucasus, Jungle cats spend the entire year here in the reed beds of fishponds. Though being carnivores, They are hunters. Jungle cats stalk their prey They're not picky either. The cat is young and curious. As if taken for granted, She cannot dive away The attack shouldn't be taken seriously. The cat has eaten enough, and now, the youngster just wants to play. The sibling is more focused. The ponds are regularly drained Whoever remains in the shallow water quickly becomes an easy meal. The cats just have to wait swims close enough to the shore. They are in their element. Jungle cats are by nature Fishing has never been and they don't have to waste their time Once heaved on land, it's all over Surrounded by cultural land, the fishponds provide ample space for wild animals. Despite having small Armenia has been able Its barren highland The steppes in the eastern foreland are the home of nomadic herders. Many families have Persian roots. Iran is just a few kilometers away. Hundreds of blue-cheeked bee-eaters swarm over well-trodden livestock paths. The birds set up their colony directly in the backyard Neither watchdogs nor other animals It is as if the birds belong there. The reasons for this neighborhood The bee-eaters breed underground. The more open the soil, the easier it is It's astonishing the sometimes meter-deep The most difficult directly below the surface. This is why someone for suitable building shells. An innocent expression. But the owner smells a rat Blue-cheeked bee-eaters like dragonflies, wasps or robber flies. Their colonies can often be found near to steppe lakes Cables are gladly misused Food is so abundant their nesting sites practically anywhere. If you breed on the ground, Desert ants specialize in leftovers. They are like an ant version Their orientation is driven by smell. They approach against the wind direction, enabling them The grasshopper is not up for grabs yet. The giant centipede knows exactly what the ant is after. After a while, he gives up and grants the irritating guest his will. Tropical bee-eaters populate the farm like domestic fowl. A colorful side by side that can only occur Golden jackals keep their distance. You don't mess around The small pack is on its way back They sleep off the heat of the day But young jackals Just one more game. The two smallest play around as if they hadn't spent While another one hunts mosquitoes. And the fourth Tired parents The first rays of sun Whose reflection is that? Can it leap on me? Even the waves The sun's rising. Time for bed. The canal is connected the Ak-Goel. It's a relic of the once-broad marshlands The two main water veins washed their annual high water and created a unique water wilderness. As a breeding and resting place the Ak-Goel is of inestimable value. All of Europe's nine heron species as well as the glossy Ibis The abundance of fish But good balance is necessary, as reed stalks For pygmy cormorants with their webbings, a real challenge. Their advantage is in water. The feet of the herons are not designed for landings The spoonbill prefers to remain in water while others try to get hold of the redemptive reed stalks above him. Each in his own way, rarely graceful. It gets quite sporty begin to shake the reed stalks. The defense of the squacco heron On the faltering stalks, Just who of the little egrets is something only known Things are even rougher It almost borders on acrobatics how the older birds manage to balance As so often happens at a rodeo, Peace returns with the evening. The reed lakes in the old marshes of the Kura and Arax Rivers form the most important bird sanctuary in the entire Lesser Caucasus. Every year, the abundance of fish secures the survival of thousands in the dry cultural landscapes In the Georgian foreland two tributaries of the Kura the canyons of Vashlovani. Calm prevails The short-toed snake eagle although it's reminiscent of an oven. Should a breeze occur, he wants to store For hours on end, the little eagle observes the flying silhouettes He is, as it is common for snake eagles, the only youngster in the nest. Like a fata morgana, an old bird sails aimlessly But he doesn't land. The other parent is the one And like all birds of prey, Until they are ready to fly, they have no chance It's hardly worth waiting for rain Therefore, for the young eagle, They not only mean food, but also water. This means, when he eats a lot, he quenches his thirst at the same time. Like all vertebrates, snakes consist It is crucial, though, to keep the liquid The variety of habitats never fails to fascinate. The canyons of Vashlovani Despite their aridness, they still belong stretched out between Towards the east, They lead down whose coast lies 28 meters A world as if it were on another planet. Nowhere else as in the Caspian lowlands of Azerbaijan. The funnels are cold volcanoes. From the Earth's crust, forge their way to the surface. Where there are mud volcanoes, Huge supplies lie dormant beneath the crust of Azerbaijan Two centuries ago, of never-ending dwindling oil wells, from which the fuel In the meantime, but the old pumps on land Day and night, for decades. The Shirvan National Park A small group in the chill of the morning. The Shirvan semi-desert for these gazelles in the Transcaucasus. The animals were widespread up until the middle of the last century. Excessive agriculture and poaching Pristine desert steppes, Thanks to strict protection, around 2,500 of these animals Goitered gazelles live exclusively and are therefore well-adjusted The only water they get is in their food. Difficult to imagine, when one observes In the coastal basin of the Caspian Sea, the gazelles often graze Many plants have adapted by either tolerating surplus salt In summer, in the early morning hours or evenings. For good reason. Despite being reptiles, too high temperatures The bodies of the little animals and can overheat The male tortoise is overheated The Greek tortoise is notorious Gruff shoving and knocking and is designed to put hesitant females Once a female has been detected, no time is lost. Should, however, then the whole thing remains a dry run. That's better. It's much easier downhill. The cold-blood becomes a firebrand. The somersault If the mating was successful, soon, she will lay her eggs The water level of the Caspian Sea rises and sinks in irregular cycles. Land appears or disappears again For Caspian gulls, When the water recedes, This obviously doesn't trouble the gulls. Branches are rare Without further ado, the new materials When combined with natural raw materials, this makes for denser and warmer nests. Thus making a virtue out of a necessity. In the heat of the day, two goitered gazelles head for the sea. The animals nor are they escaping The water-saving kings drink. They drink in the churned-up sea. More and more animals toward the open sea. Is it all of the salt-tolerant plants that make the desert animals thirsty? The gazelles don't feel [tense music plays] [narrator] When one jumps up, The flight reflex can save lives. This time, the panic was unfounded. The wild boars They are combing through the reeds and chew here and there They spend the whole year A flock of greater flamingos flies across the alpine backdrop of the Lesser Caucasus. Flamingos often fly long haul, always in search of plankton-rich, Where has this troupe come from? Africa? Central Asia? Hard to say. The Caspian lagoons The flamingos will filter and then fly off again. Middays, when it gets too hot, the wild boars set themselves up There, they have everything they need and don't have to worry about attacks. Neither from farmers, The gazelles return to the sea. It remains a mystery why they do that and how they tolerate Behind the world's largest inland sea, The Absheron Peninsula is the last extension after more than sinks into the Caspian Sea.