Hey, everyone. This year I'm doing on the future of the Internet and society And today I'm here with Yuval Noah Harari. A great historian and best-selling author of a number of books. His first book, chronicled and did an analysis, going from the early days to now how our civilization is organized. And your next two books, the Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow actually tackle important issues And that's a lot But most historians But a lot of the work that you've done and raised important questions So I'm really glad to have an opportunity So, Yuval, thank you for joining Yeah, I'm happy to be here. I think that if historians with the current questions of technology then we aren't doing our jobs. We are not just supposed All the people that lived in the past They don't care. The question is, what happens to us Yeah. All right, so all the questions where should we start here? And one of the big topics is around this dualism around whether... With all of the technology in progress are people coming together Or is our world becoming more fragmented? And so, I'm curious to start off and that's probably a big area. We could probably spend most of the time Yeah, if you look then it's obvious that humanity's becoming If, thousands of years ago, of a lot of isolated worlds so, gradually, people came together until we reached today is a single historical, But connectivity The people we fight most often are our own family members So, it's really a question of, or are we talking Connecting people And when you look at the world today, you see this duality... For example, in the rise of walls, which we talked about earlier when we met. Yeah. Which, for me, is something that I just because you have and the Internet and virtual realities And then the most... One of the top And not just cyber walls or firewalls, Like the most Stone Age technology So, how to make sense of this world, but at the same time than ever before. Yeah, well, I think is around whether there's actually of people becoming more connected and this fragmentation One of the things that it seems to me In the 21st century, in order to address and challenges that humanity has... All right, so, Spreading prosperity, spreading peace, as well as some of the big challenges. Right, addressing climate change, making sure that, on the flip side, and that there aren't epidemics We really need to be able to come together But at the same time, that only works if we, as individuals, have our economic And so, one way to think about this but another way to think about it And I just think about, when I was growing up, one of the big things is for people who share their real values and interests. And it wasn't always like this, right? Before the Internet you were really tied And I just think about I grew up in a town of about 10,000 people and there were only or activities that you could do. So, I grew up, playing Little League Baseball. And I think about this in retrospect and it's like I'm not really an athlete when my real passion And the reality was that, growing up, who was into programming computers, so I didn't have a peer group or a club It wasn't until I went to boarding school where I actually was able to meet people And now with the Internet, And now you have the ability to not just but to find people who have and different kind of subcultures which I think is a really powerful thing. But it also means I probably wouldn't have played And you can think about That could've been a unifying thing, where there weren't that many things so that was a thing So maybe if I was creating... that might've been more meaningful to me, getting to know real people, but around programming, you would've said that our community, would've been more fragmented, right? And people wouldn't have had So, when I think about these problems, is fragmentation, personalization are two sides of the same coin. But the bigger challenge is whether there are a number of people who are just left behind who were people but haven't now found their new community And maybe their primary orientation is still the physical community Or they haven't really been able to find a community of people And as the world has progressed, I think a lot of people And that probably contributes That would be my hypothesis, at least. That's the social version of it. There's also the economic version which I think is as important. But I'm curious About the social issue, can be a wonderful thing, but they are still incapable -because there are still so many things... That you can only do with your body And you can travel with your mind but not with your body. And there are huge questions about And also the ability of people to just escape things they don't like but you can't do it You can unfriend your Facebook friends, but you can't un-neighbor your neighbors. -They are still there. You can take yourself if you have the means, but most people can't. So, part of the logic was that you must learn how to get along with people you don't like, And you must develop social mechanisms And with online communities... And they have done but also they don't give us the experience of doing these difficult Yeah, and I definitely don't mean to state that online communities that a physical community did. The most meaningful online communities are ones that span online and offline, that bring people together... Maybe the original organization but people because that, ultimately, 'cause we're physical beings, right? So, whether it's... You know, there are lots of examples around whether it's an interest community but they also care about So, a group of people organize online, Every week, or through a town and clean up garbage. That's like a physical thing. We hear about communities where, you know, people, Maybe the military where you have to move around a lot, people form these communities or families of, you know, The first thing that they do is that they find that community, and then that's how they get integrated So, that's obviously that I don't mean to understate. Yeah. And then the practical question &quot;What is the goal?&quot; I mean, so ultimately they will leave the screens and go and play football Or are we trying to keep them And there is a conflict of interest there. One model would be &quot;We want people Online, we just need them to stay there to form the connection, -and do something in the outside world. That's one of the key questions I think about what the Internet Whether it's connecting them Yeah, and I think your point is right. We've made this big shift in our systems to make sure that they're optimized Which, of course, the most meaningful are physical, offline interactions. And there's always this question of how you measure the different thing So, you know, it's a lot easier if people are interacting than if you're having But there are ways to get at that. You can ask people questions about what the most meaningful things You can't ask all two billion people, but you can have and have people come in and tell you, okay, what are the most meaningful things and how many of them were enabled by me connecting with people online, or how much of it was me connecting Maybe around the dinner table with content So, that is definitely But I think one of the important is about the richness of the world where you have, on one level, where there's a common framework Maybe it's through using or maybe it's just common social norms One of the things in a previous conversation is now something that's different is that you can travel to almost Dress like you're appropriate 200 years ago or 300 years ago, If you went to a different country, There's this norm... There's this level of cultural norm but then the question is, And, I think, one of the things or shared values and framework enables is a richer set of sub-cultures and people to actually go find in lots of different communities, to be creative, Going back to my story before, it wasn't just my town You know, I think, when I was growing up, basically every town There's a Little League in every town. You know, maybe instead of every town there should be... But if you want to do something that in my case, programming. maybe, you know, interest in some part there just may not be another person in your 10,000-person town I think it's good if you can form And now people have... and can find a group of people I think there's a question, though, Right, because now We're not all going to church and doing the exact same things. Or you can think about that as richness I just think that is where you want and the connection, that commonality even if that means that I'm curious if you have a view on that versus where that creates Yeah. Almost nobody would argue of a richer social environment to connect around all kinds of things. The key question is how do you on a level of a country, on the level of the entire globe I mean, we need global cooperation because we are facing We just had Earth Day, we cannot deal of climate change, Similarly, if you think about caused by new technologies we need to find a mechanism around issues like how to prevent How to prevent different countries and killer robots, and weaponizing social networks. Unless we have global cooperation, Because every country will say, &quot;Well, we don't want to produce &quot;But we can't allow &quot;so we must do it first.&quot; Similarly, if you think about to the job market and the economy, So, it's quite obvious But will they be evenly distributed One of the potential results could be the concentration of immense and the complete bankruptcy There will be a lot of new jobs but there will be maybe no jobs and truck drivers in Honduras and Mexico. If we don't find a solution like creating a global safety net to protect humans and enabling them then we will create the most unequal economic situation that ever existed. It will be much worse, even than when some countries industrialized, and a few industrial powers and dominate and exploit all the others. So, how do we create so that the enormous benefits don't go only to, say, while the rest of the world Yeah. I think that that's important. I would unpack that One, around AI and the future economic And let's put that aside for a second, because I actually think -I mean, that's a big... That's a big set of things. But then the other question is around that's necessary to take advantage and to address the big challenges, right? I don't think it's just I think that there are -Definitely. spreading more human rights and freedom. Those are things that come with trade So, you want that for the upside. But, I guess, my diagnosis I'm curious to hear your view on this. ...is I actually think we've spent a lot maybe even longer working on making it so that people can connect. I actually think is making it so that in addition making it so that things work Because I think there's this dualism here If you just resort to then you miss the opportunity to work But if you have a global framework, but people feel like or some set of people then they're not the global collaboration I think there's which we talked about a little bit before to find communities that match but some people and are left behind as some of the more And some of these communities -so we shouldn't forget that. Although, I would argue that people is largely a result of not having healthier communities and not having healthy economic progress I think most people, they don't seek out extreme communities. So there's a lot of work that I think we as an Internet platform provider to lock that down even further. But I actually think creating prosperity is probably one of the better ways, But I guess... But maybe just stop there a little. People that feel good about themselves have done some of the most terrible things I mean, we shouldn't confuse about themselves and about their lives with people being benevolent And also, they wouldn't say And we have so many examples from the Roman Empire to slave trade that people, they had a very good family life I mean, I guess most Nazi voters If you meet them for a cup of coffee they were nice people, and they think good things and some of them And even the ideas that we look back, and say, &quot;This was terrible. they didn't think so. Again, if you just think Well, but World War II, that came through a period of after the Industrial Revolution... Let's put aside the extreme example. Let's just think about European So people say in Britain, they had the best life in the world And they didn't suffer or disintegration of society And they thought that by going and conquering and changing societies they were bringing lots of good And I'm just saying that about not confusing the good feelings It's not just miserable people suffering Well, I think that there's a difference of a wealthy society going and colonizing or doing different things That wasn't the fringe in that society. I guess, what I was was your point I would argue that, in those societies, that wasn't those people You can have a long debate and whether the direction that a society and the ramifications of that. But I think today which is that more people are seeking out solutions at the extremes, and I think a lot of that is both economic and social. So that... I think that there's a lot of ways And I think part of it, as someone who is running I think we have a special responsibility to make sure that our systems But I think, broadly, is to make sure that people feel like and that sense of purpose and community and that their lives are... And I think that, statistically, is that when people have they don't, on balance, as much, And I think that there's there's also the economic version. This is the basic story On the one hand, for bringing a lot of people Where people in India and Southeast Asia who wouldn't have previously had access to a lot of jobs And there's been probably the greatest... Because hundreds of millions of people and that's been positive. But the big issue has been that there have been a large number of people who are now competing with all these and jobs are moving to these other places. So a lot of people have lost jobs. For some of the people there's now more competition so their wages, that's one of the factors The analyses have shown And there are according to a lot of the analyses who are actually, in absolute terms, Now that doesn't necessarily mean for the whole world is negative. I think, in general, But the story we've told about it in that we've only talked as this global movement to bring people out of poverty And the reality, I think, has been but if there are five or 10% seven billion people in the world, so that's many hundreds the majority of whom are likely in the most developed countries, that's going to create a lot of So in order to have it feels like you need it to work but then you also need individuals and to feel like it's working for them, too, So in local cities and communities, people need to feel like both economically and socially. So I guess at this point, and I've rotated a lot of Facebook's is our mission used to be Now it's about helping people and bringing people closer together. And a lot of that is because I actually to support more global connection is making sure You know, in a lot of ways, So that an emerging creator can... But how do you balance working it locally and at the same time working it better for people in Mexico, Part of the imbalance is that when people everybody pays attention, because they have their finger But if people in Mexico we care far less, The pain, and I'm not saying the pain But the pain of somebody in Indiana than the pain of somebody simply because of the imbalances Earlier, what we said about fragmentation, I know that Facebook faces about encouraging people, some people, That's a big problem, I think, also, it's something if you put enough energy into that. That is something you can solve. But this is the problem that gets What I worry more, about the entire direction that the new Internet economy and the new tech economy is going towards, is increasing inequality between different parts of the world, which is not a result but the results of a certain And, secondly, undermining human agency, and undermining the basic and the free market, and individualism. These, I would say, about the development of technology And this will continue to be even if we find solutions to the issue of social extremism Yeah, I certainly agree I would think about it more as a symptom and a big issue But I think the bigger question that everyone has a sense of purpose, has a role that they feel matters, Because, at the end of the day, And I think it's easy to abstract that away. But that's such a fundamental part That's why I focus on that. Do you want to move over Because I think that that's... Or do you want to stick on this topic No, this topic is closely connected to AI. Again, because I think that one I'm a huge fan of science fiction, but I think it has done which is to focus attention and the wrong dangers, that people think, &quot;AI is dangerous And this is extremely unlikely that we'll face a robot rebellion. I'm much more frightened than about robots rebelling I think the two main problems with AI, and we can explore this in greater depth, First, increasing inequality Because you'll have some countries the new AI economy. And this is such a huge advantage that it kind of trumps everything else. And we will see... creating this huge gap between a few industrial powers and then it took 150 years and over the last few decades, the gap has been closed, or closing, as more and more countries, Now the gap may reopen because of the rise of AI and because AI is likely to be dominated So that's one issue. AI inequality. And the other issue is AI Or even the meaning of human life. What happens when AI is mature enough and you have enough data to basically And you have an AI that knows me and can make decisions for me, predict my choices, and authority increasingly shifts from humans to algorithms. So, not only decisions but even decisions like who to befriend, whom to marry. We increasingly rely and what does it do to human life and human agency? So, these I would say, are the two and AI and human agency. Yeah. And I think both of them get down to a similar question around values. And who is building this and how does that end up playing out. Yeah, I tend to think that we almost personify AI, right? You're point around killer robots But I actually think it's... AI is very connected So, almost every technology product, and increasingly a lot of are made better in some way by AI. So, it's not like AI is a monolithic thing it powers a lot of products. and it can get towards some of the distribution of opportunity But it also is with these really around data and privacy, and what are the policies around that, So, one of the big questions that... So, I tend to agree with a lot which is that a lot of the countries that have the ability of which AI and data are certainly an important area, are doing that because it will give an advantage in the future and to be the ones that I tend to think that, right now, the United States has a major advantage that a lot of the global and, certainly, a lot of the values are shaped largely by American values. They're not only... and we serve people around the world, But, certainly, that's something by the American ideas around free speech, and strong adherence to that. So, I think, culturally and economically, there is an advantage to push forward the state of the field, and have the companies that, are the strongest companies in that. So, certainly, you see different countries And this is very tied up in -and equality, but also... Does a country like Honduras, has any real chance Or are they... They're already out. It's not going to happen in Yemen, And then what happens to them -in 20 years or 50 years? gets down to the values Right? I think that there are certain advantages that countries 'cause you get to critical mass and investment, and things like that. But one of the values that we here both at Facebook, and generally the academic system hold, is that you do open research, right? So, a lot of the work into these advances, in theory, if this works well, So, then you can have an entrepreneur in one of these countries which maybe isn't Certainly, I think you'd bet in the future, all of the AI companies But I don't think it's far-fetched to believe that there will be who can use Amazon Web Services who can hire people across the world and can leverage research in the US or across Europe or in different or companies that increasingly that are pushing the state-of-the-art So, I think that there's this big question about what we want the future And part of the way that I think is we want it to be open, I think we want the Internet And this gets back to your One of the big risks for the future is that the Internet policy It ends up being fragmented. And if that's the case, that you're talking about, Honduras, if they can't leverage all the advances But if the Internet stays one thing, then they have a much better shot. So, when I look towards the future, one of the things is the values that I just laid out And when you get into and their data policies, they're very different that are across Europe People are talking about Just to put a finer point on that, and I've been very vocal that I think that more countries should adopt And a lot of people, I think, &quot;Why are you arguing You know, &quot;Why now, &quot;you weren't as positive on it?&quot; And I think part of the reason is I think, at this point, that these questions around data, So there's going to be a framework I mean, it's not like So I actually think &quot;What is it going to be?&quot; And the most likely alternative that encodes the freedoms and rights In my mind, the most likely alternative is the authoritarian model, which is currently being spread, you know, &quot;Every company needs to store And if I'm a government, go send my military there and be able I'd be able to take that or helping, you know, And I just think And that's not the direction that I, as someone who's building or just as a citizen of the world, To be the devil's advocate for a moment, I mean, if I look at it So, I listen to the American president &quot;And I'm a nationalist, &quot;I care about the interests of America.&quot; And I wonder, is it safe to store the data and not in India, they care only about themselves. So, why should it be in America Well, I think that the motives matter, and certainly, would consider India So I would say that... Well, it can still say, &quot;We want data &quot;to be stored on Indian soil. &quot;We don't want it to be stored Yeah. And I can understand and I think And I think countries can come at this and still conclude that something But I think one of the things is that if you set that precedent, you're making it very easy that don't have open values, and want the data but to be able to surveil them That... So I think, one of... I agree. I mean, it really boils &quot;Do we trust America?&quot; And given the past two or three years, people in more and more places I mean, previously, say, if we were sitting here ten years ago, when America declared itself we can argue a lot Or, at least, on the declaratory level, this was how America presented itself &quot;We are the leaders of the free world, But now we see a different America. America which doesn't want even to be... Again, it's not a question but how America presents itself But as a country which is interested, and in its own interests. And just this morning, that the US is considering having a veto against using sexual violence And the US is the one And as somebody I ask myself, &quot;Can I still trust America if America itself says, Well, I think that from the direction Because, I mean, GDPR, that it would be better if more countries because I think that that's just significantly better a lot of which are these -I mean, GDPR originated in Europe, right? So it's not an American invention. And I think, in general, of cross-border flow of ideas and trade, that's not an American idea, right? I mean, that's a global philosophy And I think that the alternatives to that which breaks down At worst, a growth in authoritarianism And that's where I think that the precedents on some of this stuff I mean, I think you're doing a good job of playing devil's advocate because you're bringing that I think someone with good intent &quot;Hey. Maybe a different set &quot;is something that we should consider.&quot; The thing that I just worry about is that, what we've seen is that that's a precedent that might be more authoritarian use to basically be a precedent to argue And then that spreads. And I think that that's bad, right? And that's one of the things that, as the person running this company, I'm quite committed to making sure that we play our part and keeping the Internet as one platform. So, I mean, that I think I get to make, &quot;Where are we going to build And we've made the decision in countries that we think where people's data and that could put people in harm's way. And, you know, I mean, a lot has been... There have been around questions of censorship. And I think that those are I mean, a lot of the reason is because I care giving people as much voice as possible. I don't want people to be censored. At some level, these questions and whether authoritarian governments I think, are even more sensitive because if you can't say something that is highly problematic, I think, in a lot cases, But if a government then it can identify who you are and hurt you and hurt your family, in ways that are just really deep. So, I do think have an obligation and fight establishing precedents, even if a lot of the initial countries have good intent. I think that this can And when you talk about, in the future, AI and data, which are two concepts I just think whether it's part of a more global system, a more democratic process that's one of our best hopes If it comes from repressive then I just think that it's gonna be That raises the question of, &quot;How do we build AI in such a way &quot;that it's not inherently &quot;and manipulation and control?&quot; I mean, this goes back to the idea that knows you better Which is kind of the ultimate surveillance And we are building it now It's being built. And what are your thoughts which serves individual people and not an AI, which can easily, become the ultimate surveillance tool? Well, I think that that is more about than the technological development. I mean, a lot of the research are just very fundamental, where a researcher will create an advance, and now, all of the neural networks -I'm just throwing this out. And that means that news feed Our systems for detecting things Our ability to find photos of you All these systems get a little better. Now, I think the bigger question where governments are choosing for things like widespread And those countries, they create a real feedback loop which where they say, &quot;Okay, we wanna do this.&quot; So now there's a set of companies and they're getting access because it's allowed and encouraged, so that is advancing that's not a mathematical process, that's a policy process, those are their values, of the feedback loop compared to in countries that might say, &quot;Hey, that kind of surveillance Those companies just don't exist as much I don't know. at least for Jews it's a democracy and it's one of the leaders of the world and we basically have of surveillance technology in the world, And exactly these kinds of systems and exported all over the world. So, given my personal experience I don't necessarily trust in its own inner workings that it will not develop and spread Yeah, I agree. It's not clear but I do think that it is A government can quite easily that they don't wanna support and then the companies to support that kind of surveillance Or at the very least, to continue that technological progress, so that dimension gets stunted compared to others and that's generally the process Technological advance I think it's the job of the people building it and making policies around it and make sure that their effort and mitigating the negative use cases. And that's how I think you end up bending to be things that are positive and I think that's a normal process that happens with most technologies But I think what we're seeing is not the natural mitigation in some cases the economic feedback loop but I don't think it has to be that way, that's not as much a technological I fully agree, but every technology can be used you can use the radio and you can use the radio to broadcast Hitler giving a speech the radio doesn't care, the radio just So, yeah, it is a policy decision, &quot;How do we make sure &quot;in a world where it is becoming &quot;and control people on a massive scale I mean new technology, it's not just and then we have good democratic countries and the question is, The technology itself between democratic and I fear that new technologies not necessarily overwhelming, but they do tend to give an because the biggest problem of which eventually led to their downfall, is that they couldn't process information If you think about the Soviet Union, so you have this which basically says, &quot;We take all the` &quot;move it to one place, to Moscow, &quot;decisions are made in one place This was the Soviet model Versus the American version, &quot;No, we don't have a single center. &quot;and a lot of individuals and businesses In the Soviet Union If I live in some small farm there's somebody in Moscow who tells me how many radishes to grow this year And in America I decide for myself, I get signals from the market And the Soviet model just didn't work well because of the difficulty of processing with 1950s technology. And this is one of the main reasons why the Soviet Union But with new technology it suddenly, but one of my fears is that new technology suddenly makes far more efficient than ever before and far more efficient Because the more data the better your algorithms And this kind of tilts the balance in favor of totalitarianism. And I wonder -Well, I'm more optimistic about... About democracy in this. I think the way is people start talking and then even if it seems in terms of people caring 'cause it's a lot harder than it is just a small number so I think that the history of democracy is it always seems like the totalitarian and the democracies but smart people start discussing and I do think we see that people do now about data issues, people are becoming they realize can both be an asset a lot of benefits and services to you, but increasingly because there are hackers who might be able to break in and use that data against you So maybe people don't want their data maybe they want it to be reduced maybe they want it all to be end-to-end in their private communications, in a way that they didn't before and that's certainly grown a lot So that conversation And I think what's gonna end up happening is that by the time you get people that is just where then you do have people who are capable of making decisions, who I think will generally than too centralized of an approach. And here is again a place and saying AI is a thing and it's almost like a sentient being, I think mischaracterizes It's a set of methods Sorry, let me retract that. It's a lot of technological processes -And I think that's... But that's not just for centralized folks. In our context, so we build, And a lot of the way is we have 90 million small business And now, they have access to the same tools to do advertising, marketing, that previously only the big companies And that's a big advance. When people talk about our company they talk about how there's and that's true, but the flipside of it is that now there are billions of people that they can share information and that's actually and kind of returning power to people. Similarly, people have access have access to more commerce. That's all positive. So, I don't know. I'm an optimist on this. And I think that are the right ones to be thinking about, because if we get it wrong, But, I don't know. I think that the historical precedent You know, where there was the competition between the US and Japan or the Cold War before that, people always thought which is slow to mobilize, And once people get bought into I do think that that will continue to be the best way to spread prosperity and make progress in a way And that's why, when you're talking about economic policy, I think spreading regulatory frameworks I think is one of the most But it starts and having people be aware I agree that in the last few decades, That open democratic systems were better and more efficient. Again, one of my fears is that Because we assume That distributed systems are always better than centralized systems. And we lived, we grew up in a world To do the good thing morally was also to do the efficient thing And a lot of countries their society, their politics, more because they were convinced than of the deep moral argument. And what happens if efficiency Which has happened before in history. I mean, the last 50 years We had many cases before, in which repressive centralized systems and therefore, And there is no law of nature Again, my fear is that the new technology And just by making central data processing it could give a boost Also, in the balance of power that for most of history, the central authority Simply because of the inability So there were some people but usually, their interests Like, my mother knows me very well, but most of the time But now, we are reaching the point when some system far away and the interests Now, yes, we can use that also for good, but I'm pointing out that never existed before. And it could empower totalitarian to do things that were simply Yeah. And if you live in an open democracy, okay, you can rely on all kinds But thinking I think a key question is, from being hijacked by malevolent players who know you Who know you And this is a question Because we never had... Usually, the malevolent players Yeah, okay, so there's a lot I mean, I think... In general, one of the things that... I do think that there's a scale effect. Where one of the best things if we care about these open values and having a globally connected world... I think making sure that the critical mass encodes those values is really important. So that's one of the reasons the spread of authoritarian policies Either inadvertently doing that, or setting precedents Because I think that in the way that is more open, where people have the... where the policy-making around it I think that that's gonna be positive. So I think that maintaining that balance And one of the reasons why tend to do better is because there's no metric Right, when you talk about efficiency, a lot of what people are talking about Yeah. Are we increasing GDP? Are we decreasing poverty? But, I think, is people get to decide on their own, which of the dimensions in society But if you can hijack people's attention, then people deciding on their own Because I don't realize to think that this is what I want. And we are reaching the point you can do that on a massive scale. Again, I speak a lot about the issue And the people are the people who believe in free will, and will simply identify with whatever because they cannot even imagine that this desire this desire is the result Now, it may sound paranoid. And for most of history, because nobody had this kind of ability But here, like, in Silicon Valley, the tools to do that on a massive scale have been developed And they may have been developed Some of them may have been developed of just selling stuff to people, But now the same tools that can be used can now be used to sell me a politician Or an ideology that I really don't need. It's the same tool. and manipulating what's happening inside. Yeah, okay, I think that there's... When designing these systems, I think that there's the intrinsic design, and then there's preventing abuse. So in that, there's two kinds of questions I mean, one is, we saw what the Russian government tried to do That's clear abuse. We need to build really advanced systems in the democratic process Being able to identify that, identify when people are standing up that are not behaving To be able to weed those out, and work with Law Enforcement and folks all around the world to be able to coordinate So, stopping abuse is certainly important, but I would argue that the deeper question is about the intrinsic design -Right? So not just fighting the abuse. And there, I think that... I think that the incentives than a lot of critics might say. And here's why. I think that there's a difference and what they want So, right now, 'cause you think it's silly or fun. You wake up, and... Or you kind of look up an hour later and you're like, So maybe in the narrow, short-term period, you consume some more content, and maybe you saw some more ads, so it seems But it actually really isn't over time. Because people make decisions And what we find, at least in our work, is that what people really want to do It's not just passively consume content. So, we've had to find and constantly to make sure that we're rebalancing it, so that way so that way we make sure that we don't just measure like what you're clicking on, because that can get you But instead, we bring in real people In words, not just filling out scores. But also telling us what the most what content was most important, what interaction did you have with and was that connected And if not, to figure out how we can facilitate that. And what we find is that... Yeah, in the near term, maybe showing some people some more But over the long term, it doesn't. It's not actually aligned or the long term social interest. So, in strategy terms, And I think a lot of people think that businesses and that businesses only care But I think that most businesses that get And I think, last year, I told investors that we'd actually reduce that quarter by 50 million hours a day. Because we wanted to take down the amount because we thought that that was displacing that people were having with other people, which in the near term might have impact on the business for that quarter, it would be more positive, both for how people feel abut the products One of the patterns that I think, or a cause of optimism often times you make decisions you think You think, &quot;I'm doing &quot;but it's gonna hurt for a while.&quot; And I almost always find the long term And that when you make these decisions that they're maybe taking in order to get to what will be that better case, maybe you think but actually it ends up coming in a year. I think people at some deep level And I guess this gets back because at some level, I trust that people have a sense Maybe that if we were maybe that would be better than the Maybe that's better than what's on TV, Maybe it's better than YouTube, we have better content But I think you could still make the service for actually matching what people want. If you do that, I think that the intrinsic design is quite aligned with serving people That's certainly what I care about I think this is like the rock bottom. This is the most important issue what I'm hearing from you when I have these discussions, the customer is always right. The voter knows best. People make a choice. If they choose to do it, then it's good. That has been the bedrock of, at least, western democracies And this is now where Is it still true, in a world to hack human beings that the customer is always right? Or have we gone past this point? And the simple ultimate answer that well, &quot;This is what people want maybe it's no longer the case. Well... I think... It's not clear to me that but that's a very deep question -This is the deepest... People have always... The question isn't new, I mean, if you lived and you didn't have these to decipher and influence people -then it was a different... Okay. For all the talk around, by the current set of tools, I think that there's an argument the world is more democratic now The country was set up as... The US was set as a Republic. So, a lot of the foundational rules being able to vote, and have a voice, and checked the popular will Everything from the way that laws get Everything to the Electoral College, think today is undemocratic, because of a set of values that a I actually think what has happened today, are enfranchised more people are getting to vote. Increasingly people have a voice, And I think a lot of what &quot;Is that good?&quot; It's not necessarily the question of, &quot;but now the technology is different.&quot; I think the technology's made it, and part of the question is, This is a scenario where... Right? And often progress And it's a really hard thing while we're trying to make progress, join the global economy, or help people join the communities, and have the social lives and be accepted in different ways. But it comes with this dislocation and that's a massive dislocation But I actually think that you can and continue to be at, And I think that overall, when we've gotten and we've gotten more representation, and we've made it so people have access and more people I do think that that's made and has... And it's helped progress. And it's not that the stuff It has massive issues. and why I'm optimistic I agree that more people have more voice both in the US and globally. I think you're absolutely right. My concern is, of people... Like, I'm... that I have this voice inside me, which tells me And the more I'm able to express and influence what's happening, it's better, it's more democratic. But what happens if at the same time it's also easier to manipulate To what extent you can really trust that the thought that just popped up is the result of some free will, and not the result of an extremely that understands and knows how to push the buttons and is serving some external entity and it has planted this thought So, it's two different issues. Again, I'm not saying, &quot;I know everything, &quot;but all these people &quot;we cannot trust their voices.&quot; I'm asking this about myself, to what extent I can trust And, you know, I spend two hours And I go on these And my main takeaway from that And it's so complicated. And the simple, naive belief that the thought that pops up in my mind, this was never the case. But, if say, a thousand years ago, were mostly between, you know, and childhood memories increasingly, you have external actors going under your skin, and into And how do I trust that my amygdala How do I know... the extremely complex world inside us, the less easy it is to simply trust what this inner voice Yeah, I understand the point As one of the people who's running ranking systems to try to help show people content that's gonna be There's a dissonance between the way that you're explaining and what I see as a You can build systems that can get Helping to understand which of your so you can rank their content higher But the idea that that's a monolithic thing that understands in a way that's deeper than you do, I think doesn't exist, and is probably So, there's certainly abuse of the systems That I think is more of a On Facebook, you're supposed to be to use your example, Russian agents or folks the IRA who are posing as someone else and you see that content, but you think then that's not an algorithm issue. I mean, that's someone abusing the system, and taking advantage of the fact someone who's generally gonna be so you can trust that the information and kinda slipping and that's the thing But, I don't know, as a broad matter, I do think there's this question of, This kinda brings it full circle is it fragmentation, Is the content that you see... if it resonates, is that because it actually or is it because you're being incepted and convinced of something and is dissonant with your interests and certainly, all the psychological and the experience that we've had, is that when people see things they just ignore it. Right, so, certainly, there can be an evolution that happens that you're gonna be interested in and if that's not managed well, that has the risk of towards adopting a more extreme position, or evolving But I think most of the content, it resonates with people because and to the extent and either trying to represent or trying to take advantage of a bug where we might be more prone that's our job working with governments and making sure we design our systems to not be promoting things that people might engage with but over the long term, will regret And I think it's in our interest And for a while, of some of the problems and challenges and there's certainly a lot more to do, and when you're up against nation states, They're gonna keep evolving their tactics. But the thing the fundamental design of a system, in our incentives, are aligned with helping people connect to the people they want, not just getting people that they're gonna resent later and certainly not making people than what they actually believe, so. Maybe I can try We have two distinct dangers coming out We have the easier danger to grasp which is of extreme totalitarian regimes and this could happen in different... Maybe not in the US, That these tools... You say that these are abuses, but in some countries, That you're living in this system and constantly manipulates you to adopt particular ideas, views, in a way which was never possible before. And this is like the full fledged which could be so effective because they would be completely aligned with the values or the ideals of the... It's not 1984 where you need to No. If you have agents inside their brain, you don't need the external secret police. So that's one danger. It's like Then in places like the US, the more immediate danger is what is increasingly people refer to That you have this system and come to know you and it's all supposedly To give you better recommendations So it starts with recommendations and where to go on vacation, but as the system becomes better, it gives a recommendation on what ultimately, whom to marry, which religion to join, You have all these religious communities, &quot;This is the best religion for you. &quot;For your type of personality, &quot;Judaism, nah, it won't work for you. &quot;Go with Zen Buddhism. &quot;It's a much better fit &quot;You will thank us. &quot;In five years, &quot;'This was an amazing recommendation. And again, people will feel that this is aligned and the system improves over time. Yeah, there will be glitches. but what does it mean that all the most important are being taken by an external algorithm? What does it mean in terms of the meaning of life? For thousands of years, humans tended to view life Life is your... It's a journey, you reach an intersection and you need to choose like what to eat for breakfast and some decisions are really big And almost all of art Whether it's a Shakespeare tragedy, it's about the hero or heroine To be or not to be. To marry &quot;X&quot; or to marry &quot;Y.&quot; And what does it mean to live in a world in which increasingly, we rely on the recommendations untill we reach a point when we simply follow them all the time And they make good recommendations. No, they're good recommendations. We don't have a model for understanding what is the meaning I think the biggest objection to both of the ideas that you just raised is that we have access to a lot of a lot of people to talk to And it's not just like or a single recommendation and that gets to be overwhelming either in the totalitarian or the capitalist model To the contrary, I think people really don't like, when they feel like or just have a single option. One of the big questions &quot;How do we address when there's a hoax, And the most obvious thing is tell people, &quot;Hey, this seems like it's wrong. &quot;that is right.&quot; Or at least if it's a polarized thing, even if it's not clear here's the other point of view on any given issue. And that really doesn't work. What ends up happening is if but they believe it, So that ends up not working. If you frame two things as opposites... If you say, &quot;Okay, you're a person who &quot;about not believing in climate change. &quot;So I'm gonna show you &quot;Here's something that argues That actually just entrenches you further because someone's trying to control and... So what ends up working the thing that ends up is giving people a range of choices. So if you show, with a judgement on the piece of content but instead you show a series of then people can work out for themselves, &quot;Hey, here's the range &quot;Or things that exist on this topic. &quot;Maybe I lean in one direction &quot;but I'm gonna work out for myself Most people don't choose And people end up feeling like they're So, at the end of the day, and the responsibility that we have is to gives people more choices, that can dominate anyone's thinking, but where you can connect to and even if most of your friends share you're probably gonna have who come from a different background and at least that's getting in is well, so So I think these are really and it's not like there's an answer that's going to fully solve it Definitely not it. But these are the right things We've been going for 90 minutes But I think we have in the next one of these at some point in the future and thank you so much for coming This has been a really interesting series Thank you for hosting me and being open which I know that you, being the head I can just sit here and speak but you have many responsibilities so I appreciate that you're putting and dealing with these questions. -Thanks. All right.