- As tech nerds and geeks we got a lot of problems in our lives. Like, fighting for the right Finding the right charging or figuring out if running through your living room is on your gaming rig. But none of it even holds a to trying to figure out how without having to add of monthly subscriptions Now, you could go with a prebuilt NAS from someone like QNAP. Throw a few hard drives in there. But the problem is that Usually not upgradable or serviceable. They're pretty much single purpose. And worst of all, that would What if I told you there was a better way? It's stylish, fully and you get the fun of And best of all, in the config it is actually cheaper than a pre-build. Dang This is the Jonsbo N1. A shoebox-sized case that of hard drive base storage. Holy (beep). - Thanks to Zoho CRM for Zoho CRM is a 360 degree an intuitive UI, AI to help you get your sales done faster. Get 50% off with code (upbeat music) - From the outside, the Jonsbo N1 one looks It's small, but not crazy and minimal but still usable front IO. It can be configured to lie flat or woop, stand up right with little And the outside unibody to give you full access Just gonna pull it up. Look at that. Ooh! This is such a basic approach Look, there's just discreet SATA plugs for all five of the drives here. But it's kind of elegant Like the rest of the case, it's maybe not the nicest and this sort of niche but it's only 126 bucks on AliExpress with the included storage backplane that handles up to five hard drives. If you factor that in, it's like, it's a pretty darn Before we go over the let's talk budget. Our plan was to see if we than the equivalent Synology They're currently out of stock seemingly everywhere anyway. But the price to beat is $700 on the dot if we could buy it. And that's totally achievable. Starting with our motherboard. We went ROG for the motherboard? - [Jake] Yeah. - Hey, ITX motherboards. - [Linus] Okay, we blew but it's for pretty good reason here. It's got dual M.2 slots, so we can put a cache SSD in so we can expand our It's still actually available new. You know, we could have said, And you could definitely shave But motherboards tend to be one of the more likely And when it comes to storage, we want this thing to just work. We don't wanna screw around. It also has 2 1/2 gig LAN. And because it's AMD B550 based, we're gonna start with the lower end chip, but we've actually got a ton of room for upgrades into the future. Now, let's actually get that since we're definitely gonna need it. So... (drive clatters) - [Jake] Oh! I've already dropped it like six times. - [Linus] Good. (driver clatters) Wow. It's still good. - I expect you to go hard on it. - Totally fine. I might produce 100,000 units There's a cover on the top M.2 here. You can see, you can install So, it's a 42 millimeter to an 80 millimeter M.2. We are gonna use the Look at how cute it is here. One quick thing to note is that once you remove the heat sink, there's nothing holding You see that? So, we are just gonna (clears throat) pop that connector back in one of the screws that And we're gonna take the shorter one. We're gonna put it right here. There you go. Now, this daughter board is With that outta the way, we're and install our first bit of storage. Now, it should be noted that just like if you were the storage is not So, we chose a 32 gig optane SSD because these things While they're not super high bandwidth, they're really low latency So in a cache application, to get sort of an enterprise DNA product into your very, very For our CPU, we've elected While you can buy these brand new, still we would strongly recommend trying to find one secondhand the vast majority of your other components and are a pretty safe bet to buy used. We got this one for $120 on eBay but they can be had for as little as $100 if you're willing to take your time. Make sure if you buy it used, that it comes with the because that's gonna wipe if you have to go out and As for RAM, to match the we only need 8 gigs of memory but since prices are decent 16 gigs of 3,600 mega transfer per second G-Skill Ripjaws into our budget. If you're a hardcore user, with up to 32 gigs of RAM Since this will get for our hard drives, thanks to ZFS, it's $64 for this kit right now. Here things get a little The power supply we specked which we had for $80 Unfortunately, EVGA didn't have stock. So, our stand-in is the 650 watt version of the same power supply. It's fully modular. It fits in the case and However, it's a bit overkill So, I'd recommend shopping around to see if there's a cheaper option if you're planning to replicate our build. Now, it's pretty much build time. The first thing we're gonna do is plug in the power to our backplane. Odds are that it would actually run with just one of these That would be like out of spec probably. So, what I think I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take the first plug that in there, then I'm gonna jam the rest of it in there and then take the last And the reason for this is that this has to stay super low profile 'cause this right here is the rail that lets this inner piece So, you can't just have a bunch This is a really important note. Because of that same issue that we don't have any clearance problems while we're sliding this We only want to use 90 degree in the backplane here. Otherwise, you got a high coming outta here. You're gonna rip this and see you later backplane. - [Jake] It's not warranty. - [Linus] Oh, does it say Yeah, we are not liable. Get wrecked. That is a nice looking fan. I like that. Definitely got some static I mean, I guess you need just one fan cooling the entire column of computer behind it. Oh, I guess I need to put Look at that. It's so cute. It just goes right there. For those of you wondering it's for our operating system. And we've chosen to go with TrueNAS which is a free solution. Not to say that it's the only solution. Unraid would be another valid I'd say it's easier to easier to handle docker containers. GPU passthrough is really easy. You could mix and match your drives. But for us, because we're and we're populating it didn't make sense. Your mileage may vary. As for why we used this drive. It was cheap. Many storage OS' actually both are not gonna go outta their because there's no reason for them to. So, basically it's like (CPU clunks) Now, it's time to put our hard drives in. And Jake claims this is - [Jake] Yeah, it's too the part you were supposed to do. What? How is that not? - Why is that not going in? - [Jake] They're sliders. - No, I don't believe you. Oh, good. It's in. - (both) Oh! - [Jake] Oh my God. They don't warranty the backplane dammit. - All right. You're right, these do - [Jake] Those bars are - [Linus] I get it. - [Jake] And then you're of the little dots on the bottom. - Yeah. - I see it. I see it. That's a pretty... - [Jake] See? It slides in - [Linus] That's a pretty nice mount. I didn't put them in all the way. - Oh. a little bit loose. - Here, I'll put mine in all - Sure. Oh crap. Okay. on backwards. This part's a little bit tricky. - Putting this one on backward. - No. So, you see if you've run you can see there's a - [Jake] You just jam it. Right? - [Linus] Yeah. - Just send it, bud. - That's pretty borderline. (clacks) Ooh! What was that? - That was a good um... - That was sending it. Didn't sound like. I mean it's sent. Hold on. Just gotta line up the thing. Just gonna... Oh geez, oh geez. Okay and we gotta do this tiktoks. - Wait, watch- I gotta put it in and oh - [David] Okay. - [David] You going to say, let's go. - Oh my god. I can't. Ow! - Wait, why isn't it going in? Oh, oh. Whoa! - Can you get the other Let's go. Oh, (beep) did I do it too late? - [David] No, no. That's - Why didn't it close all the way? - Because there's a cable in there. - There's hard drives in there too. It just went ka-domp. - Oh crap. I can't run the eight pin here. Ah shoot. It interferes. - [Jake] Oh yeah. - [Linus] Oh balls. - [Jake] You have to - [Linus] Yeah, I see that. - [Jake] I could have told you that. - Aah, well you didn't. This thing is freaking so cool. - The keen IT amongst you we're gonna have a bit of a problem when we go to install our OS because we don't have a display output. This is not an APU. Now, there's a couple of options. We could have built this like the motherboard box and and installed the OS. That probably is the best If you have a Ryzer laying around, you could also just and put the GPU in that way. But if you don't have that, what you probably have So, we're gonna to take our boot drive and just throw it in this test bench acting as our other computer Setup process is pretty easy. Hit install. We're gonna select our Hit okay. Proceed with install. Yes. Ah! It's done. We don't even need that much movie magic. It only took a few minutes. Okay, it says to remove the USB. So, let's just do that. Yeah. Okay, I'll put the drive back in properly with my handy dandy screwdriver. (drilling sound) Oh, there we go. Beauty. Since we did the install we're not gonna immediately get the IP of what the system's gonna get assigned. We're gonna have to go into our router's DHCP reservation list to You can also use tools and you can look for TrueNAS if you don't have that many or if you know the MAC address of the ethernet port on the board, you can actually just It looks like it's booting now. We're in TrueNAS now. So, you're gonna be logging and whatever password You can see, we got our... It's loading. There we go. We got our four core Let's make sure all our If you didn't slide in or one of your SATA cables came loose or something like that. But it looks like we got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and then our 32 gig NVME. Now that we've verified all we can go ahead and set up an array. Now, depending on the hardware you have, what you do here is going to change. If you only have like you might wanna set it up as a mirror. And that basically is If you have anything more you're gonna be moving up two RAID-Z which depending on the amount of drives, you might only be able but there's RAID-Z1, two and three. And those give you one, two, three respective drives worth of Since we have five drives, we but I'm gonna stick with RAID-Z1 'cause that's gonna give 'Cause remember if you you're losing two or three drives worth of capacity respectively. Dev, it's actually recommending But I'm gonna do Z1. Since we have an NVME drive in there, we're also gonna create a cache VDEV and we can just click it This type of cache VDEV acts to expand the RAM cache which is called ARC. So, this is let two ARC. Let's put a name on here. I'm gonna call it Lambo. And look at that 43.65 tebibytes. If you use this disc for anything else, they're getting wiped right now. So make sure you don't We got a Z pool. Look at that. I'm gonna check the Let's see. We got 1, 2, 3, 4, Everything looks to be working. Now, to make this storage your phone, whatever. We're gonna have to It's kinda like a folder but a folder that you can And then we're also gonna That's the protocol that Microsoft uses to share files over the network. It's pretty easy to do that. We'll just click under our Z I'm gonna call it zomba or goomba. ZedFS has a built-in compression just automatically and decompresses anything which depending on which option you select and what you're writing, can actually make your if you have enough CPU. Now with a quad core, hard to say. But I'm just gonna leave it which is very fast. And then we're just gonna because it's gonna be an SMB share. If you're using oh, time machine. You might want Apple specific settings but we're just gonna hit save. And then go to shares, click add. Select the path. Lambo, goomba. And hit save. It's gonna prompt you That's actually like the SMB server. It's not running by default, Actually, I forgot a step here. We need to create a user I think by default it won't just for security reasons. So, we'll add a user. We'll just call it Jake. Jake, and we can set the password to 1234. Cool. Type in our IP again here. And then Jake and 1234. And look at that. Storage. Okay, I'm actually gonna so we can see how much storage. And just like that, 43.4 terabytes. We've got our 2.5 gig unified switch. This thing's pretty sick. We've got our share set I verified that it is and we've got a little test file here. Whooh! 280 megabytes per second. That's sick. And to think that this is still cheaper than an off the shelf NAS and you can slot a 10 gig card in there. You still have the NVME port. You could do anything You could put a 16 core CPU in it and it would still work just as good. You could put VMs on I think this is seriously like server storage things I just wanted to take a now that we've copied something to it. And you can see our compression That means we've saved of this whatever, 11 1/2 Let's say you were to copy and documents that you Like, you're using this as a backup. You could easily expect to save automatically and completely If we even look on this file, Size 10.9 gigabytes. Size on disk 10.7. So, we've saved 200 megabytes It's pretty fricking cool. But not as cool as our sponsor FreshBooks. When building a business it's easy to feel like there And if you're doing all your invoicing and accounting on your own, you're probably spending FreshBooks is built for It's the all-in-one accounting software that saves entrepreneurs and freelancers up to 11 hours a week. That's 11 hours you can serving your customers From building and sending to tracking and managing expenses, to processing online payments, FreshBooks automates and and annoying parts of It's also super easy to get up and running and the award-winning is always available to So, try FreshBooks for free for 30 days, no credit card required and get more time back to So, if you like this video and you like servery, TrueNAS-y stuff, maybe check out the new Delta 5, new vault three build that we just did. That's a pretty good one. You could also maybe check out the video about we're loss some data. (sighs heavily) How we're loss some data. - [David] Did you just lose some words? - I lost some words.