Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. We can all be a little self-absorbed sometimes, or something. Well first let me tell you where the center of the universe actually is before you decide that's where you are. For most of history all of humanity has been We imagined the earth the center of the cosmos until Nicolaus Copernicus shoved us from our pedestal onto a random rocky planet orbiting galaxy. Ever since then, astronomers have embraced we are NOT in a special place in the universe. At least, once you factor out the selection hospitable. And the Copernican principle inspired another of the universe, but the universe doesn't have a center. Once you zoom out far enough, the universe This is called the Cosmological principle. But neither the Copernican principle nor the physics - they're philosophical positions led us astray. I think both must be right - but I don't And it sure would be nice to feel special Today we're going to ask a simple-seeming places. The question is this: If the universe has You might imagine that the center of the universe is the place where the Big Bang happened. The origin of the explosion that created everything. This would be wrong, but it's easy to understand the misconception. Thanks to Edwin Hubble, we know that distant further we look, the faster they're moving. It looks like the Milky Way is at the center poetically named it - a horrendous space kablooie. But the Big Bang isn't an explosion emanating The recession of the galaxies is just as well everywhere. Galaxies appear to be receding due the space Most importantly, this looks the same no matter In this picture the Big Bang isn't something instead it happened everywhere at the same All space was created at that instant. Google "where is the center of the universe", you'll get this basic story for the first And that's because this story is probably But today I want to dig deeper and see what and also ask what it would mean if those assumptions are wrong. But before we mess with the standard narrative, As with much, it starts with Einstein. His general theory of relativity explains to the presence of mass and energy. Explains gravity as the warping of space and General relativity can be used to calculate or the Sun to determine their gravitational It can also give us the gravitational field shape of all of spacetime. It wasn't actually Einstein who worked this The first to solve this was Alexander Friedman bumps - doing the mathematical equivalent into a fine paste and spreading it evenly That gave him equations of motion that described And a shape, defined by something called the also named for those three other guys who This simplification really paid off. For one thing it predicted that the universe or expanding, and that as more than a decade The FLRW metric also predicts that there are determined entirely by one number- the curvature. Depending on whether the average curvature of three shapes- which we call 'closed', The exact shape is determined by the relative The presence of matter increases the curvature the curvature. We can't visualize the center of a geometry In order to do that we need to lose a dimension. Positively curved 3D space is the easiest. First imagine the surface of a sphere. That surface is 2-dimensional. But for a 2-D being living on that surface, The surface is finite, but there's no edge center that's part of the 2-D universe. A closed 3-D universe is like the 3-D surface And just like it's 2-D analog, it's finite If I were to ask a denizen of the surface universe, they couldn't do it. They can't point "down" to the center down. But from our perspective that direction exists. So could it be that there's a higher dimensional Could there be an equivalent of "down" to point to? Not necessarily. Space can have curvature without there being And that's the most straightforward interpretation of the FLRW metric for a closed universe. Those three spatial dimensions just loop back on themselves. But actually, we can sort of give a location for this expanding hypersphere - because at one point we were at that center. So far we've ignored the dimension of time. Our universe is expanding. In the case of the closed universe, that means surface and got bigger. So, very crudely, we can think of the radial It would be more accurate to say that the is represented in the math by the scale factor But it's fun to think of the center of the in time. That means we really CAN point to the location And conveniently, you can point to the past I'm serious, hear me out. You can point at, say, the moon by ensuring intersects would intersect the moon. Of course your wouldn't be pointing at the of the past, because you're aligning your you from the moon, and that light has been traveling one second ago. Now imagine that 2-D dweller points at a random direction. Draw a line in that direction and at the same it intersects. The line loops around the closed universe points in the universe, including the pointed It's the same with our universe - point the Big Bang. And if the universe really is closed, you're occupied the geometrical center of the hypersphere. A lot of this stuff is also true for a flat The 2-D analog of the flat universe is an corresponds to a sort of saddle shape - what on forever. In both of these cases there is no geometrical However you can still point at the Big Bang the line traced from you finger also ends These lines we've been tracing have a name They're the grid that defines the fabric to the paths followed by light. No matter the geometry of our FLRW universe, the past, and end there. In the language of GR, we call this ending Geodesic incompleteness is just a fancy way There is literally no direction that you could if traced backwards, and that's true anywhere We say that the Big Bang is a past, space-like space at t=0 and is in the past of all paths OK, so maybe the location of the Big Bang But can we still say that the Big Bang happened I mean, if all points converged onto the same emerged from that point - does that mean the In the case of the closed universe that's and it approaches a single point at t=0. But what about an infinite universe? The math of the FLWR metric and the Friedman zero, the distance between any two points But at the same time there are infinite points. So did the universe start out pointlike at Well the size of the universe at t=0 is zero infinity - it's the point where the math And that's the nature of singularities - they describe the universe. They probably also represent places where Stand by for our theory of quantum gravity By the way, there are close parallels with We might ask whether the Big Bang is a reverse We might, but we won't. That's a topic worth it's own video - although in the negative as you might think. OK, so we have the state of the current wisdom of its center. But I promised to tell you how this might Remember that Alexander Friedman came up with his solution for the shape of the universe by assuming that matter and energy are evenly He assumed a homogeneous universe and assumed the cosmological principle. But what if he was wrong? It turns out there are ways to make sense galaxies that doesn't require an infinite And you can do it without breaking Einstein's One of the alternative solutions was FLRW metric. Lemaitre asked what the universe might look He sought solutions to the Einstein equation scales. In one of his solutions, matter was distributed with constant density across a spherically symmetric cloud, but beyond that cloud the He found that an observer in a sufficiently would observe an expanding or contracting At around the same time, Richard Tolman made metric. Such a universe would have a center - the center of the cloud, assuming the cloud is I should point out that this doesn't necessarily could still be that our bubble is small on that if you zoom out to many, many, many times evens out smoothly. So you can find a Lemaitre-Tolman universe inside a greater FLRW universe. And there's even a scenario where this might proposes that our universe is just one bubble within an unthinkably colossal region of exponentially accelerating space. Check out our episode on that for that insane-seeming proposition. Long story short: the universe probably doesn't know - the evidence of there being a boundary cosmic horizon. In that case then as far as we know there So go ahead and get right back on that pedestal but no one is ever going to prove that the not at the very center of a very non-Copernican Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. To understand astrophysics, Brilliant believes relativity. Brilliant has a lesson on special relativity to solve. A hands-on approach can guide you through like relativity. It starts out explaining relativity in terms then goes into some puzzles that require changing perspective (like the ball stack bounce), and then goes into the speed of light and To learn more about Brilliant, go to Brilliant.org/Spacetime. Today we're answering questions from the the Proxima system in search of habitable electric charge really is a fundamental property Starting with Proxima. Palindromeordnijap asks whether the massive might be ideal for life due to the rich biodiversity I'm no expert, but I do remember that for likely location for abiogenesis - the origin That seems to have fallen out of favor, with more promising temperature gradients and general chemistries. But even if life didn't start in tidal pools happened that way elsewhere? Relatedly, dmaxcustom asks whether the tidal activity. Tidal squeezing should indeed help keep the on the volcanic moons of Jupiter and Saturn. For a planet that would presumable help drive On Earth, tectonic activity is essential for Life draws carbon from the atmosphere and As the crust is pulled into the hot mantle, activity. Without that recycling Earth would have frozen A hot interior may also have been essential start around geothermal vents or hot springs. So in short those tidal forces on those Proxima planets may make it more likely that there's life. Al H asks what particles and interactions into electromagnetism and the weak force. Well, the big one is that the elementary particles were massless back then due to the absense of the Higgs mechansism. Also, before that split, particles could transfer That means there was not much of a difference and their neutrinos. Just like it makes no sense to distinguish particles. In fact the universe seemed to be made of leptons. When the universe cooled down and the electroweak symmetry was broken, particles were locked in whatever isospin state they happened to be in. They gained different properties depending mass. TheGundeck asks whether chirality depend on it's defined in reference to the momentum For example, if a particle races past you of motion. What happens if you then you accelerate and overtake the particle direction. Does its chirality flip? Does that mean it stops interacting with the The answer is that chirality isn't as simple vector. That spin projection is actually called helicity, frame. But chirality is what we call Lorentz invariant It's only equal to helicity for particles massless particles. Sorry we didn't have time to dig deeper Another time. And back to Proxima for one last comment. Anarchy Antz asks if there's any update Proxima detected by the Breakthrough Listen Yes, there's an update. Radio astronomer Sofia Sheikh found around associated with stars and had radio frequency So it looks like local interferenced. Or in other words, the Proximans realized and injected fake signals to put us off their