As the dust of the battlefield settles, the weapons clashing are replaced by an feast on the thousands of corpses that a silence only interrupted by the occasional cries bodies are pieces of armor, shields, standards, a series of shadows in military gear start to returning survivors. They are specially sent out Speaking of looters, today's video sponsor Incogni internet thieves. Every year, the number and and with it, the risk of your own data getting commercial databases and people search sites data brokers then sell or publish your social security numbers, home addresses, and from scams to identity theft. What Incogni does on your behalf and conducting repeated requests a new record pops up on a data broker site, handling any objections from data brokers Their yearly subscription is especially for as long as you use the service. And with our code "Militum". Click the link in the Claiming victory is one thing, but the aftermath enemy's camp and claiming the spoils; far from battle. Groups of idle soldiers are sent out as For some, every minute means the difference to be found among the myriad of bodies. Every is one soldier less that has to be recruited and retain its experience. The wounded who can walk spot by the army's medical staff or loaded onto where the medici will do their best. Those will at least be taken care of as best as can last for several days and the wounded are able to join the army again. Centurions and casualties and the identities of those fallen While part of the army is busy treating collecting the dead; an extremely important "The general should take thought for the burial using neither the occasion, nor the time, is an act of both piety and reverence toward living. For if the dead are not buried, each of his own body should he have the chance to dead with his own eyes, and indignant at the believing that if he should die, he will Leaving the bodies of the dead without is something the Romans frowned upon, and the dead with a modicum of respect. In times of but the Romans knew very well the medical risks of of time. Therefore, in such situations, and the dead from the rank and file were in large pyres... Roman soldiers had a voluntary towards a tombstone in the event of their comrades back in the fort would make sure to even if no remains are present. Thousands of found continually to this day, detailing but also sometimes their families and status. It the unique people they once belonged to. This one, to a 53 year old centurion named Marcus Caelius Forest. (CIL 13, 08648) Caelius' relatives could Germanicus visited the battlefield years later Of course this all was not the case for Like everything in the Roman period, rank came burials. In the case of generals and high held right after the battle, with the whole army honor sometimes extended to heroes of the battle. centurion Gaius Crastinus who led the charge "When sought for he was found among the on his body and buried it, and erected burial-place of the others". App. BC.2.82. build a war memorial to remember the fallen, like all 4000 individual names of the and special ceremonies would be carried "In honor and memory of the stoutest men who fell But what about the countless wounded on the taken care of, depending on their level of only to be taken prisoner or enslaved, as the Those whose injuries were too severe would be happen to the bodies of those "less civilized" a very different treatment would be offered to they can be very lucrative assets to be ransomed later stages of the Second Punic War, Scipio who had been captured in Hispania. He of course the Numidian prince to the Roman cause. In used in prisoner swaps. Especially shameful for battle of Cannae, when the Senate flat out had surrendered to Hannibal... In other cases, we citizens who had been sold into slavery by repatriation as a peace condition. Unfortunately, who would be mercilessly sold into With the dead and wounded being taken care of and artisans also had their share of work to do, broken equipment needed to be repaired and it is not uncommon to find small bands of soldiers comrades of their weapons and armor. In fact, even trophies for public display, or for emergencies. Rome needed such vast quantities of equipment were displayed as trophies in temples or appearance of that Roman army would surely in a matter of days the entire battlefield equipment worth collecting. Only arrowheads, objects are often discarded because many it's unsurprising why these represent the most while a complete sword or helmet in good have had to stay hidden from not just the army, The collection of the spoils of war in the form key post-battle activity. This, however, was who counted up the loot and made sure because unless explicitly stated, as it lawfully belonged to their general, Soldiers had to give up everything and and evenly distributed among them, normally in large amounts being given to soldiers after mean that soldiers and camp followers didn't TRY Nothing prevented a soldier from looting were around. Footwear, cloaks, weapons, cups were very prized among soldiers. Not but they can fetch a good price in markets. getting his hands on a luxurious saddle or a which could easily be equivalent to a few months them home without being caught and punished. would always leave the most bulky and burdensome items. Polybius comments on the actions of Roman "The Romans, after following up the fugitives to strip the dead and others to collect the enemy's camp. Finding, however, that and considering themselves defrauded of the to find fault with the Aetolians and told their gave up the booty to others. For the present they and spent the next day collecting prisoners and This quote gives us an idea of the soldiers were denied their loot, which On special occasions, the general could reward his complete free rein. This was very good for keeping because the general was obliged to collect and secondly because it could raise even more the unfair distribution of loot. In this case, start looting would often collect the best loot, or healing the wounded would get second hand trigger fights not only between the soldiers, What's most interesting though is where was the collapsed, and mutinous soldiers attacked their their generals be expected to deal with them? video about Roman mutinies. So make sure to making this video possible. If you wish to decide on future videos, please Consider