Let's say 2 people have 2 options and which much of stuff they will get with one another. want, like money. Or points! Everybody likes get. dilemma is really, this number being bigger than this number, and this number being bigger They can pick A or B but they have no control B that option B always gets them more. option 2 is always better. But because of is the worst for the group. And really not Because going option A is worse for the individual, for the group we might call it sharing or It looks like working together to get more Going option B is always better for the individual, like defecting, cheating, or betraying depending gain. will always get more by defecting. multiple times; if they play once, then they scores, the strategy changes. In one off games, defecting gives a higher is doing. and defects at random, or follows a set pattern, Try always cooperating with them? No. Start up cooperation and defection? Doesn't matter. Because here, like in a one-off game, defecting higher payout. on what the other player did, for example: cooperates. Unless their opponent defects. matter what. You know it sort of gets pissed started off cooperating with GRUDGER, or always than always defect. With multiple games there is an opportunity ALWAYS DEFECT isn't the best strategy anymore. In 1980 Robert Axelrod held a tournament where did 200 rounds against each other strategy. strategy 50/50 RANDOM. cooperated with eachother for all 200 rounds, they would both get 200. If one cooperated would get 0 and the other 1000, the highest and forth, like this, they would each get And these are the averaged results of the tit for tat. and from then on it just copies what the other Why did it win? It's a simple strategy, but against defectors. Any strategy against tit gets instantly punished and put into a bad defecting, or even if it tries to go back than it would have if it had just kept cooperating punish, TIT FOR TAT would have been worse So we might say TIT FOR TAT is &quot;retaliating&quot;, it can prevent some losses, and it can disincentive Another thing is, TIT FOR TAT is never the in this situation as much as they can, there is cooperating. But any responsive opponent up here. It's risky to defect. An easy solution to maximize long term mutual cooperation. unless you need to punish someone. with opponents that do it too. like it's being nice, so we could say TIT to be a good trait to have in this tournament, 7 were not. Never the first to defect, but once the other what. Which doesn't really give a great payout. person wants to cooperate again so they can of punishment GRUDGER's gives, hurts the punisher OK, so we could say TIT FOR TAT is forgiving, cooperation again. And since it's just copying, does TIT FOR TAT. for tat so good in this tournament. option. It's retaliating, it disincentives it will allow getting back to cooperation. ever beat an opponent. It can either tie. opponent defects in the very last round where The opposite is true for ALWAYS DEFECT, it tried cooperating. But that doesn't matter. they got, not their relative score to any But TIT FOR TAT can run into problems though. tat, but sometimes it tries defecting. Against cheated. Hey you cheated. Hey YOU cheated. Then when it tries defecting again it becomes There were a few strategies that could have One was called FORGIVING TIT FOR TAT, or TIT before it retaliates. It would have prevented TAT and won the tournament. than it lost letting itself be taken advantage Most strategies trying to improve tit for to find a way to capitalize on defection. punishing every defection ended up being better Later Axelrod held a second tournament. This didn't do a set 200 rounds. That way nobody See the footnotes below. TIT FOR TAT was entered, regular TIT FOR TAT FORGIVING TIT FOR TAT didn't win because people A strategy called TESTER starts out cooperating player reacts. If the opponent punishes, it then just becomes tit for tat for the rest like against TIT FOR TAT. But against easygoing can learn that it's able take advantage of At least in this context Let's say we're in a reproduction situation. resources that could be used for reproduction. it will reproduce more and we'll put more tournament. If they get fewer points like the next generation. reproduced well and followed upward arcs like downward trends and went extinct. Exploitative start but as its victims &quot;went extinct&quot;, its strategies were ones that could work well nice or otherwise cooperative strategies. to reproduce. this, but it's a world of ALWAYS DEFECTORs. rules. Can a &quot;nice&quot; mutation establish itself? of ALWAYS DEFECTORS? If it was just one individual, As a nice strategy it's constantly getting The natives get better scores with one another has nobody to cooperate with and just comes But if there were a couple TIT FOR TATS, then they lose to the defectors like they do in end up taking over. for a non-nice strategy to invade TIT FOR non-nice strategy is going to get a lower get with other TIT FOR TATs. Here the non-nice be the worst reproducers. all day. nice strategies accidentally defect or look defection echo problems and then variations Or what if the players were able to learn seem, for example, cooperation spreading to get more from it. For purely self-interested players, like reproducing cooperative; being nice and forgiving. If And this would be beside an &quot;inclusive fitness sort of thing. reproduction situations, it can invade other But the way TIT FOR TAT works, it's not factoring gaining. It has no foresight and almost no So IF situations LIKE these were some part the gauntlet of time to still exist today, like situations. think about themselves or reproduction, to They could just learn or have instinct to to retaliate. They could even just go &quot;I'm bur bur&quot;. Those actions are where the reproductive have to only be nice as a part of some sort Video's over now Oh one more thing, ThisPlace was brought to you today by, the letter G. For 10% off your first order of the letter G enter promo code thisplace at checkout