This is a Japanese honeybee hive. It's hot, so I'm actively blowing air. At the top is the honey storage area, where a lot of honey is stored. The lower 1/3 of the tree is the nursery area, where the larvae and pupae live. The observation window allows us to get a realistic view of the bees. Build a Japanese honey bee heavy box hive with observation window. Part 1, Making the hive frame. Today we're going to make a succession box for a Japanese honeybee hive. Well, it's just a square box like this one, but... I think a square box is one of the most basic forms of manufacturing, but it is surprisingly difficult to make. If you make it just right, it will shake and shake and shake, and you may not be able to get the shape that you want... I'd like to make the corners at 90 degrees properly as per the basics. Now, I'm going to combine this short board and this long board to make a square frame. The inside dimension is 23 centimeters. I think this is the best size. You might think that if the inner diameter is too large, it will be good for collecting a lot of honey, but if you are too greedy When the temperature gets too high, or when the nest becomes soft, the nest will fall down with a stone, and you will be left with a nest that is too soft. If you have a hive that is too high, the hive will fall down and the bees will run away. 23cm is the best in my experience. I think it's a good balance of both: you get a certain amount of food and the nest doesn't fall out easily. So, you might think that I should just go ahead and hit more and more screws with this, but You might think that you can just go ahead and screw in more and more screws, but we want to make sure that we get the dimensions right... I'll use a jig like this. So, basically, there's a back and a front of the tree. We'll turn the back of the tree out. The back of the tree is this wood grain, the annual rings. The center side of these annual rings is called the back of the wood, and this side is the front and this side is the back. Basically, this is how the wood warps when it's humid. That makes it easier for the box to keep its shape, and it's surprisingly difficult to resist the force of opening outward. It's very difficult to resist the outward force. Well, I don't know how effective that is in practice, but that's basically how we build our boxes. Now, the center side is the wood backing, and the outside... Back of the tree to the outside... Align the corners. Use another jig. It's a slim type of 45 mm course thread. With this slim type, there is no need to drill the bottom hole. It also won't crack the wood, which is good enough for me. If you align the back of the wood properly, the slim screws will be able to resist the force of floating. It's not easy to dribble a hole, and it takes a lot of time, so I'd rather do it in one shot. Now we have an exact frame of the square. Here's where I'm driving the screws. You don't need to drive the screws in the middle. The reason for this is that as the honey builds up, there's a lot of moisture on the inside here. When moisture is added to the inside of the wood, it causes the wood to warp, so no matter how much you turn the back of the wood outward, the wood will warp even more. So in order to stop that, you still want to focus on screwing on the outside. The middle is always going to be in contact, I think. Basically, the outside is going to float, so we're going to focus on screwing the outside. This is a slim screw, so it's thin like this, but just focus on the outside and you'll be fine. It's easy because you don't have to drill a pre-drilled hole. Now we can make more and more numbers. So, it's a square frame that I screwed in place. The width of the board is about 1mm... It's a standard product, but there is a certain amount of variation, so... I'll adjust it. The adjustment is done and the frame is ready. If there is a window in between, you can open the window from time to time and observe. If you can observe and keep track of the condition of the nest, you will know what action to take next. So it is better to have a window. You need them. So, there are many ways to make a window, but it's quite tedious, so I'll use the easiest way.