Hallelujah, may peace be with all the brothers and sisters. This morning, the topic for our sermon is &quot;Two Words That Change Lives&quot;. Everyone wants to have a better life and a different life. But how can we have a better life? Most people think maybe I should have more money, bigger houses and nicer holidays. Or maybe I should go to make a surgery to make myself more beautiful. But actually, a better life doesn't come with that. A better life comes with a change of thinking and heart. So, it's called a life changing experience. But how can a life change? You must change thinking. And where does the change come from? It usually changes from somebody speak to you. If you hear a good advice, a good word, your life will change in the positive direction. But if you hear a bad advice, your life will also be ruined. This morning, we would like to share a story, a very remarkable and interesting story of how one's life, God changed completely. He already has a very successful life, but not a perfect life. But he still needs to have change. And who gave him this advice? What is this advice? Let's turn to 2 Kings 2 Kings 5 2 Kings 5:1 2 Kings 5:1 1 &quot;Now Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great and honorable man in the eyes of his master, because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was also a mighty man of valor, but a leper.&quot; This is a profile introduction of someone living a very successful life. His name is called Naaman. First of all, what was his nationality? He was not an Israelite. He belongs to the kingdom of Aram. In today's geography, it is the country of Syria. You know, Canada has accepted a lot of Syrian refugees. In ancient times, it was called Aram. And this country has been always at war with Israel. And their army has a very successful general. And his name is called Naaman. In today's term, this Naaman was not just any soldier, but he was a five-star general. Or you can call him the defense department head. Under the king, he was very highly regarded. He was a mighty warrior and he knew how to lead a battle. And then he was liked by the king. So, can you imagine a person like this, what did he lack? Successful career. Good family. And then, everybody respected him. He probably also had houses and some money. So, on the surface, he looked like he had everything; he lived a happy life. But here describes that, &quot;but he has leprosy.&quot; Then, we must know what is leprosy. Leprosy was an incurable disease. And if you contracted leprosy, your skin will deteriorate, and you'll be deformed. Of course, you feel itchy, you feel pain, you have redness. And then, you'll be spreading the disease to someone near you. So, you have to be very careful. And it will only get worse, it will not get better. It started from a little bit, a small area on the skin to spread to the whole body over time. So, that is called leprosy. So, that's why if you look at verse one, it really painted a two-sided picture of one person's life. When other people look at him, they would say, &quot;Wow, I want to be like him.&quot; But he, himself, knows that his life is not good, and only he knows what he is suffering. This is human life. You can look at two perspectives. Sometimes you open the newspaper. Sometimes you think that, &quot;How good would that be if I am like him.&quot; &quot;Wow, he is so rich; he is a billionaire.&quot; What good it is if I am the president, I am the prime minister? What good it is if I am a sports star, if I am an entertainment star? Everybody looks at the surface. Just like people put on a nice garment, nice fashion. If you didn't know what is lying underneath the skin. You can imagine, Naaman, he was a general. Every day he wears a very good-looking military uniform. He must be also very high in stature and muscular in size. But under all this garment, it was rotten skin and a spreading disease. And only he knows how he feels. Today, the society is just like this. Everyone is admiring the successful people, the rich people, the smart people, the good-looking people. But under that skin or surface, the Bible tells us, the sin controls the whole world. It controls the heart of every man. And that's why under the sinful influence of the world, everybody is hurting and very difficult experiences. Let's turn to Leviticus. Leviticus 13 Leviticus 13 Leviticus 13:45. Leviticus 13:45-46. 45 "Now the leper on whom the sore is, his clothes shall be torn and his head bare; and he shall cover his mustache, and cry, 'Unclean! Unclean!'&quot; 46 &quot;He shall be unclean. All the days he has the sore he shall be unclean. He is unclean, and he shall dwell alone; his dwelling shall be outside the camp.&quot; You can look at this. This is the fate, this is the life of a leper. It's getting bigger and bigger. From one spot, it spreads to the whole body. Sin is also like this. You start with just one thought, and then, it becomes a small action. And then, you are changing your habit. And then, your character starts to change. You know that you weren't like that before, but you are getting worse. And then here says, for a leper, he just looks terrible, he has hair everywhere, and his face...he just doesn't look fine. Now, maybe we don't have skin disease like a leper, but if a person, the heart is very heavy, very burdened, very hurt, even from the eyes, you look at a person's eyes, you realize that there's something different because the heart is too heavy. And then, you have to cry out, &quot;Unclean! Unclean!&quot; He knows that he, himself, is not clean. And the person who lives in sin, actually he knows, he is ashamed but he cannot tell other people. And at the end, the Bible says, he has to live outside by himself. This society is so lonely nowadays. Everybody has a nice phone, have a computer. But they are hiding themselves and using those media instead of talking to other people. Why do people use alcohol, why do people use drugs? And also, why are people addicted to pornography? Because people's hearts are very lonely nowadays. They cannot come out of it. Here, just like leprosy, you are living outside the camp. But overall, on the surface, he looks very okay. Everybody admires him, but only he, himself, knows he is not okay. So, Naaman was such a person. So, after a description like this, do you want to be like Naaman? Do you want to own everything, respected by everybody, but carry leprosy? Life always has something that we feel hurt, that we cannot change by ourselves. But he didn't know how to change himself. Now, let's read on. Come back to 2 Kings 5:2 2 Kings 5:2-3 2 &quot;And the Syrians had gone out on raids, and had brought back captive a young girl from the land of Israel. She waited on Naaman's wife.&quot; 3 &quot;Then she said to her mistress, "If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria! For he would heal him of his leprosy." That is the first sentence and the first thing of the little girl that changed Naaman's life. We can call it a life changing words of testimony. Now, what did she say? Who is she, who is this little girl? She was living in Israel, but because Aram's army came and captured her and other people and brought them as captives to Aram. We have little girls sitting here in the chapel today this morning. Very cute, and they are taking Bible notes and listening very carefully. They are very small. Can you imagine if you have a little girl at home, your girl got captured to somewhere and you never see them again. Or if you are a little girl, you lose your parents, maybe your parents got killed and you are carried away to serve a foreigner. But this little girl, instead of hating the master or hating everybody else. Verse 3 says, &quot;She told her mistress.&quot; &quot;What if my master can go to Samaria and see the prophet, he will be healed.&quot; Now, if the little girl didn't say anything, then the story will not happen at the end. So, this little girl doesn't even carry a name. She is very, very low, there's no status. She was a slave to the Arameans. But when she spoke a small word of testimony, it changed the life of the five-star general. So, the first thing that can change a person's life is testifying for the mighty power of God. Now, what did she say? She said, &quot;If my master would go to see the prophet, he'll get healed.&quot; What kind of words can change people's lives? What made her make this testimony? Let's think about this. What is the reason? It must be love. If she doesn't have love in her heart, she would never testify like this. I think for an adult, if you were captured by someone, you'd hate that person so much. Maybe every day you'd pray that he'll die, so that I can go home. Or you look at his skin disease, you say that, &quot;Oh, I pray that it can get worse because he is a bad person.&quot; But for this little girl, she was so pure in her heart. She doesn't have the thinking of whether you are an enemy or not; she looks at this general as a person. We, adults, we always carry some kind of prejudice. Oh, that country, I don't like. My country's people are good people, that country's people are bad people. This skin color is the same as mine, I like them. Oh, that skin color is different, umn, may not be good. We always have prejudice. That's why when we look at people, we are lacking of love. That's why if we are lacking of love, we don't want to change their lives, we don't want to share testimony. But Lord Jesus Christ gave us a good example just like this little girl. Let's turn to Mark 1 Mark 1:40 Mark 1:40-41. 40 &quot;Now a leper came to Him, imploring Him, kneeling down to Him and saying to Him, "If You are willing, You can make me clean." 41 &quot;Then Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched out His hand and touched him, and said to him, "I am willing; be cleansed." This is another example of leprosy but he came to Lord Jesus Christ. When he came to see Jesus, he came at a distance because he couldn't come too close, and he bowed down. &quot;If you are willing, you can make me clean.&quot; Now, if you see someone with a contagious disease, what will happen? If you see someone sneezing so hard, coughing so hard, depends on who that person is, right? But usually, you just turn away, &quot;Ok, don't get too close.&quot; &quot;I don't want to share your germs.&quot; Maybe you put on a mask. In Taiwan, everybody puts on a mask in public places. In Canada less people do this. So, if you put on a mask, maybe you are from Taiwan or China. We are so afraid to catch the 'bug' from other people. Well, Jesus Christ, when he saw this leper, he's not thinking about will He be affected? Mark 1:41. Here says, Jesus has compassion in His heart. And that is the exact motive to help Jesus to help this person. Let me give an example. If you go to the hospital, there are so many sick people there, right? You see other sick people; you'll not have many feelings. But when you go to the person you want to visit, oh, suddenly your heart is filled with compassion. You wish that he'll get better. The heart is what makes the difference. So, why the little girl would testify to Naaman? Because she is thinking my master is suffering every single day. I wish him to be well and doing better. Even though he is my enemy, and maybe his army will destroy my country, but I still want him to be healed. This kind of love comes from God. Overlooking race, boundary, culture, and color of skin. So, today if you have compassion in your heart, you will testify to change other people's lives. So, she gave advice, &quot;If my master goes to see the prophet in Samaria, he'll get healed.&quot; So, this is also a testimony of faith. Can you imagine if she said it, like this, if Naaman didn't get healed, what will happen to her? You may think about this, right? Naaman made the trip to Israel, and if he didn't get healed, what will happen? Will I be in trouble? Will my master execute me, cut my head? Or put me in the prison? For this little girl, there is no doubt that God will heal him. This is called faith. Even before Naaman went, she knows that he'll be healed. Let's turn to Mark 11 Mark 11 Mark 11 Mark 11:24 Mark 11:24. 24 &quot;Therefore I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you will have them.&quot; This is what makes someone's testimony or prayer become effective and powerful. Do you believe that if you rely on the Lord, if you go and ask for help, if you look for the prophet, your problem will be solved? Or when you tell other people to go for Lord Jesus Christ, will you say, &quot;Oh, I don't know, you can try.&quot; &quot;I don't have guarantee, if it doesn't work, don't come to me.&quot; Sometimes we say this to keep ourselves safe. This is what in the commercial, business world do, right? But in testimony, if you want to testify for Lord Jesus Christ, learn from this little girl. If you have the faith, if you go, you'll be healed. I always remember I hear a testimony like this. Many, many years ago, in Taiwan, there's a deacon who was a doctor. And then, when people come to him, looking for treatment, some sicknesses he can heal, but some sicknesses are so difficult. And then, the patient always is very sad and hopeless when situation doesn't improve. But this doctor, this brother told the patient, let me recommend you to another doctor. He is even better than me. Oh, the patient's eyes got bigger. And then, he said, &quot;Wait a bit, this doctor doesn't even charge you.&quot; &quot;Oh? There's a better doctor and he doesn't charge? Where is it, you must tell me the number and the address, let me go to him.&quot; And then, the patient asked, &quot;Please, give me the information.&quot; &quot;No, no, not just any doctor, it's God in heaven, the creator.&quot; &quot;You have to go to the True Jesus Church.&quot; Whatever your problem is, you go to church and pray to God, God will help you.&quot; Because that doctor testified for Lord Jesus Christ, so many people received wonderful healing and miraculous grace from Lord Jesus Christ. But to testify, you have to have love. If you don't have love, you'll not bother to say anything. If you don't have faith, you'll not say it so surely. So, this little girl had faith, had love to testify. And we know that testimony changed the course of life for Naaman. So, Naaman decided, &quot;Ok, I must go.&quot; He was a very special person. And I think that because he had no other options. Let's try this. He will not sit at home and wait for the problem to get worse. He wanted to do something. Every one of us has problems. But we always stop at the point that, &quot;Oh I just have the problem, but I don't want to do anything about it.&quot; Isn't it? It's us. Ah, and then, you complain, sad, this and that. You hear the advice, but you say, &quot;Oh, it's so difficult.&quot; But Naaman was not a person like this. He got a problem. He got an advice. And he wanted to do something about it. And for Naaman to go to Israel to seek help from a prophet was not easy. But he made the journey. But this is not the end of the story, the difficult part just began. Let's turn back to 2 Kings 5. 2 Kings 5. 2 Kings 5:8-9. 8 &quot;So it was, when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, "Why have you torn your clothes? Please let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel." 9 &quot;Then Naaman went with his horses and chariot, and he stood at the door of Elisha's house.&quot; Naaman made the journey with his chariot and all his convoy arrived in Israel. And then, he arrived at the house of the prophet; Elisha's house. Now, he expected healing. But what treatment did he get? 2 Kings 5:10 10 &quot;And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, "Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored to you, and you shall be clean." Now, what he got was not even directly a handshake or seeing the prophet face to face. You know, Elisha didn't even bother to come out to see him. And then, just through a servant to convey the message. &quot;Go to the Jordan river, dip yourself seven times.&quot; &quot;Your skin will be healed totally.&quot; Now, this is the word of God, but sometimes the word of God is so hard to swallow. It sounds very easy but difficult to do. But why? Let's see why? 2 Kings 5:11-12. 11 &quot;But Naaman became furious, and went away and said, "Indeed, I said to myself, 'He will surely come out to me, and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God, and wave his hand over the place, and heal the leprosy.' &quot; 12 &quot;Are not the Abanah and the Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean?" So he turned and went away in a rage. &quot; Now, Naaman was really turning away. He did not want to do God's word. Why? Because he was very, very angry. Now, you can ask yourself, when was the last time you got very angry? I think for us, every day we get very angry, some of us. Shout with the husband, shout with the children, shout with everybody. Especially if you are in a high position. If you are a teacher in school, or a boss. You always shout with people; you always give instructions. This Naaman, he was the commander in chief. Now, he got really angry. We know military people; the temper is very strong usually. But now he's very angry. Now, why was he angry? What was the reason? Because his ego, his pride was hurt. He even said it. He thought that this prophet Elisha should have come out. He thought, &quot;He should come out to meet me.&quot; &quot;I came all the way to see you, you don't even come out of the house, what does this mean?&quot; Can you imagine if you travel so far to see a friend, you go to his house, he doesn't even come out to see you, he talks to you through the intercom. How do you feel? No respect, right? Usually we are angry because we are offended, that means, you lose face and your ego is hurt. Actually, that's exactly what God wanted to change in Naaman before God can heal him. Because Naaman came with pride to God. He thought he is a general. A country that defeated Israel. &quot;I want you to heal me.&quot; But for the prophet, he didn't even want to see Naaman. God wanted to change Naaman's pride first. Brothers and sisters, if you want God to help you, what do you need to put down? The biggest thing that's stopping us from receiving God's grace, actually, is ourselves. Look at the pride of Naaman. When you have pride, what will come out? You will think that God will do the way that I think God should do it. Look at 2 Kings 5:11. &quot;I was thinking that he must come out and then stand there and pray and waving above the place.&quot; This is exactly our problem. Sometimes we play God. We play the role of God. God should have done this. God should have fixed him. God should have punished him. So that he knows and he'll come to me and repent. We play God; we tell God what to do. And that's why your problem is still coming back to you. No, God doesn't use your way. God has His way. But when a person has pride, he doesn't want to listen. He was thinking, &quot;My country even have better rivers.&quot; Is it true? Actually, it's true. Because Aram is in the North. North has mountains. And closer to the source of the rivers. And then, closer to the source, to the mountains, the water is clearer. Falls down to the South, more people use it, the water is worse. He thought that, &quot;My country has better water.&quot; Why should I bother to come here? And overlooked and despised by the prophet. Now, if you were Naaman, would you be angry? We don't blame him to be angry, I think, we'll be even angrier, right? Maybe we'll bring the knife out and destroy his house. But, another word that changes life. Another word that changed his life. Let's look at 2 Kings 5:13. 13 &quot;And his servants came near and spoke to him, and said, "My father, if the prophet had told you to do something great, would you not have done it? How much more then, when he says to you, 'Wash, and be clean'?" Now, this is another word, another saying that changed Naaman's life and subsided his anger and made him think differently. We can say this is the words of very soft, very gentle counseling. This was spoken by a servant, we don't even know his name just like the little girl. He was very humble. He said, &quot;Oh, my father.&quot; &quot;If the prophet told you to do something big and more difficult, won't you do it?&quot; &quot;What about this small thing?&quot; And suddenly, this is just like a rod and brought and just striking his head and let him think one more time. It is true. If the prophet told him to bring all the money, he'll bring, right? But now, he didn't even ask for money. If the prophet told him to go to the highest mountain and come back, he would go. And if he told him to go to the deepest river, go inside the water, he will go. But now, the prophet only told me to do something so simple. Why don't I do it? Wow, this is totally changing his perspective. Sometimes we need other people to remind us. We have ego. We have pride. We are stubborn. We love to save face. Just because of our own feeling, it blinded us. But God's word is actually so simple, but you have to humble yourself to do it. But this servant, so gently, was just asking a question, &quot;You've come all the way, you want to be clean, right?&quot; &quot;And now, a simple thing, just dip in the water.&quot; &quot;Why don't you do it?&quot; So, this is the second thing that changed his life. A gentle, a humble but very persuasive changing advice. Next time if you really want to help someone, you don't shout at that person. Maybe your children. Maybe your spouse. You don't try to and then shout and repeat ten times every day. Or you don't have to show him that you are very angry so that he must listen to you. If you can change it, guide him to change his perspective. What about try the other way, change it. You make the decision. This is counseling. Thank God, Naaman took the advice. And then, let's read 2 Kings 5:14. 14 &quot;So he went down and dipped seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God; and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.&quot; Now, by obeying the word of the prophet, his leprosy got healed. Now, no other ways. Now, when we read this story, we may think that it's very easy to go down to the water. But for you may be easy, for Naaman, it wasn't easy. Some people don't like to go to swimming pool. Some people love swimming, they go everyday, but some people hate going there. Why people don't like swimming? Part of the reason is because they don't like other people to see their bodies in the swimsuit. Maybe they are shy. Maybe their bodies, they have low self-esteem. Maybe they have skin disease, so that people don't want to look at them. But for Naaman to go down to the river, remember, what did Naaman have? What did he have? Leprosy. When he put on the clothes, nobody can see it clearly. But now, he has to go down to the water to bathe. What does it mean? Outer garment removed. Inner garment removed. Almost naked. Everybody could see my body. And then, how many people were there in the Jordan River? Must be some people trying to see something, right? But Naaman didn't care right now. I want healing. I want my problem solved. I want God to help me. I don't care how people look at me. I don't want to think about other perspectives. I just want to be healed. This is called deny yourself. That's what Lord Jesus Christ tells us. If you want to follow me, you have to deny yourself. Let's turn to Matthew 16 Matthew 16:24 Matthew 16:24 24 &quot;Then Jesus said to His disciples, "If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me.&quot; When we read this, we always emphasize on, &quot;Carry your cross, follow Jesus.&quot; No, don't even think about bringing your cross first. You have to think about denying yourself. Yourself is your biggest enemy. Why you cannot follow God's way? Because of your pride, saving your face, you want to hide yourself, and then you think, you feel, you want, you wish. That's why you cannot follow Christ. Before you take the cross, deny yourself. Just like Naaman, &quot;I don't care now.&quot; &quot;I just want to be healed.&quot; &quot;You look at me, you laugh at me, I don't care.&quot; And he went down one time, two times, three times, until the sixth time. Six times, nothing happened. not only until the seventh time, Think about if you were Naaman, you did it six times already, it didn't get better. It didn't get better. Do you want to do it the seventh time? You may think, &quot;I want to go home.&quot; But he did it all seven times, total complete obedience. And then, he was healed totally. So, this is a very important event that reminds us. If you want salvation, sometimes we think salvation is oh, in the future, we go to heaven. Yes, this is very important, but if you want changing of life and redemption about your own problem right now, you still have to deny yourself. Totally listen and obey Lord Jesus Christ. That is very difficult. but it's not impossible. With God's help, it is possible. I always remember a testimony. When I was in Calgary, there was a truth seeker. He came to True Jesus Church; he came to our church. He studied the Truth. Wow, everything is according to the Bible, he cannot say anything. Sabbath, Holy Spirit, Holy Communion, everything. And then, he looked at baptism. Then he asked a question. He said, &quot;Pastor&quot;. &quot;I've been baptized in other churches, I was looking for the Truth all my life.&quot; &quot;I was baptized six times already.&quot; &quot;So, do I still have to do it one more time?&quot; Because he thinks he was baptized so many times already. And the pastor replied, &quot;If what you did receive was totally according to the Bible,&quot; &quot;Of course, you don't have to get baptized again.&quot; &quot;But if what you've received before was not totally according to the Truth, then you have to think yourself.&quot; &quot;Do you want to deny yourself and totally obey the Truth?&quot; He said, &quot;Okay, I know what to do now.&quot; And then, he applied and signed the form. Then gave it back to the church council member, &quot;I've made up my mind; I will totally follow the Lord.&quot; &quot;This is the last time I am getting baptism in my life.&quot; Because he wanted to follow everything in the Bible. So, this morning, through the message of Naaman, two words that changed his life. First, it's the testimony of the little girl through love and faith. And then, when Naaman was stuck in his anger, in his very rage, but another servant counseled him and let him change his perspective. So Naaman had faith to do what God told him to do. Now, in your life, do you want to change? Do you hear these two kinds of words? Let's sing hymn. Hymn 499.