(dramatic pastoral music) - [Cowboy] We'll split up here. - When you see Hardin, give - Yeah, take care of Fletcher, too. - Sure, we'll bring you back - Yeah. See you at the cabin. (dramatic music) Johnny, as long as we're here, pick us up some fresh Bentley, cover me until I get inside. (tense music) Sign the payroll All we do is sign the payroll All we do is sign the payroll And we haven't got a red cent yet - [Payroll Signer] (laughs) when you hear the bugle in the morning. (tense music) - What do you want? (dishes clatter) (dramatic music) - [Ben] Don't try it. That's better. Anybody else around? - No. - [Ben] You pray it stays that way. - There won't be anybody. We were just getting ready to close up. You're Ben Thompson, aren't you? - I'll do the asking. What's your name, friend? - Holly, that's my wife. What do you want here, anyway? - This may take a while. Sit down over there by - Would it hurt so much - There's a couple of Clay Hardin and Mark Fletcher. (softly dramatic music) I spent six years in on account of them. I figure to even things. - For a man that's trying Thompson, you're sure not Somebody's bound to see you in here, and that means Hardin and - That's the point. I'm counting on them thinking this is gonna be a real easy touch. They might try to take me without a fight. (door clicks) (tense music) (dishes clatter) - Looks like he's catching up on some of his sleep the hard way. - What about the street, how does it look? - Just like you figured. Shouldn't be long now. (tense music) - What are you gonna do to us? - Well now, that depends, doesn't it? (tense music) - It's him all right, I saw him through the window. He's got a gun on Holly - All right, Davey, you go on home. We'll take care of it. You won't need that, I told you, I want Thompson alive, and, once he sees you, he's - That's not the real - You got a good job waiting and I'm not gonna let you risk your neck now even if you wanted. - Well, maybe that white collar job doesn't seem so important right now. - Look, you said yourself taking him alone, so let's forget it. - But that was before he You can't take him now without a fight, and I intend to be there when it starts. - Not this trip, Clay. I can't take a chance on and gunning Holly and his wife. - Don't be a fool, Mark. You don't know Thompson like I do. He's sure to have at least one gunslinger with him like he pulled on You aren't gonna be able - All right, you cover the corral. If anybody's with they'll be trying to pick and you can stop them there, I don't want a fight unless (tense music) (horse whinnies) (tense music) (dramatic music) (shotgun booms) (knife thunks) (exciting music) (guns bang) (exciting music) (gun bangs) - Clay! He got Fletcher. (somber music) - Be better not to look, Clay. - He was my friend. - Wasn't a thing I could do. That shotgun just - Yeah. (somber music) (hooves clomp) - [Man In Doorway] Where's Johnny? - He's dead. - What happened? - We nailed Fletcher. Never got a chance with Hardin. Johnny got it on the way out. - Yeah, everything turned out just great. - [Ben] Think we should've hung around and got Hardin, is that it? If we had, chances are we - What's the difference? The way things stand Hardin's gonna be tailing us all the way to Boot Hill and back. - Not the way I got it figured. When I was buying those I heard a lot of talk about Hardin. Word in the capital is he's gonna be the new Indian Commissioner. You think he's gonna throw over a soft job like that to come after us? - I don't plan on staying If we had any sense, we'd be on our way to California tonight. - We'll clear out for Right now, we got a good thing worked out with Delgadito and his Apaches. They're gonna pay plenty But if you're worried about anything and you wanna pull out, - Maybe I'll do just that. No hard feelings. - No hard feelings. - [Cowboy] He's getting How come you're letting - We'll be moving out soon. When you know you're gonna it costs nothing to be polite. (gentle music) - Then you won't change your mind? - No. - You're a fool, Clay. - I was a fool to let Mark Fletcher walk down that street alone, - You know perfectly well what I mean. Fletcher was killed doing How can you feel you're to blame? - As long as Ben Thompson I can't feel any other way. - Can't, or won't? - Either one, it adds up the same. - Not to me. Father and I have pulled a arranging for the kind of which means living like and now you're going to walk out on it. - Maybe I'm doing you a favor, Aletha, and you don't even know it. - It doesn't have to be this way, Clay. You don't have to be the Why, for all we know, some other marshal may have already caught him. He may even be dead by now. - Maybe. When I find out, we'll talk about it then. - I don't know how I could have ever thought of marrying you. Why, you're nothing but - When you get right down to it, Aletha, I guess we're all pretty - Well, there's one you may be leaving this but I'll guarantee you that you won't be one when you get back. (gentle music) - How are you? (gentle music) - Say, wonder if you've - No. - No. (gentle music) - Ho! Ease off, Sam. Howdy! - How are you? - Nothing wrong up here, I hope. Well, we outran a bunch of Well, they won't be in a What can I do for you? - Tell me, when's the last - Yes, sir, those braves didn't they, Sam? - Yeah. - Well, that's the way it goes, Marshal. Company just put this rig out on the line. They ain't gonna like it, all Hmm, seen this fella before. You should see them holes back there. Right through a new bunch of underwear. Where'd we see this fella before, Sam? Never do forget a face. Least ways, not often. - It's all right, take your time. I got all day. - Don't rush me, Mister, let me think. - Say, how about a refill? - That's it. Give him some water at Dry Creek Crossing a few days back just before What's the matter with you, Sam? Don't you remember nothing? - I remember that looker - Hmm, pretty thing, wasn't she? - A woman? You sure? - Never do forget a face, - How about the water? - Help yourself. Gabby cuss, ain't he? - Sure is. Move along, move along! Move, you four-legged (gentle music) (foreboding music) (tense music) (snake rattles) - Hey there! Here, quick, quick! (snake rattles) Cut him loose. That rawhide's almost tight. (snake rattles) Hurry, cut him loose! Hurry! - There's plenty of time. (snake rattles) - What are you waiting for? (snake rattles) - Please, Marshal, cut me loose. This rawhide's drawing up. - Let's have a little powwow, Bentley. - Well then kill it, for - Might be easier than a shotgun. - It wasn't me, it was Thompson that triggered that Marshal. - You didn't try to stop him now, did you? - I couldn't. (snake rattles) Marshal, don't leave me. No, no! I'm pulling up. - You badge-holders are worse than snakes! - You stay out of this unless you wanna be back in that tree. (snake rattles) - I'll do anything, just cut me loose! (snake rattles) - All right, where's Ben Thompson? - He's headed for Calexico Marshal, Marshal, I'm pulling up. (snake rattles) Oh, cut me loose, Marshal, I'm pulling up, I'm pulling (snake rattles) (gun bangs) - You'll be all right. Let's get the blood going. - All right, drink up. One apiece. The girl first! Hurry it up, that shot will probably bring every Apache in the territory. (dramatic, exciting music) - You didn't have to do that! - Get on your feet, we're moving out. No more talk out of you. (soft music) What do they call you? - Abby. - Abby. Well, I'm Clay Hardin, climb aboard. - I'll walk. - You got a hat? - No. - Here, use this one. - I don't need one. - Suit yourself. This way. (quietly dramatic music) Get going. Go on. (quietly dramatic music) All right, you better drink up. You, too. (soft music) (exciting music) (gun bangs) Whoa, whoa! Ho, ho! Come down now. (hand smacks) The buzzards would have Come on, climb up. - I don't need any help. (light music) - It's about five miles so you better hold onto me. (pastoral music) (tense music) - I guess we're still riding together. - Yeah, looks that way, doesn't it? (pastoral music) - I don't see anything. - Well, that's the idea. I've used this place before. Come on. - Wait a minute. A mountain goat couldn't get up there. - All right, you stay here. Be here in the morning, maybe. (soft music) (dramatic music) Coffee. Watch the light from the fire. - What do you think I am? - Coffee. - It's not very hot. Do you want me to heat it? - Don't talk about it, just pour it. (Abby laughs) - Good, huh? (laughs) I don't understand. What makes you tick? I've known plenty of men before. I knew what most of them wanted, too. - You call Bentley a man? - He happened to be going my way, toward Calexico in California, until he had a fight with Thompson. Now Bentley's gone, thanks to you, but California's still there. That's all I need for a fresh start. - I imagine you've had - You think that tin badge makes you some sort of god, don't you? What would you know about filthy hands pawing at you all the time, or having to move on every Why don't you say something? (romantic music) - You'll do all right in California. Go on to bed. (Abby pants) (Clay laughs) - What are you laughing at? - Oh, nothing, just the way you look. (gun bangs) (tense music) (hooves clomp) - What are you trying to - Get back in those rocks. Go on. (exciting music) (guns bang) (Apaches shout) (light music) - Morning, ma'am, sorry Well, much obliged, Hardin. I heard you were around - Getting so even the Arizona - Those red sticks jumped me just about the time I Didn't even have time to pick up my camp. Never thought they'd come They've been chasing me for about an hour. Doing a pretty good job til you came along with that rifle. - Reb, you always did talk too much. Abby, this is Reb Carleton. - Morning. - Roll up, and make sure that fire's out. We'll move out of here before they come back with their friends. - Without breakfast? - Without breakfast. Give her a hand. I'll see if I can catch We've been riding double. - Oh. You're kinda asking - I didn't ask for it, it just happened. - Well, it wasn't my fault. - That a shotgun? - Yeah. - Here, let me help you with that. - Known him before, huh? - Yeah, off and on. Ran into him the first about a year ago. How come he's carrying a shotgun? Hasn't got the range for this country. - That's his business. If you're so all-fired interested, why don't you ask him? - Now don't get so touchy. I was just wondering. After all, he can't hurt anything over 30 yards away with it. I don't even use one in my business. - Oh, what's that, prospecting? - Well, you might call it that. I've been called other things, too. Yes, sir, that's a good I'll have to remember that. There's only one difference, though. My gold has two legs on it. This beats a shovel anytime. - Oh, a bounty hunter, huh? Kill a man for the price on his head. I've heard of your kind. - Now, Abby, you don't You don't mind if I call you Abby, do you? I don't mind if you call me Reb. - Well, now that you've settled that, you mind if I finish up? - Yes, sir, you'd be a fella can bank, providing - I know, Mister. All you figure it takes is a bag of gold. - Now that depends on who's taking. - Look, I don't know what's but if you're figuring on you're barking up the wrong tree. He ran into me yesterday - Bentley? Where, he's wanted. - That's what I found out yesterday. - Where is he? - Floating down the river - $1,000. Did he mention Perez or - Maybe he did and, then Or maybe he told Hardin. - [Clay] Reb, Abby, hurry it up. (gentle music) (horse whinnies) (gentle music) - Can you hear it? (tense music) (horse whinnies) (tense music) - Looks like an Apache. No, let him come in. He's most likely one of Delgadito's men. (tense music) You bring word from Delgadito? - I bring the man you but he did not die that way. (tense music) (dramatic music) Man called Hardin killed He is now following your trail. - You've done well. Tell Delgadito I'll see - Delgadito says you - Maybe we're biting off This Hardin's beginning - I've been in plenty of gunfights before, and I always come out on top. I don't think Hardin's gonna Knowing Hardin, I figure he's gonna head for the relay station in Cervales. I think we'll arrange to (ominous, dramatic music) - Well, Reb, let's break it up right here. We're headed down the stream, southwest, to cover our tracks. - That's a funny thing. I was figuring on doing just that. Looks like we're still company. - We could use an extra gun. We've run into plenty of Apache signs. - That doesn't matter. I'm dropping you off in Cervales tomorrow. - It'll take me weeks to get a stage west out from that station. - You'll handle it. - Kinda pretty when she's mad. - Reb, I don't want any buzzards You want the girl, all right, - I just told you, I'm - What do you two think - Lady's got a point. - Could be, but let's get I started out after Thompson, and I have every intention of getting him. (dramatic music) Well, it's all clear. - Good, now we can get out of this. - Yeah, I was beginning It'll be great to stretch my legs. - Hold it, Abby. - But I thought- - Do what the man says, honey. - Look, there's an island past the bend. There's no sense taking chances. We'll stay in the stream - You're the stud duck in this pond. (dramatic music) (playful music) Here, I could sure use some of that. Hey, that's water! - You heard what the man said, no fire. - Now that's thinking. Well, I got plenty on me. Might as well get some in me. - Want something to eat? - No, thanks. - Coffee? No coffee, no Indians, I guess. - That all you got to do? - No, but I'm learning something. - Well, that's a help. - They say you can tell a man by the way he treats his horse. - Yeah, or his guns. - That makes sense. They're both life or Whatever you do adds What are you afraid Or is it the other way around? - What are you after this time? - Does someone always have (playful music) - I'll take a look around. - Abby, everybody's got an ax I only knew one man who didn't. - Is that where Thompson comes in? I know Reb wants him, and Is Thompson the reason for your shotgun? - You ever see a man who was - No. - You know the man I the one who didn't have an ax to grind? Thompson worked him - I think I'll wash up. - Stay on the south bank. (Reb whistling) (gentle music) - Now ain't that pretty? - You're worse than a aren't you, Reb? - It's always open season on her kind. (Reb grunts) (exciting music) - Stop it, quit it! (exciting music) Stop it, please! Stop it, please, stop - All right, all right! Next time you step - What's eating you two? You're always at each other's throats. - You mean he's always at mine. - Well why? - I brought a friend of $1,000 in gold. - A friend? Clay boy was on the outlaw trail himself until some marshal friend He started wearing a badge. He's still more killer than lawman. - He could've used a gun - Not Clay, gunman's pride. Always wants the other fella No profit in that. - Profit? I should've let him drown you. He's twice the man you'll ever be. - Kinda got you interested, huh? - Maybe so. - Always did like spirit. (cock crows) (foreboding music) - Somebody's out there. (tense music) - [Ben] Open up, Apaches are coming! - Maybe they are and maybe they aren't. Cover me. (gun clicks) (door bangs) (gun bangs) (exciting music) (gun bangs) (exciting music) Get up, get up. (man thuds) (soft music) (hooves clomp) - Can't we stop for a while? - No, not too many miles. We can't take a chance stopping here. - Clay, I can't. - 10 minutes won't hurt, - You stretch. Last time you stretched, - Yeah, I heard the man. (quietly dramatic music) - I'm gonna look over their stock, see if I can pull a switch. (quietly dramatic music) - Hello. Ed? Hello in there! Better tie up. (tense music) - Hey, she gets around, don't she? - Yeah. - Get back. (tense music) Abby, get behind the wagon. - Long time no see. I heard you was wearing a badge. - Glad your ears are still good, Perez. What do you hear from Thompson? That's enough, you. - You can still ride back - You haven't answered my question. Where's Thompson? - He said tell ya he was sorry. He said he couldn't wait. (guns bang) (dramatic music) - You ever try shooting - Not unless I have to. She's learning, too. - [Clay] Now what are you doing with that? I told you to stay behind the wagon. - A woman's got a right to - Yeah, it wouldn't have - Clay, get us out of this! - Here, put it back where you got it. - They had us pinned in since yesterday. We couldn't warn you. - How did Thompson know you were coming? I didn't hear about it. Unless one of those Indians he's been running guns to told him. - Army boys went through about a week ago, told us about him. - Where's Thompson? - He left them two behind to wait for you when he rode off. - Which way is he heading? - What was that name he mentioned? - I think it was Delgadito. - Yeah, that's right, one of the renegades that broke off the reservation. He's leading a group of about 40 braves. They've been running wild. You used to know him, didn't you? - Yeah, yeah. Where these Apaches been holding up? - Last report had them at that - Boys, this is Abby. Ed, Frank. - How do? - Hello. Clay. - He hasn't changed a bit, has he? - He sure hasn't. - You wouldn't mind signing this affidavit for Greybar, would you, Marshal? (quiet music) - Clay, why don't you wait here? Thompson will show up when he gets tired of waiting for word of what's happened. - You don't know Thompson, So will I, until I find him. - Don't you see, if it isn't Ben Thompson it's, well, there'll always be somebody. - Maybe. - Maybe what? Maybe some day you'll or you'll get shot from behind. Clay, why can't the army take care of him? If he's mixed up with - And mine. Abby, listen, I've got and, when I do, I'm heading back for a little ranch I've got, and it's not exactly the - Not the kind of life I'd like, huh? Why don't you say what that I'm not good enough Wasn't like that this morning, was it? - Abby, now listen- - No, you listen to me. Maybe I was foolish enough to have some ideas concerning you. Maybe I thought I'd found a man. Well, all right, so I danced in a saloon, and so I put up with all of it. Well, where would you be if someone hadn't dragged you off the outlaw trail and given you a chance to straighten out? Reb told me all about it. - All right, Abby, once and for all, I'm gonna tell you something. Killing Thompson the hard way will serve as an example for every - Oh, that's your excuse, and there'll always be one, won't there? (quiet music) All right, go ahead, take Only this time, you'll be trying to forget the sight of a man you (dramatic music) - Well. (hand smacks) (tense music) - Is this the way Delgadito - A friend does not come empty-handed. You were to have brought us guns. - I couldn't bring the shipment through, not with Hardin following You want those Winchesters, maybe you better take care of Hardin yourself. - I've already done much for you. You know what happened to Bentley. My Apaches have been as your own, but it cannot go on this way. - It had better go on, want those new weapons to fight with. - Then perhaps it is wise Even returning to the is better than continuing a fight without hope of winning it. - That's up to you, but you can still have the You better think it over. (quiet music) (swirling music) - Well. - Aren't you gonna invite me down? - Why, I thought you said everything. What are you doing here? - Didn't wanna wait around Cervales, and Reb said that- - Reb? So that's who brought you here, huh? Where is he? - Back there. I thought it'd be best if I came in first. - Suppose you ride back and flag him in. Don't yell, flag him in. - Sure, Clay. (swirling music) - How'd he take it? - I'm not sure. - Well, I kept my end of the bargain. I got you here. See you live up to yours. - Don't worry, if I had my way, you'd go after Thompson alone. - That's the way I want it. (swirling music) - I told you once I didn't want - Oh, Clay! - [Clay] You stay out of it. - Now, Clay, you know- - I know, I know you're tagging me, trying to get Thompson the safe way. More of your blood money, using her as an excuse to get here. Maybe you're a necessary You want Thompson? All right, but you got to What's the matter? Isn't that gold shining bright now, Reb? - Yeah, but your badge (tense music) You been waiting for this - [Clay] Your deal. (exciting music) - No, no, Clay! and get outta there! - I told him to bring me out. - [Clay] Then tell him to bring you back. (exciting music) (quiet music) - Good luck, Clay. I guess this is the way it has to be. - That's right. - If you ever make Calexico, ask around. - Yeah, yeah, I'll do that. (brooding music) - May as well start back. - Let's not make any hasty decisions, not before we've had a little coffee and a chance to stretch our legs. May have a chance to return then. There's coffee in my saddlebag. Hustle it up while I build a fire. - A fire? - Just a little one. Nobody's gonna see it. - Reb, that smoke. We oughta be getting outta here. - Don't get touchy, - Let's get going. I'm beginning to get a funny feeling. - We're not going back. I'm just giving Clay a chance to get a few miles up the trail. - We're not going back? You know what'll happen - I don't aim to. I aim to stay just far enough behind to get first crack if a Then it's Calexico for you and me. That's what you want, isn't it? - I suppose so. - Then you better drink up. This has gotta last us (arrow thunks) Head for the horses! Keep moving! (exciting music) (gun bangs) (exciting music) (tense music) - Where's Abby? - Lot sooner than you expected, huh? Take it easy. Thompson's got some nice playmates. - All right, Reb, let's get- - Don't. You know better than that. It'll be slower dying this Imagine, Reb Carleton pinned to a tree. Oldest Apache trick in the book. It's funny, if it hadn't been for this, I might've gotten it clean. If Thompson saw this, he your sidekick, in the entire land. Here, you might run into the same lot. - [Clay] How about a smoke? - No, thanks. - What did they do with the girl? - She's with them. They got other plans for her. She's prettier than me. - Is there anything I can do for you? - I guess not. Not that it matters, I'd About that friend of yours I didn't know he was giving himself up, coming in without his guns, but I guess it wouldn't You'll pick up the trail Oh, leave me a gun, will you? Apaches might come back. It won't be long. (gentle music) (gun bangs) (wind howls) (tense music) (tense music) (Apaches shout) (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (tense music) - [Clay] Delgadito. - You should never have come in, Clay. - Are you all right? - Up til now. (dramatic music) - You've come a long I never figured you'd let a gal get you into this kind of mess, or is it that badge you're wearing? - I figure I got a pat hand, Thompson. - Against 50 to one? - My back's all right, so (tense music) Go ahead, why don't you try? - Against a shotgun? - Delgadito, I come as a friend. I want no fight with I want the white girl and this man. - The Apaches are a brave nation. They respect bravery in all men. He wants girl, too. He brings us guns. He is our friend. - Your friend? Since when did Delgadito, a great chief, call a coward a friend? - Coward, I'll fight him anytime (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (Apaches shout) - What is it? - It's a duel, with these. (Apaches shout) (dramatic music) - This is stupid, one shot apiece. (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (dramatic music) (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (dramatic music) (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (dramatic music) - [Delgadito] Go. (tense music) (gun bangs) (horse whinnies) (exciting music) (Delgadito speaking foreign language) (dramatic music) (quiet music) - Still heading for Calexico? - Not unless you are. I was thinking of a ranch. - Might be the kind of life you'd like. (sweeping, dramatic music)