John Gotti was the most famous gangster His picture is on His name is all over TV. He's a headline figure. He brutally murdered his way to become head of the most John Gotti took charge shortly after his reputed predecessor Addicted to fame, he adored the attention and became America's He was Moby Dick Everybody wanted to prosecute John Gotti. In New York, the Gotti trial He made a mockery of the law. Time and again, walking free from court. I'm not saying he didn't do it, However, overconfident and arrogant, he thought He was this guy with a come and get me He made fun of that. However, what he did but the ruination of America's A Monday evening, in December 1985, At Sparks Steakhouse, Paul Castellano, one of the most powerful mobsters Accompanied by his driver, Tommy Bellotti. Four men are waiting for them. Across the street, two men watch the events At least three gunmen shot and killed a man reputed chief of the Gambino Mafia family. That's the nation's most powerful Well, the king is dead. Paul Castellano, reputed boss of bosses, executed The assassination of Paul Castellano in Mafia history. The murder of a family boss Most surprising, though, John Gotti. Gotti was just not a well-known prior to the killing of Castellano. His initial forte in organized crime beating people up, and killing people. He is a thug in my view. Gotti started his life in crime as a low-level street thug, but he had big ambitions. He had his eye on joining in America. Mob profits are going to top Add to that, the inflated costs and the total bill is more than 77 dollars They're into everything to sophisticated white-collar crime, garbage carting, the peers, and, of course, murder. In 1973, Gotti was given the opportunity to join the most powerful The Gambino's. Conservative estimates indicate was making easily The head of the family His nephew had recently been kidnapped Gambino wanted revenge, and he offered Gotti his chance Making your bones and that you are now ready as a maid or soldier in the family. Gotti was part of the team in revenge for the kidnapping. He was sentenced to seven years, On his release, Gotti was richly rewarded. He was initiated into the Mafia and dramatically promoted in charge of his own crew. It was one of the most violent and they were engaged in everything to murders and loan sharking. They were really crazy people, and hijack is really That's what Gotti was. By 1976, Gotti was a rising star in New York's You can get pretty far in life who doesn't give you your way. That's a pretty significant advantage. Then, a change at the head of the family would allow Gotti After 20 years, Carlo Gambino, died. His brother-in-law, Paul Castellano, Castellano saw himself as more Something that riled roughnecks Paul was remote He didn't associate They felt he thought he was too important They sometimes called him the pope From his mansion on Staten Island, Castellano took a dim view and was cutting them out It was the crew that Paul Castellano because they were looked upon jawbreakers, knee breakers, It was a family of the haves Castellano and all his side The Gotti's crews were all struggling, just trying to earn enough money Gotti began to nurture a growing hatred However, was not the only problem The government and was planning to wage war on the Mafia. For years, the Mafia had prospered as only the low-level members whilst the top guys, always managed to keep their hands clean. Very often, in a Darwinian sense, and you allowed the strong to survive. The bosses and underbosses, the consigliere, who ran the street units, They never really extorted They were on the receiving end, However, the FBI was going to target and build new squads to take on each The head of the Gambino squad When we started out in 1980, there was very little intelligence so we basically started from scratch. Mouw had to discover a way which operated To investigate a crime family, and try to find where they're vulnerable, We like to find a gossip, and one of the first cases we opened, John Gotti had a sidekick, a friend who went back His name was Fat Angie, Angelo Ruggiero. Angie Ruggiero was intimately known He gossiped a lot. He liked the talk, he liked the blab. In 1981, Mouw's team got court permission and then bug his home. It wasn't long before the wires During the Giro, were involved in major heroin activity. They were pushing in a six-month period here in New York. [Foreign spoken audio]. The FBI arrested Angelo Ruggiero but not Gotti. They had nothing We know John Gotti knew about it. He got a piece of it, in the physical trafficking However, he wasn't off the hook yet. Although, the Mafia profited many bosses, including Paul Castellano, made a rule officially banning their crews He had this edict He could use it whenever he wanted to get rid of somebody he didn't like Castellano now had the perfect excuse Castellano wasn't a big fan and they weren't his favorite boys, so he definitely He had the manpower, the horsepower It was a kill-or-be-killed situation. Gotti realized he had to strike first. The killing of a mob boss The Mafia have strict rules. He would need permission from the heads However, a lowly Mafia captain just for suggesting Now, for the first time, Gotti, showed strategic sense Gotti gambled of Castellano's high-handed manner, His gamble paid off. Amazingly, three of the New York bosses gave the go-ahead for the upstart capo He now needed a hit team. In an audacious move, he approached wealthy Castellano loyalist, He successfully enticed him From his new recruits, Gotti discovered Castellano had become so overconfident. He'd been a boss for ten years. There'd been no attempts against him, He rode around with only one lieutenant, He was unarmed with no bodyguards. They learned that Castellano at a restaurant called Sparks Steakhouse They knew the hour, They assembled their crew, He devised a way of killing Castellano, and it really was a brilliant coup Gotti worked out, he could use the crowded streets He had everybody dressed and also wear Russian fur hats. The idea was that so any passers-by on the street could not really make In a final bold move, Gotti would be only feet away His new right-hand man, Sammy Gravano, What happened next The four shooters were waiting for him. You've seen the pictures. They shot him dead right there You talk about shock and all, This is shock and all Within a few days, that John Gotti did this. Now the scale of Gotti's ambition In another show of clever strategy, he packed a meeting of Gambino captains Frankie Chico stands up and says, &quot;I nominate John Gotti to be the next boss Of course, Gotti was sitting there John was elected the boss This was in January of 1986. John Gotti took charge of what's called shortly after his reputed predecessor The man who succeeded him, was a man by the name of John Gotti. Is he behind this? Well, I certainly would think he heads and certainly Until now, exerting its power from the shadows. A traditional mob boss They wanted to control through intermediaries. They did not want to be seen who could be targeted by law enforcement. Gotti was precisely the opposite. Gotti attracted attention Immediately after becoming the boss his whole exterior changed. Previously, he wore windbreakers He had the jewelry of a two-bit mafioso. Suddenly, overnight, he switches. He's now wearing tailored suits, cashmere coats, even monogrammed socks. He went to great lengths to have this appearance Forty-five years old, for his custom-made suits and his frequent stops He's got very good taste. He likes his hair extremely perfect. He's such a gentleman He was also a big-time gambler, sometimes flashing Gotti loved the limelight. He talked about it all the time. He had his public. He didn't mind He boasted how important he was. He was a megalomaniac. The press nicknamed him the Dapper Don. However, for all the fancy suits, and he couldn't shake free from his past. Even as he ascended to the throne Gotti was awaiting trial In 1984, nearly two years earlier, a refrigerator salesman from Queens, That was a traffic dispute. It was about a parking space. John Gotti slapped Romual Piecyk They also stole Piecyk didn't know who he was, That's all that case was about. Somebody who's going to be the mob boss where he can be arrested a meaningless incident. Then, before it goes to trial, All of a sudden, poor Romual Piecyk was testifying against Piecyk had good reason to fear him, when a terrifying story In 1980, when he ran out His son ran out into the street, not seeing him clearly an accident, killed the young man. Media stories told was menaced by Gotti's wife when he tried to apologize. After that, He was selling his house and moving, and the day before he moved, and the story that was circulated cut him in half with a chainsaw. When that story hit the media, Having heard what happened to Favara, Piecyk had a sudden change of heart If I went and stood there and this is Mr Coletta, I'm not sure. Piecyk's loss of memory The brake linings on his car had been cut, and also he'd been threatened Who's to blame him for the Gotti's stuff? Gotti walked free from court He had defeated New York's combined forces However, less than two weeks later, This time, it was the turn There were much more serious charges, and young assistant prosecutor, hoped they would hit Gotti It was a racketeering case particular crimes that they committed as part It should have been a humiliation but instead, The supermodel of mobsters. Gotti on magazine covers One New York tabloid The cut, not the criminal in a daily fashion column Every day at the courthouse, I'm interested in the case Gotti has been a cover boy, Gotti happily obliged his public Nonchalant and apparently unconcerned Overnight, it became a media sensation Gotti even tried to assiduously He would have espresso with some brandy and he often invited the women reporters, to share these drinks with him. He opened doors for the women. He considered himself a new element and he was somebody who was untouchable. Although he played the part when the trial started, He was constantly berating me. I'd walk past him to go to the sidebar, You're a junkie. Worse still, Gotti's lawyers proceeded to lay who were all ex-mobsters. Their racketeering was even worse They were all murderers At the same time, there was no electronic eavesdropping, Gotti was acquitted. When the verdict was read today, Gotti smiled, and shouted, &quot;Shame on them.&quot; The jury's job was to decide They did their job, What nobody knew at the time, had always been guaranteed. Gotti had an insurance policy One of the jurors was bribed. Later, juror George Pape would be found guilty to withhold a guilty verdict. However, at the time, the case It was a prosecutor's nightmare. It was a horror show, and John Gotti loved it. He enjoyed every minute of it. He knew he wasn't going to get convicted. He knew he had a free ride. He knew there was no downside for him -That's not a problem. Gotti had made a mockery but the attempt to try to convict him In the course of the trial, the prosecution had called and in doing so Two years after the trial, a childhood friend of Gotti's, The other informant, Billy Batiste, Now, this incensed the FBI because it was giving away too valuable informers, in an essentially, It caused, not just a dispute, but a rift. As each law enforcement agency rifts and rivalries grew up between them, seriously hampering efforts It really was an indictment that for so many years Not cooperating with one another. He had the FBI investigating him. He had the Queens DA's office He had the Manhattan DA's office He had something called investigating him. Actually, it's so comical at one time, three of them had separate bugs the Bergen Fish and Hunt Club. It was a joke. Next to try and nail Gotti was the New York State Its boss, Ronald Goldstuck, believed that one of his bugs They became the third organization John Gotti, alleged in the indictment is now under indictment. This, then, taken by state, which will inevitably change In New York City this morning, the man police called the country's faces the possibility of life in prison for allegedly ordering That union official, John O'Connor, had smashed up a restaurant In revenge, However, he survived. In the courtroom, witnesses testified and Goldstuck was convinced that he had the evidence My sense was everybody in the courtroom who was watching the case believed there was going However, when the tapes the terrible quality of the recordings on the solidity of the case. [Foreign spoken audio]. A jury brought in its verdict today I'll say with respect we find him not guilty. We were stunned by the acquittal of Gotti. We did not believe Gotti walked free from court a third time. There was nothing. There was nothing to connect Mr. Gotti Zilch. I'm not saying he didn't do it. I simply had my doubts. The government thinks you just say mafia, and you sit down on your backside It's not enough for an American That night, the media bestowed on him a new title, because no charges ever stuck. The whole city should be happy. There were actually street parties. People came out and cheered them. Here you have this cruel, vicious killer, It's a terrifying not just of the media, but also of this vicarious kick the public gets They wanted to see Jesse James, and he saw that. He milked it for all he could milk it for. He was cast as this Dapper Don, It was a gloss on him He was just a thug. Never before had a criminal John Gotti had emerged triumphant and the government was desperate A lot of people, for the first time, He's a Teflon Don, he's untouchable. However, in 1989, after four years the FBI were ready to make their move. Our motto was patience and perseverance. Take all the time you want, and just stick at it The years of patience Slowly, Mouw's team made contact connected to the Gambino family. There's a lot of people out there undiluted wise guys The FBI learned that Gotti liked to spend his time on Mulberry Street Mouw ordered 24-hour surveillance This little Italy and to conduct surveillance The FBI covertly secured a lease with a direct view They installed thousands of dollars and in studying hours of footage, Gotti was so overconfident that he was openly from the Raven Heights's Social Club. He never seemed to understand an underground criminal outfit, and he demands that at least once a week, his soldiers or his capos have to show up They're not supposed to meet in public. They're supposed to be clandestine, From Monday through Friday, at this club, five nights a week. He gives Bruce Mouw to unearth evidence They could photograph everybody They find out people they didn't know Union leaders or politicians. Mobsters that were not known Gotti hands them a who's who in the mob. Good though the surveillance was, photos and video from outside the club They needed to be able to hear Mouw called in the FBI's head Jim Kallstrom, I don't know if you've driven down a very closed environment. A lot of mobsters are living there, Therefore, making an entry It's very complicated. Kallstons people are professional They can break through locks They can break into safes, At the risk of retribution, There's never a time Never, never a time. Informants had told Mouw's team that meetings took place at a table They broke into the club, disabled the alarm system, With the bugs in place, the FBI thought that they were finally However, they would discover You couldn't hear yourself talk It was extremely noisy. Music played all on purpose The tech guys went in several times. We put a bug below the table, in the wall We brought in tech guys from Washington to try to filter out but it just didn't work out. They couldn't make out any words Although, it was possible However, there was a puzzle, The team went back to the videotapes looking for any lead. It was then by watching the door next to the club. Here's really the power of surveillance. All of a sudden, we started to figure out who would leave, almost like clockwork, Mouw checked all their logs and realized that Gotti's voice disappeared The FBI now discovered that there was an internal staircase to the apartments above. A background check on the tenants revealed from their recordings. Apartment 10 was occupied by the widow of a Gambino soldier Gotti's minions would tell her, &quot;Hey, we need to use your apartment She goes to the neighbor to watch TV. Gotti and his minions would go up there and have their administration meetings That was the break that we needed. I remember Bruce Mouw calling me &quot;We have the Eureka location.&quot; However, How to get into an apartment One of the ballgame to get in there as you have a widow and you have to get into her apartment. Mouw's team learned that Mrs. Cirelli will be going out of town In late November 1989, Kallstrom's team and placed a bug in her apartment. That's when the waiting started. As weeks passed without results, If Gotti suspected he had been bugged, You always wonder, Did they make the tech guys? Did they leave Has it been compromised? Then, on a late November evening, the team observed Gotti and they get ready Sure enough, they open the door One thing we didn't know at the time They couldn't whisper, they had to talk Right there is our microphone. You tell this punk, I, me John Gotti will sever your mother fucking head off John Gotti's voice Here's Gotti, who warns everybody if they're ever heard He goes up there and he's talking openly. He would go over stuff Now listen to me, tell him. Now listen you both of ya he'll sever It wasn't like, what did he say? If you didn't get it the first time, just wait a few minutes John talks about whacking DB, When DB got whacked, they told me a story. I was in jail when I whacked him, I did it anyway. John's classic line was, but when in doubt, you kill him.&quot; It was a clear admission to a murder. It was what Mouw and Gotti handed it to him We monitored Maybe seven hours of tape are all told. However, they were the top 40 hits. We knew we were off to the races. We knew we were going to have This is going to be a Cosa Nostra Be it an hour from now, be it tonight, or 100 years from now when I'm in jail, On December 11th, 1990, the FBI arrested John Gotti for the murders Along with his closest henchman, underboss Sammy Gravano. At the pre-trial hearing, Gotti, the seasoned pro, They're going to try and keep you in jail, At the time of his arrest, Gotti, He was cocky, confident, and smiling. He didn't know what was coming. He didn't know those tapes were coming. He sat down, we played part of the tapes, and he knew right away which was we had a great case. There was no longer a Mr. Cool He was like a cornered animal, However, before the trial even started, One of the FBI recordings had caught Gotti bad-mouthing Sammy Gravano, behind his back. Sammy knew there was something bad not just for them getting convicted, in terms of his relationship However, he didn't know what it was. Gravano now broke with Mafia law and approached the FBI demanding to hear the tapes. I will never forget as long as I live, the playing on December 12th tape Basically an hour tirade He calls him the green-eyed monster. How much he hates Sammy He talks about firing him. More importantly, the recordings of several killings. Every time we get a partner we kill him, and he okay's it. Gravano was just red, He was ready to explode. He was so upset about his loyal, his wonderful boss Sammy's looking down at the transcript, and throws them down on the table &quot;Don't gloat, guys. Don't gloat. Gravano realized, why should I die in jail I want to become a government witness. At that moment, Gravano decided to break and turn against his boss We never thought for a minute I thought John would flip I really didn't think that John would even think about flipping. He revealed many murders he committed, I think there were a total of 19. He gave us more details Exactly how the whole thing went down. He was in the car with Gotti. With Gravano on their side, was now airtight. Outside the court, He was still, after all, the Teflon Don. It's not just average guys a who's who from Hollywood This was one of the great dramas The trial was a really high drama because it was the number-one media event The reporters every day We all sat with the Gotti's minions. The highlight was when Gravano testified Today, Gravano explained how the two men Paul Castellano, How they watched the hit go down and then drove He didn't diminish his own criminality, He admitted what he had to admit. He was a lights-out witness. I've been doing this now for 27 years There was no better witness He killed them. Everybody in the courtroom knew once Sammy Gravano testified, When the jury announced their verdict, Gotti's crew incited a riot I'm ashamed That's what I'm ashamed of. It is wrong what happened to him. What was he, a criminal? Gotti had been found guilty Racketeering and five murders, It took the government six years However, this time The legendary luck of John Gotti The Teflon is gone. The Don is covered with Velcro It was quite an occasion. I still get emotional For one member it was a moment to be savored. You can imagine my feelings. How does it feel Don't get him nervous now. This was my second trial. I worked long and hard in that first case with a seven-month trial, We couldn't have been happier. We were pleased and happy. Are you smiling again? Gotti was sentenced to life in jail, spending 23 hours of each day Gotti's indiscretions incriminated The FBI itself could not have hand-picked to be the head of one than John Gotti. Because of him, most of these captains were arrested, They'd say, &quot;John They hated this guy. He was an absolute ruination He was so inept, that he single-handedly John Gotti died in jail in 2002, aged 61, after serving ten years To some New Yorkers, Gotti will always be but he was never anything more His only legacy was the destruction of the most His legacy, just another boss gets arrested and dies in jail. No more, no less.