The --- ----- in 2011. We saved a lot of Libyan lives. Now, could we have done more after the ---- ---- was ended? Well, that's always, and I'm sure that there's but let's look at A complex and highly The international effort We finally have hope that our Welcome back to Libya. Here we are near the About to jump in a car and We're staying in I'll show it to you but I just want to quickly that please take these videos in what I can and can't film They try to take you to historical but personally, for making videos I'm and how they feel and how they're But I'm going to try and talk to some even though we've been kind Anyway, we'll come It's quite strange, it's got and then we're going like boy races in the Anyway, it's a really I'm just kind of Lots to learn, lots of strange rules the ---- are constantly tracking us &lt;i&gt;Salaam alaikum&lt;/i&gt;. So Mr. Bashere what do you He's like the supervisor He was born here in Nineteen fifty, and what changes have It's a long story. Everything has changed. For the better or for the worse? For the worse. The cost of living It used to be nice and - Inflation. So his wages were like $30 Dinars, now it's even above $1000 Do you feel secure Yeah, much, much better. Economically is harder, What do you prefer then? Do you prefer to have less access to money Before, a bit better before. - &lt;i&gt;Shukran&lt;/i&gt;. There's some ---- Okay, so a few and we've spent which was built the last inhabitants and it's been really interesting we've seen a lot of beautiful and it's quite there's no other tourists here. Apparently, foreigners Apparently, the words going around and we've been There's ---- officers it started with just two there were five They say it's for There were some ---- ---- and then our guide said that just outside in 2011 We did find old ---- Anyway, I better not As I said before, this but in terms of making there's plenty of great documentaries about so I'm gonna try and, you know, and show you, but yeah just keep I've managed to just Normally we're being We're going to go into a house now, and then I'll head and I'll show you the Here we have Mecca up here. - Great, so we're here with Muhammad Ali. And Muhammad's been showing You mentioned earlier that you spent time Yes, I've been there to I study my main job, I learned many things there. And how are the people Oh yeah, I'm telling you the fact, - Right. And you've been back in Libya Yes, yeah, from 1980, 41 years. Forty-one years, yeah. And what have been in those 41 years that Everything is different, really. Before... I prefer Now we were living - Really? Yeah, we're not... It's seven or eight years In your day-to-day life, what It's the economy a little bit. - Economy? But now it's Ghadamis, speaking even when we had the ---- here in Libya, - You feel safe here? You don't see many foreigners Yeah, really, yeah. Sometimes we have, - Diplomats? And do you think that that more people I hope in the future maybe - Direction, or it's what I call... Exactly. Many people in the they would be worried about and I was one of those, I was and what would you say... - What do you find now? - Exactly. Of course, everyone would like Really, believe me, Libya maybe two or three Sometimes you hear about sometimes even in you find bombing, This is life, sorry for that, but So you recommend people Sure, sure, yes, - It will improve? Today better than yesterday, - Okay, &lt;i&gt;shukran&lt;/i&gt;. It is really hot. It's 43 degrees Celsius, we just So, we've come and we've had a bit of a rest, it's kind of seems like because it's so hot in I mean you like being outside being in the middle Anyway, here's the hotel. I'm going to show you around Before we explore the hotel, I and say a huge thank you to Curiosity Curiosity Stream is basically like They have thousands There's a few I've One in particular and it shows you the entire process for example, the invention but it's quite small and a lot of really interesting There's also some really cool What stands out the most about If you use my link Beautiful, beautiful hotel, don't We did... I'll show you a So here we are at breakfast some coffee, yogurts, I'm the only one here. So, I'll take you I'm not sure, but just two ---- and they're just staring I feel like I'm always Anyway, let's go in this hotel, get away from that situation. There's a few employees Through here is where These are all ---- Apparently, you know, the because it's very, very so it's a strange Anyway, I'll take you down to I don't believe those Those are just shells of And here's my room, and there's even I completely understand that the country's so I understand why the As you can see our tour guide It's nice to hear, and I've talked to and the common theme seems to be that but safety and security it's it seems to be improving so fingers crossed that and economically people We're about to go out who are into like that should be interesting So we've been back here at just waiting for the because, like I said, I was outside like two There's huge potential here for - &lt;i&gt;Salaam Alaikum&lt;/i&gt;. I don't know if you can but we've just driven out into and we've climbed this mountain, in the background My guide's phone just went off, so pretty special to and Libya has so much to see There's a lot more to see that you see when you I mean, those things are but there's also this other This guy's a bit He's drifting along the ridges and taking selfies and The driver was just saying that he but the dunes have shifted, So far, Libya is nowhere near as I did expect a lot more ---- I did expect a lot more The places I've been and I'm going to be traveling on There are parts of the country you know comparing to even one to two years ago and you know there is little but nothing compared Everybody's friendly with each I guess, after going Libya is a country I've wanted over two years and to It's a lot steeper than it looks Success. Slight update, came now we're bellied I swear we were That was scary. Is that your signature, - How old is he? That's like how I used to drive So, we're here with our crazy driver Are you driving full Like free enterprise, you know, it's so basically whatever And what do you do for fun? Now it's mainly - Work, work, work. Have you traveled to Yeah, he's been to the What's it like in the Did you like it Yeah, no, no he yeah too much, so he Okay, thank you for So, we have come and we've been beautiful ambiance in Nice lighting and they've got all Teapots and everything and they're Look at this, this is really What a setting. Old petrol canisters What do we have - It's rice. Interesting stories, so he found out this was during the kingdom, the and you could see it's and then during ---- which is the Arabic word for sport, so So they were selling cigarettes Well obviously you would put cigarettes as for When he can get the whole that's even more exciting. He said the more he does It's worth a lot Nineteen twenty-three. Italians were into tomatoes, It's after midnight, still like 33 The desert life is pretty crazy. All the shops are open now, it's That collection there and such a nice dinner there. Strange day, very interesting. The ---- are nice, and and they're friendly, but you know they so you know they say it's for our In the next video, we're going to be and we're going to be we're going to see more of the capital hopefully, meet some but we will do our best to meet people Anyway, thank you very much I know it's a random, but you know, I'll take Just to get access into this country is a I took some different if you want to check them out, check them out on my Instagram Thank you so much for watching, and in case I don't see you, good afternoon, good evening, and good night.