We are challenging the belief which is now held sense of the direction of time, the arrow that disorder is increasing. But we're finding the exact opposite. Very, very few people working working from a farmhouse north of Oxford, Julian theory that upends conventional physics. Time raced down the path of quantum gravity and string translating Russian scientific journals, was busy if what we call time is nothing more than the way the shape of the universe. It's utterly impossible the contrary, time is an abstraction that we suggests that the universe isn't evolving through flow of time is the difference between static film strip. Even more surprising, his mathematical chaos, as our mainstream physics suggests, the complex, directly challenging the sacred second believed would never be overthrown. The exact which says that the universe goes from being we've got exactly the opposite behavior we explore Barbour's audacious ideas about time, about reality itself. Julian, there aren't many people like you, if that. And what I mean is that fundamental physics, who are outside the academy, So let's talk about what is it like to do that, do it because of being interested in something ago, somebody said to me, if I want to get into good research papers every year. Studying time and I was able to earn money quite reasonably by that for 28 years. But it left me about a quarter perfect. So just steadily now, it's now for over ideas, and I've managed to have some extremely worked very well. So that's how I've done it. wouldn't work, although it's getting easier now, and access to libraries and talking to people. but that's how I've done it. Okay, now speaking before getting into those, we talk about, well, dimension. These concepts will come up repeatedly, regards time, I always quote Ernst Mach, who says of things by time. Quite the contrary, time is an that there are instances of time, and I would now and that time is just a succession of such shapes. Newton's great opponent with whom we debated many can perhaps illustrate it with this little model of those triangles represent an instance. Suppose then they would be at the vertices of a triangle particles at the vertices of the triangle, and instants to make it seem that they're evolving in just that you go from one triangle to another. representation of Einstein's general relativity this is how I got into all this by chance reading great quantum theoretician, in 1958, he published create a quantum theory of gravity, we're going imagine spacetime like a loaf of bread, Einstein like, and Dirac said, but that's an anathema for redundant subsidiary degrees of freedom which This made a huge impression on me, and I think way he put it in the mathematics that he did, collaborators, I think over the years we've shown relativity, and it also does match what we observe defines a notion of rest to very great accuracy, with the way Dirac thought about the universe. So, just the way we interpret the way that the shape had a notion of simultaneity. How does that make about general relativity, which replaced special would say, redundant when Einstein created general The famous business of when you're falling freely introduce something that is very, well, really it just to your immediate neighborhood when you're universe, and that's what Dirac was thinking space, but before we move on to the definition of cardboard diorama that you had, if you don't mind thinking of what time is, is time has duration and different slices. Now are you saying that there is the slices are all different. I mean, my the other one. In fact, I would say what really talking about the whole universe, but the shapes that I would say they define an instant of time. duration is not really out there in the universe. there, but we put the duration between them. JS because that's in their intrinsic structure. If in fact, this is exactly what does happen strongly suspect in general relativity too, there theory, it doesn't grow absolutely uniformly, but like that. This quantity is what we call the which is nothing whatever to do with the increase an increase of order. Yes, there are differences. just as the two triangles of different shapes with triangles because that's the simplest example the notions of space and dimension in terms of Why don't you talk about Mach's principle like Leibniz before him, said Newton's notions Newton said that there is a space that exists ice in which you can describe straight lines. Now can take something and score a line along it, but you wouldn't leave any mark. So Leibniz said is the order of coexisting things. And when he I mean the distances between things. And then he things. And whenever it was 150, 160 years the same sort of things. And Mach's criticism of led him to create general relativity that was very of Newton's ideas in 1870 in a little booklet led notion of an inertial system, which is what today showed in the simplest possible case with just you could determine what that inertial frame of I think you really need to take into account the inertial frame of reference is determined by the all the bodies in the universe. And that's how I would say Einstein didn't follow Mach too Einstein introduced a whole lot of confusions. mathematics and also other physics, he did create which we would never have if Einstein hadn't been the process, he created a tremendous muddle about has been spent trying to sort out that muddle. But north of Oxford, people don't necessarily take be right. In fact, I once had a discussion with a this is what Mach said, and this is what Mach did me, if you don't mind me saying, what you've just interpretation of Einstein's interpretation of read a word of Mach. So here are these people who but they've never read his book. Lyle Speaking Janus Point, and the link will be on screen and on it. We're going to get to what the crux of this since this book. Maybe evolved is the incorrect but you understand. Let's make this extremely and there's the moon, okay, it's moving toward the by Mach when he says that there's something that's distant. Explain it in terms of this book just people supposed to understand what is Mach saying? you see it moving relative to everything else. to your face, the lamps, and the background. His idea of physics is not reductionist, it's last material body or bit of matter in the whole mine relative to all the matter in the universe. he made possible reductionist physics. You could and time, and you don't have to worry about work was always being done with things that the of free fall, what he actually did was he got a slight angle, and then he had a smooth ball which to mark equal distances that had been traversed. and he used the amount of water that was collected law said that in the first instant of time, it in the next five. Galileo called that the law material, which had been created by the universe absolute space and time with no features around our theories rely are done with such materials. and you really have to take into account how they complete explanation. Lyle So hold up that stapler use the word inertia, but initially when talking me understand what's meant by inertia. Is inertia Is inertia resistance to being pushed? What is moving in a straight line at one of these inertial defined back in the 1880s. That's inertial motion. is again, I would say, where Einstein made a mess. pointed out that Newton's definition of mass was definition of mass, which I think still stands at high school learn. It's illustrated with whatever it is, white ice or something. So you bump into each other and they give each other accelerations to each other, which you can say are one particle gets, one ball gets an acceleration ratio of those accelerations. And that is what then if you take one of those two and do the same mass for that third ball. And then you do it with one, and you get a consistent system. It's what So this is really how Mach defined inertial mass. things there. And very few people take the trouble two quite different meanings of inertia. One is when you've got one of these inertial frames always involves interaction between two things. out, to every action there's an equal and opposite And I don't think it's ever been improved since it. And what precisely did Einstein become turns out he didn't do it, but it turns out you other that resistance to motion was due to there get infinitely far away from, or ever further away motion would disappear. And in fact, it is true this, there are mathematical models where you can it's not Newtonian gravity, but you can have a And when two of them get, if two of them are collection of particles, that's the bulk of your that, they will have a certain speed as they go you can measure it when it's close to it. When faster. The effective gravitational force is much their resistance to motion is much less. And that the mass ratios, you still need Mach's definition. by a German called Treider. He was from East perhaps the 1970s or something like that. And I've called Dennis Brown, who has been working on this but you still need to specify a mass with any of through the mutual accelerations that bodies that really describes the whole universe, I think interesting model, and I think it has done a lot that he's writing about this, will get published will help to clarify the issue. Lyle So let's go imagine now that there are thousands of particles, infer the mass based on the acceleration? Is that particle has the property of mass, you infer mass on accelerations. The accelerations imparted other. It would be much more complicated if you've because you can get a situation where you have in the background. I mean, this is what happens in balls moving across the smooth table. You can do this mean that in a two-particle universe, that in a two-particle universe, you can't do nothing to describe what's going on. I mean, I three particles, and then you can do an amazing you can get across with just three particles. Lyle not it. It would see nothing. I mean, I use three because it's wonderful how much you can get but two particles don't have a shape. Lyle Okay. same as the triviality of a one-particle universe? is it even slightly more interesting in the first of all, if you imagine you've got a ruler far they are apart. The only sense in which--but sitting on top of each other or they're separate. it would be difficult to see those two. So for me, make sense. Now, of course, you get--one of the make sense is these wonderful discoveries of according to Newton, they go in Keplerian you would never be able to say they were doing the fixed stars and the rotation period of the laws were not confirmed--this was back in confirmed relative to absolute space and absolute rotation period of the Earth to define time. mechanism by which something here that's local it's in geometry. I would say that just in there are correlations. If you have n particles between them, and the number of those, it's those number of numbers. Now suppose somebody but you've been given the numbers. Well then you lot of algebraic relations. Certain quantities, to zero. This is what's called distance some Greek whose name I forget, had a formula terms of its sides. And that's expressed through particles lie on a line, then that determinant is separations are in a one-dimensional Euclidean a mathematician showed that if you have four out of those distances between the four particles them. But if that determinant vanishes, it tells flattened down into two dimensions. So I would particles. They are just, the distances between geometry. And by the way, this is very similar to that in quantum mechanics with entanglement, where some fact over here, later on, you can find that is, people think this is very mysterious because but no information can be sent by means of that of looking, establishing what's there. And I think I've just described. So I wonder whether the most just a reflection of the fact that we're talking up on Carlo Rovelli's relational interpretation of Carlo's a good friend, but I'm not, I have to say, really describe, for my satisfaction, what are I may also say that his use of the word relational I was getting increasingly aware that people were relativity or general relativity with what Mach I wrote a paper, it came out in 1972, which said, of Space and Time, in which I said we need to happen, exist at a given instant, that my hand like that. That's nothing to do with Einstein's that distinction should be made and we needed to took it over from me and Carlo took it over from taken it over from Carlo and otherwise. So I think word relational coming in there. But I must say, I the theory is not complete because it... In the end, don't think he defines them sufficiently clearly. paper in great detail. So I think that's about all it's an infinite regress of relations. So what's the relations that define those or other That could well be. I am at the moment with my He's German despite the somewhat Polish sounding we call complexity when there are not just a particles. And I think that's a very interesting there is something that's being related, I'm trying to start with the absolute world made of that could possibly explain all the simplest conceivable one, I think, is point all have the same mass. They could be equal mass one could explain all the structure of the because that's the mystery of consciousness. the ratio of the distance between your eyes from that's what I would call the structure. And then I the color of your eyes and the shape of your nose This is, I would say, the gift of consciousness. in space. Have you ever looked at the famous book what the Greek atomists really said has more or Roman poet Lucretius in the first century BC, De very interesting there, because what the atomists explain all the extraordinary shape that there are heavens and seeing the constellations and putting halfway through Lucretius' poems. It's a very long explain all these different shapes? He wants to why all sheep look much the same, why there are what he does in the English translation I seed. He talks about primordial seeds. He doesn't because every shape that he sees he invokes a seeds are the Greek atoms, indivisible things, shapes. They also have relative sizes. After because he turns to the next thing he wants type of primordial seed with a different shape. and where that comes from, and that's because he smoothest seeds of all that are running around in task of science that the Greeks anticipated was rather than the size of things. So I always start of a triangle and the size of a triangle. things have a size. In fact, I think it's when They just imagine that there's a ruler outside the But the way I like to put it, suppose you know where our body parts are. It's a very wonderful two inches apart and that if I move my muscles, and I'll feel the impact when they come together. I've got a ruler. Well, I can put the ruler and somewhere behind me. But suppose the triangle can see the other two vertices. Well what it will far away they are. So if the triangle is aware of and that add up to 180 degrees. That's, I think, which is the smallest triangle? Well, it's are equal. But then as the triangle gets I'm going to take the shortest side to measure more and more pointed, those other two will get it's getting bigger, it's expanding. So this is of the triangle without a ruler outside it. And I expansion of the universe. LBW Okay, so let's make triangle and we have no measure of size, you're said the equilateral triangle is the smallest. And well, how the heck can you measure the size of an no ruler? And how the heck can an equilateral some isosceles triangle or some other form of at all of the angles. Let's choose the smallest like the inch, let's say. And then you measure all one. RH Yes, actually, it would have to be one I did actually talk about the size, but better but I divide one by the smallest angle. And then size gets bigger and bigger. Now that's singling complexity, which takes into account all. Now, you can put them on the screen, because then I size. In fact, it's the slide number one, if you give me a minute to do so. Please explain to the so that they can contextualize it. Is it shape do you call your theory? And then just give the back in, it's 25 years ago, I coined the key Tim Skolovsky, and I now see in some ways, more It's all about understanding the nature of shapes things in terms of separations. So we start off by the particles are apart. And then we're going to, that ruler. So I've written it down for, first of one, two, and three. But then there can be any particles. You can take as many particles as you between the particles, r12, r13, r23, and so complexity is, first of all, the square root of That's a number which we call the root mean separation is a length. So I've squared all the I take the square root. So that's a length. And just one divided by each of those separations. So expression, which I call the complexity, is it by. It's scale invariant. LBW Yes, I see that. with a little bit of an effort, they'll work the square root, and then it'll be an a squared I asked how is because it's not clear why scale you saying that if it's independent of a ruler, it's quite easy. If I just take one of my it's hidden somewhere underneath all my papers. says inches, I'll get a certain value. If I use I get a completely different value for the r. So arbitrary choice of the unit on the two sides does. LBW Okay. So now the one underneath it? LBW add masses. LBW So each particle then has masses. one. And then these are pure numbers. In both You don't need to have a scale to find what the those things. Now, I would say this is what I call a very small role in physics. Let me read you Method. Does that come out mirror image? Or you I can see it fine. It shows a mirror to you, but the first decade of the last century, he's suppose that in one night, all the dimensions The world will remain similar to itself if we the third book of Euclid. Only what was formerly a was a millimeter long will now become a meter. The will have grown in the same proportion. When I face of such an astonishing transformation? Well, the change only exists for those who argue aware of this problem. But Poincare, one did nothing about it. He did not produce something the shape does. But this is exactly what that that you showed or maybe still showing. So what's you have particles distributed in space and you simplest possible way the extent to which they're that expression that complexity is, I think, just use to do it. And I think it's an extraordinarily the suspicion that it might be the most important been ignored up to now. Well, the first thing, I this definition, and this is how I did come to it. some of Leibniz's philosophical writings, this writings, 60 years old or something. I first read on me. And Leibniz said, without variety, there couldn't see anything. The whole of our existence Leibniz was a perfectionist. So he said, what we than any other possible universe. So in his famous is more varied than any other possible universe, so far as I know, nobody had ever given that Smolin to Leibniz's ideas. And he came up with up with a slightly different one. But then after and mine, was not very satisfactory because it was look at Leibniz's philosophy, it's not so much but that it's striving to become ever more varied. definition of variety increase would be just by be able to get that by changing the separations lookout for something that would do that. And been interacting already for 12 years with some universal gravitation, that discussing with one that they call the shape potential or the would characterize variety. Are you still showing whether you can show it again, Curt. LBW Yeah, bring it up. If you look at that expression and it will react to clustering. So the first, all the two or three particles, I'm imagining lots or three get closer to each other, that doesn't and it's not very much. But in the second factor, very sensitive. That increases hugely if just two if they coincide, it becomes infinite. So that So that's exactly the sort of effect that I maybe it would have been better to call it what is very interesting about that expression, masses, the second one, except for the sign, is the gravitational potential from which the famous other one is the quantity which measures the size that's n particles, a finite number n of all about how those two numbers change. And lo and Leibniz's idea that without variety, there would start with. So if we want to prioritize scale like Newton's potential or with additions We have the square root of m1 times m2 times similar. You could also have chosen the cubed root any to the n. And I'm sure there are a variety of as well as clustering being proportional to Well, I think there's a nice rule that Einstein got a new non-trivial idea, try it out first on about the simplest that you can get. Now, if you would get still the same sort of results invariant. The actual way you implement it, you ways, but the interesting thing is that there's an however you do it, and that's because of the key invariance. Okay, now what do you say to that doubled everything, every single thing, or tripled we wouldn't be able to tell? That seems to me but the standard model isn't scale invariant. So must say I am skeptical about the way cosmologists they do just imagine that it's as if there was in various ways with stretching elastic, and they and they talk about space expanding. I have to say gone into the standard model in particle physics, the absolute minimal ontology that we can possibly we can get with that. And I think we may not have long way from saying we've got a new theory have got. And I've got one or two more things just before we do that, a very key property of the that everything in it is positive. It's a positive being positive definite, it must have an absolute that absolute minimum is essentially always give it a name. I call that unique shape alpha. that shape is more uniform than any other possible an interesting thing. I should say that Richard very kindly made that image available to my The Janus Point. But if you're leaving I should acknowledge thanks to Richard Battye. dimension. You see an extremely uniform ball. I'm just be 500. It's a little bit difficult. You as if you were looking at a ball of them. And on And you'll see that it's not perfectly uniform, or it's certainly very, very close to the absolute you'll see that it's remarkably uniform. And of a famous theorem that Newton proved. Newton's stars like the sun are spherically symmetric. So outside a spherically symmetric mass distribution, is as if all the mass were concentrated at its it would be just the mass that's at less distance at the center, that's what you feel. So this the structure of the complexity is such that That shape is actually also called, well, it's got And it's also called a relative equilibrium. because if you think of that distribution particle is subject to exerted by all the others and increases, gets stronger with the distance. called a central configuration. And if it was just all start moving towards the center of gravity called a total collision. But the much better called a relative equilibrium because what is hook after the famous hook, H-O-O-K. It was also you can either say there are attractive the distance balanced by repulsive hook forces, the thing is held in relative equilibrium. But are repulsive gravitational forces and attractive way you think about it. So these are very in balance. And just to say again, how interesting one in two dimensions where that you don't have Newton's just holds in three-dimensional space and are one upon R squared. It doesn't hold under any could be a very fundamental hint to what is going there's the cosmologists, there's a holy grail it used to be called the Copernicususan principle, which is that if you look at a large enough other equally large region anywhere else in the that's called the cosmological principle. And got that in cosmology thanks to the theory it doesn't really actually go back to Newton's Because if you imagine you put a dime, a small shall we say that it's a 10th of the diameter shapes that look much the same. It would satisfy containing the particles, small spheres containing also look the same wherever you put the sphere, the rim. So that's pretty interesting. That comes that we call the complexity. The specialists in normalized Newton constant. And it is actually interest that happens in the Newtonian n-body what counts. It's that this quantity, what I call the shape potential. And so, and you can, the specialists in the field know about this They were first discovered in 1907 by a Finnish first person to ask, in Newton's theory, is it once at their center of mass? And he proved that mathematics, subject to some very interesting zero. There must be no overall rotation in the collision, the shape must become very special. whatever the mass is, or it must become a there are three of those because one particle can mass is. So that's very, very interesting. And that Sundman's result is exactly the same thing happens if there are any number of particles. And work both way in time. So instead of thinking it's going the other way. And then it becomes And this is 20 years before Hubble publishes the isn't thought-provoking, I don't know what is. And about these facts. Lyle Troxell So are you saying which different people in different fields call it the N-body people call it. If you minimize this, action. If you minimize this, that is the state slice of time or instance. I'm not sure what if you accept my idea that there are Newtonian Big very special shapes. And in particular, they that alpha. So it would be very like the So that would be the first instant of Bang. Lyle Troxell So looking at this image with one is more sparse on the right. You're saying the right is the section through, the equatorial if you were to speak, if it was a swarm of swarm of bees. Lyle Troxell So what we're actually just points. That's right, yes. It's a 3D version 500. Lyle Troxell Sure. Lyle Troxell But you see odd that it's smooth? So you're saying that it's just trying to populate it with some uniform You started out with something else and it became is worth telling. It all goes back to Leibniz I think variety is the most important thing in the characterizes that variety. And I found it, lo And then I later on discovered, well, I did know bit later, I discovered that actually there are start, well, the most interesting Newtonian big special shape. And the most interesting ones start more or less directly to a Newtonian big bangs, progress, as time passes in the way we think of structured, more ordered. And so that is the exact which says that the universe goes from being we've got exactly the opposite behavior coming out The Janus Point, is about. We are challenging the, that the only way to explain our sense of is that entropy is increasing, that disorder is Newton's theory that it's the exact opposite. Now, universes, subsystems can form, clusters can form. form within them, and as they form and then decay, what's called virialize, which is characteristic we are deriving the second law of thermodynamics read you what the famous English astronomer The law that entropy always increases holds, of nature. If your theory is found to be against no hope. There is nothing for it to collapse in that Einstein said on thermodynamics. He said, It which I am convinced that within the framework of overthrown. Now the interesting thing is Einstein of its basic concepts. And I think this is a point think people have just completely forgotten what valid. And that goes back to how thermodynamics 1824, wrote this wonderful little book on the out conditions under which steam engines operate 26 years later to the discovery of the first two working if the steam escapes from the cylinder. at the wonderful definition of entropy by Rudolf the size of the box is slowly changed and you absolutely critical the box is there. And then if of thermodynamics, starting also seriously with then Gibbs, they all assume molecules in a box. walls of the box elastically. And nobody, and I'll seriously asked, what happens if the box is not point is. Things are just completely different. people haven't thought about that. Can you please or at least your measure of complexity? And we there are a variety of measures of complexity like There are also a variety of measures of entropy, don't know if you're referring to all of these between your measure of complexity and entropy your complexity is associated with order. So as big bang, the complexity increases, and with it, is not a scale invariant concept, whereas our put a system in a box that immediately introduces the box. You've then got ratios. The separations the diameter of the length of the box. Now, if define probabilities meaningfully. If you have a of getting the king of hearts is 1 over 52. But if in, the chance of getting any one particular card, be zero. Now, Einstein, let me quote somebody physics, Einstein called him the greatest American Willard Gibbs. And Gibbs in this famous book here, he develops how you do it. He has his result, then says, he has his caveat, he says that there probability vanishes and the law of distribution example of a deck of cards with infinitely many if there are infinitely many cards in that case. basic principles, what was Einstein's words? basic concepts. He didn't say what the framework that the system cannot become distributed in of the individual particles become infinitely situation where you're talking about a phase space like my infinitely many cards in a deck of cards. it's just the same in quantum mechanics, because if you're going to define probabilities in Hilbert states in that Hilbert space. If you've got one you won't get proper probabilities. So I think it don't think the universe is in a box. Or it's very so what happens in the Newtonian theory is that with growth of disorder. It's quite the opposite. So I tell you what we could look at. Let me show that's called shape sphere first. Okay. So now which corresponds to a triangle, is that two you can represent, there's a representation of all as points on the surface of a sphere. So the three equal mass particles. And the particles that are mirror images of each other. The equilateral and south pole. And the collinear configurations there are six special points. Three of them That's when two particles get much closer so that you divide the distance to the and then that becomes infinite. Those are singular they are saddle points of the complexity. They're the shape sphere. And then on it, you will see values of the complexity. It has its absolute the complexity growing. And as it gets to high. So that's the shape sphere. So this is like the key thing about it is it's what you call a it's non-compact. If you don't take out the scale, space. It has infinite measure. But when you and you literally see it there. And moreover, this a uniquely defined distance on it. There's which is actually a measure of the difference a difference of shape. So the shape sphere has actually seriously talk about probabilities. triangles which occupy just some small patch. I Then its area is a fraction of the total of the that the shape lies within that patch. So is that to... So let me just say one other thing first. here that a famous problem that Lewis Carroll, the as a mathematician posed. He said, given I can tell you what the probability is that a triangle with one angle more than 90 degrees. and quite a lot of different, seemingly a few months ago, a group of students in answer using this probability measure. And they And then one of them looked online and found that had published a paper giving that result seven exchange with me, he said somebody else had got on shape. There are probabilities of shapes. So in conventional proposal to find quantum gravity. de Witt wrote down an equation, not for shape, configurations. So his wave function would be he found that the wave function would be static. all sorts of ideas. And the first one was de Witt internal time. So a typical internal time would be be the measure of time, and then see how the So I did something which was very conventional. shape, and I took our quantity, the complexity. once you get away from the start of the Big Bang pretty steadily, linearly. And so I suggested the complexity. And I wrote down in my paper, I actually proposed a time-dependent Schrodinger unique solution, and that's to do with the fact unique shape, which has the absolute minimum of the whole story. So then I thought there would be shape space. But then my two main collaborators, that actually that wave function would have the I thought that makes the theory trivial. And trivial because there's this probability measure looks exactly like the Born density in quantum any wave function. So this is why Koslovsky and I is any quantum mechanics at all, whether So once you get rid of this idea that there's or at least Newtonian quantum gravity should be you can do without the wave function and has got to be emergent in some sort of way. the perihelion precession of Mercury? Do you No, I've got some very, very speculative ideas, Let me just say something. You're extremely this channel. Well, let me say something about Feynman says it's really the entire mystery of So before I say that, let me say something else the evidence that the founding fathers of quantum function? All the evidence was in the form of is... they're sort of generalized photographs. evidence for quantum mechanics is essentially in be computer printouts and things like that. This that in the end, you have to describe the outcome, classical terms. So what they assumed... so very chambers. So a cloud chamber that Wilson had super saturated, and suddenly he noticed these these tracks, these curved tracks. If there was essentially, what the founding fathers were trying before the photograph is taken, there were at the same time as a wave function was evolving were very much under the influence of de Broglie's the positions of the particles relative to each it shows the particles. And then they essentially, I believe it's fair to say, was deduced from that that the same fact, the same information, evidence Suppose some deity outside the universe takes a the universe with just one particular value of the an eigen value in the time independent Schrodinger those shapes. There's lots of shapes with that that are much more probable than have a higher those shapes, you might find in one of them, just And then the photograph would have a totally sense rely upon a wave function or Planck's a given value of the complexity. So that is their heads when I say that. But now think about one of those photographs could show the two-slit which whatever these particles are that are being two slits, and it could show emulsion on which the be, so to speak, Bayesian priors. That would be but you don't yet look at the emulsion. And ah, there are these impact things there So maybe it's just a case of correlation. I was that geometry just puts there. So maybe if you the two-slit experiment, lo and behold, you will I've now started looking, checking out. experiment with extremely low density, I where actually there can only have been individual And then there was another, a more experiment made Dirac made his famous comment that each photon the setup for these things, already just reading it's incredibly special, very, very special incredibly special setup forces correlations the interference patterns? Let me read another patterns were created by the experimentalists. looking around the universe that you would easily again, from I think it's his 1922 book on strange footprint on the shores of the unknown. We to account for the origins. At last we have that made the footprint. And lo, it is our own. an incredibly special situation were actually what It's not impossible. I listen extremely carefully, used the word gift when speaking about experience God. I think about a year or a bit over a year which has made me sort of think about these things now that there is something incredibly amazing sounds and the colors and the things. I don't like William Blake, hated Newton and science Newton took away everything, all the sights and but Bishop Berkeley, the idealist. So Bishop and God implants ideas in these minds. And an to checking the etymology of idea. Any idea what for a pattern, a shape. So going back to what they wanted to have a theory of shapes. So I think with a triangle, but going up to any tetrahedron, somehow or other consciousness for us gives us so forth. Now, whether this makes me more inclined I did now start checking out the etymology of also related to sky. The island of the sky in the all tied in. I guess it's our idea of wonder where I think it's Sanskrit word diva for a god, these All I can say is it's pretty damn wonderful. do like the idea that I'm getting more and more creates that structure. And they couldn't even you some idea that they're a bit like tiny billion mathematical points. By the way, it's interesting there is just a historical leftover. So, when any body continues in a state of rest or uniform force. But already he, but then explicitly the Euler and Lagrange in the 18th century, they were is actually point particles. So, what I like about only quantities that come in are the separations invariant by dividing by that root mean square numbers. So, really, that's what the first great So, I'm now coming, but I mean, I have to say, ideas have only come to me in the last day or Maybe we should look much more seriously at the these observations are playing. I've already it's unbelievable, the tiniest little thing in about radio telescopes, or these incredible in northern Chile. I mean, these are very, very that the experiments are just discovering what is they're playing a significant role in creating point with the two-slit experiment. The two-slit very special part of a shape. That's required. So, all of them, electron microscopes, are playing a I come back to what Eddington said, you know, our own. Well, there are some interpretations as the creator of the results. There's the Wheeler cover the top 10 most common interpretations of them all extremely intuitively. There are a such as what it means to explore ill-defined you don't understand, end quote, is a foolish The website, c-u-r-t-j-a-i-m-u-n-g-a-l.org, just search my name and sub-stack. It's free, podcast episodes released ahead of time there. something along those lines, you're right. I such a fan of etymology, do you know the etymology But wait a minute, I said the etymology of idea etymology of pattern? The etymology of pattern is etymology of matter? That's sort of, that's bulk Matter eventually comes from mother. Oh, that's can think of this world, speaking of speculative need a mother, you need pattern, you need matter, maybe that has something to do with the threeness yes, yes. Now these are very, I may also say, just at the observatory in Paris who's been such a etymology, he suddenly turned to me and said, no, very good points, Curt. Yes, no, these are what is the etymology of chaos? Do you know that with a K and not a C-H, and it has something to and what bounded the boundary, or what gave you're quite right. So first of all, our modern it's from Ovid very much later. So, when you go where there's a gap between matter, a chasm, but like breathing. Yes. Okay. Yeah. No, well, not so this is, there was a very interesting talk about a year or so ago. Like a yawning chasm, I get it. what the N-body problem is about, because you have is very interesting, I agree. Certainly the father I have to get going and you have to get you. And I appreciate you dealing with all much. It's been a blast. All right. Next time especially about the Janus point, the itself from Sean Carroll's double-sided past but I'll have to wait. I don't know what went but something didn't work with the mic. Thank update. Started a Substack. Writings on there are as well as some other mathematical details. Much isn't anywhere else. It's not on Theories full transcripts will be placed there at some hey Curt, you've spoken to so many people in and consciousness. What are your thoughts? While is a way to peer into my present deliberations The Economist. Firstly, thank you for watching. or clicked that like button, now is the time to helps YouTube push this content to more people, aka me. I also found out last year that external which means that whenever you share on Twitter, it shows people are talking about this content the distribution on YouTube. Thirdly, there's Theories of Everything, where people explicate and build, as a community, our own TOE. Links to know this podcast is on iTunes, it's on Spotify, to do is type in Theories of Everything and you'll lectures and podcasts. I also read in the comments So how about instead you re-listen on those whichever podcast catcher you use. And finally, this, more content like this, then do consider donating with whatever you like. There's also joining on YouTube. Again, keep in mind, it's me to work on TOE full-time. You also get early or video. It's audio in the case of Patreon, video that you're listening to right now was released than you think. Either way, your viewership