You have followed her career. You read her magazine. She is one of the most in the world. Yesterday, I had the privilege in front of a mesmerized And we learned that the that we associate did not begin with her Radio in Nashville while or at the age of 19 when person and the first to anchor the news at It began in the third grade report in ahead of time, to always do a little bit when she learned that as a child of God. And success has been her story news in Baltimore, to becoming People Are Talking, then to month she upended the reigning And within a year, she was with what became the highest history. In 1988, she established making her the third woman industry after Mary Ball to own her own studio. With a winning track record of including Dr. Phil, Rachael Ray, Berkus Show, not to mention the our speaker owns the most in daytime talk and today is of her own network. Her secret to success which we had the opportunity yesterday. She so generously And that authenticity comes to her source, capital S Source. We witnessed that very as she so generously shared What I know for sure is that she We were pleased to honor in 1993. And, today, we who truly changes the world as Oprah Winfrey. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Thank you. Spelman. [CHEERING] Woo, woo, woo, woo. Look at you. Look at you. I have to say thank to the trustees, and our distinguished all of the family in the house. Thank you, friends It is my exquisite delight the 125th graduating As I stand before you, I in your eyes. I feel in the rhythm of I feel your desire. I feel you're yearning to do I congratulate I'm so happy that to spend 2 and yesterday because filled with what I do successful in life that I knew I wouldn't be able speech. So I've tried to condense aren't you glad what I feel really matters and I did a lot of thinking all because you are me. You represent who I and who I can be in the world. And so my prayer is that that the words will flow that when the times get tough Yesterday, I heard the That Glee Club, But, yesterday, and I don't know the but the lyrics were of our grandmother's prayers And we came on the That feels like the truth to me. That song resonates know that to be true where I stand because and dreamed for me. And I come trailing the And what I want is what two of my favorite and Maya Angelou have said to the prayers and the dreams. Your crown has been paid for. Put it on your head and wear it. [APPLAUSE] You're going to walk out of has been paid for not just but paid for by the blood and the sweat from the and the sorrows from the paid for by the sit-ins and paid for by those who, Brown, strong men kept coming getting stronger, paid for, in by those who knew going to be no crystal stair. It was going to have tax in it All the time, they would Landon's and going in the no light because even though or tasted freedom, they seeds of the tree that would This is their day as well. [APPLAUSE] And so today you get of the great-great-grandmothers but my great-great-granddaughter walk across a stage called as a liberated, educated woman. Today's your day. Never forget that you did You come here today trailing and the breath of the angels. As I spoke yesterday, I that you Spelman women And the three things that I these three. I could do 10. I could do a whole life class. But just these three things First and foremost, Knowing who you are. Being able to answer and what do I want? Many times when I go I am baffled by that what is your occupation? I've stood there for 10 minutes. Well, am I a talk show host? Well, I'm more than Am I a businesswoman? I'm a businesswoman. I'm more than a businesswoman. Am I an entrepreneur? I'm more than an entrepreneur. So I just leave it So I'm not asking for the roles I'm not asking that question. What are the roles that you as a sister? You're going to be a lawyer. You're going to teach. You're going to be a pharmacist. I'm asking the bigger Who am I, really? My answer is, I am God's child. I am that which is I am, as Pierre de Chardin a human experience come trailing yet but trailing the And understanding that to the source of all that is possible for me. That's who I am. And what do I want? I don't want to just be I don't want to just make The answer to that is, I want to fulfill the of myself as a human being. I want to fulfill the promise when he dreamed the What do I want? You must have some kind Even if you don't have to have a direction I never was the kind of woman and just go for a ride. I had a boyfriend who would I want to know, Do we have a destination? Is there a plan, or What I've learned is, that's You want to be in the because if you're not, So knowing who you really that we embody, What do you want? Who are you? Number two, you must Martin Luther King said that but everybody can be is determined by service. Now, we live in a world where and where we admire people We think being known The truth is, all of In three years, you the housewives of Atlanta. The real truth is that that you bring to your service So to be able to, whatever your or gift is-- our honorees today two apparently opposite and the spoken word. But what they have using the spoken word in service using your knowledge and and medicine in And if you look at all the most whether they know have that paradigm of service. Everybody's talking about Service. Jay-Z rapping. Service. Through the word to For many years, I was really and people would stop Yeah, I'm on TV. I like being on TV. It's a nice job. And it was about the time that from Spelman around 1993. So I don't know if that had I thought of myself Then I went back, and at what it was I was doing on was no longer going but I was going to use TV as a and not be used by TV. And I will tell you-- [APPLAUSE] --my decision to make in the way I operated on as a service changed my Service through medicine, Using whatever it is you as a way of giving When you shift the is you choose to do to service to that, success will-- I promise you-- follow you. Service and significance That's number two. Number three, it's so Always do the right thing. Always. [APPLAUSE] Be excellent. People notice. Think of how you notice. You go to Taco Bell, somebody and some sauce, you notice. You want to go because even at Taco Bell, Be excellent. Let excellence be your brand. Everybody talks about I never even knew what that was. When people would say, no, I'm just Oprah. What I recognize now in every way, in every example, the right thing and is what has created the brand. Years ago, I did an ad for called Unforgettable Women. And what I know is that you become unforgettable. People remember you. You stand out. Regardless of what it is, you and that is what we all want. We want to be unforgettable So doing the right nobody knows you're will always bring the I promise you that. Why? Because the third law of For every action, there's an That is so true in That's what Newton said. Celie in The Color Purple try to do to me, Everything you even try to do So you don't have to worry at somebody, making You just have to And the right thing when people don't support it. I remember many there are many shows And the reason you is because I got the last vote. And I remember, 2010, my in television, had with a woman who a Sunday school teacher by And they were like, we got her going out, and and we get to show willing to show us everything. I sat down with the woman for And during the process I said, why are you doing this? And she said, oh, I I want to tell my story, I said, do you have children? She says, yes, I have I knew right then this is never So we got off the air, we are not going And she said, why? My producer said, why? She knew she was being filmed. She knew what she was saying. I said, because her son Her son will never get over it. And it's not worth the Not worth the rating that there's a destroyed because his mother and told all her business. You do the right thing think it may not be. And oftentimes when you make a immediately, you're Was that the right thing? Was that the right decision? I don't know. Was that the right thing? You always know it's the there is peace. You are rewarded that you did the right thing. The most important to know in doing the right thing is understanding what we All of you leaving here have the There's a price that People don't always like you. And they're not And if you surround who are not accustomed to your They become scared because you to them that they Now, they're not very fearful because you were I don't recognize. They're going to say-- you know what They're going to say, Who she thinks she is? That only happens when who do not mean and want and People who want the best for So my greatest advice to with people who are until your cup runneth over. So when people say, you're you can say yeah. Yes, I'm full. I'm so full my cup runneth over. And to know that once you cannot spend your life offering them to [APPLAUSE] You have got to with gallon-sized in the same company with you your gallons to out there who can't &quot;Choice to Change the I love hearing you And what I know for sure begin and end with you, Who do I want to My relationship to source I'm not talking about I'm talking about of that which is all life, I'm talking about the big deal, with that. When you are tuned in and you feel empty, you and you connect to the that all things are possible. To know that. And to choose to in service and significance. I promise you you will for yourself first because you You have to give Otherwise, you have You will create a for your family, your And those three lead you to a blessed life. I stand as a witness. My life is so blessed. I can't even take It will lead you not and a rewarding life that That's what you want. You want the sweetness. You want it to be so sweet come-- and they will-- you'll know this too shall pass. This too shall pass. The storm is passing over. And you shall not be moved When you can do that, grace will And when they see you coming, They say it's the It's the bend of your hair. It's the palm of your hand. It's the need for your you are Spelman women. [APPLAUSE] Phenomenally phenomenal Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you.