[instrumental music] [Emma] Pre-meeting today, team, those reports and we need to get I'll expect those next week. -Emma, here's your first cup. Did you call the Sunset Lodge I was just about &quot;By failing to prepare, you are Mm-hmm. Oh, my gosh, there's -Good. No. -How's my breath? I'll get these. Bye. I'm so looking forward I have booked the Sunset Lodge and I have made arrangements I have also made arrangements for there to be outdoor dining and indoor dining if it rains. Great. I know I can That's the kind of forethought Forethought is my middle name. I thought it was Judith. Well, whatever it is, on your name plate There's a special assignment Let's talk about it first thing -See you there. Judith? You reveal my weakness. Wait, weekly coffee Hold all your calls. [instrumental music] -Em! And you ordered me -Your favorite. And you ordered cake. All right, what's going on? Um... Oh, do you need money? New business venture? -You're going back to school! I think tonight is going to be Okay. Why? Well, you remember Tom, right? Is he the one or is he the one Ha-ha, very funny. No, he works in real estate and he's tall and sweet-- Oh, yes, how could I forget? He's the one that over-uses But it's kind of cute and we've been together now and... I think W-wow. Ahem. T-that's-that's-that, um... It's great. You're getting engaged. -&quot;I love you!&quot; I'm-I'm-I'm very happy for you. I'm-I'm just, I'm already because I'm gonna need I don't need you I just need you to be my sister. -I'm getting engaged! I'm getting engaged! Mom would be so proud right now. Oh, I can't believe it, is getting engaged before me. I can't believe my big sister is about to make partner Shh, shh. Uh-uh. -Okay. -It's a work retreat. And it is in three days, Right, gotta be early. The early bird gets the worm. And besides, the more hard work More successful you'll become. Okay, I'm gonna go up there, I'm going to nail that and I'm gonna come back partner. I am finally on the final steps six months early, too. Is getting married I'm focused on my career [gasps] Which reminds me. I need to get started Em. What? I'm a lawyer. And over 50 percent of marriages Well, can we not talk about It's always better [instrumental music] Liam! Liam, there you are. I was asking for you Mr. Powers, if you're here I told you, it's not for sale. I'm offering you a fair price. -You could walk away a rich man. Well, you're up to your eyeballs The Sunset Lodge has been in My grandfather built it, and I intend to keep it. And I'd hate So if you sell it to me, It's not gonna happen! [sighs] Do you even have anybody Yeah, I sure do, Been coming here every year Hi, Gail. Hi, Bruce. Spotted a pair of golden eagles Very rare. You got 24 rooms over 35 acres, a staff of five Actually, we have a corporate And after that? Unless you plan I'd ask you It's your property, for now. If you change your mind, [instrumental music] [Emma on voicemail] from Hollings and Associates. We booked the lodge I will be coming early to ahead. So can you please Also, I emailed I will need Oh, and is your pasta Again, this is Emma Rogers. This is the third message so please call me back Thank you. Buh-Bye. Okay, everybody, this weekend This is the most people If we nail this, we open up So, Chef Blake, Our first option for the evening is a duck confit followed by marinated and finished off -Well, in the morning-- You got it covered, that there's enough Dana, how are events? Well, there's yoga every morning And given that I thought a meditation in the afternoon could be nice. Oh, and s'mores at night, 'cause nothing says rustic [Liam] Brilliant. I put new sheets fresh flowers in all the rooms, the mini-bars are stocked, and we have enough alcohol Great. We'll have a lodge full I folded all your laundry Mom, that's not Okay, well, Brandon here and is about to start Okay, that's everything. Well, Emma Rogers, you're in All right, everybody, [Brandon] I am gluten-free. I don't think I've ever met [Liam] Oh, man, -Yeah, yeah, they really are. Can you hand me that blue tape -If you don't mind. Yeah, I'm almost [Brandon] Looks good. So this Emma Rogers lady who sent a box up-- Who sends a box that big? Someone who can't fit it all Right? You told her that Yes, but she also that the conference room -It is. We have a back-up generator that there's a power outage. -We do. Oh. &quot;Gourmet coffee, dairy free dessert, She wants the Wi-Fi password? I mean, who needs Internet Actually, can I have Bulldozer on site? In case we get rained in Yeah, well, that's one thing this time of year, the rain. Well, so what do you want me Don't worry about it, I'll take -Have you seen my mom anywhere? Last I saw her, In the woods again? Mom! Yeah. Wow, that colored cream Yeah, well, Oh. Do you need any help I'm pretty handy with a brush. No, no, thanks, I got it. Um, actually, looks like so I'm gonna go get some more. Mm. Okay. Cool. That cream color That boy wouldn't know love if it hit him in the face. Tell me about it. I've liked him he doesn't even know I exist. Dana, you are beautiful Some guys are just clueless. You might have -Thanks, Jane, you're the best. -Whoa! What's in the box? I found him by the big oak He must've fallen Do you know It's a golden eagle. -Really? How can you tell? You see the long feathers and how they're rusty red? So cute. Hey there, -Ow! You have to be really careful, And I haven't seen one like this for a very long time I think he's bringing Come on, let's go. [instrumental music] Mrs. Hollings! Hi. -Emma! Always working late. I was just reviewing Um, I notice that it now says that she's selling I thought she was gonna keep it and he was gonna keep No, we discussed it. It's better for everyone They'll sell both properties Be sure and send the Wilsons My cousin will take good care Isn't that Everything's on the up and up. It's just one business -But-- We can't make business decisions Of course. [instrumental music] So? What do you think? It's even better than I finished it I think it adds All you did is change the salt? No two salts are created equal, -Y'all good in here? And the place is looking I can't thank you guys enough. This conference -I can feel it. I really hope -Some more of that. -Sparingly. Ah. Absolutely fantastic! -Absolutely! I didn't know you kept tabs Oh, I don't, but I sold the He still owes me, so we're What are you doing? I discovered this Hawaiian black lava salt recently and-- There's salt on the table. No, no, no, This one gives everything -You wanna try some-- Do you know how much Sorry. Mm. So, I have a little question Yes? Is your sister coming Oh. No, she's headed Great. Phew. [laughs] -A bullet? Emma is the ultimate party foul. Last barbecue she was on I tried to set her up Sweet smile, thick unibrow. Anyway, he told me she asked him -She just has her ways. No wonder Can you imagine being married for the rest of your life? Ugh. Hm. Oh, babe. Speaking [instrumental music] [instrumental music] [Liam] Aww... Oh, look at that. Sparks flying Those two have been madly in That's so sweet. I bet she's the big spoon Or not. Maybe you'll meet a nice and we can talk about Mom, I don't think But, you know, maybe Blake Food, for me, is my first love. Any woman for me has to love -That's a must. Got anyone special in your life? [scoffs] Who, me? Nah. Who am I gonna meet up here Of course, you never know. You're so sweet. Sometimes you have to see Speaking of right in front Yeah. Oh, it's.. Where is it? Hey, hey, seen a box that was in here? Um, uh, what did it look like? I mean, it was, It's-it's a box. It was addressed to Emma Rogers. -Oh. That box. Uh-oh. -What do you mean &quot;Uh-oh?&quot; I found a baby golden eagle that and I needed a big box Okay, where are the contents I threw them away. I th... I thought it was some old stuff Mom, ah, tha-that's the box that the lawyer lady Sweetie, They're endangered. Mom, I know, but I'm trying to save the lodge Ms. Emma &quot;Where's My Box&quot; Rogers -We have other boxes. -Don't be ridiculous. [engine revving] [instrumental music] [bell rings] [bell ringing] [instrumental music] This is unbelievable. So my mom used your box Isn't that sweet? So, we had a, a raccoon break in [blubbering lips] Oh, no, no. Um... You know, the mail Yeah. We never got it. I mean... Did you, did you say something What box? What did it look like? [engine starts] We never got the box. [engine revving] You must be Emma Rogers. I'm-- Late. Remind me to speak -Actually, I am-- as quickly as possible. Sure thing. Excuse me? Hop on. -On this? Isn't this Okay, your brochure said that Yeah, sure do. Okay, I wasn't prepared Unless you wanna walk down this is your ride. Come on. -Ooh, there are no seatbelts. -Hang on. [instrumental music] [Liam] How was the drive up? [Emma] A lot smoother than this. -Is that a rain drop? -Are those rain clouds? You don't hardly see They're endangered right now. [Emma grunting] Uh! Ooh, ooh! My umbrella! -Could you go back? -My umbrella! Nothing! Uh... You should really Ah, this is nothing. You should see these roads Not even the ATVs [chokes] I-I-I think I swallowed a bug. [Liam laughs] Oh! How much further Ah, we're just around the bend -Okay. Ah! All right. I'm holding on. I'm holding on. [music continues] [birds chirping] -Beautiful, right? [sighs] Now, where is [thunder rumbling] Oh. Um, okay-okay, what... -Okay, what's happening? It's just a summer shower, Come on, let's get inside. -Whoo! -Whoo! Wow. Well, here, I can't accept that. Sorry-- Oh, my gosh. Are you both okay? -Ah, thank you. The forecast estimates ten inches of rain. -Ten inches? Unbelievable! -Where did this come from? Well, this force of nature better not interfere Now, where is the box Oh, ten inches is a lot [Liam] They're gonna I think that this retreat Oh, no, no, no, buddy. No. You do not have the authority I booked this, I need this, and I would like to speak to Okay, what's so funny? Why is everybody Okay, somebody get me my box. -What room is she in? Thanks. Come on, [instrumental music] I would like to speak to the [Emma] Thank you. And please have my box -Yikes. Why didn't you tell me You never gave me Well, you had to tell me about my box. I'm sure it will turn up What's so important about a box? You wouldn't understand. Okay? [sighs] This retreat means Ugh! May I? Look, I don't wanna cancel I-I can't stay here. Okay, I need you to call me I don't think you understand They're closed both ways. So I am stuck here, with you. Yeah, the feeling Oh, oh, wait. Can you send a triple espresso Get it yourself. Unbelievable. [weatherman] over the next few hours. Cloudy tomorrow of precipitation. Well, looks like any new revenue streams -Sorry, everybody. -All my duck confit. Guys, cheer up. The sun never sets -[Emma] Oh. Well, I figured before it got too bad. So if one of you guys could just take me to, um, a bus stop or whatever you have out here... I'm not going out in that storm. Fine. If you won't take me, Goodbye, everybody. You can -[door opens] -[door shuts] Yeah, she'll come back. I hope. You got this. It's fine. You can do this all by yourself. [cell phone ringing] Oh. Oh, my gosh. Service. -Hello? I hear you're having Oh, yes, you can, uh, Who would have thought this time of year? So we're going ahead So sorry we won't be able to That's okay, I'm headed back Actually, there's something I Remember that special assignment -We can still get that done. My cousin is trying to get and the owner is holding on and won't sell. So that's why I was going to work my magic and But now that you're there I need you to take the lead. I don't know anybody but sure. If you can convince I guarantee you'll make partner. -Really? Yes, yes, of course, Of course, you can count on me. -Good. Oh! Wow, you made it You're lucky -Very funny. -I'm laughing at you. I got a, a call on the main road Yup, they won't be able until things dry up, on the list of priority So it looks like Yup. Looks like you are. Oh, we should get back -I can get that for you. But no thanks, Prince Charming. I think I can handle Fine. If you don't want -I don't. When you're tryin' to do it all Yes, but depending on people'll just lead to disappointment. [instrumental music] You know, I don't wanna carry so it kinda works out. Congratulations. -[rain pattering] -Oh. Boy, that's crazy. Oh, this is worse than You ever think you might actually Yes, of course, because I definitely that I'm sorry. You are? -You're right. Okay, look, I just, I had a lot You're not the only one that had I also know what it's like and plan for everything Since you're stuck here maybe you should just Why don't you get changed Oh. It just My clothes are soaked. We got something for you. Let's get you back -You ready? After you. [rain pattering] There was this total downpour, and I'm stuck here with this stupid... Wait. Are you crying? What? No. [Lacey sobbing] Tom proposed. Are these tears of joy? No... -No? No, you said no? When he proposed, I said no. Uh, w-what? What happened? Tom made a joke about being for the rest of his life, and it made me realize with someone like him Lace, I'm, I'm so sorry -[oven beeps] I feel sad, but... I also think I'm relieved. Like, I-I don't know. [sobbing] Hot. -Are you baking? Yeah, I used mom's recipe some berry-break-up-pie. I'm gonna eat my feelings. There's nothing Go have fun with your feelings. [Lacey] Okay. [birds chirping] [cell phone chimes] [door opens] Emma, I have something for you. Your freshly-pressed You didn't, Oh, it's my pleasure. I also I could see you weren't packed I wasn't exactly planning -Oh, wow! -Liam said you liked it. Do you wanna hear about We have group yoga. And then the Cunninghams and I are gonna have Last year Mrs. Cunningham won and I've just been waiting What's going on in here? Mom, you didn't just Oh, honey, hush. She loves it. -Good morning. I have fresh clothes Well, we aim to please. And I have one more thing -Right now? I would just like Okay. I'll be outside. Let's get ready to namaste. Okay, thank you for that. After you. Okay. What are we doing here? So I was scouring through You brought me here I found it. I got everything, I can fix the projector, give you back the box itself. What happened? My mom used your box Look, I'm sorry I know this isn't what -A baby eagle? Yeah, luckily, so she's nursing it back before releasing it Goes to show you -And a lot of hard work. Oops. Sorry. Oh, no, you're not Yeah, no need to be sorry, what happened to her box. Have either of you Ah. Right where I left it. -Yeah. Nice. I'm really glad Really? I thought you'd be mad. She's got a big heart, So is it just you and her? Yeah, my dad passed away I'm sorry. Both of my parents It's just me Uh, she actually Oh, wow. Congratulations. -No, no. She said no. Um, turns out he wasn't the one. And is there a one in your life? Oh, no. I'm married to my work. I'm looking to make partner, Was that a lawyer joke? Maybe. So is there a Mrs. Liam Oh, no, no, no. Oh. The old ball and chain. Yeah, you can say that again. Hey, this might sound but you wanna meet me for dinner on the patio this evening? Ah, I was just gonna order -If you have room service. But dinner on the patio Plus, there's a ton And I have a little surprise -No. No surprises. Because you can't prepare Well, basically yes. And the only person Because everyone else -I meant yes. Yes, I will have dinner -Okay, great! Okay, I didn't say yes But you'll never see it coming. -[scoffs] Give me my box. I'm gonna fix the projector. [instrumental music] Okay, all right, is to make partner at my firm. And all I have to do to get that is to convince this man which you can do. I can definitely do. I can do this. -Hey, Gail. Hi, Bruce. Ma'am... -Oh. -Thanks. This place is beautiful. Um, you got a lot of open space. You-you could have Oh, we used to do weddings, here 50 years ago. But I'm still busy The place takes a lot of upkeep. -About that-- Our first course this evening fresh from our garden. You have a garden? Yeah, we're all about Thank you. I, I didn't have a garden. Uh, growing up, I've always Well, I could give you if you'd like. So you said that it's really Oh, you have no idea. I mean, it looks like I don't know. You ever love doing something that it doesn't feel like work? You just don't seem I just wondered Well, we used to be busy were built along the waterfront. Took away a lot of our business. Well, have you There's this man to sell this place I mean, Well, w-why don't you take it? I don't care about money. This place has been in my family I wanna be able to pass it on -You want kids? Someday, but they are Now, you know what they say. Life happens Yes, but don't you think that emotional attachments prevent you from making Well, I've never been one I kinda just follow my heart. I'm the complete opposite. I found that especially business ones, Mm-hmm, it seems like if you're just practical Yeah, but if things don't you think it's better to start fresh Or you gotta fight -Touche. Did you know that oak trees -I did not know that, actually. And their trunks can be up to Well, how old do you think Well, I don't know, Mm! Wow! You are old, Mr. Tree. Well, before electricity. -Before trains. -Forever. Come on, [instrumental music] Oh, no. We have to cross the stream No, I, I do not do water. I promise -What if there are snakes? -What if I fall? What if I sink? -Not possible. -Clearly not deep. What if you trust me and Come on, it's worth it, [inhales sharply] [exhales sharply] Okay. Just nice and easy. One step at a time. You got this, okay? Okay! We're just gonna take a little, little easier Okay. -Just focus. Oh. See? Wasn't so hard, was it? Look how far you've come. Okay, we're almost there. Just two more steps. This place must be Yeah, it does feel like Or you could sell to that guy. [whistling] Why are you whistling? Ah, it's to scare away -Wait, there are bears here? There's no bears, mountain lions But if you do see any wildlife You be big, you be loud and you don't run, okay? -Okay. You're joking, right? Please be joking. It's crazy, all the sounds It's the greasy toads Every now and then [owl hooting] What was that? It's a great horned owl. Though it doesn't really have Unfortunately, has really declined out here. And so have the eagles. -That's too bad. And unfortunately, is on the endangered species I saw two of them on the way And with the one my mom saved, [coyote howling] And whenever I feel overwhelmed, I like to just come out here Let these sounds drown out about bills, repairs, money-- Cancelled conferences? Yeah, they all just fade away. -[water splashing] It's just a fish. Okay, city girl, -Watch out for the fishes, okay? [Liam chuckles] [Liam] Want some help? Will you do me the honors? I'd love to. You just gotta know Oh. Thank you for tonight. Well, I'm glad you enjoyed Well, I should, um, get to bed. I'll show you the garden -Okay. [instrumental music] [cell phone ringing] -Hello? -[Mrs. Hollings] Emma! -How's it going? Ah, good. It's good. Um, ev-everything's fine. [Mrs. Hollings] Oh, um, I-I don't, I don't think I just spoke to my cousin and he's dying to get his hands I'd really like to be able -I know, but... Then I help you. Everyone wins. Text me with updates. [instrumental music] Ugh! [birds chirping] [music continues] It really is beautiful here. You seem like [chuckles] I don't know, than when you first got here. Well, I figured, I might as well enjoy all this Before you get back Oh! Watch it. Uh, there's some place Look who's scheming now. -It's a surprise. [Emma gasps] Well, what are you doing? [rain pattering] [instrumental music] [thunder rumbling] [music continues] [laughing] [both chuckling] [music continues] [instrumental music] Blake, I'm taking Emma What do you think? Jane, guys. Come look at this. What? He's taking her to Sierra Point. -Yeah. Yeah. -[Blake] Marshmallows? Yeah, well, you gotta have it -Hotdogs? -She has a more refined palate. And are you planning on sleeping Okay, I hadn't thought that far. But you thought that warm beer goes great with chocolate bars. Okay, I'm no good at this. I got some grapes, some cheese and some rolls, Here's a bottle of wine that'll -Thank you. Nothing ruins a date -I wouldn't call it a date. Sometimes you have what's right in front of ya. -Okay. Think I got everything I'm still taking -Wish me luck. Thank you. Um, chef, let's go play some I think Liam and Emma are... Yes. I never would've guessed Yeah. Well, this place has a way Yeah, crazy. Oh, you got something Hm. [sighs] You've got to be [cell phone ringing] Oh. Uh, Mrs. Hollings. [Mrs. Hollings] Progress report. Uh, things are going Um, I can see why your cousin [Mrs. Hollings] Great. I'm still working on that, I was wondering if I could Well, we don't have much time. I just heard the roads What? Tha-that was really quick. I know, so we need to put while we have this leverage. Get it done, tonight. [instrumental music] [door opens] [Liam] City girl. I... You're early. -You look... Look, I wasn't exactly prepared Beautiful. And totally unprepared Ah... Not totally unprepared. Okay. Come on. [Emma chuckles] Here. -Where are we going now? Don't worry, Who said anything Ooh, these are fancy. You've got Mm-hmm. Ready? Yeah. Let's go. [instrumental music] -What are we doing here? -This is what? This used to be All I see is a shrub. You have to wait Chef Blake because I know you didn't I know. Yeah, I know. Chef Blake is amazing. Honestly, I can't pay him half of what I don't know why he comes It's because Yeah, to you, me If we don't get some how we're gonna Could, um... Could you just have You know, you don't... You don't even know Something might surprise you. [owl hooting] A great horned owl. -You've been listening. [imitating owl hooting] -How'd you do that? -You cup your hands like this. Cut out all the air and then you breathe in -Like this. -[imitating owl hooting] What? Ooh. He says you're no good at this. Oh, really? Did he say that? -Yeah. And that's not all that he said. Ah! Well, do tell. He said... maybe you're right. Maybe it is time Let someone else take care of it You know, that way for me and my mom to... I don't know, move to the city. Why would you, Uh, you love this place, and the birds and the lodge. And you don't know anybody I know you. Oh. Liam, there's something Wait, it's about to start. -What? Would you look at that? Wow! The last time I was up here was Hm. Doesn't this make you feel like of something bigger? Gives you perspective? Like, in the grand scheme all the little things [instrumental music] [birds chirping] [instrumental music] What am I doing? Oh, come on, Emma. God! You, you could just -[leaves rustling] Okay. Be big, be loud, and don't run. Don't mind me! -[leaves rustling] Please, I don't wanna die. City girl! You're not supposed God. Don't scare me like that. Yeah, well, if I was a bear, -Remember the rule! Be big-- -I know! What happened between last night I thought that you would be happy that-- Forget about it, okay? Can you at least tell me -Emma, talk to me. Uh, this, this wasn't supposed I don't get it. I don't get it. I-I, I'm-I'm not the girl I'm not the girl I've got a career and a life and-and-and a condo that is that you're not a part of. Looks like you two are waiting Oh, quick! Here they come! -Ah... -[Jane] Oh, hello, dear. I'm so sorry. I have to go now. But w-we were supposed to play hearts tonight And I made a special gluten-free I know. I'm-I'm really sorry, Yeah, Ms. City Lawyer Oh, well, if-if that's what -Yeah. [door shuts] What happened? Do you really have to go, honey? I need to get back to work. I understand, there's so much more to life It's meant to be enjoyed. [sniffles] Oh, no. You're keeping that. Hey. You looking for something? Yup, something that I didn't What happened, and the cheese Look, I don't know, man. I mean, one second under the stars, through the woods. Well, you think -[Blake] Or something you said? But it made one thing clear, Wait, really? You said -You love this place. [sighs] Maybe it's time to let and fix it up. And then that way at the drawing board, you know? [line ringing] Hey! Yeah. Yeah, the roads are open, Yeah, I'll be heading home soon. Be safe. Hey, what about that Oh, yeah. I, uh, I think You didn't ask him -What? -Hey... I love you. You're being weird. I know. But I just love you. I love you, too, Emmie. See you soon. Bye. [instrumental music] I've called a car. I just wanted to say thanks You've been really great. And I am sorry Thought you said there were You guys make Uh, Chef Blake will drive you -Not Liam? He said he had to sign No. No! [music continues] Oh, don't... Please, Liam. Don't... Look, I already did. I can't make business decisions You said so yourself. No! No, no... Take it back. -I thought-- I thought I... It's what I wanted then, Okay, I can't understand you. I lied to you, Liam. -Huh? Look, I only wanted you to sell wanted me to get you I don't understand. 'Cause she represents some guy and she told me to sell the lodge to him, make me a partner So that's why you came back and That's what the dinner was all about? You were just trying to get me -At first that was the plan-- I mean, is that all that I am to This is not supposed to happen That is all that you care about, and making partner at your firm. Yes, that's all But, Liam, and then I met you-- Bravo. Bravo. Well played. -You should have been an actor. Believe me, I don't believe a word And it looks like you got I sell the lodge, just like you planned. Liam. Thank you for staying We hope you enjoyed your stay. Bye, Emma. [engine revving] [instrumental music] [music continues] Where's Emma? -She left. Hm. Without saying goodbye. Yeah, well, you know, she had more important things I really thought Yeah, well, so did I. [instrumental music] Try to run try to hide [groans] [cell phone ringing] Try to fix try to fight Try to step outside [cell phone ringing] You gonna steer me wrong You gonna steer me right But don't steer my wrong 'Cause I'm not gonna stay [imitating owl hooting] Inside the lines Inside the lines Inside the lines Inside the lines It's a sharp twist of fate If you make a mistake You gonna steer me wrong This time But don't steer my wrong So what's next for you guys? I don't know, at some restaurants in the city. -Nice! Uh, my mom and I are gonna stick Pack everything up, -So what are you gonna do? Brandon, would you maybe and explore the area before Yeah. That sounds like fun. -Really? [Brandon] Love a good -Yeah, me, too. What do you wanna do of binders and papers from Emma? Um... I'm just gonna toss it out. Yeah. Everyone Such a big win for the company. I'm gonna get you It's fine, I should probably lay off the caffeine anyway. This is it. Everything I've ever known. And is that all? I can have everything compiled Actually, why don't you take Are you sure? There's more to life than work. You're young. You should be You should be going on hikes to see where they lead and... dancing in the rain Okay. Cool. I'll do that. [line ringing] [cell phone vibrating] [busy tone] The lodge was lovely as always. Just as lovely Well, we do hope though, I'm sorry to say, Oh, no. What happened, son? It's a long time coming. But I'm sure take great care of it. [banging on door] What is this? Whoa, buddy! -Just doing my job. This site's been scheduled Demolition? Don't look at me. You'll have They filed for demolition at There she is! Mrs. Hollings, um, is there I wanted and congratulate you Here's to you, partner. I don't know what to say. How about thank you? This is all I've been working All those long weekends, and, and missed vacations. You've earned it, a sad lumberjack to make way for Sierra Heights. -[instrumental music] You didn't think because of its rustic charm, What do you mean? Everything's on the up and up, and we're gonna demolish and make way for luxury condos. I had no idea that it was -Does Liam know that? Emma, do you realize how much money we're gonna make? We're never gonna Although you and I know with us workaholics. It's not about the money. I-I don't want to be who's just padding more Rolexes? I wanna love what I do so much And I wanna be surrounded and-and I wanna be surprised! Has the high altitude -Have you lost your mind? Yeah, I think I have, actually. Emma! You walk out that door Well, what I'm about to do a conflict of interest, [dramatic music] -You're leaving for the day? What? This isn't like you. I feel more like myself -What about my day off? Covered in fire ants. [Liam sighing, laughing] May the sun never set To the lodge. -To the lodge. [Emma] Mrs. Wilson? This is Emma Hollings Associates, just wanted you should keep But I thought you said and realistic to sell. I know, but I wasn't listening. You said it yourself that of your most cherished memories. And there's no amount I know that this call may come um, but I'm sorry for giving I just wanted an opportunity and be honest for once. [Mrs. Wilson] Okay, dear. This call means a lot. Divorce is ugly, and it's not to take all the love Thank you. Goodbye. Okay, little guy. [Jane chuckling] [indistinct chatter] [Jane] You're just gonna bite You are getting stronger -You are so precious! There's a whole beautiful world just waiting for you. And you will soar You just need Oh. Wouldn't it be nice if So what should we name you? You are precious. [Emma] I wanna buy back and this... is my offer. [laughing] We'll-we'll make when we level the place I'll double it. I'll triple it. What do you even have That's cute, but with what I can get 40 of these. All I gotta do is pick up and then that little lodge... [owl hooting] Did you see the new nest? -The tiny birds. You've always had a way Thank you, honey, at getting in trouble. The tree, when you got up We had to call Then I couldn't get back down, so I kept going -[Jane] That's right. Oh, I have no doubt Chef, you don't have They may have taken this lodge take away my passion. [Blake] Tonight we're having a burgundy wine sauce -Bon appetit. Oh, gosh. What did your dad Tonight's entertainment [together] The greasy toads -That cracked you up every time. Oh, gosh. What are you afraid of losing Oh, honey... Like, sitting under these oaks? You can't think of it We're not losing anything They can't take it away from us. This place of ours We'll keep it right here. Okay? Yeah, I know. I do. I know. -And that's the house. I even offered triple for it, Unbelievable. Who is this new Emma? Ah, look, I just, I got because it is all my fault. It's not just about the lodge, Hm? What's that supposed Look at this guy. Hm. It's Liam. He's the owner. Well, if he's the reason I've gotta figure out a way [grunts] I gotta figure out Oh, that's cool. [Emma] No, they're, um, They go there every year Oh. -Oh. You are a genius! I love you! Oh, God! Why didn't Whoa! Why I am, why am I the genius? Where are you going? [instrumental music] Honey, it's time to go. Wait. Okay, let's go. [Emma] Hello? City girl? Oh, thank God! -What are you doing here? -How did you get here? -You ran? Okay, I have an idea But first there's, there's something I was falling in love with you that I met you, But, you know, even though I realize now that are unplanned, like, like, getting stuck here Look, I thought I knew And I was wrong to deceive you and-and lie to everybody just -Congratulations, but-- That's not what I want anymore. I-I wanna be here. I, I want, I want oak trees and sleeping under the stars and, and dancing in the rain. I want... all these endless I swear, I had no idea that they were gonna build I even went to Mr. Powers' the lodge back, Wait. You tried I tried. But the second that I figured I quit my job and I came here, just to be with you. I mean, it's great that but it's too late, Mr. Powers and the judge's clerk No. We have to get to the court -Let's go! -Come on! Well, you have the blueprints It looks like everything If there aren't any community Objection, Your Honor! -Oh, I'm just a-- I'm not a judge, I'm just the-- -Your Honor, if I may. According to article 2.9, of the Endangered Species Act, &quot;If any lands to be home to an endangered they must be protected That's ridiculous! I could do whatever I want -Not according to the law. You-you have any proof to endangered species' Yes, I do. [Emma] Jane? Okay, baby. We're on. [baby eagle squeaking] -Your Honor. Your Honor, this little guy from falling out of his nest. It's a golden eagle hatchling, Preposterous. How do we even Well... [together] The long feathers on are always a rusty-red. I'm actually something So, you see, Your Honor, this baby bird proves by the United States Wouldn't you agree? She's right. Mr. Powers, [all] Yes! [cheering] What I am supposed to do with no permits? I'm not gonna get back half of Well, Mr. Powers, I would be But like you said, no one's old lodge, so looks like half of what you paid for it. My son, the businessman. Thank you. -Yes! Oh, wow! Come here, you. [instrumental music] [Jane] Love is patient. Like the oak, it is unwavering, it is dependable. Love does not change Love is hopeful. Like the eagle, It is playful, it is daring. And love, like the brook, It settles you, it relaxes you. Sit along and its flowing calm will And as the owls are wise, Never take it for granted. [Jane] Emma and Liam, you are the shepherds Under these oaks, amongst and beside I ask the question. Liam, do you take Emma as your lawfully wedded wife? I do. [Jane] Emma, do you take Liam as your lawfully wedded husband? I do. You may kiss this bride. [instrumental music] [applauding and cheering] Oh! Oh! [laughter] [music continues] What are you doing Oh, nothing. -I was just, um... [together] Black lava sea salt. -Hi. Would you care to take a look W-whoa! I would be honored. Two worlds collide [Emma] Another surprise? Close your eyes. Whoa! Oh, gosh! Ah. Okay, um, you know, -We have to work sometime. Yes, just because we're not still married Which we love. And our work. Which we love. Ah, but we have a whole to take care of now. -How did I get so lucky? We're meant to be Is that music that I hear? -Okay, open your eyes. [gasps] Did you do this just for me? Well, I wanted to get away for a special moment with you. [music continues] Well, the only thing that is if it had rained. Oh, and ruin Would've been a nice surprise. [music continues] I still do [both laughing] [gasps] Oh. [both laughing] But then all I ever wanted Took me by surprise All I thought I didn't expect to see But it feels so safe And I can't believe Finding out It's getting hard to deny I know we're just But you're all Even the stars can't deny All I knew is now departed What if all I ever wanted Like reflections in the water Truth is I belong It's getting hard to deny I know we're just But you're all Even the stars can't deny All I knew is now departed What if all I ever wanted It's getting hard to deny I know But you're all Even the stars can't deny All I knew is now...