-All right. We're checking out the only game where you can throw that weighs one bajillion times and it's also one bajillion Celsius, it's Universe Sandbox. So, um, before, there was a certain limit but I kind of found a way around it. Let me take a moment This is the moon. I feel kind of bad for it because Now, as you can see, the moon has an average temperature In Canada, this would kind of be average, but down here in Florida, everyone dies. Now, what would happen if You could see you get 10,000. The moon starts to turn into the sun. Here's a hundred thousand, a million. The problem is before you can get it goes down to absolute zero, and then you have this. Do you know what this is? A depressed moon. Now what you can do, however, There we go. Utilize the [?] atmospheric mass. Give it, I don't know, uh, one of the Earth's atmospheric masses, come over here to the laser, choose one that has a lot of zeros in it. Add more zeros and then start shooting the laser Now you're going to notice will start to do whatever This is exactly what we're looking for. [laughs] Now you can see this over here and you'd say, &quot;But Gray, that doesn't really seem What is that like 291,000,000? That's like cookie numbers.&quot; Now, you don't seem to understand, that's not where the numbers end. So after you have your, just adding a little bit more Uh, so now we have Now we can go ahead I'll go ahead and slow things way Got to speed this up Start off at one light speed. Nice and slow. And here we go. See right now the Earth is like, Oh, you must not know. Touch down. All right. So let's go ahead We'll see how much-- Oh sweet Jesus. I was gonna see how much heat The answer is a little bit. Now, remember, I have to see if I can make this work The good news is, is that the Earth The bad news is, I like how it's still giving Earth It's like, I'd like to take a moment to mention uh, has a liquid water depth of that. Now, 95,000 might not look like very much, but, um, look at what the measurement is. If you want something it's, uh, that many suns Now obviously I do have just to see if Earth-- Oh, Earth now has balls, or actually it-it's turned This is amazing. This wasn't really my intent, See if you look like this, But if you look like this, All right here, moving onward. The Mickey ears fly off into space. And I imagine that the Earth Just kind of watch that being most of the souls of the damned It is now pooping out that was given to it and we should be-- Go ahead and crap. Now that we have a brand new Earth. Oh, look at that. We can go over here. We can make our water droplet start Then we have to-- I actually don't know Hey, Google. How big is a single raindrop? According to Hypertextbook,- Uh-huh. -raindrops generally have -They range in size up to about 3mm. Yeah, that's fine. That's fine. Thank you. All right. half of a millimeter. Just do that. There we go. All right. Now that the moon like that. It's also vibrating very wildly. When I start to move it, go ahead and save it real quick. Okay. So first things first, we have to turn There we go. Then we have to give it an atmosphere. Ah, we did one Earth last time. Let's do-- I'm just gonna- I'm just gonna do that. It's always good Now what we can do is start messing Now the best part is normally, but because we've given it we should do this. [laughs] Oh, hey, now it actually It's a drop of water Now that we have okay, we're gonna put And now we have to heat this thing up. Take our galactic laser, And now you may say to yourself, Whatever this number is, except the number keeps kind of going. It's-it's that number there. Right. Now we're gonna go ahead I appreciate that right now, we are firing one-half of the ocean Go, my son. Now, fortunately, As you can see, our-our one drop of rain has turned It's not even shaped It's just like a small piece of plasma. Oh my God. If you want, go ahead and take a moment to recognize that a fortune cookie The Earth, I have to-- Oh my God. I was curious, you know, how much different I like that you can live and it's degrees Celsius. Very nice. You know? And then across the street, it's whatever that number is, right? Whatever that one there, it's at 3.7 billion degrees Celsius. Seems legitimate. All right, let's go ahead Now, luckily the Earth is cooling down. It's taking this quite well. The total water mass is infinite. Hold on, if the water mass is infinite. Okay. Surface temperature, a lot. Okay. Maybe-maybe Japan is gone. This is what I was looking for. Liquid water, depth, positive infinity times the Milky Way. [laughs] Anyway, I'm gonna go ahead and then, uh, I'm gonna go ahead and let this continue onward here Like I said, you never know. The Earth is incredibly resilient. Oh, okay. A couple of seconds. Moving by now. The ghostly phallus of sadness Oh, it's changing color. Before it just looks like a Q-tip but now it's starting to look Oh crap. And the Earth just vaporized. I'm not going to lie, is possibly the most powerful thing Let's add more zeros. In fact, I'm gonna have to see Like maybe we can destroy the sun with it. All right. Go ahead Go ahead and stupidly increased I'd like to mention that right now that one little half a millimeter spec Make it all water. Uh, yeah, let's go real crazy this time. There we go. Galactic super laser. Goooo. All right. We're left with whatever And just because, we'll go ahea There we go. Now then if we're lucky, Earth will finally get some I do appreciate It hasn't actually turned It's just lost its texture. It's just a glowing textureless mass. I just noticed too that I haven't tortured I'm sorry. All right, let me slow it down so we can get a nice view Go ahead and move back slightly. And here we-- It should happen. Oh my God. Okay. because that was totally the opposite This is interesting. Instead of transferring all of the heat and making the Earth it flash froze half of the Earth. I love how the big difference here and like red absolute zero. The liquid water depth That's excellent. You have ice thickness All right, I'll go ahead and let things move on here just to see if, uh, The Earth clearly The Earth is now starting and that's it. The Earth is so relatively fine that there could still be Maybe the idea is you want when it's that hot. All right. In order to test this theory, I'm going to do something I'm going to slow it. No survivors down. I almost feel dirty doing this. All right. So I have to move this thing, Okay. Now that it's super close we're going to slow it way down How much mass? Yes. Atmospheric mass. I'm gonna put in numbers There we go. Ah, the freezing point That's what I like to see. Give it the disco power. Maybe you're saying to yourself, &quot;But Gray, Uh, 1.4 billion degrees Celsius. You know what? That's actually not enough. There, 2.1 billion degrees Celsius. All right. Go, my son. Ah, yes. And like a small, our comparatively slow-moving will soon impact the Earth. And here we go. I find this interesting. It just looked like Everything just crunched downward. Anything really changed here? I don't know. I'll go ahead and speed things up here just to make sure kind of continues to do Oh, there's a little fiery area There's a wave of instadeath That's nice. I mean, I did throw like 64 oceans worth so there is that. All right. Um, I can-- What the hell? I was gonna say, but time has completely frozen. Uh. I've actually never seen Okay. I don't know. Hold on, Come on. Anything? Well, all right. I told-- I should've known, slowing things down never works out well. Okay, so I guess what we're gonna have Whoa, whoa, whoa. Stop, stop, stop. What the- what the hell? Crap. I'm like lost in the death sphere. What the hell took you so long? What is this? Like every Floridian on Earth because the Earth decided not to do anything about the death So, now we're doing 16 seconds a second. I still don't actually know What the hell. The Earth is vaporized from the inside. Look, there's actually nothing there. You can actually see through the Earth. The landmass, but the inside is gone. I think we just legitimately Uh, I guess I'll keep going. I've never done that before. I've never taken Okay. Now, the rest of the Earth There it is, the horizon of death. Yeah, the Earth just poofed. We may have hollowed out the Earth, but there's still the one final boss, Usually, I leave the sun out of things because it's a real pain We're probably gonna have but I'm not stopping until we destroy All right. No survivors, put it down. I need to shove as much mass in here Okay. Right now, in a half-millimeter-sized rain droplet. All right, we need to bring this so it doesn't just get vaporized I imagine while I'm doing this, [laughs] Hold on, I can- I can actually bring All right, this is as close as I can get Speed, we're going for the magic number, half lightspeed. Atmospheric mass, yes. Oh, I landed on +69. That was totally unplanned. All right. Luckily, the freezing point All right, total water mass. Let me just save this. Okay. I've got the total water mass That's what I like to hear. Oh, my God. I actually made the water bar It doesn't exist anymore. The amount of water This is- this is the most powerful All right, this is it. More, more. Okay. It's as slow as we can get. You know what time it is. Do it. Okay. Holy crap, that was a lot faster Okay, my son. You know what you must do. What the hell? Go, my child, go. This is actually working out perfect because if you do too many lightspeeds, you don't actually get to see because it moves too damn fast. All right. Now, we could probably speed Okay. Now, it's starting to- starting Okay. An infinite not a number versus the sun. One tiny water droplet. Ho-hold on. Oh, I actually can't slow down anymore. I'm as slow as I could get. Go. Oh. Where the hell-- Where did all the planets go? Okay, Mercury is way out here. [laughs] Oh, my God. It flew away Hold on. Can I even see Sat--? Okay, there's Mars. And in the end, it ate the sun. And now it's moving But there actually is a little bit Well, we finally got to see what happens that has all of the entire mass Everything runs away at 7 +23 lightspeed. Anyway, folks. I hope you enjoyed this episode Until the next time. Stay foxy and much love.