Hello My Name is Gut From GUD FOOD I'm at Sukhumvit Road Soi 31 I'm here for newly opened restaurant which just opend recently on the early of November. That is &quot;Gaggan Anand&quot;. After the old place with Michelin 2-star has been closed. So Chef Gaggan decided to open his new restaurant under his name &quot;Gaggan Anand&quot; This place look attractive The entire place covered with ivy If you want to know, what kind of meal they do serve here? How many courses will be served? How it's better than the old place? I will show you through this VDO. Let's go!! Tastes great! It's give the nice smell of herb with the taste of salty, spicy, and sweet all the taste are mixed in the mouth It's start waken up the enjoyment since the 1st and 2nd plate This is the 3rd plate. The leafs came from Japan which it is their seasonal now. The thing on top come from the mixture of 2 livers of Terrestrial and Aquatic animals. Which are Foie gras and Akimo from Monkfish. These two are super tasty by themselves Let's see how it taste like when they mixed together. Hmmm .. This is so gooood The chill Pate on top with crispy biscuit at the bottom It help increse the deliciousness with crunchy texture also the palate got covered by the intense Pate. This make them even better. Superb!! Next plate .. the 5th plate This is the aged Amberjack which they do aging themselve in this kitchen and roll it to make a Roulade Hmmmm ... the aged fishs are so good They have sticky and chewy texture ... the more you chew the more intense savory you get ... I'm not sure what did they put inside this dish it has the taste of salty, sweet and peppery came later this peppery increased appetite This dish give a texture of sticky and chewy plus smoked flavor I do like it!! excellent!! Why milk!? Because .. this is fried milk topped with black &amp; white truffle Hmmmm .. Smells good it taste like biscuits but lighter with the smell of truffle on top it s make this dish ... .. so smooth and salty .. .. crunchy and nice-smelling It s like an intense crispy Spaghetti WhiteTruffle. This plate named &quot;Deep Purple&quot; the name of rock band and .. .. consists of all purple ingredients .. purple corn and purple vegetables This plate is aim to present the amazing taste of potato there are so many kinds of potato in India this plate consists of potato caviar .. .. which extract the potato to become sphere like caviar and put it on top the leaf beside made of 2 kinds of cabbage which are Red Cabbage and Cabbage It s so smooth and creamy like mashed potato .. .. salty, nice-smelling, and crispy .. so interesting Want you all to taste it .. .. the taste are so complex This is Uni plate bottomed with aubergine the yellow sauce aside made of .. .. red chilli and ginger. let's eat it in one bite! Uni has their own sweet and creamy flavor .. .. plus the texture of aubergine which allow you to chew The taste are acidic and spicy .. .. from the sauce that made of red chilli and ginger .. .. to balance the sweet flavor of Uni all the tastes are mixed inside the mouth with the nice-smelling. So creative!! Look at the smoke This braised pork cheek is so soft and stewed it s like braised pork filled with banana pepper.. .. and grill with banana leaf for nice-smelling it tastes great! .. but a bit of spicy Pork cheeks are braised in amazing condition which made them super soft .. .. additional with the nice-smelling of grilled banana leaf. Yummy!! This is a charcoal grilled baby chicken .. .. with Tobiko, Tapioca, and Saffron. Saffron is a spice. The nice-smelling of Charcoal came first and follow with .. .. the Citrus smell like an orange. This Charcoal chicken are fermented with indian spice .. .. so it give a nice spice-smell which not too much The interesting thing in this dish is the Tapioca .. .. which give a chewy texture and make this dish more intersting This is so great .. ..and I do personally ike the grilled indian dish .. .. becaue of the nice smell of spice and an amazing taste This is an Abalone ... .. from Nagasaki, Japan served with pepper sauce aside .. .. and topped with coconut .. .. like an indian style. This is white abalone. White abalone is natural habitat .. .. not a farming abalone. Let's taste it!! Hmmm .. nice-smelling!! Crispy with a sense of peppery The sauce has their own acidic flavor with a bit of spicy Really good! Lamb dish This lambs were feeded with only carrot and olive. This grillrf Sous Vide lambs ... ... come with chilli sauce. There is an aromatic sense of smoked wood underneath. The Sous Vide technic give texture of the lambs are soft and nice -smelling. The chilli, garlic, and tomato sauce make them even better when dipped. This dish are perfectly mixed of the flavor of sour, salty, sweet, and aromatic smell. Here we are at the last plate! So beautiful!! named &quot;Gold &amp; Silver&quot; It look like a cookie .. .. made of custard apple .. .. filled with yuzu jelly .. .. topped with charcoal crumble The sphere jel above made of Gold-Silver Powder (Food Colouring) We come to the very last plate now .. .. so full This is amazing! The last dessert plate of the course has made an amzing job to sum up this meal. The chilled mellow custard apple .. .. with the citrus flavor of yuzu made the taste are perfectly balance This is the jigsaw we got after finished the course .. .. I do not know if I made it correct or not .. .. start from the 1st plate to the last plate. This give an enjoyment atmosphere over dining table .. .. the rule is staffs cannot help arrange it. Ok!! .. That is all for the new &quot;Gaggan Anand&quot; restaurant tonight .. .. which just opend on the 1st of November. Today is the 10th of November. The place is so stylish. The food has their own unique style of Chef Gaggan .. which presented in the mystery and enjoyment way .. .. but still give the scence of indian cuisine. The food has a taste of spicy from indian spices .. .. and mix of local and import ingredients .. .. which give an unexpected experience of the taste .. .. and what are the dish made of. Two words to sum up the night are splendid and enjoyable. The cost is Bh.8,000++ per pax There is now highly demad of booking .. .. which make it a long waiting list now. I would like to recommend you all to come experienced. Thank you all for watching. See you on the next VDO! Bye!!