Okay. I'm guessing right about now a lot of you are wondering is showing up in your subscription feed. And I get it, wrestling is totally not for everybody. But it's also April 1st, which means your timeline and rather than add another to the pile, I thought I'd take and talk about a form of entertainment I've loved And if you hate professional wrestling, if you're wondering why I would debase myself covering ...well first off, I have some bad news for you about and second, you are actually the person I'm making My goal here isn't to turn you into a wrestling fan, just to And understanding the world around us is a good thing, Even the parts of it that seem really dumb and insane, ...right. Okay, elephant in the room; wrestling is fake. And no, not even in the way Game of Thrones is fake, professional wrestling is a pretend sport masquerading These two women are not actually fighting, these two men do not actually hate each other, and this is not an actual evil voodoo priest named who's also played the role of a salty martial artist And he, alongside an entire industry of his fellow all work together as a highly-choreographed physical the goal of which is to convince the audience that This is the sticking point with a lot of people and the idea that it's fake and not a legitimate sport, But to me, wrestling isn't devalued by the fact that And through this, in a very strange way that I'm going to can also be more real than virtually anything else The revelation that wrestling is fake is not a new one, It was in 1938 that North American newspapers because at that point journalists had become wise that the results of these matches were predetermined. Up until this point, wrestling had mainly been a sideshow but that changed when wrestling bookers learned The first was that the sport was a lot more profitable but second, it was also a lot more entertaining for as rather than the matches being just a pure contest of where the winner could have all the potential charisma they could instead engage the crowd with heroes and which would keep the audience coming back week This would also skyrocket wrestling's popularity in turning what had started as a carny show into a which also meant that now, maintaining the illusion that And this is what led to the implementation of &quot;Kayfabe.&quot; Kayfabe was originally a codeword wrestlers used to signal to each other that there were fans or outsiders and so the illusion of wrestling would need to be But in a much broader sense, it's a term used to refer to and specifically, of wrestling as a legitimate contest, and wrestling personas as actual people and meaning that wrestlers were expected to play their whenever they were out in public. And so heroic wrestlers, known as &quot;Faces,&quot; were while villainous wrestlers, known as &quot;Heels,&quot; were And above all else, faces and heels were never, ever as doing so would give way that the rivalry between thus exposing his secret reality of the business. The illusion of kayfabe was fiercely maintained It was what allowed fans to let themselves believe that despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary. As a wrestling fan, people were always eager to tell you but it was always easy to dismiss because it always But then, one fateful night on May 19th 1996, an incident would occur that would destroy the illusion And it was an incident known as &quot;The Curtain Call.&quot; The Curtain Call took place right in the center of and it involved a group of four wrestlers who shared an and were known backstage as &quot;The Kliq:&quot; Scott Hall, Kevin Nash, Shawn Michaels, and This was the last night Hall and Nash would be and the following day would be jumping ship to Michaels and Nash were bitter rivals in WWF's storyline and in the final match of the night, Michaels was set to But what wasn't part of the script was what came when the cameras stopped rolling, when Michaels straddled his unconscious opponent, Fans looked on, bewildered and stunned. And then to add to the confusion, Hall and Levesque and the four friends celebrated an emotional farewell. The problem, though, was that this was not part of the Not only did these four wrestlers not have an on-camera they were meant to actively despise one another, with Hall and Michaels both being beloved faces, But if that was true, then why were they all in the ring Were these guys... actually friends? Oh my God! The incident never aired on national television, The advancement of home camcorder technology, meant that the footage was captured by fans and free to And the result was that the illusion of kayfabe that professional wrestling had shrouded itself in was left tattered and broken, with wrestling audiences around the world faced with and underneath the facade lay a separate reality. A reality that lay just below the surface, tantalizingly This is what would lead to the modern era of To wrestling fans now, the &quot;secret&quot; that wrestling is Instead, what we have now is a form of entertainment the fictional world of kayfabe, and the actual, real-life Which leaves us with the question: If wrestling is fake, and that knowledge is widely known, If someone wants to watch a genuine contest of And the answer to that lies in the fundamental that this is a competition, and this is a story. Wrestling, like so many other forms of fiction, is about I want you to look at these clips, and forget for a Just try and imagine your own body performing these Think about the years of training it would take to be able and about the timing and trust you'd need to have and ask yourself, what is all that effort for? What is actually being achieved here? And the answer is that they're building a narrative The suspension of disbelief is the simultaneous belief Anyone who watches The Matrix believes both that we but is aware that we're actually watching Keanu Reeves perform a choreographed sequence of actions And it's the filmmaker's job to make it as easy on the which is why solid acting, writing, and editing because a discrepancy in any particular one could break destroying our investment in the story. But immersion is also something that's created in very Take the far simpler medium of &quot;Rakugo.&quot; Rakugo is a minimalist form of Japanese theatre whose only props are a fan and a piece of cloth. And with this ultra-minimalist setup, they play out entire using subtle gesturing and posing, along with tonal And so the immersion, the suspension of disbelief, is created purely through the physical performance A skilled rakugoka can make it feel like an actual story despite the fact we can very clearly see it's just Wrestling works the exact same way. Just like film, just like rakugo, what the performers are ultimately trying to do And not only just in the staged violence, but also One of the things I love about Kanako Urai, real name is that from the moment she steps out into an arena, everything from her wardrobe, to the way she walks, embodies this fascinating fictional character. A bizarre, violent person who takes distinct glee And because of how good Urai is at conveying both through her wrestling and the subtlety you don't see the actual performance behind it. You just see Asuka, The Empress of Tomorrow. This is something that all great wrestlers do. The embodiment of a fictional persona, a character. And so all a wrestling match is is what happens when two of these fictional characters and the story that unfolds through that. Granted, that might sound a little weighty, so to show this, I'd like to use an example from a match in the form of &quot;Rowdy&quot; Roddy Piper versus Piper was the defending Intercontinental Champion, while Hart was the rising new star of the company. And just watch the story that plays out between these From the outset, Piper is consistently outwrestled having each throw and hold countered and turned back to the point that it's obvious that he cannot beat Hart At which point, Piper changes tactics, pretending to before blindsiding him with a brutal closed fist attack, and begins to decimate his younger opponent with until finally Hart, now bloody and battered, rallies, gaining a read on his opponent once again and until finally Piper, left with no other option, knocks the and is about to use it to put his younger opponent away But then there's just this beautiful little moment and looks at the sea of people surrounding him, and is left awash in a chorus of boos, the fans disgusted He used to be the hero in these situations. These used to be his fans. And in this moment of realization, he throws away and the crowd explodes at this subtle act of redemption, before finally Piper is outdone one last time, accepts his defeat with grace, passing both the torch There is so much to this match. It's basically an entire fallen hero/villain redemption purely conveyed through the physical storytelling And I think that's kind of incredible. From here, Piper's career would start to fade, and Bret, after years of success, would eventually find where now he was the veteran the crowd had as he faced off against the new rising star of the This is what professional wrestling is, and while it's when it's at its best, it can be exciting, to funny, And the knowledge that these events are scripted, doesn't take anything away from the emotional impact in the same way that knowing Yusuke vs. Toguro is just doesn't take away from the emotional impact of that. Okay, everything we just talked about, that's all The fictional performance created by the wrestlers But as we mentioned earlier, there is another side and that's the actual reality behind it. When you begin to look into the industry of pro wrestling and that is that the line between what's real and and you begin to see moments when the fictional world begin to bleed into one another, and identifying the point where one starts and the other And to show this, we need to go back to the The Curtain Call and its shattering of kayfabe was seen as an appalling attack on wrestling. And so, there had to be punishment. Someone had to pay the price for this transgression. It couldn't be either Scott Hall or Kevin Nash, as they had and it couldn't be Shawn Michaels, because he and already a problem in many other areas. And so the entirety of the blame fell on Paul Levesque, an upper-mid card wrestler with a lot of potential, And as punishment, his entire career was derailed and being forced to endure a string of humiliating losses with other wrestlers shrugging off his attacks Writing like this is devastating to a wrestler's career. It destroys the fictional credibility a wrestling persona and therefore severely damages their ability to draw But this was the new reality that Levesque now faced. None of this was part of the actual WWF storyline, From the audience's perspective, all that was happening and then suddenly stopped. Now, let's take a moment that came four years later. At this point, Levesque had sweat and bled his way and had been reborn as title contender Triple H. And in an interview that was meant to be kayfabe, Levesque - &quot;What, you- you want me to shoot with this &quot;It's about four years ago, Madison Square Garden. &quot;Kevin Nash, Scott Hall Shawn Michaels... &quot;Who got punished for that, J.R.? &quot;Well, you know what? That makes me sick in &quot;Every time I look at you guys, it makes me sick to think &quot;You guys talk about being &quot;students of the game.&quot; &quot;I am the f[beep] game, J.R.! &quot;There is nobody that eats, sleeps, or breathes The thing to note here is that he is referring to events He's referring to things that really happened. And so ask yourself; who is actually speaking here? Is it the fictional wrestling persona Triple H, or is it the actual human being behind the persona, the person who had to actually endure the ire of and nearly saw his career ruined? And the answer is that it's both. It's both Triple H and Paul Levesque. And the result is that there's an honesty and an anger as the reality starts to fuel the fiction. And there are dozens of incidents like this that have The Montreal Screwjob, the forced retirement and possibly most infamously, the CM Punk pipe bomb, in which former wrestler CM Punk took to a mic laying waste to the management, his fellow wrestlers, Punk - &quot;I'm barely promoted. I don't get to be in movies. &quot;I'm certainly not on any crappy show on the &quot;But the fact that Dwayne is in the main event of [crowd cheering] Punk - &quot;Le- let me get something straight. Those of you &quot;You are just as big a part of me leaving as &quot;You're the ones that buy those programs that my face &quot;and then at five in the morning at the airport, you try &quot;so you can get an autograph and try to sell it on eBay!&quot; This to me is what's so uniquely captivating about Out of all forms of entertainment, in no other is the line where the fourth wall is so fragile. And when it does finally give way, it can lead to some of the most intense and oddly As fake as wrestling can be, these are the moments These moments show something else also, and that is No matter how theatrical a wrestling persona is, One as real and flawed as anyone else. And when you start to watch wrestling for long enough, it's the stories of these people that become the main as you watch them grow, and age, and change. So to conclude this video, I want to talk about one I want to talk about the saga of the GoldenLovers. Our story begins in 2008, as two young wrestlers The first is Kota Ibushi, a young, supremely talented Japanese wrestler And the other is Kenny Omega, a Canadian wrestler who, after seeing tapes of Ibushi's And so he issued an open challenge to Kota, and so Omega traveled to Japan, and a showdown took Ibushi eventually took the victory, but it didn't matter. Over the course of the match, the two wrestlers realized There was a connection here. Both wrestlers believed that wrestling could be more It could be a vehicle for comedy, a way to tell stories, hell, it could even be art. And together, the two resolved to change the world Omega uproots his entire life and moves to Japan and rather than become rivals, they form a tag team, but Omega and Ibushi preferred the name the The GoldenLovers are on a level few other tag teams There's a kinship and a synchronicity here that fuels But what's more, they seem genuinely delighted to be and that chemistry shows in their exceptional teamwork with the Japanese audience embracing them And by 2011, it feels like their dream is beginning The GoldenLovers are inseparable, and they are But slowly, a gap starts to form between the two. While Kota only needs to rely on his god-given Kenny often struggles, having to work hard to overcome and he starts to feel outpaced by his genius partner. Kota's genius doesn't go unnoticed, either. He's being given more opportunities as a single wrestler, And with each victory, Kenny feels a little more And so on August 18th 2012, after three years of partnership, the two face each other, and what follows is one of the most spectacular Kota fighting for his pure love of wrestling, and Kenny desperately battling as to not be left behind But it's not enough. He cannot overcome the genius of Ibushi. And afterwards, both wrestlers look devastated, Kenny for the loss, and Kota for having inflicted it Over the next two years, the gap between the two would Ibushi continues to rise, even going so far as to face the But meanwhile, Kenny struggles without his former gaining only modest wins, and racking up several including one especially crushing defeat at the hands of a vicious faction of American wrestlers who spit in the overwhelming opponents with their superior numbers And the experience changes Omega. He can't help feel that now, without Ibushi by his side, But Devitt has an entire army of allies behind him. And so, a realization dawns on him. Maybe with the Bullet Club, he could finally become And so two weeks later, he emerges as their And it works. He wins, and he keeps winning, until the day finally comes when his mentor and leader faces Kota for the IWJP Heavyweight Championship. In typical Bullet Club fashion, Kenny was expected to But he can't. He holds back for the entire match until its final when Ibushi scales the turnbuckle and is seconds only to turn his head and see Kenny standing on the And Kenny becomes paralyzed between his loyalty for and his feelings towards his former partner, But this momentary distraction is just enough time and he counters Ibushi's attack for a crushing comeback Afterwards, Omega is visibly shaken, while Ibushi lies devastated, both by the loss and the Not long after, Ibushi disappears from the Japanese while Omega only continues to grow more ruthless, and he begins to dominate New Japan, shrouding and even deposing Styles as its leader, taking the crown This new invincible Kenny Omega even makes it to the most elite wrestling tournament in the entire world. But his conquest has taken its toll, and he enters facing the immovable and dangerous Hirooki Goto, who punishes Omega again and again, constantly And as the light of victory begins to fade away, and what he finds is his old partner Ibushi, whose finisher, the &quot;Shining Star Powerbomb,&quot; he uses in a final sequence of moves to overcome Goto And so finally, he's done it. He's the best in the world. But without Ibushi by his side, how much does it actually This inner conflict is only made worse when a year later, Omega suffers a crushing loss in the finals of the same and afterwards, backstage, comes face-to-face And Ibushi reaches out to comfort Omega, but Kenny Things have gone too far. It's too late. And slowly, the unbreakable armor Omega has and sensing weakness, the other members of the with &quot;The American Nightmare&quot; Cody Rhodes using his culminating in a savage attack on Kota, only to have This eventually leads to the Bullet Club turning on Kenny, only for Ibushi to run to the ring and save his And then, in a moment that's been ten years the two finally just stand in the ring and face one Ibushi desperate to reform their partnership. But it's just too late. Too much has happened, and the scars run too deep. Omega cannot accept his former partner. Until... After a story ten years in the making, the GoldenLovers What's so incredible to me about the saga of the is that it's a story that could only really occur One that's about two people who felt a connection only to later be torn apart by the different directions and then finally, years later, to realize what really And what's more, identifying what's real here and Omega was genuinely a young wrestler who was Ibushi's talent did outshine Omega, and the two were genuinely caught between their love of and their aspirations as single wrestlers. And as a result, there's a heart and a strife to this story And I think at its best, that's what wrestling can be. Yes, it's fake, but that doesn't mean it can't be honest, doesn't mean it's stories can't be about real things This is why I'm still a fan, why so many people are, that professional wrestling is fascinating. Friends, thank you for joining me today, and particularly, I want to thank you for sticking around to the end of this I really hope you got something out of it. I want to shout out the Twitter user @EffingBoring, whose work was a huge inspiration and source for and who also has covered the story of the in a far more comprehensive manner than I have here. Link in the description below. Also, huge shout out to the channel Showbuckle, whose videos on New Japan and the GoldenLovers A massive thank you to my own personal Bullet Club This video in particular, I'd like to thank: Captain Piledriver, Harris Bajwa, Cole Davies, Cragi Wasko, Richard Fox, Rachel Martin, Nathalie Neumann, and Thomas Truong. Catch me on the Let's Fight a Boss video game podcast, where we'll be discussing Ready Player One and some or find me on Twitter, @Eyepatchwolf. Friends, take care of yourselves, and I'll see you