Wyoming is objectively not an attractive place reality agrees. From September through May, snow totals for any state in the US, fueled by some of there's the wind--it's ferocious. Mountains funnel regularly speeding it to 50, 60, 70 miles Interstate 80's stretch through the state has to the wind will quite literally just blow them over. much reward. The largest city in the state is town--Cheyenne hosts just 65,000 people. Rather few meaning the few jobs that do exist in the the rural areas that dominate the state is the worst quality land in the country--with and poor soil nutrition, even the abundance While the state certainly has a charm and allure simplest, most straightforward measure of state simply is just not an attractive place to live. wealth. In fact, it is home to so many the superlative of the highest concentration of country. And specifically, with remarkable Back in the 1980s, it perhaps seemed strange opted against the glitzy, ascendent ski towns of property in Jackson, Wyoming--a comparatively ranch nestled along the Snake River has become his But mere Hollywood riches feel almost middle class daughter of a Swiss medical manufacturing legacy, corner of the country home. Just down the road CEO Dick Cheney. And a few miles further there's 33rd wealthiest person on the planet, living in a surprisingly nondescript neighborhood near the isn't known for fame--it's known for wealth, so by an endless array of private equity partners name recognition. The area just punches far, far individuals. And, of course, Teton County, the as the single county out of thousands with So what rectifies this paradox? Why does people simultaneously rank as the most greatest ability to choose where they live? Well, for one, Teton County bears little on the southern end of the Jackson Hole Valley, lakes--is arguably the most attractive spot in the three ski areas, and millions of acres where visitors and residents alike can ski, and wax nostalgic for a time before modern life flying directly in and out, and shopping and Target. This is all relatively new. town with more cattle than people. Similar to it quickly transformed from a ranching outpost years. Specifically, it was the establishment arrival of skiing with the Jackson Hole Mountain on the map--a compelling stop for road-tripping in the winter. The transition from hidden gem after Harrison Ford moved to the valley, James declared Jackson Hole to be one of his favorite attention when Baker brought American arms-control policies and clarify the U.S.S.R-U.S. Today, so much money continues to flow in that demands this wealth imposes. On its peak day last Jackson Hole Airport--and almost all of them were that in early 2024, county officials approved the facility for increasingly frequent Gulfstreams and and Van Nuys. Among approvals in this project which to park private planes. There are also additional 58,000 square feet of aircraft space. the perfect, seemingly untouched landscape for an authentic western town far from the countless towns across the American West reached the absurd level of wealth as here. broader shift occurring across Wyoming. While they're in-migrating to other parts of the for example. It's not home to the state's nor does it contain any of the bigger cities skylines, and just a few people scattered every is home to just 2,500 residents. Yet this county's $149,000, an outsized number for a region with are drawn to its landscapes. It's no surprise this wealth surge is tucked into the same part of and an escape from the hustle and bustle. the peaks and the trails and the streams, Lincoln and therefore it happens to offer another While sections of Wyoming are as ruggedly Colorado and the mountains of Montana, what sets Through a layering of partnerships, companies, and where everyone from Russian magnates, Spanish some escape plan cash thanks to a creative started here, in Cheyenne, as the formation transformed many times and with many signatures is a Wyoming-based trust, which is then mixed ownerships, all created to provide protection But this sits at the center of Wyoming's such massive amounts of wealth to the state through the state. For example, the top 1% in and about 75% of that income is typically meaning residents are earning the vast majority setting up residency in the state en masse their exorbitant amount of money can go even there's no wealth tax in Wyoming. And so when it's primarily to pay those in low-wage or ski patrolling. Like anywhere, trickle-down amounts of money moving through the state, but that reinvestment, or taxation, Wyoming doesn't county per household or most billionaires per Here, not far from the home of billionaire a stark divide becomes apparent, as there and then there are the people that work it. holes in, for example, will inevitably interact perhaps buying a round of beers and leaving a tip. season to serve cold Coors to parched patrons for contract comes guaranteed housing--but it's not up in a double dorm room off-site, and in some site. Here, where the cost of living is 37% higher make $47,000 annually to break even, according to assuming a full schedule of shifts, they're at $30,000 a year. So, just to make ends the attendant turns to waiter, working an evening Wagyu steak runs $205--half of their monthly rent. off-day, they'll have to budget, as all of these to $60 per person. Local Restaurant and Bar, one assuming you're having burgers. The price fancies a "premium" cocktail and any other entree. 13,000 foot peaks framing much of the region residents. The top 1 percent of people in Teton make 132 times more than everybody else. This keeps widening, as Jackson's newest residents while everyone else averages $94,000.To put glamorous counterpart perhaps more often used Pitkin County, home to Aspen, ranks number seven where the average income of the top 1% is $6.6 County. Pitkin County is, notably, a pocket of homes, but the gap between those elites and far narrower than what's found in Wyoming. The and this increase in uber-wealthy residents raises services are more expensive, childcare is costly, the top are willing to pay the premium. And the housing prices drive up the price for everyone. get in. Those with enough money to own property the Forbes 100 CEOs--live on vast ranches that crucially, they've made every effort to ensure pristine landscapes with unobstructed views Grand Teton National Park ensured that much of the have made new construction even more difficult Much like the Duttons on the TV series use conservation easements as an oblique way Say you're a New York stock trader wanting to and fall in love with it, where you decide to buy with a mansion and 50 acres. In discussing the a conservation easement to protect your new surface mining, and subdivision rights of 49 acres ownership of the entire property, get a hefty tax protected in perpetuity. It's perfect: you can yearly income for 15 years after it's appraised it makes your home more valuable in the long you won't have to worry about any lower-income purportedly altruistic yet at almost your land is conserved "for public benefit," it. It'll still be your property, as well as your the only development that will ever be built on allowed Jackson Hole Land Trust to hold more than 97 percent of land is federally protected. There's built here, which has taken property values to wealthy folks can rest easy knowing they're And yet, with the Cowboy Cocktail's clandestine all of this wealth is sealed behind Teton to live anywhere else in Wyoming, their proximity Nowhere else has seen the levels of gentrification spite of other natural wonders like Devils Tower as much visitation. In fact, Wyoming's poverty 11 percent, even though its average cost of living then, is a stagnant force that largely to satisfy its residents' idiosyncratic whims. is that physical resource economy--Wyoming's and coal deposits in the nation. Collectively, treasure trove that's still paying the bills. it doesn't have many people. Oil and gas companies to--all that's required is paying slightly higher extraction now funds nearly half of the state higher education, a sector that's often first the University of Wyoming has a comparatively of its counterparts in neighboring states. could be fatal, as any loss in severance or For as much carbon as there is here, it's not and its natural gas revenue is down by 74 percent even commented that small towns may have to be The unfortunate truth is, when the wells run not much will be left of Wyoming. The last greater Yellowstone region, which includes Teton part-time residents who park their money here, visit to see the region's massive geysers and whose economies are buoyed by their presence. In million in economic benefits to the region. Like from development have become extremely valuable, these gateway communities are still more But even as tourists visit and tax revenue becomes a lifeline, Teton County's pre-existing in and around Jackson Hole has driven even in those comparatively cheaper gateway Park has struggled to recruit employees to with a $40 million anonymous donation specifically respite in the future. Many of those who have now commute from cheaper communities in Idaho, prevalence of million-dollar homes near Driggs and So today's cycle will continue: Teton County will the wealthy spend on their vacations, but driving out the thousands of underpaid place home. Wyoming may be one of the wealthiest very particular way, but it's simultaneously one some of the lowest likelihood of accumulating or spread, or shared: it rather simply exists. industries: Skiing and Coal Mining. Both are complexity, which is why we made two videos our Nebula Original series, the Logistics of much like we do here on YouTube, but in even of course, is the creator-owned and run streaming the stuff we make. For example, we decided pretty which might seem unintuitive. But ad-supported are incentivized to chase clicks at all costs, quality that makes sense financially. But with a offering a good enough service that you decide to That incentivizes quality, but also, crucially, it with ambitious Nebula Originals. A few months called the Getaway, and while we haven't shared which will explain the rather ambitious premise creators than just us on Nebula--we've curated an creators making meaningful, entertaining content, exclusive shows and movies. And best of all: a predictable, stable, additional revenue stream you're helping us keep making these videos even By signing up at that link, you'll also get 40% to just $2.50 a month--a great price to be able original content, and help support us, so thanks