During the 2024 total solar eclipse, I captured something I See if you can see it. [Other people talking] Coming out. &lt;Destin in Background&gt; Oh, Bailey's Beads! [Other people cheering in the background] [Destin] Did you see it? Let's back it up and play it again. Focus on this band of the sky right here. What is this? And what is this? we're going to talk about this later. This video is about something I love, and so I don't feel any pressure to make a I'm just going to tell you a story about a thing that happened to me, So by now, we're about a month after And a lot of people are uploading their videos, and people have been asking me, And I haven't been able to tell anybody It's 10:00 PM, about a month later, I just now figured out if I succeeded And it's really fun, Okay, so let me take you back. A long time ago, a guy named Dr. Gordon Telepun told me I would love total This is going away It's unbelievable. But I took his word on it, In fact, in 2017, I did the math with a friend named Trevor, to capture the International Space Station But at that point, the most technical shot I had ever done with photography, Two, one, transit. I saw it. I totally saw it. Tara and I fell in love with total solar eclipses so much that two years later filmed that solar eclipse, in the middle of the desert My favorite shot of that eclipse in 2019 was this composite of a bunch I had strung them all together and laid and you can see the solar eclipse I love that shot. It's got multiple images in the same We love that photo. So when we realized there was going to be Tara had the idea, We've got He's the one that gave us It would be amazing to see So we decided to meet him And then Dr. Telepun said something that seemed so impossible to me, but it combined all the So color positive film? Yeah, just regular ectachrome, You want about six before? You don't want too many. Then we'll take a corona shot and we'll do about six after on the same piece of slide It would be really cool. To be clear, this is what Dr. Telepun was asking me to do. He said, you could do what you did all together with a digital But what if you did it Film is unforgiving. You get one shot at it, and then you have to develop it, So he was proposing that I put film and then I aim at the eclipse, and then I take a photo like that, and then I do that every 10 minutes or so, I get totality, and then The problem is most cameras When you take a photo, So you have to get a special camera that won't roll the film, exposure on one piece of film, one chance to take 20 something shots, So the risk is incredibly high, but you could get a really, probably the most technically difficult So that was the challenge. So I started trying to find cameras take this photo and not advance the film, I could not figure out a way to take a photo without moving the film and then because every time you reset the shutter, So what I needed was a camera with multi-shot mode, So as it got closer and closer to the Eclipse time, I realized I wasn't So I called my friends at the kamera These are my buddies. I sent them this long email, You go to sleep because we're in Finland. We will figure something out, and then And when they did, of Niko explaining everything I put together what I think Mami RZ67 Pro. And he explained everything So about a week out from the Eclipse, camera and the still camera Dr. Telapeen and I started trying All right, seven minutes. That's it. That's fun, isn't it? Yeah, it's really fun. One of the things I love about Dr. Telepun is he genuinely loves things, He loves eclipses, The night before the eclipse, it was just very clear that he wanted So Dr. First of all, he's teaching They're going to be graphing the temperature during the eclipse, This is where the eclipse Another cool thing about this My brother came my mother-in-law, my dad. We played some Mario Kart It was just good family time. You're going to try to beat Papa, Omi, All right. The morning of the Eclipse, Dr. Telepun started setting up his stations, just like the educational video He brought it all and he set it up, and kids started walking up, He was in teacher mode the whole time. He wanted to share everything. His son and my son His son started teaching my son And so my son started taking photos with a tracker mount, Dr. specific experiment and show people that She did a great job with that, So we had a line of cameras and tripods. We're all looking at the sun, Solar eclipse timer, and we're getting ready for C1, first Five, four, three, two, one. That's first contact. A couple of minutes later, it was time Thirty seconds. Once I set this camera in position, So I locked everything down as hard as I could, and I was quite scared But once you commit to this first photo, Three, two, one, zero. All right, now we got eight minutes. One of the things I messed up in Argentina and so my photos are not Dr. Telepun did the math with his app So every so often, we were very strict about taking so that we get the spacing And one thing that was funny is you had people tracker, amounts, all this stuff, And I'm out there with this Three, two, One, take. As the crescent of the sun got smaller and smaller, the sharp and fuzzy The light got really It feels so gross. Everyone's got it. Doesn't this feel gross? Like the light feel pukey to you guys? I took some 3D wiggle grams It takes four images at once. If you put them together, you can get As we got close to totality, Dr. Telepun's childlike joy Before I knew it, I heard the call out for shadow bands, Oh, shadow bands. Are they happening? Oh, they're happening. Hands on filters. I saw shadow bands with my eyes, They were too faint. But the most important see shadow bands. And then, totality happened, Holy cow. [Telepun] Look at Venus. Dude. [Destin] When do we shoot the shot? [Telepun] Let's wait a little bit. Oh, look at Venus. [T] Look at Jupiter. [D] Did you get the shots, brother? Just shoot of them. The beautiful thing about Totality being of time to take photos, I like to kiss Tara during Totality. I got to go say something to all the kids, It felt really strange at the moment taking that exposure, knowing I'm just hoping that I got the exposure right on the shutter speed, All right, here we go. Wow. I'm going to do 60. I got it. Before I knew it, people were [people in the crowd] Coming out. Oh, baby. The tiny face. Oh, wow. Oh, It comes back fast. [T] You got even four It's too fast. [T] I can't wait for Egypt. [D] After that, you just walk around and talk to people, and then we're waiting we've got more photos to take Okay, so we have done 11 What's about to happen is my daughter is 30 seconds. And this is the last photo, correct? Okay. All right, hit it. Great. Great job. Okay, the dark slide is in. And the photo should be in this. And it's going to take On the way back from Missouri, my dad Crazy, which made me even more I started looking at all the photos and videos, and I looked at my son's and I'm super happy that he's going to I think that's really neat. If you remember, he was He was taking photos, but this camera When I started looking at this footage, around the edges of the mountains So I started looking at it, and then I realized there is something It could be a bug, it could be a plane, Five seconds after the sun comes back, look at the right side of the [other people yelling] Oh, baby, she. You already did it. [D] Did you see it? I'll rewind it and we can watch it again. Look at the right side of the screen. This time, I'll put an arrow Baby, she. What's even more interesting is another one happens immediately after this, How do we figure out Now, the cool thing is once the sun started coming out, that's when During totality, and I'm assuming that's their It's a very difficult problem. So I went to the smartest I follow him online. His name is Jonathan McDowell. He runs planet4589.org which is a delightful old-school website that's just pure Jonathan is awesome, I started by showing him the video [J] real-time? [J] Okay. [D] Okay. [J] I Think it's going too fast. [D] Okay. I guess I wasn't thinking about [D] Then Then I asked how Jonathan would do the math to figure out if it was [J] We can figure out the angular velocity your field of view, because The sun is about half a degree across, Let's suppose that this is Let's say 500 kilometers away. Let's see if I divide 500 by 60. That's about eight kilometers a second. [J] It's not very different from the 7. 8 kilometers a second And so that is not inconsistent with the speed of a satellite going So the fact that we can't rule out that it was a satellite, It doesn't mean it was [D] It's fun, yeah. So it's possible that it was. So if this was a bug, it would be just But if it's a satellite, So one One way to test to see if it was a satellite or something, is to see if anybody in my area And there just happened to be I met him earlier that day, So this is Jeff Geerling. And what's the name [J] Jeff Geerling. My son and I set the camera up here to the north, and Jeff's camera We were about 130 meters apart. Just after C3, I saw The question is, That's the question. [J] I saw it in your video, and it does [D] So we looked at Jeff's raw footage, and Also, it was difficult to synchronize his point, he cut his camera Is it okay if I use this [J] Oh, definitely. If people want to check out your [J] Jeff Geerling. [D] There you go. G-e-e-r-l-i-n-g, correct? [J] Yeah, you got it. You didn't spell it Girling like a lot [D] There you go. Well, thank you very much, Jeff. And I will go compare these videos There were three main differences in the camera footage, Jeff's camera was more His was filmed at a different angle than mine, so I indexed off of Bayly's beads to And then I was more zoomed in, And once I got everything lined up, Okay, I think I've got it to where So here's Jeff's footage right here on the left, And you can see I've indexed the sun right there on that spot in that spot, So if I make this big... Okay, so you got Jeff's footage That's the object as it enters This is the object as it enters mine. If I step through, look at that. It's there. Look at that. It's in both of our views. We're about 100 yards away. So if the the solar disk is about half of a degree offset, That can't be a bug, right? If we're 100 yards apart, it can't be a bug in both of our No, more than that. And so you can work all the geometry. This is workable. [inaudible background talk] We're going to call this a W. That's got to be a satellite In fact, I had another camera set up, and if you go to the right frames, Even though this is a really wide angle, you can still see something zipped So I'm going to call this a win. We're going to call that satellite. My next question was, what satellite? I thought I had narrowed it down but when I submitted the NORAD Org and got the orbital data, sometimes called a two-line I then gave that to a smart friend of mine with the ability to simulate all this think 303-2-3 was close So here's the question, if it was a satellite, and I think it was, I think you have all You know where I was, 5.5 seconds after C3, What satellite do you think this was? I know someone on the Internet Space Force, I'm just going to say it. You should use this as a challenge mechanics, and then give them I'm super curious about this, and I'm excited to see All right, now it's time to check up on that piece of film we Okay, I'm driving to Indie Film Lab Somebody could have bumped the tripod. I could have gotten There's no way that we nailed this shot, myself I'm excited to have All right, we're at Indie Film Lab. Moment of truth. [G] Let's check it out. [G] That's the shot. [D] Oh, dude. It's there. I can see it. I can see it. [G] That's so cool. [D] Oh, man. [G] Yeah, that's going to be cool. [D] It's going to work. [J] I love it. [D] Oh, man. Okay. That's so cool. Watching Garret and Josh put this slide film into the Noritsu scanner was were about to figure Were the exposures the correct color? All the stuff. We were about to figure this out. Dude, that looks crazy. That is so cool. So is it scanning it now? [G] Yeah, it's scanning it now. I just did a quick adjustments to it. [D] I really like Indie Film Lab, and I love the fact that they're doing If you want your film scanned, These folks are awesome. Josh even took the print, and made a printout because we know whose mind will be blown by this image, [T] Is that it? [T] That one? [D] Look at it. [T] Are you kidding me? How come it's... That's unbelievable. That's it. [D] That's it. [T] Nobody has done that for years. [D] Look at it, though. can you see [T] Well, my eyesight is terrible. I need to get a magnifier. [D] Okay, go for it. [T] That's amazing. That's amazing. [D] I know, right? [T] This is the best one film [D] Yeah? The other ones I've seen, they only took maybe four partials on each Doing 10 in a row, [D] I didn't think we would get it, man. I'm going to level with you. I did not think we were going to get it. I knew we could do it. This is the way they used to do it. Open that up. Yeah, right? [T] I I'm telling you, I don't know I know, right? [D] It was pretty fun, right? [T] Wow. [D] I didn't think we'd do that good. [T] You already printed it. You, wild man. You've been keeping me in suspense. [D] I did it today. The Indie Film Lab did it for us. Josh at Indy Film Lab printed it. I've always thought that interested I heard that somewhere, Dr. Telepun is not only a good friend, whole total solar eclipse It was a blast to be able to watch It was great. I hope you enjoyed coming Also, I'm just grateful that you're here. If you want to consider subscribing If not, no big deal. I'm just glad that you're here. I'm Destin. Have a good one. If you support Smarter Every Day Thank you. Secondly, be on the look out It took me a while to get the lighting But yeah, I want to share this with you. You help make it happen, and I'm grateful. So patreon.com/smartereveryday. I want to show you guys the picture. Oh, wow. That's so cool. That's really cool. You guys took this as well. Okay. It's a group effort. Thank you very much for this.