Alright, look, we've been through this before. You know those animated cat shorts you've Well... THEY'RE. NOT. CATS. Much like with Pochi Science, I got And turns out there's some strange strange things going on. These shorts, made by Ho_Salt Follow a group of 7 cats, Though the majority of the channel Silly, often meme-ish scenarios Akin to something like Chickin Nugget. Although much looser with it's Much like Chickin Nugget, If you think too much about it, You might just find consistency... ...and a sad, sad story. Specific characters with very specific traits and abilities. A sad backstory. A weird detail. And you might try to brush some of this off as "not that serious" Or "just memes, stop looking into it" ... ...you're probably right-- [CUTS OFF-] [TITLE CARD: &quot;THEY AREN'T CATS.&quot;] We'll be going over all of the shorts from top to bottom, Though just to mention right off the bat, I will be skipping over the "House Bug" shorts, As they don't add anything after their initial appearances. Meaning we'll be focusing entirely on the cats. It's really hard to find these cat's names, However with a LOT of trial and error I was able to find them all, So I'll list them all off here so it doesn't get too confusing. First of all we have our two main cats, Curry, this calico one that's very playful, meme-ish, AND Sig, the black cat who's far But is stoic and relatively emotionless. As for side characters we have Salt Half, the white multicolored cat who's focused on Jo, the fluffy gray cat filled to the brim with TECHNICALLY their canonical name is Amongus But they refer to them as Jo in a past short, so I'm going to take that as my out so I don't have to say Amogus all day. We have Salgu the Sphynx Cat who has To the point they're most commonly seen standing on two legs. Loaf the orange and white cat that loves bread so much they cat turn into it and it's many forms at will. And lastly, Maya the yellow cat that Mice Simp over- Trust me we will GET TO THAT. With the characters over with, it's about time that "The Casual Arc" This is more towards the beginning of the channel when Salt first arrived and started posting and animating the cats, So there are a handful of inconsistencies as Salt And what their deal is. [Night Dancer - Noteblock Cover] The first video with the cats is the short It's a pretty basic video, following the Just with a REAL &quot;Sad Cat&quot; like the title suggests. A mouse pulls out a cucumber, and torments the This video is pretty different to Though I feel like that's mostly due to Chances are they didn't know it'd be The next short we see is another basic one. We have Loaf turning into a Loaf upon And then another basic one, but slightly more interesting... We see our first more OFFICIAL appearance of Sig, Wearing a Wednesday Cosplay and dancing. Although this is the only We'll see it CONSTANTLY referenced from here on out, Especially in later arcs. We'll see another quick one, this time Though something you're going to notice with is that Salgu is always standing up on their Although they start down here, They end dancing on top of Salt, Though this will only get more and Speaking of Salgu, we see this far With a VERY human dance from his part. We end on this picture of them all together, Though ignore this gray guy on the In "Excuse Me Brah - mouse" We see the return of mouse. Though here we see the extreme Not even in a prey/predator way, But more in a higher class/lower class way Something which will be brought up later down the line. Curry knocks over the mouse and their cheese, Which leads to them retaliating with "Clap Clap Shuffle Dance" brings us our first Maya appearance. Maya is pretty similar to Salgu, in which they Though they seem to have a strong Whereas Salgu stands on their hindlegs ALL the time, Maya only seems to appear from the perspective that Making them kind of like a &quot;Model&quot; of sorts rather than how Salgu does it more for their ...(Sigh)... "Sigma Cat Run Run Challenge" gives us our first Which as you can expect, is the traditional We finally start getting into the real lore at "You Like the Snow?" Where we get a peek at Maya's connection with the Mice. Maya's enjoying the Where, given how tiny their body is, They could die reasonably die. They panic, and Maya just... kinda mocks them. MAYA: &quot;Can you say SNOOOWW?&quot; MOUSE: &quot;UUUAAAAGGH--&quot; [VHS SOUND] This power dynamic is important for later, And so we reach the end of the Casual Arc at "Strike a Taunt" where we see Curry, Sig, and Maya all at the same time. We see multiple random poses akin Including that Wednesday Costume again, Though one of them changes mid-way into the video. Maya's... Adding a mouse... We see Maya adoring a mouse, who's subsequently bowing, Before being terrified as they become... In fact this is so important, that they don't even Just getting closer, until it finally switches away. [Night Dancer - Noteblock Cover] This is where things start to get weird, and we start getting introduced to the more "Sus Keyboard" brings us our good ol friend Jo. First official appearance if you don't count Toca Toca, As they press on a keyboard which gets slower and slower Until it reveals that it's been doing the For every press, you can see their face get darker and darker, Fully aware what they are walking towards, Suggesting that, this might be the thing that "Stray Cat in Block Blast" is an ad placement So I won't be taking into account But there are a few other details that seem to be canon, Amongst these, there are two parts to note. On a tray of food where they discover Block Blast, We can see a shaking tied up mouse... And the other more interesting thing, And does NOT take kindly to Curry stealing his catches. This COULD be a new character, but when not angry they have and of course the abnormal head shape, So I'll be referencing them as one and the same character. Back to the important stuff, we get a pretty big, if not It's here that we learn more about Sig, Basically telling us why they're so stoic all the time, Interestingly though, although it's understandable to show the heart "physically" for a symbolic interpretation, the heart is shown with stitches, BLEEDING Which of course is an EXTRA hard mile to LIQUIDS ARE HARD! Not to mention we get a lot of after-life imagery, As we see Sig die, We see ALL of the OTHER cats as angels, like twice? And other similar imagery. We are shown that Sig seemingly gave their But soon after we get an interesting line. [THEM CHANGES - Thundercat] [THEM CHANGES - Thundercat] [THEM CHANGES - Thundercat] [THEM CHANGES - Thundercat] Though I need to IMMEDIATELY mention. Last time I pointed out lyrics in a short, I got a baffling amount of comments saying y e a h The point of me pointing out the lyrics, Both here and in the Pochi video --is because of TIMING. Often times these shorts show That gives another layer of meaning through use of the song. So back when I was mentioning how in Pochi Science, it says "you can't go back" I was pointing out how they lined it up right as Grimace is turned into an anime girl. In that same way, HERE, Sig during these lines is shown And after a while, the heart breaks entirely, Rendering it impossible to find. But the question lies with, WHO was that cat in the middle. ...and more specifically, was it actually about love? Because I might have an idea who that Mysterious But first, We have more shorts to go through. Salgu's most prominent short is "Hello Everynyan" Where they show just how much they And how odd they are compared to most OTHER cats. And of course, Jo is there doing... Among Us things... The short "Wo Xing Shi" returns with Maya and the mice, Seemingly in a positive manner. Here we do get some minor hints As the Lyric's translate to: "My Family name is Shi" Showing that Maya has some form of Likely the fact that they're a cat. As it pans to the mouse, they dance as they say: "Regardless of when we meet, it will be my pleasure!" Showing that these Mice are like servants to Maya, And likely the other cats given how they're treated. Plus, we know that Ho_Salt DID understand what As when it shifts to the other, more fancy mouse They have a calligraphy bush as they say their With a horse symbol moving (or galloping) We finally get to see Half again in "Cat's Negotiation Method" As well as confirmation that Salt being a fisherman isn't just something for the sponsored sections, and is actively canon. Here, they use their cuteness to get a Much to their dismay. Here's another important one. In "Sunmi Stranger" we see... two Sig's. Just in this first frame you not only have TWO, But there's also these two eyes, which are Sig's exact colors. As none of the OTHER cats have Yellow Eyes. Upon being put into a machine, the other Sig is brought to life And upon it hitting night they look delightfully devilish Seymore. Though right at the end they fade into dust. It's definitely important for something... --but... I'll get into my many theories at the "Jubi Slide Cat" is another longer one, but i checked It's mostly just re-used assets. "Card Cat" however, is basically just showing I'm going to be honest though, I was half-way into coming up with names based on the shorts, before finally finding this short. So I'm not sure why this is the ONLY I thought Sig's actual name was SUNMI You're out here giving us theorists a headache..! "Raising a Cat for the first time, The Cat:" is a silly little meme where Salt And does that "Amazing Digital Circus deranged smile meme" That Pomni does when they realize Could have deeper meaning, or could be a meme, Either way, we'll move on. Here's the one that got ME introduced to the series... "Noisy Neighbor" We have a mouse, their sleeping is being disturbed, they check out the CURRY: &quot;CHIPPI-CHIPPI CHAPPA-CHAPPA&quot; CURRY: &quot;LOOBY-LOOBY LABBA-LABBA&quot; CURRY: &quot;MAGICO-ME LOOVY-LOOBY&quot; CURRY: &quot;BOOM, BOOM, BOO-&quot; The mouse tries to be reasonable and just ignore it, But in "Noisy Neighber 2" Curry literally, RIPS THE TOP OF THEIR HOUSE OFF Showing that they are tormenting them on purpose Even when they take the most passive route. That's like if on finals week, You hear one of your neighbors blaring bad music, You try to go to bed anyways, and upon seeing a GIANT RIPS-- --OPEN YOUR ROOF And starts blaring KSI's "The Thick of it" on their phone. Like if you're going to torture me, I have a hard enough time sleeping as is, wake up, still tired. You don't need to blare music at me to keep me up, IN "More cat please" we're shown that Just in a much less show-offy way. AAAANNND NOW, For the moment you've been waiting for!!! "How a cat works" we learn something rather peculiar. While Curry is being held "long"-wise they suddenly Showing that Curry is CANONICALLY As they use their robot-innards to rocket off into SPACE. I know I'm saying it a LOT, I hope you don't miss that OLD 3D model, We're given another, completely different look at Curry in 3D. But also Curry is the ONLY character that's been Which could indicate they're special. ...or they're just showing off a cool 3D model they made. Who knows. The IMMEDIATE next short shows us MORE of this, Though not in 3D, as Curry is shown in SEVERAL different art styles not typical of the series. "Pokedance" doesn't have much, just another AAAAND now we have ANOTHER Important Short... Bread. BREAD: &quot;All I--&quot; x1 BREAD: &quot;All I--&quot; x2 BREAD: &quot;All I--&quot; x3 BREAD: &quot;All I--&quot; x4 BREAD: &quot;Wanted...&quot; BREAD: &quot;Was a bit of---&quot; BREAD: &quot;BREAD&quot; Remember Loaf? Remember how they can turn into a loaf of bread because "haha cats when laying down look like bred oh mah gaughh" NO. IT'S LORE TIME. One of the first things we see are these legs and shoes-- Originally I assumed it was Bread But that's FARRR from the case. Remember that short from not that long ago? You know, the one where Curry turns into several art styles? One of the things Curry turns into is a Human... with a light skin tone. THIS human on the other hand has pure WHITE skin similar to Salt's, down to the FF But we KNOW it's not Salt... Because even when wearing clothing, OR shoes. Wouldn't it be much easier and less time So it's more recognizable as Salt? It'd have a lot less detail! Well it WOULD make sense to add it, if THIS is supposed to be a brand new character... We see Loaf turn into a variety of breads, From loaves, to bagels, to JUST slices, Which seems to indicate that Loaf can turn into ANY gluten-based food item. Though as we see immediately afterwards... DOE COUNTS. Doe can easily be separated, And yet Loaf can still reform themselves Which also implies the whole Ant-Man Conundrum You know, The "plot hole" any "uhm actually" ...if Antman can shrink to any size, they don't enter And then just return to normal size while BECAUSE Loaf can turn into Doe too, Theoretically, should Loaf ever gain murderous intent Loaf could just, turn into doe Be dispersed into a whole set of cupcakes and just cause an instant mass-scale Returning to the video, we ALSO see them This isn't the first time we've seen how resistant to heat they are As their FIRST appearance had them laying on a space heater, Which can get as hot as 120deg Fahrenheit, or 50deg Celsius. Though the inside of an OVEN can get The optimal heat for bread-making Or 245deg Celsius so basically Loaf is completely fire-resistant, -ing bread. Ooh here's a weird one. "A Thousand Miles Cat" Given the stretchy powers we've seen other cats have, Their bottom half must be pretty Either way Curry sings a meow'd version while driving with... Ghost from Call of Duty. They're not even animated or anything- I didn't edit this, you can check for yourself. Curry is canonically friends with Ghost from Call of Duty?? Or at the very least acquainted enough despite being a literal cat. Another possible lore moment, We see Maya and Jo interact for the first time... In which Maya sings that Jo is an Alien. And cooped with the space aesthetic, and it seems pretty much canon. Especially with Jo flipping upside Which is a pretty FAR CRY from the other "Fish Thief in Block Blast" gives us even And how un-cat-like they are. Cat's are VERY notoriously hateful of water... But Curry jumps into it like it's nothing when They only freak out when they see a shark. And with that, We've reached our final, and CURRENT arc... THE MOUSE WAR. [Night Dancer - Noteblock Cover] It all starts at Where this mouse wizard, for the first time in ANY of the mice Where mice are not allowed to initiate an And even then have never been allowed to do while the cat's knowingly take hostages... The Wizard bonks the cat a Nothing bad! Just harmless fun... but unfortunately, They have started something that can never be undone. Ok, so turns out I accidentally forgot one somehow?? Not sure how given this explains the importance but basically, Because the Mouse Wizard was able This caused this next video titled &quot;Mouse Music&quot; We see the start of the mouse uprising, As the mice realize they don't need to This is only a small clip, but basically, as they easily eat the cat's food. Because Half is a coward, they just cry that's it that's the video Though it DOES make sense as it ties into our next video Because from this point onwards, The Mice are actually willing to fight back! With more than just cucumbers! "Mouse vs Cat" starts to show As the OTHER Mice FINALLY start fighting back. It starts simple with a flyswatter and a cucumber, But evolves into giant objects that A Keyboard, A Mouse Trap, A TV. Though eventually, Because this is another Block Blast commercial... This leads to them accidentally killing Salt. Their owner... DIED by their simple war... ...and how does Curry respond? They just stare blankly... with RED EYES. They aren't even highlights or anything, they're dead center. Almost like when a robot goes rogue in media! SEE I TOLD YOU THEY'RE CANONICALLY A ROBOT NOW! Just for extra context, The mouse also gets red eyes, But they're VERY clearly highlights, Reflecting from CURRY'S glowing red eyes. Notice how below there's also WHITE reflecting? VERY different. The last important short we have as of Which just shows Half doing regular cat things And just generally being cute and scared of everything. At the very end though, we see a brand new character, This Parasol Girl Which might be Half's owner? Though I guess we'll have to wait and see if she returns soon. That, and how the rest of the Mouse War pans out. We've only gotten a few shorts showing it, But from what it looks like it might Though, now that we've gone over all we can it's time for the theory I've been building up towards... From what we've seen these cats are In fact, Curry is, at the very minimum, part-robot. Jo is strongly implied to be an alien And Sig has a bunch of weird "dead-man walking" motifs Which is why I think... These &quot;CATS&quot;are all from different experiments. Jo of course is an alien. OR they're an alien implanted into the body of a cat. Hence all of the weird anomalous floaty stuff they can do and of course their admiration of Amongus. Curry as stated previously is part-robot. However, I think, taking into account Sig's backstory... They have a pretty deep connection there. Specifically, in that Curry IS the person ...but not necessarily in a romantic way. You see, Curry towards the start but after a certain point, became a lot more just dancing, or doing whatever. Especially in regards to forgetting how to cat, Like jumping straight into water without caring. Which is why I think that THIS is --back when Sig was a stray! However, at some point, Curry was and given these robot features (or turned fully into a robot, take your pick) Unfortunately though, these experiments when Sig finally found them, Curry didn't remember them or their friendship, Thus making Sig think that he "threw their heart away" Having spent so long searching for "his heart" though- -searching for Curry- This led to him dying a stray hence Sig being dazed in the trash, This could be due to starvation or thirst as Only to be brought back by the very same experimenters, Just without their "heart" In fact, the short "Sunmi Stranger" from earlier Might have been an exact reenactment of So basically, Curry and Sig were strays together Good buds! But then Curry was taken away to be experimented on. When they're turned into a robot, They lose part of themselves, and no longer remember Sig by the time Sig finally finds them. Distraught, Sig dies a stray, But the experimenters bring Ok so update time I have two additions First of all, uh... I was wrong about it being non-platonic? As I was editing this video a NEW set of shorts was posted, most of them aren't lore important-- EXCEPT for "Apt Apt" Which has Sig and Curry together dancing in some dapper garb. Though during this it puts a pretty heavy Like love hearts and everything Which if my theory is true... This is setting up SUCH GOOD ANGST! Because NOW the story is that-- AFTER Curry was turned into a cyborg and forgot Sig, Curry fell in love with him again, But doesn't know he lost his heart. Which is just SO, SO, TRAGIC AAAAAA. Though this DOES semi confirm that Curry is a Cyborg, NOT a Robot. Either that or they made the AI Another little thing i noticed while editing is Where we learn Sig's backstory After the heart was broken, but BEFORE it broke entirely when Sig is still searching for it, One of the imagery we see is the heart encased in ice. Often times in surgery, The replacement organ is stored in ice And prevent cell damage before it's Which could be an interesting parallel for my theory. THIS heart is the heart implanted in him to resuscitate him And if you want the bonus, The cups we see look suspiciously like those bedside pitchers Filled with pellet ice that patients get Just without the handle. This hospital ice being used explicitly Like in some surgeries? Just wanted to point it out. Back to past me. The others don't have AS direct of one, As Loaf is just... Loaf... but the others have some reasonable concepts For example, Salgu could be a cat Hence why they prefer standing on two legs, Some part of his mind instinctually craves it, Because mentally he's not a cat like the rest! Same could be said about Maya Who also seems very aware and "person-like" Though it's clearly not done in the same way as Salgu. They don't seem to be doing it because But it seems to be more like they STARTED human. Out of all the characters they're the one Unlike characters like Curry who sing Maya dances far more complex-ly, and has an understanding of how to use the Mice and her power dynamic to their advantage. Because of that, I think Maya might have been Likely willingly as they seem to like it, but then again, who wouldn't want to sleep all day and not have to Like- Sign me UP! The Experiment Theory ALSO matches up with that the cats all seem in agreement not to hurt, and that the mice seem confident enough to be around to not see themselves in immediate It's because THEY'RE experiments too. They're LAB MICE, that the Scientists likely Half is the only one I'm certain As they haven't done ANYTHING And with the recent recognition on the channel, Especially with that last short, I wonder if they'll be getting experimented on soon? Or maybe they'll be safe, given my other question... What about Salt and the other humans? Well there's two different possibilities Either they're with the science group Or more LIKELY, Once the experiments were done, The cats were put up for adoption Where they were then adopted by people like Salt. Loaf of course was adopted by The Mysterious Bread Girl, Half was adopted by the Parasol Girl, and Curry, Sig, and Salgu, were all adopted by Salt As we see them all in the same room for multiple shorts. The reason other cats appear, is because when animals are They're usually given the information of other owners Meaning, they are all visiting when Speaking of, we don't currently know of Jo or Maya's owners IF they have any... but it seems to be pretty consistent. It would also explain why Half isn't anomalous! Maybe Half was just a random cat they adopted, And they just happen to visit too Either way though, Ho_Salt, your cats are weird... and you should take them into the vet 'cause they might be aliens... or robots... or... very very depressed... [DEEP INHALE] ...okay BYEEEEE!