(Sounds of sawing) Boris Ritscher builds drums in the Mittelmuhle in Osthofen. His current project packs a punch. The customer wants a set of seven drums. Some of them will also be extra large. The set is beyond the dimensions even for me. So with an 18 mm floor tom and a 26 mm bass drum - that's a huge set. But also a tribute to all his heroes: Phil Collins and John Bonham, who played such huge bass drums. (Sounds of sawing) Boris Ritscher considers himself an upcycler. In other words, he makes new products out of seemingly useless material . Born in Rheinhesse, he lives up to his origins. Because he prefers to work with a very specific type of wood. The oak staves of old wine barrels. Where I find metal a bit boring because it is homogeneous and can be reproduced as often as you like - that's just not the case with wood. Each piece of wood is unique and one of a kind. And every now and then my wife catches me when I want to put the wooden board on the stove, I already have the door open and then see, oh, there's something great about the grain, then I smuggle the thing secretly into her workshop and think, let's make a drum out of it. I'm really a nerd. I don't even know if there is a name. &quot;Lignumphil&quot; or something. Don't know if that's so... I do n't know. But I'm totally crazy about wood anyway. Fortunately, the winemakers in the area know about this wood craze. They provide the drum builder with enough of his favorite material. So this is a stave from an old wine barrel. That was a, I think, 5,000 liter wine barrel. So very large barrels, like they used to be used in the past. They are now being phased out very slowly but surely. And in order to be able to make something out of it properly, they first have to be cleaned. You can see there's a heap of dust and dirt on it from the centuries. And sometimes quite a deposit of the tartar. (Scratching noises) Boris Ritscher first builds the 18 floor tom from the old wine barrel staves. So a drum with a diameter of 18 inches. For this he needs 24 straight boards. He has to cut them out of the barrel staves. That's okay so far. Now we can scribe the whole board to the appropriate length. The trick is basically to cut out the straight pieces of wood from this bent stave that I need to build the drum. That's very interesting, at first glance you think it's a completely curved board, but that's not the case. If you stick to the meter here, you can see... that the first piece of the barrel stave, the first 50 or 60 centimetres, is pretty straight. And the curvature actually only takes place here in the middle. That's why I always use the front and... the front ends of the stave there. Unfortunately, the piece in the middle is rubbish. This is simply sawn off here at the lines that I have marked . And then planed again. The 18 floor tom should be 45.7 centimeters long at the end. This is what has been agreed with the customer. In the beginning, however, the drum builder prefers to be a little more generous when it comes to measuring and sawing . (The sawing noises fade away.) (The sawing noises start to get louder again.) When working with wood, it is important to have boards with standing growth rings. In fact, it was also very important for the coopers who made the barrels back then that the barrels were stable. In this respect, the wood in the oak barrels is already preselected in principle. Of course we can... (knock) You can hear that, it's bone-hard oak. If I remember correctly, the barrels are from 1913. And I've been drying them for a number of years. So you can't have much better wood quality. In the next step, the drum builder brings the barrel staves to their later width. To do this, he marks the places where the edges are to be cut off. Each of the 24 staves has to be six centimeters wide so that they can be glued together to form a round shell. This time it goes backwards to the band saw. (Screeching sawing noises) (The saw rattles softly.) (Screeching sawing noises) Now it's a matter of making a straight board out of the still rounded stave. To do this, the drum builder planes the rounded edges of the wine barrel. (Grinding noises) (The grinder stops.) Yes. So here you can see now, that's nice. What was previously so dark, round and wavy, is now absolutely clean, absolutely flat. The grain comes through really well here. This is now our reference page for all further work steps. The next position would then be on the band saw, here - in principle at the stop - to cut open so that we have a board with an even thickness. And then it's almost time to build the drum. (Soft whirring) (Screeching sawing noises) As the old barrel staves were being sawed through, a strong smell of red wine gradually spread through the workshop . Another reason why Boris Ritscher likes to work on barrel staves. However, he has also built drums from other woods. I also used my parents' window to make a snare. I also play it myself. Then I did for a customer - I found that funny - I was at his house for a preliminary talk, I planned a drum set, his father came and said: &quot;If you need wood, I'll throw down the living room wall unit bulky waste.&quot; That was &quot;Gelsenkirchen Baroque&quot;, they say. This is oak, radical. Then he said without further ado: &quot;Yes, is that possible?&quot; We measured, I say: &quot;The fronts are solid, of course.&quot; Then we built him a drum kit from his parents' closet wall. He's a professional musician and I have a photo of him lying in his cradle in front of the wall unit as a baby , and photos of him sitting behind a set as a grown man and playing in front of 1,000 people. In the next step, we are now basically making staves again. This time just for the drum. The whole thing is that you have to cut these bevels very precisely here. And then this ring, or this polygon, is glued. I have a little scrap here. Here you can see the individual boards. And how they are glued here. It really depends on 0.1/0.2 degrees. With angular accuracy. So that later, as in this piece, there are actually no longer any visible glue joints and it is completely closed. The drum builder bevels the staves on each side by exactly 7.5 degrees. So he can later glue them together in a circle. After the first stave, he uses the protractor to check whether the slopes fit. Looks good. He does the whole thing a total of 48 times. For the one drum. There will be seven in total. (Saw noises) We have now cut all 24 staves for the 18 floor tom. Angles are great so far. The cutting quality is also great, but in order to get the very last bit of precision, and so that the joints when gluing are really invisible later on, it has still proven itself, just like a hundred years ago, to simply use the good old hand plane. I always just clamp it in stationary with me. I was told that even the old barrel makers worked like that. So no planer in hand. But the workpiece to the planer. (grinding noises) So, and that's an absolutely perfect surface now. When it comes to visual issues, the drum builder is happy to let his customers have a say. Together with Daniel Schwarz, he determines the future look of the drums. Once the number 18. Very good. - Now we have to... all that stuff... Basically you see the slope here. mmm - That is then logically the outside. Lay down everyone. - Yes. Then we sort. That's why I said you should come with me. mmm - Then you can look out for the picture of what the drum will look like from the outside later. - Yes. There it is a bit ... Because it also has a cool grain. But I almost think... That... Look. Put that next to it. That's a very stark contrast. - Yes. A process that can take time. That there, for example, to the. - Yes. Then we have the contrast to that again. Slide them in next to each other. Look, doesn't that fit in between, purely in terms of color? This... - This? Yes. Have a look. Because it's also a tad darker. - Yes. Yes. Yeah, look, that looks pretty cool down there. - Yes. Then it is glued. So, I'll now fix these 24 staves with... with tape. Because we want to glue them into a circle and unfortunately I don't have 24 hands. And that's why the adhesive tape is used here to hold it together. Or then on the ... That's the outside. Practical as a hinge, so I can even form this circle with two hands. The bevels that Boris Ritscher just sawed are now clearly recognizable. The 15 degree gaps between the staves are filled with glue. Now sensible glue is used here. And don't apply it too sparingly . You shouldn't be too stingy. With glue, it's better to have the feeling that it's oozing out than that there isn't enough in there somewhere. This is also a special instrument glue that just hardens as it hardens. And thereby the kettle swinging ... not hindered. So. So, the whole thing is still here ... distribute well. Of course, the best thing is always when you glue the staves together and then see for the first time that it results in a round shape. It's otherwise like in automobile construction, as if the engine were married to the body. For me, this is the point where boards and individual parts become a whole body. Now it's getting serious. The cauldron finally gets its round shape. Once it is standing, it must be fixed with metal bands as soon as possible so that it can harden stably. (Boris breathes heavily.) Yes. Everything looks good so far. Joints are pretty tight. Yes. Now let the whole thing dry overnight. The hobby drummer has been building his drums for about six years. At some point, the ones he bought were no longer good enough for him. I also noticed in myself, in my own consumer behavior, that it just didn't really fascinate me anymore. It all became more and more similar at some point. This is perhaps comparable to cars. In the 1960s, Citroen and Mercedes and a Jaguar were entirely different concepts. If you see that today, you have to look at the brand emblem to tell the difference. Some drummers are looking for a special sound. Then they are in good hands with a box builder like me, because we build very special things in this direction. (Incomprehensible) Kastenbauer means that Boris Ritscher manufactures the drum kits according to the wishes of his customers. Daniel Schwarz, for example, wanted particularly large drums with very thin walls. The boiler hardened well overnight. Before you can continue, you have to unpack it again. (squeaking) Basically, the drum builder made another barrel out of a barrel. Slowly you can guess what the drum should look like later. So, that's basically the last checking look. On the leases. If something were wrong, you would basically have to start all over again. But it all looks great. Yes, here you can already hear that a real sound is being created. It only becomes really great when the drum is round and has an even wall thickness. Then the sound goes even deeper. OK. On to the turning. Round shooting is again in the rear workshop room. Before the drum builder can clamp the shell in the milling machine, he has to center it so that the milling machine removes the material evenly at all points. (screwing noises) Boris Ritscher assembled the milling machines himself. Like his drums, they too are upcycled. It's all picked up from the scrap yard. I messed up my parents' old canopy and a turn-of-the-century transmission from a friend. It's all combined and it took a while before it got to the point where it worked. The machine is now running perfectly and has turned dozens of boilers. First up is the outside of the drum. (Sanding noises) The milling machine removes the excess wood millimeter by millimeter. (Scratching noises) The milling machine moves from right to left and back again several times. After each track, Boris Ritscher only lowers it a little. Otherwise the machine would run too hot. So the whole process ends up taking almost two hours. So now I'm basically setting the length here. Next to the pencil mark, Boris Ritscher mills a long notch, a so-called groove. A smooth surface not only feels good later on, it is also crucial for the grain to come into its own after oiling. Therefore, the drum builder takes a lot of time for this step. The fascination for the material wood is not the only reason why Boris Ritscher builds drums. I've more or less given up trying to be a really good drummer again. That's why I'm very happy when people who are more talented than me or who have just practiced more diligently find the sound with my instruments and have fun with it. When I then hear that my drum kits are being recorded on CDs, then somehow music has been made, albeit indirectly. The groove comes into play again in the next step. With the handsaw, the drum builder can now easily cut off the shell at the marking. The drum now moves to the other side of the machine. A milling machine is also attached there, this time the inside is turned round. Again, this takes several milling passes and several hours. Meanwhile, Boris Ritscher and his customer Daniel continue to work on the other drums. In fact, everything always runs in parallel somehow. If I cut the staves on one machine, then another shell is already finished, while that one is milling, I grind another one, then I oil the first one again. So that it always merges seamlessly. (Milling noise) (He turns the machine off.) The next step is the burr. This means that the head, which is later stretched over the drum, needs a defined, clean contact surface. To do this, it is basically bevelled, which is then called cup grading. And that's what we're doing here. It's a milling machine that's built into the table. And here on the bearing there is a thrust ring. That means, like here with the broom, for example, if you want to bevel the wood a bit on the outside, then you can just pass it over here. With smooth movements, the drum builder bevels the edges on both sides. Craftsmanship has a very special meaning for him. I think it's just nice when you create something. &quot;Creates&quot; sounds so pompous, but it's just what you do with your hands. That is indeed a question that one often asks, whether the human brain actually developed in this way because he had hands, or whether the hands developed because he had a brain. If man developed from the mind because he had hands and could do something with them, what happens when you stop doing something with your hands? Do you become totally stupid again or what? That's why I think it's very important, whether it's with children or as an adult, to do something with your hands, it's also good for your head. The next big moment has come. The oiling is on. Boris Ritscher re-sanded the shell by hand so that the oil can now achieve its full effect. He prefers to use natural linseed oil for this step. That turned out very nice. Great surface, especially the glued joints are perfect. It's always a nice moment when the oil is on it and you can see the surface here with all the shades, which is what it's like here... in the light, here the grain. It's because of the fine sanding and the oil, it's almost like this little picture there, with the laughing and crying face. If you put it that way, it's a bit of a 3D effect. Yes, wonderful. Some people drown everything in oil. So I apply it generously so that the wood basically takes what it needs and rub the whole piece really dry. And then sometimes do up to ten more passes, but with only a very small amount of oil, and really polish it up. And that gives a beautiful surface, especially if you do some tinkering at home, as a tip, that's how I do it. After several passes of oil on both sides , the drum is ready to receive its decoration. 16 lugs must be attached. Not only do they look beautiful, they also serve to attach the skin and tuning screws. To distribute them evenly on the boiler , Boris Ritscher uses a template. The purple line belongs to the 18er floor tom and shows where the lugs have to be placed. The drum builder gradually marks the appropriate places with adhesive strips. It looks rough at first, but will be very useful later. Next he draws straight lines. He has to be very precise. He will later drill the holes for the lugs on these marks . But before that, another aesthetic question comes into play: At what height do the lugs look best? So how long do the tuning screws have to be? In order to test the various possibilities , Boris Ritscher puts on the hoops with tuning screws of different lengths. (sigh) Not an easy decision. Daniel! Have a look. I have now taken three different screw lengths. - Yes. It's a bit... I'm too... - I don't like it that much. OK. - Yes, that'll fall out. That's the question now, I actually find those two... Mhmhm, that... Hm. - Yes, hm, right? Yes. - (laughing:) Hm. I don't know why, but I tend towards the shorter one. Yes, me too. - I don't even know why. I usually use it more often... I think that's simply because A) they're relatively large and B) they're quite a lot of wood. - It can be. That would work too. - It's okay, but the coolest thing is this one. Definitive. - Yes, I'm in. Then we take the short ones. (They talk at once.) Then we'll quickly draw that. Let's lift it. - Yippee! Fits. Good. So 40 millimeters. The drum builder measures this exact length and marks it on the pencil lines. That also takes time. Actually, I'm all alone here and I enjoy it too. Because it's always nice and quiet here in the workshop, and you can see the weather outside through the large windows. And the chickens from the neighbors here are still cackling. Well, I think it's a nice atmosphere, I like working here just for myself. There's almost something meditative about it when you're pottering around. At some point the peace will be over. Drilling is about to start. But before that, Boris Ritscher pierces the marked spot with a center punch. (click) (click) (click) (drilling noise) The sound of the drum does not depend on where exactly the lugs are attached. So it's all about the optics. According to the drum builder, this is more classic with this drum set, as a homage to the big names in the drum world. (Drilling noise) You might have expected it differently, but Boris Ritschert actually didn't make this part of the drum himself. I've forged lugs and tires myself, but of course that's amazing work. So I usually buy that. In the case of Daniel's drums, it's great that he bought everything used together. So second-hand goats. They also go better with the old barrel staves. Next, the screws for the three legs are attached. (screwing noise) So, that's it for now with the assembly work. One thing is then assembled. The handwriting of the artist must not be missing. By the way, Boris Ritscher has hidden the ventilation hole under the badge. It ensures pressure equalization so that the drum does not become out of tune with changing temperatures. Then all you have to do is attach the skin and hoops. Routine work for every drummer. The special thing about the midmill drums: They will remind their owner of the wood they are made of every time the skin changes. If you change the skins, it can happen that you get a load of wine smell again. But I also find it beautiful. You can see immediately whether the burr is successful and whether the skin can vibrate well - it already looks good. But how does the barrel oak drum sound compared to industrially manufactured drum kits? In terms of sound, I would say yes, a little harder. Although I think that the type of wood is not so important, but that it is actually the construction. For example, the industrially manufactured drum kits are made of layers of veneer, i.e. glued together like skateboards or multiplex panels. This is of course very stable, but I don't necessarily think it's the best option in terms of sound. All you have to do is attach the three legs and the 18 mm floor tom is finally complete. A good feeling, right? Emotions sometimes take a rollercoaster ride. In about 50 percent of all cases, it happens that I don't want to give the thing away, right? Because you always do it as well as you can, and you make an effort, and then of course there are really nice instruments. Then the musician and drummer comes through again. I then hand it over, but with a crying eye. So, the 18 floor tom ... (He taps it.) for Daniel is ready so far. And meanwhile we have already started all the other boilers. That means that this is still the raw state of the 16 floor tom. Little sister of this one. 12 hanging tom, 10 hanging tom, very thin. And also here the snare drum, with a little more band thickness. Yes, now of course we continue with our giant bass drums. Which, as I said, should have 26 inches. So this is now also premiere for me. But that, yes, will now be a challenge. I'm really excited to see if it works out the way we imagined. I'm excited. So the biggest challenge of the set is yet to come. Will you be able to glue and set up 30 bass drum boards without them falling apart? (handling sounds) Let's take it right here in the middle. - Mmm. And when we're in the middle, hopefully we'll meet. Back in the middle? - Back in the middle. OK. Take you by the corner. OK. OK, go on, go on, go on. So keep that together. Can you give me this... Go on, go on, go on. Very good. So, I'd try it carefully now... You put away the wooden board and I'll set it up. The drum colossus is standing - challenge mastered. (They tune the drums.) Two weeks later, the time has finally come. The finished drum kit has arrived in Daniel Schwarz's rehearsal room for the sound check. The two worked on it for a good 120 hours. A handmade set of this size ends up costing around 6,000 euros. Customer Daniel makes a lot of noise. The big bass drum was a risk that paid off. She's got a lot of bang. Look here, play the bass drum. With the low drums you always have the problem that they rumble, that they are uncontrolled, that it becomes a bit diffuse. (They talk at once.) Then we're screwed. And here, completely undamped, the thing is absolutely precise. The two look happy. Great. It was a lot of work, but it was really worth it. I have to say that we really got the best out of everything. The toms very crisp and very ... yes, assertive. And then these floor toms, the big ones, and the bass drum, it's just huge and massive. Everything is vibrating, those are murderous pressure waves that are coming. You also notice the draft that comes out there, quite brutal. Those huge drums there, they're usually always so hard to get under control. And the part: completely easy to handle. You don't need blankets in there and no pillows. The thing just does what it's supposed to. So fantastic, looks great, yes, totally happy. SWR 2019