Oh! - Are you okay? - Hang on. - Yeah. My fault, my fault. (CLEARING THROAT) You can choose your friends, This is true. Unless you adopt. Oh, careful! (GERVAIS LAUGHING) They're going, &quot;Oh, Orlando. Who's that I'm going, &quot;It's Johnny Depp,&quot; right? You know, Johnny Depp. &quot;Oh, Johnny, Johnny.&quot; Well, they're going... (ALL LAUGHING) You've embarrassed yourself. Artexing? Suddenly it's... I'm appalled. This is just... I'm scandalised. (ALL LAUGHING) No. That's what I was gonna say, actually. The weird thing is, the more the ratings go through the roof. It doesn't make sense. And I was thinking about it, &quot;who are doing really, really good stuff - What am I talking about? You lost it early on. You went off-road and you really couldn't You've got your wee, angry, And you feel inferior, and you want to, like, get on really well &quot;Ooh, Andy Millman,&quot; look up to you. What is his name? The famous one? Begins with &quot;N&quot;, GERVAIS: (LAUGHING) What are you... MERCHANT: Ashley, you're only doing Noel Edmonds is the laugh. We've got to - Why? What's he doing? Oh, no time. Here they come. I was meant to be over there, wasn't I? Bloody hell, Rita. You look terrible. I was up till 2:00 am Oh, science homework, you silly bitch. (ALL LAUGHING) Do you know, I met a bloke once who said What did you say? Well, I said, - What did he say? Do you know, I met a bloke once who said - What did you say? Oh, I've got to do it again, haven't I? Do you know, I met a bloke once who told me What did you say? Oh, I said, - What did he say? - Not surprised. that I'd only do it if we could take Oh, fuck! Why do puppies die? I love you. - Sorry. (BEEPING) - Are you gonna explode? I'm just reversing. I was gonna go and get a drink. - I'll have a cup of tea. Well, I think it's just mostly teas and coffees Want to list some more? We've got all day. &quot;Millman had been glugging - Pissed. - Did you glug it, though? - Says here you glugged it. (GULPING) - Oh, pissed. - Did you glug it, though? Says here you glugged it... A lot of people can't get away (ALL LAUGHING) (STAMMERING) Actually, get me that bra. (ALL LAUGHING) MAN: Okay, very still, guys. MERCHANT: Still doing the boxing, are you? (ALL LAUGHING) I can't believe we've never utilised that. (MERCHANT HUMMING DANCE RIFF - Okay. See, it's muscle underneath. Okay. MAN: Very still. We sat on the bed yesterday Let's not discuss that Like that. I put pillows down the middle. Didn't stop him. Watching the football like that. Reading the papers as well. Not this Sunday morning. I don't... - Okay. Oh, dear. Now I can get out and enjoy Yuma, yuma, yuma, yuma. Oh, God. I'm in a big... It's like a swamp! - There's too much suction on my feet! I'm just tired of people interfering and me having to bend over (EXCLAIMING) - No disrespect to either of you. - No, it's good, though. No, no, no. It's good. Made me laugh. I'm just tired of people telling me and me having to bend over (EXCLAIMING) - No disrespect to either of you as gays. I'm sick of people just coming along and and me just having to take it up the arse. (EXCLAIMING) No disrespect to either of you as gays. You know, I mean, Difficult to tell just from looking at you. Well, it's completely ruined 'cause I've been I'm not gay, Nip that in the bud, and don't say it round - Ooh. - Electricity. - I don't care about hair. Of course it's my fucking hair. - I can see the plugs. MAN: Okay, cut there. I'm doing really well. Ooh, he doesn't want to be like you. Look. - Andy Pandy... GERVAIS: When did you (HAWKING) - Sorry! # When you try your best # When you get what you want # When you feel so tired but you can't sleep # Stuck in reverse # Lights will guide you home # And ignite your bones # And I will try to fix you # Oh, fucking hell. (CHUCKLING) Are you having a laugh?