Steven, I have to interrupt you, because we have just learned at the moment, by the British Press Agency, that Diana, Princess of Wales, is dead. Sunday August 31, 1997. The brutal news is spreading Hello sir madam, the Princess of Wales, Lady Di in a car crash. She was in the wrong place, with the wrong people. The black Mercedes where Diana had taken Egyptian billionaire Dodi Al-Fayed, hit head-on the 13e pillar At 12:25 a.m. exactly. In the tunnel I hear a double And below I see the Mercedes Headlights on. 3h30 later, we have to divorced wife of the Prince of Wales, England has lost its smile. His princess passed away this morning at It was impossible not to be moved. It was an extraordinarily moment Without contest. the most beloved in the world The event is huge including political and diplomatic. Emotion is global we are trying to find out more. Who owned the sedan? Was she driving fast? Yes. But then why? Where was she headed to? Were there only witnesses? And if it weren't Very quickly, the rumor swells. In a few hours, what is taking shape, The riddle of the century. Thus, Lady Di died at the end of a story that had begun On this July 29, 1981, more than 750 million viewers have their eyes on London, A colorful London They follow more or less dazzled by the the solemn episodes of a The late union Heir to the English crown, and the young, naive, shy and delicious The special envoys never end They are moved like everyone else, exhibited by the brand new princess. And that day, many are the men who, feel a little in love with Lady Di. Problem, it's not I'm surprised she was - And, I imagine, in love? It all depends on It's a matter of interpretation. Look at Diana's face She looks at him, puzzled, &quot;Don't you know what love is? I know it. Why not you ?&quot; Paul Burrell was the butler of the It has become over time You know, Prince Charles was Where love is not expressed in the same way. They are not like us. The royal family is totally different. They are almost alien Promise to love her, to honor him in health and sickness, and, renouncing all other, throughout your life. I want it. If Diana makes a love match, Prince Charles, he did not consent It's his grandmother, the queen mother who more or less arranged the union with this young girl from a very good family, from a line she knows well, However, if Diana has always known she doesn't know the codes Believing to marry Prince Charming, she will find out soon enough and the prisoner of official charges Since we know the identity she is harassed by photographers. I wouldn't say anything, sorry. It's the beginning of a hunt that will be interrupted The princess quickly acquires a The shy young girl is transformed Attitude, bearing, with each movement, the glances A popularity that even April 1983. When the crowd hailed he was perfectly happy I came to the conclusion that he would have to cover both sides of the street, I could thus have walked in the center, Romance helping, the first years can On June 21, 1982, appearances are saved But these fairy tale images, hide a reality less and less especially during birth September 15, 1984. The princess told me Charles came to the hospital He said, &quot;Another boy, Now I have an heir as well I'm going out tonight. Diana said to me, &quot;The night Harry was born, I fell asleep crying, So the crown prince barely hides his Camilla Parker Bowles. Camilla has always been there, Diana always knew, but she thought She thought that being married to Charles But it didn't change anything for Charles. Why didn't he marry her? Because it did not correspond to She also married Diana gradually discovers this situation, and the feeling grows to be just a toy Not happy to leave her, She had a beautiful fabric dress and he said to him: &quot;You look like a stewardess He completely hated her. Words can sometimes be I never saw Charles do but i saw him He told her she was too fat which constantly undermined her and made her She was on edge. But neither Charles nor the royal family to hear its warning signals. I was in Sandingan when Diana No one was listening to him. She had to do dramatic things and listen to what she had to say. On a daily basis, the relationship between Diana herself will end but we must maintain the illusion. October 4, 1985. The family welcomes a film crew to the official residence of the couple. This is to reassure the public The acting is perfect. I imagine most husbands But not us! But sometimes we happen... No, not us. They both play the game, From 1987, Charles and Diana on official trips. But they continue Until 1992, when the fragile February 10, But it's alone in front of the Taj Mahal, that Diana is photographed. The symbol is strong. These images will go around the world. June 7, 1992. Less than three months later, Journalist Andrew Morton reveals to the daily life of the future Queen of England. Charles wasn't listening to me, and I cut my chest There was a lot of blood. Members of the royal family was especially when they realized It was unheard of. Royal princesses and more must not speak to the media. It's a rule that comes from above, Andrew Morton's highly anticipated book on the finally hit the shelves. At noon, some bookstores had The publisher has ordered a second printing Like always, Thinking I can still the queen remains stoic. But one scandal chases another. They are primarily recordings of between Diana and one of her close friends, Then the existence of his relationship the riding instructor Few weeks later, an eight-minute recording, intimate exchanges between Charles and Camilla Obviously, this succession of scandals, strongly displeases Buckingham Palace, Diana, the young woman she believed Even some of his fights In April 1987, while Diana to commit publicly by squeezing the queen had recommended him to choose It's a big first, no member of the royal family in South Korea so far. November 2, 1992, Charles and Diana, under the greedy goals do what will be theirs For the royal couple, it is an occasion Although the princess does not look But the length of the journey The princess does not play She wears a closed face, looking constantly bored The floor is with the Prime Minister. December 9, 1992. The separation is official. This is Prime Minister John Major It is announced by Buckingham Palace the prince and princess of wales His Majesty and His Royal Highness hope in the private life of the prince For Diana, that of a liberated life on which When the princess She told me we were gonna start We had a big map of the world and she started to sting where she should She said to me: &quot;I will become I'll go where I'm needed.&quot; It was his new life. Go where she wanted to go. After their separation, Charles and Diana through the media. In June 94, the prince took the plunge. He recognizes in front of 10 million The following year, Diana goes up a notch. She talks at length about the sound problems on the BBC. In front of 15 million viewers, It involves the royal family, and questions the ability Unheard of in Britain. It's time to put On August 28, 1996, You measure what it means to the court The future head of the Anglican Church. For Diana, at 35, it's time to enjoy A freedom that will cost him dearly. January 13, 1997. It's a huge privilege for me to support the Red Cross, and his campaign to banish, once The blooming princess, while remaining master throws headlong into who are most dear to him. We had seen him support AIDS patients. Diana engages now that of the fight against I remember a time in the hospital when lying in a bed. We could see that she Diana sat down. She held his hand After the departure of the princess, &quot;Is it an angel And to show the one that is still officially becomes an ambassador for the Halo Trust. Organization, most radical in opposition What to exasperate the industrialists but also the British government. Were you surprised by the political scandal I find this unimportant, I am a humanitarian figure, What does Diana care, Everyone must It's hard to believe, all those years she was she had no money. She had nothing that belonged to her. She only had what he The day the divorce was pronounced, she came in with a piece of paper &quot;Now, June 3, 1997, as if to make a new skin, the charity sale of 79 of 79 dress of what will now be 85,000,100,000... I knew she was going to say it. July 11, 1997, we discover it on vacation like a movie star might be, in the sumptuous domain of Mohamed Al-Fayed, She was excited because she The princess had her sons alone only two And it was the perfect opportunity to be To welcome as it should Mohamed Al-Fayed did not For the occasion he bought Incredible mix of genres, disapproved of by the queen. Because Mohamed Al-Fayed, never managed to be accepted He is, however, the owner a real institution long time official supplier But England don't to grant him because he is suspected of having to buy Harrods. Will Diana at least hide by the presence on the Cote d'Azur Not really. No way. The princess told me that she She said : &quot;Look at the pictures in the magazines, I will wear the same swimsuit They will always have the same photo.&quot; It was pretty clever actually. The Princess of Wales arranges happy, carefree and beautiful. They need her. She needs them. It is true that at the same time, Prince Charles hosts a reception, for the 50th birthday of his mistress The war of images continues. A few days later Mohamed Al-Fayed's son We call him Dodi. He is six years older than Diana. He is a film producer He's mostly a man Diana and Dodi had already like here in 1988, They still only greeted each other Just a few days are enough between the two personalities Is this the start of a serious relationship? Or would it be just a little revenge Because it is rumored that the princess seeks a certain Hasnat Kahn, Pakistani doctor with whom she and who has just left her. Princess Diana has just arrived in Bosnia against anti-personnel mines. August 8, 1997, Princess Diana is under fire Indeed, parenthesis, she goes to Bosnia. The goal: Denounce again, always But it's not really the pictures For them there is much more money crisp pictures 3 million francs, it is at this price that will be torn off A planetary scoop. For the first time since Charles, Diana is photographed The Kiss, the kiss, is displayed in one It was manipulation. It was made from scratch She knew she was going to be taken. She asked me afterwards: I answered : She insisted: &quot;Yes, it's in one of all the newspapers.&quot; &quot;Good.&quot; She answered me. At Buckingham, we are looking The photo doesn't even appear in the review of Nevertheless, the damage is done. What exasperates the queen is the and his lack of discretion. The Princess of Wales as if she were looking Admittedly, she had hidden her with Hasnat Khan but with Dodi Al-Fayed, If it materialized, this adventure Imagine the situation, the mother of the future king of England whose family is believed to have soaked In any case, there is one that this idyll This is Mohamed Al-Fayed, Dodi's father. It is moreover he who so that they hold Let's be clear, what future Themselves will seek the answer August 12, 1997, while they are in London, Dodi and Diana travel by helicopter to Purpose of this discreet trip: Visit the Seer a certain Rita Rogers. Diana, for a long time, no longer does However, you will see it, it is a As she focuses on Dodi, Rita is mobbed a black car, a tunnel near the water Elements that send shivers down your spine, in view of the drama that will unfold But this is not the time for presentiments. Diana and Dodi fly away one last time to take advantage of the end of summer. The couple is hardly hiding anymore. The princess liked Dodi because he and few men had been in the past. He was caring, he was a gentleman. He told her she was beautiful, and he liked it because Charles He could be his Aristotle Onassis For Diana, these are the last Saturday August 30, 1:30 p.m. Al-Fayed's private jet leaves Olbia airport in Sardinia, Direction Paris, for what should not be The princess wants to be back for back to school Only, the romantic getaway 4 p.m., after landing the couple arrives at the edge for an old-fashioned visit This king of England, to marry a divorced American, Another scandalous couple Since the death of Wallis, the sumptuous him again. Clumsy maneuver for Al-Fayed invested no less in the restaurant business But in 1997, mad that I still haven't been he decided to put everything up for sale Did Diana plan The couple, in any case, does not linger. 4:34 p.m., Dodi and Diana join The photographers who follow them are already waiting for them So they decide to sneak The day started at dawn. It's time for the couple to take reserved for the Al-Fayed family. 1 hour later Dodi leaves the palace to on the other side of Place Vendome, Place, that the photographers So he lets Diana indulge call to go Is it, as will often be said, Diana's relatives We had a joke between us because he a necklace, a bracelet and a watch. And I said, &quot;You know what's going on And she said to me: &quot;If he could. And if you &quot;What would I do ?&quot; I told her: &quot;You just have to wear it 7 p.m., the couple leave the Ritz at the corner of the Champs-Elysees A large ten piece, which serves as a base Dodi and Diana planned to have dinner So they came here But the presence become invasive and bring them Giving up their dinner, they make the choice 9:53 p.m., Diana and Dodi return to Place Vendome. Photographers are tenacious and they form If Diana seems to take her side, it must be said that she is very used to it. Dodi, he is angry, photo hunters. 9:54 p.m. the couple enters the Espadon, To come out Because even there, Dodi and Diana So it's finally in their sequel It was then that Henri Paul, the chef He was no longer on duty, but he While waiting for further events, Has he been drinking? Meanwhile, a host of more Onlookers and photographers wait feverishly Something to annoy Dodi a little more. He then decides again He wants to quietly leave the Ritz, and that's why, Dodi would like to leave as soon as possible to spend the night there. Tell yourself he's not used to it and that he is obsessed with his safety. more intimate than the Ritz. To lure impatient photographers, in front of the Palace for long hours, he comes up with a little scheme. His usual car, accompanied will ostensibly leave the Ritz. Meanwhile, he will slip out of the annex exit This second car who is her trusted man The least we can say, is that this strategy Basic safety rules The paparazzi waiting in the square, And above all, the exit via rue Cambon Moreover, some are there In case. But what do you want his plan is carried out. 12:12 a.m., security cameras above the entrance film Diana, Dodi, Trevor Rees-Jones, and Henri-Paul who are waiting for their These are the last Thirteen short minutes before the tragedy. In front of the hotel, the decoy is in place. 12:19 a.m., the Mercedes arrives at rue Cambon. The four passengers Are Dodi and Diana thinking right now Probably not. The car rushes towards followed by some photographers on motorbikes who They are there, already, brushing against the doors. At Concord, Henri-Paul takes off with a bang, and in order to be able to drive fast, Eric Falandry then borrowed He kept memories memories he agreed to entrust to us. I was on the descent I remember it was a white 406. He sticks my car, I see it's a black Mercedes I notice a woman sitting who turns his head looking at me. 00:23, the car begins the descent Full speed. It was there that suddenly Henri-Paul The car hits The driver accelerates even more, Too late, the car crashes It's 12:25 a.m. In the tunnel, And below I see the Mercedes Headlights on. Under the force of the impact, and finds himself immobilized in the opposite direction. On the other side of the tunnel, an SOS car Doctor Frederic Mailliez descends from it. He is the very first person Obviously, there are already two passengers who who no longer breathe It's the driver and the rear passenger. Only Diana and the bodyguard I see the first person, hand on the dashboard The young woman was sitting or squatting on She had no lesions She seemed lifeless and when she opened her eyes. I remember. I have this vision that At least she's alive. Quite quickly from onlookers who had been left behind a little before There were flashes crackling In no way did they bother me to wear Some were shouting: I didn't know who it was. 12:40 a.m., first aid arrives on the Meanwhile, the news spreads The prefect of police, called on the spot, Jean-Pierre Chevenement. This informs the ambassador Michael Jay. He is the one who represents the authorities For us, he accepted for the first It was a total surprise. This phone call We didn't know she was in Paris. It was one of those moments in a life, or something you're not And you do your best This is the Salpetriere Hospital In other words, the best specialists This is where the ambulance is headed Before his arrival, everything is implemented Mission entrusted to the policeman My mission rests with one thing, Diana. That is to say that three of my men and they just ask me and I am told: All he was afraid of, It wasn't that one incumbent upon his life, it was mostly the stolen photo. Quickly, what looks like is set up in the hospital. When we arrived at the hospital, we were but nobody knew We were welcomed by Jean-Pierre where we could start phoning to inform the Prince and the Prime Minister 1h45, the ambulance, arrives on the Austerlitz bridge, What shocks me, She doesn't even walk. She goes a few meters, she stops, It takes more than 20 minutes to arrive. But in fact, what I learn later, it is because the heart stops. And it restarts every time. 2h12, Nothing filters from the state of health who is urgently sent to the block. Time now seems suspended. First we see a stretcher coming out but it's the bodyguard who comes out He really has, at the facial level, everything was broken. We think it's her. No, not at all, she is always Around 4 a.m., a little before, I see the doctors And there, immediately, It's 4am. The Princess of Wales has just died. Tonight the Princess of Wales from a traffic accident An emergency thoracotomy put of the left pulmonary vein. Despite the closure of this wound, and cardiac massage no circulatory efficiency and death was pronounced at 4 a.m. It was impossible not to be moved. It was an extraordinarily moment Tonight's accident The death of the Princess of Wales and deep sorrow. The Princess of Wales was popular, magnetic, that I realized that the news totally unpredictable reactions Meanwhile, Diana's body vigil by Daniel Bourdon. When I get in the elevator, I take a little space and we see a part of his leg appear. It's impressive to see And I immediately put the sheet back on. And with the nurse, to have Diana there, dead. It was really too bad. Hello, the information this morning and a very strong emotion. As Paris wakes up, Only a few officials are allowed to go to the bedside The windows were open, there was a fan in the room, and the princess I got closer and her eyelashes move I looked at him and said to him: &quot;Come on, open your eyes. Open your eyes.&quot; I suddenly realized So I remembered something She told me one day that had been to accompany She held his hand, And she said to me: &quot;Do you know Your spirit escapes from your body, but there is a moment left So I knew she was there, And that's where I left At the same time, in front of the hospital, a crowd of anonymous people makes But the emotion does not take long to give way to on the causes of the tragedy. It's easy to imagine the embarrassment faced with the sudden disappearance, of a personality Certainly Diana was but she remained in title The tragedy happened For the French authorities, we are at the file is thorny, it must be dealt with As for the British authorities, Diana's death raises serious questions. You may remember the movie The He recounts the extraordinary showdown, between Queen Elizabeth about the attitude to adopt Whether or not to organize I believe it is no exaggeration to say that, for a few days at least the english monarchy In the early morning of August 31, popular emotion in France, in the commonwealth is almost unprecedented. Everyone remembers where they were on TV or radio. And the effect it had. It was a surprise. Tony Blair will say: &quot;People everywhere She was the people's princess.&quot; Little people is disinherited, A paradox when we know what life it But the emotion is mixed with anger. A few hours after the tragedy, the clean designates those This is not the time for accusations, I would say however that I always But even I didn't think she so direct in his death. It seems to me that all the owners of the press, who have paid for photographs, who have risk everything for an image of Diana, Guilty the photographers, but of what? what really happened In Paris, the highly explosive investigation, opened immediately, She was handed over to the crime squad Apparently, it's a road accident. It's not quite for the crime Especially with regard to personality it's going to be an event and do a lot of work. This is Jean-Claude Mules, Chief Procedural Officer, Considering the pressure that was on us, this enormous pressure. We tried to eliminate all and others that have existed. And God knows if there were. From all sides, And they had to be deflated. They had to be eliminated one by one. one spends one's time demonstrating that there is Why did the driver suddenly Did he try to avoid an obstacle? Was he bothered by photographers? From 12:40 a.m. on August 31, 6 of them were taken into custody. The van had just left the Seine, when Pierre Roussel, arrived on the scene It is interesting to note the sociology arrested by the police. And among them, He will say : There is a young man to speak in English to the princess There are others who are In fact, we realize because the profile 1, they had to say what their role was, did they really have Second, what was their role upon arrival? And then thirdly, what about photos. There was no question of letting go, like this worldwide pictures, which are of the greatest intimacy. And for good reason. The photos are seized and the testimonials Almost immediately, other leads emerge. Some claim that the Mercedes, passed a car Others mention Only scientific analysis reveals traces of white paint. They come from a Fiat Uno. The Mercedes would have hit him Over the days, this Fiat Uno will because neither she nor her driver A witness recounted because he, this witness, and the fiat Uno was coming out of the tunnel who was driving very slowly with a guy as paralyzed. This man there, if he had been arrested, Identified and arrested, would have become, in the eyes of the general public When he was maybe only one He must have had a monstrous fear 1, he is a gentleman who should not So he had no interest Maybe someone in a situation maybe someone wanted. Another track focuses on the whose autopsy is being performed According to the results of the analysis Already someone who drank something, there is a reaction in the blood, it's not someone who staggers, besides the car was tracing straight The thing that's a little more awkward, that in the analyzes there are traces finally a product like this. Tranquilizers associated with alcohol, Henri-Paul would therefore be Problem, his parents and his employer, wholeheartedly refutes his analyses. Dodi's father has another theory. The couple, he says, were murdered No question for the monarchy live with a Muslim Egyptian. Nevertheless, the French investigation concludes 100 km/h. At the alleged clash but also to Henri-Paul's state of drunkenness, reaching its climax. There is a convergence that has taken place and which led to the tragedy. Do the photographers The answer is clearly yes. Are the photographers The answer is clearly no. Photographers will be cleared, outdistanced by the Mercedes at the level they couldn't be Nevertheless, the collective attitude of those Of those who do In 1997, this drama is an electric shock People press readers, publishers, photographers, advertisers. And at that moment, &quot;Never again !&quot; When I see what the celebrity press is photography which is reserved for son of Diana, When I see today what a race is behind Rihanna, behind Beyonce, do i have the feeling that No. Despite the findings of the investigation, In the eyes of the public, the mere fact that we implied that there was, in a way And it completely distorted the approach Our fairy tale princess never dies under a tunnel on a Saturday night. This is one of the reasons why so many People couldn't associate the image in such a banal way It was too hard to accept The English, in shock, wonder: During the few days in Balmoral, Scotland, A deafening silence compared It will take five days She then spoke on television, extremely rare thing in front What I'm telling you today and as a grandmother, First I want to pay tribute He was a human being In the good times she never lost her ability nor to inspire others The next day, Saturday September 6, 3 million people, in London, follow the funeral Hundreds of millions are The whole world, I feel, and bad luck at that time. I believe that we have, during a common emotion. It was an incredible moment The most watched event in history. But who was this woman? Finally, very few people And how she was far from the crowd, the princess of wales in the middle of a lake at Althorp, in the property of the Spencers, I mentioned the suspicions that weighed But let's say it, no element support the various theses What is certain is that gathered against him many enemies, and that even if it is not some, on learning it, and rub their hands.