-- Few writers have more vividly or acurately 1947, on the windswept Scottish island of most important and prophetic books of the Nineteen Eighty-Four... TELEPHONE RINGS Errr, Hello? -- Ooh, hey. What you up to? -- Just making a video about how George Orwell in which we live. -- Yeah, like, how? -- Well, you know, webcams... they're pretty you know. Ooh, and apparently I'm not even -- Whoah, okay... maybe you don't do that. any book... and leave the Orwell video up -- What? -- No, no, I've got this... promise... promise. -- Can I at least tell them about today's -- Well, how about, like, halfway through -- Silenced by the Thought Police yet again. -- Fantastic. Sorry about that. There is a called On Free Thought and Speech in London.[1] on the promotional tour for his first mass-market invited, not for the first time, to the BBC's of the station's television and radio news was greeted by a statue of the English novelist, Orwell. The statue itself had been installed in 2017, resisted the proposal given that, despite the Second World War, Orwell could also be discourse. The statue consists of an enlarged guy--and stands alongside a quote taken from preface to his novella Animal Farm which reads the right to tell people what they do not Given Peterson's perception of himself time of writing, having a book on the New able to move for invitations to interview--it's this quote. And, perhaps further ironically a videographer from his publisher, Penguin thoughts. Atop a montage of London landmarks in summer, a fetishised vision of England as a source of global turmoil. Eventually, however, he in the statue behind him. With a nod to that right to tell people what they do not want 'one of the things that's part of the great in particular have the freedom to say what the journalists--honest and on track. And of the idea that no one is to be oppressed that at our complete peril'. Peterson goes on to describe Orwell, presumably have found common ground on such matters, the 20th century'. Now, my initial goal for today's video was Orwell, and his work, as rhetorical ammunition on Jordan Peterson was, for the most part, of a conservative Orwell-botherer to centre work, however, it became clear that his stated an opportunity to critique the lazy, surface-level by the political right; it is also highly much of Peterson's own work. While I do get right about Orwell and what they miss, fondness for Orwell might reveal about the own attempts to unravel the complexities of Allusions to Orwell's work, particular his Nineteen Eighty-Four, are frequently thrown it's not hard to see why. Both depict communist of an insurgent working class dashed on the In Animal Farm, the pigs who lead the insurrection his place as unaccountable rulers. In Nineteen establishment of a regime which seeks to control means to limit not only the actions of those changes in the language, even what it is possible Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four are also right due to their sheer cultural ubiquity. of the most widely read books in the world'. "thought police", "thoughtcrime", become commonly-used terms. And, this popularity The prevalence of Nineteen Eighty-Four is and a powerful piece of political writing words, 'a sort of ideological super-weapon in 1949, one of the first acts of its American the FBI suggesting that 'we hope you might to the attention of the American public--and The FBI never officially endorsed the book. in school systems across the capitalist West, of undulating tensions between the United Gleason and Martha C. Nussbaum, 'one of Now, Nineteen Eighty-Four is certainly a defiant and repression which were defining features see shortly, the problem lies in the popular manner in which a residual, Cold War, "us like Peterson, view it as an implicit celebration the countries which were opposed to the Soviet Eighty-Four occupies a strange cultural position was read by a whole generation and in which perceptions of what was at stake in the Cold All of this brings us back to Jordan Peterson. place in Peterson's heart. On his website, everyone should read' and two texts of Orwell's and an earlier piece of longform journalism understand Peterson's affection for Orwell, which Peterson is haunted by the Cold War that, during the 1980s, he was 'tormented It gave me nightmares. It drove me into the This was likely an experience shared by many. this obsession never seems to have faded. to it, it's worth remembering that 12 Rules on a Quora post designed to be sold in airports can only get three pages in before he's camps. In fact, despite naming his daughter after to the end of the Soviet Union, one gets the one's told him that the Cold War is over. the Japanese soldier who, living in hiding believed himself to be fighting the Second present in the apocalyptic style of Peterson's and fear of the collective and the manner the bed", parsing everyone he disagrees but as akin to a foreign agent working to We have, then, one writer, Orwell, whose work and what was at stake in the battle between for whom a Cold War understanding of the world--partly marks his thinking. Yet, as I've hinted, of the Soviet Union or as a celebration of elements of the text. Before we discuss Peterson develop a more contextualised and more complex do with Nineteen Eighty-Four and his work A key thing to bear in mind about George Orwell looking for politics but, rather, partly due to the era in which he lived, someone for gradually became impossible. In an essay titled end of his life, Orwell posited that 'in or merely descriptive books, and might have Unfortunately for him (and pretty much everyone a peaceful one, instead being characterised Born in 1903 to a relatively well-off family, shaped Orwell's political outlook. The first Officer in Burma (now Myanmar), which was as Maung Htin Aung writes, 'an efficient with a schoolboy by beating him with a stick, thing' which oppressed the colonised whilst second formative set of experiences were his curious to find out what life was like for to live amongst the urban poor of Paris and the North of England. All of these experiences Yet, more than this, they also pushed him and the inequitable distribution of wealth The defining experience of Orwell's life, his wife, Eileen, he travelled to Spain to See, earlier that year, the people of Spain of socialist, communist and republican (here right-wing generals led by Francisco Franco Italy launched a military uprising. A bloody countries ignored calls to support the Spanish more than 40,000 foreign volunteers travelled Many of the foreign volunteers who travelled and anarchists. Orwell, by contrast, was fairly to Wigan Pier, he had launched a pretty uncompromising on socialists who he saw as an elitist bunch, of injustice and empathy. Jordan Peterson his talks. In fact, Orwell's previous attacks to him being denied permission to join the he instead joined a militia run by the Trotskyist Reflecting on his arrival in Barcelona in wrote that 'when one came straight from startling and overwhelming. It was the first the working class was in the saddle'. The near-classless society of Barcelona during aside some of his more contrarian tendencies On his return to England, he wrote in a letter things and at last really believe in Socialism, Yet, at the same time, Orwell's experiences the authoritarianism of the Soviet Union. fight against the Fascist insurrection came to anarchists, Trotskyists and others who denounced and ultimately arrested en masse. purges, having returned home after Orwell Nevertheless, he returned to England as both of the Soviet regime. It's this perspective, of a belief in socialism which occurred under Stalin, which Orwell Eighty-Four. Both are, yes, stories of revolutions to gain power, but in many ways mourn for famously put it, 'every line of serious written, directly or indirectly, against totalitarianism What I primarily want to draw out in this English (or, more broadly, given Peterson's which are contained within Nineteen Eighty-Four. close shave with Stalinist forces in Spain, censorship and propaganda after he returned context, Jordan Peterson standing in front his work as a vindication of "Western" I won't bore you with too much of a re-cap In short, the novel centres on Winston Smith, writing, was an imaginary, future version UK has been subsumed by the multi-continental state. Under the leadership of the enigmatic watch on its citizens through the installation public spaces. The secretive "Thought Police" The party's primary source of control, however, of propaganda and the censorship of anything the party. The protagonist, Winston Smith, he works in the "Ministry of Truth" falsifying position changes on any given topic--from citizen to which of the world's other superpowers job is to edit newspaper clippings and the it would be unable to prove that things had It's self-evident that the world of Nineteen approximation of what life was like in the for Joseph Stalin, the official ideology of are regularly "disappeared", either being Russia is not the novel's only focus. For in his dystopian vision of the future a list as the use of the 24-hour clock, the selling and women not wearing enough make-up. More of what Orwell saw as the authoritarian activities Second World War. For, whilst Orwell was, like other anti-Stalinists, during his time in Spain, details of these whilst in England, and at the hands of the experiences of both surveillance and censorship. on the right side of the UK's stringent landed him on more active watchlists. Just in 1939, for example, he was visited by two a series of supposedly "obscene" books had found out about his purchases by intercepting in his diary that 'it appears that the opening parties is now so normal as to excite little Orwell wouldn't have know that MI5 had been his attendance at Communist Party meetings had made him an object of suspicion. He did, of censorship. Namely, Animal Farm's road in its path by both Russian influence and existing publisher, Victor Gollancz, felt rejected from Faber &amp; Faber by T.S. Eliot was initially accepted by Jonathan Cape but of warning from the UK Ministry of Information the person who is generally agreed to have Soviet spy). Nevertheless, the most pressing influence given the clip of Jordan Peterson we began working at the BBC during the Second World as a colonial cop, Orwell was recruited to in India. His time was split between producing and news broadcasts. As C. Fleay and M. L. to India and elsewhere in which Orwell took to an overall propaganda effort'. Orwell in a letter to a friend that he hoped to have than it might otherwise have been', he could be outright falsehoods if it served the war 'I am regularly alleging in all my newsletters I don't believe this to be so'. He also brought happiness and freedom to the people that the opposite was true. Orwell found ways to justify his role as a of [broadcasting] &amp; in general letting oneself of little value to argue [about] it, it is it more important to down the Nazis first'. being inside the propaganda factory deeply Smith's day-to-day existence at the Ministry with Orwell's time at the BBC and his wife, Department of the Ministry of Information in the Soviet Union; a country which Orwell Peterson (and other conservatives who draw therefore right that he was a committed opponent comments outside the BBC show, they often celebrate the institutions and cultural norms is far from the case. Whilst Orwell was very he also recognised that, as he wrote in 1946, and hence freedom of thought, are the press For Peterson to stand beside a statue of Orwell part of the great English journalistic tradition freedom to say what they want' is, frankly, involved him frequently not being able to publishers didn't agree with them or, whilst sense, Nineteen Eighty-Four is very much a as much to say about censorship, surveillance in the Soviet Union. In truth, Orwell was a hugely frustrating, unlikely that anyone could read his body of with and other things they would deeply contest. that the approach favoured by Peterson and their positions whilst flat-out ignoring anything I want to close out this video by flipping choice or otherwise) only have a limited understanding in particular) might provide a useful lens Love him or loathe him, Jordan Peterson is lectures or interviews, he covers an abundance of success) on a wide range of fields. What about what he sees as the decline of "Western culture" is currently in crisis which provides He writes in 12 Rules for Life that 'in tradition-, religion- and even nation-centred group conflict. But we are increasingly falling and that is no improvement at all'. As a Peterson clearly sees his writing and lectures Yet, what is "Western culture"? The phrase of us have a vague idea of what someone is find is that, as soon as we try to define proves to be quite a hazy concept. Now, there's not the time to fully explore or critiques of it here (although, if you'd me know in the comments). Suffice it to say "Western culture" (and, by extension, relies upon three presuppositions: firstly, label to exhibits some degree of homogeneity; historical continuity to that culture prior thirdly, that this culture is in some way Now, like many others who use the term, Peterson definition of what he believes "Western where its geographical limits might lie, who is clear on what its substance is. In one he argues that 'the proposition that underlies morality [...] predicated on the idea of God'. to refer to places and people that have been Now, although I'm perhaps being generous is actually far more specific than many other generally try to draw a continuous line starting colonial nations of Europe and ending in the to NATO' as David Gress titled his 1998 christianity fails to truly address those christians have spent as much of history tearing body of Christ and, despite sharing a sacred different modes of morality and being from societies influenced by christianity have the religion has been integrated into feudalism, In fact, making the case for such homogeneity details to such an extent that it would be For, at that point, how distinct is christianity other belief system for that matter? In truth, the idea of "Western culture" instead by what it is not. As Kwame Anthony to name a heritage and object of study, doesn't era of imperialism'. "The West", at the imperialist nations of Europe and the began to disintegrate in the middle of the used to distinguish between the capitalist influence. Since the fall of the USSR, however, the notion to cohere. For a brief period, militant Islamists define "the West" against; although that If, as Peterson argues, "Western culture" suggest it is because it lacks an "other" sabre-rattling against China or Russia perhaps geopolitical perception of the world, but pervasiveness of those previous cultural imaginaries. It's no surprise that Peterson finds this is he obsessed with the Cold War, but his order and chaos, masculine and feminine, society take on meaning through a conceptual opposition of study which essentially lacks any real return to the ghost of the Soviet Union as is not; or, otherwise, to paint those with should look like--the "postmodern neomarxists" Nineteen Eighty-Four perhaps provides an interesting world-building is that Oceania is constantly Eurasia and Eastasia. The war itself only of territory, yet they serve a useful political and shared commitment to fighting the war about Oceania itself. In fact, with the ideals the war is the only thing that really orients culture" which Peterson trades off is similar. it lacks any real substance. If "Western because, like the weird conglomeration of Eighty-Four, it's because it never really Thank you so much for watching this video. found it interesting or enjoyable in any way, would consider sharing it with a friend (or might also get something out of it. Thank Sindre Nilsen, Kaya Lau, David Brothers, Max Gordon, Diccon Spain, Greg Miller, Bill Mitchell, Kumar, Collin York, Anil and Temo Keshelas Patreon. If you'd like to join them in getting to them and more, then you can find out how once again for watching and have a great week!