This is a story about the American dream. No The country was coming into its own, and fulfilling the dream was showing its cracks. And the decade that One book would serve as a prophetic warning to of hope about the American ideal. Automobiles, movies, and radio, made our lives bigger. F Scott Fitzgerald and his wife Zelda, became glamorous of the Roaring 20s. Fitzgerald was already a novels under his belt. The Great Gatsby would Except it was a flop. The sales were terrible, tragedy lurked on the horizon, and like the stock market crash F Scott Fitzgerald was born in 1896, in the midwest; when that was still looked down on by the waspish Scott was always sensitive about his background. and at the Ivy league Princeton University, he was gave him access to an aristocratic lifestyle... Princeton was the ultimate representation of much wanted to belong to that. He became fixated of his studies. He thrived as a member of a drama and poems were often published published in the socialite Ginevra King, while at Princeton. He always were very Progressive and modern. But she spurned don't marry Poor Boys&quot;. A heartbroken Fitzgerald year of college, and he joined the army in the hope Fitzgerald to fall for another Golden Girl - Zelda was an officer stationed in Alabama. Scott proposed marry him until he was financially successful. His of American Youth at the dawn of the Jazz Age author was an overnight success. He and Zelda married that Jay Gatsby's story mirrors Fitzgerald's. girl and strives to succeed Scholars debate over whether Daisy in But the truth is probably both. The two Fitzgerald because he didn't have the capital to first novel became an immediate bestseller. This and short stories. Ultimately the golden girl the American dream. It is Young and Beautiful but Nick Carraway, is the book's narrator. Jay is the elusive dream girl. Tom Buchanan is her Jordan Baker a somewhat corrupt golfer who love interest. Myrtle Wilson is Tom's And George Wilson is her cuckolded husband Jay Gatsby is seemingly the embodiment of the He is a man from a humble background in Louisville Kentucky, where (like Fitzgerald himself), Jay is sent to war and Daisy promises to wait, but from a solid aristocratic family. Five years later and has bought an ostentatious Hotel DeVille-style And in an age of jazz and prohibition, throws lavish the social divide, and back into his world. Whether major plotline, and we are led to believe that But in the end, we all know that Daisy will never version of the American dream. As far as Tom Fitzgerald began drafting The Great Gatsby A peninsula that he calls &quot;West Egg&quot; in the book. people from New York, the newspaper owners and Then across from West Egg, separated here we find the establishment; Old money, the Buchanan and his wife Daisy, who live in a has a green light on it, one of the most seen flickering across the bay from Gatsby's as a metaphor for the class divisions between West Egg's Gatsby is a Short's novel - less than 50,000 Fitzgerald, set out to show the novelist, could write a work of art. he told his editor in the summer of 1922. We often talk of Fitzgerald's &quot;poetic language&quot;, and with Gatsby, We can see the influence of John Keats He freely admitted in a letter to his daughter, that he had adapted is adapted by Fitzgerald as... The title of his novel, &quot;Tender is the Night&quot; is also a line from the although there are the famous phrases that everyone knows. Then we have the description of a woman, as... or the movie star... While Fitzgerald was writing Gatsby, And it is poetry that infuses Gatsby, that pushes Fitzgerald knew how to infuse colour into sofa in white, with its connotations of Purity and shirt and gold tie, colour dominates the page. the black tears of Daisy, gold turkeys yellow cocktail And shirts with stripes and Scrolls and and faint orange, with monograms of Indian blue. credentials, the yellow of Gatsby's Rolls-Royce destructive nature - as when it later kills Myrtle. the blue eyes of Dr TJ Eckelberg, wine coloured rugs Gatsby's relationship with time, He wants to erase five years, from not only The novel has over 450 words connected with time - In just the first few pages of chapter five, we have: moment, many hours, morning, 11 o'clock and then, when Gatsby reconnects with Daisy for the The suggestion is that unlike the physical The main action of the book takes place But the Midwest where Fitzgerald was book, and act as a moral compass. The Midwest is symbolises; Starting over, the pioneering Spirit, The East infects them all, with its materialism At the novel's end the &quot;careless people', Tom While Nick, disgusted with the soulless The green light at the end of Daisy's dock may be It has been seen to simultaneously symbolise At the end of the first chapter, Nick first sees Gatsby later Nick tragically realises... To many the green light symbolises the to see through the mist of the bay. To others it also obscured by Mists. Green is a symbol of Hope, But what it may suggest is that the American dream's Fitzgerald felt that the American dream Baseball, America's pastime, and the purest of games, of 1919, a real life Scandal mentioned in the of America. If baseball is corrupt then we are is shown to be superficial and materialistic as his extensive collection of English shirts. Gatsby himself is a contradiction of the complicated by the fact that he made his money He is a romantic lead, but is a flashy and vulgar for Myrtle Wilson's death - is ambiguous Actress: &quot;He's going to say that he was Daisy is no better in the end. death, and her behaviour during and after the fatal Daisy really treats Gatsby no differently She never calls him, and doesn't Daisy sheds tears for shirts, but none for Gatsby. and it's clear that the American dream only who had it from day one, who were born into it. An iconic symbol in the book are billboard. A recurring motif which repeated Wilson, Michael assured him. The eyes oversee much of the drama in the novel, Except, they are a faulted symbol, tied more to sense of morality. Fitzgerald is clear, what been corrupted. Money is now our God, and it as Tom, he doesn't have the right &quot;currency&quot;. Fitzgerald captured the hopes and promises of he was right, and less than 5 years after Gatsby was published, He once said: Fitzgerald drank himself to death, fire broke out in her Asylum. Fitzgerald's final seven copies sold in the first half of 1940. Today, The Great Gatsby has sold over 30 when he died, he KNEW that it was his greatest Despite his fear that America is lost,