Hey there guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we're plate heat exchangers and PHE's, PHX's, or sometimes just HX or HEX. Now, plate heat exchangers they are used extensively in building services and manufacturing. The reason they are popular is because they are very compact, they're easy to service, they need very low maintenance as well. Their purpose is to from one fluid in one system to another without the two fluids mixing together. For example, in building to transfer heat from a primary over to a separate secondary loop or maybe in a district heating network. Or in manufacturing you oil and use water to cool you don't want to mix the Now, we have pulled one of We're gonna have a look at So we've got the end plates and these are made from usually a mild steel and they're very strong, they're there to hold everything together. Then we've got the nuts, these up onto the tightening bolts. The tightening bolts, they there and they'll run heat exchanger and the bolts will compress all the plates gaskets against the plates to make the heat exchanger completely And then wedged in between where the heat transfer got the gaskets which sit in between the plates and that's Larger heat exchangers will at the top and the bottom that the case and the there and there's various either they twist these twist off but there's a where these would just drop these would just slide in and out. And you can see a real plate heat exchanger plate there on the screen. Now, these are typically made from steel or titanium and you can pattern grooved into them These patterns are gonna obviously they're incredibly gonna increase the heat as well as creating a very so it's not smooth, all these and come out very Now between the plates just this rubber gasket to the face of the plate gasket is to ensure a tight The gasket also allows or prevents the flow of fluid into the sheet. You can see here, so this rubber seal coming across so that no fluid in this as well as this side, whereas so the fluid if it entered down and enter into this one here because there isn't anything there. Same as this one, the fluid travel up and then into this Now, you'll probably notice they're actually, they extend That's for a few reasons, to fit all these plates the installation or during this gives you the ability to extend the plate heat exchanger in is actually from a district moment the building's only expecting to double the building size. So they've allowed extra bolt means that the plates heat exchanger can grow with the demand. Now, there's a couple of ways that the plate heat exchanger can be piped up. This is the most common that we're gonna be looking at today. That is where the inlets on the front plate so flow through their channels way back to the front plate. The other version is where the fluids, one of the fluids enters passes through there and then exit through the one of the fluids will Now, this version here, the common version and that to alter the pipework if plate heat exchanger in the future, whereas, with the second that's connected would have to fit depending on how far So it's not really so practical, that is why this one is far more common. And you can just see in that is exactly what's happening. So the flow return are happening So how does it work? Well, we've already seen of the seal then the fluid So if we stack a number of plates together then you'll see it forms this channel, this pipe like feature flowing And then we can add the there and we get these channels where the water or the fluid, whatever through certain plates and it can't flow through other plates. And let's just see an example of how this would work practically. So if we opened up the now you can see here that differently on the alternating plates there for the heat exchange. So this one here you can would not be able to pass one it would so it just alternates, vice versa all the way through. And so if we pass one fluid through there you can see it entering passing all the way through, there's a seal there, it oh there's no seal there so can't go into this hole but you can into this one because there is no seal and so all these will pass through, collect up and make its way back out. Now, the same thing is gonna be happening with the other fluid So you can see here we're So this one is entering coming along, it's getting to the plates, some of them it can others it cannot leave that it will just pass through all the way until it creates that loop and exits. So if we mix these two fluids is the cold fluid is going to enter, pass through and then on is the hot fluid so of that heat away so the cold fluid will warm up and that will leave as a much warmer fluid and the hot fluid that comes in is going to cool down give up some of its heat into will leave as a much more cooler fluid. So if we just look at how this is working, a few plates here and hot channel and another cold channel. Now, if we let the hot channel there and as that conduct through into the plate so that heat will then pass And if we then pass cold channels and some of which have been heated up, because some of the thermal energy is transferring over into the cold fluid. That's through conduction. And as that happens the cold obviously the hot fluid is So then the heat exchanger out and that means that the is gonna exit warm and the hot And that temperature vary through the heat exchanger, through the fluids which So when you combine all of this together that is how you get the heat transfer occur in the You can also notice that in counter flow and that for the most effectiveness temperature difference, the We'll have a look at what This video is just for you to understand how it's working and why it works. I'll just give you a real world example of a heat exchanger here as well. So this is a German heat right down here but you can provides 1500 kilowatts of transmission area of 29.3 flow rate of 42,000, or It would also handle up to 100 bar on each side of the plates. So you can see these things very efficient and they're Now, if you do have one please also remember to more energy efficient, plastic sheets on the threads to protect them from damage otherwise you won't be able to get these nuts off very easily. Okay, that's it for this video, thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed it and it helped you. Please don't forget to like, subscribe and share and if you have any comments leave them in I'll try to get back to Once again, thank you