On the 25th of May, 1950, at around 6:30pm, streets of Chicago. As it approached a switch in of a worker on the street and plowed through the tram collided with a fully-loaded tanker truck a giant fireball, beginning one of the most deadly In 1950, streetcars were a common sight in new electric trams, which due to their distinctive &quot;Green Hornets&quot;. These vehicles could seat around Each Green Hornet was staffed by two Chicago the vehicle, while a conductor would sit at the queries. To ride, you'd board through a wide door disboard through two narrower doors further Although, like every other tram or streetcar, the always fixed. Streetcars could be moved between using loops situated all over the network. Often routes, for example when there were roadworks On the 25th of May, 1950, flooding was the issue. 63rd Streets had become flooded. Because the motor very low in the chassis, even a relatively City workers were called out to unblock take several hours. In the meantime Chicago Transit Authority employee Charles His job would be to stand beside the switch and would then be required to operate the switch and around. Kleim did his job diligently, waving down The hours dragged on, so that he had turned around that the flood was soon to be cleared. Another doubt relieved Kleim returned to his post, ready At around 6:30pm a trolley approached. Kleim Surprised Kleim moved forward and waved again slow down. Despite Kleim's now-frantic gestures Things happened quickly after that. The streetcar A distinct buzzing sound reported by survivors brake at this point, evidently realizing The streetcar slammed into a gasoline tanker A massive explosion took place, with a window of the streetcar. Fuel gushed pool around the wreck and quickly igniting. On board the Green Hornet, panic took hold as in order to escape the flames. At this point the in saving several lives. Beverly Clark was cinema to catch a movie. Immediately following and then trampled by her fellow passengers as Somehow, she managed to get to her feet and reach Her efforts to force it open were hopeless, but emergency door release. Beverly knew how to find she had pulled it on several previous occasions These &quot;practice runs&quot; almost certainly saved release and the doors sprung open. She spilled incredibly lucky passengers before the spreading Meanwhile, at the rear of the car, a pileup was and so no amount of pushing and kicking by them open. The conductor, a man named William the collision took place. The impact had thrown other passengers. By the time he regained his by the rear doors, attempting to force them back and let the doors open. At the same time He knew full well that they would not open if and he wasn't sure if his cries to stand clear of car was now full of smoke, confusion and noise. miraculously sprang open. Liddell and a small However, the crush around the doors was so The remaining passengers were left with few other Using whatever came to hand several broke windows largely thwarted by metal bars which had been these were &quot;safety bars&quot;, designed to stop Nonetheless a small number of people One passenger, 18 year old Arleen Franzen, narrow gap and escaping onto a nearby green. When happened to have been on the streetcar too, As Arleen watched, her co-worker was overwhelmed Passersby rushed to help those few who could by the spreading flames. By the time firemen there was nobody left alive on board the streetcar firefighters on scene couldn't even determine All in all, 34 people were killed the driver of the streetcar included. 50 Before it could be extinguished, the burning them irreparably and making It was the most deadly and damaging collision ever An investigation was launched into the disaster, The performance of Charles Kleim, the flagman who streetcars to slow down at the turnaround loop, had not been wearing all of his uniform and had used for this task. He had also engaged known as &quot;plugging the switch&quot; - essentially open rather than opening it and closing Kleim's actions were, however, just one aspect of came in for some criticism. The doors that would the fact that there were exit doors on only one door releases had all made escape from the burning the accident. Additionally, it was discovered that speed limits as other road users, and that the 10 minor accidents during his career... but or checked. Finally, the rules concerning the examined. Other cities made deliveries at night, gasoline that could be hauled along certain Following the recommendations of the inquest, some were enforced, and easily accessible emergency streetcars. Bars were removed from some windows, It was recommended that flagmen be given new required to pass a routine medical exam These changes were just some of More might have been done but for the fact that years following the accident Green Hornets began by cheaper and more efficient motor buses. By 1955 With the disappearance of the Green Hornets the the public. Today the Green Hornet Streetcar long history. The intersection where the collision pass through this junction every day inside that they are passing the site of the worst