- Hello, welcome. Hi, I am your interim dean, Jenny Chapman. Welcome to today's Dean Speaker series. I am more than thrilled to introduce our guest, Kara Swisher. I'm kind of a groupie. She's kind of a hero of mine and so I can't believe to come and see us. We're so thrilled. You know, before I do the introduction, let me just tell you from a housekeeping standpoint, our logistics. You have cards on your chairs and you can use those to that you have and then pass them out and we will be picking them up. Sarah and Carrie will be picking them up. When you write your question, and what program you're from 'cause we would like to know that. Okay, so now to the introduction. We all know Kara from her and riveting podcasts. I was just listening to an interview with Pete Buttigieg on On. He's incredibly articulate. You matched his level of And Pivot her former podcast with Berkeley alum and - Current podcast. - I have four a week. - Five when I was doing - Wow! Yeah, the Succession I'm doing one and it's like so I can't even imagine more. Okay, so Pivot is the other one. And then there are more. So Kara was one of the first journalists to recognize the potential of the internet and the power of its rising stars. And so since the 90s, the Rise of Tech through writing the New York Times, the New and many, many more. She's interviewed far more Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos, Sheryl Sandberg, Bob Iger, Mark Zuckerberg, Hillary Clinton. Recently it's earned her a reputation as Silicon Valley's most feared, but also most well-liked journalist, which is a very, very difficult And now she's examining with the same directness and no nonsense approach that Kara has written two previous books, including an account of the and Time Warner called &quot;There Must Be a Pony in Here Somewhere&quot;. Most recently, she published a memoir all about this wild world and what it means for Appropriately it's called Best of all, Kara is actually optimistic about tech's potential. I hope she'll tell us ideally human, not AI, are necessary now to steer So thank you Kara, so Please help me welcome her. (audience applauding) Sorry, I forgot to introduce our esteemed student interviewers. Most important of all, and Ashley Wong who are gonna Thank you both. - I can't even say how honored, but also a little bit scared, of course, we are to interview you. My name's Fernanda. I'm a full-time, MBA student from Brazil, and I previously worked in tech startups transitioning to big tech companies. - I'm Ashley, also a current exploring food innovation and technology and the food systems and We are so excited to have this Kara, which will undoubtedly be very rich given your expertise in - Yeah, everything. I'm good at everything, just so you know. - So segue into our first question. Across your career, you've and to this day are able to from tech, finance, climate change, sustainability. How do you stay up to date and knowledgeable on cross industry trends and emerging topics? How do you choose what projects to pursue and given your wide range of interest? - That's interesting. I didn't win the MacArthur which I think I've been But you know, I'm just an and I think curiosity can I know it sounds kind of glib, but I've always been super curious about whatever I happen to do. And I think one of the is I do have an entrepreneurial nature and an interest in changing and shifting, which is to Silicon Valley in the 1990s and kept me in the I met all the main characters in this when they didn't have any money or when they were in garages. In fact, Google was in a garage and Susan Wojcicki, who tragically at a very young age. And so I'm someone who shifts a lot, very similar to the stuff I cover. And so I think entrepreneurism is that I'm always interested but an interesting thing for me. I'm willing to change And I think, and I move on from things. I think a lot of people or bad marriages or whatever, They stay in them and I just don't. I'm like, time to go and I go. And so I think that's in general in your life. And at the same time, I try really hard to make substantive content, right? I don't, there's so much crap out there. And once someone just came up to me in the plane when I was on my where I live much of the time, I still have a house in San Francisco and they said, thank you so And it was a word that we, Walt Mossberg and I used to describe shitty products . So we called them, craplets, we hate craplets on your phone. We hate craplets journalism. We hate this. And so we, throughout my career, I've tried to make very similar to, you or I think of myself as a maker of things. And so I think that's is making things that are delicious or substantive or nutritious or whatever. I think about that all the time. I think about the product itself. And that does put me in line with people who make great products Like I'm very interested in and it doesn't matter what it is. And so, you know, I just think curiosity and a willingness to change. And the last thing, which is a big theme in I have a very keen sense of mortality and a very close friend who wrote &quot;Operating And one of the lines in her books when she was this friend and she was frittering her away at stupid, some stupid thing that And her friend with cancer who was gonna die very and said, Annie, you don't have that much. You don't have that kind of time. And it took her a moment to realize, of course she didn't either, even though this woman knew her timeframe. Annie was acting like had a limited time. And so my dad died when I was He was 34. And since then I've had a very keen sense of the amount of time we have and stuff like that. So. I don't have time. (audience laughing) - Thank you so much for And you've been really that are traditionally very male dominated all while being an openly gay woman. How has that influenced and how do you navigate the industry? Does it have any influence? You know, it's interesting I think we need to rest that one, 'cause it's like, I'm just gay, that's it. It's sort of kind of obvious but although now straight so it's really hard. Now you're like, it's happening. You know, it is a male dominated, tech has been male dominated. Reporting is not necessarily, but tech reporting certainly was. When I arrived in covering tech, it was all sort of And they're like, oh, Mr. Gates, what a giant head do you have? How do you think of such great things? And I was like, I think this I don't know. I feel like it is. And so I think it was an asset for me to be a little different because I also had a, I think a keen sense, and I think I wrote which was, you know, they go, of the things, one of for the Wall Street covering this beat, was really at its nascent stages, was that they would say Like a lot of the time, like, you know, we're all in this together, but then they would I was like, if we're in it together, why do you have controlling shares? That seems to be, well gimme so I can control it with you. But that was never the case. Or you know, I'm just a simple And they were made of cashmere. And I was like, well that's a $700 hoodie, so you're not a simple person, right? And there was a lot of cosplaying. And so every industry has cosplaying. And so it was really interesting. Or we don't have titles here. That was the one that went on and on in early internet times. But, you know, Jerry Yang and they were always juvenile titles too. I'm like, what are you And so I was really riveted and I think if I had been like them, I wouldn't have noticed And so a lot of my early articles are about pointing these things out. And they were funny. I So it wasn't just mean, they were mean, but it was mean funny. And so I think I think it for people reading about it. And at the same time I that was really, truly exciting. This this new shift in, and I did understand the and I wrote this in the book, everything that could be And I think I got that and accepted it in the way they were perfectly happy to And I was like, I'm but the Gutenberg Bible and you better get the You know what I mean? That kind of thing. And so I had a keen sense they were monks and I was It's like, I don't know. - Like you mentioned, and your fresh perspective success as a journalist and reporter. What else do you think was to build deep relationships and securing their trust and honesty? Do you think that approach - Some of them, some You know, I met a lot of them when they weren't who they are, right? Jeff Bezos was wearing and he didn't have muscles, none. So let's just put that, But you know, they were Elon didn't have hair, now he has hair. You know, they were all different and wasn't as crazy as now. It's beyond crazy now, But they were not who they were. So it's very easy to get, if you know someone at the they would welcome you to talk to them. I mean, Jeff would call me all the time. He'd wanna be written about And so in the power And so, you know, a lot of in what they were doing. And so they wanted to tell And they were not surrounded by enablers. They didn't have immense And when you get immense wealth, you suddenly have a chief of staff or, you know, a chef or a And so they weren't protected in that way. And they wanted to tell you 'cause they were founders. They were almost religious And so I was eager to hear about it. And so that was one thing. The other thing was, I some of them were established It's interesting, I just It's up today, yesterday, no, today or yesterday. Anyway, we did not get along much of me covering him And we ended up doing a He's doing a quite a good series on Netflix about the future. It's very well done, I have to say. And we did this great interview and at the beginning of the interview, he's like, oh, it's you again. Like, and at the end he And I said, &quot;See, I'm not an asshole.&quot; He goes, &quot;Oh, you're still an asshole.&quot; But I'm enjoyed it because on some level, and down all day and And I think they appreciate someone who tells them the truth in an honest way because they're living in And if someone says that's not good, they're not used to it. And some of them welcome like, I'm trying to think Sundar Pichai does, Satya 'cause they're adults. Tim Cook does. He and I had a big argument about, I was visiting him during the iPhone, the recent iPhone event, and he was saying how I was like, that's not so And I go, not so great. Like, I'm sorry, I know it's great, but it isn't. And they appreciate that 'cause And so the adults like it. Elon, for example. The ones who are no, the not the children 'cause children So, I have four children, so - So you've mentioned and also how the landscape of but we see a lot of other changes that have happened over So the rise of social changing how people consuming formation, how is all of that changing and mainly as a journalist? How do you see the for people who want to get into the area? - Right, it's difficult. I mean, I think I recognized it early, which is why I left the mainstream, right? To create entrepreneurial Now everybody's doing it. Like it's, you know, I went to dinner with Casey Newton who does a and I'm the one who urged I also am a shareholder because he had a lot more, And so I think one of the things that Walt and I did very early, Walt Mossberg and I, is we did it initially within the Wall Street Journal. We did a skunk works within create AllThingsD. And because we understood that people were seeing we're gonna And this went back to when I and I was, I started it was called at the time AOL It was a tiny little company. And then now it's again But actually it's got, it's doing okay under the new configuration it's in. But, you know, one of for me was I was, they gave me that beat because I was the young And I went there and you immediately understood If everything could be digitized and everything could go online, information was the very first thing. And I had studied propaganda and information systems at That was my area. And so it This was one of those radio You could see it. You're like, oh, oh. Like, and then you could I downloaded a book and I was like, oh dear, You know, I downloaded a song, I was like, oh, oh, you're gonna And so you could start to see that. And so in journalism, they really didn't, they loved that print newspaper. And I think being younger and being sort of understanding flow was a good thing or And so I would be in meetings where they would go like, I'm like, why? Why do we want that? And young people, well, to read the newspaper? That was their favorite And in the book, I recount, and they're like, how can Like I was the young person But but they're like, how to read the newspaper? And I put my hand up and they're like, okay, Kara like, oh no, what is she gonna say? And I said, you should tape 'cause they're not fucking Otherwise, like, what are you doing? Like, why are you doing in a system that they're not consuming. And it kills trees so bad, bad all around. And they were like, wow, They kept, that was always the way, this is the way we do it. And I said, well, there's And so that kept happening to And I'd write a story, like there, I wrote a story about web van and it, you know, I did the reporting. It was a fucking cluster fuck. Like, I'm sorry. It was like And I kept going, you know, math says this is not going to work. But the idea of it was gonna work. The delivery, the concept was big, but their particular because the way they created It was too early. The It was like all kinds of reasons. And I wrote the story saying, That's what I said. I didn't say it like that 'cause you can't do that although you should be able to. And so they were like, but can you get someone else And I was like, I did the reporting and I declared a cluster fuck. Like this is what it is. And I was like, why should I? I have analyzed the situation, I should be able to tell readers who trust me in my work thing. They wouldn't let me do that. And then they made me put in a sentence that I said I would never let happen when I created a media company, which was the to be sure statement. Have you read that? To be sure, some people say, you know, Elon Musk is a reasonable And I'm like, to be sure that is not true. If you like or don't like him, he's not a reasonable person anymore. So, and let me show you the misinformation he's spewing on a daily basis. He used to be different, And so I didn't wanna write the to be sure statement It just was, it was an that wasn't factual. And so I had the idea who's wonderful, get truthful, not neutral. And I was like, that's what I wanna do. Truthful, you do the and you come to a conclusion. And that's what I created. And that's what people want, I think. As long as it's substantive and factual. - As a quick follow up, is there anything that you see currently in that people just take for granted and also believe that it that you want people to break from? - Well, everything. Like the finance, the economics are crazy. Like that's what we saw early on. And one of the things that and I'm like, the Washington like I saw classified and I went to Don Graham and And he goes, oh, classifieds I'm like, no, no. They're static. They are expensive. Customer The people are mean and they don't work. That's the last one. I was And you're overcharging people. Same thing with movie theaters. They're dirty, they're Oh, please, let's poise Eventually when the consumer has a choice of being at home, they'll go home. And so with with media we were delivering, including entertainment, I like an album, but people It's better to buy or it's in your pocket and it's digital. They just were ignoring people didn't wanna print newspaper. They wanted it online, people did wanted it in different ways, like TikTok or whatever. And this was later. But, and they didn't, the people who made it just And so the costs, at some point were going to hit the revenues. And I just saw that way before the bills. So I created businesses where the revenues and the costs, the costs were always here and the revenues were always here. And if I couldn't bring I would get outta that business. Luckily the conference The way we did AllThingsD Podcasts are very lucrative. Not for everybody, but if you do, I have three employees on We make so much money. It's crazy. And every time the New York you can't make money in podcasting. I'm like, you can't, but I can. Like, and so, you know, and that was another thing when Steve Jobs and I did an interview, He actually kind of named it, he's like, iPod, broadcasting, podcasting. He literally said that on stage like 15 years ago at least or more. And I was like, oh yes. And then when you have and the phone is in place and you have really good hearing, it becomes something a And so I had the conference business, but I was like, oh no, let's that can reach more people. And so, you know, the way it's really bad. The economics are terrible and the audience is I had a meeting with some people at one of the cable networks today, CNN, who I work at, I like a lot. And I think they do a great job. But I was literally like, how in the world are you What are we getting for $20 million 'cause that means you So you know what I mean? Like, are they worth 60 million? Because that's really the number that you have to pay them at. And so I always, you know, whenever I'm pitching I'm like, like with the Vox, I own the IP 'cause I wanna own it. And I'm sick of Rupert Murdoch And so I, we do a revenue split and if we all do well, we all do Well if we don't, we all don't. And that seems to be the And so I think going forward, every media concern has to and have interests that are And that didn't happen before. And so that's, you have to do that. So most media companies and not these big behemoths, the only exceptions the New York Times. But it doesn't really If you actually look at the, it's like a very small amount of revenue. It's a decent amount of revenue, but it's a very, it's not a big profit, but that's what's considered And they do a great job, but it's mostly cooking games And of course the reporters I'm like, well, you over at games like yesterday, like, and say thank you so much for They don't do that. They don't kiss them. I kiss them. I write them - Well, thinking about the consumer, on one hand we're seeing astounding levels of information becoming democratized. On the other hand, we're seeing Deep fakes, privacy concerns. And with this likely reshaping interact with information, how do you think we can build our muscle to become better consumers of information? Or are we doomed? - That's okay. That's the choice. You know, I have to say I'm very heartened by younger people. I think the real problem who are fucking nuts online, right? They really are. Did you see this? I'm like, untrue, untrue. Like, can you do any kind of due diligence on anything you read? My son is like, oh mom, Something just happened. I forget which, anyway, he You know, he goes, mom, he calls me chief. He goes, Chief, everyone Like, everyone know that be sex. It was Pavel Durav at Signal. He's like, oh, that's the sex and weapon and drug buying place. Like they young people So I'm not worried about I'm worried about teens on some level. But I am worried about how And I did a good interview with Barry Diller many years ago, and I think he really nailed it. And he said, you know, they were talking about And he goes, and someone's like, citizen journalism's the best thing. And he goes, yeah, what Would you like that happening? I was like, that's really He was right. And so that, I think and some of it's really interesting, like getting all these from all kinds of people, Media can't get there in that way. And you really do get a I think the is with every malevolent players come in to take advantage of whatever's happening. And we'll repeat lie after lie after lie. And so it get the lies get And therefore it's hard And that's to the advantage I think one of the has not regulated this ever. Like there's, I always, I that Ampy Philip does And the guy, the Trump guy all the laws that are on the social media networks. And at first he had missed, He was talking about Reid Hoffman and he said, Reed Hastings. And I was like, okay, I so let's start there. And I said, it's Reed, it's He goes, oh, did I get it wrong? I go, you didn't don't even They like couldn't be one's tall and skinny, one's shorter and heavier. Like, I don't even know But he then went on about all the laws restricting social media. And so I said, can I And I said, how many laws And he's like, hundreds. Interesting. The number is zero. I was like, there aren't hundreds, and again, you're being either because you're dumb So pick, I don't know which one you are. And Abby Philip is loving this. And I was like, there's zero laws whatsoever restricting anything. And some of it's because but some of it's because our to regulate privacy and There's not a national privacy bill. There's not a national, there's not an algorithmic The antitrust laws are back when we were worried about Which I think we need to And so, you know, they've because of the enormous on lobbying. And I don't blame these That's their job is not to But for our most, the wealthiest citizens in running the most valuable companies in the history of the world, It's like, it's astonishing actually, when you think about it. When every other industry, or pharmaceuticals, not enough, the regulars make a mistake. Or, you know, everyone else has laws they have to follow, Ruber Murdoch had a against him 'cause of his shitty report, whatever he was doing over there. But he lost, he should have lost. You can't sue these people either. So they have a, the only law in existence is a law that restricts So they have no regulations, And they control all communications. I don't know how we don't under- why we wonder why we are where we are, so. - Glad you brought up regulation because with Congress the recent antitrust what long-term effects do you see these regulatory pressures Do you think they'll restore balance or... - It's like a parking At this point, I wrote a taught when Google tried to buy Yahoo. I was like, no, like 98% market And you know, the and do anything when they have the chance. And now it's, you know, that does something about the past. Like there's search has And so they didn't stop this. And now Google and others are leveraging into the AI business. Most of the AI businesses are And so they own the future and the past. And so again, that's their job is to try to be the borg. I don't, on some level, I'm like, yeah, that's what they're gonna do. They're in the business of shareholders. What our elected officials and regulating them in a way which they scream about. You're gonna stop, their big thing is if you regulate anything, It's ridiculous. Like, you know, we have, it's not true. Like every other business is Sometimes it is. But in general, safety We have an opportunity to do safety stuff. I didn't also like this I like Scott a lot, but it was But there is a way to get to AI, but California shouldn't be regulating AI. It should be the federal government. I mean, then there'll be and then there's global AI regulation. It's crazy. And that makes Well if you have to follow, you know, 120 different legislators, two are as dumb as a box of hammers, so. Missouri is not a great They lost in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court for once around some of these crazy - Talking about the future of In your recent book &quot;Burn Book&quot;, you did mention that tech Many people in this room, or have worked in tech and maybe we'll rise to What advice would you give on how to restore humanity back to tech and what will set tech - Yeah, well stop being such an asshole. That's what I tell my kids. I do think there's a although there's a lot of I like Satya Nadella. I think they act like adults. It depends on the person, but I think the concentration of a very few people in our It's ne- it's like this You know, whether, if you go back and look at all kinds of in history around industry and business, there's always It's always a bad impulse. It's good for the concentrator, but it's not good for society at large. And so that's why we That's why we had our breaking up of AT&amp;T and it always results in more innovation. If Microsoft hadn't been Google wouldn't have existed. Like, and it always opens up And I think people shouldn't Competition makes everybody better. And when they talk about innovation, they talk about preserving not allowing other innovation to flourish. And when you have something it's not like the internet. This is really expensive, And so it's natural are gonna dominate, but There should be, who knows in the crib if we don't do this. I'm not sure what you can Some of them are just bent That's, I don't know what to say, therapy. You can't force them to take therapy. In general, I am very heartened by meeting a lot of young entrepreneurs 'cause I think they do especially climate change entrepreneurs. They're, it's much more diverse. It's much more, you about this DEI thing, first of all, everyone has access, every group, every push to do anything has access. That's true. But at the same time, there's never been a bigger beneficiary of government than many Like that's the thing. They benefit from their DEI, but they don't want So it's a really, it's an And the other thing I always say about DEI is that if you have a homogeneous group of people creating The reason tech is unsafe, a is because the people who unsafe a day in their lives. And I know this, I have They're like this, right? I was talking to my son who's and I just hired someone for And he notices these things and I have a woman investment banker, have a woman lawyer, a woman accountant. And then most of my staff are women. Just are, I have a man, I have men, I have other different people. And I just go for the qualified person. And he goes, well you have that's discriminatory. I go, it is. And he goes, &quot;Well&quot;. And I go, yes, look at that. Isn't that terrible when people are hired for just their gender? It's interesting. And we had And he's like, I think you And I said, okay, I'll hire I'll do nepotism. I actually have my son and we call it the episode, but 300 emails after he came on. So therefore I'm gonna because I can see, you know, But I don't know what you, Manny, I think there's a deleterious I think if someone's they're going to think they I just don't, I don't know I don't, you know, better taxing. I don't know if that'll help, but, and you don't know who's and who doesn't. Mark Cuban used to be such a Like, I don't know what I don't know what happened. And so I just think the best thing to do is not concentrate power in the hands of one or two people. 'Cause you don't know and what's gonna happen to them. And that's my, like, non in the hands of people and sharing it with the rest of the world seems the best way to combat bad actors. And the last thing is, there's The tech is a tool or a weapon. And it is often a weapon. It'll always be a weapon, if you don't think it's gonna Like every single tool So what the reason it's is 'cause it can be used as a tool in so many amazing ways, right? Whether it's with AI, or cancer research or all It could also be used misinformation, propaganda. And if you don't think, I had a really interesting with a VC where he and I put up Vladimir I said, you just repeated without knowing Vladimir Putin's talking points. He goes, I don't like Russia. I said, well, you seem to like Russia because you literally what Vladimir Putin says. And I said, and if you are you fucking kidding me? Like if hearing me San Francisco Russia's a problem, like that's a weird world we live in. And so they are not our Neither is China. They're not our friend. They have a different system We are not an autocratic country. And so what's really interesting is that they themselves are subject to propaganda and have been bent by it. And so I always try to and then send it to them and and this is what you said. Now, do you believe that or Or you just want to be in the group that's become radicalized right now? Which they don't like There's not as many of 'em as you think. They're just louder. A lot of the people are and pretty open-minded in tech. It's just the ones that super loud more than others. So that's my take. If you look at the list of sort of, I would say Kamala supporters Reid Hoffman, Bill Gates, Vinod Every one of them. It's really They're all, Sheryl Sandberg's in there. Oh, there's Lisa Sue, and they're all like stars. When you go to the other side, it's Elon and Peter Thiel, great entrepreneur. And then it's the Winklevoss brothers. And you're like, it drops off rather fast. You know, it really does. You know, David Sachs, like Microsoft closed and he spent $30 million to speak at the Republican convention. That's pretty much his And so it does drop off with those people in the... I think most of tech people who are smart really just aren't political at all. I find them nonpolitical and mostly like, just And so I just, they're just super loud. They also have opinions about Ukraine. Do we really wanna hear from a venture capitalist? We do not. We do not. You do not. I know you guys think you 'cause they don't know Neither do I, don't listen to my opinions about Ukraine either, although but I still don't know much, so. - So should we move to questions? - Sure. So here's one from That means he started this year. Darren says, &quot;You've often as a place where very smart people ask very small questions.&quot; - &quot;i.e digital dry cleaners.&quot; - Yeah. Yeah. I used to call it San Francisco assisted living for millennials because I was like, they're like, I've got a dry cleaner for I'm like, okay. It goes, There's no fucking way it's digital. It's just on an app, right? Like everything, they tried to pretend So it used to drive me crazy and it gets a little vexing after a while. I'm like, can you think of nothing better than to deliver food that's losing money? Like I really don't think I think you're just using VC - Haven't asked the question yet. - I know what, I know Sorry, go ahead. - Yeah, go ahead. - Alright, so here's the question. How would you advise aspiring tech leaders such that we might avoid this trap? - Well, you think of big ideas. One of the reasons I did and interesting 'cause he had big ideas. He was talking about cars, he was talking about space. These are big fucking and 'cause I was dealing with him and, of course, I would wanna talk to him. And he really did accomplish You know, it is gone off But that said it really interesting. And so what I would advise is like, one of the columns I in the New York Times was and I made this up, I said, the world's first trillionaire is gonna be a climate change And I just made it up. I just said it. And I really did believe, it's like, pick something that has an enormous market like that really is of a great need. And so you could see what's or Florida or anywhere else all the time. We are in the midst of a climate crisis. It's just gonna spin outta control. There is all kinds of whether it's hydrogen whether it's fusion, whether it's, to me, you go where the puck's going and we have to figure out By the way, I'd never leave this planet, but I think we will. I think as a population, we're And so you have to sort of pick something that is meaningful versus something that is meaningless, right? Another food delivery service. How, I'm sorry, I don't Food systems, absolutely. How we make food, how we deliver the energy efficiency, clothes making, everything has a technological aspect. And so the link between digital and analog I think is really interesting. That's what I'm writing is that healthcare another area, incredible strides that are just mind blowing of solving cancer in this generation, I think is very doable. And you've got some and at Stanford, Karen, Jennifer Doudna. Yeah, there's lots. (all laughing) - Oh, so you can spread it around. I know it's a country club, but Stanford has some very good academics. - Okay, so we have another Oh, so this is a second year &quot;Given the way tech changes shifting neural connections, of neurochemicals, et cetera, do you feel that we If so, how?&quot; - Well, not without regulation, right? Like everything we use, like And then if they're deleterious, we get rid of them or whatever. Red dye number three. Like everything that physically And one of the things just as a parent is this especially both men and women. By the way, I wouldn't just, you know, what's happening to men and loneliness is really a problem. 'Cause it'll be a problem You know, someone on my show is like, why are you always talking Scott, this is Scott's area of thing. And I was like, 'cause men are bear. We're picking bear now, right? Like, I mean, we can't pick bear. We have to, you know, we lonely, addicted unsocialized men. That's a real problem. Like, The different, there's a good this week about the different, the differences of and women, which was, you all should read. It's really something, not everybody, but the living at home, the loneliness, the isolation, everything else. So I do think about why we or thought about or demanded to know from these companies what the actual impact of, we do that with food, we do Why not this? 'Cause they hide It has nothing to do It's foisting a product on And are there ways to mitigate it? And are there ways to over the negative benefits? And plus the problem is, and I just did a great interview with Vivek Murthy who's who has zero power and a very cool suit. But he's been calling attention to it. About this idea of how do you stress that, the problem with these products Some of it's really good. And so how do you And it is by nature addictive. Tristan Harris has written It's addictive and it's necessary. You cannot not have it for your So something that's both addictive and impossible to separate that our society has to think about. - Great. We have one from Hayun MBA student class of 27. And they ask, &quot;How can that they're not Okay, well that's sort of the same. He actually has a choice of three. So let me go to the second one. He says, &quot;In the vein of making what's the one question despite their PR media training?&quot; - They aren't very good at You know, I often, one of the reasons I think I'm successful, I think a lot of reporters 'cause they wanna stay in a Like they're very scared about access. They're very, that's a real, and I've had a lot of access by the way. But I think the best way to with people, right? And often I'll be like, there was, if you're dead honest with them, it seems to me I've done I don't know why it works, but it does. And like at one point Steve Jobs was a real prickly character, although now he looks like a sweetheart. But he was, he was in a lot of ways, he was a very complicated guy, but very interesting When he came outta the back, they had just introduced It was a social network it was terrible. It was called Ping. It was What they were doing was chasing Facebook and chasing, Apple never chases people. And they were. So it was a weak moment for them to chase in an area they had no expertise in. They were hardware makers They were not social media makers. And so he came out and he's like, what did you think of Ping? And I said, &quot;It sucks.&quot; And he goes, &quot;Well that's not very nice.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, it sucks. I don't know what to tell you. It sucks.&quot; And he goes, &quot;It does suck.&quot; And I said, how did you let it happen? He goes, I know, I'm a fucking asshole. Why did I let it happen? And I And he goes, I should kill it. And it was like, it And so one of the things I tend to do is say when I'm in interviews, we sit down and like, I was just at Apple and Tim was like, what'd I went, eh, like Larry David. And he goes, he goes, I go, I like it. I like what you added. But you know, the phone paradigm has to change rather drastically because we're at the end of Like, I don't think we're because of AI. It'll come and pull it for us, right? And I said, the whole phone paradigm has to change so it's fine. And he's like, well that's not very nice. I said, what do you want? Like a medal? What are you a 12-year-old who wants a medal for everything you do? You stand up, you get a medal. I'm sorry you don't get a medal for adding a click thing on it. Like it's a nice click thing. I'm happy it's there, but And so I think that works better. He did invite me back. He was like, oh, that was interesting what you said about apps. And I was like, good. I got that through. So I think being honest is the best way. Just don't make shitty stuff. Like, you know what Don't you all know, right? You know. Not all of you, some of you may be stupid, but some of the people... Like when I was running my staff, I had a guy who would write Like he thought, he confused That's what he did. He was very active, but a It was just like a And so I said to him, I said, how can I explain to I said, here's the deal is I happen to like hot dogs, but hot dog is not very good for you and it's not the finest, And I said, you're making hot dogs and it's a better hot but it's still a fucking hot dog. Like, I don't care what you Like it can be like a Chicago dog. I love them, but not It's not, stop making hot dogs. I was like, make something good. And so I think that's You know it, you know when I know you know, and stop - Great. - Stop making hot dogs, but - This is from Judy who's who asks, &quot;How might we future tech leaders reform the cultures of the places we go to work? Can we do it from the inside? Or are we better off starting - I think starting a business is better. I like that because I don't like working in established organizations. 'Cause I end up, I'm like, oh, do I have to listen to you anymore? Like at one point I just, and someone, I tell this story and they said, why are you leaving? I said, I don't wanna talk to you anymore. I can't talk to you. You keep talking to me about And I'm barely concealing my rage at you. And like, I don't wanna be rude, but I just was rude by telling you I don't wanna talk to you anymore. And then, then I said, life's too short and you just took up five minutes that I don't wanna give you anymore. And so she forced me into it. Let me just say, I didn't wanna do this, I wanted to leave quietly out the back. But one of the... I got off my thing. What - Can we change the - Yes, you can. Like, I think what's been difficult about, and you have narcissism that a lot of people who One is, I do think it suffers And I don't mean in the I think of like, I was always pushing to have more conservatives there. Age differences, places Homogeneous societies die. They do, they just, in nature they do. Heterogeneous societies are We have all kinds of people I can't be, I was telling backstage, I talk to Liz Cheney now all the time. I don't know, I can't believe it. Like, Liz Cheney, Liz fucking Cheney. Here I am, like texting with her. And one of the things is to get the points of views into your things so you can go, oh. And that's one of the beauties of pivot. Scott and I disagree all the time, but we do it in a civil way. We learn from each other. We change, him more than me 'cause he needs to, 'cause But it's a journey we always say. But it's really important. And when I think about I get the attacks 'cause they feel under, they can't do whatever they want all the I always say to them, I'm like, what's the opposite of Lack of diversity, non inequality, exclusion. Is that any way to run a pizza joint? Like, I'm sorry, it's not. It's just not if you And so I'm talking about much more, many more voices versus just a few. 'Cause you end up, Twitter was like this in the early days. They had, I did a story which they had a board with 10 Now, nothing wrong with I love white men, like, And so the lead I wrote was, and Twitter's audience was so diverse. It was so interesting. The demographics of Twitter, It was a very interesting mix of people on that platform once. Now it's a Nazi porn bar, But it was really interesting statistics and I was like, why don't they have a board that reflect, 'cause it's easy to get you know, whatever. And so I wrote a lead that I which has three Peters and a Dick. There's some problems. And so the CEO called me It was all about penises. And he called me, Dick Costolo, and he was the dick I was speaking of. And he's a comedy person. He laughed. He like, that's really And I go, no, no. Literally how mathematically could you get to that group of people? And he goes, well Kara, That's what he said to me. And he's a good one, let me just say. And I said standards? You only mentioned standards and people of color, you never mention it with you into a wall over and over and over again. And you get to do it all the time. Your business is in a free What's the standard? Stupidity? Like what is the, you know, and so I think diversity in all its forms is a better way to behave. - You said there's 10 of the My daughter would call that a broverdose. - Broverdose. I call it a sausage fest. My son's hate when I do that. My poor sons. They're so cool. - I think we have time for one more and there's a, I'll read the PS first. This is from Stephanie Doyran, who's in the executive MBA program. They say myself and many I know are so that your voice exists, You use your platform to inspire and spread intelligent thought. Thank you. And then she has a question. What's the most that would have a significant I think everyone's gonna take note and invest based on what you say, so. - I would say climate change tech, I am really, really interested in that. And it has peripheral issues, but the threats we face on Like massive. And I'm worried that shoulder into it, including There used to be incredible government industry cooperation, which I really like. I really do like that. It's It's either private or public, right? And so climate change that's gonna be so costly of how we live. And we have gotta think of water, water maintenance, of closed production. The analog and digital in a really interesting place. The amount of data we've we really could start to like much better way and have the AI, for example, It really is going to It does a better job. And so to me, if I were starting coverage, and my next book is is in this book, but it's about all the health stuff, all this around the unnecessary costs of people being overweight, of being like diabetes in this country. At least people have, I just, people in other parts of the world are dying of other things. I mean, typhoid is back, which Polio is back in some places, which is, I cannot even believe to eradicate it. Malaria still continues to be an issue. But in this country it's, and heart conditions and stuff like that. There's all kinds of really fascinating drug discovery happening in that area. And we need to lean into How we live, how we build how we build buildings now. It really, it's like crazy. It makes no sense from an economic or a climate point of view. And this isn't just like, We love climate. You're It's not, it's an the way we're going to live. And anybody, and by the way, you don't have to have children no matter what fucking that JD Vance says, if you don't wanna have children, don't have children, it's fine. Like it's such a sick way And he and I got, see, you know what's really When he was a venture just so you know. Just is like he had five minutes doing it and he was bad at it. And let me tell you, a during that period. And this squirrel Just pointing out he was bad. I call him Peter Thiel's failed intern, which Rachel Maddow made up, That said, his children And many years ago I did an and he was struggling I had a stroke, I had a similar He was struggling, but He is a young guy. I had I had aphasia, I messed up words. It is very easy, especially under stress. So I had gone, actually gone through it. I did an interview with him, he was fine. I knew just where he was Because exactly the same thing I had. And of course the Republicans and he was vegetable, all this and that. 'Cause they were ignorant, Whatever you wanna do, if you wanna be a terrible and not win fair and square, up to you. You terrible person. And so I had done an interview and I said, I just, I'm sorry, I think he'll be fine in like a year. That's what happened to me. And of course he is, he is You can see him. He's And so for some reason JD like crazy 'cause he 'Cause he had no legislative career in the Senate whatsoever. Just so you're aware. And there's like lots of Republicans, I think do good legislation, tons of them. Ken Buck, others, many others. And so he for some reason about the whole thing. And like that I was lying about the stroke and I was like, JD, sorry, And as usual, you're speaking which seems to be your MO. And then he goes on and on, he starts going on about liberals don't believe And that's why you wanna hire or something really offensive like that. And he was like on and on about children. He was obsessed with it. It was weird. And of course now it's all come out, you're seeing quote after quote. And so he was on and on about children and liberals don't believe in the future, you don't have children. I was like, you really need So I wrote him back. I go, well, JD, I have four You're a straight guy with a wife and I have double the amount of children, which is really hard to do. So do you have a problem with your wife about having children? And I said, 'cause if a lesbian has twice as many children about you, but I would worry about your masculinity. I was just trying to get him. And I said, I believe in the but it shouldn't matter. Anyone who lives on this planet should believe in the future. So I'm just giving my thing, it drives me. The vice presidential this fucked up version of So I'm sorry, I just did that on the side, but it's really, he's And Donald Trump is old and so So just think about that. The actuarial tables, he has a 20% chance of dying in office. So think about that. Like think about that when Even if you're a Republican, think of this as the guy who attacks women and people without children. Sorry, that's me. Just going crazy. - That's great. - Climate change, climate change tech. If you believe in the future, and anyone can believe in the future, and I do believe in the future But that doesn't have to be the reason. If you believe in the climate change tech would Food tech, healthcare tech, like those are the areas that And where I think actually So you could, it's not but these are good things for making another dry cleaning app or whatever, whatever shitty product they want to voice on That's the only thing you can do. And digital is created a situation where anybody can do that. And that's a really exciting thing. And it continues to be. - Okay. Well thank you. So we've had a ruckus couple Tony Fidel was here and at least he apologized that he used the F-bomb to me. - Oh, he's like that. He's a funny guy. He's a great guy. He was early, he did the He's calls him himself, sort But he is, he's a really great guy. And he did nest and everything else. He had a birthday party speak. He's a rich person, I can get behind. He had a party at one of the And he hired, it was at Macy Gray for his, when she was having troubles. She's, I don't know but he hired her as the singer 'cause that's what rich people do. They hire like Eldon And she didn't show up because And so he had to bring And I go, nicely done Tony But he's a great guy. He's a really, he's a great, he's a guy who's made great products, FYI, that's a perfect example. And he's a laugh riot too. - So listen, as Bill irreverent and brilliant, thank you. - Thank you. I hope I offended at least 12% of you. (audience laughing)