(bright music) - I get a lot of questions Y'all just come right up to &quot;Hey Bridget, what's and are they different Let's discuss. Well beef ribs, this is the rib section. Big beef ribs that are used for barbecue. These are the back ribs, Short ribs come from Of course they're short, They're cut either with the bone, that's called an English cut. Or across mini bones, Now boneless short ribs are not from either of these sections. It's actually part of the chuck The intersection of chuck, rib and plate. Now they are a boneless because they're from the chuck section and they're often used but Lan's here and she's gonna to enjoy boneless short ribs. - Bridget, have you ever - I have never had grilled short ribs. - You're gonna love them. They have all the flavor of a rib eye and the texture of a skirt - Yes. - It's that plate, rib, chuck section. It's kind of the trifecta. - It is, it is. I've got two pounds of And just one quick bit of prep because it comes from one giant muscle, you'll see this sold in I think the easiest thing to is to cut them into three It just makes them more manageable. And it makes serving them easier. So I'm just gonna trim off any extra fat, a little bit is great. It helps with grill flavor because the fat drips off onto the grill and you get little flareups and like really great grill flavor, but we don't want giant fires, - [Bridget] It's got all to that marbling. It's just spectacular. - You just know it's So that looks like four inches, right? - [Bridget] Sure. - [Lan] So that looks So I've got two and a half And I'm just gonna get There's no technique here just- - [Bridget] Just coat it. This is one teaspoon of pepper. I am sprinkling very slowly This can hang out at room temperature. It doesn't need to go in the fridge 'cause we'll be cooking it shortly. I'm gonna give these one hour for the salt to kind of It's gonna season the meat, I'm gonna go wash my hands, but then we'll get back - Okay. - Now these grilled short with a squeeze of lemon But I'm gonna make something a little bit more special for you. - Lovely. So this sauce starts out really simply with a quarter cup of sliced almonds. And you can use blanched or unblanched. It doesn't really matter but they have to be sliced. Just gonna run a knife across this. I'm not looking for a I want them to add some texture, but they don't quite need to be that big. And that's it. I'll throw this into It's an eight inch skillet of extra virgin olive oil in there. Before we start cooking, let's I wanna get all of my prep out of the way. I'm looking for two tablespoons of finely chopped preserved lemon. And you can use the pith and the interior. All of it is edible except the seeds. And you can check out recipes for the preserved lemons on our website. I'm just gonna run a knife through this. Just gonna chop. So let's measure out two tablespoons and right into the bowl. So I've got a tablespoon of and I'm just gonna crank And we're gonna toast these until they become kind of golden brown. It goes pretty fast it's And really the only key I like doing this with oil in the pan. I think it toasts more evenly. So I don't know if you can hear this, but once you get that sizzle That's just like the last of the water in those nuts leaving, As that water leaves, the nuts are gonna start to pick up color. - I can smell it, oh lovely. - Yeah, nice toast. That actually looks perfect. (nuts sizzling) - [Bridget] Woo, still sizzling. - I know, right? So to finish this off, I've got 1/2 a cup of minced parsley, 1/4 cup of extra virgin olive oil, 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, 2 tablespoons of the brine And just to round out the flavors, a 1/4 teaspoon of sugar. Give that a quick stir. So we'll let that hang out for 15 minutes and those flavors will continue to meld and seep into the oil. It'll taste fantastic. And you can even make Pop it in the fridge 15 minutes before serving So we're gonna give that and then head on outside to the grill. - Looking for kitchen - [Julia] Check out the America's - [Bridget] Cook with confidence and take our recipes, reviews, - [Julia] Access thousands equipment reviews, how-to videos and full episodes of our TV shows. - With smart searching, It's your ultimate kitchen companion. - [Julia] Download the mobile app today. - Bridget, let me show you what I've done. I had seven quarts of charcoal and that's a mounted Lit them up, let those coals And I went ahead and filled This kind of concentrates instead of having kind - [Bridget] So two levels of heat. - Yeah. So I'm gonna give this a quick scrape. I wanna oil this grate lightly and I don't need a ton of oil on here. This just helps prevent sticking. - [Bridget] And that's - Yeah, really simple. This is one of my favorite cooking methods 'cause it's so easy. We're just gonna take these ribs and pop them over the hot side. - [Bridget] That's a good sound. - Right? It's a great sound. I'm gonna rotate them As I keep rotating them, they're gonna cook really evenly. Then they're gonna pick Now if I were doing this on gas, I would actually pop the lid and it kind of helps the ribs On charcoal you're getting from those coals, like the coming up from there. That's actually helping so we don't have to pop a lid on. One thing I'm seeing right now is like we're getting little and small flare ups are great. Bigger flareups like I'm just gonna move these To keep them out of that flame. Those big flames they're gonna ashy residue and we don't want that. - Not good. - So I'm gonna take and the reason I'm doing that, short ribs have a good amount of collagen and fat in there and that extra cook kind of helps them eat a And it's just, it's really nice. You don't have to, if you want a more rare Just expect it to have - Okay. - The thickness of the short ribs will really determine the cook time. If you have thinner ones, they go fast. Thicker ones take a long time. I find that depending it'll take anywhere between - Okay. And you're gonna fiddle - I get to fiddle the entire time. I just wanna rotate every minute. - [Bridget] You were not kidding when you talked about the browning. - [Lan] Right? - Don't they look great? So these are looking pretty close to me, especially these smaller ones. I'm gonna move them over here so they don't overcook as I Bridget, 129. This looks good to me. So let's pop this on that board. We're almost there. I just wanna (indistinct) this with foil. Let them rest for 10 minutes - [Bridget] Sounds good. - Let's head inside. Bridget, you've been very patient. It's been 10 minutes, let's eat. - Reward. - The only other thing you need to know is that you wanna slice when you're slicing them. You'll see that I am slicing When you look at this cross section, you're not seeing lines across. That's what happens when and slicing across the grain helps the seat that much more tender. How beautiful does that look? - [Bridget] Stunning. Lovely. - [Lan] Yes, you ready? - [Bridget] I am so ready. - I always give this a nice stir. The lemon juice and brine So if you're skimming from the top, all you're getting is olive oil and you won't get as and that acidity. - Oh, spectacular. Cuts so easily. That's as beefy as it gets. - All those little flareups we saw outside give it that great grill flavor. It's nice and rich and fatty. The lemon cuts through it - [Bridget] That little is just absolutely beautiful. And I'm loving the sauce. - [Lan] Yeah. - That brightness cuts through the meat. Gorgeous. Lan this is- Well this is the best steak - The best not steak you've ever had. - Not steak and not short rib. What is it? It's dinner. So if you wanna make these rub the ribs with salt and Grill them over high and serve with a bright, fresh sauce. So from America's Test Kitchen, the bold, the beautiful, the beefy, grilled, boneless beef short ribs. You gotta try them. - We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take head over to americastestkitchen.com and get a free all - While you're there, you can sign up for our and download our app. - [Julia] With unlimited of our test kitchen recipes you'll have everything you - So I ask, what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.