Kharkiv. Its one point four million inhabitants make Once an important Soviet industrial center of the economic crisis. Everyday criminality has been growing due Younger and younger people are turning to earn money. The prisons: overcrowded. And the lack of economic opportunity is reflected Seventy percent of all released prisoners Those sent to prison for the second or third In Colony 100. Ukraine's answer to repeat offenders and Prisoners who live by their own rules. If you don't act like yourself, they'll Total isolation for the worst criminals in Serial murderers and child abusers. Locked in a tiny cell for life. Many with no hope of ever being released. A prison full of inmates who have nothing "My job is to keep them from killing themselves." Caught in a system that knows no mercy. Permits no misbehavior. Strictly enforces the law. And comes down hard on anyone trying to escape. Welcome to Colony 100. The prison for hardened criminals. Six a.m. Today another transport brings five new inmates A twelve-man committee of guards, doctors, "Number one!" "Number two." "Men. First I'll explain the punishment for not Every new arrival goes through the same procedure. "Who are you?" "I'm Alexander Alexandrovich. Born in 1975. I've done time in Colony 63, and most recently "Okay. Take your things and go to the gate. Line up at each line you see on the ground." Since they've all been to prison before, in all Ukranian prisons: stand still at white the ground. But they also know... Colony 100 is different. It is the best known and most notorious of It is a legacy of the Soviet Union. Even now, the inmates repeat horror stories Thirty years after the fall of the Soviet The somber architecture combined with barbed impact on every visitor. Colony 100 is divided into two zones. The main part is for repeat offenders. Strict discipline and work in the prison's criminals regain their freedom some day. The other part is a prison within the prison. The maximum-security wing for those serving It houses Ukraine's worst criminals. Like every morning, Sergey, a guard, reports According to Ukrainian law, the inmates of again. In Ukraine, a life sentence really means for The prisoners in this building stay here. Until they die. "The people in my maximum-security wing They are especially dangerous. They are guilty of truly awful crimes like "Take this man. He raped two small girls and then brutally "And this is Serenko. He's serving a life sentence for a similar He and his friends kidnapped two girls and "And this He's in for killing four people. He was a fireman. He used his job to kill four people in cold The men incarcerated here are extremely dangerous." Ukraine does not reconsider cases after a The chance of parole: zero. Two inmates once filed a petition to be transferred Both requests were rejected. No one locked away in this wing has ever left The prisoners live in two- or three-man cells, Locked up together, in a space of just twelve For the rest of their lives. The guards monitor the cells around the clock They have to make sure that the inmates don't Several have tried. Thus the signs on the door note level of aggressiveness names and personal details. Today we'll meet the most dangerous of the Six-fifteen. In the "normal" wing of Colony 100, the This includes a shower and a thorough medical few belongings. "Time to check your things. The first three: go to the table and empty We'll search it all." Drugs, knives, guns. There is nothing the guards at Colony 100 And this despite the fact that the inmates "It's nothing new for me. I'm used to it. But I'm curious what it will be like in I mean, I've got to live here four years Alexander is still playing it cool... "Maybe I can get out early, if I behave. I've got to try to get in with the guards." Indeed, he only has a chance at early release But there's often no rhyme or reason to It's time for Mihael Vuganov [Mich-ah-el Although he is surrounded by murderers and The danger of the inmates getting control "I have to cross the main yard to get to You can see everything from here. The maximum security wing is straight ahead. To the left are the guards' offices. And the administrative wing is to the right, Mihael begins his shift by waking the inmates A wing for inmates who have committed mid-level A guard monitors this wing of the Colony day There is a huge fence, but otherwise the prison first sight. In contrast to the maximum-security wing, The door to the building even stands wide For this part of Colony 100 uses a different "Hi. Anything special?" "No. All quiet last night." The idea: self-monitoring. The inmates have responsibilities and keep If anyone steps out of line, the whole group A cruel system, and unforgiving of any mistakes detained here. Eight men share 16 square meters. They work, eat, sleep - in one room. Whoever loses the group's respect has a Andre Zaike [An-dray Zai-ka] knows this well. He's been in Sector Four for three years. "We're not a family. We don't care for one other like at home. You're always with your cellmates - never That's why I'm sometimes happy I get to It's almost like being in a factory on the And you can tune out a bit during lunch. Otherwise... yeah. The worst is when I'm overcome by a yearning Walls painted purple, lace curtains. Sector Four almost seems cozy. But appearances are deceiving. Inmates in this part of the Colony also bear Only here, it's not the criminals who have "Our cell blocks are secure. There's no hope of escape. Even if someone managed to get out of the In the middle of the prison. And then he'd have to get out on this side. Right through the administrative building. But it's protected by bars and fences. Colony 100 is one of Ukraine's most secure There are three administrative buildings and A huge steel plant on the east side. And next to the maximum-security wing is the inmates. Like in Sector Four, they live in individual and walls. If a prisoner tried to break out, he would the prison. The whole compound is surrounded by a wall If a prisoner actually managed to get over A ten-meter wide zone with no way in or out. Armed guards posted in six towers monitor In the case of an escape attempt, the guards No one has ever managed to break out of Colony And the prisoners know that something else walls. The most powerful weapon in the fight against Specially trained dogs with only one goal: situation. "Freeze!" Seven o'clock. The guards are still searching the new arrivals' This is the third time Alexander Alexandrovich This time for unauthorized possession of a "Four years! I don't understand why I've been sentenced Why such a harsh sentence? Last time I only got one month for possession Alexander doesn't get it. But one thing is clear: the more often one the sentence. And he neglects to mention an important point: in front of a supermarket. The medical examination is meant to answer What is the prisoner's general state of Does he have track marks from shooting heroin? And is he smuggling drugs in his bodily orifices? It is not rare for doctors to find drugs in Eight-thirty. For the inmates of Sector Four, that means: When the guard opens the gate to the yard, They are supposed to go to the cafeteria, One of Andre's cellmates is in charge. He occupies the highest rung on the group's Only an inmate who has been inside for a long and guards can assume this responsibility. The hierarchy also has an impact on jobs. Every prisoner has to work. Victor and his fellows work in the prison's They're lucky. The prisoners who work in the cafeteria are Other inmates aren't as lucky. The hierarchies have their own rules. Earning respect behind bars is all that matters. The life one lived on the outside simply doesn't "If you want to know, you can ask other What they used to do for a living. And if you don't care, you don't talk But we mostly know why we're all here. It's no secret." The worse one behaves in prison, the worse The worst of the worst end up here: on the But every job, no matter how bad, is a diversion. Those serving life sentences only wish they Eight o'clock in the maximum-security wing. Like everyday, the guards check on the most The blackest of the black sheep. The guards observe a strict rule when checking more than one inmate is present. Thus one must be briefly moved. This one prisoner is so unpredictable that handcuffs put on. Only then do Sergey and his colleagues go "No. Go to the window." Rusha Hudoli [Roo-sha Hoo-doli] is the most He was convicted of murdering 29 people - Men, The motive: greed. He's been living in his two-man cell for "We sew bags to pass the time. I also have a television that gets several There are the beds. Mine is the top bunk. Here's a table where we talk and read, and This is how we live. Back there is the toilet. Yeah, this is our life." His time in prison has visibly affected Hudoli. Outwardly, he seems to have made peace with He paints a nice picture of his situation. "It's not actually that small for two It's okay if we stow the bags under the And when one of us is on the toilet, the other door. Sure, I regret what I did, but I can't change I'm being punished justly for my mistake, I wouldn't do it again. So, what else do I do? We play chess. We read. And I sleep a lot." Prisoners serving life sentences must stay They only get one hour outside - if the They spend this hour either in the yard or Whatever they do, one decisive thing is always Theoretically, every prisoner in the maximum-security to have visits from relatives. For a bit of normalcy in a bleak world. But Hudoli hasn't filed a petition in a No one comes to visit him. "My sister and my mother send me a poem Except for a couple religious people who come Alone in the room for visitors. To which no one comes. Men like Hudoli have nothing more to hope The fact is: with his criminal record, Hudoli Colony 100 is prepared for escape attempts Every few weeks, a special unit even trains of a hostage crisis. "Pay attention, boys. Listen up. Today's special operation is delicate. We're dealing with a hostage crisis. We'll divide into three groups: group one, a blockade team. We'll split up when we get to the crisis Take your positions. You know what you have to do. Sniper, go immediately to the roof and get Right face!" The operation is only a drill, but actual and hostages. In this case, four prisoners have used a shiv a guard. The special unit's mission is to end the "The storm group has taken cover ahead. The snipers are in position." "Ready." "Go." "Hands behind your back, out of the car. Don't move. Get out. Faster, faster, go, go, go." Indeed, the mission is accomplished within "That was very good. We disarmed them. Everyone in the car was neutralized." The hostages: freed. The inmate with the knife: dead. The driver is also dead. The others were wounded. Of course, this was only a drill, but it is daylight at the prison. "The operation went very well. Fast and effective. The hostages were freed. We do this here at Colony 100 because the They should see how we work. Right outside their cell doors. And the exercise cannot be ignored. Guns firing blanks can be heard all morning 11 o'clock, and no one had heroin in their All of the new arrivals passed the medical But Alexander Alexandrovich knows that the Inmates don't simply go to their cells in They must prove themselves first. And the cell block they are put in determines And that, in turn, reflects where they are Do you understand? Now you're in quarantine. You'll stay here for two weeks. Understood? Now we'll discuss the details with you individually. Two weeks of intense observation will decide will be agony or not. The first thing: an interview with the head "What's your name?" "Alexander Alexandrovich." "Date of birth?" "March 11, 1975" Then questions are asked about relationships, and previous jobs. It all goes into the assessment. "After a prisoner arrives, we fill out this There are ten sections in quarantine, and The file is given to him, and he keeps it Everything is recorded: behavior, doctor's Now at the latest, the prisoners understand of their confinement. Alexander and the others are not allowed to It is a highly stressful situation, and they "I was in quarantine in another prison once. But that's because I was sick. This is different, harsher. You have to behave very well in these two After that, they split us up. They interrogate us the whole time, and then We are closely observed, and we have to adjust Then we see what happens." We'll see more later about how Alexander Till then, the door stays closed for 14 days. 11:30 a.m. Andre and his cellmates spend the Their shift in the prison's steel plant Till then they hang around and use exercise "I can only do a couple of exercises. Free weights and machines aren't allowed. So I train like this. Easier exercises like push-ups and pull-ups There did use to be weights and other sports But then one prisoner felt betrayed by another He beat his head in with a dumbbell. The attacker ended up hear: in the "karza." The hole. That's what the prisoners call the old isolation basement. "These are our punishment cells. They're for prisoners who don't do what We put them in this room. But never for more than 14 days. No one could take more. The prisoner spends 23 hours a day here. We decide when he can come out for an hour." There is a hard metal slab for a bed. It can be folded down during the day to give A sink, a pit toilet. And: total isolation from the outside world. No one wants to be sent to the karza. But every now and again, one of the prisoners Even Andre had to go the hole once at the He was allowed out after three days. And since then he has never gotten in trouble. He even managed to work his way up to foreman About 200 prisoners work in the plant in three Officially they work a maximum of eight hours Whether cooking, sewing, distributing food, merely required in the colony; it is also The prisoners can make up to 50EUR a month. "It's damn hard work. Very tiring. But you get used to it over the years. And what else should I do? I'm in a position of great responsibility I have to monitor and train everyone, make right. It's my responsibility. Lots of the money earned goes right back to But Andre saves as much as he can, in order He doesn't want to slide back into the vicious For the prison, the steel plant is a threefold First, the prisoners have something to do. Second, they can cheaply do all the steelworking The inmates weld their own gates and bars. But the biggest advantage: the steelworkers The stadium where Metalist Kharkiv, a first-tier was built entirely from prison steel. Lots of money that the prisoners themselves One p.m. Lunch time in the maximum-security 100. A plate of stew, a piece of bread, a pickled Most of the small amount of money the lifers cigarettes. They'll never have the chance to spend money After lunch, the serial murderer Rusha Hudoli the yard. Here, too, the prisoner remains in solitary The yard is composed of isolation cells. Barely bigger than a half-garage. A small space, but lots of time to think. "I was born in Ukraine, went to school, Everything seemed to be going well. I had a wife. I started a family, and we had a daughter. Well, and then... then the murders happened. That's what brought me here. I didn't want to do it. I didn't like it. It just kind of happened. It started with something small. It was an accident, I lost control. I was in a fight. It was like self-defense. And then it happened. Suddenly I was a murderer. And once you've committed murder, nothing You can just keep killing people. One thing leads to another. You can no longer control yourself. And you can't go back and undo it. It's happened. He hasn't seen his daughter since he entered No one has visited him for months. But that is going to change soon... Two weeks later. The big day has finally come for Alexander They have spent 14 days in quarantine, where A commission will now decide their fate in "They're splitting us up according to I hope I get to join the steelworkers. I'm good at welding. I hope they send me there. I think that'd be best. "I'm Alexander Alexandrovich, born "Commission, what's your assessment?" "He has no medical problems." "Psychologically, he is very stable. He can do any kind of work." "Any social contacts? Yes, with his sister." "What else can I say? He has behaved perfectly in our Colony. He follows the rules. And he is socially compatible. His sister visits him regularly." Which section of the prison for hardened criminals More on that later. Colony 100, maximum-security wing. The mass murderer Rusha Hudoli has not spoken His family has forgotten him. No visitors for months. No one who wants to talk to him. That will change today. A psychologist visits Colony 100 once a month Most of them welcome the opportunity. It is a bright spot in their totally isolated "Don't you want to study something? Maybe do an academic degree?" "No, that's too hard for me. I couldn't do it. And it doesn't make any sense. I just want to keep sewing my bags. Do work with my hands. It's good for me. I don't need anything else." Hudoli can speak with the psychologist once In another cellblock, Alexander is waiting "You're going to the second zone, Sector Take him away." Sector Four: the steelworkers. Just what Alexander was hoping for. Now it's important to keep a straight face Expressions of joy could easily be interpreted Alexander doesn't betray his thoughts until "Great. Now I'll do my best and do what I can. At least I don't have to sit around under Life has a little more meaning again." Another goal: to be accepted by his cellmates. The experienced prisoner knows how to achieve "It's very strict here, but I'll probably I can't wear a mask, though, or pretend That would be fatal. It's like in real life. No one likes it when someone else lies or Just that here, such mistakes are punished Almost everyone in Alexander's cell works Time will tell if the other men in his new It won't take long. Four p.m. Alexander starts his new job as Five days a week, eight hours a day, he must Andre is not a bad foreman to have, but of The 52-year old does everything he can to "On the whole, it's okay. There are hardly any jobs in Ukraine. Here I can take care of myself. Without being a burden to my family." Shortly after 5 p.m. Hudoli's time speaking "How do you envision the rest of your time "I don't have any goals. I live day to day. I want to grow old. Then we'll see." Like many of the inmates in the maximum-security of life. He has given up. "My job is to keep them from killing themselves. I try to keep them as psychologically stable That's my role here." In 31 days, the murderer will once again sit Just to have someone to talk to. Until then, Hudoli will remain in his cell. Thirty-one days in which nothing exciting Thirty-one days alone with his thoughts. Thirty-one days in which new prisoners arrive criminals. Some will never leave.