First of all, I know a lot of people are still about Dragon Age Inquisition. Not because I'm some because I took forever to finish it and couldn't that). Secondly, if you're expecting me to discuss if it holds up to Origins, if it deserved the world and side quests measure up to The Witcher but here's a video of a cat celebrating If you don't know anything about Dragon Age, fantasy RPG series with three games--well, world as you go... well, they used to do at as many dragons as you might expect. Dragon Age Inquisition and... I won't lie, I to the other games in the series, naively trying debate where everyone and no one is right. But had overlooked the previous 4 times--something is what makes this game truly unique. In most RPGs, power is an obvious recurring more and more power over time, defeating that the only definition of power? Inquisition many different angles, making us reflect on it probably no one watching this video will ever have in that case... forgive me, I'm not worthy). you grow your personal power through stats, there are other games that do a better job in this variety, and abilities that have a more many other action or RPG games make you feel more individual power is conveyed primarily through its being a nobody and become someone special because save the world in its darkest moment. But you're For many, you're a divine envoy, &quot;the Herald of glowing mark on your hand, but also because of the threat to their own power, and others see you as game constantly makes you question how special be the savior or if it was just luck, the result or the wrong one, depending on your point power is revealed, it's still your choice how your personal power isn't just shown through the meaning you, your companions, and the world power is just the first layer of a much larger A famous philosopher once said, "With great happens when that power becomes greater than power reaches farther than you imagined. You start prisoner in a world where human rights haven't the leader of the most influential movement in your political and social power sometimes opens Wherever you go, people know you--for better topple emperors. Powerful people want to be your to tell what they're thinking behind those masks. collaborate with you just because they want a gameplay level, this political and social power missions. It's also why some of your companions other organizations ask for your help, and others play as an elf or qunari--two highly discriminated as the Inquisitor, many people overlook this side. Inquisition makes you feel this power and complexity to the protagonist and their narrative. people rally to your cause, and you eventually continent. You're like gravity... I'd love to expand gravity works. It's magic to me. In every region patrolling, gathering resources, and fighting charismatic companions against the world--you also characters with no backstory and generic voices. threats you couldn't have overcome without an but it's truly epic to see your soldiers storming off a swarm of Templars with an overdose of energy and talking to characters while exploring the individuals who join your cause and give you you ask? Well, it's where you really see how game mechanic where you assign your advisors yielding various rewards for your cause: money, me nightmares. Through text, big stories unfold your organization, which is also satisfying. This power: learning to delegate. It's the only way I may sound like one of those leadership coaches apologize for that, but I think it's interesting not just the Inquisitor, but the Inquisition. and not because you're a Twitter user convinced decisions aren't split into good or bad, blue you have to reflect on whether they were other factions will react to your choices, but if you choose to recruit the mages for your cause will agree with you wholeheartedly, while others This can certainly affect your judgment because more than others, but at the end of the day, because no one else will make it for you. This and I like it a lot, but in Inquisition, it's impact almost everyone. You're no longer just a can literally judge different criminals in-game... allows you to draw the line between what was Finally, Inquisition gives us one last lesson when you want to really connect with people. are some of the few moments in the game more than a leader or chosen one. In those thanks to the way you share symmetrically, moments of vulnerability you can allow yourself because hey... saving the world must be a bit reflection on when to let go of power, and that's During the DLC Trespasser, a.k.a. &quot;the ending that discover that your Inquisition has grown so facing its inevitable destiny: corruption. and outside, wolves and vultures are circling, Yet despite all this, you know there's still save from an even greater threat, so you face the alive and use whatever remains of its power to or let it go, dissolve the Inquisition, and with those who really want to save the world, clicked in my head and made me want to poetic that the last decision you make in a player--is deciding what to do with all the In summary, I think Dragon Age Inquisition is, find at least one thing that hooks them. For the concept of power. There are other games where Pathfinder Kingmaker, Crusader Kings, or Mount the one that best makes you feel at the head the power that comes with that. It may not fully but it certainly does through its narrative one of those works that make us reflect on our from political leaders of great nations to a boss. There are great classics in literature but you know what? Video games do it Well... I could end the video here, but as I was Veilguard, I realized there's one more lesson power as players. Throughout the game, there are made in the previous games did matter--from major or which Grey Warden will help you, to small there's a mission chain involving Zevran, one of there means you let him live in the previous same mission I did, just as I missed out on of the Dragon Age saga is, or at least was, this -- and tell stories we might never have been able to Veilguard, and I'll go into detail about it in the have faith. Faith that, somehow, at some point in in another title--our past decisions will come back it might be the best in the series; for others, But I think we should also appreciate it for it pays to our past decisions. That's where the ability to make the other games feel even better Well, that's the end of this video. I'm just my time making that video, but I'd rather go to add to the discussion, instead of rushing What's the hardest decision you made in to see it impact Veilguard? Drop a In any case, I sincerely hope this video was worth You can also subscribe and give it a like if you care, don't stay up too late, drink water, and