Today, I want to speak to you about going deeper in neighbor that was not your first choice and say, &quot;In If you have your Bible, let's go together with But Simon answered and said to Him, Master we have at your word, I will let down the net. The prayer beginning of the year we have a fasting challenge but in the middle of the year, we are taking a to intercede, to fast, to realign ourselves with It is possible to get halfway through the year with Nehemiah. When the wall was built halfway, the started to plot conspiracies, but then they prayed, nothing, they were able to finish the wall. And I in your life, He will bring to completion in your realize that maybe you drifted, but it's time to for the purpose of God. If you feel foggy, confused, feel bit defeated, if you feel disappointed, if you started this year, like man, I'm just waiting January. The Lord has a word for you right now, the year, and it's time to recalibrate, it's time it's time to get back, it's time to rise again, it's seek the Lord's face again. Listen, you that, and if you've been waiting for a sign, I am I'm going to share with you just five thoughts catch. That's exactly what God wants exactly what God wants your ministry to have exactly what the Lord wants your finances, and your I want to highlight, and where the story starts, Jesus, because a life without Jesus is a life, I'll and caught nothing. Jesus was not in a boat, Jesus and they were fishing all night, and they caught all night. It says, they toiled all night, because a life of toil, it's a life of burden, it's a life always chasing, and never able to catch it. Your heart has a God size hole that no sex, no clubs, no drugs, could ever fill, no boyfriend, no a promotion, can fill. Because if it will fill it, would fill it, you would need to club, if it would you would not need to get high, but no most high in the heart, and that's why there describes the state of a person who is without separate from God- Ephesians 4:18, under the wrath slave to sin- John 8:34, condemned- John 3:18, blinded hope and God- Ephesians 2:12. Some of you are looking how did the Bible do, well this is 2,000 is without God. See, when God created us, before he said ground produced plants, and the plants came ground to live. Then God spoke to the water, and in the water, and because fish came from the water, Himself, and said, let us make man in our image in the image of God, and therefore we need God as lose God, when you leave God, what begins to happen and God, it doesn't matter how educated you are, matter how good-looking you are, and honestly, doesn't be a beautiful goldfish without water, you're dead. you're dead. You still look like a tree, except dry where we came from. I'm describing here, not a life Christ. But, some of you in here, you came in today, sinned against God, the first thing Adam did is, he God. Why we don't want to pray? Why we don't a sin in our life, and this sin, not only separates and guilty. And this sin causes us to create a Adam quickly covered with fig leaves, his nakedness, But, you have to understand, no amount of good works, problem, because sin problem can only be solved us we are sinners. It's like a thermometer. You can measure the temperature of your body, to know, that swallowing it, doesn't cure the fever. Good you, you're bad. And you will have new age, cultural religions today, will tell you, no you are caught nothing, the Bible says, so don't believe the you are dead, you are defeated. Listen, the corpse, it's still a corpse. So, sprinkle a went to church, I feel so much better, you're still get encouraged today. Well, you're dead, and you resurrection only comes from one person, it's not why, them, they don't criticize and mock at Olympic dead. You only mock somebody that's living, and given under Heaven by which we can be saved by the somebody! It is Jesus that forgives our sins. Why? loves Jesus, who change your life from death to morning. Life without Jesus, life without Jesus find yourself with your nets being empty, they're of fulfillment, they're empty of purpose. Instead, heartbreak, they're filled with abortion, gender You came to the right place because we're here all night, and caught nothing, but I got to read And He got into one of the boats which was Simon's, and He sat down and taught to multitudes from the of the boat. See, life without Jesus is empty, but Jesus is separated from God. Life without Jesus spending hell on Earth, as well. Life in Jesus is all night, and the next reference we see is, Jesus sit in the boat. Life in Jesus is a life of rest, life of grace, life of acceptance, it's a life, where redeemed, it's a life where you are indwell by the God. Life in Jesus is a new life. Can somebody say places, you're part of the body of Christ, you're a you are justified, it's when you are cleansed. multitudes, because when you become a Christian, start to even do things for God, you must learn who legalism, trying to earn God's love, you will always Never enough of reading of the Bible, never enough enough. It's like you're trying to please a boss, challenge that we have to understand today is heaven, but our Father who's in heaven. There's in the Old Testament, to God the Father there's New Testament tells us this, when you become but something happens in the spirit realm, you this Revelation, prayer will be a chore, prayer going to a dentist, I need to, I wish I don't would be like cleaning your yard, you're like, yeah and if you do it, you hate it, and if you do it, Because you don't enjoy God, you don't love Him, that, if you don't pray enough, if you don't fast of His life. And you don't understand I don't pray so God can love me. I pray because I'm accepted, and therefore I fast. I don't do and pastoring the church because I'm afraid and I love God because He so loved the world. You illustration, my living example. I want to show you this will communicate, more closely, and They will draw the point. Could you come son. This is my boy. He still hasn't called me Papa yet. He how to speak. He has not washed the dishes yet. cost me a lot of money, a lot of time, and sleep, him before he even opened his eyes. I longed position in my heart, he's never worked for this this position is, he is a son. It's been given efforts. He will always stay my son. When he condition will always change, his position remains passionately pursue God, you must understand is, the same. You are God's child. He says, you didn't because He first loved us. You'll never be able love of God. He is the initiator. You're just a you know, my wife, she finished her duties him for just for a little bit, and he's kicking my five minutes, he's not looking for me, I'm always cries. I don't beat him when he falls asleep in my presence. If he falls asleep, it gives me joy. Why? Cause my family, he is growing, and because he's growing, is we don't change by trying, we change growing people change. You cannot change, if you're to grow, but you cannot grow if you don't have an accepted, and that environment is not religion that says, I've chosen you, I love you, and I will comfort What kind of love God has bestowed upon us that he prayer to to prove to God that you're a Christian. go to prayer to find God. God's never been lost. You treating prayer as something, oh it's a chore, it's That's why Jesus says, when you go into prayer, Your father is already there in prayer. Speak to don't know what to say, it's fine, be there. He still single day, just kind of does what he's doing He loves you. If you don't get that always be a uphill battle, pushing a semi- truck weights or something very burdensome. Let Jesus sit. fight for victory, we fight from victory, we don't so we can do right things. By grace we've been boast. We got to come back to the place, because He died, loves us, and nothing we can do to deserve that love. I don't love him because he's though. Write this down, Intimacy with God flows identity, you will never have intimacy for a life. My position is permanent. My condition changes. improve. Because I preached last weekend in doesn't see me as a upgraded son. I'm not son the son, before I'm a husband, I'm a son, before I am important position, I occupy, cuz you can take that from my life, because it was secured by birth, that God performed by His grace giving said the Bible says, and He taught them the truth, that place, where you toil, you cut nothing, you of you are afraid of being Christians, cuz you're work very hard for a God that's perfect. It's very first, Jesus says, abide in Me, and then in John abide in you, and then He says this, and then ask abiding, it will always feel like a chore, it will you kidding me, 21 days of fasting, man, it's just man, the church just always brings that guilt in identity in Jesus makes your intimacy possible. creation, a child of God, a bride of Jesus, a friend us free. God loves us and because He loves us, is how much you love God, you're going to be very self-righteous, legalistic, and condemning of anybody who doesn't measure up to yourself, and you will have roller coasters, there you will have more bad days than good days. On the even if you're saved. Why? Because you're the dark ball. The only light the moon gives is the of you per se. You have light of Jesus, and if If you focus on His love, you will always love Him love will decrease, your love will go like this, love will be passionate, but aggressive, mean, zeal, you're also a jerk for Jesus, kind of like, all over kindness. And honestly and half other days is depressed because you're not stable. that never burns out. That's what caught Moses's know what caught his attention, wasn't the fire My fire burns out. I have bad days. I have Mondays, Mondays it crashes, and so that is me. I'm to be a bad thing. Jesus didn't give me salvation isn't a treadmill. Salvation is a crib. And He take care of you, I'm going to grow you, I'm gonna you were saved by grace and you're gonna be of ever becoming an adult without unconditional rest of, I don't know how many years, 10 15 25 35. that he needed his parents, it's his growth, and He took care of my sins, from now on it's like says, now, learn to walk, learn to burp, learn to run and do all of this stuff, good luck, and I'm and I will cheer you. That is not Christianity. I finished it on the cross, what does Jesus's word with you always. And he's not on the outside propelling us, giving us the desire, giving us the becomes a delight, prayer becomes a something you you, He wants to be with you. And, why wouldn't He sat in the boat of Peter, but I want us to go He sat, finished teaching, the scripture says, so we let's address right now, life with Jesus. Luke 5:4, out into the deep, and let down your nets for a when Jesus was in the boat, He was just a little and this is a very important place we all need to we go forward. and what is this place? Nothing some people are freaked out by the thought everybody a license to sin, first of all, I've Sinning is not something like, yeah, let me go need a license to sin. Grace isn't a license to It's power to overcome sin. It's power to live grace. Jesus sits there, He finishes speaking, and into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch. called sanctification. Now, for some of you, who is, let me bring it to you in the baby terms. It's today, that boy is 17 pounds, 4 and a half months, how did I put him into a school, did he take classes on lots of milk, and then naturally, he grows. Within never stay, where you started cuz Christian Life continuous growth in God. A Christian, it says, for the last 20 years. If my boy, would have been same appearance, everything four months later, we we need to check him, something is not right, we healthy. God wants Christians to be healthy, and to growth look like? I'm so glad that you asked. out into the deep. So, go into the deep. Now, the sometimes it means, to be like, man, this person is the charismatic circles means whatever they said about like this mysterious things, that I'm I have no idea how that applies to my person life, mean it sounds so so cool, tell me more about the not talking about that. What does it mean to be Timothy, chapter 2, verse 20, Paul says, in God's house, there's also wood and clay. He says, some for honor, verse, he said, verse 21, he says this, he says that will be vessels for honor, useful for the master, great, that's really what it means to be deep, and simple steps. Are you ready for this? He says righteousness, pursue love, so meaning, pursue good those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. So Somebody say, pursue. And somebody say, with meaning, I'm running from something, I'm running Let me say that again to in YouTube. I am running after someone, His name after purity, I'm running, after righteousness, after kindness, I am running after fidelity, I running after these qualities, I'm running after As I am running after purity, at the same time, I am lust, and you are not running after Jesus, you got this., where the problem happens with growth is this, You cannot grow in a vacuum. You cannot go deep in Where many of us experience stagnation in our get fired up by watching a video, reading a book, we we're like, that's, it I'm running after God, but the down. The goal isn't to just to than drugs that gives you power to say no to drugs. oh, I just I'm just saying no to weed, you will go to anything greater. Say yes to God, then you'll that, I'm going to ask you a question. Who are you the whole thing. It can mess the whole thing up. And after God. I'm going to say no to sin, but man, people, I had life group experience before, I went something happened there, just because a barista easy. Okay, that's a bad illustration. Just because that you throw away biblical principles by which so that we can run with each other. Amen. So, life a life of grace, it's a life of rest, it's a life we're trying to constantly please this God, who's where you starting from a point you are loved, much, he wants you to grow. He doesn't stretch you, we grow. Most of you think that's how God's going you. Does God stretch our faith? Yes. But God always did we go deeper, by running after Him, running and then running with people God puts in our path, when they invited you to a life group, respond to home, when is the next life group, who is the person you've been avoiding, and let's go a step further, you up spiritually, maybe it's time. I'm not saying, we're saying, maybe put them aside for a moment and to find me some Godly friends, especially those of friends can make you or break you. They're like you down. Your friends are going to either bring Jesus. I want you to notice the fourth thing they had done this, they caught a great number without Jesus is empty life, in Jesus is full Jesus, by running from sin, running after Him, I want you to notice what happens. The Bible says, it was more like the ones that you probably have filled with fish. The scripture says, and they miracle catch. I want to speak into somebody's life net. He wants to bring a miracle in your family. He wants to bring a miracle in your health. Those to Christ with broken finances, maybe you came to you to have a miracle catch in your family, in your catch that will attract other people to say, man, want to go to his group. Why? Because there is a doing in Julian's life. I want to get around that there is a miracle, there is a blessing that is even connect to you so that they can connect with a catch, He wants to do a blessing, he wants to do God. Can somebody say Amen? We serve a God who came your heart with joy. He wants to fill your marriage, wants to bless you with good health and good Him. Amen. But one thing I do want to highlight. If you don't have a net, it's not that God will not put is a net? A net speaks of, see, when God created us, that He wants us to use to advance His agenda. For did Adam's kids were made? Because something is in became a baby. How do new trees get planted? God current trees, that we extract and put them in the your net, God will bring a blessing using what you when God came to Moses, and said, you know I'm about and Moses says, well, I just got a rock, it's nothing, woman had a lot of debt, and the prophet came and don't have anything, just a little bit of oil, it's put it down, and you put it into God's hand, God establish your paths. That's why, when Jesus wanted Heaven. He said, what do you guys have, they said, lunch his mom was very generous and and gave him See, what you have is not enough for you, what you have, what it takes for you, but you have what God you give God a net, God will fill it with fish. When families. He believed for revival and he went and fun of him, and they said, who will come, we had was an empty net, God doesn't fill, if you don't net, it was this building, we didn't have money to with you, He will sustain you, and God brought us a the first 10 years of our existence as a church people started coming and now this net is not big borrow us a different net because see many of I need a net. God blesses the work of our hands. Dreams are good, but give God something to bless, breathe on. The Lord wants to cooperate with you. He you a fish. He wants to put fish into your net, and God believes in partnering with you, and for dominion. Amen. If I want to touch the world, I got can't just sit there at home and say, well God, You God a net. Which net do you need to give the Lord? net to catch Souls? Did you know that your car can Did you know that your marriage can be a net that your job can be a net? Did you know that if you it to you, lower it down, meaning, God, I submit it and God can do a miracle in your family. Amen. Let's miracle catch happens here, the net is filled with Miracle Catch Ministries International LLC. Jesus, create e-courses, and write a book on how to have a and tell everybody else how to have a six figure happens. That's not how this story ends. How this their boats to land, they forsook all and followed you'll have to leave the fish for Jesus. Many of church. We celebrate with liquor what we fought brings you closer to Jesus, not further from Him. an end, and the end is the purpose of God. You may The miracle here was just an invitation, not to pull them out from that into something greater, a study, it was done that if you make $85,000 a happiness. So if your happiness, that you get at never increases, if you get more. There is a cap in bless your nets. The only way to go deeper, further, it's to leave the fish, and to follow the purpose purpose? For each one of us, that purpose different. pastor at Hungrygen, he's been here for 20 years, at this church, and businesses, and you know, he has comfortable here, and finally we got to a point for as long as I could remember, God taking is going to go, you know, on the relaxing, and he it's time to forsake the miracle catch, because today is a miracle catch. It's God moving. It's territory and to pursue the will of God and the and for him and that is to go in Seattle area. bro, what sin did you commit, why is the Lord like that, but see, that's how the Lord deals with for His purpose. At the end of your life, what will you hear Him say, faithful and good servant. That's is the kingdom of God, that's why our marriage is So many people get married, and they make their your marriage has a mission, and that mission is our finances, our bodies, they all have a purpose, And we know the will of God is to win souls, and to you're leading a life group right now, but what be bringing to your life group that will multiply place where Peter was at where you will leave can follow Jesus and shake the Nations and shake you, you're standing today, you just lost your about to bless your business, but what you think don't know is that God is going to be using you corner lot, or we get to built an orphanage, we don't just talk to God and God just talks to you. God You know, I heard this story, I mentioned it Armenian Champion swimmer, his name is Shavarsh Karapetyan. He 11 time world record holder, 17 time world champion, 13 time European champion, and seven usual 12mile run with his brother, trolley bus freezing water. That bus was about 80 ft offshore that incident. What happened with Shavarsh, he Olympic Championship world record in swimming into this freezing Lake, one option is you know, just call the emergency services, let me stretch don't do this kind of stuff, I compete and there, jumped into that freezing water with glass the bottom of it. It took him about 30 seconds to window of that bus, so he can start pulling people know, his brother would resuscitate to 35 seconds for each person, he pulled more than much glass dirt in his system that he fainted if I'm not mistaken he spent 40 days unconscious able to compete again. Two years later this news they kept a huge control over what gets and they said, tell us about that day, tell us about what was going on in your mind, why did you you pretty much sacrificed your ability world athlete, they said, what were you thinking, what he said, and I quote, I knew that I could only it was so dark down there, I could barely see a seat instead of a passenger, I could have saved nightmares. Here's a person sacrificing his glory if I can use the bibical terminology, his miracle compete again for something that will last for physically saving of people. What I want us to know to have a breakthrough in your life, but eternity caught in your net, financially, academically, in on one criteria have you done what God asked you you done that with your time? Have you done that It's good that you optimizing them, using them for fulfilling God's purpose because sometimes we use our own pleasures, and for our own fame and our own platforms and in itself it is not wrong, Paul tells, but he said, let them store a treasure for them be rich toward God. I want to challenge our God's Prosperity. We believe in God's breakthrough to get a miracle catch, it's to follow the miracle crucified on the cross upside down then that is and if that leads me, to starting a church, if that me whatever that leads me I am going to follow put in jail because I preach the truth of God in going to to follow Jesus. This story did not end a greater life. He who loses his life for My sake it. So, when you and I die, I don't want people to because my home is where Jesus is my home is where