SPROUL: There's an episode in the story of Alice in If you recall that Alice is traveling by herself a fork in the road, and as she comes to this She doesn't know whether to go to the left And while she standing there trying to figure attention is drawn up to the tree, and she tree with his diabolical grin. You remember the story? And, now she's relieved because there's someone Cat, please tell me which direction I'm supposed And, he said, &quot;That depends.&quot; And, she said, &quot;Depends on what?&quot; And, the Cheshire Cat said, &quot;Where you going.&quot; And, Alice said, &quot;I don't know. And the cat said, &quot;Then it doesn't matter?&quot; And, it doesn't, does it?. If we have no destination fixed in our minds, we go. You know, one of the central concerns in modern economic crises, depressions and recessions focus. In our day, management by objective, people the order of the times. And, the business leaders are told again and in whatever endeavor you're engaged, you must And you must sharpen your focus of what it trying to go, because if you don't know where goal is, you will spin your wheels and wander But sometimes, we're afraid to ask for directions, Somebody just said to me the other day, why the lot wandering here and there and what during the 40 years wilderness experience? And, I said, &quot;I don't know why? And, they said, &quot;Well, because even then men How many of you have ever seen, The Wizard Let me see. How many of you have seen it twice? How many of you have seen it three times? Four times? Five times? Six times? Even the camera guys had their hands up out Alright, I could go up to fifteen times. Anyone? Yes, fifteen times. The poor guys who work in the television studios I mean, that's at American classic. And, we all know the story of little Dorothy tornado and so on, and she's lost, and she She's off to see the wizard. Now, let me ask you, who were the other important Who are the people that are part of the entourage Who else is there? The scarecrow, the scarecrow, and the scarecrow Why is the scarecrow going to see the wizard? What does the scarecrow want? What is his goal? Huh? He wants a brain. Who else is in the entourage? The lion, and the lion joins this team, and why does the lion want to see the wizard? He wants courage. Who else is in the group? The Tin Man. So, we got the scarecrow, the lion, the Tin What's the Tin Man want? A heart, he wants to see the wizard because his power will be able to give the Tin Man And then, they have the little dog, Toto. And so, the whole story focuses on people's that is traveling to that particular destination Each one wants something different. The Tin Man wants a heart, the scarecrow wants wants is to go home. And so, the instructions they get are simple. The munchkins come and say what? &quot;Follow the yellow brick road.&quot; And all they have to do is follow, follow, And they follow the yellow brick road, and through witches and goblins of all kinds of get to see the wizard. What a delightful story. But, it's a story of people reaching their It's a story of people desperately working, that is of utmost importance to them. It's an American classic. It's part of the American dream, isn't it? In fact, there are many movies in our culture Rocky, Rocky Balboa, a punch-drunk, has-been, at the championship of the world. And, boy, when Rocky goes for it, when his in the theater is screaming their heads off There's a movie called City Slickers. City Slickers tells the story of Billy Crystal They are city guys, yuppies, and to get their where they can go out West, and they can become cattle drive. And so, they go and they become cowboys for They learn how to rope, and to lasso, and that, when they just jump on the cows, and Doesn't matter, I'm not a cowboy. But anyway, on the trip, they are lead on mean, hard, tough, last of the breed, American Now those of you who have snow on the roof I think the first movie I ever saw Jack Palance gunslinger. Then I saw him star in one, he had the leading And usually, he is a portrayed as a character Well, here in this movie, he gives sage advice He said, &quot;Men, you have, if you wanna know &quot;you have to do the one thing.&quot; He said, &quot;You have to do the one thing.&quot; What one thing? &quot;So, that's what you're gonna have to figure &quot;For me,&quot; Jack Palance said, &quot;My one thing That's what I am. That's what I do.&quot; And many of us have never discovered that our existence that gives us the stick-to-itiveness, road. The Tin Man said, &quot;I want a heart, and I'm The scarecrow said, &quot;I've got to have a brain The lion said, &quot;I don't have any courage, some courage.&quot; And, Dorothy says, &quot;I'm going to get home, The Christian faith is complicated. The Bible is a thick book. It's filled with admonitions, instructions for relief from guilt, for praise, for worship, But sometimes, there's so much there in the we miss the forest. And, people come to me again and again, and the big idea? What really is the big idea? What is that one, that single overarching Maybe He wants you to be at a banker, and And He has all that diversity, but is there this trip together must keep focused upon &quot;What does it mean? Boil it down for us, three easy lessons.&quot; In the last in the Old Testament, the question &quot;What does the Lord require of me?&quot; You said you want a simple answer. You want a bottom line. What does the Lord require of you? &quot;But to do justly, to love mercy and to walk That's what the life of godliness is about To do justly, what does that mean? That means simply, that a Christian is a person by an earnest pursuit of doing what is right. I need to pursue actively the ability to do And I also need to have a life that is characterized There's no English expression that can really there, because the word there is the word, And, it's the word that is used frequently And it's the word that is defined by this That God's loving mercy is a steadfast love. One translation reads it this way, &quot;to love You know, if somebody asked me right now, I know love me with loyalty, I've met tens I know I couldn't name ten that I'm absolutely And yet those are the people that make our They are the people that we love, and love And yet God says, &quot;What do I require of you? I want you do what's right and I want you that you love with loyalty. And finally, I want you to walk with Me. I want you to walk with me not in arrogance, Now, that's the way Micah summarized the whole But in the New Testament, we see a different is expressed in simple terms. And it is expressed by Jesus, when Jesus reduces to its bare minimum by saying this, &quot;Seek and all these things,&quot; that is, everything Seek first. Alright, let's look at that. Two words I want you to see here. &quot;Seek,&quot; and then, the word, &quot;first.&quot; Dorothy said, &quot;I'm trying to find the wizard, find him first, and in order to find him, I have to look for him. I have to seek for him.&quot; I've seen bumper stickers all over America. We all love bumper stickers and they boldly And I know what those bumper stickers mean. They're saying, &quot;I have found Christ.&quot; And, there's nothing wrong with that, unless pursuit of God is over. No, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of That's when we start seeking God. And when Jesus is saying, &quot;Seek ye first the not saying, He's not speaking to pagans, who the end of their quest, they will discover No. No, no, no. This is the priority of the Christian life. The priority of the Christian life is to seek, We are seekers. And to seek means to look for something, and Think of the way Jesus expressed the kingdom He said, &quot;The kingdom of God is like a coin He doesn't tell the story of a fabulously even miss that coin. But all of this woman's wealth is contained &quot;What does she do?&quot; says Jesus. &quot;She turns the house upside down. She sweeps every nook, every cranny. She searches under the bed, in the cupboard, find, because she's not going to stop this for.&quot; A man finds a pearl, more beautiful, more has ever appeared in history. And he's got to own it. And he goes to his bank account, and he empties owned, and everything he possesses, he sells. He sells all that he has, so that he can possess He's got to have it. And ninety-nine sheep safe in the sheepfold, counts the sheep, and realizes that one is And, what does the good Shepherd do? He goes out to seek and to save that which And, He will not interrupt the pursuit until That's what it means to seek. Jesus says, &quot;That's what the kingdom of God It is a mission of seeking. Well, what is it that we're looking for? Seek what? Well, He says, &quot;Seek first.&quot; The word there in the Greek is the word protos. And, the word protos, first, is not simply number in a series, like 1, 2, 3 and 1 would But rather, the term protos in the Greek communicates What Jesus is saying here is, &quot;Seek above seek something,&quot; that the essence of the Christian And so, we're not left to guess between the Jesus says, &quot;Here's what the Christian life Focus on the goal. Seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, That's the big idea. Well again, what does it mean to seek the What, how do we translate that language into In the 16th century, Luther tried to reduce The big idea, according to Luther, was that Coram Deo. This was the theme of Luther's quest. If somebody would've looked at the life of your purpose statement for your organization? What is the purpose statement for your life? What is that one idea that you have learned?&quot; And Luther would've said, &quot;My one idea, is Now, what's that? Coram Deo means, &quot;before the face of God,&quot; Luther said, &quot;You know what I want? I want to see the face of God.&quot; Isn't that the highest vocation, the greatest God gives in sacred Scripture, where He says will be fulfilled in what is called in theology, The beatific vision, is a vision of blessedness. It is the vision that carries with it, and level of fulfillment to the human heart, the soul of a human being. Augustine said, centuries ago, &quot;Oh Lord, thou are restless until they find their rest in Existential philosophers have said that the anxiety, restlessness, a sense of lostness, Augustine said, &quot;We'll be plagued with that and that rest will not reach its fullest expression The thing that is denied every Christian in on the face of God, the God we serve, the we seek to obey is invisible. When He expelled Adam and Eve from the garden sword there to bar access to Eden, to say, No one will ever see My face, and if you see God, you will die. No man can see Me and live,&quot; God said. And yet He promises that at the end of the are going to be able to not only hear the a curtain, but we're going to able to sneak John tells us, &quot;Beloved, we don't know yet know, we will be like Him, for we will see That's the highest goal of the Christian life, Remember, this doesn't start in the New Testament; would say their benediction, when they would the benediction? &quot;May the Lord bless you and keep you. May the Lord make His face to shine upon you, up the light of His countenance upon you and That was every Jew's dream, that they would from warfare and conflict and battle, but soul, the peace that passes understanding comes when God lifts up the light of His countenance upon them. That's what we live for ladies and gentlemen. And that's what Luther was getting at when Deo, before the face of God. Now, that had two sides to it. On the one hand, it means being motivated the while we are pursuing and seeking after that we do is visible to Him. He may not be visible to us, but we are certainly And Luther is saying, we must be conscious lives in secret, behind closed doors, sub Coram Deo, before the presence of God. In other words, he's saying, not simply pretend and beneath the gaze of God, because in fact, And we're going to live Coram Deo whether But he says, &quot;Just think how would you live acting out what you were doing and speaking of God? If you knew Christ were in the room watching you behave? Huh? I remember when I first started teaching up At that time I was in another Presbyterian where we wore clerical garb, you know, the thing just for weddings and special circumstances And when we first moved to Massachusetts, all my clothes, my good clothes were in the And so, we had to go out for dinner and stuff, suit, but I didn't have a dress shirt. So, I always carried my clerical stuff in my collar, and buttoned up my suit. I didn't have a shirt on or anything, but And I was driving down Route 128 outside of If you've ever driven in Boston, you know rate per capita than anywhere in the United And God created Route 128 to test people's It's madness, okay? And I remember, as I'd be driving down 128 off and zinging this way and zinging that them some suggestive gestures, that would blow the horn, but every time I wanted to wearing the collar. You know, I was wearing the symbol of the And I said I can't do that because I would Christ by acting like just the rest of these And so, wearing the collar restrained me from That's what Luther is getting at. If we are conscious of living our life, Coram that we're doing, we're doing in the name then we'll be a little bit more conscious For Luther, Coram Deo meant to live your life God, under the authority of God to the glory But, you see, all that is is Luther's summation ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, It's hard for us to seek the kingdom of God We've been born and raised in a republic that a national allergy to monarchies. We resist the idea of the divine right of We want a God who will rule by referendum, Ten Commandments. We shrink in horror at the idea of somebody can simply say, &quot;So let it be said, so let We want to debate the issue. We want to seek the politics of compromise. We want to be able to give our public opinion We want to be able to be casting our votes We don't want to hear a deliverance from on But, beloved, if you are a Christian, you And, it's not even a constitutional monarchy; is ruled by a King. That's hard, isn't it? But yet, even in our culture, where we don't in many cases go back to other nations, where And, it's almost as if we sense some kind a monarchy. How else do you explain the phenomenon in married, it's the biggest event in America? People, particularly women, stay up half the The biggest news item of interest in the paper other one, whatever her name is, you know, You know, we seem to be completely obsessed and princesses and princes. And even our fairytales call attention to Well, I like those stories, too. My favorite stories, my favorite, all-time the ancient classic tale of Robin Hood and In fact, in 1938 Errol Flynn produced the de Havilland. And, shortly thereafter, there was another I believe the title was The Bandits of Sherwood And when I was a boy, how I loved the story And, just like Luther refused to be disillusioned modern-day Hollywood to take away from me, I love Kevin Costner when he plays baseball. I love Kevin Costner when he dances with wolves, to usurp the role of Robin of Locksley. No, no, no, no, no. These modern versions of Robin Hood are heresy, There's something desperately wrong with him. They destroy the wonder of the original story. And I've always, you know, when I was a little We would, we would carve out swords of wood being the Sheriff of Nottingham, Basil Rathbone together and would each adopt the persona Somebody would be Friar Tuck, somebody would and they would sing as the minstrel. I liked Will Scarlet, until the modern version you know, he was really neat. In the original Robin Hood. I love those characters, and I love the whole You remember the story? Richard II, King Richard, Richard the Lionheart to leave his country for a holy mission, which criticism. He was on a crusade to free Jerusalem and And so, bedecked in the armor of the knight, King Arthur and his troops marched off to And in his absence, the deputy in command Prince John. I guess it was his younger brother. But while Robin, or, excuse me, while Richard Richard's kingdom. And, he began to impose heavy burdens of taxation with the man who had the responsibility and Shire. And the man who was the ruler of the shire and the Sheriff of Nottingham was the sheriff You member this story? And they were bleeding the people to death. And those who were loyal to the king were And so, they had to flee for their lives as deep in the forests of the King, Sherwood And, it was there that Robin Hood gathered loyal to the King, and they were called Robin I mean, I know that that sounds hokey in light of that time, but they were always depicted though they were dispossessed and disenfranchised, as hunted outlaws under the venom and the armies of the prince. Nevertheless, they were happy because their And, even though their king was absent, and challenged and denied by other people, and were quick to betray the king and embrace sit around the campfire and sing hymns of And, you know how the story ended? That Robin and his men would stop those who Forest and relieve them of their purses and Well, on one occasion, these two men dressed on horseback and all of a sudden out of the his sword in front of these men, and demands horses. And these two men cloaked with the cowls of dwarfing Robin Hood. And Robin Hood is challenging him and mocking and this man said, &quot;Oh sir, please, don't Who are you?&quot; Robin said, &quot;You don't know who I am? I am Robin of Locksley. Everybody knows who I am.&quot; &quot;What are you doing here?&quot; And, Robin said, &quot;Do I have to answer to you? He said, &quot;I live here.&quot; &quot;Why do you live here?&quot; &quot;Well, because I'm a fugitive from Prince And then suddenly, the tall man takes the his head, and opens the cloak at the chest, the Lionheart. Wow! What a moment in the film. I'll never forget that, the first time I saw And, instantly, Errol Flynn's on his knees, &quot;My Liege,&quot; but the king knows that Robin &quot;Rise Robin of Locksley.&quot; And, the King blesses Robin. The King consecrates his marriage to maid knighthood. And everybody lived happily ever after. I love that story because for me, that simple of the Christian life, because as we seek King is absent. He has gone away on a sacred mission, and Indeed, he is the just King of this nation, and are forced to live in the woods and in But yet they band together as happy people, King, and living for the day when their King But while the King is absent, they see their bearing witness to the reality of His kingship. And they pursue the matters of His kingdom But therein, of course, the analogy with the when our King returns, beloved, He won't come He already did that. The first time the King came, He came incognito. He snuck back into the land, but the next of glory, with the trumpets of royal procession Him, and every knee will bow, not simply those coming to their knees, saying, &quot;My Liege, But, even his enemies, we are told will bow He will break their knees with a rod of iron, No secret return for our King. That's the big idea, to live Coram Deo, to and everything else will be added unto you.