The modern United States is the most powerful country in human history. With over 800 military bases and 37% of global military spending, the United States has become the leader of a vast interconnected global system that has helped usher in an era of unprecedented prosperity and low levels To understand America's position in the politics as we know it, you have to go back America wasn't a global power in any sense During the first 70 years of its existence, and influence in North America eventually that resulted in the wholesale slaughter of But early Americans were deeply divided as the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. This became a major debate after the civil Secretary of State Seward, argued that America Seward succeeded in pushing a plan to purchase Greenland and Iceland, as well as annex territory That's because some Americans, including These people worried about America getting as having to integrate populations from "inferior" And this opposition applied major checks on But something was happening in the late 1800s The industrial revolution produced explosive required a more centralized state and bureaucracy Power became concentrated in the federal government, like William Mckinley, to unilaterally push The key turning point came in 1898, when President Spain over the island of Cuba despite intense The rising US easily defeated the moribund and the Philippines in the process (1898). Over the next two years, the US would annex (1899), and American Samoa (1900). A few years later the US took control of the occupy the Dominican Republic (1916), it also This period of rapid acquisition of far flung global power. During this time, America also began using and military interests abroad, installing and playing a major role in international World War I showed how just how much America's Not only was American intervention a decisive factor in the war's end But President Wilson attended the Paris Peace to set the terms of the peace. He spearheaded America's most ambitious organization, called the League of Nations, The League, a wholesale effort to remake global foreign policy had become. Yet isolationism was still a major force in Yet isolationism was still a major force in Congress blocked the United States from joining project. During the Great Depression and the rise of its own region than on European affairs entanglements abroad made it impossible for In East Asia, the growing Japanese empire and troops bringing the United States and Japan into conflict. This culminated in the Pearl Harbor attack bringing the United States into World War II. World War Two would transform America's The United States was the only major power it was the sole country equipped with atomic As such, it was in unique position to set of preventing another war in mind, it took The most famous example of this is the creation The UN charter set up a system of international ones waged by the Nazis and the Japanese. It also served as a forum in which the international help resolve them. This way, the Americans hoped, great powers and law rather than war. But while the UN is the most famous of the 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations New Hampshire. Their goal? To establish a global financial system that would prevent another Great Depression and World War. The resulting agreement, called the Bretton Woods Agreement ultimately became backbone of the global financial system. Resulting in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. By creating these institutions the United involved in the world's problems. The issue, though, is that the world's second-largest differently. World War II had made allies out of the democratic Hitler, but that couldn't last. The United States saw Soviet expansion in to its vision of a free-trading world. &quot;To a substantial degree, in one form or another&quot; Socialism has spread the shadow of human regimentation Over most of the nations of the earth And... the shadow is encroaching on our own liberty. Fearful of Soviet intentions towards Western created the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, invading other countries in Europe. Globally, the US committed to a strategy called was aimed at containing the spread of Communism This new global struggle meant that the US time. Instead of disbanding the massive military mostly kept turning. This had two main results: first, the US was like Saudi Arabia, Israel, and South Korea, influence in their region. Secondly, the US began intervening, often Soviet influence. Sometimes this meant propping up sympathetic supplying rebels with arms and money like Over the course of the Cold War, the US intervened ending up with a complicated set of alliances, tensions, and relationships in basically every corner of the earth. After the Berlin wall fell, the US could have with its allies and drawing down the size And while the US did military infrastructure and alliances from the Cold War war remained. Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton world's interests for the United States, actively managing global affairs. &quot; We should be and we must be Peacemakers&quot; NATO, created solely as a tool for countering a way of keeping European nations united in Washington's support for countries like as a means of preventing war in those regions. The global system of alliances and institutions War became permanent -- as did the American keep them running . This system remains in operation today, and no leading seriously called for dismantling them -- except, perhaps for Donald Trump. Trump has said contradictory things about But he's consistently argued that American protection, and questioned the value of free trade. That calls NATO and even the World Trade Organization into question. At some point, we have to say, you know what, we're better off if Japan protects itself against this maniac in North Korea. We're better off if South Korea is going to start to protect itself -- and Saudi Arabia?-- Saudi Arabia? Absolutely. This is a sharp divergence from the consensus 1945, and something closer to the isolationism So will President Trump act on some of candidate Trump's ideas, and reverse decades worth of institution building and alliances? We'll find out, soon enough.