Every single one of these that has the Arm CPU, and that device. There's a company nearly that doesn't actually make Yet its blockbuster IPO in $54 billion. Arm is open for its first It's the largest public Has brought confidence back Computer chipmaker Arm reception from Wall Street Rather than make chips, the architecture, then sells instruction sets to processing units, or CPUs. What exactly is an If you think about the CPU instructions or the tell the brain what to do, to lift an object. It also collects royalties its technology. Arm is the most pervasive of modern electronics. 250 billion of those brains history. Over 30 billion of single year. Arm's customers include Microsoft, Amazon, Samsung, Manufacturing Company. In short, the world's chips. Most people think about a Then maybe if they're think about the chip, but company that came up with how that chip operates. But once you do understand absolutely amazing. Arm chips are known for made with rival x86, the server architecture used by Advanced Micro Devices. Now there's a surge in It's the basis for Apple's which have replaced Intel Web Services' custom server flagship Snapdragon chips into the PC market. And now Nvidia and AMD are Arm-based PC chips, too. But in recent years Arm has About 20% of its revenue Smartphones, which almost are seeing a major sales And when Nvidia tried to buy deal was blocked by That didn't go the way that hoped that it would. But the sun comes up the And you have to be able to CNBC went to Arm in the UK to find out how it became so many big name customers, smartphone sales and uncertainty. Arm was founded in 1990 by out of a turkey barn in It was originally a joint Computers and VLSI, known The model was always to come we would license to lots of Apple launched its early the Arm610 processor in Way ahead of its time: ran display, which kind of goes company are. We were born running a was going to be low cost. company. For Arm, they received per able to take that money, and grow and expand. Arm then struck a deal with its processors in early beginning Arm's climb to architecture in almost all There's probably 16 to 20 smartphone. And it will do fingerprint, it'll manage applications. Arm went public for the Chief architect Richard I joined when we were much about 100 people, and been tremendous transition that through, expanding out particular market area into computing environments. Arm grew rapidly in the touchscreen phones growth of connected home Arm now has some 6,500 About a sixth of our and a lot of very high architecture and there. And then we've got a we've got people also in lots of other places around In 2016, Arm went private Japan's SoftBank for $32 Now CEO, Renee Haas was group at the time, into emerging markets, PC and phone, automotive, Every single one of those some way, shape or form. Stop, go. Arm says it has some 6,800 another 2,700 applications Some of those are for Arm's high-performance and cloud it break into AI since its Nvidia just partnered with Hopper Superchip, which is of Nvidia plus the CPUs of Obviously huge for any That's actually got 72 of plus their own big GPUs. By bringing those together that Nvidia has with the to come up with something times the performance of system for a similar amount But in 2020, Arm owner It had lost money on like WeWork and Uber. So it struck a deal to sell billion. Eighteen months blocked by regulators and a customers that also compete It was a long long process. Disappointed it didn't so much time on it. But I was very confident, didn't happen, things were us. Instead, SoftBank announced again and Haas took over as Arm made its second public climbing nearly 25% that It's fallen significantly Although it did beat earnings report, revenue expected, sending its stock Arm makes money in two different kinds of a fee to access the Arm their chips. And you're collecting chips? We are. Yeah. Any dollar figure you can I don't have the numbers off us basically, our model is from the royalties and from our licensing Arm dominates in smartphone But x86 architecture, 70s, still leads in processors. RISC-V is the The free open-source recent growth in from some of Arm's big Samsung and Qualcomm. They may have been seeking like Nvidia was going to RISC-V sits a few years I don't think we're going away. I do think in low designs, that RISC-V does Rival x86, meanwhile, has it than Arm, although that The amount of software actually tends to determine that in the long run. Intel was very good early software support for x86. Most servers were happened in the server has been componentized. It's broken up into that, and that makes it architectures like Arm. Arm's biggest differentiator something that's helping market. Apple, for M3 chips give the newest of battery life. Apple's move away from point for Arm's ability to smartphones. Nobody really believed, basically cut ties with x86 'We are going to bet the And that was a huge It was a change of the And this isn't to say that trouble, but it certainly question marks as to, well, others? In September, Apple extended least 2040. Qualcomm is another major processors using Arm. Although now Arm is suing make certain chips with its The issue started after company Nuvia in 2021, and license. Nuvia was actually supposed chip initially, so they had and so Qualcomm thought terms. Arm felt no, different terms. And it's that: legal discussions ought to be. The case is set to go to remains committed to chips on Windows laptops in On the server side, Amazon player making Arm-based And that was the launch of And really from there, Arm power, IoT, automotive, cow, we can build next of course continue on this smartphones, all based on Arm chips have long been in growth area with the rise capabilities. And actually, it's one of intensive tasks we've ever of mass deployment of it. And what we need to provide allow the world's software concentrate on this forward. And for this AVA development platform, which consists of 32 of our Arm is also seeing growth companies like Amazon and design their own custom depend less and spend less We've gone primarily from they did to companies like others who are now adding of their business, which a smaller team than entire And so you have to make simpler. And that, for starting to move in terms multiple components that They call it compute While more companies are semiconductor design, the major concern over the fact world's chips are made in Now China and the U.S. are going back and forth chip technologies, which Arm's significant revenue In 2018, SoftBank broke off independent entity, Arm by a group of Chinese It's essentially to allow us business in China, which is business. We set up a same time, we also created independent entity to specifically for the China Arm-based but some that are Haas says Arm has seen controls so far. China's a good market for business. It's shifted over It used to be largely Now it's mostly around the But Arm China was also years, with SoftBank and of the China business, Despite being fired twice, last year. Now, several are starting a new internal with backing from Arm's stock slid more than It's been very ugly and kind And now, of course, some of to start their own company. But again, a lot of Chinese relationships with Arm. So the expectation is work there because again, software. If somebody they have to build the years and years and years. In February, Arm China laid Meanwhile, rival gaining traction in China and Europe-based tech that China. Geopolitics aside, major slump in smartphone If they were still totally obviously not be great, but into these other areas, it opportunity. That's why you things like Neoverse for driving with cars and on So that's where they see We're not as impacted as one of the trends we've smartphones, is more and into those phones. So for increase in royalty per Labor is another marketwide The world's chip leader, of skilled workers for fab under construction in We had a shortage of talent It's hard for Arm. It's There's no way that demand next 10 to 15 years will It's only going to So it's a pretty fierce That's why Arm is helping Education Alliance to future talent pools, amid generative AI and the like Nvidia working on What that's going to mean is technology everywhere, in mentioned, and more and because every single AI Every single one. You cannot End stop.