This is my 350 millimeter cubed Voron 2.4. It prints five times faster than my Prusa printer, has the best reliability of any 200 hours of printing and 40 plus hours and this is the story of how I built In my previous video announcing is not a company, but rather an That means that while some companies sent me the entire kit for free have there are still a lot of decisions I, for example, decided to build that Voron supports at 350 by will be replacing my CR-10 V3. I also chose to go with my favorite black and orange, for the entire build. And although LDO Motors was kind that I've been eyeing for so long, I decided that I'll probably put that to try out the Phaetus Rapido hotend, folks at 3DPros, because I wanna push the More on that later. Unfortunately, as you'll see later on the decisions that I would need to make tool head I was going to use, which inevitably meant that I'd need to various components, numerous times. This meant that overall the build 40 hours, and I honestly stopped But as you'll also see later on in the I actually really enjoyed With that said, one of the parts much was actually printing the parts. I know. I know. 3D printing is the hobby itself that the true RepRap ethos behind printers print your own parts, and that's why And don't get me wrong. The Voron parts are perfectly no supports whatsoever, and cleverly capabilities in really unique ways. However, even with the handy dandy auto online, which lets you figure out which already printed, I still found this to For one, it can be pretty confusing and parts you need because the spreadsheet to have the adaptations that are unique take into consideration things that as whether or not you'll be upgrading the upgraded clicky detachable probe. Fortunately, I was lucky enough to little to no issues printing the the fact that most ASA has typically to bed adhesion issues in the past. My Prusa MK3S+ managed to print in my custom made enclosure, though I did have a few issues here to be expected that you will have Ultimately though, once the kit arrived, because my wife and I were expecting to speed things up by resorting to and I even used brims on some prints That reduced the number of parts that I failures, but it's not an indictment of still did perform and adhere to the bed And let me tell you, once I ran out of the wrong parts along the way, I the remaining parts that I printed. I will say though, that I didn't was going to take to print the parts. Sure, they tell you that you're looking normal printer, but what I didn't factor spend sorting through the spreadsheet, figuring out which parts to print cleaning build plates, organizing In retrospect, if I were to do it all puritanical dedication to RepRap and like 3D Pros Online, a company that for Voron machines to printed parts sent me, and even fully assembled Vorons. You can check them out using the off, and if you do, you'll actually Speaking of supporting the channel, I want from this video's sponsor, VOXELPLA. As you'll see later on in the but also most challenging parts of and configuring my VOron for peak Now, fortunately for me, I didn't issues were caused by material quality configured my machine using VOXELPLA. VOXELPLA was actually developed for print farm, so it's engineered for and tested for consistency and strength. It's guaranteed to be, as their tagline And yet, despite all that, it sells for two kilos or more in the United States. Now I've been using VOXEL extensively to just work without stringing, especially on this high speed Voron. Now, I highly recommend you check out reliable filament at a much lower price So visit the link in the description Alright, back to the video. While the remaining parts were the mechanical assembly of the Unboxing the LDO kit, I was sincerely blown away by the Every single nut, bolt and screw was plenty of extras and then packed away in And when I say every, I mean everything carbon pellets, because those three Anytime I scratched my head and wondered if they'd forgotten or left it out, included it and also spares of it. This includes all the tools you might need bits, to heatset tools and sandpaper, more popular upgrades, like the clicking tool head and enclosure, everything and much, much more. Overall, this build was incredibly It was so enjoyable that I often camera and enjoy the process. Seriously, I've had massages building this 3D printer. Whereas in the beginning I thought I soon discovered what I think is one Voron and something I didn't understand Sure you can buy an out-of-the-box even faster and maybe even for less Building a Voron is about having a no that you can modify, upgrade and repair. Yes, but it's also about the process. As I was working through the build, training, actually came into town for mentioned before, and he said something will be much easier to assemble... and in that moment I came up with metaphor for the Voron versus Sure, you can buy a Ferrari or a out of the box, but this isn't that. This is a custom-built, homemade to the owner's own preferences with Sure, with some work it can and will but that's not the point. The point is the experience of building knowing that you literally assembled It's about the experience and As I went through the build, I could of 3D printing and engineering as a And to be honest, I was no slouch before. Was it hard? No. I honestly can't say that it was, the instructions were so good. They made assembling IKEA furniture I mean, each step was clearly exact screw to use, and even in many might have at that step and how to I can honestly say that everything telling me exactly what I needed Because you see, as I mentioned before, my build I decided to do things a certain upgrades and certain configurations. So while the main Voron 2.4 PDF cut, step-by-step instructions do, It was only part of the story. Oh, you're going to print your There's a separate guide for that. And you wanted to add the upgrade That's definitely gonna Phaetus Rapido hotend? You're gonna need two supplemental Klicky probe? That's gonna be another guide. And this one is nowhere near as Oh, and wait, did you say LDO kit? That's gonna be a separate guide for the way with unique aspects of that tell you what parts of the original plus, uh, you get the idea. All this is well and good. I mean, I'm glad that there are and configurations, and yeah, figuring of building your own custom Hot Rod. But unfortunately, there's not very much from one guide to the next, or if, for In fact, I didn't even realize that some addendum and erota page on LDO's website followed the wrong guide for that area. Now, I'm not sure what the Perhaps Voron's team could simply like a choose-your-own-adventure use the stealth burner instead, directly to page xx once completed, or perhaps someone out there can LDO and stealth burner specific. Though, in the interim, I would upgrades you're going to do so that you Then I suggest reading through all yourself right on there to indicate over to another supplemental guide. Look, I know you're not actually gonna do despite many people recommending it, but All in all, I really enjoyed this wish that the entire build process confusion-free as the main guide itself. So Voron team, LDO team, if would be my recommendations. All right, gang. I know that in the past you've all up these longer videos, so I want to So with that, I'll be back next week including wiring, electronics, software, tuning and of course, how to avoid some cost me time, attention, and filament. Plus, we'll actually fire this Please make sure that you are not only icon so that you're notified when next in the comments if there are any questions cover those in some future videos as well. Until next week, thanks for