Well, my name's Courtney. I'm 40. I live in, South Carolina. My. I have a husband and two children. We love the outdoors. We love hiking. I was overweight about 20 to 30 pounds overweight And I think that that really. Kept me from being really, really being able to notice, issues that were going on because they were very subtle and, it was actually an about, that I started like in December, where I was probably just the heaviest Like maybe close to 40 pounds overweight. And, started to notice that my belly was I thought, I really need to I need to start, exercising every day And, so I did, I, I took I started changing a lot of habits. I completely stopped drinking alcohol. That was something that I said. Well, I know that this is probably So I think I started, like, dry January, January 15th, and I just kept going and, you know, was able to exercise Better things for myself. And, just started having, like, an eight, you know, just like in March or April started having these, like, random pains all over my stomach. It was really hard to explain So when I told my husband about them, he was he would get a face like, And I'm like, oh, it's okay. I mean, it might be ovulation pains. It might be just like indigestion or something. I was taking naps every afternoon. I would go lay down And like I said, I think I would have been, maybe I would have Why am I taking a nap every day? But just kind of laying down Just feeling like I needed to rest. My husband did contact a friend of ours Courtney's I think at that point And so this is about April of 2023. So I would have constipation and then and even that just It was just like, and I'd And I mean, I would spend I mean, I'd spend like an hour kind of just waiting for something we thought maybe I had an ulcer. I don't know if I mentioned that yet, Maybe it was just And that's what we thought the pains were we were just kind of treating And I would take it here and there. And then it would also alternate, like if I wasn't taking miralax. It would alternate And then when I finally was able to go, it'd be diarrhea What is that? And I even I remember asking, like, can you be constipated And somebody was like, no. And even though I was actually well, And then go about my day and, or just that There wasn't really an explanation for it. I've since googled it. And ovarian cancer does come up sometimes, but not always. So then I started. So that was, April and I think at the end of April was I think I am going to try to see a doctor I couldn't get there with my doctor So I said, okay, that's fine. Like, I don't think it's a big deal. I'm just going to be monitoring Keep a little journal. And also what I was eating and, then early June, I and and then they did continue on. Just continued to be somewhat mild. Early June, because I have, an implant, inflammatory and a doctor ordered me a CT scan, hopefully the CT scan will also show something in my upper GI tract. So, you know, because if you're the stuff happening, We noticed that you were you were severely And I thought I was going to show and then we'll we'll be able to treat it. And it did show something, but it did not It showed something called a Siamese, around like the liver. And I think that that was actually and causing my, So all that was And they also found a, what they called a mediastinum lymph node that appeared swollen and reactive. It we didn't find out We didn't find out till the end of 2023 that it was actually a tumor called a di MoMA. But we never got to find out what it was, because it was in such a weird space biopsy it. But that was enough to trigger the radiologist to say, hey, recommend she gets a, pelvic and abdominal ultrasound. And and they were probably thinking Well, all I could ever find when I googled was either cirrhosis of the liver, Like, how could that? Could that be me? So I didn't drink that much. And and then also, cancer and, I couldn't find any other any happy explanations And so all this, I was still kind of and he's kind of guiding us through it this is something that, you know, Figure out. Do you try to figure it out? But it's probably not an emergency, So, we went to so shortly after that, my symptoms I started losing my appetite. Well, and it really wasn't even so much that as it just whenever I did eat, my stomach hurt Like, it just. I'd have to go through all this ordeal of, feeling constipated and not being able so I just didn't want to eat. So I just that, Thankfully I did, because, talking to doctors was not very easy I felt like I needed had recommended. Shortly after that, I started losing a pound a day. And, so every day I'd wake up And then I called my doc, my primary care physician on the phone and said, This is where I am now. I really do feel like I, you know, and I'm The ultrasound still a couple weeks I really feel like I need a CT scan. You know, is there any way And he said, well, without having seen you. So I'm going to get you in So he got me in with another doctor, and we sat down And I'm sorry there aren't more symptoms, on, you know? It was just it was just this scary CT scan that made me and made me think, I don't think an ultrasound to get me to get the ball Because that from that CT scan I had basically already But, you know, So but it was just and then comparing it and it was clear that this was it was textbook. Advanced high grade serous ovarian cancer. Two days later, I get a Pet scan that says all this stuff about uptake volume, and there's just tumors All of them, vascular. And, you know, that's what cancer is. When things are pulling blood that aren't supposed to be there. And the following Monday was, a laparoscopic surgery to get a biopsy. And, pap report came back the same day. It's high grade serious. So three days later, in a chemo chair. I honestly don't think that I have had the ability, the ability to, process the fact that I have cancer. Like, I don't feel like I've had time. Front line treatment ovarian cancer is pretty straightforward. I couldn't find anybody with any other kind of treatment. You get six total. Well, there's one variation, therapy, and taxol and, you might do anywhere from 2 to 4 cycles and then have a surgery Some people have more cycles. I guess it's that their tumors are to the chemo. Or some people get what's called primary bulking surgery, And my doctor There are so many. Like, I really would recommend people get a second opinion because I think a lot of people oh, if they get that first surgery, well, you want your initial surgery You want to make sure but there's not necessarily Like, you have to get it done Because if they had done if they did surgery first, he said, the tumors are so big, your bowels and all this that if I try to do surgery You might have to have a colostomy bag, which I don't want that. So he wanted to do chemotherapy before we did a surgery. So we just went right ahead with chemo. So chemo was. They start you out with Benadryl So that knocks me. So even though I would bring a whole backpack I would really just fall asleep My husband was with me at, almost every single chemo. He would have been there But, I gave my dad one So they each got and, that's that's really hard. Like, you know, I just for them, I mean, I wish that they didn't have to go through this. I mean, and they wish that It's very easy to get bitter about it. And angry and frustrated. Especially now My last chemo was November 10th, and I think I'm still dealing with, effects of it. Chemo, And then I really just feel fine and then, on day three, I was in bed all day, and, the feeling bad would link So cycle one, it was like three days. Cycle two was four. Until by the end and not necessarily very foggy. And like in my brain fog Only on. I forgot about that. That was for real. So I would take baths and like, just kind of soak and try to, ease some of the pain in my legs. And actually walking would help, too. And that was something that we had to, we had to remember and my husband had to help me, like, And, you know, And he's like, remember, walking helps. And so he would have to come make me Then after three cycles, my tumors were so responsive Like they shrunk up so fast. And, so I had to stop in the middle and there was barely They mainly just took, my, my reproductive organs, which I was really disappointed I am 40, but we had been and I was. Yeah. And I was 40 when I had surgery. We had been trying to have more children So that was very disappointing. Because there was part of me that thought, can I keep my reproductive organs have, just one, 1 or 2 more babies and then maybe if there's a recurrence that's still something But, I mean, I do know that there'd be much greater chance of me And, so and removing those, I'm We also found out that I had the Brca1 gene mutation, excuse me, which meant that, I have, so they don't want to put me on therapy or anything, but I think I was cancer free for ovarian cancer. After three cycles of chemo And then I did three more cycles of chemo. But, like, yeah, I'm just so grateful the female reproductive system is so mysterious to doctors. And and it should be. I mean, and I think that we really do. We really can put a lot of trust of things to just say, well, So I'm going to keep pursuing something, And unfortunately, and a lot of understanding that not if we do have access to not give up researching on their own Oh, it's probably nothing as an answer probably nothing. Now, I don't think I could have by doing that, but maybe a little earlier. The advice I give to people myself is to just say, okay, they put these these, schedules, based on all they know, So it you should be pretty good to go And, you know, in between and talking to them then you don't have to. Well, You have to say, It's you have to answer these questions right now, if I get a scan done right is that going to have And that can be something Sometimes they don't answer that. Like sometimes you can't really access Some of them are doing the very best And I mean, I don't think that's just it's really frustrating. But I do think that ultimately the timeline that they've created, We want to make things just go away We think. We think we're making things better. I'm making all the suffering go away, but I do I do think that that that suffering Whatever part we play in it, but I think it is ultimately good. And to just say, okay, just try and only deal with that. And not everything else, not everything all at once, you know what I mean? Just whatever you're being dealt right Just do this one part And don't think about that.