Twist this when you lower it. I'm RYOURI, a cook. This time is the supreme series. This is the second video. So I'm drunk. This time I cook Western food. It's pasta. I'm good at making pasta because I cooked Italian food. Everyone wants to know how to make tomato sauce pasta. The difficulty of making tomato sauce is high. I have a lot of consultations about tomato sauce pasta. I make tomato sauce hundreds of times. I make the most delicious tomato sauce pasta. There is a prototype for this. Garlic and tomato pasta from a restaurant called Capricciosa. I love this. A recipe for tomato sauce that incorporates my elements based on that. I cook pasta dishes with garlic and tomatoes. RYUJI's buzz recipe. I will explain the ingredients first. This time it's very simple. This is a canned tomato. Either whole tomatoes or cut tomatoes are acceptable. I recommend whole tomatoes. The difference between whole tomatoes and cut tomatoes is the variety of tomatoes. The whole tomato variety is the San Marzano variety. It often uses something different from the dice tomato varieties. This depends on the type of canned tomatoes. San Marzano varieties tend to be sweeter. Canned whole tomatoes called Montebello have the weakest acidity and are the most delicious. This time I will use the one I bought at the supermarket. This is a crushed and finely divided one. Onions are a quarter. This is about 50 grams. I use 4 pieces of garlic. The point this time is how to use garlic. Prepare 4 pieces of this. But you won't mind the scent of garlic. This is pasta. This is 1.6 mm. It needs to be boiled for 7 minutes. I think medium-thick noodles are more suitable for tomato sauce than thin pasta. Seasonings are listed in the summary section. I start. This time is the supreme series. Important thing in making the supreme tomato pasta. The origin of tomato sauce pasta is Italy. I want to feel the Italian breeze. I think you can feel the Italian breeze with wine. I want to drink wine while thinking about Italy. I drink this and think of Italy. This is easy to drink. I drink this. This white wine goes well with tomato sauce. This is like grape juice. I enjoy cooking while drinking wine. I cut the ingredients. I crush canned tomatoes enough. This is a crushed one. Do it like this. This time I'm using cut tomatoes, so I'll crush them a little. For whole tomatoes, be sure to put them in a container and do this. Then I cut the onions. I slice the onion into thin slices. Important things in making tomato sauce. According to the Italian recipe, there is also a tomato sauce made only with whole tomatoes. Adding onions alleviates the sourness of tomatoes, which is a taste that Japanese people like. This time, I prepared 4 pieces of garlic. I make this in two different ways. I crush this. And cut this like this. This time, tomatoes and garlic are the main characters. This is not so detailed. On the other hand, I peel this like this. I rub this down. This time I use chopped garlic and grated garlic. The reason for doing this. This dissolves in the tomato sauce. Doing so will improve the taste of it. This is used for scent. This is used to season tomato sauce. The point is to add flavor and aroma with just one garlic. If you do this, the taste will change drastically. I start. From here on, it's a delicate task. Those who are accustomed to cooking may boil the noodles at the same time. For those who are not used to this time, I make tomato sauce first. Unlike noodles, tomato sauce does not change. It is important to make tomato sauce first. Olive oil. This time I use extra virgin oil. There are two types, extra virgin oil and pure olive oil. Pure olive oil is the second squeeze. Extra virgin oil is the first squeeze. Extra virgin oil has a better scent. This time I use extra virgin oil. I put this in about 1 tablespoon here. This time I only use extra virgin oil. I put the chopped garlic here. I first heat this over medium heat. This is the most important. You should be careful about this. When making peperoncino, fry it without burning. But I burn this a little. The scent is completely different between the one in this state and the one in the charred state. Italian food doesn't burn this so far. But this has to be charred. This is the supreme point. But this should not be burnt to the end. This is the color of the Shiba Inu. This is difficult so you should do this on low heat. It's almost in good condition. now. This color. And I put the onions here. The color of the garlic does not get darker because it is moist. I heat the grated garlic in the microwave for 40 seconds. By heating, the scent of garlic becomes weaker. I weaken the aroma of this and I want to put the taste of garlic in this. I use this cooking method. The onions are getting softer. The onions do not have to be charred. I put canned tomatoes here. You should choose canned tomatoes with less sourness. I use delicious canned tomatoes even when not heated. And I heat this over low heat. I put the grated garlic here. Since the garlic was heated in the microwave, there is no unpleasant odor. I season this. This is a consomme. I don't use any meat ingredients, so I use it to add an animal flavor. At that time, consomme is useful. Japanese people don't feel delicious without an accent on the taste. I put 1 teaspoon of sugar here. Whole tomatoes have a strong acidity, so I add sugar to them to give them a gentle taste. I put black pepper here. This is coarsely ground pepper. I put in about twice as much as you think. That's about it. I don't use chili peppers, so adjust the spiciness with pepper. I simmer this from this state on low heat for 5-8 minutes to sweeten it. This is delicious even in this state, but it needs sweetness because it contains garlic. In the meantime I boil the noodles. The water has boiled. I use a small pot because it's noodles for one person. I think there is a problem with the salinity of boiling noodles. This depends on the chef. 3%, 2%, 1%, different. I recommend 1 percent. It is to make it easier to adjust the taste of the dish. Add about 1 teaspoon of salt to this pan. You should not add too much salt. There is a chef who says, &quot;Boil it in a lot of hot water.&quot; I think it's okay if possible with less hot water. I don't use much boiled noodle soup in this dish. So it's okay to have less hot water. I boil this in hot water with a salinity of 1%. The tomato sauce is hard like this. When I mix this, I can see the bottom of the pot. The concentration of this is the taste of the eater. This is enough. You do not throw away the boiled noodle soup. Warm this over low heat. Put olive oil here. Be sure to add extra virgin oil here. I put this in a tablespoon 1 here. I add the fresh aroma of olives to the noodles and entwin the tomato sauce with the noodles. When the noodles and tomato sauce are hard, I put the boiled soup here. I put it in a teaspoon and half here. If water enters here, the oil content will decrease. Mix the pasta in a frying pan instead of frying. I serve this on a plate. How to serve this well. I lift the noodles halfway and put it on the plate. When I take it down, I twist it. By raising the height and serving it in this way, it becomes difficult for the noodles to cool. The noodles are warm and delicious until the end. And finally, add the tomato sauce. This completes the supreme tomato sauce pasta. I eat this. This goes well with wine. I eat this. The scent of this is perfect. This is the scent of garlic. I like this tomato sauce for the rest of my life. That's how delicious this is. The tomato tastes good. It doesn't contain meat. I do AJIHEN KUNG-FU-GENERATION. This is oregano. When this is added, the scent changes. I eat this. This is very delicious. This has a sense of quality. This is a Sicilian taste. This goes very well with wine. I eat another bite. I have one more thing I want you to do. It's grated cheese. This is the best. I put a lot of this. This is the best pasta. The addition of cheese to the tomato sauce has a high synergistic effect. Supreme tomato sauce pasta, how did you feel? I talked so much that I got drunk. SEE YOU NEXT TIME. Bye bye. This has a nice scent. This scent.