Welcome to my channel. Today I will show you how to revive a rotten orchid like this. When the orchid has withered all the leaves and only the stem and roots, do not rush to throw it away. Here the branches are still fresh I will remove all wilted and rotten leaves and I remove all the broken roots I keep only the fresh roots that are left over I cut off the flower stalk so that the orchid can concentrate nutrients for the new sprout to grow rinse with water Apply melted candle solution to the cut to prevent water from seeping into the tree. Use 3 cloves of garlic and mince Soak garlic in 1 liter of water at room temperature Incubate for 1 day At the same time, spread in a cool place for 1 day. 1 DAY AFTER filter out residue Soak orchid branches in garlic water for 20 minutes The rest of the water I will spray on other orchids to help protect the orchid from insects and fungi At the same time, garlic juice also stimulates the development of roots and flower sprouts very well 20 MINUTES AFTER After soaking for 30 minutes, plant. Using pine bark or dry pumice stone to plant will help absorb moisture in the roots, making the orchid roots not rot. Put in a cool place for 1 week without watering 1 WEEK LATER From now on, water the orchid to keep it moist Then put it in a place with a temperature of 20-25 degrees Celsius and avoid direct sunlight Regularly spray moisture to spread life and revive faster 2 WEEKS AFTER Use 3ml of GE Ginger water mixed with 1 liter of water GE ginger juice is considered an organic fertilizer that helps to stimulate plant growth very well Water this GE Ginger every 10 days Continue to place in a cool place and avoid direct sunlight Cover with a clear, vented plastic container and wait for the plant to revive. 1 MONTH LATER The roots have grown very well, so we fertilize the orchid with organic fertilizer as I have shared to make the orchid grow healthier Hope this sharing content will help you in resurrecting weak orchids to grow again If you find it interesting, remember to click like, share and subscribe so that my channel will soon reach 1,000,000 subscribers. The video I have created many subtitles, you can choose the appropriate language to understand my sharing. welcome to my channel, Today I share with you an amazing organic fertilizer, And anyone can do it easily. Just 1 to 2 ripe bananas, And the orchid garden will bloom all kinds of flowers. Now I will revive this orchid with new flowers, You've seen this orchid lose all its flowers, leaving only withered branches And here are the withered orchids that have been revived with lots of new flowers. STEP cut off the withers Apply toothpaste on the cut This will disinfect and help prevent rot Don't throw away banana peels when eating bananas Use 1 to 2 ripe banana peels Clip the banana peel to the place where the flower buds can grow and note to remove after 6 hours This helps to create the right moisture, provide essential nutrients and stimulate flower sprouts, do this once a week STEP 2 Use a banana peel to wipe the top and bottom of the leaves, Helps eliminate insects, fungi, bacteria hiding on orchid leaves, and at the same time provide a part of nutrients through the leaves for orchids Orchids will be protected and will not be affected by yellowing and rotten leaves. After wiping, you will see green leaves, Orchids will photosynthesize better to increase resistance. STEP 3 1 liter of water Leave in a cool and dark place for 1 day AFTER 1 DAY banana juice is darker Use this absorbent cotton Clip a cotton ball where the flower buds can grow and note to remove after 6 hours This helps to create the right moisture, provide essential nutrients and stimulate flower sprouts, do this once a week STEP 4 Normally after 3-4 weeks flower buds will be formed and develop like this, With a flower sprout this big, there's no need to sandwich banana peels with cotton balls You will be surprised how amazing this is Don't forget to subscribe to see my next videos STEP 5 Add water to make 2 liters Water this banana for orchids once every 2-3 weeks Banana peel is rich in potassium, phosphorus and essential vitamins will promote the growth of orchid roots In particular, the potassium in banana peels stimulates flowering very well. In addition, you need to combine using other organic fertilizers for orchids, like manure made from soybeans, peas, fish poop... as I shared, Hope this sharing content will help you in taking better care of orchids at home then make sure the orchid will grow healthy and produce many flowers. welcome to my channel. Today I share a new way to help spread more roots, branches and flower buds. Join me in discovering this wonderful way to make organic fertilizer. To make this type of fertilizer you need 1 branch of ginger. After slicing, put into a glass jar. Then add 1 spoon of yeast. This is the yeast used to make bread. and add 1 teaspoon of honey. and 1 liter of warm water. Incubate in a dark place for 1 week. 1 WEEKLATER Take 3 tablespoons of fermented ginger solution. Add 1 liter of water. First Method Use cotton balls dipped in organic fertilizer solution from fermented ginger. Then place it in the places where you want to take root and sprout. After 6 hours, take the cotton out. Do it once a week. Method 2 If you want this branch to continue blooming. Then add cotton and clip it. After 6 hours, take the cotton out. Do it once a week. Method 3 If you want this button to continue growing flower buds. Peel off the protective film of the sleeping sprouts. This helps the buds grow faster. Apply toothpaste to the cut. This helps the cut heal quickly. Then stuff cotton into the button with this sleeping bud. After 6 hours, take the cotton out. Method 4 Use a fertilizer solution from fermented ginger after the leaves. Helps kill fungi and insects very well Cleaning the stomata helps orchids photosynthesize well. Method 5 Apply this liquid fertilizer to the base of the orchid. This type of fertilizer helps stimulate the growth of roots, branches and buds very well. Method 6 Spray the fertilizer solution from fermented ginger on the entire orchid. Supports nutritional supplementation through leaves very well. RESULT After 2 months, the sprouts and roots developed very well. The flower buds have also developed and are ready to bloom. The buds at the tips of the branches continue to grow and bloom. Sprouts also grow in leaf axils. Many branches grow on the same tree. The flowers bloom on the branches for up to 6 months before falling. The roots are likened to the soul of the orchid Orchids grow healthy thanks to healthy roots If the roots are healthy, the orchid will also grow many flower buds In this video I will show you how to make orchids grow roots and flower buds quickly You need 1 fresh ginger (about 50g) Cut ginger into small pieces put in a jar (recommended plastic jar) add 3 tablespoons sugar (any sugar will do) Add in 100ml of filtered water Add in 100ml of beer (any beer is fine) Cover and keep in a dark place for 1 month Open the lid once every 3 days to let the gas out 1 MONTH LATER The smell of GE ginger is fermented so it's very fragrant ratio of mixing 3ml GE ginger for 1 liter of water FIRST WAY Soak cotton balls in water mixed with ginger GE Place cotton balls soaked in GE ginger between the leaves Helps keep moisture and GE ginger stimulates rooting and flower sprout differentiation very quickly Change this cotton once every 3 days On normal days when the cotton is dry, you just need to mist it with water to keep it moist. WAY 2 Use this water to wash the top and bottom of the leaves, Helps provide nutrients through leaves, clean stomata, Eliminate harmful insects and fungi, help orchid photosynthesis the best Wipe the orchid leaves with GE ginger once a month so that orchids are best protected and developed WAY 3 Use GE ginger water to water orchids Yeast brewed from fresh ginger has the effect of stimulating sprouting, strong rooting, repelling insects, killing fungi, stimulating buds, and stimulating growth. GE ginger also helps orchids increase their ability to absorb nutrients from the fertilizer you fertilize them. Only do this 1-2 times a month Do not use too much will affect the growth of orchids SEE THE RESULTS After 1 week of use, new roots grow very quickly These roots will help the orchid absorb nutrients more easily and more Orchids grow well or not thanks to the photosynthesis of roots and leaves when the orchid is healthy, after the orchid branch blooms the last flowers, Then there will be new flowers that will continue to grow. With this simple way you can do it yourself to take care of orchids at home, at very low cost and convenience Hope the video content will help you take better care of orchids at home My videos have subtitles in many other languages for you to choose from.