Early morning in the dunes of Corralejo. I'm not fully awake yet, but it's worth getting up early. Bienvenidos on Fuerteventura. The Canary Island, which fascinates with its barrenness. Dry land framed by Caribbean beaches. The north of the island is the European Hawaii for surfers and attracts young people from all over the world. In the south, sun worshipers cavort on the beautiful beaches. But what else can you experience here besides water sports and sunbathing? Ariba. Goats play a big role on the desert island. We hike with them. And visit one of the largest camel farms in Europe. We get to know people who protect the nature of their island. And the traditional way of life of the majoreros, the islanders. Come with us to a very special Canary Island. Subtitle: WDR mediagroup GmbH on behalf of WDR Fuerteventura is the second largest island in the Canary Islands and is only 120 km from the African mainland. We find out why Fuerteventura is a mecca for surfers in the north of the island. In Betancuria we get to know old traditions. It's paradise on the endless beaches in the south. * Music * The desert is alive. That's such a big caterpillar. You have to look twice before you spot it. It's just so fascinating here. At the beginning you think, the big nothing. If you look closer, it's alive, there are so many small, beautiful details. You have to develop an eye for the details here. What makes this desert landscape so magical? That's what we want to find out. * Music * The golden sand consists largely of ground shells. Due to the east wind from Africa, the Calima, the landscape constantly looks different. (Radio presenter speaks Spanish) * Radio music * Fuerteventura has warm temperatures all year round. This makes the island extremely attractive, especially in our winter months. The oldest of the Canary Islands used to be lush green, similar to La Gomera or La Palma. Strong winds, drought and also deforestation have made the island so barren over the millennia. Today Fuerteventura is one of the driest areas in Europe. The volcanoes here have been extinct for over 3,000 years. In total, around 120,000 people live on the island. El Cotillo on the northwest coast is popular with surfers and known for its wild beaches. * Music * Here one surf spot follows the next. 300 sunny days a year and special wind and wave conditions ensure that there is almost always constant surf. In the old harbor there is a sculpture reminiscent of the former fishing town. Here the sculpture is waiting for the sailor, who will hopefully return. And I'm waiting for Andreas. It smells so great of the sea. Hello Hello. There she is. Nice, Andreas. That's something. We arranged to meet right in the most beautiful place. Andreas and I were... How many years ago now? 2014 was the last time we were here. ...already on the island. I didn't have much time. - The weather wasn't nice. Now we want to know it again. Now let's look at the north. Now let's take a nice look at the north coast. I'm happy. - Me too. Like me, Andreas is a native of the Black Forest. His love for surfing brought him to the island. That was in the early 1990s. And he stayed. It's really hot now. - It's really warm here, yeah. When there is a strong northerly wind, you are happy that it is so warm. Another nice restaurant. This is one of the pictures that is still left from back then. Unfortunately it has already faded. What else is going on with these pictures? It was financed by some people from Cotillo. Ie photographers, here was a tender for their pictures, which had to have a connection to the sea. They won awards and the beautiful ones stayed here. Nice idea too, right? - Yes, nice picture. * Music * The cubic houses of El Cotillo were once inhabited by fishermen. Even today, many majoreros still live here and there is almost no mass tourism. * Music * Our hike always goes along the north coast. They all call them North Shore here. Andreas, you have to be tough. No, that's just habit. Whoever can goes on black, I go on clay. Yes, it goes upstairs too. - But you're really... No, I just wanted to show the stones. The sharp stones bear witness to the birth of Fuerteventura, when the continental plates shifted. This caused the lava from the underwater volcanoes to rise to the surface. The primary rock is still visible today. Is that right... - Basalt. So, isn't lava? It is called lava when it is liquid, and when it is hard it is called basalt. Because we are on a volcanic island. Exactly. - It's great. * Music * You also say that nothing can be very much here. What do you mean by that? There's this standard saying, a lot of people who say, Fuerteventura, what do you want there, there's nothing there. I see it completely differently, there is a lot. Furthermore, this nothingness can be a total, beautiful thing. We all have way too much all the time. We have way too much input. That's why the eye likes to rest and have empty, open landscapes in front of it. Accordingly, so does the spirit. - Yes. * Music * Sand as far as the eye can see. It's a very special atmosphere. Fuerteventura was formed 20 million years ago. Wind and weather had enough time to shape the originally high mountains into small pieces. * Music * There are a lot of people who come here once and never again. But there are just as many Fuerte fans who keep coming back. They have been coming to their beloved island for 30 years. Of course these are also the surfers. Many even come several times a year. *Music* This is a search picture. When you look, you think, yes, the sea. Then you suddenly realize there are 20, 30 surfers outside. Getting into the water is difficult. Those who have made it can usually look forward to long and gentle waves on the North Shore. This is due to the volcanic reefs offshore. At the beginning, when you start lying down, it's already curling. Then you kneel, and at some point you stand up. Then it starts at the latest. Fuerte, as lovers call their island, is so popular with surfers because there is the right surf spot for every level. So everyone, from beginners to professionals, gets their money's worth. When surfing you have direct contact with the elements, with the water. When you can move in there, with this water, playing with the power of the wave, it's natural... You almost get goosebumps just talking about it. I already notice it. When you have a good wave, you get a release of energy. Nobody can ruin your day. There you are for the rest of the day... I can feel that feeling of happiness just by watching. When conditions are good, there's a lot going on on the North Shore. Then you realize that surfing is not just a sport, but also a whole way of life. Learning to surf at a surf camp for a week or two is very popular. If you are not untalented, you can stand on the board after a few days. Of course not like this professional. * Music * Bienvenido. Alfonso? - Si, Alfonso. Tamina. - Hola. How is it today? Wonderful. But that's actually every day. That depends entirely on you. - Every day? Beautiful. A day with the worst conditions can still be your best day if you catch the wave. Depending on perception. Enjoy, that is the meaning of life. You immediately get into the philosophy of life when you see a beaming surfer. Who immediately shows me a few dry exercises. Do it again. Where do you want to go with your hands? Uh. This is the way. And then move. -Yeah. You have to push against the ground. Press on the ground. Only legs and arms can move me. -Oh. Thank you so much. - It's a pleasure. It's almost difficult not to get infected and get on the board. But we are here to hike. *Music* Now comes the surprise. - Picnic. Surprise? I'm always up for that. Oh. - Then you cut this off at the top like this, the lid. Then you dig in, regardless of the losses. Now... The whole thing? Mh. Mh. Mh. Mh. Mh. Mh. This is a moment that you won't forget. With all your senses, the sun, the sea, this fruit. What do you think, is there a starry sky tonight? Well, look up. do you see a cloud? * Music * * Music * Today we look at highlights around Puerto del Rosario. E.g. a very special mill. Surfing is the theme in the small town of Lajares. In Corralejo we sail to the islet of Los Lobos. * Music * Fuerteventura is said to be the Canary Islands with the most beautiful beaches. In contrast to the sister islands, the sand is light almost everywhere. In addition to surfers, windsurfers and kiters also find the best wind conditions here. Speaking of wind. The name Fuerteventura is often translated with the Spanish words fuerte, strong, and viento, wind. So island of strong wind. The name probably comes from sailors who marked Forte Ventura on a nautical map in the 14th century. The word Ventura definitely has something to do with luck. Driving through the interior you can see how incredibly dry it is. On average it rarely rains for more than 14 days per year. Most of the time even less. Only a few plants such as cacti, spurges and agaves can cope with these desert-like conditions. Eerily beautiful, I would say. The landscape is very unwelcoming somewhere. But fascinating at the same time. And still that feeling when the car breaks down and you have nothing to drink. Nobody is there. Is bad. However, those who find this climate absolutely ideal are these island residents. We are invited to personally get to know what is probably the largest herd of camels in Europe. A few decades ago the Canary Islands camel was almost extinct. There are now 400 animals on Fuerteventura again. Thanks to this farm, which is part of the main zoo, the Oasis Park. The goal is to breed and thus preserve the local breed. This one is Fabio. Wanda, Taro, Paco. *Camel hum* Wow. What a sound. Oh, look, is it biting you? - It doesn't hurt, he's just playing. Oh, look. David, the veterinarian in charge, knows every animal and its characteristics. Together with the farm employees, visitors can get up close to the camels. They don't have to wear a muzzle here. Why is the camel the right animal for the island? This is a desert island. The animals have adapted to this climate. For them, this is the optimal place where they can show off their talents like in the desert. The camels roam free for several hours every day. Species-appropriate husbandry is important here. Look what beautiful eyes they have. And that mouth, you can't stand it. I love these noses. (David) They can even close their nostrils during sandstorms. I've always wanted to give kisses. The Canary Islands camel has only one hump and belongs to the dromedary family. They live primarily in the deserts of Africa. They used to be used here as work animals to carry things. Camels originally came to the island 5 or 6 centuries ago. They were primarily used to transport and cultivate the fields. Now we are trying to give them a new task in the present. This new job, yes, you heard that right, is to give milk. That's why all adult animals at DromeMilk Farm are female. The males live a little ways away in Oasis Park. That's interesting. Here the baby has to go to its mother and drink a little. Only then will she give milk and you can milk her. It doesn't work without a baby. Camel milk is extremely well tolerated, healthy and low in fat. A superfood, so to speak. Research into the production of this fine milk is carried out here in collaboration with universities. It is intended to be used to produce cheese and other products. The animals give up to 20 liters per day. We share the milk, right? Mom has enough milk for you and for us. Can I try the milk? - No, definitely not. This is unprocessed milk. This may not be tried for hygienic reasons. It smells very faintly of milk and not at all like camel. A bit like milk. It smells like milk. Very mild and like milk. Thank you for this experience. That was really something special. You are welcome to come back again. It's really nice to see how much respect you treat the animals with. Wow. Ah, the baby again. She wants to drink with her mom again. More milk. Yes, of course, you can understand that too. *Music* And I just love camels. I can't help it. This physiognomy, these eyelashes, this expression, this pride, this slight arrogance. Simply wonderful. From the camel farm it is only a few minutes' drive to the island's capital. * Music * About 1/3 of the islanders live in the largest city. It is the economic and administrative center. The sculptures are worth seeing. Typical of Fuerteventura, where there is a lot of outdoor art to admire. Many of these works are by the sculptor Miguel Cubas, who we will meet more often. The cruise ships dock here. Otherwise, tourists tend to ignore Puerto del Rosario because the city is not really a beauty. The majoreros are happy that they mostly have the city beach to themselves. There is street art to admire all over the city. Almost 50 paintings decorate the house facades. * Music * On the way into the hinterland we pass one of Fuerteventura's landmarks. This is a particularly beautiful example. The mills on Fuerteventura. Most are no longer used today. But they simply belong to the island. There are 2 types of mills, male, called Molino, which are round and have a pointed roof. They are stable, but not so flexible. The Molina, the female windmill, is different and is more flexible in the wind. Both served as grain mills until the 20th century. Then there are wind turbines that were previously used to pump groundwater out of the earth. Imported from the USA a good 100 years ago, they are still called Chicagos today. This Molina is the only one still in operation on Fuerteventura. Francisco Cabrera is the last miller on the island. Wind is its most important resource. For me, life in Fuerteventura is the greatest treasure and blessing one can have. Francisco still works like his ancestors did centuries ago. When the wind comes, everything has to be meticulously prepared. Because this is a very dangerous craft. The sails are extremely vulnerable. Especially the moment they are opened and moved by the strong wind. However, today of all days this is a long time coming. Francisco is a gofio miller. Gofio is an ancient flour typical of the Canary Islands, consisting of barley and corn. The grains are roasted in sand, as before. * Music * As soon as the steam is released, it surrounds the grain. This removes the moisture and turns the glucose into pure energy. That's why homemade gofio is so rich. It stays in the blood for a long time. If you eat enough of it, you won't be hungry for 12 hours. Gofio is one of the oldest staple foods in the Canary Islands. The Guanches, the indigenous people, already used it. * Crackle * Do you hear the crackle? This means that the moisture is now out of the grain. Francisco took over the mill from his parents. But it is much older, from 1846. To preserve the heritage, he set up a small museum. Here you can see what makes a Molina. It is at ground level. The grain does not have to be carried to the 1st floor. Back then, women could also do this work. For this reason this type of mill is called Molina, the female mill. Francisco is used to his work being dependent on the wind. Ie just wait. At some point he becomes restless. The wind could be here soon. Before the sails are set, everything has to be checked again. A little negligence can lead to accidents. Francisco always wears the traditional miller's clothing. If it gets caught and there is a gust of wind, the linen fabric will tear immediately. Was the optimism perhaps a little too early? I would say everything is going well. In 3, 4, 5 hours the breeze will get stronger. We can't wait that long. We keep our fingers crossed that the wind will come soon. Anyone can visit the Gofio Mill. * Music * * Sound of the sea * * Music * Lajares is the surfing town in the north of the island. *Music* It's all about the board here. People from 35 nations live in the village with around 2,000 inhabitants. Especially Italians, French, English and Germans appreciate the lifestyle. They live and work here all year round. * Music * (woman) We are all friends and come from Argentina. And here, Lajares? (Woman) International. (Woman) Yes, exactly, this is a surfing place. -Surf City. Gracias. You might ask yourself, what are you sitting out here on the street for? Cars drive by, etc. But that's how they do it here in Lajares. This is such a relaxed attitude to life. A lot of it is healthy, vegan, fresh. And just totally relaxed. This surfer feeling also impressed her, Paula from Munich. *Music* You feel free in some way. Maybe it's because you can always see the horizon. Paula has found her dream job in Lajares. She is a shaper and makes custom surfboards. The board is basically already shaped. The form is given. I laminated the whole thing to give it stability. And in the end, what you see here is the laminate. This is fiberglass soaked in epoxy resin. Now I'm sanding it so I can put a topcoat on it. Material, shape, design, everything is individually tailored to the customer's wishes. Precision craftsmanship is the be-all and end-all. But the trained tourism specialist first had to acquire it. In Munich I started repairing my broken surfboards on the balcony, which was more difficult than good. When she came to Fuerteventura in 2017 for a job at a surf school, she met her current boss. A shaper known beyond the island. He actually didn't want to have any employees. But Paula was so stubborn that he offered her training. I'm now mixing my epoxy resin. And with polyester the situation is that you only add a little bit of hardness as a percentage. And the epoxy has to be weighed to the tenth of a gram. Every resin molecule needs its hardener molecule. A science in itself. Depending on the ability and requirements of the customer, the board must have a different texture. As a shaper, Paula is quite exotic. There are very few. I don't know any personally. I think there's another girl in Spain who does that too. And in California and Hawaii, there are one or two. But it is a very male-dominated profession. I don't understand why either. But that's just how it is. I'm working here more than ever before because I've found a job that I enjoy. But of course it's a different feeling when you come out of work and you have the freedom. You are always immediately at the sea. That sounds really tempting. Even more surf crazy people in Lajares. Or those who still want to become one. Dry runs on the skateboard. You take the curve, lean in, relax. Then you use the momentum and go down. Kneel together, look at me. Where are your knees? This freedom, the simple life, is special in Fuerteventura. Just be happy with little. Alex has a surf school in Lajares. Before surfing, students should get a feel for movement and balance. It's similar with surfing and skating. Anyone who stands well on a skateboard automatically feels safer in the water. They've all had a week behind them and you can clearly see the progress. Most people are super scared on the first day, hold on tight. That's nice because learning success is faster than on a surfboard. On the first day it is difficult for many people. Many people don't skate every day. On the second day everyone is relaxed and notices that I'm having fun. It's fun. Actively engaging in the corner. *Music* Most of these guys have never been on a skateboard before. So also suitable for beginners. * Music * Alex takes me on a boat tour. Yes, hello. Want to take a ride? Absolutely. Surfboard shouldered, all clear. Good. - Very much. * Music * How long have you been here? - Now 17 years old. And why? Good question. I ended up here and got stuck. So the classic. Alex came to the island after studying sports science . Actually for a few weeks. He is now married and has a daughter. Only sometimes does the Siegerlander miss the green. But you have to like that, this very strictness. Nice tidy emptiness. A harsh paradise. But at home in my garden I created a tropical forest. I have crocus palms and banana trees in the garden, that's different. I created the greenery as an oasis at home. That's natural... Are you a gardener too? - Yes. So are you a surfer and a gardener? - Exactly. I also write books. - Do you also write books? I can't keep up with everything you do. Obviously this is a climate that favors this. - Yes. From Lajares it is 20 minutes to Corralejo. This is the main tourist town in the north of the island. * Music * Alex has his sailboat in the harbor. Alex, where are we going? This is downtown Corralejo. Down the road to the harbor. You can already see the sailing boats behind there. - Yes. * Music * While Alex is getting the boat ready, I look around the old town. Until the 1970s, Corralejo was a small fishing village with a few houses. There are still idyllic corners in this part of the city. Otherwise, tourism has the place firmly in its hands. Here too there are surf shops on every corner. But this store seems to be about something else. About sustainably produced clothing and accessories. What is the Clean Ocean Project all about? What exactly is it about? Our goal is to protect the sea, the waves and the coast. We fight against plastic waste pollution. The Clean Ocean Project is an initiative that supports the environment on Fuerteventura. Part of the work involves setting up "Playa Pallets" along the way. I have no idea who picked this up. But someone always finds trash on the beach and dumps it. As I was emptying this pallet, I met a man who said he goes for a walk every morning and always has trash for the pallets. There are now over 30 Playa Pallets on the coast. They are emptied and recycled regularly. The even bigger problem, however, is microplastics. It inevitably enters the food chain. The fish eat it; sometimes their stomachs are so full that they can't eat any more. Laerke and Wim work with other organizations that protect the oceans across Europe. If we want this to stop, we will have to rely much more on products made from hard plastic in the future, for example, that can be used again and again. The initiative aims to raise awareness among island visitors about Fuerteventura's nature. Their work is funded through stores like this. *Music* Yes. - Welcome. Hello. - Welcome aboard. Perfect. Such a nice shuttle here. Edu brought me here well, and now I'm jumping out of there, or what? We did it there, very well. Welcome aboard. I'm impressed, this is a catamaran. Edu, thank you very much. Bye. What a service. So, come help me. We want to leave. Is clear. - The command is cast off. Hello, I'm Tamina. And you? Oh, you don't speak German? - No, sorry. What are you saying? -English. English, of course. Are you from here? - No, I live in New Zealand. New Zealand. Hi, I'm glad. Great crew here. (Alex) So, let's get it all going up there. Next, cast off. * Music * The destination is the islet of Los Lobos, which is less than 3 km from Corralejo. There are various providers who offer tours there. Please hold on. - It doesn't have a railing at all. Here you go overboard, there is no railing here. You have to hold on tight here. Alex is very proud of his catamaran, which is from Polynesia. The special thing about it is that there is not a single screw. Everything is connected with ropes. This makes the boat very flexible in waves. We'll now hang the red rope here, which is what you wanted to do earlier, at the back. 1, 2, 1, 2, up, hop. (whoops) *Music* Nice. - So simple. Very good. 1st step completed. Sails set. This catamaran was Alex's dream. He discovered it on the Internet and then transferred it from Sicily to Fuerteventura. It survived a Mistral with 5 m waves unscathed. You have everything you need. Exactly, this is an outdoor grill that is powered by gas. Can you put fish in it? This is the main power supply. These are 24 volt panels that provide electricity. We have a large freezer, freezer. The boat is completely self-sufficient. Very exciting boat. The ferry is now running behind there. You can also take it to the island of Lobos. * Music * Los Lobos is named after the sea lions, the Lobos Marinos, that used to live here. Because nature is particularly protected, no more than 200 people are allowed on the island per day. You have to register in advance. The crystal clear lagoons are said to be some of the best snorkeling areas in the Canary Islands. Be sure to bring diving goggles. * Music * The few huts belong to locals who come for the weekend. Otherwise, Los Lobos is uninhabited. The volcanic origin is visible inside the islet. A hiking trail leads to the highest elevation, the volcanic cone La Caldera . Even if you don't think it, over 130 different plant species grow here. If you are on holiday in Fuerteventura, you should not miss a trip to Los Lobos. The crossing takes 20 minutes. So, Alex, knife here. Now everything is out of your garden. Of course we have the bananas. - The little beautiful ones. Canary bananas. And now here passion fruit. -Oh. My house is overgrown with passion fruit. This is a single hedge with passion fruits. Mh. And it has great acidity, right? - Yes. What colors. And everything is home grown. Okay, Kiwano. You can also grow them in Germany. Is that sweet now? You'll see. Oh. You can't get it together. You have cucumber or melon. Right in between. - This is a melon cucumber. Tastes like melon, but also like cucumber. * Music * Alex says that the strait between Corralejo and Los Lobos is a special spot for surfers. The longest wave in the Canary Islands breaks here. As you know, I am a passionate surfer. These are recyclable surfboards. Wow. From what? This foam core is yellowish because it is made from recycled packaging material and mixed with wood fibers. Alex wants to surf the wave that sometimes breaks forever. I am excited. Take the wave with you. TOI Toi Toi. Have fun. Alex doesn't miss the opportunity to give it a try, even if the conditions aren't good today. But when the wave builds up like this, it can be up to 500 m long. After sunset we are back in the nearby dunes of Corralejo. Here we have arranged to go stargazing. This is the planet Jupiter. In addition to Jupiter, we see other planets, millions of stars and shooting stars. I warmly welcome you to the dunes of Corralejo. Here in the darkness of the dunes we are far enough away from the city lights. The Canary Islands in general represent an important window into the universe. This is because here we can see the entire Northern Hemisphere and a large part of the Southern Hemisphere. Fuerteventura is one of the best places in Europe for stargazing. This is due to the clean atmosphere and low light pollution. That's why UNESCO declared Fuerteventura a Starlight Reserve in 2015. *Music* Take a look here. You should be able to clearly see the 13 rings that surround Saturn. 13 rings? Yes, but you perceive it as a single closed body surrounding the planet. Yes. That looks like... That looks like a painting. This really looks like a picture. You can see the ring very clearly. Saturn is close to Earth at the moment, which is why we can see it so well. You're in luck, it's one of the best planets to observe because you can see its characteristic features. Do you see something? There are 2 stripes in the middle. Is that the ring you mean? Not quite. We look at Jupiter, and what you see are storm bands. A cloud system surrounding the planet. You can't see the surface itself, only the cloud system around it. The telescope magnifies so much that a layperson can easily see the planets and stars. Really great to have the constellations and planets explained in more detail. But the sight alone is a spectacle. * Music * Today we take a tour to Betancuria, the old capital with colonial history. In Pajara we meet the most famous sculptor in Fuerteventura. Then we go to the pirate caves of Ajuy. * Music * Anyone who rides a bike here will feel it in their legs. Fuerteventura is only very sparsely populated in relation to its size. There's something special about driving through this barren landscape. * Music * * Music * These are the last two native kings. Guise and Ayose looking over their island. They ruled in troubled times when the island was attacked by conquerors. In 1404, the explorer and Norman privateer Jean de Bethencourt captured Fuerteventura. The kings and people surrendered in the face of the military superiority of the attackers. * Music * Betancuria is the most historically important place and lies in a fertile valley. It's greener here than anywhere else on the island. This is Fuerteventura with Los Lobos, the small island. Lanzarote looks so beautiful. That has to be Gran Canaria. Tenerife with the Teide. La Gomera, where we were recently, is very beautiful. La Palma, all green, and El Hierro, the small one. Betancuria was the capital of Fuerteventura until 1835. The conqueror Bethencourt, after whom the place is named, believed he was safe from pirates in the interior of the island. There was also plenty of water here. In 1593 Betancuria was taken by pirates and completely destroyed. The current buildings therefore date from the 16th century because the place had to be rebuilt. * Music * Today tourists come to the town for a day trip to explore the historic streets. The island artist has immortalized himself here again. Indeed, Miguel Cubas Sanchez. There are several sculptures of him here on the island. Here he probably picked up on people's everyday lives. So now it's time for a Canarian specialty. Here comes your Barraquito. My barman made it for you. Are you the bar man? -Yes. - Okay. Liqueur 43, black coffee, cafe au lait, milk foam, cinnamon and lime. Oh God. Now you have to destroy the work of art. Barraquito. You definitely have to try it here. But maybe if you don't have to do much after that. A stone's throw from Betancuria lies this village with the promising name Vega de Rio Palmas, floodplain on the palm river. There used to be a river here in the valley. Agriculture was practiced on the terraced fields. This Chicago mill wheel no longer pumps water out of the ground. There are a few animals living on this small farm. You can also smell that there are sheep at home here. Vegetables and herbs are also grown. Auxi is the soul of the small farm. She was born here and shows me around her self-sufficient garden. Here we have our passion fruits. The top ones are still a little hard, but the bottom ones are almost ripe. We use them to make our passion fruit yoghurt. Look, that color. Passion fruit. Oh, and the scent. Bueno. A bit sour again. Perfecto. You can eat them with a spoon. Do you like her? Delicious, right? Everything on the farm is farmed organically. The chickens, for example, get fruit scraps to peck at. Vamo. * Music * The eggs, the herbs, everything that is grown here is processed in the restaurant's own kitchen. The chilies grow particularly luxuriantly. They and the coriander are important ingredients for the famous Canarian sauce. Pequenas? - No. (laughs) They're hot, aren't they? Solo... We use these for the mojo and for the shrimp in garlic. Uh. Mh. Then Auxi disappears into the kitchen and does her magic authentic Majorero dishes, typical dishes of Fuerteventura. In any case, there is no skimping on olive oil and garlic here. Real country cuisine. *Music* Tada. Mojo rojo, mojo verde. - Oh, mojo rojo, mojo verde. Ribs. Ribs with potatoes and corn. - Ahh. And our Canary Islands potatoes. - Papas arrugadas. Wrinkled potatoes, typical. Thanks. Now a test of courage. Cool. So, everyone who has anything to do with me today may forgive me. This is garlic. Wow. There is a sculpture garden nearby in the middle of nowhere. * Music * Art is part of this location. Event catering in the desert. Concerts sometimes take place here on Sundays. The artists come from the island. Some of them are internationally known. During the performance, guests can eat in the cozy corners of the restaurant. * Music * The initiator is Reiner Loos. The German photographer has lived on the island since 1992. Many of the visitors are regulars. You have created an oasis in the desert. That's totally green. That's the crazy thing. People come here, drive through desert, park here, come up the stairs and say, wow. That's fascinating. Then there's some great music too. - This is real... *Music* The Casa de la Naturaleza is surrounded by a large palm grove. However, things aren't going quite so well. Climate change has taken its toll on the formerly fertile valley. It used to be densely green. Now it has weakened more and more, so we said we will save this palm grove. And we will water it with water from a well that is behind the palm trees. We draw water from this well with a diesel engine and pump. And distribute all the water in pipes and all the way to the back of this area. Around 120 palm trees are watered there. Until a few years ago, the Canary Islands date palms grew without human intervention. Now they have to be artificially watered. The groundwater for this now comes from a depth of 60 m. The thick pipes go from here in all directions. On this side underground, along the Barranco, over to this side. Then we repeatedly built in branches so that every palm tree or every 2 or 3 palm trees can be watered by opening this tap. The palm trees are protected. Actually, it would be the responsibility of the responsible authority to irrigate them. Since nothing has happened so far, Reiner has taken the problem into his own hands. You see the first successes coming in the middle of the palm... Maybe you have seen before that these light, first green leaves are sprouting in the middle of the palm . You can always see here that the people of Fuerteventura care about their nature. And they try to preserve them in different ways. After a 20-minute drive through the vastness we come to Pajara. At the entrance to the town, various sculptures adorn the street. This is the home of Juan Miguel Cubas Sanchez, whose artwork we have encountered several times. * Saw whirring * Miguel Cubas is a real majorero. Fuerteventura gives me peace and the light is fantastic. Besides, I'm from here. This is where the legs for an oversized figure made of steel are being created. At the moment I'm working on a piece depicting a 3m tall girl playing with a kite. The entire sculpture will ultimately be 8 m high. The kite floats in the air, supported by its tail. A tribute to the Corralejo International Kite Festival, which brings kite fans from all over the world every year. * Music * &quot;From the volcano the lava, from the lava the stone, from the stone the art.&quot; * Music * Most of my works here on the island are figurative and realistic. They tell of the traditions of the majoreros, i.e. the traditions of the island of Fuerteventura. Cubas only discovered sculpture when he was 30 His father gave him this piece of land. He built a stone house on it and realized how great his passion for stone was. He has now largely taught himself the skills But I also like to merge contemporary with figurative art and create more forms that are not so realistic. Some of Cuba's artworks are also in France, Cyprus and Germany * Music * In the Pirate Bay I meet Andreas Caliman again. Many day tourists come here, also because there are a number of myths surrounding Ajuy. Pirates are said to have hidden their loot in the nearby caves. This rock formation looks impressive yes already out. Even if there weren't necessarily pirates living in there. They are the oldest cliffs in the Canary Islands. The rock formation that you can see at the bottom is the &quot;basal complex&quot;, which can really only be seen here, nowhere else in the Canary Islands in this form. The basal complex is the island base that was formed by underwater eruptions 70 million years ago. Parts of this basal complex were pushed up millions of years later by the movement of the earth's plates. That's why Ajuy is also a mecca for geologists. The history of Fuerteventura's origins can be clearly seen in the different rock layers . Sponge structures, are petrified beaches, fossilized beaches. They are also called upscale beaches, Playas Elevadas, because there was a lot of upward movement with the volcanism. But in this case it's more like the ice ages. Between the ice ages, the sea level was up to 60 m higher than it is today, and there was the beach up here. Because of the unique rock formations, the area has been declared a national nature reserve. I imagine it goes deep down around the Canary Islands. How should you imagine that? Ultimately it is a large volcanic massif. Ultimately, all 7 Canary Islands are a volcanic massif. Ultimately, Macaronesia, as all the islands along the Central Atlantic Ridge are called, is a chain of volcanoes. Is the longest on the planet. And what sticks out of this volcano is just 5% of its actual mass. We are on a peak. We stand on one of many peaks. * Music * Here we go towards the cave. - Look, things are really opening up here. These are they, the pirate caves of Ajuy. Even though they are called that, there is no evidence that the pirates hid their loot here. What is fairly certain, however, is that they disembarked in Ajuy and from here began their forays into the interior of the island. * Music * Today we visit a goat farm near Ajuy where cheese is made. Afterwards we even go hiking with goats. At Pozo Negro you go to an aloe vera farm. * Music * I like life in Fuerteventura. It's quiet, I can live in the country here, enjoy the landscape and the animals. Raico's goats are Majorero goats, a breed native to Fuerteventura. They are fed corn so that they can go to the milking parlor. This breed of goat is known for producing a lot of milk of particularly good quality. Thick, aromatic and fatty. One of the most important secrets why Majorero cheese is so popular. Fuerteventura is also called the Goat Island. The reason is simple, there are as many goats as there are residents. There are said to be more than 100,000. (whistles) Vamo. What I like about goats is that each of them is different. They are humble and good-natured. Some have their own character, like us humans. Just like us, they can have a bad day. They have their way, but they are good. Goats have been an important source of livelihood for majoreros for centuries . The domestic goat is a real survivor. It is perfectly adapted to the harsh conditions and can still find something to eat even in the seemingly plant-free landscape . Raico dreamed of making his own cheese since he was a child . The young cheese master learned the craft from his grandparents. We refine the cheese with olive oil and gofio, gofio made from corn. This cheese is also suitable for people with gluten intolerance. Gofio is very typical in the Canary Islands. The delicate Majorero cheese now enjoys national and international fame. This is rubbed with paprika. Everyone has their own recipe. I think the secret lies in the island itself, in the special conditions. All cheese producers here make cheese more or less the same way. The real secret is our climate, our goats and our tradition. Not all at once, please. - Ui, no, eieiei. (whoops) She jumped on the table here. * Music * At the beginning it's always a huge mess. It's like going for a walk with a school class. Therefore, it's exciting. After a while it gets quieter. This is yours. Rambo. - Like Rambo? Wow. Yes, hello, Rambo. His name is Rambo? Really now? - Yes. Kristina goes on goat hikes. You're the mother goat, you always say. - Yes. I don't know much more exactly. We are all very excited to see what happens next. Everyone gets a goat, right? - Everyone gets a goat, exactly. I also have more corn. The goat migration begins. At the beginning, each participant first has to get a feel for their goat. And vice versa. Things aren't going well between Rambo and me yet. It works with Namjam, but then... Look, the others are already ahead. Come on, we can do it. Come on, Rambo, it's going to be great. (calls) Wait for us. All right, Rambo, it's going to happen really quickly. Hey, hey, hey. Wow, ugh, ugh. Oh, oh, oh. Rambo has taken the lead. So, now come with me here. Namjam. Look if you show him the corn and lift your arm. Arriba. With the big one it's a really nice thing. He's bigger than you. I started like that too 7 years ago. I had no idea about goats. But I've always been a big animal lover and learned with the two big ones what the Mah family would like. I started with Rayo and Nube. A native breed of goat, Cabra Majorera, is what it is called here. They showed me what a goat likes. That's something to eat. Even plants with spines are no problem for them. Rambo, Namjam, Rocky. (whistles) Come on, Rambo, come on. Come, come, come. Junior. - Junior. Pintas, yes, he has a move. But look, Rambo, sometimes a little reserved. But now he's also... Not the nearest bush. We'll do it with everyone else. * Music * Come on, everyone go this way, you go this way too. * Goat bleating * You can take credit for getting such a big goat. Do you see that right at the beginning when you look at the people? I know when you get out of the car I'll know what kind of goat you are. Really? Seriously? Now I have to think about it. Where is my Rambo? Good. Then we have the big, quiet, pulling one. What kind of character do we have here? The Nube is shy. It doesn't need that much Halligalli. She needs a loving hand. Someone who isn't so rude when talking to her. If there's a macho guy on her leash, she won't go any further. * Music * (Kristina whistles) Then we have reached our destination. You can fix it here. Have you built a relationship over time? - Yes, yes. We are on a first name basis. I can tell it's eating out of your hand. Well, the oil is from here. Like all other products available at the picnic. That's what Kristina's tours are all about, showing guests a piece of authentic Fuerteventura. Hello. Gracias. - Thanks for participating. Yes, great experience. Thanks. Hello. Hm? Yes, yes. You dear. You're really friendlier. Oh. Oh. Hiking with goats, picnicking with goats. This is really a great experience. Well, Rambo, you did well. It was nice. Now I eat the cheese myself. *Music* This is Aurora. She is the third generation to run this farm. Over 2,000 aloe plants grow in the fields. This is the Barbadensis Miller variety. This is the most common on the island. The undemanding plants thrive particularly well on sandy soils and in the hot climate. In addition, they hardly need any water. The aloe vera plant grows from the inside out. The outer leaves are the oldest. You can harvest them. The gel is extracted from them. I'll cut it off here. Aloe vera is one of the oldest medicinal plants in the world. It contains valuable vitamins, enzymes and minerals in high concentrations. Oh, look now. Very cool and soft and soft, a bit like cucumber. The cultivation of the desert plant is now, along with goat farming, one of the most important sources of income in agriculture. Aloe vera is not a cactus as most people think. It is a lily plant, like the onion, from the same family. Aloe is particularly good for burns and cuts and regenerates skin cells. This is the aloe vera gel that you can use for the whole body. Now I'll try it on my arm. Very cool and very soft and very slimy. Aurora and her family produce high-quality cosmetics from the gel. In general, aloe products are a bestseller on Fuerteventura. * Music * Animals from a neighboring sanctuary live on the organic farm. Solar panels generate the majority of the energy required. In 2020 , a dream came true for the family with their own permaculture garden . Working sustainably in agriculture plays a big role here. Guests can visit the farm, take a tour and taste the products. This is aloe vera juice ready to try. There's just a little lemon in there to preserve it. Otherwise it is 99.5% pure aloe vera. Cheers. We try. Tastes very healthy. It tastes healthy. It's not exactly wow, but you can imagine that it's good. It's good for you. Well, it's good for you. Gracias. Now we go to Jandia, that's the name of the peninsula in the south of Fuerteventura. Known for its miles of sandy beaches. Playa de Sotavento is said to be the most beautiful. We want to go into the sea. * Music * The east coast is well developed and rather built up. Holiday settlements are lined up one after the other. * Music * The special thing about this beach is that it changes completely with the tides. It's low tide right now. The way to the water with our stand-up paddleboards takes longer. Risco del Paso is a water sports paradise. Here you can do anything you want. Sometimes we have very strong winds. Then the kiters and windsurfers can go out to sea. The windsurfing and kiteboarding world championships take place every summer . The world's best surfers have been at their best here since 1984. * Music * The surfing elite compete in various disciplines such as freestyle, speed surfing and slalom. From the cracks to the complete beginners. * Music * How warm or cold is the water? Oh, it's warm. At low tide, a shallow lagoon remains on the beach. Perfect for beginners to get used to stand-up paddleboarding. Use your hips to push your body weight backwards. Then you simply move with the paddle. Easier said than done. This is the dynamic way to corner. The foot all the way back. And then around. weight backwards. Paddling technique, balance and holding the paddle correctly works quite well. Bali says we can dare now. Now let's try it in the waves. The most important thing is that the nose of the board points towards the waves. Then you create speed and you can catch the wave. Luckily there is almost no wind today. That's why we only have mini waves. * Music * If you catch a wave, it's actually a little easier with the SUP than surfing because you don't have to stand up anymore. *Music* That was great. It's an adventure with a SUP like this on the sea. Splendid. I still need the practice. It was a pleasure. I got a feeling for the sea and what it could be like. I'm glad you liked it. * Music * Today we continue on the southern peninsula of Jandia. In Morro Jable we find out what Willy Brandt has to do with the tourism boom in Fuerteventura. Then there's an adventurous trip to Punta de Jandia, the southernmost tip. * Music * The holiday apartments in the town of Jandia Playa have the beach right on their doorstep. The 3 km long promenade leads to Morro Jable. There he sits, Willy Brandt. With his pants rolled up, very casual, and his dog Bastian. Willy Brandt was here on the island for the first time in 1972, when Fuerteventura was not on many people's radars. After that you basically knew that you could go on holiday here. The then Chancellor found Morro Jable a suitable place to regain strength after a long illness. The isolation and the climate were so good for Willy Brandt that he spent his vacation here several times. His stays in the 1970s made Fuerteventura famous in Germany. Back then, Morro Jable was a tiny fishing village. There weren't even paved roads. Not a single stone or cliff interrupts the fine sandy beach. Nice for endless beach walks. * Music * The way to the end of the island is not exactly comfortable. From Morro Jable it is 20 km along an unpaved road. Honestly, you sometimes feel like you're on the moon here. Despite or perhaps because of this isolation, the route to the southern tip is popular with tourists. * Music * Only a few people live in the small fishing settlement. Some come from Morro Jable for the weekend. And some make the journey for a special specialty. This is said to be one of the best on the island. Wow. Eww. Mh. (both) Caldo de pescado. The famous fish stew, a specialty in Fuerteventura. Nice color. And? And how does it taste? Oh. Very good. You need a little help to eat the Caldo. Okay, so add the raw onion to the gofio and the mojo. And then, boom. Wow. Mm. Mm. Okay. Oh. Forte. -Forte. Muchas gracias. Okay, great. It's good that you can have things explained to you like how to eat this. This is the amazing fish stew with gofio and the raw onion and the mojo, and then it's really Canarian. The lighthouse at the end of the island dates from 1864. It shows ships the way to neighboring Tenerife. Soak up a lot of sun and warmth and light again. Here in the very south of Fuerteventura. An island that you really have to discover, but where you can find a lot in the nothingness. Adios and see you next time. Copyright WDR 2024