Billy the Kid's history was written New Mexico Territory's 1870's freedom fights are forgotten - the political cabal which seized executive, legislative, judicial, and law enforcement powers. But the Ring made a mistake by singling-out one self-named Billy Bonney - for national press He was so unforgettable, that he carried and truth's glare. The Santa Fe Ring began Stephen Benton Elkins They seized a loophole which ended the Mexican-American War, with the winning United States Though Mexican land grant owners they had to prove ownership to Congress. Elkins and Catron, became the grant owners' attorneys. Then they cheated them They kept it, By 1866, and law enforcement Catron's and Elkins's biggest They tricked Lucien Bonaparte Maxwell his two million acre Maxwell Land Grant, the legacy of his Taos heiress wife, Buying it for just six hundred thousand three hundred fifty thousand dollars - As co-bosses, Elkins went to Washington, DC - and made their federal network. Both amassed banks, mercantile outlets, mines, In 1870, Maxwell bought Fort Sumner, the military base for Bosque Redondo, for Navajos and Apaches, Making it a town, as his mansion, and herded sheep In eleven years, Billy Bonney there for love of his daughter, Paulita. In 1872, grass-roots anti-Ring rebellion Bills were passed to stop prosecutions to destroy Ring opponents. So Ringite Governor, to abort the bills, and began the Ring's branding In 1876, with a published and failed attempt to secede In 1877, In 1875, anti-Ring leader, In 1876, Ringite Governor S.B. Axtell prosecution of Tolby's murderers. In 1877, local heroine, Mary Tibbles McPherson, But Ring-protecting President In 1878, with Billy Bonney becoming and the Ring's target. Billy Bonney was born - as Henry McCarty on November 23, 1859, in New York City, with unknown maiden name - five years older. Catherine soon adding a William Henry Harrison Antrim Continuing westward, in 1873, Catherine married Antrim in Santa Fe, before they all settled in Silver City. Antrim became a miner, There violent-tempered Henry Smart, he also mastered Spencerian by attraction to local Chihuahua Catherine's 1874 left Henry cast out to homelessness by heartless Antrim. Working for a hotel and butcher shop, Henry turned to crime: then escalating, in 1875, with adult accomplice, Sombrero Jack, to robbing a local Chinese Sombrero Jack absconded, but Henry was jailed Facing ten years hard labor, fifteen year old Henry escaped He fled to Arizona Territory's Calling himself Henry Antrim, he worked as a cook in a small hotel; and joined an adult, named John Mackie, saddles, and blankets He also developed shootist skills. Captured in 1876, Henry and Mackie though Henry escaped through But he stayed in Bonita. There, in Atkins Cantina, his fight there Frank "Windy" Cahill, and fleeing to New Mexico Territory. Cahill's Coroner's Jury's verdict So the noose hung over Henry In New Mexico Territory, William Henry "Billy Bonney;" with Bonney possibly Going eastward to the Pecos River with fellow drifter, Tom O'Keffe, they were attacked by Apaches O'Keffe and their horses were lost. Billy walked forty miles, without water, to Seven Rivers rescue Through the older Jones boys, Billy likely met Santa Fe Ring as well as Pecos River ranchers, who rustled cattle from cattle king, for themselves and for Billy soon joined Jessie's gang, being seen on October 1, 1877 By that 1877, boss T.B. Catron had a mercantile in Lincoln County, the largest county in the United States. There, Catron first sold rustled beef and bad hay to Fort Stanton, through its sutler store's Ring sub-bosses: In 1873, their savage clerk, James Dolan, tried to kill a soldier Expelled, but backed by Catron, moving nine miles away to Lincoln, the men built a huge, two-story store - nicknamed "The House." When Fritz died in 1874, Murphy partnered with Dolan They gave usurious credit In 1875, beat Murphy in an election, In 1876, Catron's cattle dealer, John Riley, later a partner crippled Lincoln's Juan Patron, in attempted murder. Into this vicious who would change Billy Bonney's life. In 1876, Attorney Alexander McSween settled in Lincoln, That year, he convinced British, seeking mercantile and ranching McSween was anti-Ring. Having been "The House's" attorney, he knew about their selling stolen to Fort Stanton By 1877, Tunstall, backed by his rich parents, a short way east of "The House," There, he added his apartment. And he also added a bank, making cattle king, And Tunstall planned cattle ranches to control grazing land So Jessie Evans was assigned to Lincoln by harassment or murder. Billy came along as a gang member. Boss Catron, as Territorial U.S. Attorney, prosecutions of McSween and Tunstall. In December of 1876, Catron had Alexander McSween arrested - in the Territory's Las Vegas, McSween was accused policy proceeds whose siblings McSween Chisum had faked charges about loans. In a February 4, 1878 hearing, Ringite Judge Warren Bristol Bristol also lied that McSween to harass both with attachment - for the alleged ten thousand dollar Bristol set McSween's bond with approval only by Ringite so Lincoln County's Ringite Sheriff, could potentially kill him Jessie Evans began with stealing making Tunstall force Sheriff Brady in the pit jail. Meanwhile, gregarious Billy, Act farmers - cousins George They introduced Billy to Tunstall, Billy accepted the job. When Brady enabled Jessie Billy still stayed with Tunstall. That was how Billy became on the Penasco River, Tunstall intended to make and Penasco Rivers, to control And Tunstall's men He'd finally found a home. Catron's plotting was to incite to kill them in claimed self-defense. But Tunstall merely said: "The life of one man This show of goodness So Sheriff Brady Tunstall had to be killed exonerated McSween. On February 18, 1878, Brady's big posse of Ring-loyal with added Jessie Evans and his boys - including Billy - while they were driving from his Feliz River ranch, Tunstall was murdered. Billy and the other men Tunstall's hidden body, was found the next day. The horror, after his four-and-a-half months converted Billy Sheriff Brady obviously refused So Lincoln's anti-Ring Justice John "Squire" Wilson, deputizing, for their service - under Town Constable Atanacio Martinez - Tunstall's employees But Brady illegally jailed them, Billy's Winchester '73 carbine - Tunstall's men named after pre-Revolutionary War and made Dick Brewer, leader. On March sixth, with Wilson's warrants, they arrested Tunstall murder possemen, William "Buck Morton and Frank Baker. On March ninth, Morton and Baker escaped, and were killed by the Regulators - Ringite Governor S.B. Axtell canceling Justice of the Peace and made Sheriff Brady and Ringite the sole law enforcers. Obviously, Brady's next victim would be The opportunity would be for his Grand Jury trial. So the Regulators - including Billy - hid in the Tunstall store corral and ambushed Brady and his deputies, Sheriff Brady Billy recklessly ran out, and retrieved his stolen carbine Appointed by the County Commissioners On April fourth, Tunstall murder posseman, in Blazer's Mill, Resisting arrest, Roberts shot wildly, maiming George Coe's hand hitting John Middleton, Bowdre fatally shot Roberts. Billy did not fire a shot. Then optimism arose. April's Grand Jury Billy, and the other Regulators, Hindman, and Roberts; though not pursued. And Fort Stanton's Ring-biased Commander George Purington was replaced Nathan Augustus Monroe Dudley. Optimism was short-lived. The Lincoln County War had started - with Seven Rivers ranchers and skirmishing with Regulators. Again Alexander McSween hid - or at John Chisum's Roswell ranch. On April 28, 1878, Seven Rivers men murdered Josiah "Doc" Scurlock On April thirtieth, MacNab's But the Regulators killed a few, and Sheriff Copeland So Ring sub-boss, James Dolan, with George Peppin and Billy Matthews, went to Blazer's Mill, David Easton's warrants against McSween But Easton then quit, Then new Commander Dudley's Ring He set free MacNab's killers and forced Copeland in failed attempt to arrest McSween On May twenty-eighth, Governor Axtell, by Proclamation, removed Copeland, George Peppin sheriff. Alexander McSween fought back. He reported Tunstall's murder triggering a federal investigation Federal investigator On June 8, 1878, Billy risked his life to come his deposition on Tunstall's murder. Further encouragement on June 18, 1878, of the Posse Comitatus Act, barring military intervention except to protect women and children. Then the Ring struck. On June 21, 1878, boss Catron, set up hanging the Regulators including Billy as "the Kid" - Roberts in the federally-controlled On June twenty-eighth, ignoring the Posse Comitatus Act, Sheriff Peppin to murder McSween, In revenge, on July 3, 1878, Peppin massacred people of San Patricio using outlaw John Kinney's gang. It triggered the Lincoln On July 13, 1878, the day before the Battle, his "Regulator Manifesto" to boss Catron's Billy said: "We are all aware sustains the Murphy-Kinney party, that if any property belonging is stolen or destroyed, Mr. Catron's property as nearly as can be, in the way in which the party he sustains or destroyed by them." The Lincoln County War Battle On day one, July 14, 1878, McSween rode into Lincoln and men from San Patricio and Picacho, to force "The House's" Ring Certain of no bloodshed, her sister with five young children, David Shield's, law intern, McSween's men strategically positioned and houses of Jose Montano, Defense was enabled by easily and the Bonita River blocking the north. McSween took only Jim But when shooting Seven Rivers men, McSween accepted men racing On day two, the men in McSween's By messenger, McSween sent an eviction Ringite Saturnino Baca, Sheriff Peppin's deputy, David Easton's invalid warrants but was repelled by shots. On day three, Commander Dudley sent for so-called fact-finding. A staged shot - made his horse throw him. Robinson raced back On day four, Commander Dudley incident to accuse McSween He sent Post Surgeon Daniel Appel, for more so-called fact finding. Military presence allowed Peppin's men They injured Isaac Elis's son. But one was killed by a McSween man. It was still a standoff-by McSweens. Day five, gave McSween hope of victory. Lively Billy amused all trapped Then Saturnino Baca, to James Dolan, requesting troops Dolan, with outlaw John Kinney, took it to Dudley in Fort Stanton. On July 19, 1878, day six of the Battle, with his white infantry bringing a howitzer cannon He threatened McSween if a shot was fired, He gave Peppin soldier guards. McSween's terrified men fled Learning David Easton's Dudley forced Justice of the Peace against McSween and Billy All in McSween's house were trapped as Peppin planned incineration. Peppin's men set fire to the house. Later, the women and children By 9 pm, the men, attempted escape Billy, while running with others, saw Dudley's three white officers They were possibly Billy and the survivors crossed McSween was murdered, along with posseman trying to serve his warrant, McSween's corpse was found the next day, with his starving yard chickens Most Regulators fled the Territory, selling rustled Ringite stock On October 24, 1878, he sold a Henry Hoyt and wrote him a bill of sale. Meanwhile, He made Investigator not U.S. officials, murdered Tunstall. Hayes replaced Governor S.B. Axtell Wallace was the people's hope. In reality, he feared the Ring, by hanging remaining Complicating Wallace's solution, bringing in Attorney Huston Chapman, for murdering her husband And complicating the Ring's solution On February 18, 1879, James Dolan held It ended with disaster. The group encountered Chapman. Dolan and Campbell shot him point blank. Jessie Evans was there too. Dolan set fire to his body. Billy was again Governor Lew Wallace Billy was number fourteen as "the Kid." So Wallace offered a one thousand dollar Wallace also made an Amnesty Proclamation excluding the indicted - like Billy. Billy, however, used Wallace's reward proposing a pardon bargain against Chapman's murderers for a pardon for his Brady, Hindman, and Roberts indictments. Billy said: "I have heard for my body, which, as I can understand it, I know it is as a witness against If it was so as that I could give the desired information. But I have indictments against me that happened in the late and am afraid to give up The day Mister Chapman was murdered, at the request of good citizens to meet as friends, our arms and go to work. I was present and know who did it. And if it was not for those indictments, If it is in your power I hope you will do so, Wallace then met with Billy of the Peace "Squire" Wilson, By March 21, 1879, by current Sheriff, George Kimbrell; with sham imprisonment jailor, Juan Patron - all to hide In the April Grand Jury, Billy finished his side of the bargain Campbell, and Evans indicted The Ring retaliated by changing his venue for his own indictments from Lincoln Still jailed, Billy also volunteered against Commander Dudley Had the court not been Ring-controlled, Billy's testimony - three white soldiers fire and escaping others - On June 17, 1879, Billy left Patron's to await the pardon. It would never come. Lew Wallace protected only himself. But Billy got an advocate: murdered Huston Chapman's Attorney Ira Leonard; hired by Susan McSween, Billy supported himself gambling, from Fort Sumner to Las Vegas. With past Regulator friends Billy also continued Billy's base was Fort Sumner, Paulita Maxwell, Lucien Bonaparte Maxwell. One of Billy's non-Ring outlets Dan Dedrick, at Bosque Grande, and White oaks Billy gifted Dedrick Besides Dan Dedrick, Billy also sold Meanwhile, the Ring made as the fabricated outlaw Billy the Kid. So, on January 3, 1880, a Texan bounty hunter named Joe Grant, tried to kill Billy in Fort Sumner's Grant's gun misfired, fatally in accepted self-defense. By then, T.B. Catron was obsessed With co-boss, in Washington, D.C., he got Secret Service Special Operative Wild's Ring handlers included whose Chapman murder case had been dismissed But on October 8, 1880, Billy's loyal attorney, used Wild to get a second pardon chance for Billy by exchanging his testimony So James Dolan convinced But cautious Billy held up the stage Chief, read the plot, Dolan then convinced gullible Wild that Billy headed the country's To get rid of anti-Ring Sheriff the Ring promoted past buffalo hunter - with plantation background. On the Texas buffalo range, a kid named Joe Briscoe, Coming to Fort Sumner in 1878, Advertised to new White Oaks settlers, Kimbrell was forced to deputize him; and Azariah Wild made him for Territory-wide jurisdiction On November 22, 1880, White Oaks men tried to kill Billy, at nearby Coyote Spring; killing two horses before they escaped. Right after that, they attacked again Their spokesman, Jim Carlyle entered to demand Billy's surrender. They held Greathouse outside as Carlyle's protection. Hearing a random shot outside, Carlyle leapt through a window, But they blamed Billy. On December 12, 1880, denying killing Jim Carlyle, Billy said: "I noticed in the Las Vegas Gazette Billy the Kid, the name was the captain of a band of outlaws There is no such organization So the gentleman must have drawn Hypocrite Wallace's only response a December 22, 1880 LAS VEGAS GAZETTE of five hundred dollars, On December 19, 1880, with Texan posses backed ambushed Billy's group entering Only Billy's side-kick, Billy, and the others, in a blizzard, to its rock house, line cabin, On December twenty-second, Garrett ambushed them there, but shooting dead Charlie Bowdre The rest surrendered. Transporting his prisoners, where Luz and Paulita Maxwell Billy was then held for where a crowd of adulating when he was interviewed Billy was held in the Santa Fe jail from December 27, 1880 because the Ring awaited railroad track completion to the Mesilla area From the jail, Billy wrote four, ignored, pardon Wallace was just a few streets away On March 4, 1881, Billy wrote: "I have done everything and you have done Unmoved, Wallace ignored him, while basking he had written while in New Mexico: On March 28, 1881, Billy accompanied by protective Presiding in its courthouse, Ringite Warren Bristol. Billy's first trial four eleven for supposedly in the Mescalero Reservation. But Ira Leonard got it quashed because it wasn't really a federal case, since the killing site private property Leonard then suddenly withdrew, under likely Ring death threat. Judge Bristol then appointed, Attorney Albert Jennings Fountain, For Billy's April 8, 1881 trial Fountain merely told the jury which had only first degree The correct argument including Billy - killed Brady justifying a lesser degree On April 9, 1881, the jury's verdict On April thirteenth, to hang the next month - On April 15, 1881, Billy wrote to Attorney Edgar Caypless, or recovery case - for his bay racing mare, who had stolen her then sold her. Billy wanted to use her to pay But Caypless only won Billy was transported to Sheriff in Lincoln's new courthouse-jail, As the past "House," it had been sold by its real owner, For Billy's two guards, County War Ring-rustler and White Oaks's possible Billy was arm and leg shackled, and chained to a floor ring, On April 28, 1881, with Garrett away collecting taxes, Billy broke jail. His likely accomplice and John Tunstall's anti-Ring cook, who possibly left him a revolver, and a screw key to his wrist shackles, Billy offered to tie Bell, but he leapt down the back stairs, Bob Olinger, with other prisoners heard the shot, and ran back. Billy, waiting blasted him with Olinger's Gauss then gave Billy a miner's pick to break the leg chain to enable riding. Meanwhile, They won the War their own way. Gauss next provided the escape pony. So Billy Bonney's final tally with Frank "Windy" Cahill, the only ones provably by his hand. The others were William William Brady, George Hindman, Billy first crossed to his friend, Ygenio Salazar. Then he went south John Meadows, But he then turned northeast, He trusted the Maxwell family, On May 1881, hypocrite Governor Lew Wallace personal, five hundred dollar, now in the SANTA FE DAILY NEW MEXICAN. In the future, he would publish where he heroically offered the pardon, Pat Garrett heard rumors He went there with his deputies: John William Poe, and local hog raiser, Early, on July 14, 1881, Poe, a stranger to locals, then met with Milnor Rudulph, Poe decided Billy was nearby. So secretly arranged, to call Billy to a meeting in his bedroom That July fourteenth, of his married friends, Billy began his death walk. At a little before midnight, he walked to the Maxwell mansion, from the side of beef But first, tricked by Garrett's he went to Maxwell's dark bedroom, and where Garrett waited; with his deputies Garrett fatally shot Billy with his second bullet Panicked Maxwell ran out, Two hundred, for Billy in the town's On July 15, 1881, Justice of the Peace, and de facto Coroner, Alejandro Segura, assembled his six jurymen in the Maxwell mansion President was known Ringite, Peter Maxwell was the witness. The jurymen identified Billy's body, They declared justifiable homicide, and supported Garrett's Segura then wrote the three page And Billy's friend, family servant, Deluvina Maxwell, Billy was buried beside Garrett's other victims, Close-by, was buried, a victim, like them, Garrett, represented had to wait The Territorial Legislature had offer to a Territorial from Territorial funds Then silence fell. Ring terrorism triumphed. Billy Bonney - was gone. Thomas Benton Catron first two senators at 1912 statehood. Still-existing Catron County in 1921, But escape from truth is impossible, as long as the real history