Somalia is one of the countries As soon as we arrived we are taken care of by Yuke. This ex-soldier of the forces works for a company He will ensure our protection. This car is armored. When it is closed, locked, The bullets, the explosions... She resists everything. We ride escorted by The country has been relatively Only 130 deaths were recorded The attacks, on the other hand, are almost We are stopped at this checkpoint. - Did something happen in the city? An attack has just occurred The plume of smoke is still visible. The city is sealed off, but we a real fortress. It is protected by bomb-proof walls, and each vehicle is scrupulously In the hotel, Yuke's company made a panic room. If something happens, This is our bunker. In the event of an attack, It's safe. There is a water reserve And the door is bulletproof. This hotel does not accommodate any tourists. There are no more in Mogadishu. Residents are for who left their home and security with their families. Like the police chief for example. On the other side of the hotel, Yuke This is our operations room. From his screens, he can monitor but also track equipped with GPS chips. In the absence of service it's from social networks of today's attack. We have Twitter which allows us to follow but also local. Zakia Hussen is the deputy She just confirmed on Twitter is a car bomb attack. It took place at a dam. It's barely 100 meters from here. The same evening, we recover The attack left twelve dead These dramas have become almost routine, Located on the Horn of Africa, Somalia has been eaten away since 1991 piracy, Islamist terrorism, and famine. More than 500,000 deaths in 30 years. Remember who landed in Mogadishu with Doctors and equipment must be sent. They have no food to survive. Since 2006, Somalia has been under the Shebabs who are terrorizing the country. Their fighters occupy near and threaten Mogadishu. They multiply For two years, these attacks The Shebabs act In 2013, 68 people in the attack of a center Every day, hundreds of to protect Mogadishu I have just been informed We're going to question him to find out more. Exceptionally, we were able to enter Islamist terrorists Most of the prisoners It is not safe to approach them. Cleared ! Go back to your cell, A new generation like the mayor of Mogadishu, attempts to restore an administration Politicians like me are The emergency services did not with often dramatic consequences. We take him to the hospital. We pray to God Somalia is the country with the most Part of the billions in aid We are faced with a dilemma. We could apply in this case, nothing more and people were dying. After 30 years of conflict and despite the inhabitants of Mogadishu are trying on the verge of chaos. In the city center, the stigmata on each facade. The historic center Public services are and the economy is at a standstill. The 2 and a half million inhabitants Small businesses The average wage is $2 per day. The country still experiences famines. More than two thirds of the population For the most part, these young people and dream of leaving the country. Mohamed is 22 years old. He is a tuk-tuk driver. These thousands of little taxis sneak around They sometimes work The tuk-tuk is a job It's true that I didn't go because I could have found To get around town, there is no How much is it to go It's $2. $2 is a bit expensive. - $1.50. A 20 minute run In Somalia, the local currency, is no longer used and transactions I'll give you my number for There is almost no money Everyday transactions This system is called EVC. This is how I get paid. I never take cash, I don't have a bank account. But with this system, Mohamed does not have the means to pass So at each roadblock, he is at the mercy Checkpoints are often When someone asks me for my papers, I have to pay $5 And then it starts again Tuk-tuk drivers, of the greed of the police. We experience it - What's up brother ? We are 4 police officers today. OK, I understand. Yes, God willing, that's fine with us. Our driver pays $8 with his Come on, have a good day! Come on, see you next time. Some days the whole recipe Sometimes the police extort me In the evening, I go home because I lost everything. Mohamed lives in this downtown neighborhood. He shares this house with his mother, his five brothers who are still teenagers, and her sister. His salary is used to support This is the kitchen. This is where we prepare all our meals. Today we ate Here we keep our pancakes. There we have butter. As the eldest, Mohamed became despite My father died in 2011. We were taking that's when we have He came out to see what was happening, and the shebabs shot him He is dead. That day, Mohamed receives all born with the civil war. These young people suffer There is no work here. There are killings all the time. We die for no reason. Life in Mogadishu It's very hard. Have you ever lost friends? Not just one or two. We lost friends This is why some I too wanted to leave. All tried to flee the country in 2016, with the hope of reaching Europe. Me, I wanted to go to France One in Paris and one in another city. Me, in Denmark. Me, in Germany. For their trip, they called on They all took different paths, and everyone went through hell. When leaving Somalia, They imprisoned me there. They kept me for seven days. I had no one to pay my ransom. Finally I succeeded I got on a bus, There were gunshots I broke my arm. My hand is no longer straight. Look. And I even took myself Look, the ball is still there Despite everything they endured, They only have one desire, leave Somalia and go back Who still wants to go to Europe? Me ! For Mohamed, the trip turned Detained for several days in he managed to prevent He introduced them to us, in Somalia, We learned He was very ill and he had We sent money so he could Did you agree No not at all. Our youth are losing There they will not find You understand What matters is not what he It's 1000 times better to live and work here instead To encourage him to stay, the sultans lent him EUR3000 He pays them back when he can. When the state fails, traditional authorities In Somalia, these are the 2000 chiefs North of Mogadishu, The sheik, the sultan of the clan, all from the same village. His red beard is a sign of wisdom. He was elected by the 50,000 members He acts as judge, policeman, and even in some cases, The sultanate is not something It comes from God. You don't learn that at school. Only an in-depth study of I didn't have any training, you can solve But you're still worried and I don't sleep much. Sultans are not paid. To earn his living, the sheik, He is paid EUR180 per month. In Somalia, schools are fee-paying. So for the poorest, to learn to read are the schools are free. We study there exclusively Children learn it by heart from What are you learning here? I am obliged to learn the Koran. Why couldn't you go Because we don't have the means. Would you have gone there if you could? Yes, I would have liked. This religious school welcomes Girls are separated from boys Today is the weekend. Do you know what I expect from you? First of all, That's my advice. Come on ! Your master frees you. For the Sultan, no days of rest. As soon as class finished, One of his clan members This problem must be resolved. We will get in touch very soon Here is the accused. He was tried for killing Recently, the Somali authorities often accused of abuses. Abderrazak Youssouf Goure, the court sentenced you Those who oppose this judgment For the Sultan, there is no question of letting A meeting is being organized Around the representative table One of our sons who is a police officer, arrested a tuk-tuk driver. They didn't understand each other well. So he pulled out his gun Our religion gives us 3 options either we kill one of our own, or we pay This is what we chose. Our tradition provides that we must to the victim's family. This will wipe out our debt. 100 camels are worth around EUR45,000, almost 500 times An amount that they will try Everyone must pay according to their means. Between $5 and $200. Listen to me everyone. Abderrahmane, you will have to pay $20. What do you do if If someone refuses to pay, We are the ones who give the orders. If the clans come to an agreement among themselves, will no longer have a say. The clans prefer since the start of the civil war. As long as we don't have we can't count The killer policeman will be released when will have received the promised EUR45,000. The process may take To try to restore confidence a new generation of leaders risking their lives. In this house that looks like a stronghold Abdirahman Omar Osman For the Shebab terrorists, he is a man to be taken down. He invites us to share his day. It's breakfast It's goat's liver that we We eat with our hands. It's that What is your role as I have to provide clean drinking water, provide a first aid service, as well as education. But the biggest challenge, that we are trying to improve. The mayor travels in an armored car. And has an escort Despite the ever-present danger, Abdirahman Osman chose to leave to return to Somalia. I returned from the UK I was a civil servant in a I decided to quit my job, my wife and children, to come and help How did you become mayor? It was the president who appointed me. There are no municipal elections Not at the moment, but we are working in the near future. Upon his arrival at the town hall, of the head of his personal guard, in a legacy style The mayor has a $15,000 per month, He heads one of the largest 2600 civil servants In his office, He receives them one by one to Mr. Mayor, I am still waiting that I dropped off for you. Wait please. This man has a neighborhood problem. This story has been going on for a week. Mr. Mayor, you know that the With EUR30 million annually, the budget of However, it would take a lot of money to The subject occupies the majority sometimes until late at night. In the evening, its security 20 police officers escort his convoy. Politicians like me are The Shebabs have changed tactics. They are waging an asymmetrical war. So we must be ready to accomplish our mission Every evening, he brings together the Security Committee Good evening everyone. On this day, this outdoor gymnasium By choosing this open place, the mayor wants to show Around the table a representative The head of the national police The day was particularly including a man found dead, Did anything happen today? Yes, there were serious events, notably a police officer, who started shooting at civilians. Nearly 2 million weapons of war That evening, faced with insecurity, the mayor and the police chief We want to show the public can walk in the street without fear. We are going to talk with young people, - Are you doing well ? Good morning. The mayor wants to give the impression but it is still framed by We are blocking the intersections. We seek to avoid that a vehicle, or that a tuk-tuk which would be Is the threat constant? Yes but I doubt they will We are numerous. They are no match. The delegation ends the evening - Good evening. How are you ? Good evening. This seemingly innocuous outing We have never seen The Mayor of Mogadishu walk around the city at night. It's been 27 years since this happened. For us today, see all it is a first step towards peace. But this enthusiasm Three weeks after our shoot, That day, he received at the town hall, the Haut for Somalia, James Swan. The Shebab terrorists are taking advantage of this A bomb explodes The attack leaves six people dead. The United Nations representative but the mayor, seriously injured, is evacuated to Qatar He died from his injuries National funerals are organized. The person responsible for the attack For more than two years, Mariam closest to the city mayor. But from the Shebab territories, she was also a sleeper agent She was the one who wore She died in the attack. After weeks of negotiations, we managed to enter Appointment is made in Good morning. I am happy Married and father of two children, he tells us he was enlisted when they took According to him, the Shebabs infiltrated They live in town. We cannot recognize them Are they everywhere in Mogadishu? Yes, they are everywhere in Mogadishu. There are spies who collect There are also those who collect Even ministers and deputies They are stronger Of course they are stronger. and a person ready to die In 2015, he left the Shebabs and is Since then, his life has been under constant threat. To prevent the Shebabs from acting lock permanently Mohamed J**** is at the head He leads a hundred men Our objective is to go and control, entry points There are also checkpoints Come on, get out! Head to the south of the city. According to intelligence services, In working-class neighborhoods, then they are regularly Posted at a crossroads, the police control We are looking for weapons and we search the passengers. The searches are carried out with bare hands, at the risk of triggering We carry out excavations But we lack equipment That reassures me Just yesterday, It is important to be able to The patrol leaves. On the road, the police As seen in this video, law enforcement officers are regularly When our convoy the police spot a car She has no business being there. The police immediately put False alarm this time. We are heading towards the zone Fifteen kilometers away there is no front line, but we enter This road is the door The security services installed there Most people passing We search everyone because If we find the holders are arrested. This is the first checkpoint Here, danger is omnipresent, and attacks can This truck hid It was spotted and destroyed More recently, it's a car bomb He was stopped at the checkpoint, when we approached the car exploded. The pulverized carcass of the car like a symbol. The police chose to keep Look, This is the policeman's bulletproof vest It's all that's left of him. We will never forget it. A little away, a bunker was improvised based Inside, an agent His only weapon, a laptop, which contains photos of suspects Everyone who passes through here is registered. We record everything. We have the identities of individuals That day, the computer speaks. During a search at the checkpoint, a young man Chief, he looks I am told that he is known to our services We will investigate him. We think he is part of the Shebab. So we take him away from the crowd and we will lead The young man will be transferred directly In the heart of the city. This building is more than two centuries old. It houses one of the oldest It locks up criminals and terrorists Mainly shebabs. For the first time, a camera in this prison complex. 700 prisoners are incarcerated there. The director gives us a tour. Most of the prisoners It is not safe to go see them. Some of the detainees Get out of here ! Return to Back off! How many is there It depends. 30, 40, 50. It depends on the number of beds The director finally accepts Go to your beds. That each of An inmate addresses us, We will learn later that he if we enter the cell. A supervisor leads the way. He doesn't carry a weapon and reduce the risk of mutiny. Most prisoners are sentenced It's over 40 degrees There is only one toilet We won't have time You have to leave quickly. Crowded cells, A United Nations report denounces The director takes advantage of our coming, to show us the new programs In this part of the prison, voluntary prisoners can There are ironworkers In the carpentry workshop, prisoners build windows, but also rifles They serve Most people did There are also thieves and rapists. And there are those who don't have Some of them work They earn $2 a day, that they can touch I was a Shebab militiaman. I've been in prison for ten years But today I am a specialist And I would like to do this job This classroom These ex-militiamen passed this year Sarah and Mariam are two friends. They are enrolled in a school But this morning, Maryam is worried Did you know how to read before prison? No. No way. Never school? No, no school. I want to learn English If God wills. The pride of the director, Police officers and prisoners play under the leadership On the xylophone, a veteran It was my dream to become a musician. So I took this opportunity Our goal is to change We want to make them different people These reintegration programs are funded The international community pays nearly in humanitarian aid. But almost half of this money For safety reasons, are grouped around by the seaside. An ultra-secure area very difficult to access, and that expatriates We have a rendez vous which houses 2000 civil servants Justin Brady is responsible for helping Each building is reinforced to If shots came now, we have provided concrete shelters This base was attacked so the UN must invest a lot Almost half of its budget. The first expense is security. This is why our operating costs An armored vehicle is good I have to provide my staff with headsets Our expenses in Somalia How much does that represent? I do not know exactly, Expatriates who live in more than EUR8,000 per month. To attract them, you have to offer them They travel in armored cars, Operating costs the amounts available So on the ground, the results like in this maternity for thousands of women, it is the only free solution for It is financed by Action Against Hunger, a French NGO presents There are only three midwives and around ten deliveries per day, performed in an unsanitary room. For childbirth, protective glasses No epidurals here. The rooms are overcrowded, and women leave maternity ward The association does not have the means Consultations are guaranteed In the most complicated cases, Their only help is This is the Somali guide He helps us when needed. For example, he explains to us but also the support or how to make vaccines. There is also the description In Somalia, one in ten babies The lack of resources of medical NGOs, often has dramatic consequences. When the Somalis call Abdelkader Haden He created this association at the start of the civil war. It's the only one in town. We have around twenty ambulances. They are old. They date from 98-99. The vehicles come from abroad. There is oxygen. And a first aid kit. This is really basic equipment. The association employs drivers, but again, no doctors. It is the dentist who trains his employees This is our campus in which This Friday morning, there are no classes. There's someone sleeping here. Aamin Ambulance leads twenty Every time a question We have an emergency We need to transfer We have no further information. They were called in a small a little girl of four years old. She has been treated for a week The employees are completely overwhelmed. The little girl is taken away which has a pediatric department. His mother and uncle accompany him. We don't know what she's suffering from. The doctors didn't tell us anything. No one at the dispensary made it We can't wait to arrive We pray to God for but we know In the ambulance, On arrival, it is too late. The girl The mother, overcome by shock, Later, the family outside Mogadishu, in this refugee camp where millions of Somalis live The child will be buried the same day, It was God who wanted May God ease my pain. I did everything for my child. I tried everything to keep him alive. But unfortunately its time I thank God in moments Diseases, poverty, malnutrition, unsanitary conditions. Billions in international aid partly because Since 2008, has always classified Somalia as According to a Somali minister, Only 30% of aid and no controls are put in place. Presidential elections The future president will be elected by The Somali people will not have