Just over a year ago, I made this prototype for a tiny game that I just 1, 200 commits, 25, 000 lines of code, let's just say the guy talking in idea what he's getting himself into. In this past year, a lot Over 20, 000 people have playtested my into something that is really starting And because Blargis of the past documenting the whole process, then vs now content to show off. And since this has turned into such a to dive in and show off what a really And discuss how I'm feeling about my know, one of the more mainstream engines. So that's what this video is, a recap went into taking this simple prototype Alright, so in the past year, I think the be broken up into three distinct phases. Getting something playable finding polish, which is basically the will be in for a very long time. So, starting with getting The original vision for Bloodthief Hotline Miami, but in kind of a So in the past I would do this thing on a project and then like a year in I And so I knew from the get go I This one I was gonna try to get a working possible, just so I could see sooner if then I would have something to iterate on. And feasibly I could release. Which that's basically the goal Okay, so what's the minimum just so I have something to play? The way I see it, that just means a an enemy for me to fight, and a So I basically grab the Godot controller, I made, like, the worst, ever seen, and I made, like, these And then I made this knight character, least for my typical standards. That's using Mixamo animations, run straight at you, basically. And guess what? That's exactly what's still in the game For the level, I did exactly what instead of just throwing together an end, I made this absolutely absurd to be this awesome dungeon generation just pump out levels like crazy and it I ended up throwing all that away. So let this be a lesson that in the So yeah, what I ended up with was just torches and doors and stuff, but hey, So Be impressed. So at the time this was really exciting was a game and it was playable and kind something that I could iterate On now of this video, which is finding fun So game more fun is just to make it more make a variation of the knight that had for making the game more challenging moving projectile that you had to dodge the knights anymore But what about this basically been using since day one? Like I said earlier, I wanted this game didn't know quake's got like the best of research on how Quake's movement works, just basically feel like Quake's movement. Which, at the time, I was like, Wow, But now that I'm watching this But hey, we were starting So one of the other inspirations which is like, extremely fast paced. So the other big thing that I did was I So basically Quake's, Ultra Zing and pep. See, that's, those are the kind Yes, Jim. What about if we did an even had even more zing and pep? Now we're cooking. Also, as I alluded to earlier, and there was a notable lack of The thing about Hotline Miami is that The main way you express skill in that I wanted Bloodthief to be like was going to be paramount. But I was finding that just running sword in kind of the Hotline Miami style. Just didn't feel like it provided the the game interesting So it was at this to the game Which now was making the miami plus titanfall It also was really definitely entered my radar around this good thing because I played it and it's done a smart thing in getting the full can now The magic was starting to happen. I was starting to get that it be fun if I could do this? For example, when I slid into the knights, should be able to knock the knights over. Wouldn't that be cool? And then the air dash came about because these aerial attacks on the knights So I made an attack where you like a heat seeking missile. And then with all these new movement with interesting level layouts and ideas. Because now, I just had to think about to use some of these new mechanics. It was at this point that I started levels, which I'll talk a little So yeah, things were moving, and it felt But I stayed in this phase, where I was this game by myself for way too long. I mean, if we look at my dev logs, I July, 2023, and it wasn't until October, the game to people and play testing. Wait, the sensitivity is through the roof. Yeah, sorry. Can I turn it down? No. Can you even come in here? Oh my God. All right. Oh, oh my god! Bro, I can just use Shift But it's like, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. This is so intense. Oh my god, I have obliterated it. Oh no. Oh god! Yes! So that was just an initial playtest friends, but it was soon after that that community using Steam's playtest feature. When I started playtesting, I was design process, and so it was when I doubled Bloodthief's movement kit. Over the course of the next few months, the ledge vault, the crouch, which, deep and fun mechanic, and the ground I also refined things like the air dash that was actually fun to play, which is And so now this game that started starting to kind of feel like Quake Ghostrunner plus Titanfall, which, I But perhaps most importantly, throughout what Bloodthief's core gameplay loop was. What I realized was that while it's fun fight enemies, and just get through playtesting, I found a super fun metagame through the level as quickly as possible. In other words, when you get really good shortcuts in the level are, finding the and mastering the movement mechanics are all really fun ways to make on And so in observing this in play tests, and medals got added to the game. And with those additions, it started to getting added to this mix here, which also So this exploratory phase of development probably could've stayed in it forever. But it had become very clear gameplay loop that was really fun. And so if I wanted any hope of finishing to kinda stick my feet in the sand and loop I'm settling on, no more mechanics, And so that brings me to the phase of Which, I don't know, probably I'm calling it production and polish. Essentially at this point, I have let What my focus is now, is on many creative ways as I can, out Basically through a variety of None of which I can really talk kind of spoil the whole game. The other aspect of this phase that I of refinement to stuff to make it, you And when I say level of refinement, ass code with code that actually with slightly better programmer art. As for refining the code, it's so get you like 90 percent of what you But getting that last 10 percent One place where this is definitely Stairs are kind of famously terrible is definitely no exception. You can think of Bloodthief's player And as we all know, Roombas At first I basically got around this behind all the staircases in the But I quickly started to lose my every single little detail that So I actually had to implement a detect if you're about to hit a stair If you've ever heard of the open basically using that approach. I'll link that in the description if you Stairs. Another piece of infrastructure that started to add Polish was Bloodthief's of Bloodthief, I was literally Every time the player hit restart, It was like a two second stutter But Bloodthief is the type of game in a level, and I just think that too long for a game like that. Funny enough, it's just short For example, like players weren't But I think it's just long enough sanity in such a way that you Kind of like a leaky faucet that I don't know why, it kind of just to reduce this loading time. Maybe that's just my So I redid the restart system actually needs to be restarted. Which is so much faster, like But this created like a billion to know if it's the type of thing So there's a whole bunch of like and I turned my little one liner prone piece of infrastructure that single new thing I add to the game. But, on the other hand, Restart is and so, I'm still glad I did it. Just working. Working hard so I can please you. And what about me turning my programmer doesn't look so much like programmer art? Well, for that I'm just gonna say that I'm I'm trying to leverage my programming like this sky shader I made that About a year in I finally redid I showed off in the beginning. Check it out, now we got fingers! And because I'm an idiot, I still haven't I literally modeled his hand in the being shoved into the player's hand In last video someone suggested the player Flipping their sword Hey man, that would require rigging out of the question at this point. Unless we come up with some emotes that Like, maybe he can just enemies or something like that. Oh yeah, and as for those hilariously the beginning Those haven't changed. As for textures, I think I'm better at making good textures. I've kind of got a process where I Some textures are just com where I pull them into little bit more bloodthief y. And I've actually started using which, you know, I'm just learning. So if you're a real artist please don't make fun of me. And yeah, I think the art's at feeling pretty good about it. I think part of being a game dev is playing to your strengths, and doing Okay, so that's basically everything that in the beginning of this video that I what a sizable Godot project looks like. So, here we go. So Bloodthief is currently using Godot 4. 2. 2. When I first started 0, which means I successfully managed 0 to 4. 1, and again from 4. 1 to 4. 2. And oh, would you look at that, Godot 4. 3 just came out, so I'll definitely be 3 has a ton of features and fixes So I was kind of shocked to see this. The project has 257 GD script files GD script files, and 10 of those So not all of it is me. So if you're anything like project isn't that complicated. How the hell did he manage And as I look through all There's just a lot of random crap that A whole lot of these are UI, which I And this is hilarious because Bloodthief's And it's a huge portion of the I also use a lot of the entity So a single entity like a knight, for With all these scripts being pretty tiny. So 256, not as big as it sounds. At a high level, we've got four Godot works pretty seamlessly with. So I've got FMOD, Trench Broom, In a nutshell, FMOD is just music and sound effects. It's what I'm using for basically For example, I have this song by Occam's the intensity of the song cranks up at So I've got these intensity regions that region, the song seamlessly You set up all this logic in F mod, and I really recommend this for anybody thing, cause it's a lot of fun. I recently migrated all Bloodthief basically every feature you could Like for example, I have a bunch of you can really easily set up a random This is something I would have had to it's just like super easy to set up By anything I just like it The other big this project is trench broom Which is what trench broom is really popular in the how I found out about it In short, Trench modeling and texturing for your maps, but map, like enemies, triggers, doors, and all these things interact with each other. And you do all this in Trench Broom. The way I'm shoving my Trench Broom called func_godot, which by the way heard me talk about it before. The next integration I want to talk This plugin is literally just Godot's default physics engine. I started using Jolt really early I kept getting caught in little I figured I'd try using Jolt, and It's honestly one of those plugins that I isn't that just the best kind of plugin? Last but not least is godot's blender is a tutorial on how to set this up A lot it's actually not that smart to use blend honestly, if you're a small team, I'm not For example, I found it really useful Blender and then immediately be So yeah, it may not be best practice, With that said, I do find myself more often than not nowadays. Mainly just so I can use and not break anything. I also found myself having lots assets, and only the final one makes it into the Godot project. Okay, so I'd say that's a pretty good I don't really feel hampered I mean, sometimes I'll come across an while and I'll see some scary shit that in line with my process for making new dumbest, messiest way possible and only details and requirements of that feature. Do I actually clean it up and refactor? Personally, I think that this is nothing is worse than some giant over adds hundreds of lines of code solving And how about my decision This is definitely a loaded topic video for, but overall, still feeling and I have absolutely no regrets. Sure, it can be pretty buggy really has everything I need, and I'm finding that I'm able to bring ideas Godot, and as someone that overall is I can't really ask for anything more. Maybe I'll make a more thorough Let me know in the comments if Alright, so that's basically my year It's been a lot of fun reflecting on As you can probably imagine, it's This channel has blown up way more So, thank you to you for I love my life. I get to make games and So cheers to a year of game death To Bloodthief Give it a wishlist on steam I like to hang out and chat with people latest news for Bloodthief and it's where I ever do like a release or something to be the first to know I'll leave a link description Alright, thanks for watching. Bye.