Santa Luzia Santa Luzia was a woman who did not bow before the pressure to deny Christ. His Courage and detachment is a source of inspiration for those who need light on their spiritual journey. In images of Saint Luzia, she usually appears with a palm leaf, which is the symbol of martyrdom and immortality. In her hand she also holds a golden tray, inside which is an unusual pair of eyes, which is why she is considered the patron saint of eyes and vision. Her liturgical feast is celebrated on December 13th, a very special day, where millions of people around the world stop to reflect on the inner journey of this young woman who, filled with the Grace of Divine Love, left us an eternal legacy of courage and inspiration in the face of the persecutions of an eternally obsolete world. Lighting Luzia was born in the year 283 in Syracuse, Sicily, an island in the Mediterranean that is now part of Italy. His family was noble and Christian. But those were dangerous times for those who professed Faith in Christianity. Luzia had the grace to grow up in an environment that took her Faith seriously. The girl was enveloped from an early age by an atmosphere of purity of soul and a sincere desire to find the true light that could guide her journey. In this environment, she found a fervent spiritual inspiration that would strengthen her character for the great journey she would soon face. Luzia's father was called Lucio and he died when the girl was still very young. Luzia spent practically her entire childhood dedicating herself to the care of her mother, Mrs. Eutiquia, she was very ill from severe internal bleeding. Luzia offered her chastity to God. By consecrating herself in this way, she wished for her mother's healing. On February 5th, on the feast of Saint Agatha, Luzia and her mother went on a pilgrimage to the city of Catania, also in Sicily. And there they asked for the intercession of Saint Agata for the healing of Lady Eutychia. Saint Agatha was a young Christian from a noble family from Catania. She is also known as "Saint Agueda of Catania", as her testimony is marked by an unshakable faith. Agata suffered a terrible martyrdom, in which both of her breasts were removed. His devotion and intercession on behalf of those who suffered from this disease were widely known and this inspired deep faith in those who cried out for his help. And during the religious festivals, Luzia and her mother joined the crowd of pilgrims who cried out for God's graces, with the intercession of Saint Agata. Luzia carried at her core an unshakable faith in divine protection. And then, like a ray of hope amidst the clouds, the miracle happened: upon touching Saint Agata's tomb, Luzia's mother was healed and her pain immediately dissipated. At that moment, Saint Agata appeared in vision to Luzia and said that she would also suffer martyrdom and would soon be the patron saint of Syracuse. That revelation was truly a decisive moment for Luzia, who began to clearly see a new journey in her life. Luzia was sincerely motivated to follow the path of holiness. So, she began this path, willing to walk in the light of Christ and thus dispel the uncertainties that afflict the human heart. In a way, she was already preparing to face the challenges of survival in a pagan and anti-Christian world with bravery and faith. In those times of intolerance, any manifestation of Faith in the one true God was a reason for capital punishment. Witness After the experience in Catania, Luzia deepened her Faith, discovering the true light in Jesus Christ, who would be her Guide from then on. But the flames of religious persecution at that time threatened to consume the flame of Faith that shone in Luzia's heart. During the Roman Empire, the Church faced periods of intense persecution because of its Faith. As Christians did not worship the Roman gods, they were called "atheists" and were always subject to all types of hostilities, especially in the first four centuries of the Roman Empire. She was Christian. Among the characteristics of this period, we can highlight the especially intense persecution during the reign of emperors such as Nero, Domitian and Diocletian. Despite all the cruelty, the Christian Faith spread triumphantly throughout the Empire, forever changing the history of Humanity. In Syracuse, the land of Luzia, the situation of Christians in the era was different. In her youth, when many young women aspired to marriage and motherhood, Luzia dared to go against the current. There was a very rich young man, he was noble, and he wanted to marry Luzia, but she refused the proposal. That boy did everything to win Luzia's heart, but she was firm in her vocation and consecration to the Divine Spouse Jesus Christ. After all, her Faith was her priority and, given that, no worldly commitment could divert her from her destiny. However, these constant refusals filled the heart of the young man in love with anger and resentment. Driven by his wounded ego, the boy decided to report Luzia to the Roman authorities. Luzia's fate was sealed. The persecution began and the chains of martyrdom began to tighten around Santa Luzia. With her mother's consent, Luzia renounced all her material possessions and her inheritance was donated to the poor, orphans, widows and destitute of society. In those days, Emperor Diocletian was in power in Rome. And Luzia was reported to Proconsul Pascacio, who was the governor in charge of administering the province of Syracuse. He would be Luzia's judge, who was arrested and taken to court. And there, she was accused of being dissolute and probably also of some mental illness. They say this was a fairly common accusation at that time. That trial would be a public trial, so that the humiliation could discredit the accused's religion and serve as a warning to intimidate other Christians. Pascacio did everything he could to make Luzia renounce Christianity and adhere to Roman pagan rituals. The physical and psychological torments sought to erode her Faith, but Luzia remained unshakable, answering all the Governor's questions and objections with intrepidity and eloquence. Many, from that moment on, became admirers of Luzia. The governor mocked the girl's virginal purity and ordered his soldiers to take her to a brothel, a brothel where she would be raped. Luzia replied that she was a Servant of God and that He would not let them violate the purity of His daughter. And, in fact, the soldiers were unable to drag the girl away. So they changed tactics and lit a fire, but the flames refused to burn the saint's body. At the height of his cruelty, Pascacio ordered boiling oil to be poured over the young woman's body. Then, not satisfied with this, the soldiers threw her into the cauldron of oil, but this also proved to be somewhat ineffective. It is evident that at this point in the events, many present there were already convinced of the supernatural power of God acting in Luzia's life. It is said that Luzia had very beautiful eyes and this would have been one of the reasons that disturbed her young suitor. Then the governor ordered his soldiers to take out the young woman's eyes and glue them to a tray. When they did this, another miracle happened: another pair of even more beautiful eyes appeared on the young girl's face. The astonishing fact would have caused such an impression that many soldiers converted to Faith in Christ. That torture session was destined to continue like this for an indefinite period of time and this made the governor increasingly impatient and violent. With great courage and full of the Holy Spirit, Luzia addressed the crowd, saying that the persecution of Christians would soon end and that the Roman Empire's days were numbered. Upon hearing this, the governor became literally possessed and shouted like a madman for anyone to kill that woman. Suddenly, a soldier approached with his sword and cut Luzia's throat. This was December 13, 304, when Luzia, in ecstasy, fell to her knees and pronounced her last words of love to her Divine Spouse. The legacy of Santa Luzia shines in the skies darkened by time. Even with her body weakened by human cruelty, Luzia gathered a divine energy that transcended all pain. His testimony radiated in a great way, intertwining with the destinies of so many others, spread across the four corners of the world. His tomb, located in Syracuse, Italy, has become a point of pilgrimage and devotion, where the faithful seek intercession and illumination of their paths. It was necessary to build a church in that location, as Luzia became one of the most venerated virgin martyrs in the entire history of the Church. Luzia's name was even included in the canon of the Mass alongside other holy women, as I have already said here in the special series on "The 7 women of the Canon of the Mass". In the year 1040, his body was transferred to Constantinople, at the request of Empress Theodora. But in the year 1204, during the Fourth Crusade, his body was taken again to Italy, on the island of Abruzzo. But as this island was too small to receive so many pilgrims, it was necessary to transfer the Saint's relics to the Church of Saint Jeremiah, which is located in Venice. The reports of healings and miracles attributed to the intercession of Saint Luzia echo through the pages of history. People from different places and times found comfort, protection and hope when they turned to this powerful intercessor. Saint Luzia is remembered and celebrated as an example of holiness in the face of the adversities of a world eternally lacking celestial luminosity. Script, Narration, Illustrations and Editing: Henrique Lima Lima