[dramatic music] male narrator: Eurasia. The world's Some 10,000 kilometers to the Atlantic oceans. A formidable distance, And yet over that human beings have pursued one of history's The Silk Road. A tremendously profitable and so much more. For thousands of years, new technologies, conquering armies... [shouting] And brilliant ideas traveled along the Silk Road. [shouting] Silk Road trade helped and to break them. It fanned the fires [booming] Drove great explorations, and forged powerful bonds - The Silk Road made human are other people out there, of the east and the west. narrator: This is the story made so much more than money. It's the epic tale helped create a world; a world that created us. 2,000 years ago, the Roman Empire Rome had conquered and was sending the eastern Mediterranean gateway to the riches of Asia. But a journey to the east In 53 B.C.E. near of Carrhae, and empire blending Persian confronted a Roman army. The outcome of the battle Some 40,000 Romans faced only And Rome's Legions were [chanting] There was just one problem. The Parthian army - The Parthians, They were horse archers. Versatile. What the Romans did was what They took a fixed position. They were ordered into defending all sides. But that was nothing to because they could just ride They galloped around and around, [shouting] Thousands and thousands into those Romans. [shouting] What the Romans eventually did to go into testudo. That's that Roman formation where they lock and put the next layer Testudo is Latin for tortoise. But the Parthians had They had a hammer to break narrator: The Parthian hammer a Greek word meaning Horse and rider wore heavy The cataphract was the ancient of a battle tank. At Carrhae, broke open the testudo... [shouting] Exposing the Romans inside Some 30,000 Romans Parthian losses were minor. It was one of Rome's worst But it may have been A Roman historian wrote that the Romans with banners made That may only be a legend. But around the time Romans began coveting and China began in exchange for fine Inspiring the name we give the Silk Road. But long before Romans at Carrhae, of Eurasia were shaping lives, and changing the world. At Carrhae, of warfare that had evolved and thousands On the steppes An ocean of land... Where victory in battle, depended on moving very far, Thousands of years before a transportation on these vast plains. - There's good evidence for, of domesticated horses and southern Russia And we actually think were domesticated and began 1,000 years before that, [horses whinnying] narrator: The domestication step towards cavalry warfare. But the second step would be - The first use was with chariot warfare, and we have that Tutankhamun's chariot, uh, in museum exhibits. And we know that people were starting in the Near East Horses were not used until after about 900 B.C., after chariot warfare began. And it's always seemed odd after chariotry. Chariotry is very difficult You have to train horses They have to pull this that has two people in it-- Training the units very difficult thing to do, of a horse is an easy thing. So why did cavalry come I think the real reason that, uh, you needed to have really The earliest evidence is in Shang Dynasty, China, 1300 and 1100 B.C. narrator: Shang emperors ancestors by heating animal until they cracked and then made by the cracks. One of these so-called with the Chinese character image of a recurved bow. And in the tomb and imperial consort and archaeologists - It's a thumb cover and there's another piece that of a recurved bow, The bows themselves so it's a difficult thing of the recurved bow. The different components from different places narrator: Just how far across Eurasia was revealed in China's Xinjiang region. Wooden bows rarely survive but Xinjiang's cold, in a 3,000-year-old tomb. Other grave goods and in the Yanghai tombs confirmed by the Scythians--a highly that originated in southern on horseback across the length The true birthplace of remains an archaeological But there is no doubt that anyone who fought on horseback would have found - A bow is as strong It derives its strength And the recurved bow packs short bow that can be and over the horse's neck. And it was much, much easier And the recurved bows quite difficult to make. It took a long time to develop to that point. - The recurve are all these reflex and deflex, But that can only be created What we mean by that is it's The heart of it is wood, And then you have horn-- and then sinew-- That, when you bash it, and get these very fibers with tremendous That has elasticity and spring, and it stops the bow These are all materials that of the bow. narrator: But only a very big problem. How to keep such a powerful different materials when its own power Somewhere in Eurasia, some unknown genius - This is the swim bladder fish from the Black Sea. And if you start to break these and you get this wonderful, This simple idea of making of a fish was of immense consequences. It is what enabled And in turn the composite bow of far-reaching consequences. narrator: The composite to a new kind of warrior-- the horse archer. - The horse archer was able in part because of the composite bow. They were short, and that meant that you can You see I can cross I can turn and shoot behind. It's much more suitable [dramatic music] narrator: Everyone who fought whether as enemy or friend, wanted a recurved By the early first it was in use from east Asia A recurved bow unprecedented killing power. But it didn't make him Before horse archers could military force, of identical arrows. And that didn't exist. - Arrowheads were a variety Some were made of bone. Some were made Some were made out of bronze. All of them would be and you had to adjust of different arrows. Also a unit of soldiers who would be firing arrows and they might go [dramatic music] - One of the technological of the socketed, uh, arrowhead. They were made of bronze, they were made in a mould so that an infinite number of the same weight could be Making socketed was actually a big deal. You have to have a mould with is going to be that you can so that it's the same narrator: Making arrowheads was another Central Asian For the first time, unleash coordinated arrow - With arrowheads every time you drew you knew that you were firing the same weight as the last so you could determine the And also all of the archers were firing arrowheads at the same time. So the distance for all narrator: Archaeologists in the second socketed bronze arrowheads while the composite recurved [dramatic music] Sometime around 900 B.C.E., and recurved bows met of Central Asia, brought together by traders, and migrating nomads. - After about 700 B.C., thousands and thousands and dozens of arrowheads It's like they're being narrator: Bronze socketed into an arsenal, but cavalries still until warriors could - It was really the age individuals going out by themselves and attracting and this is the kind in the &quot;Iliad&quot; uh, or in the &quot;Rigveda,&quot; that's at the deep roots What had to change was in the nature of the warrior. You had to change working under the command who would attack The psychological change to the soldier, uh, probably the armies that were the great cities of That psychology had to spread and be accepted by warriors uh, in the same area where and the socketed arrowheads narrator: While recurved bows and socketed arrowheads the concept was spreading north. Sometime around 900 B.C.E., in the heart of central Asia. - When those three things cavalry became of military force. narrator: A force that the ancient world's 2,000 years ago, to expand their empire, China was pushing west. And like the Romans, a formidable enemy The Xiongnu were nomads from Armed with recurved bows they fought under commanders as a disciplined [shouting] They raided Chinese villages and plundered the growing and no one could stop them. - The Xiongnu was the migraine for the Chinese. They simply just kept coming, and they would not stop. The Xiongnu wanted the finest produced by the Chinese. [horse whinnying] [shouting] That is why they raided. - Imagine you're a villager come from nowhere. They come from over the hill tearing into your village. They shoot your husband. There is no hiding place, and there's a flurry They're in and they're out and they go. [shouting] narrator: China sent against the Xiongnu. The famed Terracotta Warriors of Chinese armies. But the Chinese fought on foot Not effective against A Chinese courtier wrote a flock of birds over the - Once mounted warfare really it became a real problem. If you're a farmer, going to be all the time. Your house is in the same place and when your crops you have to harvest, and the nomads know Whereas when you're trying it's impossible to know or when they're going You have to search narrator: the Chinese needed soldiers They needed cavalry. - There are manuals of warfare Chinese warriors on and the methods Those manuals introduced to the Chinese military. The Chinese military had not before about probably 350 B.C. - Chinese military at first from the old aristocratic &quot;Well, my father &quot;and his father fought &quot;and I'm gonna fight in my long robes narrator: But it wasn't long traded their traditional long, for shorter tunics of fighting on horseback. - Eventually the practicalities of their robes, to learn to shoot the bow and they, too, became a mighty narrator: Chinese cavalry the recurved composite bow and a lethal Chinese weapon, While its cavalry trained, to Xiongnu demands for until the year 133 B.C.E., when Emperor Han Wudi And sent his army to attack [shouting] [horse whinnying] Chinese cavalry defeated And China seized new Pacifying trade routes - On one hand we have this in Chinese culture and the Han Chinese that created incessant warfare. On the other hand, that demolished Even territory boundaries being pushed farther, pushed This was a stimulus for exchanges, for new ideas, narrator: It was also A fortune in Roman gold for Chinese silks. And the Central made its own fortune selling jade. Silk Road caravans passed on China's western frontier. So many of them that this station became Chinese aristocrats coveted and something more. They believed that jade would The ruling elite commissioned to preserve their bodies - They believed that upon should be plugged in inside the person. And this notion of jade as power in the afterlife by the fact that they built of pieces of jade. And of course if you're your--your jade armor would be from the western regions. narrator: During Silk Road trade flourished as Chinese, Persian, kept the trade routes open [dramatic music] China had leveled with nomad raiders But Central Asian horse their names on history. In the 4th century C.E., by a Central Asian people barbaric cruelty. [shouting] The Huns, who fought all the way to Rome. European peoples like the so-called barbarians-- and sought refuge When the Huns withdrew those barbarian [shouting] And the rest is history. narrator: was plunged into chaos as barbarian tribes, rebelled against and weak Roman emperors As Rome declined, called the Avars out of eastern Europe... Bringing with them another The stirrup. This Chinese statue from is the earliest known Some 300 years later, with these stirrups By the eighth century C.E., from one end of Eurasia and mounted warfare - The importance of to what kinds of weapons and it made it possible from horseback that you Those weapons are You have to lean over if you're going to use And the stirrups allow the shock of contact The other big weapon that was a seated lance You could stab somebody with riding past them But if you seated it under the lance as a shock weapon, the back of the horse if you So stirrups made it possible and lances as shock weapons and keep your seat, and of course to have really heavy - Now the rider becomes He's so anchored anchored with this, and then with his long a single projectile unit. [dramatic music] Man, horse, saddle, lance, for the impact charge. This was the age [horse whinnying] narrator: A medieval knight's the Asian stirrup and of the Persian cataphract articulated plate armor. [horse whinnying] Strong enough to protect and lance thrusts while light to move freely on horseback Heavy cavalry had never been - Medieval mounted warfare a lot of force on the rider, high impact warfare. In that case, the mounted really as a shock weapon narrator: But even Europe's would be outfought that burst out of the steppes - The largest conquest empire was created by pastoral nomads narrator: In the 13th century, as far west as Poland as the Sea of Japan. Mongol armies combined of horse archers military organization. narrator: The Mongols have as bloodthirsty killers, but they were open-minded, They pacified the Silk Road. Trade between west and east Mongol-enforced peace-- - Before the age banditry was a very serious for caravans, The reputation of Genghis Khan created peace and safe passage because bandits were so afraid of the Mongol soldiers. - The Pax Mongolica, the--the, uh, control of, uh, trade and exchange that under the Mongols connected and with the Near East for the first time and that had a profound of European civilization. narrator: Protected and anxious for good relations Europeans began traveling east Merchants, missionaries, along the trade routes, bringing back popular Asian and tales of the wealth Some true, some fabulous, From Europe to China, new knowledge - The Silk Road made human there are other people out of the east and the west. narrator: The Italian cities reaped huge rewards. Their merchants traveled and founded trading posts and pass on Silk Road goods. Their Silk Road profits funded magnificent art But their competition into war with one another. In one of these wars, a prosperous Venetian merchant Imprisoned by the Genoese, of his Silk Road journey - [speaking Italian] narrator: Today, experts really visited China or was he had heard from fellow - [speaking Italian] But there's no debate that was one of the most in all of human history. It tantalized Europe immense wealth - [speaking Italian] narrator: And years before those tales - [speaking Italian] narrator: A Chinese invention across Eurasia to the west. Something created when an experiment Ancient Chinese alchemists or mercury for their who believed that would help them Instead, those or made them insane. Another deadly combination heated with found in soil known today as saltpeter. When alchemists experimented it burst into flame, [explosion] And burning down From that disaster was born like none other. It may have failed but it would prove to be This Chinese Buddhist scroll depicts demons surrounding One demon holds what the or fire lance. It's the earliest known image deadly mixture of saltpeter Known to history as gunpowder. [shouting] In the early 13th century, China's Jin Dynasty. The Jin Dynasty's army with exploding But as the Mongols conquered Han Chinese artillerymen and marched west, bringing their gunpowder The Mongols attacked Russian with exploding fire bombs. [explosions] And Europeans what gunpowder could do. By the end the formula for gunpowder as England, their own versions It wasn't long before this changed European history. On 26th August, 1346 in northern France, and England Mounted on their war steeds, the flower of French nobility [horse whinnying] While the English deployed Thousands of expert archers. The French sent their higher to attack the English before French knights But the English king, had spent years training And all that training [grunting, shouting] - Nothing like this on a western battlefield The first time that a volley by the archers at Crecy something completely new in the French army A cloud of arrows It would have been frightening, and of course the effects narrator: Showered the Genoese turned and ran, and according to Medieval they were also panicked [explosion] - Giovanni Villani, writing says in his chronicle that was the noise created that they thought God [explosions] - The English guns cast iron They made a noise like thunder in men and horses. [shouting] - Noise like that would have to the soldiers Nothing in their lives could a bang of that size and accompanied by smoke which would hang in the air. The impact of which, they couldn't see until men Not even professional soldiers experienced anything like That would have and it's no wonder that - They turned and fled into French cavalry charge. The French cavalry were now and they were appalled running away. And they cursed them and as many Genoese as they did to English And the French Knights, double the size they came charging [horses whinnying] And they, too, fell and the English gunshot, and they came again 15, 16 times, they came. And their horses were ripped were thrown from their horses. And those that weren't thrown, that the dagger men rushed in and they brought This was a moment in history It spelled the beginning of the narrator: The Battle of Crecy as one of the earliest uses on a European battlefield. [explosion] Some 500 years a Chinese alchemist's gunpowder had become After Crecy, until the fates of peoples were decided by the gun. [gunfire] Within two centuries, their powerful gunpowder Creating empires into today's global Which binds people together by But before Europe could embark on its empire-building its medieval social order by a catastrophic event. One that would forge in a crucible of horror. While guns thundered at Crecy, along the Eurasian Something that would kill tens An apocalyptic destruction that would lay the foundations (Tense music) (Horses neighing) NARRATOR: At the Battle of Crecy the English won an historic Helped by a Chinese invention (Hollering) NARRATOR: (Yelling) (Dramatic music) (Horses neighing) NARRATOR: some 2,000 kilometres another battle on the shores (Hollering) NARRATOR: A Mongol army to the Crimean port city a Silk Road trading post belonging to NARRATOR: The Mongols were masters But Caffa after more than two years. Suddenly, the Mongol army Not by Caffa's defenders, The Mongols quickly ended But before they left Caffa, they loaded with the corpses and flung them over believing that would kill the defenders. Medieval chronicles say did die by the thousands, but not from (Tense music) NARRATOR: the same disease that had was killing people (Computer beeping) NARRATOR: it was killing people By 1350, it was killing people (Soft music) NARRATOR: And terrified Europeans NARRATOR: In just under a decade, the Black Death killed One third Today, most scholars believe was an outbreak that was transmitted to humans by infected fleas And we believe that by hitching a ride with along trade routes by the time Micro-organic travellers have moved across Eurasia A bio-migration that has had as the more famous exchanges of new technologies And as tiny living things brought life as well as death. MARTIN: We were putting together of looking for and for that we needed of all the finds When you looked at a map then you could see there in small numbers NARRATOR: &quot;Very early on&quot; when a Chinese grain called in the Eastern European MARTIN: The actual crop itself but, uh, rather fortunately, and over-burnt, That will stay in for a long time. (Dramatic music) NARRATOR: In the Chinese province archaeologists are studying of broomcorn millet, one of the world's NARRATOR: But it isn't clear broomcorn millet travelled thousands of kilometres through some of the world's all the way to Europe. Millet's long journey simply because Millets are but they're very small. And because they have they're hardy and they can grow quite fast. Broomcorn millet, at a push, can get from seed to seed You can plant a seed and 45 days later, you may have plants. So if you're moving around where, on the one hand, a short growing season, particularly rely on rainfall, then something that in terms of its growth cycle (Horse chuffing) MARTIN: There are accounts that are on horseback and herding animals but for that short-- that millet grows in, uh, they can actually trample it in and then either leave to scare the birds off come back two months later, (Dramatic music) NARRATOR: Millet was but there wasn't any evidence from its home NARRATOR: Until archaeologists found around 2500 BCE of the Tian Shan Mountains (Tense music) MARTIN: At that point &quot;Well--well, what is it You know, Clearly, it's about water. If one travels across one realizes And wherever you are in Asia, it can be very dry, But if one goes uphill then one has somewhere running off the mountains NARRATOR: Archaeologists found millet farmers left and their reliable and began moving into MARTIN: We can, see, uh, of farmers spreading out is really safe to areas where about the water and the both into the steppe and to the desert NARRATOR: may have linked it Migrating millet farmers may have settled And long-distance travellers near reliable sources MARTIN: I think very much are definitely working that are already It's at least a millennium before you see that you can start calling NARRATOR: that this ancient wasn't only from east to west. NARRATOR: Trading millet and wheat may have done much more (Soft music) NARRATOR: It may also have enabled MARTIN: Seeds germinate and are harvested and that's kind of And so farming is and there are things going on And during a number of societies which is and that is putting more than Crops like millet in that if you are with wheat and barley fields reaching maturity and you think, &quot;Right, &quot;I want &quot;And so I want another crop after I've harvested You can't do a long season, large-grain crop so something that's short you can tag on and catch another season (Soft music) Interestingly, when you get You have this short season crop and by rearranging your life, you can bring such as wheat and barley So the implications are, you could basically get So two sets of calories It may release some to not farm at all and or as craftspeople, or leaders. (Dramatic music) MARTIN: If we look at what we certainly see as multi-cropping is there, then there are a lot are not farmers, or kings, or priests, And so what we see evidence of a non-farming, uh, sector MARTIN: not very but because of the way it grows it has a massive impact of the heartlands So those western farmlands produce two crops and that enabled that we associate (Soft music) NARRATOR: Finding Chinese millet and European wheat suggests that East and West were introducing and that the movement of crops the earliest And in the deserts archaeologists have discovered living organisms This is an archaeological site a major stopping point 2,000 years ago Xuanquanzhi was a very busy PIERS: It would be used and it would also be used People could travel knowing that there was and be refreshed and recover, and then move on The wonderful thing about was that it's in that is not built up now, very, very dry and often means that things are So a lot of the things with-- have--have survived NARRATOR: Excavators were especially that perhaps only an The 2,000-year-old equivalent PIERS: In China, they wrote back in-- how they would have a stick for people to wipe and there were quite a few thrown into the latrine, discarded them in there These sticks have been found at some other excavations but what's great about is we still have the cloth and we still have (Tense music) PIERS: So we scraped off the dried and took them to the lab. We found four different in those who used this latrine. Two of the species faeces contaminating your food It's roundworm Another species that they probably acquired by eating raw And then, we found which was PIERS: that lives in eastern and It can only survive But here, we found it from anywhere that has So it wasn't It was brilliant that we could The liver fluke where it passes through and through small fish, And if you cook the fish, then But if you eat the fish raw, in your stomach, crawls into the liver, There was no way of this relay station in that particular area There were no lakes. There were no and fish for them to infect. NARRATOR: have shown that long distances (Soft music) NARRATOR: what could happen In 2009, German scientists began investigating in the Bavarian town NARRATOR: was an archaeological enigma, The bodies had been buried (Computer beeping) (Tense music) NARRATOR: a terrifying illness called ravaged the NARRATOR: It killed 30 to 50 in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Nearly half of all NARRATOR: arrived in Constantinople but what the disease was and where it came from The team investigating hoped its bones NARRATOR: Studies like have concluded that 800 years plague travelled the Silk Road and that centuries later, the Black Death (Tense music) NARRATOR: Most scholars now agree originated in central Asia and that it first on Italian merchant ships NARRATOR: The Black Death killed Victims had only a week Entire towns and monasteries and no one knew what to do. PIERS: It may have spread which is a lot faster of modern Whether it was because at which people fled from it that spread it faster than it And it certainly had a dramatic effect They all wrote about it. (Speaking foreign language) (Soft music) PIERS: So they had some concept and the idea that from one person to another, They had no idea about bacteria or the spread of so they hadn't worked out But they just realized seemed to be able to spread it so they realized something (Tense music) NARRATOR: Baffled physicians of ancient authorities who lived four centuries and Galen, who lived two (Tense music) NARRATOR: Hippocrates and Galen believed of an imbalance among blood, phlegm, yellow bile, PIERS: The theory was that if you had your blood, your phlegm, and your yellow bile, If they came out of balance of one of your humours, then So the treatments were largely based on their understanding So at the beginning, they of dietary modification and so on, (Dramatic music) PIERS: They believed that bad vapours making people ill, They believed that was a bad thing That it was a combination of because they believed and its effect They really didn't have to how to deal with it. No one knew The doctors were (Indistinct shouting) NARRATOR: Some citizens Jews in Europe suffered That may have been because and practiced better hygiene But surviving the Black Death cost thousands All across the already age-old Christian exploded into murderous hatred. PIERS: They believed that people may have actually exacerbated So this is a sign and how worried everybody was, really quite bizarre as to why everybody (Indistinct yelling) NARRATOR: physicians tried to stop When traditional theories they resorted to studying (Tense music) NARRATOR: They were desperate what was causing how it spread, Slowly, they found answers. PIERS: but no medicines But that's why to trying to restrict burning the clothes of people rather than giving them And they realized that the was an important way they could So we have the introduction where people weren't allowed to if there was a plague outbreak and also that when sailors they may have to stay for a certain number of days to be clear of the disease, move inland NARRATOR: Over time, this new would spawn Some 200 years the brilliant physician published meticulous studies that exploded ancient and gave birth Europe's battle taught lessons that helped And even centuries later, the Black Death So this is a skull of a man who survived the Black Death in the later part We know he survived we have a radiocarbon date and we know he was (Tense music) One of the things looking at the effect upon the British population, And what we're trying to about people who survived That way, we can work out really changed and what our population had half of us not died And to do that, the height, the health, of the skeletons that we find who died before and the ones so we can see the effect upon people in Britain. So what we're hoping to about the genes of the people Did they somehow have to bubonic plague or was it just mere chance as (Tense music) NARRATOR: Those who did survive as the greatest horror of their NARRATOR: The Black Death had decimated Desperate for labour, for surviving workers (Soft music) PIERS: we see a complete So the poor hungry farmers were suddenly The farmers Their income could go up because they could farm And so there was less poverty NARRATOR: Opportunities increased Women could now be scribes and hold other jobs The European middle class The fact that we able to do manual labour did the price so then they had better income. It also means that a number of inventions for labour-saving devices. We find the introduction We find horizontal looms. We had blast furnaces, and we have three-masted ships that could hold for only a small number so it's a much more So over the next we see big improvements And the fact that-- meant that these things of the shortage of people (Soft music) NARRATOR: created a bigger market (Indistinct chatter) NARRATOR: Especially for one traded since ancient times (Bright music) NARRATOR: NARRATOR: Asian spices like pepper, were highly valuable (Indistinct chatter) NARRATOR: In London, were paid In Venice, people NARRATOR: Anyone brave enough could get very, very rich. And trading in spices meant between East and West. NARRATOR: Venetian merchants and dominated the spice trade. Europe had to pay Venice became while the rest of Europe (Soft music) Meanwhile, China was also to the spice lands some of the world's most During the 13th foreign visitors to China and sophistication In the year 1345, the Moroccan wrote of seeing massive ships that could carry the only ships big enough to make the long journey (Speaking Italian) NARRATOR: And Marco Polo told spice trading vessel The experience He claimed was capable of holding 5,000 a much bigger cargo of his native Venice And that his vessel that could carry (Tense music) NARRATOR: from the Chinese port a place he described as teeming from China But he didn't report leaving historians to wonder if he'd exaggerated or even if he'd And then, in 1973, found a shipwreck NARRATOR: The Quanzhou Ship from Java and Cambodia, frankincense from Arabia, even ambergris from Somalia. (Soft music) NARRATOR: just 15 years before And its design and construction for their time, featuring and other innovations centuries before NARRATOR: 35 metres long the Quanzhou Ship one of the smaller vessels that escorted (Tense music) NARRATOR: that very large Chinese NARRATOR: This park in the Chinese city on the remains of a shipyard When they excavated archaeologists found each of them NARRATOR: Chinese records speak carrying trade goods on Commanded by the distinguished a Chinese armada made seven voyages between From Liugiagang the fleet sailed on diplomatic the great Indian seaport and along Africa's east coast, that linked seaborne Over 300 ships sailed on the first (Dramatic music) NARRATOR: claim that the largest were over 130 metres long NARRATOR: ships that big The American clipper ship launched in 1853, was 102 metres long In 1872, her leaking hull The &quot;Wyoming,&quot; built in 1909, was 110 metres long. (Soft music) NARRATOR: structurally unstable In 1924, the &quot;Wyoming&quot; If Zheng He's treasure ships were as big as Chinese they would have been as long and longer NARRATOR: the Great Fleet maritime trading nations China seemed poised to dominate But in 1433, About the same time, began losing interest and Chinese seafaring Scarcely more than 100 years after the Great Fleet's the emperor declared and it wasn't long suffered another blow. (Computer beeping) NARRATOR: By the middle the once-mighty was in deep decline. The Ottoman Turks, descendants had conquered most The Byzantine emperor ruled only his capital (Tense music) NARRATOR: In the Spring of 1453, laid siege to Constantinople. (Clamouring) NARRATOR: The city was defended Mehmed had an army but Mehmed wasn't sure The city's massive walls had withstood sieges Protected by those walls, Constantinople's defenders (Clamouring) NARRATOR: But Mehmed didn't He had a mega-weapon: a bronze cannon with a barrel and 20 centimetres thick. It's said it could hurl stone cannonball This behemoth bombarded Constantinople's damaging them so badly that the Turks succeeded (Clamouring) (Soft music) NARRATOR: The fall of Constantinople was Constantinople had been oldest and holiest cities. Now it was the capital renamed Istanbul from a Turkish From their new capital the Ottomans now controlled and the eastern Mediterranean. Europeans merchants were For nearly 100 years, Europeans and more and more eager Europe needed to find (Tense music) NARRATOR: of Constantinople's fall, At the Battle of Crecy and An ancient had helped transform (Soft music) NARRATOR: Now another Chinese invention would help transform NARRATOR: Sometime in China's some unknown person (water running) NARRATOR: By pounding plants (wet thudding) (flames crackling) NARRATOR: Then boiling them (flames crackling) (water sloshing) NARRATOR: And then on a screen making what the ancient Chinese And what we know today an invention so influential that some believe the Silk Road should have been named for it. JONATHAN: because I think paper was and that, you know It's very strong; lustrous, and stuff like that. But it didn't have the impact I would argue, that paper did. The Chinese believe that the court eunuch Cai Lun invented paper around the year and started using it Chinese archaeologists, have discovered in the deserts of western China that pre-date this perhaps three centuries NARRATOR: first used the new invention while they kept writing on strips of bamboo. JONATHAN: You can write so many on a strip of bamboo 40 centimetres long, The problem is, if you want to or a long historical text, you need to have a whole pile and keep them together So that becomes heavy. Paper, which is made from the cellulose in plants, can be made So you can make it virtually out of virtually anything. NARRATOR: By the early centuries China was using paper even as facial tissue And it wasn't long before it along the Silk Road-- a journey that JONATHAN: The transformation of paper came just at the time that Buddhism Buddhists of China in finding the original and would travel to India And so, it's thought that the Chinese Buddhist monks brought knowledge of paper with them to India to collect and brought them back to China. NARRATOR: travelled to India detouring around the Himalayas and turning the Silk Road oasis into a magnificent In a desert without plants, Dunhuang monks made paper and copied they'd brought from India. Thanks to Chinese Buddhism and to paper's for keeping papermaking began to spread As the Chinese throughout East Asia, they took knowledge to such places as Korea, We know that this is certainly before the time of Central Asia, which occurred NARRATOR: Arab armies fighting in the thrust deep into Central Asia and clashed During the same century, the Arab world something that's with a story about an iconic (swords clanging) The Battle of Talas between Muslim forces in central Asia in 751. According to the historian who lived something like he says that at this battle, Chinese papermakers and that is how Muslims learned It seems to me but not terribly Why would papermakers It's not as if, when then you said, &quot;Please, (swords clanging, NARRATOR: It's more likely by trading along the Silk Road and recognized Middle Easterners could write but they had to buy papyrus Paper By the end Arab papermaking JONATHAN: The break-out moment for paper Muslim bureaucracy NARRATOR: Those bureaucrats founded around 750 C.E. From their capital in Baghdad, the Abbasids ruled JONATHAN: The administrators had responsibility about who was paid what, who owned what, Less than a century of Muslims first encountering it they were already making it NARRATOR: And they quickly for more In eighth-century Baghdad the availability of cheap paper made possible one of humanity's JONATHAN: Baghdad becomes where books are written, books are translated People wrote books not only on words in but also cookbooks, astronomy, geography, translations of Greek books all sorts of subjects. And this explosion of learning but it's never that it was based on NARRATOR: an intellectual Golden Age Muslim, Jewish, collaborated to translate, great works of science, One story about the library of the Cordovan Caliphate in the year 960 or 970 says that there were in the royal library. Now, that probably So let's take a zero off it and say that there were but that is still the number of books that was in the largest several centuries later. Because libraries in Europe and the libraries in NARRATOR: Europeans first But Italian merchants through long-distance trade. This is a time when Christian from such cities are travelling to such as Cairo and Damascus in search of exotic items, goods like spices and silks, and they undoubtedly Our first European would've been Muslims using this stuff NARRATOR: But at first, many Europeans It seemed so flimsy made from animal skins. The Holy Roman Emperor for example, but didn't think much of its or didn't know so he ordered previously been copied on paper Similarly, Peter the Venerable, &quot;Oh, it was really disgusting &quot;that they made this stuff &quot;from vile materials rather than the pure reeds meaning papyrus, or the And he was worried that paper could be made from dirty NARRATOR: But Europe's growing was not concerned A single parchment book and cost a fortune. And as it happened, the edge (bell tolling distantly) (water sloshing) JONATHAN: tended not to flow fast enough whereas the greater variability meant that you could more efficiently Europeans also had a ready supply In the late Middle Ages, a new way of processing linen using something called which meant that there was being made from flax and (fabric ripping) JONATHAN: Linen underwear than woollen underwear and so linen became and became the source of rags NARRATOR: Italian hill towns had become Europe's leading shipping tons of paper throughout Europe. (machinery clanking) NARRATOR: And this mass production was changing Europe One of the most that I've seen, is a poem by Petrarch, It's on paper. And it is crossed out. He wrote out the poem and he put in a better word. So he was able to compose, in effect on paper, as opposed to composing it repeating it until he got it perfect a fair copy on This is something because it was too expensive. You'd have to scrape it off. Paper allowed all sorts of new ways It seems to me that the art of drawing really develops JONATHAN: to actually do a drawing and work out an idea and preserve it for later use, or to look at it and say, &quot;I'll change this; And save it And we know that Michelangelo, did drawings of his drawings or did drawings of This wouldn't have been because it was too expensive NARRATOR: the country that had had developed a technology from a laborious job into a standardized process: Printing. In the ninth century C.E., Chinese printers were printing carved from The world's oldest printed book is this Chinese copy of printed in the year 868 C.E. Some 400 years later, Asian woodblock printing had travelled the Silk Road But by then, a more efficient way Instead of carving a single printers engraved with individual baked the clay letters and then arranged them to create a book page... The earliest known use And then, in the year 1440, Johannes Gutenberg, a goldsmith came up with a new way Gutenberg began a wooden screw that pushed invented by the Romans and used in Gutenberg's time He made his own moveable type by punching letters and casting them he'd invented himself. He devised a system lines of type in trays. And he invented a new that transferred easily Gutenberg's new was much faster than Asian printing techniques. But its biggest advantage The Latin alphabet. JONATHAN: In Chinese and so you have to have like in order to print something. In Europe, where with individual letters that are not connected and you only have 26 of them and you have upper case capital letters you don't really need that many NARRATOR: If ever a new technology it was Gutenberg's Within a few years of millions of Europeans and other best-selling books translated into something we take for granted. But in 15th-century Europe, Working together, had achieved something They had (speaking German) NARRATOR: and its new ability to meet that demand would soon In Germany, a firebrand monk wrote a list of 95 proposals for reforming as the corrupt practices Thanks to paper his ideas spread like wildfire And so began a spiritual revolt thousand-year monopoly And some other helped an Italian living His name was Cristobal Colon, and he was deeply disturbed that the holy cities had fallen under the rule Colon drew up plans for a new To fund it, to trade for spices he could sell NARRATOR: had blocked Europeans Colon needed to find His deep study of two books, &quot;The Travels of Marco Polo&quot; and the ancient Greek author convinced him by sailing West And when he landed Colon, known to history was sure he'd found it. In fact, it wouldn't be that the Portuguese explorer rounded Africa's and sailed east to India, discovering the true sea route But the new world proved to have riches By the middle the Portuguese had established with China And Spain's American colonies were sending that there was hardly any room Spain was sending it on especially the Netherlands, as payment for trade goods. Their pockets bursting Europeans became addicted One was porcelain, an extraordinary ceramic made by firing at very high temperatures, well over China had been making porcelain and trading it throughout Asia since at least In the 17th century, the Dutch captured filled with porcelain and held a giant It was the beginning with Chinese ceramics or, as they became known &quot;fine China.&quot; It was a status symbol and they had never But also, they certainly NARRATOR: Porcelain imports to consuming craved by Europeans: Tea. Like porcelain, tea had been since at least to the Middle East The Portuguese began trading in the 16th century. In 1657, a London merchant By the year 1700, tea-drinking had become heavily promoted by which traded and needed to bring back to Britain. And as Chinese tea Europeans began trading (children laughing) NARRATOR: dozens of never-before seen from the Americas-- potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn, peanuts, pineapples, began appearing Some of these new foods than just the appeal Corn, potatoes, grew in harsh like the South American Andes. Chinese farmers soon would survive that wiped out starving large numbers It's no coincidence after the introduction China's population and kept growing until China became the world's And the new sea routes brought even more to China An Italian named Matteo Ricci arrived in China in 1582 and spent Ricci was and his mission to China produced one of history's meetings of minds. Ricci learned to speak, read, and formed deep friendships One of Matteo Ricci's and first converts was the mathematician AGNES: who is known in Vatican history met him around the time And in 1603, my ancestor converted NARRATOR: Working together, translated works from the ancient Greek mathematician and other classics of Western science They also translated Ricci wrote to his superiors asking them to send but only their smartest men. In China, he wrote, &quot;We are dealing with a people Xu Guangqi himself a highly accomplished But the introduction opened his eyes a different way of NARRATOR: a member a new Catholic order of the European Renaissance. Jesuit priests were trained as well as in theology. As missionaries, and worked with non-Christian beliefs. From the 16th nearly a thousand Jesuits teaching everything to mathematics to geography and sending back of Chinese learning to Europe, giving Europe its first of Chinese civilization and China its first Chinese and Europeans with each other's King Louis XIV of France sent French Jesuits And Chinese emperors to important For more than 100 years, Jesuit astronomers directed the Imperial One of them, the German helped create that predicted solar and lunar He also introduced to a new European invention, The Belgian priest built an aqueduct, made European-style cannons and built a steam-powered considered by some to be the world's earliest In 1674, with a new map of the world. The collaborative product of it was more than just a map. It was an expression A worldview based on science, and confidence in to invent, A worldview Arguably the most of that age is Voltaire. And in his essay which was first published he argued that China of Enlighted monarchy ruled by intellectuals. It challenges that the Christian was the beginning and the centre of civilization. China, in Voltaire's mind, was a civilization and ruled by men Through virtue, and through their scholarly their merits; not by hereditary rights. (gunfire, faint shouting) NARRATOR: Europeans were fighting for the right By 1800, political revolutions had ended centuries New technologies and the steam engine and the rise were connecting And an ancient Chinese that had spread westward was playing a critical role. (men shouting faintly, gunfire) NARRATOR: Gunpowder had made (cannon booms) (gunshot) NARRATOR: And in mineral-rich areas it was helping to create the modern world. At the beginning these mountains and crowded with miners chasing rumours of riches (Francis speaking French) (water dripping) NARRATOR: In the accounting books archaeologists discovered recording the purchase to do something revolutionary-- blast a mine tunnel (water dripping) (speaking French) NARRATOR: By the beginning gunpowder was helping from laborious hand digging supplying Europe's And across the Atlantic, it was about to help unlock its vast On July 4, 1817, the United States of America's crews in New York State the Erie Canal, a nearly 600-kilometre designed to connect with the Hudson River so towns and farms could ship and sell Most of the canal route and the canal builders digging through soft soil. But 50 kilometres the landscape suddenly changed. By 1824, And what they encountered of a very hard rock 10 or 12 miles from here, there was more anywhere else in This is the same rock that forms the lip It's as if they were climbing in order to get canal boats and onto Lake Erie NARRATOR: Lifting canal boats to the level of Lake Erie meant raising them The only way to do that was by But cutting those locks with picks and shovels would have been You can chip away but it would've taken years to whittle down, through this rock. Without explosives, They weren't gonna reach their ultimate goal they weren't gonna be able to open the Great Lakes They needed some way to move NARRATOR: Using gunpowder the canal builders excavated But gunpowder's work As soon as the canal diggers reached the height they had to lower the channel so the lake would flow and keep it full of water. Behind me you're looking at in Erie Canal construction. It's not terribly It's not like the locks. But this, cutting this slot, the Deep Cut was the last major challenge before the canal builders and the one that took them The Deep Cut required them to cut a vertical slot something anywhere else on the entire They probably more explosives in these than they used in the rest of (explosion) DUNCAN: There are lots of stories about anything from raining down this hail of rock every time And the blasting went on (explosion) DUNCAN: Construction workers There were residents There are newspaper accounts of women being killed while they were simply walking from one house NARRATOR: the Deep Cut was finished was officially Before roads and railroads had penetrated the Erie Canal made possible the westward economic expansion of the young United States. And the digging had another It would play a key role the American seaport into the modern world's The Erie Canal from being one of several competing with Philadelphia, to the head of the pack. New York became a world leader and all the other that go along things like insurance and the grain exchange, that all happened in New York because the Erie Canal of the interior of a continent to the Atlantic NARRATOR: New York had become Spawned and sustained the megacity and becomes a world city, encompassing human diversity. New York's evolution of forces that have been set in motion and sustained by the East-West commerce A path through history human beings together AGNES: was like a ray of light. It opened our eyes, to intangible ideas, to beautiful things, to beautiful thoughts. NARRATOR: Today, the ancient tale seems like the story But in fact, it's just as much a story of the future. Two or three times a week, a train departs It's loaded with Chinese- and its route takes it across in Central Asia (train whistle blows) NARRATOR: one of several destinations over distances of some Loaded up with European it returns to China. The Yiwu Railway is pioneering On 14 May 2017, China hosted a conference to promote its &quot;One Belt, Attending were delegates including the heads of the the World Bank, and nearly 30 heads of state. Known as OBOR, One Belt, One Road a $1 trillion U.S. dollar that will connect 2/3 of the world's population, and 1/3 of the world's GDP. Inspired by the Old Silk Road, it will re-establish overland and by sea. And it will also create On August 1, 2017, China's Tianzhou-1 released the nano-satellite SilkRoad-1 01 CubeSat SilkRoad-1 is a pathfinder for a constellation operating across (rocket roaring) NARRATOR: These satellites and reliable satellite that will provide mapping and remote sensing technology to all the cities and to other countries (speaking foreign language) (rocket roars) (speaking foreign language) (Yang Liwei (Zhou Jianping NARRATOR: the movement of goods, people, across Eurasia in shaping human destiny. And it may soon be helping