- Hey! Hey, hey, hey, Tonight, the boys of the 91st learned a very important lesson. And what did they learn? Hm? That you do not mess with - Mm-hmm. - [All] You do not mess with Woo-ah! (bottles clinking) (lively upbeat music) - Plans go to hell soon as so your first shot I'm the only non-Marine to win the USMC 1,000 Yard Invitational, and I still know Lowrey - Do you think this unit's - Maybe. - Then why'd you grab a bunch of people with no police experience, Major Reacher? - Reacher. - Sorry. - Army wanted a unit for particularly complex To do that, I need Special Investigators, not generic MPs. (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (body thuds) - It's just business. - You think that makes it better? - Yes, I do. Between the seller of the gun or the user, I prefer to be the seller. The base mindset that to actually pull the trigger is no better- (gun fires) (intense music) (machine whirring) (beeps) (guns firing) - Those are sharp, right? - Very sharp. - So if he was dealing with something that could get him killed, you'd have to put it in a place that was very secure, Somewhere in plain sight but a place no one would suspect. - Okay. (helicopter whirring) - No, no. Wait. - You better hold this thing steady or we're gonna find out the - Yes, ma'am. - So what's a place that we entrust every day This is a mailbox key. - I ever tell you you're smart, Neagley? - Not nearly enough. - Oh, my god, that's it. It's days and months. - What is, those pages? - There's seven sheets, right? On each sheet there's 26 or - If you say so. - And if you run them all together, you could fit everything on but clearly they wanted seven. (tense music) - Not enough to cover your slow (beeps) if you're planning on running outta here. - You're gonna have to make do. - On three. - One, two, three. (tense music) - So knowing that each page is a specific calculation of data, it makes it even more relevant that all of the pages One has 27. Why? - I've understood nothing since you said, &quot;Oh, my God.&quot; - It's days and months, right? Each page is a month, seven of them, but not every month has But if you work six days a week, that totals 26 or 27 days, depending on which day starts or ends on. - Right? - What kind of test, and where? - It doesn't say, but they do note that Senator Malcolm Lavoy to get the congressional votes to make Little Wing a reality. And I quote, &quot;He fully believes &quot;at New Age and will do - Lavoy would fully if you pay him enough. - You know this guy? - By reputation. In D.C., Lavoy's what's His politics and his vote go whichever way the wind's blowing. He's known to do some shady (beeps). - Thanks for ordering. There's still steam coming off the cup. - Tracked the plane You don't check bags and Had the coffee poured 90 seconds ago, food's been there three minutes. - Appreciate it. Where'd you get this? - I'm a PI. I can get things. (tense music) (man groaning) (tense music) - I dunno. I like my Glock 17. - That is a Glock 17. - I said, &quot;My Glock 17.&quot; Okay. I like the feel. (Reacher scoffs) What was that? Just listening to a .200 hitter - Hey, I'm a great shot. - You're average, at best. Bull (beeps). Dixon back me up here. That time in Biloxi- - Was the luckiest shot I've ever seen. - Thank you. - Man, you couldn't hit a - Screw you guys. (tense music) - I see you're still using brass knuckles. No more switchblade. - Look down. - Hey, O'Donnell. - Hey, Neagley. Mainly unsavory, but legal, things they do in private that they'd rather not get made public. My job is to make sure that their personal And the people who know secrets, - So, you blackmail? - I incentivize. - Sounds sleazy, O'D. - It's sleazy-adjacent. Hey, I got private school I never break the law. I simply present the facts to people and let 'em know which if they choose the wrong course of action. - She's not the scooch-in type. - Can you zoom in a little? - [Clerk] I can pop it in, but a lot of the details may be lost. - Details matter. - See, I noticed that every time fuel went missing from the base, it was always after a specific flight. - Whenever C-17s ferried - I mean it's a minor detail, but in an investigation, details matter. - Hm, the mezzanine, that's where you are, but- - It just simply won't cut it. You see, you want to be down here. The sound just wraps How about I swap your ticket - (chuckles) Wouldn't he mind? - Not if he wants to keep his job. Please, take a seat. - In the bag. Do you wanna know how your dad became a He stopped a fight because one of them thought the other had stolen the last homemade cookie sent to him from his mom. Your dad got them to shake - I had to teach him I know everyone thinks it's cool to wear 'em straight brim, but I'm trying to bring You wanna help me out? - How's that? - It's good. - Yeah, let's see. There you go. Okay. Hey, you're gonna be fine. - A commanding officer thinks someone's stealing aviation fuel. - Siphoning off gas to Not exactly the kind of priority case the Army wants us taking on. - Right. But see, I don't think anybody's stealing and reselling anything. Take a look at these numbers. They always tell a story. (tense music) (both grunting) (gun firing) (tense music) - I think we're good, Neagley. - Fire in the hole. (rocket firing) (tense music) - Wait for it. (rocket booming) I guess Little Wing works. (upbeat music) - Looks like you had a rough night. - Had worse. - Coffee. Black. - Same. - Hey, you can bring the pot. - For you, ma'am. - Cereal. Pops, Puffs and and a chocolate milkshake. Thanks. (upbeat music) And they will pass - One more thing. You refer to the Special Investigators as your team, your soldiers But you know we're more than that, right? There's someone up above And be a simple kind of man (upbeat music)