- Good morning my people. - Ha-thaway anyone. - Well, we arrived in a new country. - Aha it's called the UK, England the - United Kingdoms. - United Kingdoms. - We are in London and many have already asked us about that country a long time ago, - but why didn't we come sooner - It is salty, very salty. - It must be one of the most expensive countries on planet Earth. - London is the eighth most expensive city in the world. It shows we arrived last night. - The accommodation we are staying in costs us 140 EUR per night - and it is a small shared bedroom in an apartment with another person - who lives there next door and is in a fairly old building - inside it is super nice, comfortable and warm . - But from the outside, yes, it is like an old building, yes too. - The old elevator also opens with a Key - we are apparently in a Middle Eastern neighborhood. - Yes, that's the first thing that caught my attention - how multicultural this city is. - The signs are all in Arabic. - In Arabic there are Pakistani Turkish stores. Meal. - They say that about 40% of the city is foreign, imagine - there are 8 million inhabitants here, what are 3 million 200? Who are foreigners, - Now what we are doing, the first mission of the day - is to find public transportation. - Yes, because with Lisanna we say we all move by bus, by public trains, - as we always do, because we discovered that yesterday coming from Luton airport, - an airport that is far from the city because the cheapest flights arrive. - The flight cost us 40 and 45 EUR each, very cheap. - We took a train that cost us 1 EUR 50 each, - just to get to the city at one in the morning. - And you pay everything with the debit. - And one in the morning it seemed super calm, for sure too. - Yes, we got everywhere. - So let's catch a UFO. Now the only thing that does, as Lisanna said, - look at the traffic, everyone in the world already knows that here the English hand was the opposite of the hand. - That we have, but it confuses me, it gives me a headache, - I don't know why, but my head hurts. - See that the cars come backwards. - Don't let them step on you, huh. - And be very careful when crossing the street because you always look the other way, - you are used to always seeing to the left that you have to look to the right - or to the left. I'm already lost. - To the right. - Look at the taxis, the English taxis. - How nice. - Here comes our bus 148 that is going to take us to the London Eye - and look how we are going to pay for the bus with the phone's debit card. - There it is. - Ready. - Today we are going to do everything that is most cliche in London. - As cliche as possible. - Very good, we arrive at the first most cliche point of the city of London, - the London Eye is called - A giant wheel that goes 135 meters - Aha. - there are people everywhere, no matter the time of year - there are many tourists and it sells out quickly, if you don't buy it a few days before, - maybe there isn't one Now here It seems calm, but we'll see. - When are we going? - Yes, it cost us 40 EUR to avoid having to wait in line and if you want to wait in line, 22 EUR. - Giant, and there are divided opinions, there are people who say that it is worth doing it. - There are people who say that it is not worth doing it and well, we said let's do it - Lisanna wanted to do it, I gave my wife the pleasure. - Well, today it seems the thing is empty, eh, very empty, look at what there is no one. - Here they are going to see if we have anything strange, - well, we're done. - Security checked us, here they take a photo of the one with the green screen, - Ok thank you. - Thank you. - This is huge, Lisanna. I thought I was doing a lot of sitting alone. - Only only 2 no more - I think they scammed us with the fast thing. - Eh yes, look how it is inside, it's a giant capsule. - I think that at least 30 people should enter here. - You can walk because it goes slowly. - I thought we had to sit at a glance. - Hey, here we have, well, we were talking in front of some fantastic views of the river. - Can you see the Big Bang there and what else are we going to see? - Let's see when we get up how few people there are? - That it wasn't worth paying the 40 EUR what? - It's strange that people don't come here anymore. - But I'm surprised if you start to investigate a little, - you'll see, the people are packed here to enter the kilometer-long line - I'm not understanding, we must have come at a time when there is no tourism. - But the center is full of people. - Go slowly, the speed is very slow so that you can see everything well. - Calmly. The entire return trip takes half an hour. - To go all the way around, my love, look at the impressive pipe structure, no - it is the most giant wheel we have ever been to in our lives. - We have already been on others than those where she is seated, but this one is crazy. - 135 m you said we are going to get there - Why the medicinal Sport? The more we go up, the more spectacular it gets - this and what I didn't tell you, Lisana. A secret is that before coming here I called Big Ben there. - I have the phone, I spoke with the prime minister and asked him to leave this capsule for us - just the two of us. - Yes, as if the prime minister would decide whether to go in the capsule alone or not - That's how it was. - That's why we have all this to ourselves, this is something strange. - On this side to see what there is. - Stunning view , - I'm going to tell another secret, - Mateos always said no to London all his life, it's very cliche, - he doesn't see, I don't want to go, I don't know why now when he's here I think he's loving it. - It's true, I never wanted to come to England, - I'm not going to hide it, I'm not going to act politically correct now - I never wanted to come, I was never curious. - I'm loving the city. - We reach the highest. - We reach the highest point of the wheel 135 m. - Well, I say it's worth it because it's the prettiest wheel I've ever seen. - Really? Well, there aren't that many people, it's spectacular - and look how the Big Bang looks here. I think it must be one of the best views one can have of that building. - It's actually called Elizabeth Tower. Come, it's just the bell, - but they named the building Elizabeth Tower in honor of the queen. - I thought I was going to regret paying 40 EUR, but I don't regret it. - It caught my attention that those kids came in with those mirrors that you see there, - that they have in their hands, when we got off and they were looking down at the seats with - the little mirror, if there was nothing strange, type if we didn't put a bomb or something, - what do I know there is a fairly strict security issue here. - Look there how they are checking all the people, - they even have a machine like the airports, mamita che. - That's the first time I've ever seen them come in with those little things like that with the mirror. - I didn't expect it, oh bye - well, changing the subject a little here they told us that - if we continue walking straight we will go under the bridge. - There is like a secret spot that should no longer be a secret, - but a place where people go and take a photo and behind you you have Big Ben. - What is this? - A Halloween thing. - In London, I saw a lot of museums, but they are not like museums either, - it is more interactive and thematic things that look quite interesting. - And many free museums there, yes, that's what there is for free to make museums here. - Adventures of Shrek. - About Shrek, look, go and Lisana a little, let's see Shrek, you like it, I'll wait for you outside, eh? - How nice the cheeks. - You are already thinking about the Lisanite babies and now we are going to the secret place that. - I see it's not a secret anymore. - We see that it is not a secret, but that they also highly recommend it to you. - Coming, you pass under the Big Ben bridge and turn to the right. - And there you have it to take your photo? - Oh no, look at the line here of tourists here to go take the photo. - Aver I'm going to spy on us and see. - There they are taking the photo. - Oh but. - Work cany go thing thank you. I'm sorry - look here we have another YouTuber colleague there filming look - why wait at that door if it's free here - Sometimes for me the law is given, the law of La Manada dresses - The law of course, the law of The Pack, everyone is still there, you have to go there, - you have to go there, so everyone goes there. Look, here we have a colleague from YouTube. - You see that people all go there because that's like the famous spot, - The most famous spot where people go to take a photo with Big Ben behind them. - But as Lisanna said, it's not necessary. You can come here next door, no more precise and ready. - Look, you take the terrible photo. - We also took out the Cliche - give it my love, but before we leave we want to tell you that that is the English Parliament, - it is not the tallest clock tower in the world. It already was, but it is - the largest clock in the world. - It has four faces, it weighs about 10 tons - Something like that is not true, not that. How much like 10 t you said it weighs 13. - 13 tons and is the icon of man. - Look more, tourist guides arrive here Lisanna here is the point - Lisanna they are going to get married just like we did - Well Lisanna saw they are going to get married like us. - Mateo gets involved. - We are also getting married, congratulations. Thank you girls and girls. - Well, we have a couple who is going to get married - and another who is going to get married here - and here we have the tourists arriving or the people here getting ready Lisanna eh - Very good, let's move on to the next one. - Point I would like to have breakfast. - Let's have breakfast, come on, let's eat a breakfast, a British breakfast. - I remind you, I want to take a bus. - Which one do you want to wear my love? - The big one is not a lie. - We disassemble it and take it, no problem. - Well, pay the gentleman. - Where do you pay here? - There's the little machine, look how cute it is but very expensive 12 - this is only 2 payments, like 2.50 seemed cheap to me. You saw that it always costs 5. We said it together, - now we are going to cross the bridge. This is also a pretty cliche walk - that you can do here in London. The Bridge, Westminster, is very beautiful - and they say that there is something like a myth here, a prejudice about the city that is always - it is cloudy, it always rains and today it is not raining, but it is cloudy, so. - But I'm already happy that it's not raining. - Me too and I'm going to tell you something, the weather is cold, - but it's not that cold that makes you freeze, that makes you want to go - inside a cafe or a restaurant. - Is it because we come from Estonia? - Look at the Lisanna salchipapa that they sell all salchipapa here. - Did you see it? - A hotdog Ah, it's a hotdog, it's food that Nats sell. - Almendras speaks in Spanish. - I don't know in Spanish, how was that said? No, it's not almond, it's. - Almond. - Is called. Sugary, sugary nuts we say - look at the girl, she brought the Lisanna tripod and she's taking the photo herself, how great - now be very careful. - When they are walking in places like that, where it is full of tourists full of people. - In that case there are kids running, but look here, for example, near Big Ben, - near very touristy places, be careful because there are types of robbery here, they told us. - Some are the picky pocket, which are those that put their hands in your pockets - and steal your belongings. - Another are the. - It threw me off, other people are the bicichorros, here there are bicichorros, - they are guys who ride bicycles, all dressed in black with hoods. - You don't see your face and they pass by and steal your phone and leave with everything on an electric bicycle - and they never catch them again. So you have to be very careful when you walk - with the Camera in your hand or when you are like this, dressed like me now, for example. - You have to be careful in this place and third place and this is the most serious thing of all - very careful. Don't even think about coming to London using your phone's data plan, - roaming with your country's data plan because - it's going to cost you a fortune. Instead I recommend using Lisanna local sim, - local sim, it is the world leader in SIM cards, you don't have to buy the physical card. - They never enter any of that in the application, they choose the plane that will best serve them, - as in this case they are going to put London and they will find there a series of options for all - the prices that will be adapted to their needs. pocket and apart from that, - here there are unlimited plans in London that offer, for example, international calls - local calls, data that you will have to navigate crazy - and you can do all of that from the application in a very fast way - and use the best local operator that is EE. - In this case because they connect only with the best operators - so that you can navigate. I'm already logged in, Lisanna too - we're using it and it's fantastic, so with the code Mateo and Lisanna all together. - You are going to get a 10% discount, so travel calmly and connected to the world. - Look inside what the Palace of Westminster is. - How crazy they say that the architecture is from the Victorian era - That she was the queen who was in the crown the longest, - 60 years and all that architecture that comes there, which is crazy. - Bravo. - Very well my people, we have just arrived at a very symbolic place for the entire United Kingdom, - which is Westminster Abbey. This is precisely where the monarchs are crowned, - 40 have already been crowned and there are also 18 of them buried. - In a Gothic abbey, they say that inside the architecture of this place is crazy. - Look at the details there, carved at the entrance to the abbey. - It's crazy, there really is only one big problem with this place - to visit it you have to bleed 40 pounds. - 30, 30 pounds, 30 pounds on the side, a friend told me that I can't tell Lisanna - who that friend is, because she's going to get angry. - Yes I know who. - He told us that entering the store is free. - So let's go into the store and see it, - since you don't pay a cent. What do you think my love? - What does the store have, uh, what does it have? - Well you can see something like saying, well, I didn't go into the abbey, - but I went into the shop and it's free. - Oh there's nothing, well you know who this Lisanna is, she's like a figure here in England, - what was her name - No, where is Pictures from? No? Ah, I thought you were correcting me. - Thank you sir, excuse me. - I thought the man was telling me no, it's not a drawing of a figure from England - and it turns out he told me, you can't film here, so we're leaving. - Look, here is a bicycle tour, these are not the bicichorros, - these are the people who do the bicycle tour with the guide. - Miguel, what a nice breakfast. - We came to eat because we were terribly hungry - and we ordered an English breakfast when you look at the plate they bring you, - it looks like a dinner, how big this is. - Sausage. These eggs. Egg is egg my love toast beans - tomato here there is bacon, butter and this is it. - Like a mushroom and another is like. - A black bread. They don't say Black pudding. - It would be one. Blood sausage. - I can't believe breakfast is deadly, I mean, with this we already have lunch, dinner - and I'm going to try the Black pudding and see. - Lisanna has the same flavor as the black pudding that you like. - Lisanna is very fond of blood sausage, she loves Estonian blood sausage. It's not true my love. - I'm not lying or you're making faces. Chorizo is delicious. - It doesn't have much fat, it shows that it is good quality meat. - Everything very rich. - And, you only tried the how can you say that they were all very rich I grabbed Lisanna dressed - Very rich and all this people cost 17 pounds 17 lb is more or less the price, - let's say average from here in the region. - If you want cheaper, you have no choice but to go to the supermarket. - Here in England things are expensive and we have no way to escape. - What a good appetit. - Well, here came the food knife. Look how much breakfast cost. - In London I don't eat more than 50 lb, 61 EUR to have breakfast. - I think we will continue going to the supermarket. - And I forgot to mention something on the bill, they put a 13.5% service charge on you, - I read that it is not mandatory, but it is also ugly if you take it out, - so that also increases the bill quite a bit or you arrive believing here not 17 EUR pounds - well, I don't know what, but of course, at the end of the bill they put you in service. - It's quite expensive. - We see this is a person in his natural habitat, - what he is doing now is feeling in nature, - he is an Estonian, they like flowers, they like trees, - they like shears. Look, Liz, the shears come out, there you have the shears, - squirrel squirrel, there is a pact, look. - He stopped. - Oh oh oh what oops oops oops what do you want. Wow. - I have nothing friend, look how she stood up, - I have nothing, if they come to the door they are not afraid of people, - they don't have to put their hand on them. - Even the pigeons think you have something. They are good here. - The pigeons are good at this. - What you see here is St James Park, it's called and - We heard a lot of people speaking Spanish from Spain - and we met a couple who were walking a corky and we started chatting. - I don't know what and good vibes reopened and we realized that here with Lisanna - it's like a culture of quite cordiality. - The people who come to live here and the people who are from here are very cordial. - Sorry, they say sorry for everything, they pass in front of you and they say sorry - it's in the supermarket, they say sorry, they apologize for everything. - They are friendly, they greet you, they are very cordial. - It reminds me of when I lived in Australia, a similar culture of people, very cordial. - Duck yes. - And the squirrel is still there. - The squirrel is still there. Look. - Look. Which. It is. - People are all so used to it. - Did you see that he has a ring on his paw? - Clear. - You see, yes, it is to mark it because they cannot be eaten. - First of all, Mateo thought, why can't you eat a duck? - You don't know what a duck with hake is - no, calm down, calm down, put your hand calmly, my love. - Putting your hand on it doesn't bite. - Don't you have something with squirrels, my God, what is that - Is it real or is it a stuff or is it made of fur - Wow. - Giant. - They are pelicans. - I don't know what. - It's a big thing for God. -And why are all these people here? - And because no one has ever seen it. - Madness are pink. Be careful with your pockets here, eh? - These are the dangerous places where you can be robbed. What a big bug. - Wow, they are beautiful. - Wow, I've never seen that they exist. - Does he have a red eye, did you see? - Here at the end of a giant avenue that we have here, beautiful, surrounded by trees, - is Buckingham Palace, which is the official residence of the monarchy. - Although I have currently read that the monarchy does not live here - and that the king has decided to return to the roots of the old families - and live in the clerence residence, but they do not live here today, - the Buckingham Palace is used only. - For tourism, to receive illustrious figures and it also has a number of artistic pieces - with incalculable values that are all there inside the Palace - and those in a decorative way and also as non-cultural heritage. - Today we are here learning where several monarchs lived, - it also has beautiful gates that lead to the park. - There are a lot of people here, it's the place where there are the most people since we arrived. - The most iconic thing, here they do the changing of the Guard. - Unfortunately it's not every day, we won't get to see it. - My love is Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday - so here you see the screen. - Today is Saturday and it is at 11:00 in the morning. They say you have to be 1 hour early, - at least because it gets crowded. I don't know what happened. - It's still hard for me to get used to the fact that cars go hand in hand. - Here it is the left, not the right. Is her hand the left one? - Yes of course. - And that is a statue of Queen Victoria that I had mentioned before from the Victorian period, - who was the queen who lasted the longest in the monarchy for 60 years - and look Victoria Regina there she is and there she is sitting there - and The lions are also here. Look, they're protecting the Palace, - let's see if we can get closer. - All this is free, we pay absolutely nothing. - The only thing we paid so far was to eat and to go to London Eye - Eat, sleep and London. - And London Eye - nothing more. - Everything we are doing is free, look my love, - you wanted to see the Guard there he is. - Sure, but that's not the changing of the Guard. - No, but hey, at least we live there in Guardia. - We are referred here look - aha. - Now I would like to know where that Guard is that appears on Tik Tok, - who is with a horse and always bites someone's hand, - you already saw that yes, that We have to find that People do not respect and get in there yes. - I have also seen on the internet that there are these carts here in - London that take you for a ride, you pay a price and they take you around - and show you the most emblematic places in the city. - Look here I leave the prices for those who are interested. Victoria 15 from 15 to 40 - look at all the tours they do and they take you here on the bicycle throughout the city. - And you are there walking and getting to know yourself, although I have seen in some YouTube videos - that it is not worth doing. - Because it's very expensive and I'm going to do it on a public bus - and it's cheaper if you want to save on the bike. - But I have seen that no, they have not highly recommended the bicycle. - It's a bus that serves you the aftur nutri, gives you tea with dough and... - I can't believe it. - No, what a good idea. We live with Lisanna to do the after a ticket is the English afternoon tea. - Very typical here, but it costs 60 pounds or 80 EUR to have a tea. - I tell you, per person, I say Lisanna, I'll make it for you at home, a bag of text for 50 cents in Estonia. -Look and they really go with the whole thing. - The people here greet me, we arrive at the horse stable of the Queen's Guard, - which is 350 years old and we came to see if we can find that famous horse - with the Guard on top that everyone in the world takes a photo on tik knock and the horse bites you - when you stand next to it. Lisanna wants to stand next to her to see if the horse bites her, - so that's the idea we have now. Let's see if we find it. - Those are Mateo's ideas. - Mateo's ideas. - There we found Guardia, but we haven't found the horse, where - Oh oh. - The truth is that the guards are the biggest attraction in London. - People get desperate to see the guards moving, - doing whatever. See how many people there are here, there are YouTubers, there is everything. - Ah, here is Lisanna, I found it. - There is the famous tik tok horse. - Look what this is, the number of people filming. - Look, look, look how crazy it is. - There's a youtuber playing, there's the horse. - And there are the people standing next to each other as it appears on Tiktok and the horse bites them - The Guard is very serious up there, looks at the horse, looks, waves, - look at the number of people filming. That's the attraction of London. - And it's free, look, here, with the tripe, there's the lady taking photos with the tripe - there's one with a camera with a stabilizer, there's another one, look, let's say hello. - Here there are people doing live and here is the girl. - It would be quite possible that you can't laugh, look, says the horse. - Maybe he will bite you or kick you, don't touch the horse, thank you. - Look here the boy is also filming here with the Camera. - Several cameramen there like me. - Filming too. - Well, I came here to take a photo and luckily it didn't bite me, - but you have to be careful, right? You have to be attentive. - Did everything go well, do you want something good too? - Yes, you weren't even close. Ah, how exaggerated. - You want me to get closer. - Because they can yell at you, I have seen them get angry. - He gets angry, look, my love, what you have there - you asked me the entire trip to bring you a phone - to take the photos, there you have them, look. - There are the famous English telephones, what are they for taking photos ? - Nothing more because now everyone in the world has a cell phone. - You can't open it, there's nothing inside. - There is absolutely nothing, I have seen that some had things inside, - others put books in it, I don't know about everything, but it is locked up. - He has nothing. Look at this, it's protected for future generations, he says. - You see, they left it as if it were a cultural part of the country's history, - but they are not used anymore. - Look what we found at the London Christmas market - we already saw the lights, now we feel the smell. - And people eating, drinking everything, - they even do a tour for 40 lbs that takes you to all the decorations. - London Christmas. These are the markets they do throughout Europe. - In Talin they also have a Christmas market and in every city I think there should be one. - I see a lot of people eating hot dogs here. - A lot of people eating hot dogs, look there you can see them. - Oh. - The grill. - German food. - German food. - Look how he puts the mustard on it? It looks like a cow's udder. -Look , those are the typical tourist buses that say hop on hop on of, it costs 40 lbs. - But you can take the same route with a public bus for 1.20 - and you will see the same thing and you will get on and off and pay more or less the same. - So they say it's not worth grabbing those 40 lb buses. - Love of my life. - Here I wanted to bring, I know that you always told me about this street and it made me remember you - the famous Picadelli street, which is where all the advertisements are - for the most expensive brands in the world. - Are the screens colorful? Well, I know you like these things, - the clothes, all that, the decoration, the Premier League. - That's not the players, my love, you like the legs of the players, - I know, my love, that you look at them and I'll let you because I'm not a jealous man, - you can look at everything you want, as long as You continue to love me - I would lend you my eyes so you can see how beautiful you are. - Very romantic my love. - Well, there is Picadelilly Street, here where people come, eh, picadilly or picadillo, something like that - and here where they put these advertisements. - You see, the street is famous for that, look at what clothes these guys have put on - That's good, look. It looks like that street in Japan where all the lights are - I also find it incredible. - I think the truth is beautiful. - Che Lisanna, you looked at the phone. - It's destroyed. Look. - But destroyed, you know? - What would I do? I mean, it would be much nicer if you fixed it and painted it, don't look how it is. - I like it, so vintage my love that it looks like vintage I do. - It would be so symbolically iconic that it would look really beautiful, even a red one like my jacket. - Did you have any doubts about whether London was a cosmopolitan city? - Here is the answer. - The Chinatown neighborhood, as I said at the beginning of the video, 40% of the population here - according to what Google says is foreign and there is an only Chinese neighborhood here. - Uh, look here, the thing is full. - An absurd amount of people - and Go on, go on, go on. - Chinatown is not big here. - But London was super nice, the clothes were super aesthetic. -In what sense? - I don't know how picturesque the whole area looks, so touristy. - The architecture is true, everything is very organized, the city also looks very clean. - There are 8000000 inhabitants that could be dirtier, - but it's not clean, it's organized, it's pretty. - You're sure, a good plan to come visit London Look, we found a radio. - Who speaks Chinese. Information there. - 0 is praying or something, I don't know what it is - We don't know. - What do you have? - The noodles they eat have Hello Panda - which I think is like chocolate, the cookies, - everything they eat, Chinese supermarket, - Chinese restaurant here is impressive, the truth is you don't even need to go to China, - you have everything here , now we are going with Lisanita, - the last stop is called Tower Bridge. We want to go and meet him, - we're on our way. - And look what we find here, a demonstration. - I don't know what it was about, but it's the first time I've seen a demonstration here - there are a lot of police in the streets. - That they are here taking care of. - And look. People are here protesting. - Look how they have been organized? - There are young boys. - But they are. - Look how people come with little signs, each one made their own sign. - Put your protest there. - Giant protest 3 blocks away, we are going to walk because we are going to take the train. - My God, look at all these televisions to find the one we have to take. - Giant, At the train station here in London. - Look, I don't understand crazy. - How do we know now which one we have to grab, no idea? - Look at a robot that cleans the floor. Here there is not a person beyond, - puts every robot that passes on the floors. - Oh, what technology we made wrong or there is not here that we have to come - We have to go out now to try to find the subway - and even though Lisanna is good with GPS she is not finding it either. - It's very complicated, now it seems to me that we found the right place. - It's called the underground, it seems to me that this is where the man has to enter - that's where he gave us the information, so I hope it's here if not night is going to fall - and we won't be able to see the bridge. - Look how wonderful I pay for everything with my card. - Here we go, Lisano Lisana already found everything because she is wonderful. - Pin the best woman in the world to find things. - Wonder Woman - everything everything finds. - Well, people, here we are starting to enter the Tower Bridge - or the tower bridge. Look at the details that this bridge has here, how wonderful, - how beautiful it is blue, it is also a very emblematic place in the city - that we recommend visiting. - And it is also a bridge from the Victorian era of England, - which has impressive architecture and can also be visited for free. - You can walk if you want to climb the tower or do other things. - You have to pay for that, but hey, now we're getting closer - there towards the bridge, let's see how it is, see it says ticket there because - you have to pay if you want to go up the tower. - We are going to make the free version. - Use the bridge yes. - We make the free version so that those who don't want to do it - don't have to do it and those who want to pay can do the paid version. - Ah Lisanna tells me that. - Walking on a bridge can normally be a boring experience, - but walking on this bridge is crazy. - First we are going to start with these irons that you have here that were painted light blue - and white like the flag of Argentina in the middle with a red dot. - There are some giant, imposing pipes and look what these Towers are. - It's really impressive. - Look at the arch here to enter. - And the view - The view we have here. - The river is crazy. - Look what this is. - It's really beautiful, but very cute. There are many tourists here - much more than we found on the London Eye. - And there it seems like a whole new area. - As a business, isn't it? My love, yes. - Which must be beautiful too. - And there you can also see a British Navy ship. - It is really impressive and with the beautiful view of this bridge we will have to say. - I particularly found this city surprising, - but it exceeded all my expectations. - I came here without any expectations, it was not a country that had them. - Favorite to visit. However, today I tell you, but I would return here 1000 times - Yes, the truth is that I loved it too and we got to know 1% of what the city has. - Nothing nothing. - Because what a cosmopolis is like - There must be incredible places that one doesn't even know about to go out, - to eat, to have fun, for a panoramic view. I don't know what to do for a walk in summer should be another. - Experience must be crazy. The good thing was that we came during the low season, - so there are fewer people, it's quieter to access the places we stayed here, - we're going to go adventuring, who knows where we left a huge kiss. - Thank you for the support, thank you for the positive energy. - Subscribe to the channel if you like to support us. - And on Instagram mateoylisanna - God willing, see you the next day we love you very much a big kiss. - Bye.