[music] Welcome to this week's Facelift Makeup Tutorial. Yes, it is that powerful. Many of us have either genetically inherited our features tend to move downward It is amazing the power of makeup So this is going from downturned to upturned. This is how you erase 2020 from your face It is the beauty of makeup, in my opinion, is the transformative effect if you so choose. I love being without it. I love au naturel. I think that's the beautiful thing also of being a she is and what she has. But at the same time, if you have the tools you have an amazing opportunity in the right moment And that's what I want to impart in today's video, I'm starting with a bare face. I have parted my hair down the middle, I feel like a 12-year-old here today, in half, essentially. I'm going to do makeup the wrong way on one side, So at the moment I'm going to apply foundation, not necessarily in that order. I will also provide a link to my No Smudge No Budge in place, but I will revisit you in just a second Okay, great. Everything will be listed in the description portion We're going to start with the eyebrows, and I'm going how framing them can really initiate or a downturned eye. For full disclosure, I just had my eyebrows tattooed So thank you, Connie, because I now feel like but I'm still going to use a brow pomade to really you fill in your eyebrows. So let's use this side of my face, camera left will be the upturn. So when we're going in with our brow and we fill in, really careful with is this outer portion of the brow, We have to be careful not to overemphasize that. So since this is the wrong side, even a little bit longer because sometimes we do that we thicken, we lengthen, and pulling the shape downward. So this brow is going to be my droopy brow, All right. For comparison, this side, and we're going to flick it out a little bit. So I'm building in my base underneath, When I come out to the side, And I'm going to continue this line You see how my strokes are going So I'm going to fill in like I did with the other, I'm really going to come in on the height of the brow So it's going to be slightly shorter than the other. But I think you can already see the difference more severe and it's coming down. It's going to change also how we do our makeup. For eye makeup, I love this palette. I featured this before in a previous video, It's so inexpensive. The colors are beautiful, So it's kind of perfect for the holidays as well. So what happens is our lids start to get a little bit the lighter shade on the lid. And what that can do is that can really weigh the lid So on this side, I will use the light shade on the lid. On this side, I'm actually going to use a warmer shade, I'm going to stay in the plum purple family today, So I'm going to keep it a little bit warmer and darker. And when you have heaviness in your lids, crease line up higher. Here's the important part of this process, So to do that, we have to be very careful So just like the outer part of this eyebrow went out, that line and just sort of go up and out. Lot of blending, a lot of smoothing, this framework that our eyebrows have created. So I'm going to stop right there. On the eye that's going to be the mistake, and I'm going to now follow the natural shape of my So I'm going to go in the crease. I'm going to make the mistake of not going and I'm going to follow the shape. So I'm not making any adjustments I'm simply following my shape and bringing that down. Okay. So here, we're displaying the difference already that downturn in the makeup, So we're going to complete the eye makeup I'm going to use...I used this sort of rusty color Now I'm going in with this darker brown, but instead of going all the way down, and I'm creating a new endpoint for the outer eye. And I'm lifting that out to meet the Perfect. So what you're seeing is now two things happening. You're seeing a lift on the outer corner of the eye, on because I'm going to slowly soften and blend this of my eyebrow. On this other side that I'm doing incorrectly, and I'm going to block in with that darker brown. Where my eye actually ends. Okay, now I'm going to take my blending brush to raise it a little bit and soften it. This I'm just following the shape that I've created. Now, I'm going in with the light highlight color. And here I am just sweeping right, hugging really, And just underneath my eyebrow, not going too far down, on that side because we brought The mistake often on this side, which really emphasizes that orbital bone and the I'm already seeing a big difference. Liner is really going to emphasize this. So on the correct eye, I'm using a black liner. I'm going to top line, which means I come eyelashes coming from the underside. So you're basically just sort of going back and forth. I'm not going all the way down again. I remember I created that artificial endpoint. So that's where I start, right there. And I am just wiggling in my lash line, This really helps to create an open eye look We're basically doing the antithesis of heavy. I'm going to make the mistake on this side of my face. I'm going to come from the top which is going to eliminate a lot of my lid. The biggest mistake that we make in terms and it's something that you never ever see me do, in my lower lash line. Now there's a difference when I do a smoky eye, medium shade to smudge in my lashes, It doesn't mean you can't put shadow in your lash line medium side, and not dark. But oftentimes we take a dark liner, and this is a dark So now what's going to happen is that's really going to going on on the outer corner here. Blend my shadow. So now I have basically followed I have followed my natural eye curvature, that looks sort of sad and older. This side so far is looking I am going to leave the bottom lashes alone, So I don't want to overdo the So at this point I would take my And we'll do it on this side, too, just so you can see. And now mascara on the good side is [music] And in doing so I am Okay. On the wrong side, obviously, and the lower lashes. God, this reminds me so much of the '80s. Ooh. Same with the eyeliner up higher, you've covered too much of your eyelid and, therefore, All right, now let's bring in some lower lashes. I haven't done this in decades. Look like little spider legs, and this is just really It's just pulling everything downward. Okay. Big difference, but I'm not done yet. I still have another trick that I like to do to really create more of a cat eye and a nice lift. You know I am a huge fan of the magnetic...whoopsy, They're just floating around on this tray here. Hold on. Okay. The magnetic outer wing lashes. I'm going to use the outer for These are the 0.2 millimeter, and they just go right but really create once they're on And you see how that just gave me that extra little but it also created such a nice lift going up and out here on the right side. All right. So eye makeup is done. Concealer. [music] The other trick is with the good eye, I use the hanging below and really help keep that line nice of this eyebrow. Everything kind of sweeps up to match it. On this side, I'm matching Okay. Just going to set the area with powder. And I'm going to set my foundation now with powder and then eventually lipstick. Okay. Here's another area where we run into trouble, Where you place it is everything in terms of how your So here's a contour and highlight palette. I'm going to use the darkest contour I will contour a little bit on the low side. So I am in the hollow of my cheek, On the right side, I'm going to hug just under my So I'm just going to hug right here. It's a little bit higher than the other side. And I'm not going as far down as I did on the other. So this one, the good one is here, On the good side of the face, forehead just for warmth. Also, as we age, our noses elongate. So on the good side, I'm going to do...it's of my nose, but I'm going to try and ever so slightly Here's the other trick for contouring. Faces tend to sag, we get jowls and heaviness here. So on the good side, to combat that, on the jawline, okay? Because what you want to do is you don't want to heavy and protruding. You actually want to conceal those. So we're just going to make a really... We're going make a really nice straight line, And then gently pull down. So I'm essentially creating a new artificial jawline. This side I'll leave alone just for a full effect. Placement of blush, placement of blush. Okay, on the wrong side, and we are going to go just above our contour. Going to fill it in here on the lower side. Ooh, I used just a little too much. Hold on. Okay. Blush is coming forward and it's a little heavy The correct way is a teeny, teeny tiny bit. And this may shock you. It is way up high. All right, you want an instant facelift? You put your blush way up high, We are staying out to the side. We are high, and we're up. [music] Shockingly up. But this immediately creates the illusion of not only I mean, I can purely see the difference as I look in but the placement of the contour and the blush higher in how your face reads. Okay, now comes the next probably most important part. That is how we draw in and define our lips. So, as you can see, Always have, always. So my lips have always kind of come out it becomes even more pronounced. So how do I counteract that? Simple, it's where I draw in my lips. So on the bad side, mistake number one is using a very than your actual lipstick. So that's what we're going to do on the wrong side, So the last thing that I want to do is follow my and go just slightly outside. [music] Basically, I followed the shape of my mouth. It's come down. I've met in the corner. And that's what a lip line drawn to your Here is how you correct a downturn mouth. You're actually cheating. I'm going with a lighter, with almost any shade lipstick. This is really just to create framework. So the key is you're coming from underneath, here, and the way to do that is to come from the [music] So instead of rounding here, I've come under this round curve, flattened a little, Like when you grin sort of creating that line on I'm on the bottom. [music] Okay. To help with that, I have a highlighter pencil that I to help block in and eliminate that and enlighten just above the area All right. So lipstick, it's a matte pencil, I'm going to follow the line of my [music] And now on the correct side, [music] The color is not going on the outside, [music] Oh my, what a difference. Okay. Just to help, let's do this. Ready? The wrong side. Do you see how following my own natural lines The right side, how using what I have and cheating and a new look, and it's as if I went to a doctor's office. The power of makeup, it is profound. I think this really demonstrates how with just the of your face. I mean, it amazes me, the difference. And I love honestly how makeup technique has evolved. I mean, when you think about it, We did that, and we weren't doing our...I mean, ourselves any favors. But now that we're older and more mature And here's the thing, I'm wearing dark colors. People always say, &quot;Oh, you know, It emphasizes all the wrong things.&quot; Not true, it's how you do it. You can wear reds, you can wear plums, and the right application makes all I want you to be able to feel like you have ways, you have tricks. You know, these are your scalpels, okay? That's how powerful they are. It's all in your ability. Take the time, figure it out, enjoy learning. It's always wonderful to learn new things, and feel the difference. I'd love to stay, but I have to go wash off half of my But I've loved being here for you. Lay down what you want to see. Follow me on social media, subscribe to the channel, when I release a video, share me with friends, family, and I want more people to love. Go out, be bold, and be blessed, be amazed. And I'll see you next Thursday. Bye. [music]