steph curry is messing the game up i just think every shot is going to go in the ball is not the problem with Steph This is what NBA players and legends go ahead to head with Steph what was that Steph Curry just saved America. Overstatement, maybe? At least, he saved Team USA in two Bron and Steph right they all played what Steph his 34 36 if he doesn't do Paul George and Trae Young have to play they know to give their props to the and but if you look at Steph had he also had nine assists like if Steph didn't have 17 in the first This is just another huge moment for Steph where dudes realize he's still somehow underrated. After Steph got his first Finals MVP He was one of the greatest he showed him he said no no I'm not you right what he did in that final was special Unless... you say he's not a point guard? he's not he's not a he's not a chris paul he's of the facilitator for that team yes um steph of point guard yes than those guys um But does it matter what position he is when he he's technically a point-forward, and you won't to do that steph he's on a he's an alien i don't i don't i don't him on a half court shot when we played him sure he didn't even look at the rim and he And Jrue is one of the best couple perimeter but even he gets shook when guarding Steph. he's putting this in the little try no it's not okay to try only he can Speaking of best perimeter defenders, wait Smart has to say, but remember when in that series Mark Jackson stood greatest shooting backcourt he in the But remember Richard Jefferson, he's LeBron James, Jason Kidd, But Steph Curry's projection I was there when he broke the record think like I think it was like 250 maybe the next year the [ __ ] was going to By the way - it was 272 in 2013, 285 in 2015, and 402!!! in that insane 2016 season. I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT TONIGHT, 56 GAMES. THIS RECORD AIN'T NEVER GOING TO FIVE YEARS AT HIS PEAK. AND HE'S GOING TO SET like Steph doesn't have like the prettiest pretty shot the rail has a pretty shot like yeah his is sick but like Steph is unorthodox comes off his hand a certain way he knows it's It totally changed the game - for better or worse. steph curry is messing the game up your kids to jack up bad threes in AAU! getting open looks... he just happens to transition and Steph Cuts back door and I'm ball the whole time and I know that goes see the ball see the ball the ball is the Steph Curry he's he's the [ __ ] problem Steph which is not there's not many guys all time in When he gets cooking... i just think every shot is going to go in It's not just the shooting - but the know the way that he he's able to affect off the ball um and get himself open um and can't take a break you know instance doing anything to play is over for him and get burnt and that's when that mentality comes go ahead to head with Steph what was that I mean the way he moves without the ball but just the way he moves without the ball the uh it fits him to Perfection uh you know and I remember game one and two uh chasing shot everybody's looking at me like why can't And for Shaq... Steph kept proving him wrong. steph's doing and giving them hope but at why steph is so great because he makes a lot of don't make as many and i used to hate on him that but he kept proving me wrong that's why And it ain't just luck. Do you he gonna work out as long as he it is that he set out to accomplish that day Draymond broke down Steph's insane workout habits like there's times where like a he can't shoot a shot unless he but what I will tell you is like I like him dumbest workout though like when guys will go stuff if you go down there today like and I'll workout down often yeah like if God's gonna come like you can't that's insane no you his man And this all began... with Iman Shumpert. The Night Steph Curry Turned Into A Monster: one of my biggest regrets and Steph I I'm sure you you was going to be the light skinned man you know but I feel like when you came to the garden way and he had 50. I feel like that's when you Do you think Steph is the greatest Olympics showing? What else does he need in the comments then watch how Michael Listen to the Wrong Opinion: Useless NBA Trivia