A channel for safely directing water flowing from a sabo dam In order to maintain this flow path stably, it is necessary to construct concrete on three sides. The construction usually takes about a month and involves processes such as excavation, formwork and pouring concrete. However, this time we used an innovative construction item, fabric formwork, which will allow construction to be completed in just two days. Come see the entire process to see how this innovative construction method works. Adding mortar to a concrete pump truck Insert the hose for pumping the mortar into the injection port. Injecting mortar into the fabric formwork Once filled with mortar, the formwork will expand like a balloon. Check that the mortar is packed properly and evenly. In a permeable formwork, excess concrete mixing water is squeezed out by the injection pressure, It is possible to form high-strength mortar in a short period of time. After pouring the bottom and vertical two of the three sides, the thread that was blocking the mortar from entering is removed and the remaining side is poured. This is the basic flow path... Would you like to build formwork and pour concrete? Well, there is. The original design here was But that would be too much work. The work was not completed That's how it happened. (The civil engineering industry) has a shortage of human resources Rather than doing something so difficult (building a framework) Fewer humans You can finish it quickly without taking time Pour the walls, build the formwork, pour the ready-mix concrete Next time, hit the bottom plate. Even if we dig a channel, This amount of digging is not enough Even if you build a retaining wall Because there is a need to assemble the rear frame. You have to dig extra deep. Once the retaining wall is completed It takes time to fill in the back The number of processes will increase It's early in terms of days So it's like shortening the process. Also, (the fabric formwork) is bumpy. The flow rate also slows down It flows (faster with conventional concrete) All good things To prevent the fabric formwork from falling under the weight of the mortar, lever blocks are attached to the support piles to secure it in place. At the end, the fabric form is sewn together with thread and adjusted to fit the shape of the flow path. Fabric formwork perfectly conforms to the shape of the channel After the mortar is injected, the accumulated mortar mixing water and other substances are thoroughly poured away and disposed of. In this project, the innovative product of fabric formwork and the skills of the craftsmen who utilized it made it possible to accomplish a project that was previously thought to be difficult to achieve. It's amazing how, thanks to the wisdom and skill of the craftsmen, a robust waterway that protects against disasters was completed in just two days. These innovative technologies will continue to prevent disasters and ensure our safe lives. Bad roads with water pooling all year round This time, we will show you the construction process for improving bad roads that cause puddles. Remove accumulated water Drilling Guidelines Excavating topsoil After the topsoil is scraped off, the surface is compacted and hardened. Slag delivery Spread evenly over the entire surface Rolling Spread the sand evenly over the entire area. Enjoy the process with background music until the construction is completed. Construction completed Comparison before and after construction started The bad roads, which were once filled with puddles, have been uniformly smoothed with high-quality soil, dramatically improving their condition. This will prevent puddles from forming and allow you to use the roads comfortably. Various sports facilities, including soccer fields, tennis courts, and baseball fields, will be built on this vast site. This big project is being jointly developed by a major general contractor and a local company. The aim is to revitalize the local area, and once completed, residents and visitors will be able to enjoy a variety of sports. We are playing a part in this big project and are currently working on the construction of a soccer field. Special features will be installed underground on this soccer field to make it comfortable for people to enjoy playing soccer. Please take a look at all the steps to see what kind of ingenuity goes into making this product. Auto level setting We proceed with excavation of the ground while checking the soil height with an auto-level that can measure slope. The excavation will be carried out in a circle around the ground. Firmly compact the excavated soil hot Tie hanging To determine the exact position and height, a string is stretched to create a reference line. Single-flow crushed stone delivery Highly permeable single-grain crushed stone is leveled to the specified height. Tighten it. Installation of culvert drainage pipes This drainage pipe has a honeycomb cross section and numerous linear collection outlets around its entire circumference, providing high water collection and drainage capabilities. Therefore, by installing this drainage pipe inside the ground, drainage will be dramatically improved. Backfill with single-grain crushed stone. Ce Liang He is currently working as a civil surveyor but is also a woodworker creating one-of-a-kind furniture and accessories. We had the opportunity to help introduce his diverse woodworking techniques on YouTube, so be sure to check it out in the description. Draw excavation guidelines along the surveyed points. Drill according to the guidelines. Installation of sheet drain pipe Run the sheet drain towards the first drain you installed. Backfill with crushed stone The ground is then compacted with a roller to finish the process. Connecting the catch basin and the underdrain drainage pipe Rainwater flows through the drain pipes into the catch basin, allowing for efficient drainage. A large number of drainage pipes are buried underground in an orderly fashion, which efficiently treats rainwater and greatly improves drainage performance. Eventually, grass will be laid on the ground, creating an environment where users can play soccer comfortably. A concrete structure designed to prevent landslides and floods. The area surrounding this concrete structure is dotted with valuable cultural assets and historic cemeteries from the Muromachi period. As a result, concrete, which is an artificial structure, is a cause of spoiling the landscape of important cultural properties. That's why we carry out special construction work to achieve both disaster prevention and beautiful scenery. Check out the entire construction process to see what it's all about. Miscellaneous stone masonry The stones used will be natural stones found near the site to blend in with the landscape. Stones of various shapes and sizes are placed along the string. The selection of stones is done by the slinger We select the appropriate stone based on the site conditions. Concrete is poured between each stone to create a strong bond. We will stack stones again. As the stones pile up, it becomes impossible to stack more stones from the front, so the working area becomes limited to about 30 cm. Stonework on narrow scaffolding is more physically demanding than you might imagine. Concrete structures that did not fit in with the landscape were With the help of artisans, it has been transformed into a beautiful stone wall that blends perfectly with the landscape. Concrete staircase construction Slope protection