So in the script I wrote this in a bullet think of anything in specific and that's If I hit a point where I'm not quite sure or two outside the voice of the script literally the script is at to the point that's following It's a very utilitarian method, but it helps problems where different ideas will make unstated Then the longer I stared at it the more absurd open to The Art of Editing and The Snowman, begging for a joke or some setup for a pun his seat, and now after building it up, really The Snowman I'm now going to drop this entire The Snowman is a 2017 film, directed by Tomas novel of the same name written by Jo Nesbo. The film stars Michael Fassbender as down-on-his-luck the identity of a serial killer who abducts as a calling card. This film has gained substantial notoriety Even the director agrees. In an interview with the Norwegian national that due to the rushed shooting schedule of as much as 10 to 15 percent of the script gaps in the story that needed to be either I would suggest that things are even more Failing to shoot fifteen percent of the film that the only solution is to excise the plot on the cutting room floor. The end result is delirious. "She said she was going to visit a friend, "Why did you come to me, I've been suspended." I'm going to admit I'm excited and nervous still not sure I entirely have a handle on Every time I watch it something new jumps There's always another detail that goes another scene that connects to events that But we're going to try! As we get into this I want to re-state the When people say a movie has bad editing they're kinds of editing: shot to shot, and scene editing. Momentary editing is the nitty gritty editing: placed, how far apart are they spaced, how edit actually work, does intercut dialogue so on and so forth. Structural editing is the bigger picture: as a whole paced, when are flashbacks inserted, are foreshadowing and callbacks properly implemented, The Snowman, like Suicide Squad, is littered Extending from this, one of the things that the discussion here. We're talking about the art of editing, In a lot of ways editing is simply the vector of the filmmaking, or more specifically we're because of how they end up manifesting in For example, early in the film is a scene officer, Gunnar Hagan, gives him a whole "clean speech in the cafeteria. Stripped to an absolute bare-bones factual The dialogue is fine, the acting is fine, up to insert to medium, the use of split edits, But. For some reason almost every single shot in Harry's shots moving from right to left, In isolation these are, also, fine, but consideration cut together, and the edit doesn't consider to the other resulting in a scene that feels ping pong ball. And then spice it up with this jarring edit. The conventional editing style, which is generally of motion from one shot to the next, while give the audience a moment to reset. This is conventional continuity editing, which motion, with slight discontinuity used to suspenseful scene. Going back to the cafeteria example, there's It's two characters having a low key conversation Maybe using this motion on a couple key bits scene, or if Harry's shot had some slight would be conveying emotional state, but simply shot for an entire minute of dialogue, it's Again, while these issues are going to intersect from the camera work to the script, filmmaking in one area will impact the ability for others So while we will be talking about a whole issues from the direction of the edit. Before we go further we should probably address with the source material already know where I've already said the main character's accurate, but it is accurate to this film. In Norweigian the character's name would [Mispronouncing name] which if you were to translate to English not to keep the proper Norwegian pronunciation, just anglicize it to Harry Hole. "Harry Hole?" "Harry Hole" "Mister Hole?" "This is Harry Hole's phone." "Ah, the great Harry Hole" I don't have a point here, but it is very In the film's prologue, a woman and her Jonas. The boy believes that the abusive man is his his father after he sees Jonas and his mother The woman threatens to tell Jonas' wife to abandon them entirely, and drives off. The woman and her son follow, but the woman road onto a lake, and refuses to leave the stand and watch as his mother and the car The Snowman centers around alcoholic detective and personal lives by focusing on work instead He has a rocky but caring relationship with who is possibly also his biological son. Harry falls into the snowman case when he transferred into Oslo from Bergen. Katrine is already pursuing the snowman killer detective Gert Rafto, was murdered by the a string of murders in Bergen, though she While investigating the disappearance of Birte Katrine's bag. Katrine suspects that a recent series of missing old case, and though Harry is initially dismissive the case files that night, and the two discuss next morning. A few days later a similar missing person in specific. When Harry and Katrine respond to the call alive and well in her home. However shortly after leaving a second call Sylvia's decapitated body is found in the up on a snowman at the bottom of a large storm With a confirmed murder Harry is given clearance murders quickly in order to avoid negative bid for the non-International-Olympic-Comittee-trademark-infringing Katrine suspects the killer is slimeball industrialist murder victim nine years earlier, or if not who has some connection to several of the that he works at. Harry discovers Katrine's personal stake up on clues Bergen detectives failed to investigate Rafto's death a suicide. While he is away Katrine intercepts a notification with the GPS indicating it's in the home Ignoring regulations and possibly seeking where she finds his body in the garage, decapitated Katrine is suspended, but investigation of remains of Birte Becker and a victim otherwise "How many bodies?" "Birta Becker and Ms. Dahl." Actually, on my seventh viewing of the movie from when Katrine drops Harry off after they "And Harry, she's not the only one. Look, this is Hilga Dahl. Missing two weeks, similar age, two children, On one hand it was established earlier in investigate that disappearance, and the reference Ferguson half-whispers all of her lines. "Look this is Hilga Dahl." While the Oslo police rule Vetlesen's death as it is nearly identical to the staging of suspicious. Katrine, convinced that Stop must be the killer, He gives her a key to his hotel suite and She goes to the room and sets up surveillance possible, but is intercepted, kidnapped, and arrives. The following morning Harry finds Katrine's her finger having been severed so the killer Returning to the Becker household and talking together the identity of the killer, Rakel's substituted at Vetlesen's clinic, and has to their partners and had abortions as surrogate abandoned him when she died. At the moment that Harry has put it all together, them out to the cabin where the film began. Harry confronts Mathias at the cabin, saving scuffle. Harry then pursues Mathias out into the woods, in the shoulder, but before he is able to of thin ice and sinks into the lake. In the epilogue Harry is back at work with Credits roll. "I'll take it." I'm not cutting that short, by the way. There is zero wrap up. None. None at all. Nothing. It just, the movie just ends. That's, it just ends. It's just what happens, just ends. So, I don't know if that montage does justice is in this film. Writing a summary is actually a challenge to make sense, but I worry that in doing so details that clash with comprehensibility. Like, I skipped describing the scenes with because I don't know how to describe what showing up past a certain point. There's a not-insubstantial amount of screen victim that Vetleson has aquired on behalf to implicate either of those characters as showing up at a certain point with no explanation, The inexplicable editing of the film begins Like, the issues here are absolutely not limited story or motives and timelines that don't The cutting of the opening moments, as Jonas which is to say that the shots being in the relationship between the edits is too abrupt. Just to be clear, this is on the magnitude To isolate one cut in specific that might mother puts on a sweater and moves to leave down to the living room. The shot selection and screen direction are is too big. The first shot ends a few frames too soon, late, making the cut feel wrong, like she's with every single shot for almost two straight It makes for an intro that is disjointed and for a film that already has a problem with Like, especially since this is the opening The introduction is so important to setting like I really need to explain why it's a series of cuts that are so needlessly jarring The one half-theory that I have is that it that was later dropped, that there was some and rhythm and is no longer present. The only evidence I have to support this, of some of the actual titles. At the end of the prologue Mathias' mother up and holds on this shot for pretty much the show title to appear. It's a nice, moody static shot with lots The Snowman. Beat, beat, cut to Harry's vodka bottle. I mean, that makes sense to me. It doesn't just look like it was edited for the main title. Instead the film cuts from this to a black another, flat font, for 22 seconds before credit and the main title. I'm just guessing here, this is pure speculation, like a temp placeholder that someone threw and then no one could agree on where these ran out of time and money and they just never But, okay, so even if that's the reason it doesn't even start to explain the baffling when Harry returns to his apartment and finds across a series of jump cuts, Harry shoots and remains unbothered by the fact that a Harry then just... stands there. There is, there's no intelligible cause connected shots, and this will be the pace Moving on, I want to talk for a bit about ADR is automated dialogue replacement, sometimes These are processes where an actor's on-set with audio from a studio performance, possibly I touched on this a bit in my video on The "The dialogue in the film has overwhelmingly the performances feel so flat and disjointed. The emotion of the face and lips just doesn't Also there's a different character to the versus the dialog that's recorded on set. It's subtle, but pervasive." Now, a thing that I want to stress here is Basically every movie has some, or even a ADR is a problem-solving tool, and it can That said, heavy use of ADR is a sign that The elephant in the room here is, of course, Kilmer's lines have been replaced. "Can you tell me, what, was your wife seeing In 2015 as part of a battle against throat trachea that permanently altered his voice, leaving his tongue quite swollen. "I had a, a tumour a couple years ago, and "Just for no reason?" "Yeah, I'm, I'm fully recovered, except Stallone on Quaaludes." During his performance in The Snowman it is which makes the difference between the facial "I need some information on a patient, Layla Additionally attempts are made to mask the Kilmer speak on screen, and unfortunately - in just the worst, most obvious way possible. "She said she was going to visit a friend, "Why did you come to me? I've been suspended." Now, the reason I want to specifically focus dialogue. It's a big part and is instantly noticeable biggest contributor to the deeper problems The movie is actually plagued with a lot of or reaction shots in order to construct entirely A really obvious example for demonstrating and the child Josephine Becker. The conversation is shot and edited otherwise with a bias towards the character who is currently Every line of dialogue is, in whole or in You've seen dialogue like this a hundred It's conventional, comfortable, and familiar. It adheres to the standard visual grammar This makes it all the more jarring when, at "He cried last week." "Why did you build the snowman facing the "I didn't build the snowman." Both sides of this exchange, the question This is an attempt in post-production to fill didn't build the snowman, and thus the snowman Not that that actually really matters, because the snowmen either way. The way that plot lines have been excised stuff, like the whole sequence around Oleg's So, Harry has gotten Oleg tickets to a concert. We first see them at the beginning of the We are then given this sequence of events Harry attends Oleg's hockey game, during sleeping pills. When asked if they want to get something to Oleg after the show. Harry and Oleg take the train to the concert, desire to track down his biological father. Harry and Oleg have a conversation about the and Oleg agrees to bring Harry. Oleg asks what the surprise is. Harry says "let's go find out." Jump cut to the two of them walking towards that someone at work gave him the tickets. "Someone at work got me the tickets." [Unusual singing] At the concert Oleg gets a text message saying them leave the concert so Harry can make a entirely out of off-camera dialogue Katrine woman came in asking for him by name, and pick them up. Aside from the utter lack of continuity between the two of them in the seats, and the fact phone, I need to make a call" just to re-state she doesn't know and has never met, a text phone. Katrine drives Harry and Oleg to Rakel's Harry gets back in the car with Katrine and, home, they'll drive out to the farm in the "Take me home. We'll go in the morning." As the cherry on top, in the next shot there's apartment and already has the pills that he had a chance to actually get yet. An even simpler example of a scene or transition time later. Harry and Katrine leave the farm house and highway, they recieve a call telling them the car just keeps driving. "The call came in two minutes ago. Her husband asked specifically for Inspector "How could?" "Turn the car around." And the timeline of these events, as presented, The edit suggests that it's only been a are thus only a few minutes away, but it's Hell, the farm house itself is worthy of its spatial editing. When the characters first arrive there's there's this large, prominent cement structure to the chicken coop. On the second visit, again driving next to twin sister tells them Sylvia is missing, coop, which is, again, right next to the house, back of a snowmobile in the middle of a field, cement structure, which is also right next So why this whole bit with the snowmobile? Where is this? Rafto's entire sub-plot, told in flashbacks here to fill time. It doesn't actually tell us much about the murders, and Rafto himself is a one-note character There's also a really good example of how against the film, because most of the segments visually, as flashbacks, but they make no Like, okay, what is a flashback in the first It's a memory. The standard structure for a flashback is character has reason to reflect on things events are shown to the audience. This can be a strong memory trigger, a character getting the information from an external source This is how the Rafto sequences are built Harry browses through Katrine's documents, He looks at an old magazine and transitions The problem is that the language of film implies The magazine contains no meaningful information this conversation, and the narrative implication of this moment. But there's no way that these could be Harry's These are parallel sequences depicted for a real problem by implying things that Harry It makes it difficult for the audience to what Harry does and doesn't know, and if follow the protagonist's train of thought, look random and unmotivated. This is pretty much exactly what happens in That's not even the film's most baffling So much of this film is shot through dirty windows, that as a visual metaphor it gets It's one thing to use it sparingly for specific and moments to imply something emotional about with each other, or the audience's relationship stops meaning anything on its own and just choice. There's also a fundamental tone problem I know that comes up a lot in the movies I From what I understand, Jo Nesbo's approach black comedy. Not outright farce, but definitely a bit absurdist bit absurd. The idea of a murderer whose calling card but the film plays it 100% straight, resulting soundtrack ratchets up the tension while the I actually laughed out loud in the theatre to Katrine's death. She leaves her apartment and glances at a nose, before the camera swings around to reveal actually a Sad Evil Snowman! BWAAAAAH!!! It's a very, very funny moment, but I'm So far we've mostly been pulling out examples due to poor flow and continuity, but the ultimate core mystery itself. Now, the standard formula for a mystery is and then narrow them down as the characters build a case. The Snowman involves so many fanciful leaps, rooms, hauling numerous bodies long distances scenes, and so few meaningful details of psychology only suspects that have really been eliminated Outside of the scene in the diner, the characters They don't talk about clues, they don't rarely talk about motive or opportunity or Harry assembles a team to work on the case, They aren't utilized or consulted, and aside tells Harry he can't have a copy of a crime with the case at all. "Can I keep this?" "No." "Can I keep this?" "Sure." Clues that are shown to the audience, like collected. The one scene where the case is actually discussed is still full of so many seemingly unmotivated after repeat viewings it's difficult to to learn from this conversation, and the whole the shot of Harry turning the plate of sausage It's a dramatic visual, but is, forgive characters are actually talking about. The preceding line is like "are you hungry?" taunting her with this action, like the dismembered But I don't know, because why would he do The note that Harry first receives is at best before the midpoint of the film. It's also worth mentioning that the note Mister Police I gave you all the clues, appears a stack of blue stationary in Mathias' house. There's a deeper problem here in the film us in on Harry's train of thought. He takes a huge detour to Bergen for extremely is Rafto's daughter, but that only sort and does nothing to advance the actual case. On top of that, Stop's viability as a suspect While there's a reasonable implication that to bury an embarrassing news story, and then was investigating that disappearance, there's to do with the new murders, or even any of Nothing is even suggested about how he would to kill virtually any of the victims. To cap it off, Harry then teleports back to I'm not usually that much of a stickler time, except in this case we already devoted fact that travelling from Oslo to Bergen is Like, in real life the express train between A movie primes the audience's expectations that there are so many baffling cuts and creative deliberate stylistic choices and which are Random unmotivated jump cut! The movie is so full of inconsistencies in trains the audience to notice inconsistencies film. The reveal of Mathias as the killer feels the justification being concentrated in the While on one hand it's incredibly easy to the character with a lot of screen time who called the Law of Economy of Characters, and that smokes, it's also difficult because with missing details and dropped trains of This is actually one of the things I love Granted it tends to take the form of being something. Also it's really funny that Mathias is killing no one actually suspects him. We don't find out what Rafto knew, and there's Mathias assaults, kidnaps, and kills Katrine, and doesn't even really know he exists. Now, maybe he killed Katrine to frame Stop, no one follows up on anything directly connected of Stop is him sitting in his hotel room looking brunette that was ready to jump him at the And that's weird that a red herring like instead of being in some way actively resolved, has implicating evidence when he takes Katrine's people to see her alive. Compounding that, the movie's poor communication to protect Mathias' identity, and then the her son then calls Harry and all but tells It's not really a game of cat and mouse, murdering a whole bunch of people, and the they don't bother to collect evidence. "He was watching us the whole time. He's playing games." I'm not normally inclined to crawl through It's not weird for trailers to use elements I don't think that's wrong or deceptive, a bit of a forensic aid in assembling a picture odd as they do. The ending of the movie feels like it was shots that were never meant to go together, The eyelines between these two shots don't and Harry is clearly, like, raising a rolling the room. One of the trailers for the film feature a appears in the climax, and most importantly Harry trying to get into a burning building. Clearly the original ending of the film involved to die. And while we're crawling through the trailers, of our own. Since we just talked about the penultimate a garage door or something and not walking this frame of Harry opening a garage door a car. Several other notes from the Snowman are featured. There are snippets of a conversation in the Harry has this seemingly quite important line. "Building snowmen, cutting things up into to establish order." There's a snowman kill that otherwise doesn't One of the bigger, and odder, things from of footage from a very different sequence With Sylvia being pursued across a cement her foot caught in a metal foothold trap, accurate than Sylvia being overpowered and Also the colour grade in the trailer is extremely Now, it's not weird for the grade in a trailer I'm at a loss to think of another high-profile The trailer is much more saturated and higher This detail probably wouldn't have stood that the grade in the finished film is so watching untouched footage. I don't think it's truly untouched, but of dynamic range to confirm, and, like, here's website - the Alexa XT was the camera they Pretty close! Can you blame me?! I mean, I don't think this is what happened, I think this is probably just a creative decision the street walked up to me and told me that applying the grade, and then the producers to fix, I wouldn't call them a liar. So that's The Snowman, or at least a lot It is both infuriating and fascinating because in this condition. Typically if something were this incomplete instead we get to witness the end product Because of what they failed to shoot, the was missing, taking deep bites out of everything parade of things that just don't quite line