5-6 eggs. In this video I will show you 7 quick, easy and delicious cabbage recipes . Pinch of salt. I'm curious - which recipe are you excited to try out first? . 2 tbsp olive oil. 1 medium onion. Add onions to the pan. fry for about 5 minutes over medium heat until translucent. grate 1 carrot. add carrots to the pan. and fry for another 2 minutes. 2 lb / 900g white cabbage. add cabbage to the pan. and fry for another 10-12 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Season with Salt and black pepper. 1/2 tsp oregano. 1/2 tsp sweet paprika. 1/2 tsp garlic powder. 1/2 tsp onion powder. 1/2 tsp dry parsley. add cabbage to eggs and mix well. 1 tbsp all purpose flour (optional). 1 tbsp olive oil. fry just for 2 minutes until the bottom is set. and place in oven at 400F/200C for 4 minutes. Fresh parsley (optional). Add Manchego cheese (optional). finish under the broiler for 1 minute until cheese is melted. sprinkle with fresh parsley (optional). Get ready for the second most delicious cabbage recipe . mm...delicious . 4 eggs. 1/2 cup / 120 ml whole milk. Season with Salt and black pepper. 1 cup / 120g Gruyere cheese. Heat 2 tbsp olive oil over medium heat. 2 medium onions. fry the onion for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally. Wishing you a day filled with good vibes, happy thoughts, and positive energy . 2 garlic cloves. Season with salt and black pepper. Add garlic to the onion and reduce heat to low, cover and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. 1 small cabbage. add the cabbage to the onion and fry for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Season with salt and black pepper. Fresh thyme or 1 tsp dry. Grease the pan with 1 tsp butter. Thinly slice 2 medium potatoes. Add cabbage. Mix well and add on top of the potatoes. Bake at 180degC/360degF for 40 minutes. Get ready for the third most delicious cabbage recipe . Serve with 1 tbsp sour cream (optional). mmm...delicious . Heat 2 tbsp olive oil over medium heat. 1 onion. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until golden, about 10 minutes. 1 green bell pepper and 1 red bell pepper. Pinch of salt. Add peppers and cook, stirring often, until they begin to soften, about 5 minutes. 3 garlic cloves. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about a minute. 1 small cabbage. Add the cabbage. 1 serrano chile or jalapeno. Add chiles. 1/2 tsp coriander. 1/2 tsp cumin. 1/2 tsp caraway seeds. cook, stirring, until cabbage has wilted, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 1/2 tsp cayenne. add 14.5 oz / 411g chopped tomatoes with juice. Reduce heat to medium-low, stir, cover partially and bring to a simmer. until tomatoes have cooked down and the mixture is thick and fragrant, about 20 to 25 minutes. fresh parsley or cilantro. Stir in parsley or cilantro, taste and adjust seasonings. With the back of your spoon, make 6 depressions in the vegetables. add an egg into each depression. Cover and cook for 5 to 6 minutes, until the eggs are set. Sprinkle the eggs with salt, pepper and the Get ready for the fourth most delicious cabbage recipe . mm...delicious . 2 Eggs. Season with black pepper add 1 tbsp all-purpose flour and mix well. 1/2 head of small cabbage. cut the cabbage as thin as possible . transfer cabbage to a bowl. 1 carrot. Green onion. 4 thin slices of ham (optional). Dill or cilantro (optional). 1/4 tsp red pepper flakes. If you are adding ham, add a small pinch of salt as the ham is already salty. Mix well. Heat a 10-inch skillet over medium heat and add 1 tbsp butter. Fry for 3-4 minutes over medium heat. Add eggs. Season with salt and black pepper. add 2 slices Gruyere cheese. and you can definitely finish cooking on the stove just by putting the lid on, but I prefer under the broiler in the oven . just do whatever works best for you . Get ready for the fifth most delicious cabbage recipe . mmm...delicious . 1 cabbage about about 1 kg /2 lbs. transfer cabbage to a bowl. 3 garlic cloves. Add garlic to bowl. 2 tbsp fresh sage or 1 tbsp dried sage. Add sage to bowl. 130g / 4.5 oz Gruyere. Add cheese to bowl. 1/4 cup / 30g Parmesan. Mix well. 450g / 1 lbs potatoes. Add potatoes to bowl. season with salt black pepper. 1/2 tsp Nutmeg. Mix well. Grease the pan with 1 tbsp butter. transfer the cabbage and potatoes to the pan. 470 ml / 2 cups whole milk. 4 tbsp sour cream or creme fraiche. Mix well. Bake at 375degF / 190degC for 1 hour and 20 min, until top is golden brown. During the first hour, press 2-3 times the vegetables down into the liquid, using the back of a spoon. Get ready for the sixth most delicious cabbage recipe . mmm...delicious . 2 eggs. add a pinch of salt. 1/2 small cabbage. transfer cabbage to a bowl. add egg mixture to cabbage. 1/4 tsp thyme. 1/4 tsp garlic powder. 1/4 tsp sweet paprika Black pepper. Mix well. Heat 1/2 tbsp butter over medium heat. add the mixture to the pan and spread evenly over the pan. fry for 2-3 minutes. flip and cook for another 2-3 minutes. flip again and add some mozzarella cheese. Black pepper (optional). Get ready for the seventh most delicious cabbage recipe . mmm...delicious . 1 small head cabbage. slice the cabbage it as thinly as possible. Heat a large pan over medium-high heat and Once the butter is melted, add the cabbage. Season with salt and black pepper. Saute for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Turn off heat and stir in 1 tbsp apple cider vinegar. Sprinkle with thyme (Optional). Thanks for watching, liking and subscribing . mm...delicious . Have A Delicious Day!