Let's talk about dopamine. People call it the chemical of want Well, here is how it works. From an evolutionary standpoint, your brain rewards you for anything that by releasing a neurotransmitter That's the reason why it feels so damn good because our brain thinks that sex and that a fat piece of meat equals Let's look at an example. As soon as you're standing and you have the choice to either your brain will tell you to pick the one as it knows that it will make you So naturally you will choose the chocolate. Now you might say &quot;well, that's not too bad and that's true. But as soon as our brain it will try to stimulate the craving until you develop an urge for it, and that's when the addiction kicks in For this reason people become overweight, The thing is that dopamine doesn't know It doesn't know that eating too much All it sees is a potential of pleasure and for this reason drug addicts are willing only to get that one hit of dopamine The terrifying reality is that almost exploits this deeply-rooted reward system There are millions of experts specifically to release as much dopamine as possible in order to make us come back That's why social media platforms switch from and that's why video games have levels They give us constant dopamine hits as we jump from one post to the next one and what makes it even easier for us junk food, porn, alcohol, drugs or is that it doesn't take us any effort. We simply have to consume and are instantly It's crazy to believe, but we live in a world which is designed in order to maximize profits. It is scientifically proven that on the decisions we make That's why ultimately dopamine and that's why billions of people unconsciously instead of creating the lives Alright. So, I honestly believe that this problem and that every single person is impacted by it, and that's why I want to tackle it in order to change my relationship with dopamine and hopefully to inspire you guys to do the same. So here are the rules. For the next 7 days I won't be allowed No social media. I deleted all and I won't be able to access No digital entertainment. I'm not allowed to watch TV or Netflix No junk food. Which means that I can't eat Regarding beverages, I will only drink water, so also no Coke Zero. No alcohol and drugs, no porn and no music. This is something I wanted to try for myself because I'm constantly listening to music So, now as the rules were set, I was ready to embark on this journey. Enjoying the last coke. I'm gonna miss it. I'm ready to go, and I'm looking forward and I hope that I'm going to see Let's go! Unlike many of my other mornings, this one was without music. Instead of grabbing my phone right away I started my day in silence. Hey. Come on, this is like the cutest Alright, yeah, I'm just going To be honest, it feels great. I haven't really kept up my routine for It's always a little bit difficult so I didn't go for any walks, and all that kind of stuff, so it was When I came back home, and made myself cereals with milk for breakfast. Instead of watching YouTube videos I basically did nothing... Which was kinda boring. After that, it was time for work. In the next hours, I reviewed a script and planned the shortlist I pretty quickly started to get into a good flow because my phone was still I didn't see any good use in having it with me as so I just focused on my work After that it was time for a good old Spanish food is the best. First thing I noticed when I came into the car: I immediately turned it off, but it's just I normally listen to music all the time, Today I'm not going to listen to anything. Next up, I went to the supermarket in order to shoot the intro of this video. So, as you can hear, there is music running here. There's just nothing I can do. When I came back home, I filmed all the different which turned out to be a lot This is definitely the most stupid I'm not actually eating the chocolate. So, the day is getting to an end, the sun is already setting back here and yeah, it has been a successful Overall, I felt very very focused today, because there were just no distractions Yeah, I got a lot of things done. I shot the whole intro of this video I just felt super super productive today. So, you might wonder why and the thing is that for the last one I was just not focused, I didn't have I didn't want to stand in front of a camera Like, I thought at least 10 times or if I should push it back and shoot it later. That's when I thought like &quot;okay, I've got and I have to focus on the things And the dopamine detox doesn't mean that Like, my dopamine level is but what I'm focusing on are like social media, like alcohol that just create those impulsive behaviours. Like, everybody knows when you're just You just have your phone open with Instagram and that's just the thing. Like, as soon as then our brain just rewires and we have these impulsive behaviours but we just do it right away, automatically, because our brain tells us &quot;okay, I'm going so I'm going to do it&quot;. And that's something I definitely want to and control my own actions and yeah, that's why I'm going to do in order to just see what kind of benefits The sun is set, the birds are still out and... I still have a couple of hours to kill for today and I'm not quite sure what I'm going to do yet. I don't know what's wrong with this dog. She just has so much energy. Bad news. All of my cereals are empty. Actually, I wanted to just eat a couple but I'm going to stick to Spanish food again. I want one of those really bad right now. You're not gonna get anything! I'd say that the second day was just I spent all day long editing on a YouTube video and most importantly, It felt like the motivation that I had been So, for the majority of the day I've been editing I made some real progress there and now in order to get back to my daily routine and stay fit. Honestly, sport without any music... Kind of sucks. Do you know what's the funniest That he's just like one big muscle Look at this! He's just always under pressure! Right? Say hello! Hello! I love this dog. When it comes to food, I had the huge advantage so in the evenings I always had The evenings after dinner were usually and instead of working another few hours I decided to play with the animals and which really helped me to slow things down So, I just watched the sun go down and... Yeah, to be honest, I'm feeling super present. I'm always just like listening to the birds That's just like... It's so liberating, because... Normally I would obviously take out my phone and right now it's just like... A moment of calm. So right now it's 5:40 a.m. This is much earlier than I normally get up, but today... I'm gonna go for sunrise because Let's do this. Currently on the way to the viewpoint. I haven't been here before to be honest. I think it's gonna be a good sunrise. Look at that drop going down here. This is epic, hey! I think the sun is coming up in a minute, I think we have the perfect timing. Look at that. Let's go! To be honest, I've always struggled with I never got started with flying an FPV drone because I thought that it would take I wouldn't have time for my other work. But, as I didn't spend any time watching Netflix I was able to replace those toxic activities like flying my FPV drone. Being up in the air, cruising through Not only because I was flying with but because I finally prioritized my time So, I just finished my flight. If you've been watching my last videos, you know that I am currently practicing and yeah, it's going well so far and... I'm definitely making some progress here. Amazing location, one of There are just so many cliffs And... yeah. I don't know, I don't really go because I'm always too lazy, It's 100% worth it all the time. Hey! Hi! Look who's been waiting for me. So, the bad thing about all of is that you can very very easily and I definitely saw that happening Like, I was addicted to videogames when I was 15, I definitely had an unhealthy relationship and as I just realized that don't contribute to the things I really decided to make some drastic changes, and that's why I didn't play I stopped eating any junk food at all Like, I don't eat any sweets but I just replace Also, I definitely improved my relationship And especially during Covid times, when you're locked at home and then it just becomes a lot easier and I also saw that happening for myself. For example, with social media. I did a social media detox one year ago, and I honestly remember it as because I was just feeling so present and I was just feeling purely alive And after I finished this detox, I decided and had some different rules Eventually, as time progressed, I stopped paying attention to them and I also got back to spending which is something I don't want to do. To be honest, this is something I'm always to get rid of these bad habits and that can make me addicted in a bad way. Keep your distance to these things. Like, but as soon as you do it all of the time, then you don't have the ability I've been editing on my FPV video and and yeah, normally I watch when I have lunch or in the evening, but as I didn't do that for the last days, lifted off my shoulders, because I don't have and my videos are okay just the way they are. That really helps me... Kind of like get into a flow and without thinking too much about if they should be And also I'm feeling a little bit more creative But I think it's enough work for today, and that's why I'm gonna go for a run now. Let's go. Also, running without any music, I actually enjoy it because you can and also you just take in instead of, like, just being in your own world. I wasn't only able to notice but actually during every moment along the way. Before I started this detox, I was so self-absorbed with everything else besides the actual things I would think about a social media post that or be lost in a song instead of But the less time I spent bombarding my brain the more I was able to drown out the noise I felt like my brain had some sort of reset. So, I'm currently on the way to one of It's called San Salvador, I'm actually just going there take a couple of drone shots and... Just have a good time, that's all! I don't know why, but I'm just falling in love Overall, I really feel that my mental clarity I just don't hop from one activity but I give my brain some time to actually and therefore I'm overall And actually also a friend of mine, he also told me by himself &quot;dude, like &quot;what's happening?&quot;. So yeah, I definitely enjoy it so far because and I'm not distracted that much. And it just feels like I experience everything because I'm just in the moment thinking about the next Instagram and I'm just spending all of my time in my life So... I'm currently making my way to the beach. I didn't swim in the ocean this year so far, and that's why I'm gonna make use of it. This is going to be good. So, my dopamine detox is and I have to say that I really enjoyed Obviously there were some temptations and sometimes I also felt bored, when I just didn't have anything to do. I couldn't watch Netflix, but I just compensated for that time which is a pretty good alternative And I just feel like you have to escape In our modern world in order to just zoom out and to reflect on where you're at Just see everything objectively and And I really feel that I was able to do that I think that they are necessary and that everything around us is kind of So yeah, I really enjoyed this detox and I hope that I can keep up the benefits and hopefully I'll also make Right now, the only thing I've got to do... Is jump in the ocean. So, what do I take away from these last 7 days? Well, things like junk food, alcohol Other things like social media Driving without any music is... Fucking boring. But from one day to another, I noticed more First off, I was able to restore my daily routine That walk felt amazing. As my brain was not constantly overwhelmed I was able to replace those toxic activities with things that actually I don't know why, but I'm just falling I was able to focus my time on the things like working on my business, doing sports I normally needed a lot of motivation but from time to time they kind 5:40 a.m. Let's do this. I not only became more productive and focused, but I overall feel like everything Can you see how fast the clouds are moving? It's insane. Not having all of these distractions at my fingertips and wipe my mind clean These 7 days really showed me once again how much noise we usually expose It was mind-opening to see how can improve so many aspects of our lives and therefore our overall happiness. I think that a detox like this can help everyone and it is the first step to gain back So, try it for yourself.