Take one. Okay. Hello, everybody. Welcome to Home Movies. Today we're making turkey. If you would like the longer version of this episode and how the turkey sort of grand scheme of things in terms of and like the day you can watch Obviously. But if you're just here for turkey, This is a crazy in here. Every year I say that. But every year it's true. Turkey take two. I've done turkey 42,000 ways. I've done like slow roasted I've done dry brined mostly dry brined. Today we're going to do it the way that I think it is your turkey. Dry brine, meaning You can add in seasonings, flavorings. Today we're going to do like garlic Some sage very like Thanksgiving Thanksgiving. But there's fennel. It's kind of like if you love Italian But it's not so fennely to feel put off by it It will go with everything else regardless I am making this not at Thanksgiving time. I'm not getting the like because those turkeys are still with us Very difficult because most people eat turkey This is on the larger side of a turkey. For me personally, I think a like 12-pound This is almost 15. So for your turkey again, You will need two rimmed baking sheets. These are your standard sheet trays. They have a rim. These are not cookie sheets that things slide off and on. And a wire rack. Again, if you are making Thanksgiving Like even if you're not making a turkey wing stock, If you only have one, I'm gonna get my dry ready in a second, The first step you're going to do is remove the plastic, One time I did, I think I have 100 times. I can't imagine every person has seen I've ever done. I'm sure you exist. But like. Or maybe you enjoy it. In which case I'll tell it again. I roasted the giblets inside the turkey. It was disgusting. Don't do that. One important thing with the turkey So that was side one. What awaits us in side two. This is the bag I forgot. I took out that. I took out the first side, The liver. Yeah, like all dry brines, this is going to be I use light brown sugar. I think it has more flavor. This basic If you're making a lot more turkey This rub also is excellent on chicken and your turkey Don't worry about that. I am very sensitive to sweet foods. I don't care for them, but without It does kind of lack a festiveness The color is lacking. You would miss it if it were gone. Okay, so this is your basic dry This would be good as is We are going to sort of I'm just going to grind the pepper to the best of my ability. I'm like out of breath grinding pepper. And then I'm going to finely You can crack these with a rolling pin, with a knife you're not looking for You are just kind of looking for them whole individual seeds. Does that sound good? I'm worried for some people for Thanksgiving, of the rest of the meal, If you're like, I hate fennel, then you've already made up your mind And that's fine. I'm not talking to you. Make different People hate the weirdest things I get it. I mean, I don't like things, I think most people also don't like I don't know, like red bell pepper. I'm just going to do these three cloves And then I'm going to add some herbs. You could use all or none or one I'm going to do sage and then I'm going to use the other two Sage is a pretty intensely flavored herb. It tampers the fennel it like, enhances It's like it's meant to be here. It's it reminds you that it's Thanksgiving Okay. So sage. Garlic, fennel pepper, Okay. This turkey will get nothing but this rub. It's going to slowly penetrate The chicken. It's a turkey. It's going to slowly penetrate the turkey over the next 24 hours Even better. Anything that falls off I'm going By the way, for me, the place that I want And as you roast And some of this flavor is going to come It's like all going into the same place. And I'll just kind of like rub The bottom being important This is like extra credit, but I'll lift it up. And this is like pretty gross. Okay. Always yeah. Like the day before? Maybe two days before. Something that I'm really trying to do not always succeeding at, Yeah. Yeah. Klaviyo is an online marketing tool small business owner, reach your customers in a better Yeah, thank you. The cranberries are done. So nice. Everything is already done. Yum. Delish. It's day two. It's Thanksgiving day. This is our turkey. It looks wild. It looks like a bald bird, I'll be honest, a lot of the bits of, like, garlic But all of that brown sugar And you'll see there's, like, And I'm really grateful that the turkey's I'm going to put it on the sheet tray These are some older fennel bulbs that were just there Smaller vegetables because there's less water in them. And these are excellent with the turkey carcass. Is that a cat or a baby cat or baby.com. For this I actually kind of like it when you have that stay, like more supple and juicy skinnier wedges that get like You basically want to make room for inside the turkey. This garlic is sort of more But I also do eat it. And then it's herbs. I have sage I have oregano I have thyme. If you're basting. I would go either all olive oil which is what I'm going to do. And I'll probably start by pouring and then saving a little bit I think it looks nice and beautiful. Okay, I'm going to look it up. And I'll tip the turkey. And that's just getting rid Juices inside. And plopping it right down in the center there Thank you for your service. Okay. So I'm going to stuff it with some onion You don't ever I'll stick anything in the turkey. Really. I've stuck lemons in there before, But I'm not going to tuck the wings to get really golden brown. And I think keeping them And when the legs are trussed like there's like a bondage Wow. Not you. Not from you. People are going to hate this. Turkey weighs 14.13 pounds. Leonard weighs about 17 pounds. You're bigger than a turkey. Okay, well, so take one leg and, like, lift it up. Really lift it up. See the difference? Why do I feel like it's like a Pee-Wee Herman Bit? And cross it over the other one. As you lift that one up and then as tightly as possible. So you're not just tying them together. You're like, binding them together, Sage like roasted. It's kind of me. It's fresh fennel. There's fresh sage and there's leeks which is in allium So kind of like, that are already there in different ways It's going in at 325, I feel like I'm taking care of the turkey like I'm giving it a bath. I'm going to take the turkey out. Oh it's heavy. I'm going to give it some more of this olive oil butter Okay, that's all done. So now I'll give a little love to here. I love this part again. I just like feeling like I'm Every oven has hot spots, every oven. It's a little uneven, So I will go in the side now Okay. The turkey came out of the oven. I let it hang for like 10/15. You don't need to get too crazy. I'm going to very carefully transfer sheet from whence it came. How do you know when the turkey is done One is you can pierce the thigh, You could also temperature it. Put a thermometer in it. And the thigh part here, I never temperature of the breast. I think that that is not a good indicator of how well A juicy, juicy breast, perfectly cooked, is going to give you an undercooked leg It just is. That's my plea. So I'm just gonna let this sit over here. For as long as we need. I'm going to transfer so they're browned, They're caramelized, This is, like, ideal side dish. And you didn't have Turkey. I'm going to lift it. I can now hold it. It's easy to handle on the outside I can still feel it when I cut into it. I bet it steams in order to eliminate on my cutting board, I am going to start I'm doing this in a few different parts. I'm taking away the legs first, and from the body, trying to keep the skin intact, following this piece of meat here, carving it away So separating the joint from here, it should pretty effortlessly pull away. If it's not, I would be concerned that This is the oyster back here that like succulent piece of meat. It's also like really beautifully settled. It's still very, very warm Sorry if it's gross to talk about a turkey I like really will hunt because I feel like Chef's treat. Sometimes it's This is from the back. If you have someone in the kitchen that you love, But it's so many people here Leg. A thigh is difficult to slice, There's one very obvious thigh bone. I would put this in a soup pot. So then you have sort of this This knife again is, extremely dull. I said, I'm going to sharpen my knife I didn't I do find it nice to kind of put the dark meat in a pile. People do still like to sort of separate Now comes the breast part. It obviously has this coming all the way back. The skin is much tougher This should also just peel right away from the breast bone, which it is, and give you one beautiful breast I'm going to go out on a limb and say that So I'm So I've got two thighs, two legs, one Should people want more white meat That's what I'm gonna do. From this, I just took off that wing. So the bone is out, I don't go super, super thin. This isn't a deli sandwich. It's a really good turkey. Okay. Are you ready for this? Oh, these are our gorgeous vegetables, our fennel, I just popped it in the oven at 425. For too long, I forgot both of them. So you just want them warmed up because For this, I'm It's also nice to take these juices here and spoon over your turkey. And the rest of these vegetables here, but looks so nice to me. This is just some fennel fronds and some parsley you can use on top of our fennel. That's roasted Put a little parsley. We did it. Grab your plate. I'm going. Are we going? Good. Okay, I'm picking the skin. And I also pick a wing. I'm sorry to anyone else who wanted Is there thigh meat? Yeah, it's under here. It's under this wing. Who's next? So far, Jane's plate is looking I'm getting my sea legs [Doron] Oh, God. I have to do this on camera. This is beautiful.