We're gonna have a great night. I had a good omen coming here to the--to the show. As I stopped out front, the odometer on my car rolled over to a hundred thousand miles exactly as I stopped out front. I think that's a good omen. I also think there was a quicker way to get here. (audience laughing) Got to see a lot of Canada, so . . . (audience laughing) I love Canada. Very friendly country, Canada. It's national emblem says everything. A maple leaf, trees, shade, pastoral, peaceful, National emblem of the United States, an Eagle. A hunter, a raptor. Don't mess with the United States--will swoop down and rip you apart. Mess with Canada, we'll plug your gutters, eh. (audience laughing) From Canada, eh. You know, Canadians aren't saying &quot;eh&quot; as much as they used to. I don't know if you've been up there recently, but they're not saying &quot;eh&quot;, like-- I'll tell you what, they're secretly meaning to get rid of this vocal habit. The meetings are called &quot;eh eh.&quot; (audience laughing) Do you know how Canada was named? Do you know how Canada was named? When they wanted their own sovereignty? England, wasn't very happy about it. They said, &quot;Okay, yeah, &quot;you can have your own country, &quot;but it's going to have a &quot;silly name, consonants only, &quot;and three at that, like an airport.&quot; And they had a local official with a hat with nothing but consonants in it and they said, &quot;Now you reach in there &quot;and announce what you pull out, &quot;whatever he says, you write down, &quot;and that'll be the name of &quot;your silly little country-- &quot;big country.&quot; So, he reaches in and he goes, &quot;C, eh. &quot;N, eh. &quot;D, eh.&quot; (audience laughing) Did you get that? That's how Canada was named. (audience laughing) Should mention that, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my show that I am a member of Mensa, that society that you have to have an IQ of 148 or better to get in. Myself and a buddy share a membership. (audience laughing) I'm confused. Technology, you know-- I rented a car the other day and it had all the latest bells and whistles. You know, I--as I approached the car, I pushed a button and the lights came on, on the key fob. I pushed another button on the key fob and the car started. For a moment, I thought it was going to leave without me. (audience laughing) You're a great laugher, sir. Thanks for sitting up front. (audience laughing) You know, they have self-driving cars now. They drive all by themselves. How low would you feel if you were hitchhiking and a self-driving car passed you by? Just . . . (audience laughing) Technology, you know-- they're called smartphones, but anybody gets to use them. (audience laughing) I still have a landline and I have a landline at my house, so I can call my smartphone to find out where it is in the house. (audience laughing) Unless it's on vibrate, then I need a seismologist as well. (audience laughing) Thank you over there. Thank you. That's very difficult to get seismologists as a punchline. It really is. I think I pulled it off and you know, even more difficult to get as a punchline? The word &quot;loom.&quot; Loom. Here we go. Loom. I'm starting to get phone solicitations on my cell phone. That used to be just the province of landlines, but now I'm getting it on my cell phone. I get call on my cell phone the other day-- the other day they go, &quot;Hello, is this Mark Abel?&quot; I go, no, this is Milt Abel and he goes, &quot;Well, you've won.&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah, think about that. I got it wrong. I'm still in first place. This is . . . He goes, &quot;You've won a brand new &quot;Jeep Grand Cherokee.&quot; I said, well, great, send it over. He goes, &quot;Yeah, you've &quot;won a Jeep Cherokee, &quot;a colored TV, or a portable radio.&quot; Oh, give me a minute on that. (audience laughing) I'll stick with the Jeep. He goes, &quot;Yeah, you've won &quot;one of these three gifts. &quot;All you have to do is come down &quot;and listen to a 90 minute &quot;lecture on our condominiums.&quot; Ever gotten a call like this before? Yeah, so now I know what's up, so I go, you know what? You can keep the Jeep and now he can tell he's losing me, so he goes, &quot;Hey, wait a minute now, &quot;didn't you once fill out &quot;an entry form at a shopping mall &quot;or a movie theater &quot;over the past couple of years?&quot; That's what he asked. Pretty much saying, &quot;Have you been outside &quot;and signed your name? &quot;You're involved.&quot; You know? So, now I just want to get rid of him, so I say, you know what? I never frequent a place like that. I'm Amish. I shouldn't be on the phone right now. (audience laughing) Of course, my fear is now get a letter saying, &quot;You've won a buggy or a loom.&quot; (audience laughing) There it is, thank you. (audience applauding) You guys, triple back flip with the dismount right there. All right, so . . . so smartphones. I had a smartphone malfunction on me once. This is a true story. It would call 911 all on its own without me pushing any buttons the old clam shell, you know, and it would call 911. Now, when 911 is called and they don't hear from you, they assume you're incapacitated. The phone will speak first. It becomes a live walkie talkie. I'm picking blueberries in a field. I have my cell phone in my pants pocket and in the middle of nowhere, out of my pants, I hear a voice say, &quot;Do you need assistance?&quot; (audience laughing) And my first thought was, these aren't my pants. (audience laughing) It was in Malala. Middle of nowhere, so, more about cell phones. You know, I-- what else I want to share? I have a horrible memory. Let me mention that and I'm going to get back to cell phones, but I do have to qualify. I have a horrible memory. I was able to throw myself a surprise birthday party. Yeah. Yeah, I waited behind that couch for almost two hours. (audience laughing) I don't think you guys are taking me seriously on this, it's a joke. This is . . . (audience laughing) Let me try another party joke on you. A little party advice, never go to a costume party dressed as a pinata. Never-- yeah. Yeah, you'll get beaten and they'll take your candy. Don't do it, so . . . cellphones, you know, I've had my cell phone now is pretty good, but I've had incarnations. One I had, the GPS was off. It was always off. &quot;You are here.&quot; No, I'm not. I'm not here. I'm somewhere else. The only--the only place that phone got me accurately to, was the beyond part of Bed, Bath and Beyond (audience laughing) am I going too fast? Is that the story here? Am I . . . (audience laughing) You know, and now, of course, I have a great phone, but the auto-correct on the texting is a problem. You all know what I'm talking? Yes. Yes, it always guesses at what you're trying to say. It doesn't really--it's not accurate. It's like talking to someone who's hard of hearing. (audience laughing) Let's meet at three, &quot;You want to meet a tree?&quot; No, I don't want to meet a tree. (audience laughing) If my smartphone's auto-correct was entered into a spelling bee, it would come in list. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) So, it hasn't been a good week. I lost my vacuum cleaner. Talking about technology problems, I lost my vacuum cleaner. Yeah, I had a Roomba. You know, one of those automatic-- moves around on its own. Yeah, I left the front door open. (audience laughing) It wandered off. It is now cleaning the great outdoors with the other wild Roomba. Have you heard about the herds of wild Roomba out there? There's hundreds of them. They're combing back across the country, then they're reproducing on their own. Mine's not, mine's been fixed. (audience laughing) Now, I forgot what I was going to say. You've ever been talking to someone, they'll stop mid sentence and go, &quot;What was I going to say?&quot; (audience laughing) I don't know, I can take a shot at it, but the odds . . . can I buy a vowel? (audience laughing) People say, &quot;You're crazy, &quot;you talk to yourself.&quot; Think this is truly crazy, talk to yourself? No, it's more of what you say as the deciding factor, isn't it? There's a world of difference between, &quot;Gee, &quot;where did I put my car keys?&quot; and &quot;I am Satan's favorite pastime.&quot; (audience laughing) People say you're crazy if you answer yourself. Well, maybe so . . . (audience laughing) I'd say your definitely crazy if you answer yourself incorrectly. Might be problem there. &quot;Is that me in the mirror?&quot; No. (audience laughing) &quot;Who are you?&quot; Who are you? (audience laughing) &quot;I'm sorry I brought it up.&quot; Speaking of &quot;who are you&quot; in a real wild private party last month, I did a--I do a lot of corporate entertainment. Did a real wild private party last month. It was a company picnic for the Witness Protection Program. (audience laughing) Everybody had name tags on, but there's nothing written on them. (audience laughing) Made the mistake of asking, who made the potato salad? &quot;We don't know.&quot; (audience laughing) So, this is personal news, I recently divorced. It wasn't my idea. Apparently, my marriage had an expiration date. They're difficult to find. It was apparently underneath the toilet seat. Had I left the seat down, she might not have found it. (audience laughing) No, I'm as loyal as a dog. I really am. I--you know, and dogs are loyal. They really--you'd never see a dog go up to its owner and go, &quot;You know, we need to talk. &quot;I'm just not happy with you. &quot;I think I'd be happier &quot;with another owner.&quot; We saw a marriage counselor. I won't get into that. Anyway, the marriage didn't work. We argued a lot. We argued a lot and a long argument with my wife was a lot like watching a fireworks show, cause I'd sit there and go, well, that's the finale. Nope, wait, there's more. (audience laughing) Wow, look at the colors. It goes with the music and everything. This is outstanding. This is probably your best production. (audience laughing) We argued a lot in the car. When I was driving, my wife was to my side as my nag-igator. (audience laughing) What's deeper laugh? Not the girls on that one, ladies, women. I'm not a big fan of gender generalizations about what's with standup comedy. You know, comics, will come here and say, &quot;Oh, men do this &quot;and women do that.&quot; But there's always an exception. There's always--well, I will give you one gender generalization that I think holds true and that is that women are the only gender that give each other gifts for no occasion whatsoever. Women will do this, you know? &quot;I thought it was perfect for you. &quot;Wanted you to have it.&quot; Never see another-- never see a guy give another guy, &quot;Go ahead, Bob, open it.&quot; (audience laughing) &quot;It's pajamas, go on.&quot; (audience laughing) We argued a lot about the kids. My wife--ex-wife, keep forgetting to cross her out. (audience laughing) We argued about the kids. We argued whether we're going to spank our kids or not. I said, let's wait until they do something wrong. (audience laughing) That's a workable timetable, isn't it? Yeah, boy--and by the way, new parents out there, don't have dad do all the spanking when your kids are in trouble. You know, it wasn't fair. When I was a kid, my father did all the spanking. Made me hate and fear my father. I'd get in trouble. My mom would say, &quot;Wait until your father gets home.&quot; I'm like, no, I got a flight to Paris. (audience laughing) That wasn't fair to my dad. He'd come home and say, &quot;Hi, son, haven't seen you all day. &quot;Gotta beat ya. (audience laughing) &quot;You still love me, don't you?&quot; Oh, I cherish every visit, you bet. (audience laughing) Where's the logic in this, when parents would say, &quot;Hey, &quot;you could have hurt yourself. &quot;Don't ever do that again.&quot; Well, thanks for taking the chance out of it. (audience laughing) I miss being a kid. I do. I miss that lack responsibility. The smell of new clothes in September, remember that? Yeah, no longer a kid now 'cause ya grunt. You grunt more as you get older. You ever see a six year old kid grunt to pick something up? &quot;Is that my toy? (grunting) (audience laughing) &quot;Never dropping that again.&quot; (audience laughing) &quot;Geez, I think I pulled a muscle &quot;playing tag this morning. &quot;I gotta remember to warm up. (audience laughing) &quot;I'm not five anymore.&quot; (audience laughing) Kids have great stuff for breakfast. Captain Crunch-- got any Captain Crunch fans in our audience? (audience cheers) Yeah, yeah. What kind do you like? - [Audience Member] Peanut butter. - Peanut butter for the protein? Yeah, Cap--and then there's Crunch Berries for the vitamins and then regular Captain Crunch for the fiber. It's a whole diet regiment. Has anybody tried it recently? It rips the roof of your mouth apart. If it's not done right, you can die from it. It's a lot like puffer fish. (audience laughing) I had a Captain Crunch and I was at the hospital in an hour. I ate Captain Crunch and the roof of my mouth is just ripped to heck. There's skin dangling from the roof. (audience laughing) Let me speak to your-- I want to speak to your-- the guy that pays you, go get him. (audience laughing) Doctor comes up, &quot;Yes, I'm Doctor Smith. &quot;Is there a problem?&quot; (audience laughing) Did I interrupt your breakfast? &quot;Well, yes, you did.&quot; (audience laughing) So yeah, we argued about spanking the kids and, you know-- and we have three kids. We have three children. We have hundreds of photos of our first child. Dozens and dozens of our second. Just a handful of our third. There may be a fourth child there's no physical record of, ladies and gentlemen. (audience laughing) It changes, doesn't it? I know we have a lot of moms and dads out there. You know, our first child, we brought her home from the hospital. We waited two weeks before we took her anywhere out in the real world where all those germs awaited. Our second child, just a matter of a couple of days, took him on a stroll around the block. Our third child, we swung by Home Depot on the way home from the hospital. (audience laughing) We needed more of those outlet covers. The kids had chewed through the ones we had plugged into the wall. (audience laughing) Our first child, when she dropped her pacifier, we'd scoop it up and boil it for 30 minutes, 'cause it touched the ground. Well, you learn, don't you, parents? Second child, just run a hot water a minute. By the third child's dropped pacifier, I just pick it up, put it in my mouth, there, I got it good enough for you, it's ready to go. (audience laughing) Took the bullet for you also. Well, the toughest place with kids, a nice restaurant, right moms and dads? Three kids, they're all within five years of age, so, three kids at one table for one hour at a nice, posh-- impossible, impossible. That's where you learn to yell at the top of your lungs without the table next you hearing you. &quot;I told you to sit still &quot;for one second now.&quot; (audience laughing) And as much work as kids were, I gained weight as soon as I became a dad. You know why I gained weight as soon as I became a dad? You didn't finish that meal? Well, give it to me. I'll finish it. (audience laughing) I was the dog with the credit card. (audience laughing) Trying to lose weight. Started a new diet. Got to give up something. Always got to give up something. I'm giving up mirrors and scales. (audience laughing) No, I--you know, and well-- I have a theory why we're an overweight society. We are an overweight society and one of the reasons is, we don't have to chase our food anymore. Thank you for just getting the concept. The-- well, you know, we used to burn a lot of calories getting dinner on the table. I think there should be grocery stores for dieters, where food can run away at the pace it was alive. Little package of chicken on a railing, like at a dog race. (audience laughing) That way really overweight people can go, &quot;Well, the vegetables are stationary.&quot; (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Instead of asking, &quot;What's on special, &quot;anything weak or slow today?&quot; &quot;Got a . . . &quot;bad wheel. &quot;Sprained my ankle playing Sudoku. (audience laughing) Yeah, I go to the gym--go to the gym. You know, my focus-- I'm getting older. I'm not as flexible as I used to be that's for darn sure. Now, when I spill change from my hand, I count it before I decide to pick it up. How much . . . (audience laughing) How much is that? 17 cents. I can come back for that, that's no hurry. (audience laughing) Get that later. Now, my focus has changed. You know, from going to the gym-- I focus at the gym, used to go for vanity. You know, I used to go for vanity. Now I go for longevity. I've gone from keeping up-- keeping up appearances to just keep appearing. (audience laughing) Let me talk about age just for a second. I'm taking care of both of my parents. Yeah, Yeah. My mom is on oxygen 24/7, so, she has a cannula and a cord. I live with her 'cause I lost the house in the divorce. I know where it is. (audience laughing) Okay, let's go to the next one, so . . . (audience laughing) so, she's on oxygen 24/7, so, everywhere she goes, she has a cord to the base station and you know, I live with her. We played Hide and Go Seek once. (audience laughing) There you are again, Mom, found you right away. Every time, yeah, but she has Alzheimer's, so we can play over and over. (audience laughing) My dad is a loud talker. He's a very loud talker. Have you met him, Ariana? Have you met my dad? And he is a loud talker, isn't he? Yeah, I have a friend from the family here. He's a very loud talker. I'll be talking to him on the cell phone and people around me be going, &quot;Take him off speaker phone.&quot; He is off speaker phone. He's that loud, (audience laughing) but he got a TV recently and I'm trying to explain to him how to use the TV--over the phone. He lives in another city, so, I'm trying to explain over the phone, how to use a remote control. It's like playing Pictionary from another room, ladies and gentlemen and remote controls are so complicated now, aren't they? Used to just turn on and off the TV. That was it. Maybe change your channel. Now, you can launch a strike to Syria with one of these things if you want to, (audience laughing) so, I'm trying to explain to him over the phone and he's not the best at describing things. &quot;Well, the thingy has changed now, &quot;now there's a &quot;different thingy and that--&quot; Well, what thingy are you talking? And so he goes on and on with thingy. He uses thingy so much that thingy doesn't mean a thing, (audience laughing) but if we--we got the TV on, it's the Spanish Weather Channel, subtitled in Spanish, (audience laughing) so whenever I call him, I'll go, how you doing, dad? &quot;Estoy frio.&quot; Okay. (audience laughing) So dating now--dating at my age. My age you don't date, you interview for a position at my age. (audience laughing) People are set in there ways. They really are. Trying these-- trying these dating apps. Grindr I found very frustrating. (audience laughing) I wasn't sure that would work here, but apparently it did. Good. (audience laughing) Tinder, now, Tinder's very interesting. Tinder is pretty much based on a one night stand, to my understanding. I have--I mean, I don't use it because I'm used to obstacles, so, I use an app called Hinder. (audience laughing) Gives bad advice. I did go on a first day with this gal and she ended up crying at the end of the date, so that was the last date. It wasn't me. It was her previous boyfriend and she was still upset about it. In fact, she inferred that I would-- she would say all these things that he did that was disrespectful, hurtful, insensitive, selfish, you know? &quot;And then he would do this.&quot; And she'd look at me. &quot;And then he would do.&quot; It was really kind of insulting. It bothered me. I felt like I was at a luggage carousel at an airport and all this emotional baggage was coming down and none of it was mine, you know? I don't do that. I don't do that. I don't do that. I don't--okay, I do that one, I'll take that one, (audience laughing) so yeah, getting older. I saw my financial advisor recently. We met at the Dollar Store and . . . (audience laughing) I love the Dollar Store. It makes me feel wealthy because I don't look at the price. If I like it, it goes in the cart. You know? Greg, get yourself something. Throw it in there. I don't care, (audience laughing) but I saw my financial advisor and we discussed my retirement. I asked him, I said, what do I need to do to live at my present lifestyle till the end of my days? And he said, &quot;You need to die suddenly.&quot; (audience laughing) Start wrapping this up. I'm going to go-- I'm going to go camping, up in Oregon, because I live in San Jose, but I'm going to go up to Oregon. Drive up the Interstate 5, oh geez. Interstate 5 is not an exciting drive. If you've driven up there, it's straight as a beam of light for six hours so, it's the kind of road about an hour in, you go, &quot;A turn.&quot; (audience laughing) That's the highlight of the trip pretty much. (audience laughing) Well, the posted speed limit is 70 miles an hour. What does that mean when the sign says 70, folks? 80, 85, right? It's like tipping, add 15%, you know? I mean, you just got to get up that road as fast as you think you can get away with. Don't even know why. It's an urge you can't stop. It's like you're a salmon. (audience laughing) I've gotta speed, I've gotta spawn, I don't know why and this analogy runs further because think about it, we're all speeding, so, it's this river of speeding, spawning salmon that Smokey the Bear-- the police can reach you at any time, grab somebody, and give him a ticket. (audience laughing) Well, don't you feel that way when you see someone pulled over? It's like, oh, they didn't make it. Sorry. Gotta keep living. Let's go. They can't catch us all. Let's go. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Yeah, I'm going to go camping. I'm not a good camper. I tend to over pack, office equipment. (audience laughing) Well, I'd rather have a three hole punch and not want it. (audience laughing) Then want it not and have it. That's the kind of person I am. By the way, never open the back of a three hole punch in a windy campsite. (audience laughing) I would have been there forever picking up those little white circles had not a herd of wild Roomba appeared from the East. All right, that's my show. Thank you very much. Enjoy the rest of your evening. (audience cheers)