Hey smart people, Joe here. So there's this famous experiment on lying. A behavioral economist named Dan Ariely gave You're supposed to find the 2 numbers that Pretty much everyone can solve these, if they're But in the experiment you're only given And, you'd get a dollar for each one you When the 5 minutes are up, you'd stop and Then put your paper in a shredder. Tell the tester how many you got right, and Except the papers weren't really shredded. So researchers could tell who lied. Around 7 in 10 people cheat in this scenario. On average people said they solved 6 problems, What's interesting is people didn't lie They made a calculated lie. Big enough to get some extra moolah, but not These were normal people, just like you and Just about everyone is willing to tell a little If you think we can separate people into those that lying is abnormal and unacceptable, well Everyone lies Like you're on the internet. You know people lie all the time. But take an honest look at yourself. Have you lied today? Ever say "I know, we should totally catch "Oh yeah, script's almost done, got like &quot;Oh weird, must have gone to my spam folder&quot; Every day!&quot; What's your dating profile say? Drive a little faster than the speed limit? Last time someone asked you how you're doing &quot;Oh great!&quot; And these are just little lies. The world is full of larger lies, and more Lies that can do real harm. Most of us consider ourselves pretty good, So why do we do this? I mean, if we're supposed to be the most complex organism that we know of in the universe, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? Well, lucky for you, I have all the answers! Ok, that's a lie. But you're gonna learn a lot. This is why we lie. [MUSIC] Lie, deception, cheat, falsehood, untruth, fabrication, hoax, forgery, exaggeration, fake. [BLEEP] So what is a lie? Definitions are a good place to start. It's "someone acting to create a false Even if that victim is themselves. Yeah, you can lie to yourself, and we all Which is pretty wild... that means one part from another part of our brain on a regular There are a lot of different kinds of lies: But we can also lie by avoiding the truth direction Lies can be actions that we take These are all lies. Everyone does this. Everyone lies. And it's not our fault. At least, sort of. If you've been watching this channel for Nothing in biology makes sense except in the And that's absolutely true. Everything that we are, everything that we And in general, traits--even psychological And that's kind of a dark thought to consider: So useful that not only did nature keep it So how often do people lie? Studies on college students show they lie friend; half the time with acquaintances; Lied to romantic partners in a third of conversations. They even lied to their moms in half their Sorry mom. Lying and deception is not limited to humans, Living things exchange all kinds of signals Sounds, colors and patterns; movements and And they can deceive with all of them. Viruses are lying to your immune system--molecular Parasites that control the minds of their Flowers that look like female bees, to trick Camouflage? That's just lying with your body. Or the beetle that covers itself in the chemical it off to the nursery, where it eats their murdering fake baby. All lies! These are just a handful. Lying is everywhere in nature. But no other animal is capable of such a broad Because we can verbalize... "verbal lies"... We can speak our deception. The average human adult can speak something far more loquaciously. That was kind of a humblebrag. Which might be another form of lying! These words can be combined in countless ways new ones. No one knows when our species first developed our lying skills exploded when we developed And thanks to language, unlike most other at our own species, at each other. How do we rationalize this, how do we make Think about this for a second: What do we with other people? Maybe to just be pleasant, maybe we want our of ourselves, or maybe we want to make others people, push them to do something we want by wanting people to believe we have the answers Can we cut that last one? We all have motivations like these. And we can act on these motivations truthfully, Most of the lies we tell are everyday white And these generally fall into 5 categories: Lies about our feelings and opinions. &quot;I love that shirt! It's your color.&quot; Their plans or whereabouts; A lot. " Our knowledge, achievements, or even our failings; Explaining our actions or behaviors; The rotator splint or something&quot; Or personal facts or possessions; money&quot; These aren't Earth-shattering things, but How do we rationalize lying about stuff like When people lie, they often justify it (consciously protecting the target of the lie and also Thinking that both they and the target would lie. In this way, lying is a form of prosocial "Self-centered lies" are lies told to the liar from embarrassment, or disapproval, personal gain. &quot;What kinda watch is that?&quot; &quot;It's a Rolex. You can't look at it&quot; "Other-oriented lies" are kinda the opposite. They're also told for psychological protection, the liar. Trying to spare other people from embarrassment, feelings hurt. &quot;Aww your baby is so cute!&quot; Maybe unsurprisingly, people are more likely others. And people are more likely to tell self-serving tell more protective "other-oriented" But from the liar's point of view, both Like, in your head, you're being nice by Most lying isn't to manipulate and exploit No. Most common lies are to boost self-esteem, people to like us more. According to psychologists, being honest all strengthening social bonds. Which is... a lot to unpack. Bring that up in your next therapy session People do tell more serious lies, of course. Lies that have the potential to seriously parts of their identity, or that put others And whereas people are less likely to tell are closest to, they are more likely to tell to. Which is messed up. But that's because those little lies you'd embarrassment or conflict, sharing those truths those relationships. You might tell a casual work friend that you knock joke, and then go tell your partner Who's there? Hurt feelings. And you and your partner strengthen your bond So psychologically, it's to our advantage value. BUT... because we value the people we're so much to us, it actually makes it more likely lies, because there's a lot more to lose. It's easy to think of lying as absolutely as a moral issue all on its own. But it isn't an issue that exists all on Like, we care about honesty, but we also care that are painful or uncomfortable. We have to weigh all of these goals at the always win over those other concerns. Maybe acknowledging that we care about other to people who depend on us, or that people's their actual actions &quot;Aw that is a really great picture! I'm gonna hang that up in my office, I totally I mean... maybe acknowledging those things It's great when love and honesty coincide, are complicated! And being constantly uncomfortable in that keeps us working hard to make our relationships Besides these prosocial behaviors, there's and they don't do any of this consciously is socially acceptable in that moment. Ok, so you remember that experiment with the They did it again. Except this time someone stands up after like all of them" . Obviously lying. If you think that super-liar is not like you, they aren't in your "in group"? It'll actually make you act more honest. You don't want to be like them. But if a person like you, for whatever reason lies and gets away with it? It increases the chance that you will lie Because that person sends a signal: Lying The key to making a lie work, even if you're lot--is the person you're lying to can't Luckily for liars (which all of us are), we Even professionals--interrogators, lawyers, Lousy at lie-spotting. And that's because we have a bias to believe true. Our default assumption is that we aren't Even though we obviously get lied to ALL the Why do we err on the side of assuming something's At this point it's useful to take a look Like all the way back. The human brain took the form it has today We live a very different life than those ancestors, and most of the same software as stone age Human brains did not evolve to be the greatest they only did what they had to do to survive. And surviving a hundred thousand years ago Imagine you hear a predator sound in the grass. Even if it's the wind 99 times out of 100, it's not a predator: You could die. But there's a low punishment, and high reward! You might be wrong, but you're alive because think you heard was true. The humans who didn't assume that got eaten, warts and all! But we are carrying that stone age mind through And some people aren't sure that old-school I am probably not the only one wondering if I mean, we're on the internet right now, Researchers did that math problem/money experiment You do your math problems, timer goes off, Only this time, first you get tokens. Then you take those tokens somewhere else This bit of distance, separation between the and getting the reward from, it made people And this is kind of scary. We're more distant from each other these It's easier to lie when you don't have So is it just gonna get worse, until no one I actually don't think so, because luckily Primate researcher Frans de Waal once trained get some cucumber. But if one monkey witnessed another monkey would throw food, and I dunno, probably throw The monkey that got lied to refused to cooperate So other animals agree, getting lied to or And this is probably why social animals have Because if you lie and deceive too often, won't cooperate with you, and you have less But even if nature keeps lying from totally Seems pretty hopeless, eh? I mean, I'm a scientist, I'm in the truth Are we just doomed to lie, and be lied to? Maybe not. Scientists did that experiment one more time, but before they started, they made the test And those people lied less. Just by saying they weren't going to lie. Because instead of letting your unconscious and cheating that leads to, your conscious you to lie less often. Maybe that's all morals are. Using our conscious mind, this amazingly powerful us into the footsteps and minds of others using this tool to control our actions instead the one that is willing to lie so much. I kind of love that we can succeed in that, can do: by telling ourselves a story: "I and maybe we can all lie less." I hope that's true, anyway. Stay curious