An ambitious young businessman, Warren Buffett, empire. He's set his sight on a struggling apart and sell its assets. Sanborn Maps provides minute-by-minute maps to insurance companies. Before the event of GPS, accurate real-time very valuable for insurance companies. They to come up with better insurance policies. But as the industry gets consolidated, Sanborn's price well below its book value. To Buffett, this is an opportunity to make the company owns a portfolio of assets that, share. But there's just one problem - to convince will have to gain a board seat. To do that, precisely where to raise money! [Music] Because Buffett thought this investment was board - his aunt, his mother, his father... Buffett has one purpose - to have enough money later, he's successfully elected as a board Buffett immediately calls for a board meeting a portfolio to unlock value. But to his surprise, they reject Buffett's Buffett discovered that none of these board bunch of freeloaders, using company resources Warren Buffett has no interest in standing members into submission. [Music] Buffett was taught by his mentor Ben Graham investment. But Buffett goes against that advice and immediately of the company, Buffett returns to the board follow his plan, he will fire them all. Afraid for their own benefits, the board members the young investor from Omaha walks away with He will go on to dominate the investment industry a mark on finance. He's nicknamed - The Oracle [Applause] Warren Buffett is born into an affluent family. store. His father makes a comfortable living But when Buffett turns 2, all of that prosperity the Great Depression. It's hard for us to imagine the suffering of being out of control, the loss of control brought on to so many families. Losing all of his fortunes during the crash, But he quickly figures out a way to turn the He realizes that since people have lost their start selling safe stocks, ones that will Howard Buffett quickly earns reputation as protect their assets. His honest and principled young Warren Buffett. The best gift I was ever given was to have all ways he was teaching me. Never taught He had unlimited confidence in me, even when long long way. To Warren Buffett his father is his hero. he can never get any love from his mother. Well I think we were terrified of her! When hear her voice. I could tell by her voice, Warren Buffett's mother has a family history to insane asylums. My mother would have terrific headaches and was having the headaches and she would she in public. Even when Warren was a young boy Leila Buffett sister. If you have a parent who's constantly making you, constantly comparing you with other kids hard for a child to hear, especially from supposed to be your your primary caretakers. your beliefs about your world and yourself. His mother's constant verbal assault makes with other people. He develops the habit of Buffett as young boy really enjoyed sorting gave him a sense of order and predictability. But as Buffett enters his teenage years, his In the nation, the only permanent way to prosperity Howard LH Buffett, Republican member of the Howard Buffett is elected as a congressman DC. The young Warren Buffett certainly finds himself to the life in the country's capital. With Howard being consumed by the duty of to terrorize him and his sister, the teenage Te started skipping schools and hanging out golf balls and was involved in practical pranks Warren Buffett's rebellious behavior continues He' tellsl his son - you can do better than means more to him than anyone else in the devastated. H e vows to change his ways and [Music] Buffett is introduced to Sidney Weinberg, The meeting left a huge impression on the kind of archetype that he wanted to become. The young man is determined to become rich He made a lot of money from delivering newspapers was able to convince the local barber shop Buffett excels at calculating odds. He realizes horse betting. By the time Buffett graduates through his many ventures, the equivalent [Music] While initially planning to skip College, his higher education. Since he graduated top School of Business. While most students attend Wharton to become Buffett has only one purpose - to become a He's delighted to learn that a co-author of The book is called Security Analysis and the A year went by, and and I got very good grades as I as I went along in school and but I I But his attitude changes when David Dodd introduces Buffett's life forever! Benjamin Graham is a professor at Columbia to be known as &quot;Value Investing.&quot; After witnessing the calamity caused by irrational re-thought a better investment strategy, one much risk. And everybody on Wall Street is so smart that And whatever they know is already reflected consequently what happens in the future represents Buffett has been admirer of Graham long before potential in Warren Buffett. There are half a dozen that had a tremendous me enormously in terms of giving my me the I wouldn't be remotely where I am without After graduating college Buffett enrolls in begins working for the investment firm that Buffett is hired as a stock analyst. His job &quot;Cigar Butts.&quot; Cigar Butt approach to investing which is company but it sells so cheap that you think And and uh we used to pick up a lot of soggy By working at Graham-Newman, Buffett hones job allows him to search for investment ideas at $19k or about $200k in today's money. And [Music] Rockwood is a chocolate maker in Brooklyn, price of cocoa beans, the company struggles discover that the company has a large storage profit. There's a problem though. If the company sells the cocoa beans at the tax bill, which will eat away a lot of the The opportunity is too good to miss! Still Graham finds a deal partner who comes up with JayPritzker is an investor with a savvy knowledge older than Buffett, Pritzker is looking to To avoid paying taxes, he realizes he could of Rockwood, in exchange for their stocks. to build up a controlling interest. And he of two dollars more than the market value. arbitrage opportunity. He could buy the stock of Rockwood at $34 a share's worth of cocoa beans. He then would any price fluctuations of cocoa beans, which at no risk! Ben Graham may have found a way to make a is planning something even bigger! [Music] Buffett realizes that if Jay Pritzker is willing stocks from Rockwell's shareholders, he must own! Contrary to Graham's strategy, Buffett puts company's shares, betting everything on a If Pritzker is wrong, Buffett risks losing especially from his mentor Ben Graham. From the ruins of the Great Depression and economy is bouncing back even stronger. As being made everywhere, and the finance industry Buffett is an ambitious young investor from by 30. While working for the legendary investor Ben to make his first killing. Putting down the is betting everything on the chocolate manufacturer! Rockwood's stock eventually shoots up from nets over $13,000 of pure profit, the equivalent Warren Buffett is a follower of Ben Graham of value investing so well that sometimes Impressed by his protege's performance, Graham Buffett is content with his wealth and status, company in no time. But everything is about to change! Just when Buffett is ready to be made partner, his partnership. Ben Graham lost interest in investing because life. On top of that, he wanted to spend more arts. To Buffett, this event is a reminder of how own career. With his credential, he could but Buffett decides to do the unthinkable. At the age of 26, Buffett leaves New York his own shop. Months after I came back, some members of money and I said well I'm not going back in would like to join me in a partnership, I of months after coming back, I set up the With the help of Graham, Buffett is introduced money to his new investment partnerships. With enough funding for his new company, all [Music] Buffett knows to make above average Returns other investors don't have. At that period of time, Buffett loved the away from the stock exchange, often at a very are scams. But Warren Buffett believes there are potential diligent search, one company catches his attention. National American is an insurance company it started off as a fraud, but after years it has turned itself into a legitimate company. Many of the stockholders are farmers and they their shares are still worthless. But Buffett estimates the stock for the company is where to find those farmers. So Warren Buffett and his crew go visit those their hands, sometimes at a 70% discount from are just happy that their stocks are finally By going places his counterparts aren't willing generates him handsome profits, and he applies more obscure companies, generating 100% annual By 1962, Buffett partnership grows to have what Graham-Newman could ever be. At the age of 32, Warren Buffett is on the what he doesn't know, is that his next investment Buffett's early success is largely due to others don't have, such as the pink sheets. In 2022 we have an explosion of information, are unable to find any real value anymore. But there's one company that is solving that of investment bankers and scholars, was designed in this noisy world we live in. Their free newsletter is packed with crisp analysis to make you a more well-rounded investor. Just recently, they published a piece on Warren widely different investing strategies they morning brief followed by more detailed stories becoming something I read every morning! Join Street professionals who trust the Daily Upside! Sign up using the link in the description! anytime if you don't like it. [Music] Applying the same investment strategy, Buffett ones only he can unlock the value. And soon, Dempster Mill manufacturing is a family-run systems in Beatrice Nebraska, a small town Buffett discovers that the company has an performs poorly. The company was traded at $18 a share at a of, nowadays. So Buffett kept on buying and could liquidate the company to make a profit. Buffett purchases enough shares to have a to realize just how incompetent the company's The managers of Dempster Mill did not understand and making more windmills when there was no It caused the company to accumulate a lot Unable to pay off their debt, banks are ready the company. [Music] To Warren Buffett, it's the worst Buffett has put 1/5 of his partnership's capital he may lose all of it and his dream of building Desperate to salvage his investment in the who has the resources and the toughness to Charlie Munger [Music] [Music] Munger is a prominent lawyer in California financial success. He bought a windmill company! A little town about running a windmill company! He bought do? Why can't you fix my windmill company? just a man for you. After assessing the situation, Munger realizes around, Munger brings on a colleague of his Mill. So one of my old colleagues from a transformer will fix your windmill company and Warren him on the spot. They fired hundreds of workers, sold off equipment enough money to pay the bank obligations, bloodshed, the company is viable again. Buffett finally get out of the mess by selling a company is about to happen! [Music] Buffett may have saved the company from bankruptcy, thousands of working-class people in the small Many take to the street to protest. The news corporate raider causes massive outrage. In the eyes of the folks at Beatrice, Buffett cares about making a quick buck for himself. Together, the people of Beatrice start a fundraising of their own money and buy Dempster Mill back The company is once again back in the hands What Buffett did to Dempster Mill is known it had a different name - Corporate Raiding. had any ill intentions and people should be Even in defeat, Warren Buffett nets two million investors, Warren Buffett seems like a maverick. repair his reputation. His next investment The 1960s is a turbulent decade for the country. pessimistic about the future. But an aspiring as ever! Warren Buffett has gained prominence around for profitability or ruthlessly liquidating a windmill company has made him rethink his with Dempster Mill, Buffett now must prioritize balance in the finance world, but he soon done. American Express is on the rise to become is a credit cards, American Express also has huge profit! it's a business of issuing warehouse receipts. commodity like oil or cocoa beans, you can and issue receipts. And then you can use them banks. But one American Express customer realizes his benefit. He's an owner of soybean oils, seawater and installs a device to trick the His scheme allows him to deceive American which he uses to borrow a large amount of He spends hundreds of millions of loans to a huge loss, until his scheme is exposed. Nnable to collect money from him, the banks hundreds of millions of dollars of losses. [Music] Its share price is cut in half as now hangs in the balance. Former partners of Anthony D'Angelis, the oil swindle were given federal prison sentences D'Angelis to defraud American Express warehousing While American Express suffers one of the sees an opportunity to invest and a chance Buffett saw American Express as a very well-run little setback. He purchases one million dollars worth of the future. But banks who lost money from the scam are Legally, American Express could take it to because they are just as much a victim as The president of the company Howard Clark but many shareholders of American Express fight it out in the court! Warren Buffett is not forced to make a stand. to pay $60 million to the banks that lost He believes that while it comes at a huge a settlement, American Express strengthens company that can be accounted on. Buffett goes on to win the argument, and American $3.5 million dollars in profit! Buffett's partnership keeps growing as he [Music] By 1965, his fund has $37 million dollars approach has made his investors and himself Charlie Munger knows it! Well, it was perfectly obvious and he made it was hard for him to leave something that scale. Buffett has made his investment success by change his ways. And now his stubborn persistence as he begins to Target another struggling [Music] To Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway looks company but full of valuable assets that can I bought the first shares of Berkshire in destined to become extinct eventually and business. Berkshire Hathaway was closing mills and as capital and then they would repurchase shares. So I bought some stock but the idea that there And we would sell the stock at a modest profit! Buffett buys enough shears that are about boss of the company Seabury Stanton takes and he invites Buffett for a meeting. During his shares at a premium and they agreed on But Seabury quickly goes back on his words to gauge Buffett's intentions. Warren Buffett is furious! If he weren't going going to now! [Music] His emotion gets the better of him as Buffett that's worth essentially nothing! [Music] Buffett keeps buying shares of Berkshire to get revenge on Seabury Stanton. Buffett now under his control! [Music] But it quickly turns into a hollow victory. Warren's successful is he's brutal in appraising and avoid them in the future. But it was an if the chairman hadn't tried to cheat him any Buffett - Berkshire Hathaway history. Buffett may have defeated his enemy, but in But he's finally ready to learn his lesson for growth. He is determined to build Berkshire has ever imagined. But he also knows he can't While Buffett has been taking on failing companies has been quietly building his own investment But the two future Titans of American Finance time to join forces! [Applause]