I was a kid, I was about 8 years old, with my grandfather it was a passion. Then once I succeeded, I realized that this is what I wanted to do in life. Look at how beautiful this pizza is! You can catch it with the cup, look here! In fact, this job pays me off a lot and I do it with passion because you work on Saturday, Sunday is sacrificed and so look at &quot;the Appetizer of the South&quot; look at the show just &quot;Da Ciccillo&quot; Turin, Italy, San Salvario area An incredible choice of pizzas Neapolitan cakes, focaccias, panuozzi, typical desserts and fried foods. The atmosphere of the place is very welcoming, exposed ancient bricks and a design with attention to the smallest details. This is the kingdom of the legendary Francesco, the Neapolitan pizza chef who owns the &quot;Ciccillo&quot;. He had the honor to host Diego Armando Maradona in the pizzeria where Francesco worked before opening &quot;Ciccillo&quot; Good evening! now let's prepare a pizza with these ingredients, pistachio mortadella and buffalo mozzarella, come with me! Let's immediately take a disk of dough, a 70% Neapolitan hydrated dough, Naples flour. Let's go and put our Campania buffalo made in Neapolitan strips. Look at the beauty here, guys, all beautiful fresh directly from Naples, a little more. Now we'll put it in the oven at 480. deg Come with me! 2 minutes and he's out! Slow and never aggressive cooking. Look! We let it dry well because this is a contemporary dough, it has more than 70% hydration and therefore there is a lot of water in the pizza, which is why it must be dried well. I was a boy, I was around 8 years old, with my grandfather it was a passion Then once I succeeded I understood that this is what I wanted to do in life and in fact this job repays me a lot and I do it with passion even if you work Saturday Sunday it is sacrificed. Look at the spectacle of our Casertana mortadella and our Campania buffalo ricotta. This is buffalo ricotta! Look at this show! How beautiful is this pizza! look at this Mama mia! It gives me a craving! And a pistachio cream soup, guys, a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil. This oil is spectacular! Et voila guys! come to us &quot;Da Ciccillo&quot; Look at that pizza! I ask Francesco: &quot;How is the dough made?&quot; Look at how hydrated it is, you can take it with the cuppino. Mother yeast then we use two types of flour, a ground type 0 flour and a double 0 soft wheat flour, both Caputo. We make a mixture with a strength of type 0 W340-350 and then we break it up with a strength TYPE 00 W240-260 with a percentage of 13 15% of proteins and it's a spectacle! It's guaranteed. He's Angelo, the Neapolitan boy who works at &quot;Ciccillo&quot;. Angelo has been working alongside Francesco for over a year who has passed on to him the passion and art of pizza. It's a great promise for the future of the Neapolitan tradition! Come Come Come and see how the pizzas swell! Look! look, there's gas inside!! Look how they swell! Slow and non-aggressive sweet cooking, we check underneath if everything is OK and put it in the usual place so it doesn't burn underneath. We're almost there, let's dry it for a moment more and go out! Angelo adds fresh basil and extra virgin olive oil. Now let's make a nice &quot;Schiantosa&quot; Pizza, look at what a spectacle we're going to put on the mozzarella, yellow cherry tomatoes from Piennolo from Vesuvius in Campania. Let's go to the oven, come with me! we impale it, we widen it a little -THE DISHES REPRESENT TYPICAL NEAPOLITAN PROVERBS AND WAYS OF SAYING- We take our pizza and let it dry well, our dough is always hydrated, always docile and never aggressive cooking, as the dough is very hydrated, we need to let it dry well because it is full of water, the dough is light and digestible. And it always has its 48 hours of leavening. Ah here you go guys come and see What a show! If this pizza could talk, it would speak Neapolitan!!! So let's go with our raw ham, our buffalo morsels and our fig jam and a drizzle of extra virgin EVO oil and let's even add a little leaf of our basil . Look at that pizza!! Only at &quot;Ciccillo&quot; guys!!! Look Look!!!! Copy but don't imitate!! Always and only from &quot;Ciccillo&quot; the Neapolitan!! &quot;Antipasto del Sud&quot; Look at that show only at &quot;Ciccillo&quot; Turin , run, hurry! only while supplies last! The clothes move! -NOW FRANCESCO PREPARES THE FAMOUS PIZZA WITH TOMATO AND BUFFALO MOZZARELLLA- We take our disc of dough and roll it out. Always with the face turned upwards as we go to pick it up. Here it is, Now let's make a nice buffalo with mozzarella, San Marzano DOP tomato. Look at the spectacle of this pummarola, you can drink this tomato. Let's arrange the buffalo on the pizza . Let's take the shovel . Come with me! Let's go to the oven! It's cooked, this pizza is magnificent! Let's add our buffalo ricotta, basil and extra virgin olive oil Mamma Mia guys what a scent!! Oh mama!! Look at this pizza, how beautifully light it is, look at the structure of this pizza, very light. Delicious! Delicious Neapolitan pizza! The flavor of the mortadella creates a perfect contrast with the pistachio cream, the sweetness of the fig jam and the buffalo ricotta. This pizza with buffalo mozzarella is also spectacular. The tomato is fresh and the buffalo mozzarella creamy. A work of art! A beautiful pizza with burrata central AND an iconic parmesan pizza. See how the dough swells An inexhaustible variety of pizzas: Pizza with mortadella and yellow tomatoes, with red Tropea onions, spicy salami, bacon and many others... The ceramic plates are produced in Italy by a famous company that has been working for over century creates dishes of extreme quality. The materials are very precious and the design is very innovative. We put morsels of mozzarella as icing on the maxi-margherita and basil