I was a blue-eyed, when I joined my family My mom made me leave I'd stand on a street corner surrounded by a few dozen relatives, with my tiny fists clutching &quot;Gays are worthy of death.&quot; This was the beginning. Our protests soon became and an international phenomenon, and as a member I became a fixture The end of my antigay picketing career and life as I knew it, came 20 years later, triggered in part by strangers on Twitter who showed me the power In my home, life was framed as an epic The good was my church and its members, and the evil was everyone else. My church's antics were such that we were constantly and that reinforced &quot;Make a difference the verse says, and so we did. From baseball games to military funerals, we trekked across the country to tell others exactly and exactly why This was the focus of our whole lives. This was the only way for me to do good And like the rest of my 10 siblings, I believed what I was taught and I pursued Westboro's agenda In 2009, that zeal brought me to Twitter. Initially, the people were just as hostile as I expected. They were the digital version I'd been seeing at protests But in the midst of that digital brawl, a strange pattern developed. Someone would arrive at my profile I would respond with a custom mix and smiley faces. They would be understandably but then a conversation would ensue. And it was civil -- full of genuine curiosity on both sides. How had the other come to such Sometimes the conversation People I'd sparred with on Twitter would come out when I protested in their city. A man named David was one such person. He ran a blog called &quot;Jewlicious,&quot; and after several months he came out to see me He brought me a Middle Eastern dessert and I brought him kosher chocolate and held a &quot;God hates Jews&quot; sign. (Laughter) There was no confusion but the line between friend and foe We'd started to see each other and it changed the way It took time, but eventually these conversations My friends on Twitter took the time and in doing so, they were able to find inconsistencies Why did we advocate when Jesus said, &quot;Let he who is How could we claim to love our neighbor while at the same time The truth is that the care shown to me was itself a contradiction. It was growing evidence that people on the other side were not These realizations were life-altering. Once I saw that we were not but flawed human beings, I couldn't pretend otherwise. I couldn't justify our actions -- especially our cruel practice and celebrating human tragedy. These shifts in my perspective contributed to a larger erosion and eventually it made it In spite of overwhelming grief and terror, In those days just after I left, the instinct to hide I wanted to hide who I knew would never people whose thoughts and opinions And I wanted to hide from the world people who had no reason at all after a lifetime of antagonism. And yet, unbelievably, they did. The world had access to my past thousands of tweets everything from local TV news but so many embraced me I wrote an apology but I also knew that an apology All I could do was try to build a new life and find a way somehow People had every reason but most of them didn't. And -- given my history, it was more than I could've hoped for -- forgiveness and the benefit of the doubt. It still amazes me. I spent my first year away from home adrift with my younger sister, who had chosen to leave with me. We walked into an abyss, but we were shocked to find in the same communities David, my &quot;Jewlicious&quot; friend from Twitter, invited us to spend time among We slept on couches in the home and their four kids -- the same rabbi that I'd protested with a sign that said, We spent long hours talking while we washed dishes and chopped vegetables for dinner. They treated us like family. They held nothing against us, and again I was astonished. That period was full of turmoil, but one part I've returned to often is a surprising realization that it was a relief and a privilege that instinctively ran through my mind I realized that now I needed to learn. I needed to listen. This has been at the front because I can't help but see so many of the same destructive impulses We celebrate tolerance and diversity and still we grow more and more divided. We want good things -- justice, equality, but the path we've chosen looks so much like the one We've broken the world into us and them, only emerging from our bunkers long enough to lob rhetorical grenades We write off half the country or racist misogynist bullies. No nuance, no complexity, no humanity. Even when someone does call for empathy the conversation nearly always devolves into a debate about And just as I learned to do, we routinely refuse to acknowledge or the merits in our opponent's. Compromise is anathema. We even target people on our own side This path has brought us cruel, and even outbreaks of violence. I remember this path. It will not take us where we want to go. What gives me hope is that The good news is that it's simple, and the bad news is that it's hard. We have to talk and listen It's hard because we often can't fathom how the other side It's hard because righteous indignation, that sense of certainty is so seductive. It's hard because it means to people who show us The impulse to respond in kind but that isn't who we want to be. We can resist. And I will always be inspired to do so apparent enemies And in the case of one particularly my husband. There was nothing special What was special was their approach. I thought about it a lot and I found four things that made real conversation possible. These four steps were small but powerful, and I do everything I can to employ them The first is don't assume bad intent. My friends on Twitter realized that even when my words I sincerely believed Assuming ill motives from truly understanding We forget that they're a human being with a lifetime of experience and we get stuck and the conversation has a very hard time But when we assume good or neutral intent, we give our minds a much stronger The second is ask questions. When we engage people asking questions between our differing points of view. That's important because if we don't understand where and because it gives them an opportunity But asking questions it signals to someone When my friends on Twitter and started asking questions, I almost automatically mirrored them. Their questions gave me room to speak, but they also gave me permission and to truly hear their responses. It fundamentally changed The third is stay calm. This takes practice and patience, but it's powerful. At Westboro, I learned not to care I thought my rightness harsh tones, raised voices, but that strategy Dialing up the volume and the snark but it tends to bring the conversation When my husband was still our discussions frequently but we always refused to escalate. Instead, he would change the subject. He would tell a joke or recommend a book or gently excuse himself We knew the discussion wasn't over, just paused for a time People often lament that digital but this is one advantage that online We have a buffer of time and space between us and the people We can use that buffer. Instead of lashing out, change the subject or walk away, and then come back to it when we're ready. And finally ... make the argument. This might seem obvious, but one side effect is that we sometimes assume that the value of our position that we shouldn't because they're so clearly right and good that if someone doesn't get it, that it's not my job to educate them. But if it were that simple, we would all see things the same way. As kind as my friends on Twitter were, if they hadn't actually it would've been so much harder for me We are all a product of our upbringing, and our beliefs reflect our experiences. We can't expect others If we want change, we have to make the case for it. My friends on Twitter didn't abandon only their scorn. They channeled their and came to me with pointed questions They approached me as a human being, and that was more transformative than two full decades I know that some might not have for extensive engagement, but as difficult as it can be, reaching out to someone we disagree with is an option that is And I sincerely believe not just for them Escalating disgust are not what we want for ourselves, or our country or our next generation. My mom said something to me when I was desperately hoping there was a way People I have loved since even before I was standing on a picket line She said, &quot;You're just a human being, my dear, sweet child.&quot; She was asking me to be humble -- not to question But to me, she was missing that we're all just human beings. That we should be guided and approach one another Each one of us and the cultures and the societies The end of this spiral of rage and blame who refuses to indulge We just have to decide Thank you. (Applause)