Hello and welcome to UnHerd. I'm heard here in Britain, we have a Rishi Sunak. The last occupant essentially forced out by the the media now seems quite Chancellor of the Exchequer and over instead. In a short speech Tuesday, he talked of a profound the talk is of austerity and and you might think you were political chaos even started. shift. The media seem to be what they consider to be a more establishment friendly leader is called globalist coup? Or is it new and difficult world? More been learned in terms of past year, or even the past feels so bewildering; where Left it's impossible to follow what's our shoulders, exhausted. Well, person that I would call on to and to try to find philosophical is John grey, one of the world's philosophers, an authority on liberalism, in particular, a magazine, and he's here in the ambitious, that we're going to first will focus on the UK, thought that have frayed into second, we'll zoom out to look perils and risks, and try to situation we really are in and about it. Welcome to UnHerd. Delightful to be back Freddie to this confusing and difficult So we have a new prime minister. mentioned there in the Sunak, comes what feels like a some quarters. People who are technocratic regimes seem to be feels a bit like revenge of the true? I think there's a lot in that. I people who thought that what into the global financial market almost the rulers of modern George Osborne, Hunt- probably, category. But I think the deeper incomprehension because the they've learned nothing. There's to before 2016. Already in 2016, from a near catastrophic adults in the room, these women, had given us. One has to of technocratic competence. The competence included, going back management melting down in 1998. debt. That was patched up but it called, quantitative easing, fragile institutions. It was a if it had gone under other banks of other countries would all started. You then had the had gruesome sideshows like 20 what the adults in the room, the people who know who are now competent administrators, this record is not at all one of near disaster, actually. But which is that the world now is much more fragile and much more even given the earlier financial We have the world economy and deflated by Xi Jiinping's zero freeze on the Chinese economy, prices of metals and all kinds have the underlying, and conflict over Taiwan where the which the whole world economy now to anyone watching it spectacles on, it feels much yet, these smarting elites, the disparaged and not admired and of status, they don't understand really believe that things can in 2016. But they can't. No, absolutely not. So you've given us a bit of a start by understanding the local the wheels falling off, because mentioned 2016, which is where began, a movement looking for a was a movement that seemed to be you've just listed and saying, sort of technocratic mindset we value, and we want something on, and then we had 2019, which moment, whichever side you're a resolution. And the Boris to a new kind of conservatism. realignment, the Red Wall. There was an answer, which could sort market-friendly but also looking prioritising things like control important to people. And it felt Party, which they have done countries, was going to sort of and turn them into something years and the wheels have just you explain that complete abject Conservatives? I think one problem was that Tories supported Brexit in 2016, which were wholly different from the people who voted for Brexit. project: it is a global Britain, market, open the British economy the world. Whereas what people Midlands, and other parts of the was some shelter from those smaller state, a state that had wanted actually, maybe not a them I think probably did, but them and more concerned with So I think there's no doubt majority of those who voted for overwhelming majority- for the thought. And that, of course, the whole Tory Brexit project, actually. Because if they'd they wanted to do, which was to free market economy, that would they didn't because one of the his success and his failure, is mixture of philosophies and he never really tried to do was to make Brexit any kind leave the EU and then carry on achieve the global Britain free do all kinds of things, which he a kind of vague rhetoric about forth. So I think the the person Boris. You've talked about two just deal with them separately this. The, so called, Global the Liz Truss, 44 day Absolutely. And in a way, I have some it because it was a rebellion of Against orthodoxy. Against orthodoxy and against technocracy that had been in the theory was, well, one way actually go back to productivity Reindustrialise. And it just failed. So do you could ever have worked? Or do sure that that was a- I think the global Britain for a variety of reasons. The have been introduced into libraries, institutions, British We would have had to really economists call regulatory rather than actually leaving the very much from it, we would have different. More like Singapore, a completely free market in some ways, but there would fundamental change in British reindustrialize, if we were to become high-wage economy. But that, that vision was actually voted for Brexit. So why would There wasn't a political There wasn't a political will in of those who say, Boris Johnson initially achieved. I think the contradictory and fragile and sooner or later. And maybe the it was, which lacked Boris's Boris's temperament was quite just thought something will turn that happens. I'll keep down. It's unpredictable. It's among others have written, intelligent ruler parrys fate, flexible. And it works for as work forever. It didn't work clearly for him No, not long enough. But again, think that the key is, he tried bruised. And he's back on the accumulating a little money. But the fact that he came back when anything, but it's also true anything. That's the Osborne, the Remainer Tories. They all actually a nostalgist's vision, themselves as the way of the down. It's not there anymore, was, the one they thought was 15, in which the whole world geopolitics would surrender to All the states that were others would see that their into the global market. attenuate. They would still be would become less important over The opposite has happened. So in face- in which the global market fractured. There are tremendous zero COVID in China, massive They may not work all that well, imposed on Russia. The global seemed to exist then and it's this global market stability fundamental problem in this technocratic project, is that in 2015, doesn't exist in 2022. no longer exists, and isn't to come will be different, is It'll be different from even have now is a very unstable any number of shocks, military economic shocks, like the shock Street- partly caused by very raising interest rates at a thousands of zombie companies all over the place. We're in a even economically, in the world hopeless nostalgia that it but their little moment in the sun. So, we dealt there with one Brexit. I just want to clean off that actually this slightly more rebellion might look like where against the buffers and shocks economy, was clearly what people said, by political scientists. looking at this, which has now leaning Left on the economy, of that. Why didn't the Tories so few populist uprisings, Trump as well as a comparator, that. There were people within maybe one of them. We had who had a very different vision. I think there are several themselves give often, which has Blob'. That's to say the old them, it's an assault on their reputations, their record of it's also a different worldview, world isn't moving towards, what History, and others have called moving on to the flat world, the assumes that this whole vision the world, which for many, they 70s, and 80s, or later on. And rationality and volleys hope and accept that, that has to be put happen. China's is not going to is not going to converge with revolution would be demanded of not capable. The dominant model which the rest of humanity is this is not just in political in social science. If you study, western style democracy? Why was never going to become one. better than it has become, which gonna be something completely very recently I remember having with people who said that China evolutionary course to becoming a series of contingent political be reversed when they no longer So the first reason, in a sense, they've got a second chance and power. They haven't got the understand that forces other largely economic view of the themselves and of human action, action- isn't realistic and they can't acquire the skills their worldview. So that that's reason I would say is that the themselves. I mean, one key could never have done it but- a counter elite of his own. In which this is what amounted, the revolutionary one- you need They'll just be efemeral, ideologues, jumping on and three days or something? There almost wasn't the intellectual competence. But also, they were under because, of course, extracting a economy, from existing economic the world. It's a big thing. involves a tremendous amount of civil servants wasn't in the had been, it's a big thing. It solved anywhere, how do you how fundamental problem of global it's not consistent with social units, the nation states, that destroys them. But there's no socialism isn't going to happen. an extremely hybrid set of in the real Singapore, not the but Singapore is a small, city So it's a very difficult thing been thought about more earlier been befogged in its thinking by Brexit, the global Brexit, maybe But this is why people get slightly conspiratorial get Nigel Farage going around globalist coup and all the rest like his choice of language, but understand because what you've establishment and a set of or put in action what people so there is a sense that even it's been like thrashing against First of all, trying to get these alternative models. And groups are now exhausted. And the energy to try. And the world itself and claim victory. Am I your tastes? Well, no, not at all. You're not Freddie. What you're describing, topology of the last few years hand, a tremendous blow to the capital of people who thought could understand these populism, was to say that these they merit any sympathy, it's misled by demagogues. But there no justice to their claims. And intelligence. I mean, I think apply to the political blowback to comprehend. It was, I mean, could go back to the start of society had stationary incomes were large areas that were being abandoned, but regarded by, progressive politicians with They're not only no longer functional, they are despicable way of life, an industrial way argue, for example, that maybe might have damaged them in some some extent. Or other reasons, that mining areas were less was part of the mix of what they neandertal, dangerous from anything else, apart from repellent and even abhorrent these liberals, these otherwise, had for their fellow a failure of understanding. devil? Where did this strange of demagoguery and mass It's a tremendous failure of repeated. But it's now actually grotesque, more comical- if you humanly unsatisfactory as a to get back to the situation movements emerged. But it's not which of course have like that- in places like Italy of government now. But it's not the fragmentation of the entire happened since then in which geopolitical and historic and forces have reemerged as was assumed that wouldn't happen away. So, they've learned The bottom line. This is why the real mood. You're quite right, the situation because these act as conspirators. They don't to do. They don't understand. going to be able to stabilise to the point at which growth can they've only got two years more delusional. Because the even war- the recessionary very, very strong. And the monetary policies with higher taxes, lower spending, easing can only exacerbate all general population. So it's not What will probably happen if from today on October the 25th Government. Almost certainly a at this at this point. Maybe not convinced, I'm not persuaded the Conservative Party will long. There could be another then Labour come in, and then are actually also committed to key element of their critique. with Hunt. And they don't seem to have which is by joining the critique fiscally irresponsible, and that the markets- To do what the Tories are now The Labour Party has also they won't be able to do Well it will be constrained by response to existing events, and markets again. I mean, if they they would be hammered again. happen then- now we're then from now, almost seems like 400 think there'll be a larger then. The failure of Labour will failure of Labour to deal with crises with a mixture of illusory, new Green Deal. from? If they do shut down production, which they regard is going to go? It's a complete Osbornist consensus and partly markets and partly having workable. I mean, by two years surely, is that the Democrats Whether or not Trump or some less narcissistic, more Such as Ron DeSantis. Such as Ron DeSantis, yep, power. They'll throw the Green will be that will be over. But case, there aren't the resources too great to do it against the So, it's actually quite we talked about the mood of the then they were never grown ups. authoritative- And more befuddled now. More befuddled and also they know the limitations. I move from Tories to a Labour anything, either- Which must be the likelihood. Which must be the likelihood. uprising of some kind. I mean, in a UK context, new parties movements, because it's sort of let them? Well, I hope what will happen is mean, it may initially have a we've learned from the last majority, even a massive with political paralysis and learned. The assumption was that unfair, might have many things an effective government, majority, but it hasn't. And it because what will happen to when the mixture of Osbornism down, is that the party will fracture. I don't necessarily but there are lots of people- Labour who are prepared to neo-technocratic ideology of it's a winning one. And it is a Conservatives have made such a It's not loved, it's tolerated. Tolerated as a vehicle to power. with Blair. He was despised, Especially if it's a fragile Party very widely but he was bringing them the repeated here is this going to be a much successful in several elections of the key formative period in development, if you like. This I'm not confident that the - that the Rishi regime will not at all confident that Labour Even, as you say, with the big The best outcome, from my point from the point of view of the have a huge majority, so that it in the electoral system. I've first-pass-the-post. I used to changes like this, the now the only way that we're a prospect of a way through intractable conjunctions that we Britain Brexit, and the almost protective and state centred, if really wanted. The only way difficulties is by breaking up having a wider variety of Do you support proportional I do. I definitely do. It's people who supported, not all supported proportional they thought a huge monolithic, been thwarted under the existing out all the things. In other kind of 1000 year long hegemony central. It's exactly the believe there is a progressive was, it's fragmenting. What believe against a society in untrammelled. If you said, well, British majority about about there is. One of the differences States, we're much less the support for the government in support for the Tories in Britain, if it was the because actually, they're too dropped so steeply, so quickly shows that we're- There's weaker attachments to And greater political maturity, is a variety of viewpoints. I viewspoints in Britain, there's around possibly immigration. There's- Just on that, in parentheses, is now trying to get going doing a lot of talk of new movements. But he was a full Liz after the Liz Truss budget that budget he could remember. So a Trussite, which makes it hard The contradictions within Brexit what was it actually that story was immigration, because for cosmetic statistical immigrants- The economy grows. The economy grows, and so on but essential vision, that less uncontrolled on unrestricted global Britain vision. And so I supposedly over, we're now down but it's supposedly over some confidentiality rules and pointed to the deeper contradiction between a global fundamentalist Brexit of the support, a small state Brexit people wanted, which did include necessarily, I think would that demands for proper necessarily racist or ideas of how to boot up the the wages of low wage groups- of pressed down by, as happened in continuous immigration. So you've made Freddie, he may try movement, but if it's one which incoherent worldview- It's not gonna get very. I don't think it will Is there anyone? Because I want beyond the UK. But the final you are excited about, or do you alternative movements out there traction? I think the whole - if we're democratic world, the world that functioning, liberal or some function. I don't see very perhaps the most successful of combines the essentially political opportunism and against big domestic problems. I think. It's not in the UK, there's There never was in Britain. the 1930s. There wasn't a single remained, actually, relatively your point, because one of the untouched, but where we've been dangerously anti-liberal Conservative Party actually was incorporate them within a included social democracy, that Toryism, which included various Party is going to melt down, process of doing now, then there Britain, of something like that this than I do, Freddie - but I or 15 years ago, realistically would be a government which more or less de facto coalition the case now, is it not? I mean, there'll be a whole far-Right or not anymore and we As in Italy where they say they let's say, is pretty clear. Thank you, John, for that tour itself in this mess. In a few two, in which John looks at the the European Union, China, to position we are in and what, if Thanks for tuning in. This was