One of the most fundamental physics facts is for all observers. But can we really be sure that or perhaps in other parts of the universe? In been used to try to explain everything So let's explore how constant this Speed is relative. Drop your smoothie on a but to me standing on the platform apparently boosted by the speed of the train. But observes the same speed--299,792,458 m/s in The invariance of the speed of light is called Lorentz invariance, and it's the Einstein realized that our measurements to the observer--they have to shift to keep This same axio m is also fundamental to interpreted as a warping of the fabric of relativity have been tested with extreme care and More to the point, the speed of light has and its invariance holds down to the That said, we scientists are supposed to remain applying both mindsets to both old and new speed of light is really invariant. For example, different parts of the universe? There are some predicts are due to the speed of light changing, Now before I start talking about what it I want to make it clear why many, and perhaps most but it's not even meaningful to think The speed of light isn't really about light. and also the maximum speed that information the rate at which one point in space assuming no impediments. So to change the speed fundamental about the universe--the We measure speed in terms of the amount whether that's miles per hour or speed of light means changing the number The problem with this is that our very definition light. We can think of the meter as the distance we can think of the second as how long it Einstein said that "time is what clocks measure", which we can interpret as meaning that it's a One of Einstein's thought experiments was photon bouncing between two mirrors, and each What happens if we slow the speed of light? The Now real clocks are made of gears or are made of various quantum oscillations bound electrons communicating virtual photons with that nucleus. This argument applies for any the rate of internal change, which determines So if slowing light also slows time, would we in which space and time are fundamentally Changing the speed of light slows time, and time. In this picture, distance, time, so on our scale there's no observable conversion factor between our arbitrary The only way for a change in the speed of both have their own fundamental units that are smallest unit of space and a smallest unit of maybe changing the speed of light would change the the quantum scale. So let's imagine that this The first real "variable speed of light" or &quot;VSL&quot; Dicke was a brilliant physicist and astronomer at least pay attention to his musings. Dicke due to the bending of spacetime, but instead due objects. Remember that light changes its direction lower--that's exactly how lenses work. So why slower in a gravitational field. And we now know It seems like a variable speed of light could No. Back in 1957 there were only a few and some of those were consistent with either But nowadays we know that spacetime itself must drag space around, and how colliding black holes with the variable speed of light interpretation. up to the latest evidence. And given that OK, so maybe a variable speed of light doesn't a part? There's one weird fact about our universe we look at the edge of the observable universe in existed before any stars or galaxies formed. or that, or that. The universe at early times density and temperature everywhere. That tells of that material had to have been in contact the same state. But the problem is, based on the just wasn't time since the Big Bang for those We've talked about this so called &quot;horizon mainstream solution of cosmic inflation. early time those distant regions were enabling them to share energy at regular light the universe underwent a period of extremely of light before slowing dramatically. This to be in thermal equilibrium so far apart that But there is another way to causal contact--and that's by having light just the early universe connected as it expanded and to the current much slower speed, distant And if this story is right, it could even decreasing ever since. It has been suggested that be accelerating away from us. Since light is and longer for their light to reach us, giving from us. That may sound good, but variable speed for why lightspeed would change in the very and dark energy. Cosmic inflation seems a little The first effort to explain the horizon problem in 1992. He proposed that the speed of light Moffat lays out some substantial theoretical to the one that separated the electromagnetic symmetry was Lorentz invariance. Moffat's theory scales--like across the galaxy--but allowed times. Another similar idea came from And yet another VSL model depends energy photons would move faster. Perhaps then bang did travel fast enough to connect as the universe cooled, those high energy Now we have absolutely never observed speed at any energy we've detected, and times of high energy gamma ray light from of lower energy light from the same kicks in at the really ridiculously These are fun ideas, but are they testable thing as more standard ideas in another way to look for changes in the speed "c" appears everywhere in our laws of physics--for which defines the strength of electromagnetism. the electron, the electric permittivity of the We've talked about this important and even about whether it may have changed over then you'd expect the fine structure constant evidence of such a change. You can see our None of this proves that the speed says it can't have varied much But the real challenge for VSL theories All VSL theories break Lorentz Invariance, for the universe to make sense. Remember the of the video? In that example you and I had and yet, we both would agree like the fact that the smoothie hits or that it hits the floor after it's The basic self consistency of the universe and Lorentz invariance. Break it and it's pretty which different observers have irreconcilable A variable speed of light also breaks or CPT symmetry of the universe, fundamentally different depending on We've discussed CPT symmetry before. This is believed to be truly fundamental, and There are ways around some of these objections. the speed of light is not exactly fundamental, dense medium like water. So what if the over time? Well, that increase in the thickness in order to slow light by the factor of And that change appears to affect all light-speed as well as gravitational waves. Regular materials out. And there are some other narrow paths of VSL theories. However you need to be pretty Currently there's no evidence that the and it may be that it's not even a meaningful understanding of the quantum nature of space and don't yet have. It's absolutely worth going back most successful theories, as long as we keep in just as well or better than the old one in all you're trying to break relativity, which has such predictive. But relativity is not the final so do let's keep questioning it. Including or we can somehow change how fast So we missed one or two comment we missed six. It's my fault - there's been and these responses actually take a lot of responses for a selection of the missed episodes. do each very fully. We'll also do them out of about turning the Sun in to a spaceship, the one and then the one about when and how terrible or Before we jump into that, I also need to model of the proton interior. We talked about from the Stanford Linear Accelerator, but Brodsky. Apologies to both Stans. THis is OK, finally to the comments, and starting comment on our episode on superfluids. be impossible to stir up a superfluid into a the spoon rather than being pushed into but the conclusion is not quite right. The the helium atoms have to move if they can't pass other atoms, so you do get a new flow which can The point of the superfluid love moving vortex is such a flow. What superfluids hate is of energy--they hate dissipative interactions and viscous motion. However, as I mentioned in emergent viscosity by creating tiny vortices each other in a way that disrupts viscous a non-perfectly smooth container wall, but Let's move on to the episode where we described orbits. SABRMatt2010 has a major problem with would just come along for the ride when a momentary imbalance in the field that could So you're absolutely right that moving with literally zero effect. Moving the Sun a the solar system and the orbits would have to find a new stable orbit not much different If the Sun keeps moving, but moves slowly compared resonance, then the Sun could be moved without the Sun too quickly then yeah, you could break the move the Sun very slowly--and I believe that's case While we're on gigantic spacecraft, let's move on from the gravitational radiation they emit that RAMAcraft aren't the only linear accelerators would the very rare head-on collision between two mention natural causes in the video. A head-on neutron star, perhaps even white dwarfs, decelerate in a straight line resulting in linear For the black hole there should be a wave ring-down as the two fell together be a really clear electromagnetic signature. And then there's the episode where we talked and when the next nearby supernova ETLee-db6cn points out that a portion of the from a supernova, depending on its location in the side of the planet would shield you from the worst for most death-by-supernova scenarios The most likely killer is due to the ozone layer side of the planet, the effect quickly There's also the fringe case when a supernova goes relatively high gas abundance, which will then with X-rays for a long time. But yeah, maybe if antipodal to a very nearby supernova, you get to And by that time I might have caught up on all the