This pre-fall collection as it represents an opportunity and with which I have been collaborating The collection was inspired by many women, a woman I have known for more than 30 years, This is beautiful, We work very closely together every season and, for a long, long time, it has been a dream I remember, this was my first show at Dior, and the first person I called was Karishma. Together we did this magnificent work. When I see it again today, When Maria Grazia and I each village has its own identity, and it's something We started Chanakya somewhere around 1982. Initially, when I started it all, I was really fascinated by the craft that these artisans were doing. We thought that the best way was to share it and to synergize This collaboration has been developing under my artistic direction, a beautiful project from this women's embroidery school. Hi, nice to meet you. Hi. What do you do in first class? We study the basics of embroidery. At the end of six months, They decide by themselves She made it immediately with two colors. Look, very nice the combination. Once you understood the stitch, Chooe your motif, chose your colors. I learned Aari work. I'm 21. This is my first time so I'm going with the flow. This is the internship area. My name is Rina, I'm learning bead weaving. I'm doing crochet. - This is... And she has to be really specific - with the measurements. Everyone has her different specialization. If they love to knit, they love to bead, It's incredible. Thank you! We've received a very good response It's a totally free education for them and they all are very enthusiastic now, These skills from the past Father to son, that is how it is working. Now we're trying to provide an alternative. Maria Grazia bringing this show here because they are able to relate now they can see a future in it now. Good morning, everybody. - Wow, the beautiful work that we did for the show! This is the bullion grid Magnificent! And the taste of the color. Wow! It's beautiful. I'm super excited about it! Bullion work is something So here, we cut the metal bullion each piece being the perfect shape We went with a silk organza that are small but reminiscent It is extremely minute and extremely detailed. It's so wonderful to be able to play a part, to be able to celebrate this culture to tell the story of craft excellence, and to tell a story of the innate wisdom We love how this phrase puts it all together. - Yes. We found this sentence in our archives. And it's really important to speak about gives us different energies. And the elephant, I love the elephant. It's really pop. And this is a mix, this is our idea We did it all together Patchwork, painting... Applique as a technique is something You'll see a lot of freedom of expression, because they would use leftover fabrics to recreate something beautiful. Magnificent! Here, we have placed a thin metal thread, and then couched it The 3D effect is very light, It started with an archive What is special about the couching technique and it's able to take on very precise forms. I'm obsessed with this. This is all done with a single thread, It's completely unusual to see I think it's really beautiful. To make it more joyful and fun, So, we did a new zari that used This technique is done and different types of metal threads It makes it a very, very poetic, fragile craft. Wow, it's incredible! We used a mix of multicolor Lurex. It's a modern twist, I think, The mirror has been used It started with the idea of the mirror So, it would reflect and ward off evil and also be able to reflect the good energies I started the collection and I asked Karishma - Yes, very Bollywood inspired. I love this color, too. It reflects the light - in a completely different way. Here, in this piece they've used to apply the thread materials. So, there are micro beads, micro sequencing, The thread is at the bottom, And it gets effortlessly appliqued The colors are as much The rani pink, the jamuni or the purple, we wanted to celebrate India has a very important tradition When she came to France, to introduce a study Here we are dedicated to decorative arts I also love this, with all the checks. And the colors, too. Krishna Riboud decided to buy these textiles in order to preserve the trace that was on the verge of disappearing. Yes, this one is amazing. And it's the tree of life. Yes, and the peacock She really sought to highlight the common point between these textile traditions and allow us to understand them. Incredible, like a cotton, I think it's so light and beautiful. The cotton is an exceptional material. It offered properties that lightness and flexibility, etc., as well as the capacity to absorb dyes well. These productions, whether Chinese silks, were highly luxurious textiles. They were exported very early on. In fact, the collection features For this show, on the production of these beautiful saris. In 1981, I was writing Because there was a disappearance it was very fascinating to meet such people It was really like learning about India The sari is visible historically in temples, Jean-Baptiste Tavernier He describes what the women were wearing. How far back can we go It's very functional. It can be worn tight like a pair of pantaloons. The sari and the wearing style and the design directory And there's a variation in which the way If we take a closer look, Indian clothes historically have inspired because in the end that, once draped on the body, So, it's a dress that anybody can wear, From my point of view, with all the references it is a garment that really resonates with me. The Dior archives feature several references to this kind of draping Hello Si, how are you? I'm fine, ma'am. So, I would like to do a print. - Can this be done ? The color and the design are an inspiration The dyed fabric is stretched The table is first covered with jute. Once the fabric is pinned, the printing will begin. They very meticulously place the block, dipping it in ink to create the print. So, this special block printing It is an impression of a lotus flower. It is a sign of prosperity, So, we worked on many forms and one that is actually very dear to me something my grandmother wore And we went on to make it in the south of India. It begins with acquiring the silk threads that are completely pure, and after the selection It was a very specific green, both colors We've partnered with Gopal - Hello Gopal, how are you? There is one gold color and one silver. Okay, so you know we'll make a design for this. What's the process for this? For this, we need to create punch cards. - Will you do these cards? We have people The design making, it's special because it has both pure gold and that is something that you can do It's actually a very, very specific, With the pick glass, we trace the designs. The designs are then uploaded Once the design is finished, Once it is sent to the machine, The cards are numbered The cards come out punched The laced ones are given to the weaver. It's pure silk, so we can only loom it if it's wet. If we don't soak it, That's how natural silk is. So, we have to discuss the colors of the dyes. I think the color has to be bright, no? It has to be a little bit bright, So, I think we should take this. Yes, we will process it. We will apply starch to it, on the bobbin. So, this will go on the warp and weft, No, no need for cards. We call this a madras check. It's made using 200 branching threads 200 gold threads, 200 beige-colored threads, Once we have 6.5 meters rolled, We then take it to Sadhasi, Yes, let's get them ready today. So, how is the processing done? Almond gum, water and rice starch. We mix all three of them together which is applied to the fabric and then cleaned off We leave them to dry for a day, That's the final processing. The story between Dior and India In 1947, Christian Dior created a dress A dress to dance. Something here, a lot more obvious. This is the "Benares" look Monsieur Dior always loved to travel. He was inspired by country names, This is a superb dress named "Grand Mogol". The all-over embroidery You can see all the braids and the richness of it. Marc Bohan was also inspired by India. For examples those looks named Here's a long blue sari dress in mousseline Marc Bohan even showcased his third collection There were 80 looks. Pretty incredible. It was in April 1962. After Monsieur Bohan, Gianfranco Ferre Here's an excerpt from the press release "Shimmers of Bengal fires, Shades of pink, wild and copper tones, complete this rainbow For me, these archive images who in the 1960's staged two shows in India, confirmed that from the outset Move your finger, I'm holding it. Here, we have to add red and green. Here it's orange, and this is beige. Maria Grazia Chiuri met Karishma 30 years ago and they came up with the idea with which we have produced All the tapestries from the past few seasons In particular the Toran A Toran is a simple piece of cloth that is outside every door but intricately hand-embroidered, to welcome people into their homes. And we thought to commemorate this very special moment and share craft communities Look, there is this design. Can you add these? It looks beautiful. - If we add beads, it might look better. It feels like a celebration, like a festival. The three women look so happy. Their hearts are filled with happiness, And they are playing with balloons. They are expressing their happiness. And the patchwork that has been created here, And especially the colors, the colors also make it beautiful. There are lots of techniques and subtleties. The stitching done here is called couching. This one here is called a ball stitching. This is a dense stitching. Here, there is see-saw or aari embroidery. Just so that it looks good. The lines are very folklike and organic, because the origin of the Toran There are Torans in the south There are Torans in the north and they create what they call garlands. There are Torans in Gujarat like the Kalash, So, we've tried to incorporate elements elements that are auspicious and celebratory. Here, I'm making an Udan, We add all the colored mirrors here These are Devi eyes which deflect evil eyes. That's why we add all the mirrors. It stops all the evil eyes from affecting us. In Calcutta, all the houses have Torans. They feature mango leaves The goddess Devi loves mango leaves. So, to make her happy we use mango leaves. Mango leaves have a beautiful scent, it makes everyone happy, it lifts spirits. They create a festive spirit and joy. I feel this one... It will look good. It will also add OK, can you please fold the green one? The Toran is made up of 1,008 patches Now look at this one. Can we fit this piece? The idea was that, even from far, a story that stands for and sharing how we create Today the Toran that will greet the guests so it's a whole philosophy that plays out As with all the shows we do abroad, so today we have around 2,000 people who have participated on the show But for the show and the set, they don't do everything here. In the meantime, were produced here in India, so wooden benches with textile cushions This show was obviously also about of the country that is hosting us. So, there are these flowerbeds, We approached craftsmen So, there's a part that is made of natural flowers and another part in order to create this pattern We kept the elephant, which is very important, And the result is this flowerbed each measuring 32 meters long. The flowers that are going to come and they're going to be converted Our process is about into beautiful color on textiles. So, we use flowers Yes, a lot of flowers were going to waste because of the Hindu tradition And that was creating a lot of pollution What we firmly believe is that And I think it's a celebration of beauty, So, when things come from that space, - Good energy. And that impacts onto the fabric. We need to do a run through. Are the musicians happy to do a run through? - We're here for it. I'm honestly really excited with Oliver who is a great cellist, Here's the top of the show. I started performing when I was nine years old. My father, I remember, he really told me, "You're going to be taking up once you decide to do this. Because this has never been done by girls." I had to keep on doing a lot of reinventing. In India we have this system and the percussion being as of least important. My thought has been that percussion that additional voice. Which is why I do a lot of rhythmic explorations. I started finding rhythm in music and discovering that joy. See, you're in India, you have a traffic jam. All that can be interpreted rhythm wise. The auto rickshaw. The people who are crossing the road. People are dancing around. People are trying to navigate their way Traffic jam. My idea has been to make music and I present my concerts to create sensitivity around gender issues and to provide that, let's grow together, provide girls' education and give them the choice to make their own path. We're backstage in Mumbai. My name is Shikin Gomez. I'm half Indian, so this really reminds me of what I would see And it's very comfortable, very colorful. Applique. No. Yeah! They cut out different materials Like, they make the shape on top of this. I like the collaboration because this is a pattern Very Indian. - I love my outfit, how it's flowing. Where I'm from, we wear silk clothes, Oh, it's all silk? - It's all silk. We don't wear, like, a full sari, So, we wear a gown and you take away and we just wrap it around and just drape it. Wow! Where do you come from? I come from a city called Hassan, My idea was to present of this way of draping and folding. So, the silhouette gets more and more elongated, while somehow remaining very sporty. Also, because I like to mix a simple shirt, with a kind of wrap skirt. This idea of a practical way of dressing. I think for both of us When you think about India, I think there's immediately a joy because of the colors that the country has, And it's also symbolic of specific traditions. So, we've chosen colors that are vivid, bright, Look how beautiful she is. Here's rani pink, The blue that celebrates the indigo root. There is a yellow which celebrates turmeric. The idea was to promote a collaboration