Before all this, you are. During the play of the changeful, and there is no effort. The idea that is to be discarded. It is not true! If it says that it takes you away, it means that That is all. Still, awareness is untouched. Mind might say, I say, What is the point of all this chattering, when you have the joy of simply being yourself? Neither doing activities, nor not doing, affects awareness-Self. Notice this. If some agitation is felt, it is coming from the mind Give it no importance. Noticing the senses, you are not the senses. Noticing thought activity, Noticing the play of time, you are not time. Noticing the changeful, Noticing the forms, you are not the forms. Noticing the mind, you are not the mind. Noticing the sound of rain, Noticing temperature, you are not temperature. Noticing tiredness, you are not tiredness. Noticing the breath, you are not the breath. Noticing noticing, you are not the noticing. Noticing resistance, you are not resistance. Noticing the world, you are not the world. All these appear and disappear in the infinite expanse of pure consciousness. You are the awareness the life force is noticed. You are the source of joy and peace, uninterrupted peace. You are the silence within silence. You are the nameless One. Before the arising you are already here, you notice. There is nothing to imagine. As long as the sense of yourself personally and is believed in, mind, in its psychological play, will continue. You are the emptiness experiencing itself You are naturally Self-aware. You are the natural You are without design, but the instrument for perceiving is design, is activity: breath activity, perception activity, and all these are naturally playing in the immensity of the stillness Now I want to read you These words come Simply allow the listening to them. Stay as you are. 'With the pincers of Truth I have plucked the thorn of many judgments. I sit inside my own splendour. Wealth or pleasure, duty or discrimination, duality or non-duality, what do they mean to me? What is yesterday? Or tomorrow? Or today? What is space or eternity? I sit inside my own radiance. What is the Self or the not-Self? What is thinking, or not thinking? What is good or evil? I sit inside my own splendour. I sit in my own radiance and I have no fear.' This is your true ... 'Waking, dreaming, sleeping, what are they to me? Or even ecstasy? What is far or near? Outside or inside? Gross or subtle? I sit inside my own splendour. Dissolving the mind, the world and all its works, life or death, what are they to me? I sit inside my own radiance. Why talk of wisdom, the three ends of life, or even oneness? Why talk of these? Now I live inside my Heart.' Lord Shiva sends these words to speak on behalf of every awakening being. When we have accepted mind will tell you, 'Work more. Study more. Look harder.' 'Try more. You are almost there.' 'Oh, you are never going to get there.' 'One day you will find the Self, but not today.' But you are the Self. Never mind the mind. There is nothing to fix or to change. You are already the Self, for a long time dreaming that Now you rest inside your own splendour. Sit inside your own radiance, your own silence, your own peace, knowing there is neither end There is nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing apart from the supreme Self. There is no room for something Those who are here, those who have passed, those who are yet to be born, are nothing but the supreme Self. Know this and be happy. You are not lost. You are not forgotten. You are not abandoned. You are the supreme consciousness Self. You have no choice, just a dream choice. In a few moments It will make no difference to your inner state. If you wish to remain sitting, you may do so. If you wish to leave, you may do so. There is no need to get up because I am leaving. Simply stay as you are. Om [sound of the bell] Copyright (c) 2020 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express content.