Being the first on the wall in a siege often meant wall, climbing an exposed ladder or siege to meet a superior force of defenders upon antiquity and the Middle Ages repeatedly took against each other for the privilege, because the enemy first. In this video, we ask why to face death to be the first on the wall. In 209 BC, a Roman army under the general Scipio morning after their arrival, the Romans attempted but they failed, and Scipio recalled his men. ordering a second attack on the same day. The They had used up most of their ammunition in who were now trying to scale the city from forces from the north side of the city. This was of his best men sneak across the lagoon north of When they succeeded in opening the east gate After the battle, two men claimed to have been a centurion of the fourth legion, who had and Sextus Digitus, a marine who had fought disagreement between the two erupted into an between their units. Shortly before words came Scipio appointed three arbiters who decided that should be honored with the corona muralis. because the corona muralis, or mural crown, decorations. According to the Roman writer Aulus wall and decorated with crenelations.INF This such as the American Medal of Honor or but its impact was much greater. Whoever a princely financial reward, and could use his The corona muralis was rarely awarded, first on the wall. In ancient Rome, awards and many who made it onto the wall did archaeologist Valerie A. Maxfield, the corona status--at least until the Imperial period. if a simple marine could be decorated, then it was likely the centurions who most This was because one man couldn't conquer a their backs, shoot at the defenders, and chance of success. Of course, the legionaries as part of the team that had defeated the wall almost certainly shared his winnings with them. the wall was rewarded. The assault on the wall was siege. Anyone who made it to the city had to climb stones rained down on him, the defenders tried struck at him from above. If he still managed to of defenders trying to kill him or force him off only a single man gained a foothold, a siege that money, and lives could be ended quickly. This conquer the wall by offering a reward; days or also the case with Scipio Africanus' attack on New week before Carthage's army arrived to rescue Trebellius and Sextus Digitus was decisive for the both awarded the corona muralis in the end. soldiers were prepared to go to extreme lengths to writes, "the men dashed on in the face of wounds standing on them can restrain them from vying with the Roman soldiers were ready to give their came with it. This may seem crazy today, but it we need to understand the importance Roman society was characterized by military Political and military success were inextricably that politicians and high-ranking military people. Honor--virtus in Latin--had a very real Virtus literally means "manliness" and stands for all of which were considered masculine virtues. these virtues to win supporters and political means of recognition, and military decorations showcased these accomplishments to all. Therefore, of boost up the social and political ladder. winning the Medal of Honor, instantly gaining and becoming a prominent contender in the the entire family benefitted from the award. If even rose to a higher office as a result, this The Gens Trebellia, the family of the centurion first appeared in the history books with important men in the late Republic and Maximus was even elected consul in 55 A.D. and death was a real possibility. But the prize with the fall of the Western Roman Empire the brave fighters who first stormed the wall were modern period, when group cohesion became more courage and individual performance, were such efforts. In the times of pike and shot warfare, it and the courageous deeds of individuals