Mr. President, I have Fine. - Thank you. President on the line, sir. Hi Henry? It's the president. Are No, I'm here. Oh fine, fine... A man with direct access to He once possessed But how did he wield it? What indelible mark did he And what mark More than a decade ago, we traveled to his guesthouse near For the first time, Henry Kissinger agreed to an in-depth During difficult times US leaders have always relied especially men with experience The nation was reeling but how would it respond? Then US President George W. For years, Kissinger had come and And there he had changed The president's got to be thinking and Henry Kissinger is a He's made a career He's got a mind that works US troops attacked Iraq. The invasion into this Was a swift Once again, Bush turned to Kissinger advised: "Don't give I think you can learn The key is for president One can learn from about how to deal with and Henry Kissinger has Henry Kissinger had the hard lessons how it all began. U-S leaders Back then, the war wasn't waged in The enemy at that What led us into Vietnam the principles that had It was the theory that if you you then could build And you could stop communism. that communism was determined to In the mid 1960s, the United States Americans treated the precarious If just one piece were the next too would That was the so-called who had become engaged in Vietnam on South Vietnam - and that if we pulled out and just would be absorbed into the Soviet or They believed still in the late that there was sort of a unitary that the People's Republic were conspiring together Therefore, they really looked upon was to take place as to the national interests Henry Kissinger was no stranger to He grew up in Germany, in He was a Jewish child living I sort of took it for boys could beat us up on the street 'Juden unerwunscht.' I didn't... I can't I didn't suffer from it His father was a teacher. fled with his family The year was 1938 - In New York, Heinz became Henry. There wasn't the constant at least not at first sight. Young Kissinger soaked in his The impression was that it was than what I was People were much more The concept of dating was So that relations between the sexes than they were in the middle-class Reunion with friends from Furth. Including Ann Fleischer, who who'd also escaped Germany. So had Kissinger's Both men joined the US Army... At the Iceland Restaurant, it was shortly before we entered and we were happy to be together will endure and we will get Kissinger returned to Germany, the country where many of Now he was an His division was tasked with and tracking down I was full of hate, yes, because so many of my family I did not have the sense that I had in fact the I thought if it was wrong for the it was wrong to treat the After serving in the military, Henry Kissinger returned to He'd previously worked Now upon his return, he He'd shaken his shyness His personal American dream I was a student at Harvard, a fairly famous professor at the Center for International I think from the latter 1950s. He had written a book in 1957 called Kissinger analyzed the looming He developed a concept for the The book sparked a conversation. It was a seminal work. It enabled about nuclear strategy That didn't mean one would But it was a to our understanding of In 1968, Richard Nixon won Nixon knew of Kissinger through Kissinger did not think but he was flattered when Nixon I enthusiastically And I shall serve the president-elect The politician and the professor: Nixon had campaigned on the but at the beginning of his term, When we were still finding out the before we could do anything, the North Vietnamese started an were killed a week. And much We took this for four weeks, and we had suffered in the first month of Nixon. We suffered from a deployment More casualties than America Nixon and Kissinger's first covert where North Vietnamese Cambodia was officially a Under no circumstances could the Were they trying to be or were they trying including the reality of what was Just as now we have had a and a secretary of state and a vice president - about the There is a line We expected that Cambodia, North Vietnam, Russia Let us have a UN investigation and we are willing to pay damages To our absolute amazement, Not the Cambodians, not the not the Chinese. And that was It was not intended But it was a bombing that was And therefore, for us to volunteer might start a crisis that at least on any given He's a very, very intelligent man I don't share this, but from his if you're unscrupulous, that you of serious political purposes. That there may be, as a practical you cannot be I think Kissinger would probably would be monstrous. Because It destroys what But in the sense of being a little I don't think that bothers him. The bombing of Cambodia was There was a leak among and a reporter at the New I went to two men who One at the State Department The official at the State I have no comment. But his You could tell from his that someone had put these pieces and come out came I then went to the White House And he said, you know, And I won't start now, so At that point I realized that I Kissinger was relaxing in as he'd do more The peace and quiet was punctured found out about the The secret bombing of They were furious. They were Nixon, of course, wanted to, as usual, as you can see over the successive Kissinger did too. This was as it were, inside They were only a few months most secret moves had been revealed on the front Who was behind the leak? To track down the source, the FBI including those of What part did I'm not here to say that I enjoyed going along with wiretapping of many I think it was a mistake. Having said that, I did not hold because I did share his view I do not agree with Al Haig played a very so I think Haig was the If there was something were delivered sometimes to me in Henry's My only role was when And after an investigation of the people who had The source of the Kissinger, meanwhile, had become one of the most Even then-Secretary of State William Kissinger's National shaped the nation's He had vast amounts of In those early he was exceptionally careful and he was very difficult with And I mean by that, you know, double I don't think he was by the people who I think there was a kind of loyalty his substantive ability. But I don't think anyone particularly He was hard driving. Hard taskmaster. And he demanded pretty much perfection. And people I know had to over and over and over again In July 1969, six Nixon traveled with Kissinger to Nixon wanted to deliver on his started by his predecessors, John But as it came time to make to "an honorable end," Henry Kissinger was tasked with but none ever materialized. Nixon Instead of ending the war, they They were taken aback by the resilience The problem was they And their threshold of pain for a civilized Western nation. So the only way you can The operation Friday morning Saigon time three Nixon and Kissinger ordered This time, the The move ramped up He was continuing Both of them were working full when Nixon could get reelected. As a result, 25,000 American And hundreds of In May 1970, antiwar Tens of thousands of to protest the actions of and his security For me, it was painful These were people these were people The students were people I'd So what I did is they were assembled right in front of There were several hundred thousand that they were assembled by during the Cambodian crisis, I kept and I would send student assistance But it was... it didn't change the Nor did I expect it to. Ladies and gentlemen, the Nixon responded The 150,000 Americans that I will come home on schedule. And it will, in my opinion, serve As the Vietnam War scaled up, Three close aides resigned. Tony Lake and I and Bill Watts, who were three people who resigned did not make a public and did not call a press conference that would so irreparably damage And we thought the administration or to damage Kissinger To weaken him we Kissinger was An immigrant, a political scientist, Held at arm's length and could he have emerged Would he have even wanted that? Kissinger's boss was a complicated Like his predecessors, Nixon wanted a taping system But he wanted to He wanted to record all his An employee bugged There were six microphones up from bottom to top. That turned out to be not a when the president's discussing there are coffee cups on the desk where the president always sits There were microphones in the They were in the base of the Then they're on all And in the president's sitting he had a habit of sitting which is just a sitting room. That And later on, he had his up at Camp David - bugged. And his office across the street in I learned it... when did I learn about six weeks before the when General Haig became But the strange thing was that at when I'm in here now. there was really no choice. You could while you were So for the six weeks the that I knew about it, I'd be interested was significantly different from I would guess not. But Kissinger also had a Years later, he too and he too would lose I recommended it to him, I Unless you're going to and then bring people into the office This is the only way you can make what you committed to if you want to write you've got these things and get some sense of what One of the problems of that period that anybody who wants to prove and then make that the without explaining the context. The wiretapping also The German chancellor soothing tensions with in favor of a peaceful coexistence. Even if his recollections of that I had developed enormous admiration of Berlin. And he was a symbol of So I had very I don't remember him having any I think he thought basically, therefore one had to deal He wasn't wild about He had serious questions. I don't I'm being gentle, I think he thought was a terrible mistake Kissinger saw the German when it came to managing Willy Brandt teetered the One of my tasks at the time as defense was to erase any doubts regarding Germany's I told Henry Kissinger: You can take him at his word. And he said: I can take you at That was his mentality. He didn't say that word-for-word, I was in Washington with Willy And Brandt spoke very openly And I cautioned him that he that these rooms would And he said: I don't believe And I replied: Well I do believe it. And in the end, it was true. It was bugged. Of course it ended up And of course Henry who was a difficult man The recording of this conversation "a little bit dumb." Kissinger and that he drank. But the real tension between Willy Kissinger harbored a fearing the Germans would We were initially suspicious it could be the beginning of and lead to a new kind The Ostpolitik in Henry's view, sliced underneath what was the term we Brandt pursued something Kissinger He had to circumvent the public eye or else the backlash in the Kissinger wanted to visit China, but He'd have to go via Pakistan. The cover story was going to be that ache and had to spend time The problem is he got a real before he even got to because he couldn't have two suffer the real stomachache We got to Pakistan. In Islamabad, Kissinger as he would have It was crucial that no one that Nixon's security It was all a big ruse, in which the In the middle of the night, we packed in our hotel and were by the Pakistani and got on the president The most dramatic point was that first secret airplane because we flew by K2, the Beautiful morning, the dawn None of the world knew where We were about to meet the that we had not So you had the huge historical You had the James The China that Kissinger landed to the United States. driven by the ideological directives China under Mao Zedong And the opening to China that we needed to work with China That was Realpolitik and a in terms of Henry Months later, Nixon made Nixon going to China in one of the central tenets throughout the late 1940s, all of the And that was that make China go away by Kissinger's back-channel US officials stepped foot into the for the first time.... Henry Kissinger had nudging the nation into a The meeting with Mao Zedong had the potential to steer the He lived in a residence in the The first few times I saw him, I don't know whether he which he didn't show. He himself... but there He had a very Of course it's also and for more deaths than any So the fact that he had it's no justification or it doesn't what he did in domestic politics. But as a strategist in foreign But Kissinger had China was part of a greater plan, for him. Remove China from that we had to view as closely It broke that relationship clearly, to play the Chinese against Ahead of Nixon's May Kissinger arranged the Americans' misgivings about the Nixon wanted the But the superpowers were still tangled one the US was in danger of The summit in Moscow could not and a loser. Kissinger fought with the They had agreed to continue despite the fact we were then their supposed allies. So we had a special session in in which I was involved, just a few And Brezhnev and the others mercilessly on our terrible and how we ought to get out When this was finished, we and all the others completely offered us vodka, started They had obviously done this session to show how tough they were. He did not have the brainpower Kosygin, but he had a and I thought that he really wanted the United States, and he was willing And in some ways, as sort of a forerunner of that he had understood there was The summit where foes met face-to-face it came down to the withdrawal Who was calling the shots? Kissinger had precious little time He had understood that a would drain the Soviet Union and so he was very - by my I know there was a that they were threatening to I never believed that, and history "Cocktail diplomacy" went too far Was Henry Kissinger He believed that he had to maneuver in order to compensate for the absence And if you ask about I think it was the view that you that you would rather not if you were not in the circumstances And it doesn't go as far as but it certainly tends I don't think he was overly or the kinds of ethical principles that Nations operate The summit in Moscow did not Increasingly desperate, Nixon against the They threatened their enemy with President Nixon was becoming not only to his enemies, There was speculation whether the But Kissinger shrewdly capitalized turning it into a The madman approach to You know, Nixon had this theory that if he could project a kind that it would intimidate, frighten the Soviet Union, China, So he cultivated the image who might do something People wondered: How far would Nixon Anybody who knew that he often made That this was his way It never meant that it so it's not hard to go through which you left behind and find that he A furious Nixon spouted threats: He wanted to wipe out dikes, power Kissinger dutifully reassured him Kissinger frequently use the as a tool, sometimes sometimes almost But the line would always be, look, I I understand what but you have to understand I am sometimes I think he might this maniac back and while I might be inclined to he would not. So he used Nixon used him. Nixon deliberated deploying nuclear that Kissinger had What he said was What he was saying was the risks of war are so great, that unless you can convince your than you would normally expect, That was the correct analysis. But he did in foreign policy. I cannot The nuclear war-mongering did not Kissinger traveled to Paris - at first covertly and then The negotiations carried on for years I was directly involved in By the end of 1969, we had a basic agreement for both the North Vietnamese a kind of coalition arrangement with the Vietcong, in a kind of what we called a leopard where they controlled and the South Vietnamese We could have ended that war if it hadn't been for the When you have 550,000 troops you can't just turn this and say we don't care about the have cast their faith with us. And just technically, how to get If you think of the problems, people So we thought this systematic who we had supported and in fact I think there The Americans pictured Instead, they were dependent and Kissinger's negotiating The superpower was humiliated. to package the defeat as the honorable It was not a pleasant experience because their strategy Their strategy was to in which the demoralization of And they were The following statement is being issued At 12:30 Paris time the agreement on ending the was initialed by Dr. Henry Kissinger and Special Adviser Le Duc Tho on behalf of the Democratic The US lost the Vietnam War. But Kissinger, the diplomat, He and Le Duc Tho were Nothing that has happened to me than this award. When I shall with my old colleague in the search Le Duoc Tho declined the award, and peace had not Henry Kissinger caught word and sent the US ambassador As Kissinger and Nixon were ascending The slip-up happened amid The Republican incumbent and odds of him But his distrust of his Democratic and regard for the law. Five men broke into the campaign office They searched the rooms, installed The trail led back to officials in Henry Kissinger had nothing to what Watergate was about is an extra When I became aware of the extent I called an old associate of Nixon's, who had been adviser twice now, and said how could this happen? And he said some fool went into the The wiretapping system proving he knew of the blackmail One million dollars? Nixon said One reads these dramatic statements knew that these dramatic That you had to go back after a few And you owed it to him. To give him Kissinger and Nixon had but their methods of backroom wheeling Kissinger watched how Nixon talked his Good evening. I had no prior I neither took part in nor knew about any of the I neither authorized nor encouraged or improper campaign tactics. The facade crumbled. John Dean, the official who told At that point, the truth about the hadn't yet come to light. Everything that John Dean I knew the system so well. Then I was called shortly The equipment allowed for a lag so that no portion of a I knew how much these I knew how much the secret And now I was telling the whole I'd been on his staff I felt honored to And now I was the person who was and harm to his presidency. As the walls caved a foreign policy crisis In October 1973, Syrian and Nixon knew that the Yom Kippur war where the Russians felt he was so On the one hand, that was On the other, we saw it as an Kissinger organized an airlift to send military supplies and When Israeli forces successfully Egypt called on the If Moscow were to the Middle East conflict bringing the Americans and A crisis team met in A full-on clash between the two When we met on the night, the General Haig, who would go from our meeting I discussed this He said he wanted to know where Henry He's in lock step with you. He knew his president Nixon was not Rumors swirled about that the Watergate investigations Why the President decided to is a question that Al Haig said: You know, I'll keep you informed All eyes were now on Henry How would they counter the What I do remember and Henry came to the conclusion We sent out an order to all U.S. forces because we knew the Soviets would going out and know The United States' or DEFCON, was The world was inching Were the Americans bluffing? The Soviets got the message and did not The deterrence strategy of Kissinger, What we attempted to was to make more precise and rewards that needed to We never had the idea that we would But we did, and we always But we did believe that power in international Was he ready to No, I think he had the then he would never have to. So you have to If you don't want to use let the other side think that With the strength of the Kissinger flew to the he bounced between the capitals of While everyone around him he was still going on and one of was the constant sitting there so that I can get There were times when we traveled where you might hit two or three In the end, Kissinger managed to at least temporarily. He enjoyed some time off - under the watchful eyes of and armed guards. Kissinger had brokered and established some semblance His reputation as a great statesman And his pragmatic style of politics What Realpolitik consists of that's to your advantage, and every such agreement, the moment to the degree you're able to do You can't always do what But you have to know how to get and morals have absolutely Henry Kissinger was the architect and not everyone fit into it. One example was Salvador It all came to a head during the Watergate affair But the story began with Allende's candidacy Nixon feared Allende For Nixon, the phenomenon of because he believed because of the fact that Kennedy than he was being vice president and So he believed he was defeated Then, in 1962, he felt he was because the Cuban Missile crisis of the election so that to prevent was an article of faith with Nixon and than on any other single It was Nixon's In 1970, Allende was elected White House officials got to work Well, we didn't mind the thought He was leftist and some of the recent right out of their files have It was paid by the KGB. What was your plan Now this is an issue that one... that your viewers because there are a few issues That's why I'm asking. But to get into it to I did not have a personal plan This was one issue in which to the intelligence community, Throughout his tenure, Nixon to coordinate covert plans in foreign The same was true for Chile. Nixon of a second Castro in The intention was to find a way the he only had something like 36 his principal opponent But if you added the they were about 60 plus percent. So the by which the election could be In Santiago, the CIA urged the General Rene Schneider, While the constitution afforded him He did not want to The CIA backed one group an alternative to Allende and but they kidnapped General Schneider? Yeah, and he was killed in this. Very stupid thing that they with American approval That was not an American Therefore, they were responsible. The assassination of General Schneider And so a battle began on with Allende in South America Nixon was determined to for Chile's new president. Allende wanted to It was a struggle from afar. I think we gave some sort of assistance for this or that or just to increase the problems that There was a lot of, done by the Central And there had been some previous where that activity It wasn't in the it was actually in the Eisenhower where covert action brought prevented a Communist On occasions, it And so that was the kind of and we had special Covert actions are And while the president is the CIA is under the general control So it was his responsibility. Well, he certainly, certainly The CIA financed Chilean opposition made by Allende's socialist The result was massive unrest. From the start, Allende's adversaries The pressure on Allende mounted, They had committees that worked and considered these perhaps by the to take some action What was Henry Kissinger's role? He was a member of the committee. at that time under the But it didn't mean he This had to be agreed to by all of So he had to Not only coordinate them but be We don't know what personal because a lot of those A lot of those transcripts But we know that he was very in transmitting Nixon's orders to the And that he was very vigorous in As control slipped away a group of military leaders Fighter jets from the Chilean Air I can only urge your viewers to read And not to get into the fine points that have characterized But let me ask a more general Why was it important for the Because we had just seen missiles put in '62 and in that very month, a soviet submarine base was Because Latin in Cienfuegos in Cuba. was in near civil war conditions in previous administrations, this was President Kennedy and Johnson only they had done it more And that was the issue, as But that's as much as I so it's no sense pursuing it. Salvador Allende was found It was unclear if his death Five days later, Nixon - clearly A transcript of the conversation The president I don't think they admired him greatly has now come out that he was So this was reason Well, after all, this was a Kissinger and Nixon both bear for the death, not only but all of the That that coup was And the encouragement the green light that we gave as well as the very material was responsible for the for years to come. Yes, of After the coup and General Augusto Pinochet Thousands of citizens were arrested, Years later in 1976, Henry Kissinger Our general strategy in with a policy of engagement, we used our influence with Pinochet and to humanize his conduct. Kissinger's Realpolitik was There was a deliberate ignoring of Our only criterion for was what its foreign policy was. There was a deliberate blind eye turned And I think that often amounted Human rights was an alien One can look at it 30 years later and start second but if you read my you can say on the one On the other hand, you can that I've had with him that four-fifths put in a very polite way and So that would have to be judged, but it's not a subject I Headlines depicted Henry He rose to a pop star level of fame especially when He understood star power and used it very effectively, especially who were otherwise grey and he He always used to say power that by being powerful people They were immensely here are these hard-working They had marriages that were ten, They were considerably a And here's Henry gallivanting around going out with a beauty like Jill St. a figure of gossip. I've always believed had an inferiority complex and to be so good at everything he did No, that's not a subject assuming we enjoyed... as our relationships, it And I don't know in And it was certainly done discreetly, But you enjoyed this society. Well, if I did it I obviously must have But let's go to another subject. In the fall of 1973, Nixon secretary of state. Months later, to a smart, wealthy woman also Afterward, the reaction in the very unpleasant in many ways. It was bad enough that he must that it was on a Saturday. Kissinger departed for his honeymoon So you took everybody by How, how sudden was it really? We've planning it You were very famous for your... female acquaintances. And do you believe that and publicity campaign I couldn't possibly admit are very grateful I thank God for when he got married and I didn't have to stay there cleaning up after So I was terribly grateful It was a lull that In Washington, the Watergate As both security adviser he had more power But an old story concerning in the administration It was about the secret bombing of close associates and journalists For all their many differences, were who had become Would Kissinger survive Well we found that the so-called plumbers had worked under a That the wiretap conversations had And that this was an operation that was very much The bad stuff about him, all the particularly ugly stuff in Chile All the terrible stuff came and inspired an enormous who were looking for a villain. And he then became On one of his frequent Kissinger decided to push back. During a press conference in The press got to know a one that was more direct The implication that my reading salacious reports of the poisonous atmosphere that is now I do not believe that it is possible of the United States under these and credibility of the and if it is not cleared But Secretary of State even as President Nixon stood One day he's going to resign. Then he was, then he wasn't. And. On August 7, 1974, All the lies of the last weighing too heavily on him. But before Nixon announced he called his loyal He called me, you know, after dinner And he was all alone. He had told me and that he would so we... so he asked to what had been achieved and he And I said to him that history then his contemporaries said that it depends And when I left, he suggested It was perfectly natural. It was When Kissinger returned The president was shell-shocked. that if he were to ever it would be with But because the wiretapping system there was reportedly a highly I made sure that the tape Could you describe this? No, I never. I just... I don't. I don't know where it is You never listened to it? So what did you I never listened to it. Did you destroy it? you know, it was yes, I did destroy it. It was the end of a presidency... Nixon's departure because it meant he'd lost his most His new boss, President Gerald I had been used as I in part as an alibi for their but that safety net disappeared and in fact, I became as a survivor And it was easier to attack forward I became a normal Just a "normal" secretary of state on a "normal" state But at the end of 1975, the stakes Portugal had just ended its colonial sparking unrest. President Suharto How would the US react? While we were there, the Indonesians told us they and it's always presented as We were in opposition to stop them. We viewed it as similar But it was not a this came up unexpectedly Most of which was And again, if you read the it was about five The secret minutes revealed Indonesian President Suharto We want your understanding if we deem it necessary to We will understand and will We understand the problem you You appreciate that the use of It is important that whatever We would be able to if whatever happens after we return. of people talking about The president will be back on No sooner said than done. The first reports of the were broadcast on US television just Kissinger and Ford would have You must not do this. We You know, we will cut you off. But of course, he didn't get Throughout his career, Henry Kissinger but one defeat in particular still haunted him and the Saigon, South Vietnam, April 1975. The North Vietnamese Americans and South Vietnamese Kissinger was very conscious of the of the fact that every time the leaving an unfinished foreign it makes it more difficult To get some country to commit itself The crisis team - which included was on high alert. News out of The officials debated if the Was it better to withdraw I talked to him, and I said and we have to do something. He said, well, you'll have There were some tensions not President Ford He felt that after that the least we could do with all their imperfections, He understood why we could He obviously wished and response to Hanoi's I think Henry Kissinger would have taken action, I have no The US leadership was into an untenable situation Kissinger and Ford At one point when it I can remember talking with Henry We can't salvage it. It is best now On April 30th, 1975, the last I think Vietnam has cast a shadow Now unfortunately the same issues that arose in the context of Vietnam have been renewed There are some parallels, but they're They're substantively This is an ideological struggle that's steeped with global potential and which is far more I'm very much afraid that the for the next 25 years what the sense The limits to a world Kissinger had succeeded in The controversial diplomat led the But the failure in Vietnam held at least temporarily. If you only deal with the you're doomed to stagnation, and not opportunities and is to have objectives that are at If they go beyond the If they don't then one has not reached or one's This needs to be understood. I think that's something I've Henry Kissinger's tenure as But his decisions and doctrines and the world to this day.