- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [Upbeat music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are going to psychology and utility of play. Play is something that with children's games and indeed with being a child, much of our childhood whether or not it's organized play or spontaneous play, but as adults, we also need to play. And today I'm going to talk about what I like to refer to The Power of Play, to change our nervous system for the better, so that we can perform many activities, not just play activities, better. Play can also function as a way to explore new ways of being in different scenarios in work, in relationships, in settings of all kind, and indeed also in the In fact, we are going to explore how during the same game of play or the same forms of play has been shown to be immensely powerful for allowing people to engage in more creative thinking and dynamic thinking and and more effective workers and students and learners I'm also going to cover that learning to play properly can enhance one's ability to focus and is an active area of research for treatment of things like ADHD, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, just as a little sneak preview children who do not access enough play during certain stages of childhood are more prone to develop ADHD. The good news, is all of us regardless of or not, whether or not we had ample access to play during childhood or not, can engage and grow the neural circuits that allow for this And this can be done again We're going to talk about the protocols, the science, we will review all of that. And I promise you'll come away with a lot of knowledge, whether or not you're a parent, whether or not you're a child, whether or not you're a person of any age, you're going to have tools and knowledge that will benefit you. Before we begin, I want to share with you the results of what I think and certainly an actionable study that was just published in the This is an excellent journal Peer Reviewed, et cetera, and the finding center around what sorts of devices we and accessing information on and how that's impacting our physiology and our capacity to learn. One of the more frequent questions I get is what are all these computers, video games et cetera, doing to our brains. And finally, there's some good Peer reviewed data to look at that and to This study, first author Honma H O N M A Honma et al, is entitled &quot;Reading on a smartphone That's SIGH sigh generation brain activity and comprehension.&quot; And to just summarize what they found, they ran a study on 34 healthy individuals and had them either read or on regular printed paper or a book. And what they found is that comprehension on devices is much poorer much worse than it is when one reads on actual paper. Now some of you may Now they compared smartphones with paper. And what they found was that when they looked the normal patterns of breathing that people were engaging in did not differ between people or reading from paper. However, one particular feature And that particular physiological sighs. I've talked a lot about and on social media, we had a terrific guest, Professor, Jack Feldman from University of California Los Angeles. Who's a world expert in and its impacts on the brain and how brain controls and what you can learn from that episode. Or I'll just tell you again right now, is that every five minutes or so, whether or not we are asleep or awake, we do what's called a physiological sigh, which is a big, deep inhale, often a double inhale It goes something like this. [Inhaling] [Sighs] Now you might think, oh, but you do, unless there's something severely every five minutes or so you do one of these physiological sighs, which reopens all the little in your lungs called alveoli that bring in more oxygen big deep, double inhale. And then you are able to offload carbon dioxide through that long exhale. I've also encouraged people deliberately, not just spontaneously as a way to reduce their stress quickly. And indeed my lab works and it's been exploring this and they're quite effective in reducing our stress very fast. Reading on our smartphone, seems to suppress physiological sigh. People aren't aware that it's happening, but it's happening. Some people have talked which is the fact that while they email or while they text. And indeed many people do that. This is distinct from What's happening here is and for whatever reason, and I'll talk about what but for whatever reason, they're suppressing their sighing And as a consequence, the brain is not getting enough oxygen and is not offloading And another finding in this study, was that the prefrontal cortex, an area of the brain that's and learning becomes hyperactive in a kind All of this can be summarized by saying, if you happen to read on a device, whether or not it's a tablet, a standard computer screen of any kind, but in particular on a smart phone, regardless of how small or you want to remind yourself to engage in these physiological And it might even be better to just read the most or at least the key issues and things that you're trying to learn about the key information from paper, either books or printed out material of some other sort. What's the underlying mechanism here? Well, one of the reasons I is that it brings together and my particular which is how does our visual system and the aperture meaning the relate to our so-called autonomic function or our internal state. And basically what's happening here is as any of us bring our visual as we contract our visual window, which is exactly what happens when we're looking at a little It seems to suppress because we know that physiological sighs are controlled by a in the brain stem called discovered by Dr. Jack Feldman. And so there must be a mechanism whereby when we tighten our visual window, we somehow, and we don't but somehow suppress the in the parafacial nucleus that generate this physiological sighs. So again, you have two choices or I but two main choices to contend with this new information. One is that you remind yourself to engage in deep breathing and in particular, physiological sighs every five minutes or so, while reading anything or the other would be, again, if there's material for sake of regurgitation later, or for something particularly important, try and read that from or even better would be from Another reason I bring all that up is that it relates to a larger theme, which is that I get many, and about people's challenges with focus and much of what we're we are challenged with focus because of the hundreds of videos that we can see streaming by which probably is true. The fact that the information on the internet and on our phones is emotionally disturbing And that probably is true This study really points to of the information that we are looking at or consuming independent whether or or anything of that sort, the mere size of the window, the aperture, the screen that we are looking at is also strongly impacting and remember information. So broaden that visual window print things out, look at a book. I didn't design the system. I always say, you know, however our visual system happened to evolve. I wasn't consulted at the design phase. This is just simply how So if you want to learn things, widen that visual window and pick up a book or read on a tablet even, but try and make that tablet larger than a smartphone screen size. Before we begin our discussion I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching It is however, part of my desire and effort information about science to the general public in keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Athletic I started drinking Athletic And so I'm delighted that Athletic Greens is an all in one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. The reason I started drinking it in 2012, and the reason that I still is that with Athletic Greens, I cover all of my basic probiotic needs. It's filled with adaptogens for recovery. The probiotics are particularly important because they encourage health of the so-called gut microbiome. We're going to be talking a on this podcast in the but to make a long story short, we have a lot of bacteria that are healthy bacteria that support them like metabolic function, hormone systems. And perhaps most interestingly to me, the gut microbiome including mood cognition and so forth. The probiotics in Athletic Greens strongly support the gut microbiome and thereby the other systems of the body, including the gut brain access, which I just referred to. If you like to try Athletic Greens again, also called AG1, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They're giving away five free travel packs and a year supply of vitamin D3, K2, vitamin D3 is extremely important for many biological functions. We are told that we can get but many of us we're getting sun exposure. And many of us who are not still don't have ample So supplementing with for many many people. And K2 is important for for proper calcium balance, et cetera. So again, if you go to you can get the five free travel packs a year supply of vitamin the D3 K2, and of course your Athletic Greens. Today's episode is also ROKA makes sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime And one of the many challenges has to deal with is for instance, when you to a dimer environment, you have to adapt. You have have to be able many sunglasses and eyeglasses to occur seamlessly, ROKA sunglasses and eyeglasses allow that to occur in and in a way that makes it very seamless. You just don't notice which is wonderful. I love it 'cause I don't have and putting on my I happen to wear readers at It's also terrific as the luminance in your environment changes. So they work under low luminance, high luminance, et cetera. They're very lightweight. In fact, you can wear them they were designed by from Stanford. And so originally they were designed for the purpose of being but you can wear them anywhere. They have a great aesthetic, so you can wear them to dinner, to work, et cetera. And while a lot of performance in my opinion, make ROKA sunglasses and eyeglasses have just a terrific aesthetic that you can wear truly anywhere. If you'd like to try ROKA glasses, you can go to roka.com that's ROKA.com and enter the code Huberman to get 20% off your first order. Again, that's ROKA ROKA.com at checkout. Today's episode is also Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are second to none. I started sleeping on a Helix and it's the best sleep What's unique about Helix mattresses is that they tailor their So if you go to their website, you can take a brief two minute quiz that asks questions like, do you sleep on your stomach or your back or on your do you tend to run hot or Or maybe you don't know, and it matches you to the mattress. that's perfect for your sleep needs. I matched to the so-called Dusk mattress, D U S K, because I wanted a mattress and not too soft. And so I sleep on a Dusk mattress. You should figure out what If you're interested in you can go to helixsleep.com/huberman, take their two minute sleep quiz and the match you to And you'll get up to $200 off any of your mattress orders Again, that's $200 off The pillows are excellent. I also use Helix pillows. They have a 10 year warranty. You get to try out the mattress for up to a hundred nights, risk free. If you don't like it, take it away. But I think you'll love it. Again if interested, you can go to helixsleep.com/huberman. There can get up to $200 off and the two free pillows. Let's talk about play. Now in researching this episode, I thought that I was going to that say this brain area connects to that brain area, which controls play in animals. And there's similar areas And indeed, that's true. And we will talk about brain circuitry, but I think more what is the utility of play? You know, why do we Why do we tend to play And what in the world is play for? Some of us would be I'm sure that you know, people like this, maybe you are like this people that can walk into a room, a social setting of any kind, and they seem to already maybe even a mischievous We'll talk about mischief but they sort of look at an environment or a social setting as an opportunity for different kinds of novel interactions. Other people and I'd probably If I walk into a novel environment, I tend to be more in the what that environment is like. I'm not a particularly although around certain individuals, I might be more spontaneously playful. We are all on a continuum to playful nature. Turns out that all young animals, including humans have more playfulness and tend to engage in more spontaneous play in their earlier years than in their later years. And therein lies a very interesting portal to understanding what the utility, what the purpose of play is. First of all, I want to lay down a couple that point to the fact that Play is about much, much more and play and in particular, how we played as a child and still how we can play as adults is really how we test and expand our potential roles One of the most important, interesting and surprising that I'd like everyone to know about is that it is homeostatically regulated. Some of you are familiar Homeostasis is just this to try and remain in balance. You know, if you stay awake you tend to want to sleep If you slept for a long period of time and you're very rested, then you tend to be very And of course, I know people oh, well, if I sleep too long, then I'm groggy the next day. Of course there are exceptions, but in general, sleep and wakefulness are Thirst and water consumption If you don't drink any fluids for a while, you tend to get more thirsty, you drink fluids and your thirst tends to diminish likewise with food. Likewise, with most all Well, one of the most important discoveries of the last century, was largely the work of a No, it's not Jack it's Jaak Panksepp who really pioneered this understanding of the biology of play and relating that to in animals and humans. He's considered kind of and what a great title to have, right? If you could have a title you might as well be the, the play guy. In fact he was known and I'll but he was known as the &quot;Rat Tickler&quot; because he tickled rats. And he actually found that generate laughter in response to tickling. And in fact, they don't have the capacity something we'll also And he was called the &quot;Rat tickler,&quot; but then he discovered that engage in laughter in response to tickling and they tickle each other. And the reason you don't no you can't hear your dog laughing that isn't laughing it's something else is that most animals besides humans laugh at kind of ultrasonic Meaning the frequencies for you to hear, but with the appropriate devices, he was able with his colleagues to isolate this so-called and then turns out there's kitten laughter and there's puppy laughter. And of course there's human laughter. So Jaak Panksepp was a very interesting and pioneering person in this field. And he also discovered that play is homeostatically regulated. Meaning if animals including children are restricted from playing they will play more when in the same way that for a long period of time, you'll eat more when you Now this is important because it moves this thing that we call play from the dimension or things evolved recently, you know, that are really of human evolution, deeper into the circuitry of the brain, whereby we say the brain stem, the kind of ancient parts of the brain are going to be involved. And in fact, that's the case as we're going to learn play is generated through the connectivity of many brain areas. But one of the key brain areas is an area called PAG Periaqueductal Gray. The Periaqueductal Gray So it's pretty far back as the brain kind of transitions And it's rich with neurons So these are not the kinds of opioids that are causing the opioid crisis. These are neurons that you and I all have that release endogenous, meaning self-made or biologically made opioids. They go by names like enkephalin and things of that sort. Play evokes small amounts of They kind of dope you up a little bit, not so much as one would see if one were to take exogenous opioids. And in fact exogenous are potentially very hazardous, highly high addiction potential high overdose potential. They cause all sorts of problems. Yes there are clinical uses for them, but they're causing a but these endogenous opioids are released in children and adults anytime we engage in play. And that turns out to be a because there's something about having an abundance of released into the brain that allows other areas of the brain, like the prefrontal cortex, the area of the front that's responsible for what we call executive function. Executive function is the to assess contingencies. Like if I do this, then that happens. If I do that, then that happens. Well prefrontal cortex is often seen as a kind of rigid executive That's one way to view it, but probably a better way to view it is that the prefrontal cortex works in concert with these other And when the periaqueductal gray releases these endogenous opioids during play, the prefrontal cortex, doesn't get stupid. It actually gets smarter. It develops the ability and explore different contingencies. And we're going to talk about role play later in different contexts. And what we will find is really about exploring things in a way that feels safe enough to explore, right? This is not what happens or when we bike down the street, when we are headed to work, commuting on our bicycle we tend to be very linear and we tend to be very goal directed. We're not going to just take we're not going to be of the road and then on the sidewalk Although I can remember as a kid, I was doing some of that. I like to jump off curb And then eventually I but I graduated to skateboarding. And then I look on skateboarding. You're always kind of exploring terrain, but you know, as I got older, actually I find myself I just don't play with It's really just about getting When endogenous opioids are in our system, when we're in this mode of play, the prefrontal cortex starts seeing and exploring many more with our environment, with others and the roles that And so we're going to dissect one by one, the different aspects of play, role play, social play, individual play, imaginary they are enormous number And by the end of this episode, we are going to arrive The key feature is one that's called your personal play identity. All of us have what we call This personal play identity was laid down during development. And it is the identity that you And it is identity that you Now the great news is that is plastic throughout You can adjust your personal play identity in ways that will benefit and your overall level of happiness. We will discuss protocols But I do want to give Jaak excuse me, Jaak Panksepp, &quot;The rat tickler.&quot; And I also want to just give as we move forward in the discussion. What I'd love for everyone to do is to stop thinking about not just a sport related activity, but really as an exploration Again, it's an exploration of, if I do A, what happens? If I do B, what happens? If someone else takes on what am I going to do? And play is really where of potential outcomes, and it can be enormously enriching. And indeed as we'll talk about the true creatives, the people that building and also that just have incredibly rich, emotional and intellectual all have a strong element of play. And so today I hope to convince you of some protocols that your various roles in life, through the portal of play. So we establish that play is homeostatic, meaning we all need to do it. Many of us, including myself, haven't played that much as adults. We're all pretty busy. Number of us are stressed. We got a lot to do in life, but as children, most all of us engage in a lot of play. And in looking at the way and especially toddlers play, we can learn a lot because it reveals the fundamental rules by which the toddler brain Now, one of the key things about the baby brain is that the baby brain somehow knows that it can't do If a baby needs something, it generally will cry or make or some sort of facial expression And the caretaker, whoever This is an ancient hard wired mechanism whereby the so-called that generates stress will create this kind of maybe arriving, maybe the baby gets and the caretaker delivers some thing based on a good guess So maybe it's breast milk, maybe it's bottle milk. Maybe it's a diaper change. Maybe it's to be warmed maybe it's to be cooled maybe if the baby's in it's feeling restricted and they'll get taken out of their, their crib or their stroller, whatever it is and allowed Remember the baby doesn't It only knows the state of discomfort. And of course we don't know are thinking because they can't express But what's key to understand is the rule or the in that scenario. In that scenario, the child feels some discomfort expresses that discomfort verbally or through a facial expression or both and then some force some resolves it. And so the very young baby and indeed many children and let's confess many adults are not able to meet or of stress. And so they look to That's the first rule, the fundamental rule that we all learn when we come into life, that when in a state of discomfort to look outside our immediate biology, beyond the confines of our a sip of water for adults, right? Probably not the best but that's one that many people do. In fact engaging for The bottle milk comes from the outside. As we gain more proficiency and we can get things for ourselves. We still often bring things to resolve this what I'm calling autonomic discomfort or That's not a game, but that's a rule. As we advance from infant to toddler, we start to think more and what we own relative to And now in the world of child psychology, there's a somewhat famous poem that was written by a His name was Burton White, and he wrote a poem called &quot;The Toddlers Creed&quot; defines well, what the rules and in very young children. And it reveals to us just how narrow and limited their world view is and how self entered their world is. So &quot;The Toddlers Creed&quot; read quickly, cuz' I don't want to take up &quot;If I want it. It's mine. If I give it to you and it's mine.&quot; For anyone that's played with a toddler, you can imagine this in your mind. &quot;If I can take it away If I had a little while ago, it's mine. If we are building something together, all the pieces are mine. If it looks just like mine, it's mine. If it's mine, it will never no matter what.&quot; And of course, as we hear this sounds quite awful, right? And yet this is actually a healthy toddler would That the objects and things, and even the people in that they are actually Now of course, some people never actually of moral and social development. And there are indeed some adults that fit &quot;The Toddlers Creed.&quot; And you're welcome to If ever you think that to their self-reflection. But in all seriousness Burton White's &quot;Toddlers Creed&quot; is really grounded in this transition from And we have to have to the point where we are toddlers and we can access things in the world, but we tend to assume And then the next stage is the really key stage because is in the next is where young children start to interact with other children and there's an exchange and a possession and then a letting go of certain things, learning that not everything is yours and that the entire world is not about you is one of the key contingencies that is established during play. It's one of the key way from being very self-centered and basically unable to for very long, without some sort of eruption of crying and some sort of battle of, you know, kind of push pull over an object to things like sharing and So as we transition from forms of play that are all about the self that are all me, me, me, me, &quot;The Toddlers Creed&quot; to forms of play that involve some discomfort in assuming roles that maybe we don't want and It's really an opportunity for the brain to start to explore different how they work as individuals and as pairs and in larger groups. And to do that in a low You wouldn't want this to be worked out on the battlefield or or in some high stakes environment where the survival of the It appears that these So that rules and contingencies whether or not the group is important, whether or not individuals or followers, et cetera, that can be explored in Now there are hundreds of and hundreds of different But the key theme here is that play allows children and to explore different outcomes in a kind of low stakes environment. If you're playing a board you might get really into that game, but unless there's a lot of or you're really playing or unless your ego is swollen to reality, if you lose, you might but it's truly not the end of the world. And if you win, you might feel really good about it, but you're not really incredible. You were just incredible in for that particular moment, it doesn't really transform unless that game is of a for instance. We'll talk about sport later. So the key theme here is that play is contingency where the stakes are sufficiently low, that individuals should feel comfortable assuming different roles, even roles that they're within their outside life. And that all relates again to the release of these in this brain center periaqueductal gray and the way that it allows in a very direct way I mean, truly it allows it in a biological way to expand the number of and start thinking about, oh, well, okay. Normally I'm kind of a loner and I like to read and work and you know, hang out but you know okay, I'll play a board game or a game of tennis where I have a partner and against two other people. Okay, that's a little And in doing that, you discover certain ways in which you are in which you are less proficient, you discover that the other person actually tends to cheat a little bit or the other person is or maybe it is extremely rigid their pieces on the board, or they're crossing the line into your side of the tennis court. There are all sorts of in these rather low stake scenarios. That's the key theme here. So before I continue, I just want to point to a but in particular, the And I would put myself into this category. Again, I'm not somebody who really engages in spontaneous play. I enjoy sports. I enjoy exercise, but that is distinct from play because the sports and I take pretty seriously. They're not low stakes for me. I put actually I put a Which is I'm saying all this, I probably should put a and have a little more fun with those. And yet what I'm about to tell you is that anyone and everyone can in a bit more of this playful mindset, the playful mindset is not necessarily about smiling and jumping That's not it at all. It's not Tigger character from &quot;Winnie the Pooh&quot; necessarily. It could be, but it's really about allowing yourself to expand the number of outcomes that you're willing to entertain and to think about how you relate to those different outcomes. So what this means is putting yourself into scenarios where you might not be the top performer, right? Playing a game that you're I had this experience recently, friends that like to play cards, they like to do some low stake gambling. This is non illegal gambling ring. They play for trivial things. And I generally don't buy into the game. I generally don't play mostly because they end whatever it is that I have. But in the mode of assuming the idea would be well, if the stakes are low enough, then to play simply for because there's something to learn there about the other people in the group and about one's self and how one reacts to things like someone who's clearly trying or somebody who is clearly trying to cheat or somebody who's clearly very, very rigid about every last detail, including how the cards are There is learning in this exploration. And that is at a biological starting to entertain starting to entertain different outcomes in this low stakes way. And if you think about it, that's not something to do very often. Even if we listen to new forms of music or we go see new art or new movies, those are new experiences, but that's not us making new predictions about what's going to happen next. It's not the brain working to figure out new possibilities. And so you can immediately see how just a small increase in your willingness to put yourself into conditions where you don't understand or you're not super but you enter it because it is low stakes. And because there is information to learn about yourself and others could start to open up these And when I say open up, I don't mean that literally in your skull. What I mean is that your prefrontal cortex can work in very rigid ways. Meaning if A then B, if I go down this street turn it is fast. If I go down the other street, it's slow. If there's a traffic jam there, I'm going to go there but it's starting to explore And there are very, very to explore contingencies such that it engages neuroplasticity, the prefrontal cortex. So play is powerful at making your prefrontal more able to change in but not just during the period of play, but in all scenarios, because you get one prefrontal cortex, you don't get a prefrontal You get a prefrontal cortex So going forward, I will layer on some more but for now, if you're somebody that particularly playful consider, and maybe even engage in in some way, that is of discomfort to you with the understanding that is increasing your prefrontal cortical plasticity. Another really interesting is so-called play postures. These are seen in animals, and these are seen in humans. And for those of you that on YouTube, I'll do my For those of you that are listening, you'll just have to imagine but Jaak Panksepp and study these play postures that all animal engage in. Perhaps the most familiar one is seen in dogs and in wolves where they will lower and they'll put their and they will make eye contact with another typically dog or wolf to so-called call the play. Now, when they do this posture, it's obvious that they're They're not in an aggressive stance, because they're lowering their head. And this is universally known There's some famous videos online. You can look these up of dogs actually doing this with bears that they're confronted with and the bears, at least in these videos in exchange also lowering their head, and there you see bear Now you always have to be I would say you have to but this speaks to the this sort of the, the, what some people call the puppy bow or the play bow that dogs do turns out that humans do this as well. Although in a different form, I'm sure there are some that go into the, the down-dog play posture, but more typically when they will do a subtle or The head tilt with eyes open is considered the universal head and facial expression So when two people see one another, if they are aggressive they will assume certain facial But if they're feeling oftentimes they'll tip just a little bit and They might even raise This has been seen again Another hardwired feature is what's called soft eyes. When animals are aggressive, or when they're sad, they tend to reduce the by basically making their somewhat, by keeping their eyes together in particular for aggression, they'll bring their eyes towards what we call a vergence eye movement. Bring it towards the center that actually narrows the When people or animals they tend to open their eyelids somewhat, and they tend to purse their So it's not like stronger it's, pursing their lips. They'll open their eyes a little bit. And they'll often do Sometimes with a little bit of a smile. These are reflexive Children do this. Adults do this dogs, wolves do this. Even certain birds will do this. Most birds have eyes on but they do a sort of form And certainly in raptors, you see a softening of the eyes and indeed raptors like Hawks and Eagles they actually do have but only early in life. The other thing that we see during play, or what are called partial postures, partial postures are a of postures that would So a partial posture that we and humans that relates So things like wrestling or things like rough and tumble play, which is very common in animals Is that because there's going in animals, what will happen is they will march toward one but rather than having their hair up, which is we call piloerection, which is when the hair goes up, animals do this to make Think of about the, the cat. That's trying to look bigger or an animal that's being aggressive, in the presence of a foe, a different animal that and kill or fight in some way, even if it's to defend themselves, partial postures occur one another, but they'll keep their fur down. Humans will do this to, they will approach during play, but unless it's highly competitive play like a football game or a boxing match, they will actually shrink We have hair on our bodies, some of us more than others, and that hair is capable of piloerection. It can stand up. That's the hair standing but most of us don't have that we can actually use that So what you see with people is they tend to make their unless they are highly competitive and highly competitive play is its own distinct form of play. That we'll talk about later, such as during sport, a Super Bowl football game, I'm revealing my ignorance The Super Bowl as it's typically called is a very high stakes game, right? Salaries depend on it. Sponsorships depend on it. It's on television, reputations depend on it. So that's not really playing a game. That's playing a very high stakes game and there you're not going to You're not going to see soft At least not between the you're going to see quite the opposite. Grunting, screaming, shouldering people not blinking lowering their eyes, or rather shrinking their eyes down to be, to appear more aggressive. These kinds of things staring right through the other person, you know verbal threats et cetera. So that's not really play, even though we say they're it's very high stakes play. What I'm referring to here is when it's fairly low stakes. And we see this again So there are many, many Again, they happen spontaneously. So if someone ever looks at you and they tilt their head a little bit and they raise their eyebrows and they maybe smile a little bit, they're looking at you playfully, that's the universal human Do you want to play? There's another play expression that is considered the let's play express and postures. And this is one that's and indeed in some humans as well. And that's the eyes wide open and believe it or not tongue out, it's the, that kind of silly thing. That's I don't think that Just that kind of thing is basically what primate And indeed we are old do when they want to say, I'm definitely here to play and that's why I'm here. Okay it's it has this kind But if you watch chimpanzees or even in the so-called which tend to be the smaller monkeys, old world monkeys tend to see the world as we do, they have what we call trichromacy. They're the ones that often The new world monkeys in general I'll give Little tool based on primatology. If you see a monkey and it's or you see an ape of any kinds, very likely to be an old world primate. If you see a monkey and it's, it can very quick movements like it's doing this kind of thing, like it's like a could could be a marmoset, likely to be a new world monkey. And they don't see the world they see the world more like a dog. They don't really see reds. They see reds as orange et cetera. Okay that's not a hard and fast rule. And I'm sure the primatologists with whatever primatologists with monkey biscuits But in general, it's a good rule. If you're at the zoo and with slow deliberate gestures makes eye contact every once in a while, those tend to be the old world primates, those kind of jittery ones that look like they're really and kind of hiding there Those tend to be the Again, not a black and but that'll get you most of the way. So the whole purpose of or the tongue out thing is to limit power in deliberate ways to really take bodily expressions that could be portrayed or could be interpreted as aggressive or as threatening or as wanting to mate, or as willing wanting to do And to limit the power with in very deliberate way. So that's the putting the hair down, despite getting into a fighting stance. That's saying let's fight, but I'm not really here to fight fight. It's low stakes fighting. Like if I pin you, then I'll let you go. Or if you pin me, then And so immediately you can start to see how play starts to call into action, social dynamics in which both parties have to make some sort of agreement about how high the stakes are. Now, the failures to do this in how we develop in social groups. And this also can inform why some people really play well with others And some people seem to and can handle other people. And some people are very rigid. In fact, I have an anecdote we used to play this game. It's not a game I suggest, but we used to do what were So a friend of mine, his parents were generally So we must have been somewhere And we would set up these We would shovel them to big of the yard. And then we would just take dirt clods and we throw them at one dirt clod wars. Again, not suggesting this I'm not responsible for what happens if you do, but there were rules and the rules were, for instance, you couldn't pack rocks and you could run across to the other side and you could jump on and you could throw dirt clods in there. I guess, as the stuff that But if someone got hit in the head, generally there was an unspoken rule that you kind of stop and see whether or not they were damaged or not before you'd continue, you couldn't continue pelting them. And of course, people broke this rule. In fact I remember one kid I'm not going to name him because actually he's grown into a very actually prominent but he got hit once in the head. And then I think someone shortly thereafter, and all of a sudden he picking up rocks and sticks And so clearly that was a case in which the rules of the game but it served a very important purpose. There was, you know, the typical thing that the, there were some tears I think, as I recall from one kid or the other, there was like snot coming out of the nose and turning bright red, a kid went home. It was a mess. The parents had to say something, or maybe there was a phone call. I don't quite recall how it got resolved. But the idea is that there's an agreed upon set of rules about how high the stakes are and what we're all going to do. And this is separate from sport where there are clearly defined rules about what's out of bounds. What's in-bounds. What sorts of behaviors or a red card for instance all animals including humans are doing this low stakes and all animals including start to up the stakes. And inevitably in group play, one member of the group You see this also in puppies. So for instance, puppies with those sharp little I remember when Costello had those teeth, those things were so darn sharp and puppies will yelp when one of their littermates bites them, that Yelp actually serves a very important inhibitory function. This is well defined to tell the other one that's too tough, and this is how animals learn soft bite. Okay. If they don't get that feedback they never actually learn. What's too hard and what's soft. And so humans do this as well. Now you can look at your adult, counterparts, and indeed we should probably you know did we learn when we were younger? Do we tend to take things too seriously? Do we tend to overreact aggressively when other people are clearly engaging in, you know, playful, jabbing or sarcasm or things of that sort. So each of you will have a but the point is that play it's not just about the self. It's also about interactions It's about rule testing and low stakes contingency rule breaking also as is with the example puppies biting other puppies et cetera. And last but not least, there are different forms of play that help us establish who One of the more powerful of these is role play when children will take on different from their natural world roles in order to for instance, So someone's going to be the leader and someone's going to be the follower. Someone will be dominant. Someone will be submissive. Someone will work alone. Other people will work in a group. These kinds of role playing are again ways in which has to expand the number of operations in neuroscience we call these algorithms that it has to run in You have to take in a lot of information about your environment all the time and make predictions. But if you are suddenly well then you definitely have to make even more predictions So these are very powerful how to function. I had a sister growing fortunately, and she and her friends and doll houses in the room next door. And they take on different roles. In fact, some kids, if they play alone will start to take on the role of leader by taking on an imaginary or And, you know, my apologies to my sibling, but for a long time, she had an imaginary friend eventually that imaginary I don't know the science and what it makes them disappear or not at what stage of development, but imaginary friends are pretty common. And that's just another you know boss somebody around, if that's your thing, or to do engage in cooperative play. So we can look at this we call childhood and we can look at each stage there are all these that really are about testing out how we feel comfortable or uncomfortable, how we react good or bad, how we react with stress or with glee when others behave in certain ways. And so what I'm hoping is coming through is that play is not just about having fun. Play is about testing. It's about experimenting and it's about expanding And that's through early in development, and it's through throughout the lifespan. So at this point in the discussion, I want to take a step back, look at the biology and just a little bit. And that really define If the goal of play is to in low stakes environments and to expand the function so that we can see new possibilities and new ways of being become more effective outside or the arenas of play, I should say. Well then we should be asking, how do I know if I'm playing? How do I know if I'm playing correctly? Turns out there's an answer to that. Earlier I referred to this brain area, the periaqueductal gray endogenous opioids into and tends to relax us a bit. It actually is what leads to and head tilts and puppy postures and things of that sort, and how that opens up the or algorithms that the but there's another piece of the puzzle, which is for something to and for it to have this and engaging neuroplasticity so that we can see and engaging and thoughts et cetera. We also have to have low so called epinephrine Now the background science but for those of you that and manuscripts, perhaps the best one is a review published in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews by the very Jaak Panksepp although he has a co-author, which is Stephen Siviy, S I V I Y I'll provide a link to this And the title of this paper is; &quot;In Search of the Social Playfulness in Mammalian Brains.&quot; And it's a quite extensive review, but it basically boils down to some key findings whereby, any sorts of drugs that increase levels will tend to inhibit play and drugs and scenarios recreational drugs here, but these were experiments that were done in the laboratory setting that increase the endogenous opioid output will tend to increase playfulness. And so really the state of mind that one needs to adopt when playing is, first of all you have to whatever it happens to be and seriousness and focus and seriousness in generally means epinephrine being able to focus is largely reliant on things like adrenaline epinephrine, but also the presence of dopamine, which is a molecule that and focus in concert with epinephrine, but also that these endogenous And it's really the low that allows those endogenous What do I mean by that? Well, if you are very, very like you've put a lot of money or you're a football or you're playing a game for which, you know, defeating the other person or your team winning is Well then that's not the play circuitry. On the contrary, if you are engaging in or any other behavior in a way that you're simply there to explore, but you don't have high levels you're not stressed about Well, then that constitutes play. Now that's somewhat that you take seriously and you can be more playful about things that you don't take so seriously, but what is absolutely not obvious is that the state of playfulness is actually what allows because the state of playfulness offers you the opportunity to engage in novel types of that you would not if you are so focused So a state of playfulness not just during play, but during competitive I actually started to cultivate When I was in college, I had this kind of general practice of when I wanted to learn something. I would tell myself that information in the world and that I was very very interested in it. I would kind of lie to myself and say oh, I'm super interested in, I won't name the topics, but super interested in this And I could sort of delude on whatever it is that I was learning in ways that surprised me. However, when we are hyper focused on something and we are rigidly we can't engage in flexible thinking. So it's a great tool to be and take it very, very seriously when we're simply trying to learn things by kind of rote memory, learn things and regurgitate, learn and regurgitate of the sort that, you know, I'm frankly a But if we are trying to we sort of hit a wall or in cognitive performance, where we're not creative enough, where we're finding let's just use a sports example that, you know we only have that we can deploy or certain number of swings of the racket that we can deploy. The way to actually expand your practice is to engage in this kind the idea that, well, I'm just I'm going to explore in a way that it doesn't really matter the net, doesn't really matter if and it's counterintuitive no, the thing that we need and drill and drill. And indeed there's a place for that. But this mode of play with modest levels of endogenous opioids being plus low levels of adrenaline, right? Epinephrine low levels of are possible only when that we're not stressed. Well that combination really to explore different possibilities in ways that can truly expand Now, this has been seen again and again, also in the business sector, some of the more challenging, or I should say compare additive are very interested in hiring people that as children were so called tinkerers, and actually NASA was that many of the people in engineering at NASA, when they looked back into those people tended to be tinkerers. They were people that would in way that wasn't about or an instruction manual. Great cooks discover new forms of food. Indeed created entire genres of food by way of being tinkerers. Okay, musicians do this. I grew up playing various sports, but skateboarding was one that in for a long time. One of the greatest is some of you may recognize his name as the Great Rodney Mullen. And Rodney was kind of and continuing to evolve the sport in ways that no one could predict using skateboards and all sorts of ways that no one had thought of previously. And of course there that did that as well, but he's particularly well known for that. And his process is his own. I can't speak to it too much, but he was also known as somebody who would spend a lot of time, just kind of flipping the board and just flipping it into the air and watching the ways in which it flipped and kind of studying and expanding on his of what could happen on a skateboard by way of just playing. Now, he took it very seriously, but it's this kind of razor's edge between taking something very seriously, but also tinkering and and just seeing what well, let's just see what that mindset is extremely powerful to export from this into what we could call of one's occupation or sport, whether or not it's behind a desk or whether or not it's really for or engineering, any endeavor. And so the whole purpose is yes on the one hand to illustrate the incredible for setting up the self and relation of the self to others, indeed for setting up cultures entirely, cuz' cultures will watch sport together or they'll celebrate their team winning. I mean, World Cup, I've never been a big soccer fan, even though my dad is I mean the entire world kind of lights up and gets engaged around their country is going being another example, but play and sport are not quite the same as I've pointed out before. And for all of us who and things that we can to enrich our lives, I would say for those of on a regular basis in one form or another terrific start to expand in particular forms of play that involve new groups of individuals. So if you're somebody that typically plays one-on-one with somebody, try to expand into playing as teams. If you're somebody who only plays alone, then try to expand into playing in perhaps one-on-one first and in groups, this is the way that your brain learns and evolves and changes and gets better. And I raised this because another one of the top 10 questions I get is how can I keep my brain young? How can I continue to learn? How can I get better in school and sport in life and emotionally, cognitively, and on and on and on. And yes, there are supplements that Yes, there are brain games and apps that can support neuroplasticity. But if you really want to engage what you need to do is of practices and tools that your nervous system naturally used throughout development. And it evolved over hundreds to trigger this thing that And the reason this is it starts to move us away from I define hacks as using one to kind of get a shortcut. I don't really like the term, frankly, and I don't like it in any biological mechanism. But when we look at play, we can say, play is the portal to plastic. Play at every stage of life is the way in which we learned the rules for that stage of life. And play is the way in how we might function in So play is powerful. And we could even say that play to plasticity. The reason for that is that yes, this high opioid, low is what opens up play. But then inside of the arena of play, when the prefrontal cortex is running all these different possibilities But with some degree of focus, there are a number of other Things like Brain-derived and other growth factors that actually trigger the rewiring of brain circuits that allow for it to expand. And indeed that's what is neuroplasticity. If you're interested in those chemicals and kind of arena of things that happen when one engages in neuroplasticity, there's a vast literature out there. But one of the more popular books that I think is quite good is from my friend and who's a psychiatrist at That's R A T E Y. He wrote the book &quot;Spark&quot; a few years back, and I think it's still very relevant. And John talks about the important role that play exerts in the neuroplasticity process and points to a number that one can engage in. He also points to the new environments to not just go on the or take the same walk, but actually get into So you're starting to sense a theme here. There's novelty, exploring contingencies, keeping the stakes relatively low, et cetera, et cetera. But these really are the gates to this holy grail that Neuroplasticity as I've talked is a two step process. It involves focusing very intensely or at least focusing that one is trying to learn, and then engaging in deep rest, ideally deep sleep in And I've also talked about like naps and Yoga Nidra so-called NSDR, Non Sleep Deep Rest for enhancing or accelerating plasticity. You can check out the episodes or the episodes on How to Learn Faster. The detail all of those. We had a newsletter that lists out all the tools for neuroplasticity all that is available. Zero cost to you at You can just download that information, but John's book that They really point to this two step process where it's focus and then rest focus and then rest and play is its own unique form of focus and then rest, focus and rest. It's not the same as learning or critically trying to for sake of sport. It's really about expanding that you could learn down the line. Okay, so said once again. So I just want to make play is about establishing within which you can learn new things. It's not about learning It's not about the game It's not about the dollhouse so that they can become when they grow up. Right. The dirt Clod war that for better or for worse was not about becoming or winning the trophy for dirt clods in the neighborhood. Although we actually had a trophy for the best dirt clod team. Alas, it was not my team that year. But the point is that and establishing a broader that then can learn more Thus far I've tried to convince you through a combination of data that adopting a stance of playfulness and indeed engaging in play on a somewhat regular basis could be beneficial to you regardless of circumstances or goals. If I haven't done that already, what I'm about to tell you, hopefully will push you over the line. It turns out that when you of all animals, what you find is that animals that engage in playful behaviors for the longest period of time are also the animals that of neuroplasticity, the brain and nervous system's ability to change in response to experience, put differently, animals that only play of their entire life have very rigid brains that whereas animals that throughout their life have very plastic brains. And there's even some largely anecdotal, but there's some data starting to emerge that adults that maintain a playful stance that engage in things again that are low stakes contingency exploring important enough that people focus and that people pay attention but that they are not, you know, filled with adrenaline, you know, freaked out about the they're not super, super competitive, maybe just a little bit competitive or not competitive at all. That allows for more ongoing plasticity. And one of the people that comes to mind in thinking about this is and I should say the Great Nobel Prize Winner Professor at Caltech was involved in the Manhattan Project, but was also known for being He also is a mischievous tinker. If you read any of the books &quot;Surely You're Joking.&quot; Mr. Feynman, or &quot;What Do You these are wonderful short stories, mostly about Feynman, doing things like picking all the locks at and putting all the top secret documents out on the floor of the office so that when people they were all out there. Obviously they weren't He didn't want to threaten but playing pranks like that. And actually Caltech, I don't know if this is still the case, but Caltech where he was employed was always known for doing very technologically challenging pranks. They're not known for their sorry, Caltech, but they were known for example, disrupting the scoreboard at for instance, and things of that sort through technological required a lot of playfulness and technological pros. So if you look in science or you look in medicine what you find is the people new practices tend to be people that were tinkerers. People that are very creative, tend to be people that are unafraid of exploring things in They're not so rigidly that they have to do everything Now they might cloak so that their final works always look perfect or but they have this kind of I would venture even say that the, the street artist Banksy, for instance, obviously an incredible and preparation into their work, but there's a kind of playfulness of using two dimensional paintings in concert with three in ways that, you know I think that most there were other people artists of that sort that did that. But I think Banksy is kind of recognized as the modern, the modern rendition of that kind of playfulness that most people don't use cities using art in ways that for instance. So to go back to the example of Feynman. Feynman was somebody who learned to paint and draw quite well into his sixties. He was somewhat famous or infamous, I should say for Bongo Drumming I say infamous because he was known also for doing that naked. Something that certainly not in concert with the ethical standards and behaviors of universities today. But Feynman had this He had that playful spirit as a teenager, and he had that playful And that's one of the was that he wasn't just a rigid physicist who could explain things He always carried through and in some of his writings, he pointed to the fact was something that he worked very hard to continue to cultivate in himself because it was the way the world differently and to indeed make great discoveries in the field of physics, but also to kind of to life more generally. And so he comes to mind as a prominent example And if I could achieve besides teaching you something it would be to teach you Again, I'm, don't consider myself a by nature, but I've tried over the years to adopt this stance of exploring very focused on contingencies but keep the stakes low enough that I can have some fun doing them. And I like to think that Now, I'd like to drill into this thing that we Again neuroplasticity is the ability to change in And I should just say that the nervous system can change very quickly in response to negative experiences. We can almost all engage in where if something really to us, our nervous system will at least within a few days, such that we tend to want that led to that trauma. Now the whole business of that are traumatic to them is a whole other issue. There are books about There's the so-called from psychoanalysis that people go back into trauma to retest and gain new opportunities et cetera, et cetera. But in general, what I'm you know, you have a bad experience when you're a kid where someone holds your and then you just don't want That's one trial learning of sorts, that of course can be overcomed through proper exposure therapy or someone that you or any number of behaviors that allow you to overcome that, be that particular scenario in that same context. But across the lifespan, the learn earning of new new possibilities occurs very differently from about age zero when we're born until about age 25 and thereafter. So from about, about, I want to emphasize neuroplasticity occurs through the process that is exactly as I focus, rest, we focus very intensely. We can't do the thing. We can't do the new movement. We can't do the golf swing. We can't learn the math. We try, we try, we try, we And then all of a sudden because the rewiring actually or naps, but mostly during deep sleep. From birth till about out age 25 however, we can learn things, new things, and new contingencies, not just negative things and traumatic things through somewhat passive I will never forget the first time that we went on a family And we went to the Smithsonian. I got to see the, the old fighter planes. And I think, I think the Kitty Hawk or the first one of the Anyway, I obviously my My hippocampus is, is but I'll never forget the trip. And I'll never forget who went. And I think I was probably It's embedded somewhere in my memory. And so just through passive experience and my focusing on the about that trip, I have a recollection of that experience. I didn't have to deliberately focus. I didn't, wasn't telling myself focused, you're going to need to and you're going to be you know, in 39 years, or whenever again, I forget exactly how old I was. But the key feature here is that the developing brain is able to learn through passive experience because the neurons, the nerve are much more over-connected than they will be later in life. The way to think about this is sort of, if you use Google maps, as I do too often I think when I drive, there are a number of roads and pathways that would get you from We could imagine those as neural circuits, or we could imagine neural Early in development, are much more extensive. It it's like having a Google maps that where everything is through tiny little cross streets. And the whole thing is But then by taking particular routes of behavior of thought of emotion, certain routes become well established. And the other routes that are not taken simply disappear. Now in the biological we call that process pruning. And the simple way to envision You have many, many more as an adult. Those neurons are and approximately 40% of will disappear by the they are gone. They are actively that involve things like and literally sneak their little processes in between neurons at the synapse, which are the points of between neurons and push those apart, even eat neurons, right? There's some incredible Beth Stevens' Lab at showing that glial cells that are not functional for Now, what this tells us is during development is the but it also involves the that are going to serve certain motor functions, cognitive The process of play is largely a process of engaging pruning of neural connections and strengthening of the I'm sure that many of fire together wire together. That phrase is often to the great Donald Hebb, Did incredible work a who established a lot of the for learning and memory, but it was the also great Dr. Carla Shatz, who is now at Stanford and was at Berkeley and Harvard as well, but who is at Stanford Medical School who coined this term fire Indeed that's what happens when children play when adolescents play and when young adults play, whether or not it's social play or play with an object, whether or not it's a imaginary play imaginary friend play, there is a strengthening of and a pruning away of up to 40%, perhaps even more of connections that are not necessary for emotions, and thoughts. And what this means is that it is through the process of play, that we become who we are as adults. And as I mentioned earlier, it is through the process of play that we are able to adjust Now, there are bounds on this process, as far as I know there's of an individual who had a hyperplastic or I should say a brain that as it was in childhood. But what this tells us is that what we do in the process is really how we set up the rules for how we behave as adults which is really incredible. And of course the reassuring thing is that playing as an adult will allow you to expand You can literally grow new connections. Some of you may be saying, does it create new neurons for better or for worse? It does not seem that to your brain in adulthood. There are some papers in certain brain areas, but by and large, most of the rewiring of neural connections is the removal of certain connections. This process we're calling Pruning and the strengthening of that make those kind of Google maps roads. And the analogy I laid out before thicker and more robust think about as taking little trails and turning them into roads, Then turning those roads into highways, then putting up more and eliminating all the small that one could take. And again, this is an analogy for what is happening at the level of neuro circuitry. Now, one of the key findings that is children that have or immense amounts of stress of any kind, have a harder time both engaging in play, but also a harder time in life. The good news is this is And we'll talk about some in a moment, but this should make sense to you because earlier we talked about how a high level of adrenaline epinephrine in the brain and body actually inhibits blocks the circuits in the brain and body that And when I say that, I mean that in a very concrete way, that epinephrine and adrenaline can actually suppress that can lead to things like soft eyes or tongue out, or the head tilt, or what we called partial postures of being able to engage in, you know, a rough and tumble play, but not take that to the and damaging the other So when I say that, you know, trauma and stress by way of inhibiting play at a deeper neuro biological level. What I'm really saying is that the high levels of adrenaline that are generated from shut down the circuits that allow a child or a young adult to enter the game of play or in the game of play in the same way that who didn't have high levels of adrenaline in their system could possibly engage in. Now, the good news is that many of that are out there now, including things like EMDR Exposure Therapy, Cognitive and on and on, including some of the therapies that are more neurochemical, things like ketamine, or things like Transcranial magnetic many of those are paired that are really about the which is exploring It's about exploring different types of emotional experiences as they relate to the that created the trauma. And we did an entire and I recommend you It's easy to find again it's on YouTube, Apples, very easy to find. And there I talk all and the various kinds of trauma treatments that are out there, their efficacy in different But the point I'd like to make now is that the reason why children who and stress have limited is because the neurochemical substrates that are created from trauma and stress, because after all stress is epinephrine and Those are inseparable and the way in which it or at least inhibits suppresses those play circuits. And again the reassuring thing is that by engaging in play as adults, we can reactivate some of those circuits and reopen the plasticity. In fact one very prominent especially for people to very severe traumas, in the ongoing sense, meaning traumas that went is to get them to engage in play in things like dance in basically getting them to engage their bodily movements in ways that they would otherwise not feel comfortable to engage in. And I find this area so interesting because on the face of it, you could say, oh, that's kind of, you know, is that really biomedical treatment? You know, you're taking and having them dance. I mean, it seems kind of depending on your, you know, your particular orientation. But on the other hand, it's actually quite in the mechanisms by which So again, back to this original principle, which is that play, isn't play is the fundamental and that play and dance and exploration of novel movements, exploration of novel athletic movements are the route by which we access new ways of thinking new contingencies. And I find it wonderful and the psychiatric and are exploring things like play and dance and other forms of because indeed we would all love for there to be a magic pill by which trauma could be erased and new memories could be laid down or a device that could do that. But frankly, if you ask me whether or not that's likely in an effective way, I think the short answer that there are going to be chemicals and things that can augment but that there's not going that will suddenly That it's always going shifts in neurochemical states are going to have to be combined with new ways of thinking And I find it wonderful in reassuring that people are looking as a not just one tiny but that it might actually and a highly productive lever by which to rewire the traumatized brain. So if you're like me, okay, I'm willing to be more playful. I'm willing to explore, play as a portal to plasticity. And that all makes good sense, but what should I play? What should I do? Well, we've already established your adrenaline low. You have to keep the stakes slow enough that you're not going to get Now, for some people who that's going to be challenging. And yet I don't want to make it seem as if you can't be There are many forms of competitive play that because you are a competitive person, allow you to drive great joy I have a friend who's I'm not particularly good at horseshoes, but whenever we play horseshoes, I can tell he's out there And it's just one of these I can tell he derives great pleasure from crushing me at a game of horseshoes. I can't say because I the microdialysis, which is a way of extracting chemistry from the brain in real time, nor have I recorded from his whether or not he has or low levels of epinephrine. During those games of horseshoes, I suspect his low levels of epinephrine and high levels of dopamine, And he has, he wins every time. But the win is that you can provided that you were enjoying yourself. Okay, you can be competitive provided that you were enjoying yourself. There are particular forms of play that lend themselves And those particular forms of play again, are not designed to the plasticity that allows but rather to expand the for your brain to change and the two major forms of those for which there's good is to engage in novel forms of movement, including different speeds of movement. So let's say for instance, I happen to like running. I try and run three times a week. And generally when I run, I run forward, I don't run backward, although recently, because I've become very excited about the work of so-called his name is Ben Parker, but he goes by &quot;Knees Over I've never met him, but we've exchanged a few And some of his practices involve walking backwards or doing I found these to be very beneficial for my back and for my, you know, interior tibialis and some things that have really helped with my posture and so forth. But in general, when I run, I run forward, I don't tend to run backward that much. And I might do that for but not so much throughout the entire run. Running doesn't lend itself of movement, lateral movements. So for the nerds out there or angled movements, but it does appear that where you end up generating where there's jumping, where there's movement where there's ducking, that basically involve a And aren't just strictly linear. Those seem to open the And that's because they mimic that is associated with play. And the reason for that those dynamic movements and movements of different speeds engage the vestibular system. The balance system, the vestibular system is in the inner ear, relates to the cerebellum, which translates the mini brain. You got a little mini brain It brings together visual I talked a lot about this in the episode on how to learn faster. So if you want to go in and different types of motor I talk a little bit more, I but suffice to say that engaging in play that has a lot of dynamic movement or movements of different speeds, things like dance, things like sports, like soccer where you're That tends to be very conducive to what we would call provided you don't take it too seriously. You don't get those high Now for those of you that are also interested in non-physical or non-athletic forms of play that can really expand plasticity. There's some very interesting research about the game of Chess. I don't play the game of Chess. I've played a few times. I confess I don't know how So I'm not going to try but I've always wanted to learn Chess. And I think after reading some about chess and play and neuroplasticity, now I understand why there's a really nice paper published in the International in Education and Science in 2017. And the title of this paper is, &quot;Is Chess Just a Game or Is It a Mirror That Reflects a Child's Inner World?&quot; That's a very, a very intense title for a biologist like me, but this paper is so interesting because what it really points to is the fact that in a single game chess, you have at least as I and those two players are moving for which each piece can Can move in different ways but they're different And so each player actually has to assume multiple identities during the same game. And each of those identities and ways of interacting. So in a way we can think but actually chess is for exploring multiple roles And this is quite a bit different than for instance, video games where somebody has their or they have an avatar. And they're always in the same role. It's also quite a bit different for when you engage in any kind of play where you are yourself, you're just being you in that game. And so now I'm highly You see quotes out there, for instance, things like &quot;Chess is life I always assumed that that was chess or their entire life was but in reading over the research but at also certain forms of martial arts, also certain forms of dance. What one finds is that indeed those games are life in the sense that they involve and exploring contingencies So there are some games that allow you to explore of movements or of mental roles or of ways of engaging as is the case with chess. And so when you hear that, you know, activity blank is life. It often reflects the but I think looked at differently. It also reflects the is a portal through which through many, many different lenses. And I think that that's in terms of thinking about how play can be leveraged for plasticity. So for those of you that are for neuroplasticity and if you will, I highly recommend picking an activity that will allow you to within that activity where it's not rigidly linear. This is actually a way in which I start to depart from but somewhat narrow idea. That exercise is the Yes, it's true. I have Nobel Prize winning colleagues that swim for two miles a day and have done on that for a long time. And they will tell you, I always think more and I certainly in my or a good workout, my Unless of course, that workout I've talked about this before. If you do work out very, very hard in whether or not it's aerobic or resistance training you brain won't function mostly because of the diversion of oxygen to tissues away from your brain, you actually are getting but in general, most of us feel that if our brain functions better. But there are activities that beyond just generating over and over again, when or not it's exercise or not. And that's really what play is. Play is about dynamically of movements, dynamically exploring dynamically exploring that one could adopt. And that is the way that So I encourage you to explore chess. I intend to learn chess this year. I'm very excited to do that. Now, if you already play chess and you are an expert chess player, you actually will derive less benefit in terms of this play than you would, for instance, if you went out, and I don't know, played a game of soccer or did something that was very novel for your nervous system, because in that novelty and in that exploration of new behaviors and new ways of thinking, you are opening the portal to plasticity, whereas in doing what you and trying just to perform you will get better at chess, but again, that's just chess. You are not expanding the realms in which you can become more plastic, that you are able to learn new things in relationship, in life, in finance and In researching this episode, one of the most interesting was this notion of personal play identity, personal play identity is a term that at least to my a Turkish researcher by the name. And forgive me, I'm going is Gokhan Gunes G O K H A N, last name G U N E S. And forgive me Gokhan and if we have any Turkish please put the correction in make it fanatic so I can Please I'd love to or who knows if I got it right then it was pure luck. Gokhan Gunes has coined this and the key role that establishes in who we and not just in the context of play. Personal play identity has four well defined dimensions. And I should say that if you're interested in learning more about this, the paper that I found is published in Current Psychology and the title is &quot;Personal play identity and the fundamental elements And the author of course, is Gokhan Gunes G U N E S last name. This is from 2021. So recent review. There are four components how you play, your personality, socio culture and environment. So that's the third one that's together, socio culture environment, and economics and technology. Now that sounds somewhat complex, and this paper is somewhat complex, but basically what it says is that we bring together certain and how we react to when we're younger. And we bring that forward into the world. In all context as adults. To illustrate this, I'm going to ask you a question, when you were a child, let's say 10 years old, would you have considered Would you have considered yourself somebody who's cooperative? And realize of course that those are not mutually exclusive, you could be competitive and cooperative. Would you consider yourself somebody that preferred to play alone or preferred to play with Or were you somebody that in large groups? Here's a key one. Were you somebody that enjoyed playing the leader in one moment and was equally okay with being a follower at a later moment? Were you okay with midway through a game? Were you get up upset or be delighted or not care at all about during the middle of game because your team was winning right? To even things out, you can imagine how that You would immediately register that you must be a valuable player because you're being toward the losing team. But then again, you're now being forced How did you feel about that? Were you somebody that was comfortable with other people breaking rules or perhaps even yourself breaking rules or bending rules, kind of be able to find term, or were you somebody that really needed to know all the rules? And if everyone didn't was quite disturbed by that? The number of questions And I will provide a link to a paper that asks a number of questions that helps you arrive at or an index of what Gunes to as personal play identity. The point is that if we look back to our early adolescence, somewhere between 10 and 14 years old, a peak time for social development, a peak time for play of various kinds, a peak time for motor development, a peak time of psychosocial development, where we learn where we As we relate to members of the same sex of the opposite sex, et cetera, we can start to get a portal into how and why we show up to and relationship, et cetera, as adults. In fact, I'll venture to say that for ourselves for five or 10 minutes, you start to see some remarkable parallels between the way you were at that stage and your tendencies and We tend to look at our and our families, and to some degree our friends in terms of how we become who we become. I've talked about the on previous episodes of the podcast. Allan Schore is a psychiatrist and has done extensive work on how parent child and mother, but also baby and father shaped the brain and the brain and to go from states of the so-called dopamine to the more warm soothing that in broad terms could be described as more serotonin oxytocin That work really points to the key roles that the caregiver and the child you engaged in an early life. And that is incredible work. I do hope to host Dr. at some point in the but equally important of course, are the interactions that we export from that early laying down and psychological circuitry, to the way we play by ourselves and the way we play with others in small numbers or in great numbers. And of course it would be the case that how we played as a 10 or 12 year old would impact how we and as a 20 year old and as a 30 year old and so on and so on. One of my favorite things and developmental psychology is that it is grounded in the fact that we don't just have a There isn't just our child And even though there the mechanisms that at approximately age 25, it is simply the case that development is our entire lifespan, that our lifespan is one How long depends on our accidents, injury and disease of course, but it is one long developmental arc. And so it shouldn't surprise us at all that how we learn to play as would impact how we play as a teenager and a young adult and on and on and on. And that play is the in which we learn play is the substrate by which our nervous system changes us from this hyper-connected where everything is more or less to a brain and nervous system whereby certain circuits work and others are less accessible to us. But again, the wonderful thing about is that because it is plastic for the entire lifespan and because these two can be deployed again just because neural circuits didn't form does not mean that they And today we've been the same substrate that to become who we are, is the portal by which we can change who we are for the better. So I hope I've convinced you that play is an extremely important fundamental homeostatically regulated aspect of our nervous system, which is just a mouthful play can change your brain for the better. And that is true for every stage of life. The recommendation that I make, and certainly the one that as well is to try and engage in at least one hour of pure play per week. Now I came to that recommendation because of the literature that says, well, you need to engage It should be novel. So this wouldn't be something that you are exceptionally If you insist on doing something that you're already exceptionally good at, then you want to really do some free form, low stakes tinkering. So make it safe, but make it free form. So really explore things with that. Some people call this beginner's mind. Although I find that a little abstract, I like the notion of beginner's mind, but sort of like, how do you know if you're I think beginner's mind that you're not going to do it well yet, but play extends beyond beginner's mind. Play is really about not even worrying if you're or really proficient at it. It's really about exploring contingencies with truly low stakes. That's what will allow you to access these neurochemical combinations of elevated endogenous opioids, low epinephrine, et cetera, that will open up neuroplasticity. For those of you that need on how to play. There's a book out there actually learned about this it's called &quot;Play It Away: A So that's more focused on anxiety. The author is Charlie Hoehn, last name H O E H N will provide a link for it in &quot;Play It Away: A Workaholic's But books and other resources aside, I think one hour of play per week is a reasonable amount of time to engage in dedicated play behavior. For the purpose of opening for plasticity, the key feature of course, is to not have immense proficiency or at least not the way you perform it. And if you do gain well, then it becomes something else it's no longer about So in that case, you would then want to You'll notice that I largely avoided using the word fun Fun is a somewhat abstract term and like many emotions and of experience. It falls short in the context of a neurobiologic goal If you have fun, terrific. Some people might find, however that engaging in play Well there, your goal then of discomfort by focusing less on the outcomes and just simply engaging well, I'm telling you but hopefully you will tell yourself that it's good for you and that you will experience The literature certainly points to that. And the literature certainly play is the way that we are built. We are built to play. We have brain circuits from back to front and within our body that are there for play and they don't disappear. They do not get pruned away as we go from development to adulthood. So if ever you needed a for why play is important it's that. It's that biology does It's a extremely efficient. And were the circuits for in adulthood. They would've been pruned they are there in your brain they will be there tomorrow and they will be there going forward. So my suggestion is that you use them. One hour per week. If you're learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube Channel. That's at terrific zero In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and or Apple and on Apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. Please leave us comments and including suggestions in the comments section on YouTube, we do read all those comments. Please also check out at the beginning of the episode, that's the best way to We also have a Patreon it's And there you can support that you like. If you're not already following we are hubermanlab on Twitter and also hubermanlab on Instagram, on Instagram, I do short posts that covered on the podcast, but So these would include science based tools for things like focus for sleep, for learning and many In previous episodes of we often refer to supplements. Now supplements aren't necessary but many people derive for things like sleep and focus and so on. We've partnered with because Thorn supplements are in terms of the ingredients they use. And the specificity of the that are listed on the bottle are actually what is in those bottle, which is not the case for many If you're interested in that I take, you can go So that's thorne.com/u/huberman. And those supplements you And if you navigate deeper through that URL portal, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. Thank you once again, for joining me for this discussion about the incredible and power of this thing that we call play and last but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science. [Upbeat music]