upbeat jazz Good morning, guys, here we are The largest 55 year-old-plus From what I've been told that side... Takes up a huge amount of land. Over 100,000 people living here. So today we're gonna get in with the locals of what this lifestyle is like. Let's do this. upbeat jazz [woman laughing] PETER: All right, we've landed Heather, you're showing us around today? -I am. I am excited. -Your neighbor Jim I was gonna show you PETER: Let's do it. I've noticed your golf carts -[Heather laughing] Of course. [garage door opening] HEATHER: So here it is, JIM: It's a '34 Ford. I got a '22 CVO Road Glide and then I got a lifted 2012 Jeep. PETER: So what I'm gathering here -No, never home to enjoy it. [both laughing] It's a luxury of love and I've worked So it's like I moved down here, gave up my five acres, and traded in for a pair of shorts. PETER: So this is the rat pack JIM: Uh, this is... -This... The best village in DeLuna. Like 35 houses here and... PETER: Something tells me every village JIM: Well, of course they will. I mean you gotta have pride. But Heather, we're gonna get out -Yes, we are. HEATHER: There's a variety of people WOMAN: Well not only that, is all the negative Just a couple people, it's because they're unhappy I mean, I do so much. PETER: So a lot of stereotypes There's truth to many stereotypes, right? PETER: But today we're gonna 'Cause it's not what you think? -It's not what you think It's frustrating to me. -Yeah, I'm frustrated. -Uh, people just have a preconceived idea You know, my sister-in-law When people ask her where she lives She won't say The Villages that there's a real negative thing -Okay, what's the negative thing What is being put out there, let's say? We don't all have STDs. -We don't have STDs. HEATHER: I don't know a swinger. PETER: He's not swinging? PETER: Okay. [all laughing] HEATHER: You know, You know, we're not all... -No, 145,000. -And growing, yeah. PETER: I came through a gate... -But the guy just had a stop sign and he opened the gate -Yes. -It's more for just the perception, That it's secure and so people but it's very, very secure here. There's no crime to speak of. -No crime? We just moved here from Indiana We've lived all over the United States That's always been our goal. -Even over Hawaii? Just because the cost of living. You know, Florida, it has gone up I think I think the homes are real comparable Like where we're from in Indiana. -Okay, so one of these homes here -You could probably -Okay. It might have, People move here I mean I think there's somebody plus several countries here represented, and people come here with, say, They sold their house in California, and they come here, and it's... They can take their pick. -Right, but it is The golf cart? All the neighborhoods have regular streets but when you get on the main roads the golf carts have Like, they have HEATHER: These bridges are They've been adding them recently PETER: Right, so I came under this highway. -So do you feel like you're in a separate What is it like? Because that's what people call it. They talk about being in the bubble. -And when you have to go someplace um, you know, it's kind of a... It's different, you know? You go outside of the bubble or maybe to go shopping, There's so many restaurants and shops here. You really don't have to leave PETER: This is great. HEATHER: And they call them I slip back and forth. -Golf cars? HEATHER: Each of the village has a name. So we started in... Um, but this is Richmond. There are probably hundreds. -Hundreds of villages? And it's all built around, or a swimming pool, that sort of thing. PETER: So Heather, you're... You don't want to call it Because you're not retired? -And you're not You're above 55. I'm not gonna ask -Slightly, I'm slightly above 55. I think there's an 80/20 rule. So there are younger people that live here. Now you can't have young kids here. Like a few... the most they could stay is 30 days. And so 30 days at a time. -Would you want them any longer? -Well, yeah, exactly. -So this is a weekend. -This is pretty standard. It depends on what's happening and so We have a destination They may be going to shop. A lot of times you look So they're probably playing golf. There's, I don't know, -[surprised] 60? Six zero? -Six zero, and again, 57 square miles. -57 square miles. -That's bigger than San Francisco. -And it actually touches three counties. I think that's a gator. [giggles] -A gator? You see a gator? -No way. [both laughing] -You see it over there? -Oh, what? -All right, guys, we got a gator up there Golf car. -And a home. And so do those gators -Some people do have a gator, but it's really rare. They usually just stay Don't walk your little dog near the ponds but they usually leave you alone. -Gators love pocket dogs? -I've seen the videos. HEATHER: So we're coming into Brownwood, I would say it's probably because it's the closest one There's one really far north and then there's one, Lake Sumter, but this one's Brownwood. They'll have a theme. I'm gonna show you -Okay. -It's just for golf carts. where it says golf car? -That's great. PETER: Darryl, how much does it cost PETER: So this is only for golf carts? -No cars can come in here? -It is Disneyland. You see the facades of the building? -They have sort of like a barber shop... -So how old are these buildings here? This is maybe... You know... I would guess 10 years maybe, -Okay. -Maybe 5 to 10 years old. -They put some craft into this I gotta say. HEATHER: We have our own but we use And the law enforcement We've used the Sheriff's department. We have very low crime here the Sheriff's department, HEATHER: So this is one of Eisenhower is well-known for The Villages particularly because we have -Yeah. ...of a lot of Villagers. It's really beautiful. PETER: Oh, wow. HEATHER: It's just incredibly decorated. So if you go down the sides here you see When they build a rec center -Okay. For example, they just did and so they called for donations. Fire and police. But this is all military. -So are they doing this They want them to move here -No, it's just each of -Okay. -And so there are There's one... There's a rec center -Okay. There's one that has a lake theme, and cabin-looking, But this particular one -Yeah, it's beautiful. PETER: Hello, sir. HEATHER: Hi. HEATHER: Usually you can see So they had yoga this morning. PETER: So all of these community centers, -Yes. -And so people can live a very active life. -Endless amounts of things to do? -Endless, endless. I don't even know what kind of to crafting, to I think glass People play table tennis. MAN: Oh no, I'm in there. So this one is housing So this is just a gathering So if you want to find people like, there's different, you know, So Kentucky people get together PETER: Hello. HEATHER: Hi. WOMAN: Yeah, it's the Kentucky club. -Okay. HEATHER: Oh, a Kentucky Derby party. WOMAN: Yes, it's derby day. HEATHER: Oh, it is? HEATHER: So is everybody wearing a hat WOMAN: Mine's in there. PETER: I drove through Kentucky once, [all laughing] It was a nice drive. All right. HEATHER: I'm from Indiana, it's close. HEATHER: Close enough, right? PETER: And you're going casual I like your style. [all laughing] HEATHER: Oh, this looks great. HEATHER: They said we could peek. PETER: Barb, what did we miss out on? -We're gonna have the derby. PETER: &quot;We're just getting going.&quot; HEATHER: That's exciting, I like it. PETER: What is this here? PETER: What do you mean by that? MAN: No, we have big horses. [all laughing] PETER: I'm confused. It's a Kentucky thing? -Like here's the horse. PETER: You got a horse here? HEATHER: Oh, wow. PETER: So what are you gonna do? -You get assigned to a number Then your number comes up, [laughs] HEATHER: And then you move it, right? PETER: Hello, sir. Good afternoon. You know, I love the Southern accent. -Oh yeah, I know. -Yeah, it's just like a classy... -Growing up in the Northeast -Oh right, it's like uneducated or... I mean it sounds so cool. Hello. HEATHER: So the funny thing is... Imagine this everywhere. Like, they're doing things Pardon me. MAN: How are you? MAN: Thank you. WOMAN: It's 10 a person. PETER: Now we're talking money here, huh? HEATHER: Yeah, how much? PETER: What's the name of your horse? Oh my God. WOMAN: No, uh, Kentucky Derby Bourbon. HEATHER: Oh, she's got bourbon. -Yeah, that's her name. [all laughing] HEATHER: This gator's big. Everyone likes to take his picture. PETER: So that gator just HEATHER: Yep, he stays here generally. -How far will a gator -You know, I don't know. -You just have to run faster, right? -All right, while The Villages feels There are threats. That's a serious animal And then a nice game of golf PETER: What do you think these homes cost? HEATHER: Okay, those are -So do people stick to their villages? -Not necessarily, We're really big on driveway parties. They have food trucks coming, Like yeah, they go all out. -So it's not a lonely place out here? We have so many friends all over and um... -And you've only been here three years? We're gonna go under a tunnel now There are tunnels all over The Villages to get you from one side PETER: Okay, there's a similar theme here -Right, right, these are both but you'll notice an entirely different -So do you pay a massive HOA fee -No, it's... It's less than $300 a month. And I get unlimited golf -Are you serious? -That pays for all of this infrastructure? [Peter perplexed] Huh. -That's way cheaper -Yes. HEATHER: Now there may be some things, and they, you know, -Okay. -But generally all these activities -Okay, this sounds serious. [Heather giggles] They're playing... [chattering and dice clacking] Bunko. -What's Bunko? -It's supposed to be, I think, a dice game. I don't know how to play it actually and so you can... -Yeah, there is a lot of focus. There's probably a big prize. [dice clacking] HEATHER: See it's an entirely different -So each one of these -Yes, and The Villages I mean you can tell. -Okay, so let me understand -Right. -So the developers, and they made a lot on each plot sold. -And they keep buying, right? So it started in the '80s. -This family, the Morse family started it. I should say I'm not -Okay, sure. But they started in the '80s and so the northern part is all... Well not all because some of and regular homes have been built. Now the new homes I don't know what it's called It's a bond. That's what they call it -Okay. You pay it over the life of your mortgage then you pay it over X number of years. So it's, you know... -So there is something extra in there? -Okay. ...have already paid that off. -So if you buy a home that's preexisting, -Sure. Oh... We have an app and so if you're interested you just go to calendar and then, okay, so I wanna know today. What's happening today? So there's just Swimming starting at 7:00 AM. But I want to, say, what... I want to know at Brownwood There was a farmer's market at 9:00. -And tonight, So everything's on the app. You can find out where where you can do crafts, anything. Just so you guys know, this is not Nobody paid me. -You don't work for The Villages. -You're just fired up on living here. -And you reached out and said, Because it gets a lot of bad press, right? A lot of people think we're all, like, ...and we're not either. -I mean there's there's All walks of life. I can tell you what I feel so far. I feel a very happy environment -Yes. ...together, smiling, doing something, -Right. -I can't see what's wrong with that. -Like what's better that or living -Exactly. A dark apartment. -Without anyone around, you know? I think COVID really opened our eyes and still work or even buy into -You're not retired, Darryl? DARRYL: We're that close. -Maybe by the time the filming ends. -By the time this video is posted. DARRYL: But like Heather said, and probably 100,000 of them Living here? Everybody's just having -Is it because you're sort of Like everyone's sort of and you're here for each other HEATHER: Right. DARRYL: One thing I did, I was they have a Villages forum where you can and there's things like different communities and on that you'll find &quot;I need a ride to the hairdresser.&quot; And people will just come, and pick you up, They're just like -So is it almost like the US Where the neighborhoods I mean that's just my thought -No, I think it's true. You know, when we bought our house, just like maybe would have happened and came and greeted us, I don't have that where I lived before. I mean it is sort of like All right, guys, the camera is that we're traveling. 'Cause I have it off a lot of times Hour and constant cruising and so it's just community center, And I guess we're going The town we're going to has a full-on bank, -Oh yes, absolutely. -In The Villages. -Oh, you don't really want for much, It's all contained within the villages. -Yeah, I was just saying an hour, hour and 20 minutes. -Consistently, -A fraction of The Villages. So we're gonna come up on a town, We call Town Square, is probably in the northern part. What I call the northern part More of... Not the original But then there's so many more Like the one down south that they Like, they didn't have ...when they built here, right? Let's do a test here, we have to go -[giggling] That's right. We gonna race? -And we'll see... We could race, I'm gonna keep talking to you. My question is this before you go... -Does it change, the older places, -A little bit. A little bit. Not necessarily, but yeah. -Ready? Here we go. -All right, we'll see [Heather's voice echoing] in the older communities but as a younger person -Can you hear me? [giggles] I can buy a pre-owned home So as a 57 year old, -Okay. -Just because I like So I might have chosen to live up here it's a little bit older community. -Now is there ever a tension that have been here for a long time -Yes. -Yes, well... -A little bit of tension. They want The Villages to stop expanding. -Okay. &quot;I thought The Villages &quot;I thought they were gonna stop &quot;I thought they were gonna stop and so some of the original folks How big does it need to be, you know? Because we do share restaurants -It's the mentality like, -Yeah. That's a problem all over the country. But, you know, you're sharing. Like I said, everything's here everything is right here. So if you keep adding people -Your doctor's offices are in the villages. -Hospitals? And it's associated with So it's a quality hospital. -Okay. -So do you think there are people -Yes. -You see how ...and the flowers are gorgeous. -Well those are annual flowers, they'll come in and they take them all out, So everything always looks perfect. If you see a branch, a palm leaf down, before it's picked up. -Where do all the workers live -That's really one of the... That's kind of the rub, and that is why The Villages is building In order to attract enough workers they really have to have other amenities, and so there are neighborhoods if you work in The Villages. So there are special... Like my niece lives associated with The Villages. She's in her 30s. -So there are, wait... -Yes, in the surrounding... Outside of The Villages and they're actually building So right now everything you've seen is There's a charter school and it's very popular, My understanding, but my understanding is or have a certain service level of a job. Like maybe you're a cop Then your kids can go there. It's very sought after. And so now they're building a second one It's called Middleton. But in addition to the school they're So family-style homes. And that will be interesting. So it won't just be 55 and older. -Do you ever see any golf cart... -Yes, my understanding is there was just... There were two in the same day So it doesn't happen very often. We're not wearing them but we have So at top speed I'm going That's about normal. -I bet you get a lot of -You do. One of the ponds, the retention ponds, after a night at the town square, somebody was driving home and ended up in the pond. And then she couldn't really tell... She called 911 She missed the stop of a golf cart path. She was in the water [both chuckling] So it happens. -Oh yeah, oh yeah. HEATHER: A lot of this is newer. -It feels like a little bit. But you'll find restaurants, gift shops, -Can someone from -Yes. There's some live music going on. PETER: Is that where [Heather giggles] -No swingers, there's no swingers. Well there might be but in my experience... -Thank you... HEATHER: I don't think so. [laughs] So we have, you know, -Oh, wow. -This is a bit like The Truman Show, -Yes, I have heard it -So you don't have No homelessness obviously, right? -Crime? I mean I'm sure... -Maybe some domestic stuff happening. -Perhaps, and, you know, but I have heard people because the keys sometimes are universal. So people will take home -Sure. -And so then it gets reported as stolen. But we're gonna go There's a parking style. So if you're in a golf cart So two cars if you go in like this. -Wait, I feel like you got -It's a little bit. -You gonna get called out? It's very possible. Villages also has their own radio station It's a house right there. PETER: &quot;FM 102.7&quot;? You can hear it playing out here right now. -Oh, the speakers? soft rock playing on speakers HEATHER: So there's some gorgeous -Okay, out there? Really beautiful homes. PETER: There he is. PETER: Looking highly stressed-out. [both laughing] -Oh yeah, there's -How are the costs with, say, -It's pretty normal, you know, We have different grocery stores, Sometimes people complain but I think it's just relative, I mean... Electric Slide playing on PA PETER: Oh, there the ladies are. He's hitting on 'em. This guy might have the moves. PETER: You guys aren't retired are you? We live in The Villages but... -I think you're the one people [all laughing] -Yep, there ya go, there ya go. -You never know, we might just look young. [all laughing] MAN: I saw something on Facebook Most people who live here, because, man, I suppose people do whatever they do, The neighbors here, my neighbors are cool. -So I came in today thinking -Oh man, I got people on my block, Which is the southern end I got 40-year-olds on my block, and then you got So it's a good mix of people. I've got neighbors Right? -And last night we had them over that are older than us, you know, all that, &quot;We had a blast.&quot; You know, all that, Four hours, just having a blast. So definitely a sense of community. You cannot be bored. My 23-year-old son, he's convinced -[Peter laughing] Really? -He's 23 and he's like, He absolutely loves it. So, nah... What's not to love? If you're not happy here, It's not the most in terms of racial ethnic diversity, but when I came in here and I started talking to they all said the same thing, &quot;Where they been And so nobody said a bad word about it. And so, you know, we just fit in. If you're nice, I don't care That doesn't matter to me you're smiling and enjoying the life. People talk about red, blue, whatever. It's whatever, you know what I mean? So I don't care... -Does it matter when you're -Yeah, like... -All that stuff don't matter. I'm always having my camera out videoing just because I love to see So I guess it allows you To be old and feel okay to get up and start dancing? -And there are people -Oh, I bet. -Imagine if you can't really drive anymore -Right. Sorry, golf car. -And so that just opens up your life. -Come down here -So there will be a band here People... You can see some people It's probably their favorite band. Some people bring lawn chairs -It's gonna be packed? -And so with the bands, it's all free? And so one of the things that people... You know, you're reminded They're not all Villagers... -...that will come here for the band It's a free band and you can go out. Kid Rock PETER: I wouldn't have thought Kid Rock on the radio. -You know, there's a lot 50-somethings, -I can imagine the 80 year olds -Um... They don't seem to. is young at heart. -Oh, there we go. So what is this, &quot;McLin Burnsed&quot;? -So interestingly enough So you have a lot of financial planners -Okay. -Law firm? So this bank down here -The Villages Bank? -So my understanding is it's owned the Morse family. -Okay. -We worked with them in because, again, Within The Villages you can find but this is actually a Villages-owned bank. -So Citizens is The Villages bank? So if you buy a home here... &quot;Rockstar&quot; by Nickelback [Peter laughing] Okay, if I hear Slipknot, then I know -Okay, so I was saying, Yeah. -This is an original building? So there's, like, a preservation society. Some of the buildings around here -So do they have better interest rates? -Well I think their and I found them to be Yeah. -Buying a house here, -It's recommended, yeah, So you get an MLS realtor The typical systems, Realtor.com -But you need a Villages realtor too are just listed through the villages. So they're realtors and they have certain listings. So you can't see... -Okay, that's a little clunky. -So as a buyer... -...you're dealing with two realtors. -If you want to get the full view -If you're buying a pre-owned home. If you're buying a brand new home There's tons of construction right now. We had some flooring installed and our... The flooring guy told us to floor 5,000 more houses So they're building like crazy. Those new homes, you can only buy PETER: Do you think after year 10 The Bel Air? Oh, I think that's got a back seat too. Oh, that's great. disco -[woman on PA speaker] PETER: So now you feel like as far as businesses, right? Barnes and Noble. Right, Barnes and Noble. -Like, a big one too. We have Walmart in The Villages. -[Peter intrigued] Huh. PETER: And these carts out there. -So this is a golf cart store. So you can buy... -This is a different one. This is the third one we've passed. Oh yeah, it's a big business. You can custom order your golf cart. -How much does a nice golf cart cost? -Um, if you were to get a decent new one, Some of the ones you see -Like that Bel Air one we just saw? Yeah. mellow jazz HEATHER: So this is back But we only turned and went this way. So you haven't seen any of this up here. Is this the town we're going to? -Okay. ...only again, different theme. That was all, like, Key West theme, PETER: So Heather, bit of your back story, you just took a job in Daytona Beach... ...in education. -Yes, in higher education. -What university in Daytona Beach. -Embry Riddle Aeronautical University. -Yeah, it's a really highly ranked -Yeah? [live band playing in the distance] -This is every weekend night or what? -Every night? PETER: So in a way it's come across It's been very positive. -What are the drawbacks? ...or you haven't felt them yet? Yeah, no, I'm pretty content here. I... You know... We need to meet some more people We've met our neighbors but we haven't a lot of clubs and things yet. So I'm looking forward to that. live band playing oldies Okay, now we either need to find a seat PETER: Dance floor. band playing &quot;I Fought the Law&quot; PETER: She's here every night, and she, Like, kinda puts a show on. PETER: Transgender, yeah? [song ends and applause] &quot;Worst That Could Happen&quot; WOMAN: Is it what you thought -No, I thought it was pure retirement. There's an awesome, like, positive, Yeah, because &quot;This is too Disneylandish.&quot; -But then, like you said, and you get the feeling of, &quot;We're here to enjoy -Yeah. -I hear criticism. It's most people here have worked and it's just that you're now relaxing. That's all it is. Tons of volunteer work goes on around here. A ton of it. People are still giving back My job was very 24/7 Although it is difficult to slow that down, &quot;Oh, life is not so bad.&quot; WOMAN: Have you been to Indiana? -Just checking, I'm from Indiana too. MAN: That's not what -Well I was born in Louisville. PETER: You were trying to get in -No. -Huh-uh. -But you're from Indiana? Born in Louisville, Southern Indiana Back, forth, back, forth, [inaudible] Especially today when they're singing And I'm down here [Heather laughing] PETER: Are we gonna get you -Only if I get fired. [Heather giggling] band playing oldies [music slows down] [music fades] -All right, guys. Few final thoughts here from The Villages. When I told some friends one of them said, &quot;Isn't that just Another, I won't name who... Uh... Laughed and looked down &quot;Ugh, those people down there.&quot; So what I'd like to leave you with we all get used to making labels on things. Um... Say, Villages is this or... Whatever is that. And then onto the next bit of information. But really there is usually So take any form of media. My form of media here for what it is. I met one person, a few people today Are there problems here? I'm sure. Is there all sorts of things going on? Well, you have 140,000 people. Of course. Humans are messy. But take this story today as... Well, maybe things aren't This could be your nightmare We're all different. But understanding Well, in my opinion, number one. That was a lot of fun today. I enjoyed it and it definitely 'Cause I didn't think it would be... Well, this positive, A happy vibe out here, and I think it's Such as security, community, and I can definitely see the draw to here. All right, guys, thanks for coming along. Until the next one. upbeat jazz