Previously, in the stretch duck 7 video, I old Army DUKWs, which is actually not true further. I've had the pleasure of being in direct contact Duck Tours, for the past couple weeks now discuss this in more detail and before we a few items on the Boston Fleet that really innovation and safety measures they've implemented This isn't a paid segment and *not* an endorsement refreshing to see this much attention to safety from the standard that the now defunct Ride to being so popular and now so infamous. They do look similar to those used and modified and overall structure, but if you've been about, the NTSB in duck 7's report, focused these made up most of Branson's fleet. The &quot;original ducks&quot;, not stretched or at their overall proportions. Still have been restored &amp; modified within Referred to as both &quot;Fleet Ducks&quot; or &quot;Original And at the opposite end of the NTSB's chart This vessel is built on the more modern 6x6 The M35 was the successor to the old CCKW The old DUKW being a derivative of the CCKW. Built from the ground up though, specifically Duck Tours; from WWII DUKWs (and 3 Stretch Ducks) to the We retired our last WWII DUKW in 2014 and The Truck Duck is similar to the "Master video that showed the different hull forms. It was the successor to the Stretch Duck. While the Stretch Duck is a WWII DUKW under vehicle, based on the modified chassis of The beam is wider, the buoyancy is far greater, much higher, the hull steel is thicker, etc. In our opinion it's a much better and safer Also noting; (when in use) only by velcro, easily pushed -The front cattle pusher bar is an added safety -The vessel is surrounded by cameras for a the on road portion allows these separate panels to slide open and amidships. And the location Boston Duck Tours utilize is vastly different than where both the Branson We'll be learning alllll about how location video and will touch on the Charles River So, keep In Mind; the Ride the Ducks brand The Guam duck tours still carry the name but Ride the Ducks International, as it was known. Yes, &quot;Ride the Ducks&quot; was and in a way still like kleenex brand for tissues, but &quot;Ride duck tours today have their own brand names... like &quot;Branson Duck Tours&quot;, &quot;Boston Duck Tours&quot; This is in response to the overwhelming amount Ducks&quot; still operating here, there's &quot;Ride referring to amphibious tours that are still Just because those are amphibious passenger brand. This is an unfortunate side effect of Ride So, I just wanna clarify that... So, as they say on the Youtubes; Let's Get In the Tragedy Aboard Stretch Duck 7, we saw maintenance and modifications became, in the And while I did cover extensively, several this close to keeping the mention of Duck couldn't. As I read further into it, Ride the Ducks seat to the outright negligence in seafaring aboard the tugboat caribbean sea. But to an extent, aboard duck 34 as well. As for the modified army duck tour boats, backstory (links will be in description for these vessels were purpose built for World have a lifespan of only a few months. Once world war 2 was over, they were quickly And since they were already a handful to operate in their use as military vehicles... it required that much more effort to keep Some received this treatment, many others, And unfortunately, even many of those that tour vessels. Another issue we can learn from, especially duck tours (if you've seen the previous videos); the facts. With everything we know, about all the safety the years, much of which due to negligence... it would be easy to just put Duck 34's incident But as with anything I bring up, in regards diligence, before jumping to conclusions... Herschend Family Entertainment had been the since 2004; the Philadelphia location, one Branson, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle, The Ride the Ducks brand had been around since was relatively new on the scene. As with other Ride the Ducks locations, they the same standards, as the rest of the company. Ride the Ducks International would modify transports, to varying degrees. All vessels would get their powerplants replaced rear boarding ladders and operator &amp; passenger But for various reasons, Ride the Ducks created the ducks to allow for this increased passenger Most commonly, they were lengthened to carry And many were *not* otherwise built up or Duck&quot;. Others received more robust bows, additions for more freeboard and it's thought, more Jig&quot; Duck. The most glaring example of this difference A Master Jig Duck, pushing through the exact Duck. Right alongside one another. Of the commercial Amphibious vessels in the inspections show a large majority being World stretched. Duck 34, was of the Stretch Duck variety. While Tank Barges *appear* similar to the they're on average, much longer, wider and simpler open hull counterparts. Most inland bulk barges can be moved in groups at a time, pushed from the rear and referred While specialized barges with greater dimensions and often in single unit tows only. Just the one barge and its tugboat. Purpose built for the City of Philadelphia in 1989... The Resource, a non-self propelled sludge 250 Feet in length 2,100 Gross Tons It's freeboard, or height above the waterline, at the bow and 4 and a half feet at the stern. But the empty freeboard was 20ft at the bow Exceptionally high for a barge... This vessel was 1 of 2 used by the city of their pollution control plant and a privately Moving these vessels, or &quot;towing&quot; them, from tugs with an upper wheelhouse perched much seen on inland waterways. The tank barge's height above the waterline, that much extra effort to see over and around The Tugboat Caribbean Sea, built in 1961 by started its life as the CLinton C Cenac. The vessel, purpose built for coastal ocean Originally built with only the standard height, The tugboat would change hands many times vessels. 79 feet long And with a draft of 10 feet deep Engines. The original height would be increased at wheelhouse was added to give operators a view The upper wheelhouse capable of independently And while the small enclosure did have heaters Air Conditioning like the main wheelhouse... foreshadowing for later in this video. The originally named, Clinton C Cenac changed In 1989 changed to The HD Campbell 1998 The Vivian L Roehrig It's unclear exactly when this upper wheelhouse early as the vessel's Vivian Roehrig Chapter. Then in '07 the Roehrig would be purchased Brunswick, New Jersey. Where it was renamed to Caribbean Sea. When operating under K-Sea Transporation, The Ship's Captain, a Licensed Master Two Deckhands Each shift of 5 would live on the tugboat schuylkill &quot;Skoo-kuhl&quot; and delaware river With crew changeover taking place every two While offices and ticketing were located in the Ducks Philadelphia boarding location was boarded and disembarked at 6th and Chestnut Since this area of the city is so historic, often narrow streets was quite extensive, Once the ducks reached Race Street, this led reserved exclusively for Ride the Ducks. Splashing in on the North side of the Race the pier. Required to remain within 1,000 feet from each piers east end. They'd be in the ship channel but would be &quot;stay well clear of the shipping lane traffic Potential (pre-planned) points for either of the residential pier, inside the Penn's At a point east of the Marina's opening, the exiting via the same dedicated ramp. The water tour no more than 30 minutes total. regardless of location. A licensed captain that would act as driver guide and of course, with no assistance, expected The ducks by their nature, on-road, have several vehicles. For example, the large bow and driver's position that of a normal vehicle of this size, have vehicles, pedestrians or motorcyclists have due in large part to lack of visibility while And in the water, they are quite vulnerable amount of maneuverability along with additional the calmest of waters, the modified original so on... a lot to manage, exacerbated in demanding But contrary to some of the Ride the Ducks set a precedent for some of their other locations operating in a much busier water environment; Landing. The US Coast Guard, aware of this, and the waters... issued a mandate in 2004 to Ride operation, requiring them to add a second would always be free during the water transit Referred to in the maritime world, as a deckhand. The Coast Guard was also much more active waters like Table Rock Lake in Branson, so constantly. Ride the Ducks corporate of course fought appeal. In their rejection letter, responding to the &quot;We make this decision based on a number of on the Delaware River in the vicinity of Penn's Compared to the relatively benign operating lakes and protected harbors with little or involves a more hazardous environment, which The operating route is within close proximity and towing vessels traverse on a regular basis, swamping -by your own admission, your operators minimize wake impact. Furthermore, with a maximum speed of perhaps which is further exacerbated by river currents Finally, we're aware of at least 2 incidents propellers, rudders, struts and/or shafts an additional risk liability. When taken in combination, these risk factors Duck operations require the addition of a The Coast Guard would go on to say... &quot;Beyond the elevated risks associated with an unwieldy number for one person to manage, ...Typically, small passenger vessel operations in addition to the licensed master, regardless Requests to drop the deckhand are considered of the entire fleet of small passenger vessels most passengers allowed for a single-pilot ...The master's primary focus needs to be issues must not interfere with this duty. In the event of an emergency, the deckhand and emergency procedures, including handing and keeping general order. Coupled with the added risk factors explained essential to safe operation of the Philadelphia Also, in what appears to follow the pattern subsidiaries, the Philadelphia Fleet was all maintenance issues; June 2005; Duck 22 suffered a propulsion failure with object in the Delaware River causing the propellor The Coast Guard noting that neither the vessel duck sat without propulsion on the Delaware. Fortunately with no injuries, the vessel was August 2005; Duck 46 suffered engine failure on the Delaware Luckily no injuries were reported but the aboard at the time. May 2006; Duck 22 again experiences loss of propulsion on board. This time due to engine failure when a radiator and shutdown. After sitting anchored, the vessel would be were reported. May 2007; Duck 24 reports loss of main steering system aboard. Fortunately a manual, back up control system it back to the exit under it's own power. July 2009; Duck 25 experienced loss of propulsion while Tied up to a pier near the Ben Franklin bridge, Duck 34. A portion of the propellor drive had sheared Again, authorities were not notified and it's resolve the situation without intervention. When the Coast Guard did intervene, and inspected have both been operating beyond the expiration At a depth of 40+ ft, The Delaware River ship vessels... of many types. Even just taking a quick look... right near Penn's Landing itself, there are hulking in size, especially when compared Not all barges of sizes similar to The Resource, even amongst those operated by K-Sea. Many are designed with what's called a &quot;push A standard Tugboat, even one like the Caribbean Tugboat or ITB connections... can latch on, creating a single integrated The ITB can operate in sea and weather conditions When these barges are the same size as the pilothouse, due to their high freeboard, but journeys. The Resource and The Recycler, however, were between the Northeast Water Pollution Control Recycling Center on the Schuykill River for A relatively short haul at about 11.7 Nautical water control plant loaded them regularly, at Biosolids for processing. With only a shallow stern indentation, rather docks and frequency of moves, it meant these instead. On Wednesday July 7th, K-Sea Transportation of Philadelphia to move The Resource and Recycler Water Pollution Control Plant for reloading. Since they were empty, this meant their freeboard the waterline at the bow. The tugboat Caribbean Sea was tied at the starboard side pushed against it. While less favorable than the position of over the vessel in all directions. Duck 34 would complete two tours on Wednesday Returning from the second by 1:15 pm. Boarding took place around 1:30 for Duck 34's In addition to the master, was a total of Hungarian Students and their 2 teachers... all with varying levels of english comprehension. They were accompanied by their 7 local American In interviews afterwards, a handful of passengers voice only for the most part, far less demonstration briefings. The passengers ranged from 8 to 72 years old. Duck 44, boarded 32 passengers and got underway, Reaching the duck ramp, the routine was to the water. Both the captain and deckhand were licensed Alternating duties of; narration (engaging piloting according to their company policies. Duck 34 would splash in at about 2:15pm, the 13, alerting local marine traffic to their He would soon switch to the jump seat to act Of the 5 crew on board the Tugboat Caribbean 1, were scheduled to be off duty and in their on board), Deckhand 2 and the engineer remained Prior to getting underway, the master had -His expectations of preferred positioning, -Along with his expectations for the mate northbound, due to the barge's high freeboard of the vessel, from the main wheelhouse. &quot;No problem. You don't have to worry, that's normal. That's where I would be.&quot; the mate responded. The master and deckhand no. 1, around this time, would retire to their Important to note though, the NTSB points with K-Sea at the time, requiring which wheelhouse empty. And that the master did not note these directions it was later confirmed to have been made and Held fast in a Starboard Hip Tow, to The Resource's one hour prior to Duck 34 splashing in; 1:15pm. The Biosolids facility had recently finished back to the Northeast Water Pollution Control They'd make their way north in the river channel The high temperature that day, a miserable records as one of the hottest days in Philadelphia Duck 34 had completed their turn around and exit ramp, Duck 44 behind and starboard by At 2:25pm, with the deckhand at the helm, what appeared to be smoke from the engine's The deckhand and captain would switch positions. Once in the jumpseat, the deckhand requested of seats step back to avoid the smoke. The captain took fire mitigation actions, securing the ignition switch, activating the hatch. The captain would stop short though of activating not 100% sure whether it was smoke, or just amongst the passengers. In interviews with authorities, the captain Channel 13 to all vessels in the vicinity. However, the NTSB finds no record of this Regardless, Duck 44 was within sight and upon distance to offer assistance. Duck 34's crew let them know &quot;everything's in to the Ride the Duck's office. &quot;Finish the tour - Everything's all right.&quot; the deckhand told duck 44's master. Duck 44 was also not fitted with the necessary A manager from the offices, using the direct-connect being dispatched separately to tow Duck 34. By this point, duck 34 had already drifted down propulsion, the captain ordered the deckhand The anchor took about 4 minutes to set, dragging anchoring the vessel close to the center of Onboard the tugboat, the engineer had gone duties. Having seen the upper wheelhouse occupied, deckhand no. 2 would also go about his daily duties in However, once underway, the mate immediately cell. Roughly 8 miles into the journey and nearing both incoming and outgoing, had been made... Which investigators would later discover and a legitimate, serious family medical emergency. As The Resource and Caribbean Sea passed by to bustling with tourists and locals... the wheelhouse is clearly not occupied. The space is small enough such that a crewmember very clearly be visible through these windows. Instead, on the phone, not in the upper wheelhouse, 2 relieve his position as lookout. The mate was currently on a call that initiated Landing... Just prior to this, Duck 34's crew first noticed mile of separation. Also claiming in a later interview to have to alert local marine traffic of their situation... however, authorities were unable to verify The distance though and perspective they had it was taking maneuvers to avoid them. After the initial sighting, was around the the bow and drop anchor. As the distance between the vessels closed remained out on the bow, assumed to be sharing been specifically ordered to do so. After all, standing atop the bow would allow Instead, the deckhand would take out his cell a friend... In the meantime... the captain had finished manually sealing used for heat dissipation. They were still allowing a bit of vapor to the time to seal it off while they waited. With the vapors clear, the captain then had return to their seats. It was around this same time he looked up course and was bearing down on their vessel. With the bow of The Resource 2 minutes away, addressing the Caribbean Sea on channel 13, and confirmed by authorities. The passenger ferry freedom, within sight immediately after duck 34's attempt and then guard. Some, but not all passengers recalled hearing jackets. And in an interview with one of the survivors... &quot;One of the ladies... from our church got And she started pulling down the life vests, were getting up and pulling life vests down, Fortunately many passengers followed the example vests properly in such a short amount of time, them from their placements in the canopy. The deckhand leapt from the bow of the duck In this configuration though, and with what overall on emergency egress along with an captain, if any... no one but the deckhand escaped the vessel The barge struck the passenger vessel at 2:37 Impacting on its stern and slightly to port. In a process that took about 10 seconds, the and pushed completely under water. The vessel would never re-surface, sinking According to the NTSB, most passengers could made it back to the surface. Many recounting that one moment they were Some said they remembered seeing sunlight towards it. For those who'd lost track of their life jackets, on the surface near where the victims popped The ferry freedom was on its normal &quot;River Camden to Penn's Landing and made their best Upon arrival they began assisting survivors boats, 3 coast guard rescue boats and a Navy within just a few minutes. Many passengers were helped out of the water and were helped by multiple first responders It probably goes without saying but no one Sea. In total; 26 Duck boat passengers suffered And after exhaustive searches, 2 Victims were A 20 year old and 16 year old, seated together from the group of Hungarian visitors. The Coast Guard and Police searched tirelessly they'd somehow survived. According to ABC Philadelphia and NPR; body recovered around 4:45am Friday July 9, just south of the Walt Whitman bridge. The second victim recovered during the process that afternoon. Onboard the tugboat, as the barge drove the and engineer were sitting at a crew table They felt a sudden reduction in the two engines' Looking out the porthole though, the deckhand their port side. The 2 went to the main deck where they saw vessel to port and stern, pushed by the river The engineer rushed to the master's stateroom Approaching in the passageway, he saw the in the doorway... he heard no conversation the mate that appeared to be &quot;disbelief, like The mate had knocked on the master's door &quot;I ran over a duck boat&quot;. The master threw on what clothes he found taking over the vessel. They'd passed up river far enough that they and the ferry freedom had already made call The master swung the tow to starboard and from the scene. After initial rescue and sweeps of the scene Sector Delaware boarded the Caribbean Sea. Two Coast Guard investigators interviewed At first, he'd informed investigators that of the collision but had not seen the Duck He also stated he did not hear any radio calls The NTSB was also unable to verify any calls in the area. Later in the evening, K-Sea Transportation would invoke his right to the Fifth Amendment including the NTSB. At the mate's request, K-Sea Transportation The mate had informed them his young son experienced to be a relatively routine medical procedure &quot;He had become consumed with dealing with He had also made no other crew members, including was going on. Strangely, investigators also found the mate log; SW Sludge Dock&quot; but then... &quot;2:30; Made Rounds - Engine Room &amp; Security, The tow of course never having arrived at timeframe, let alone by 2:30. According to investigators; FBI forensics in the main wheelshouse, also revealed web with subsequent following of those searches' Ride the Ducks Philadelphia suspended all and kept operations suspended, for the remainder With the Coast Guard and NTSB present, the The NTSB taking possession immediately thereafter. The canopy framing still intact along with and subsequent lack of propulsion... which Although, the NTSB found *no* issues in either Qualifications of Crewmembers Or Drugs and Alcohol Use And regarding the Tugboat's potential to avoid No issues were found with; Waterway Configurations and communications functions of the Caribbean Findings of primary cause by the NTSB *did* &quot;The mate of the Caribbean Sea failing to monitoring the radios, while navigating the use of his cell phone and the company laptop Contrary to the master's instructions and the mate of the Caribbean Sea was not navigating time of the collision. The mate of the Caribbean Sea should have of personal use of cell phones and company-provided the accident, he did not follow the policy. Had the mate of the Caribbean Sea informed of the serious family medical emergency, he the watch.&quot; Secondary and contributing to the incident, &quot;The DUKW 34 surge tank pressure cap was not the missing pressure cap allowed the engine the passenger compartment and prompted the believed he had an onboard fire. The mechanics who performed post-trip inspections tank pressure cap was securely in place before DUKW 34 master did not fully appreciate or that faced DUKW 34 and its occupants once anchored in the navigable channel. DUKW 34 deckhand's personal use of his cell the bow of the vessel distracted him from After a series of trials and then pleading of a ship, causing passenger death... The mate of the Caribbean Sea admitted he for an extended period of time prior to the Admitting to piloting from the main wheelhouse during that time. That he intentionally lowered the volume to and better hear his phone conversations, along was air conditioned, quieter and feeling panicked tending to his family emergency. As 2011 approached, for their part Ride the new route on the Schuykill River, which I'm Weir, as barge traffic stops at that point... Schuykill River Trail. It's reported though, by several local news city of Philadelphia did not approve this the ducks resumed operations on the Delaware and shortened the water transit overall. From the Phillyducks Facebook Page Posted &quot;As of October 5, 2016, Ride The Ducks Philadelphia As the nation's largest amphibious tour through sightseeing"; we offer guests an so that we can serve our employees and communities. Due to circumstances outside of our control premiums, continued operations in Philadelphia We enjoyed serving the people of Philadelphia during that time. We are working with the 42 full and part-time severance and outplacement assistance.&quot; &quot;We regret having to close our operation... to the people of Philadelphia.&quot; From the NTSB's Recommendations: To the U.S. Coast Guard; Develop and implement an investigative protocol routinely check for nonoperational use of devices Revise your commercial vessel accident database of those same devices Regulate and enforce the restriction on nonoperational Until you can develop regulations governing wireless electronic devices by on-duty crewmembers outreach program of information and education To Ride The Ducks International: Review Ride The Ducks International's existing means to ensure that your company's safety adhered to by employees in safety-critical To K-Sea Transportation Partners: Review K-Sea Transportation's existing safety to ensure that your company's safety and to by employees in safety-critical positions. To Operators in American Waterways, in General: Notify your members of the circumstances of that their safety and emergency procedures in safety-critical positions. The City of Philadelphia would also begin barges as a result. In stark contrast is the Boston Duck Tours From my contact representing Boston Ducks; &quot;The traffic on the Charles River in our area The only Commercial traffic is from two tourism So it's a very calm and serene spot we operate And indeed, this spot on the Charles is less is not navigable by ocean-going or really, But as it pertains to the Ride the Ducks Brand, This is NOT to say that there are no more many of the issues related to duck tours using what I can gather, negligence on behalf of Like we touched on earlier with Boston's Duck with more safety and reliability built in, and purpose built vessels... especially since aren't getting any younger. Work both behind the scenes, during the ride, and so on is all crucial in amphibian tours. You might know by now how much I like my NTSB On the ramming of duck 34, the NTSB Chairman &quot;It is time to change public tolerance for opprobrium (reproach or criticism) for transportation This behavior is unsafe and unacceptable. On July 7, 2010, the Caribbean Sea tugboat/barge with passengers on the Delaware River in Philadelphia. Although the mate made 13 outgoing calls and prior to the accident, the tugboat's crewmembers his personal cell phone. They likely did not report it because they The fact that the mate repeatedly made and showed that he, too, was comfortable with Further, the mate spoke on his cell phone The potential for coworkers to observe him inappropriate behavior. Nor was the company's clear policy against The NTSB has seen pervasive use of personal transportation. Perhaps the best known aviation instance was communication with air traffic control for their personal laptop computers. They overflew their destination by more than a flight attendant inquired about their arrival The NTSB identified distraction due to text 2008, commuter train engineer running a red The result: a head-on collision with a freight Twenty-five people died and dozens were injured. The engineer, who had a history of using his 136 and received 114 text messages while on Distractions, as we all know, are a growing as the handheld and infotainment options in The consequences can be deadly. In one accident the NTSB investigated, in of a tractor-trailer truck made 97 calls and In the half hour preceding the crash, the time--on the phone. Ten people died that day after the truck crossed Even with company policies, widespread public laws to minimize distractions like cell phone --I'll make this quick call or I'll send The technology that created these problems But, as a society, how do we convey to manufacturers are just as unacceptable as driving under When will we say; Here's a long view of transportation that operations. In 2006, the NTSB received a request from aviation accidents that the Board investigated. The 1967 accident involved a Piedmont Airlines that had a mid-air collision over North Carolina. All 82 people on board both planes were killed. The cockpit voice recorder identified that the 727 discussed one of the cockpit ashtrays As they put out the fire, the crew joked with night's barbecue. However, smoking or burning cigarette ashtrays the Board did not even mention the event in In this time and culture, can you even begin in the cockpit? What changed since 1967? The culture changed. We do not allow smoking on airplanes. It is not even remotely considered. The consequence--society's disapproval--is I want our society to reach the point when a vessel, a train, or a motor vehicle--is or not wearing a seat belt, or driving under Culture change is possible. It has happened before. It must happen again--now. How many more lives will be lost before our distractions?&quot; In Memoriam... In Closing... Don't be afraid to learn something new, change model. At the end of the day, we're all in this together... we're all caught in the churn. So Believe in Yourself... 'Cause You're Important. And Your Safety Matters. 'Til Next Time Everyone, Be Safe Out There...