The social media industry is a cutthroat mistress in the gutter in the pursuit of money and It's a natural series of events that get played A classic story of this has been in the display last year or so. So why and how have these two podcasts that much drama? A little over a year ago content creator True he said on a live stream......It resulted radioactive to sponsors and made their public and PR cleanup disasters. However the biggest ripple felt was on their The Kick Off was a separate channel which premier league games. It was unlike any other football content on production and had a unique concept of having league clubs, offering varied perspectives, be. The show was hosted by True Geordie, Laurence, and a rotation of other football content creators.... So after True Geordie got "canceled" by and all the sponsors got pulled, the podcast distancing themselves from Geordie...... Adam Mckola stated "I was friends with Brian has been a bit confusing for me personally. He has since reached out which I appreciate. I genuinely don't think Brian is a bad person We all make mistakes at some point - the way been poor. Ultimately, I've made the decision to step One by one everyone distanced themselves from look out for themselves. However the cancellation happened just a few leading geordie to ask Laurence if he would cup, which he did.... After the the kick off returned on the 4th of January of guests. Most fans immediately felt that the kick off some fans feeling like it was a refreshing However a week later on the 18th of January kick off, it was announced that Rory, Adam titled "The Club'' which would become part Which is basically a podcast studio owned The following day after announcing the podcast The Club", it was essentially a trailer show, which to some fans sounded very similar The Club was a hit and gained well over 180,000 On the 22nd of January 2024 The Club podcast rank football podcasts and naturally a discussion about..... I think that's very unfair to say, considering argue that they had no idea who Buvy or Rory During this podcast viewers were left confused Mark Goldbridges podcasts which are some of kind of danced round the discussion of the One online commentator stated..... "Honestly guys I think either address straight don't mention it at all, this wink wink Since his time on The Kick Off, Laurence has documentaries, launching his own channel and On the 27th of February 2024 Laurence spoke ties with Brian, appearing on Mark Goldbridges Lawrence also noted in the interview that not giving the other members of the kick off Or as it's sometimes referred to as "a part owners and have voting rights in key Which you can understand would have probably perspective. And how a lot of youtuber media companies The bigger the company scales, people involved This then led Goldbridge to mention that if Kick Off it would have been lights out numbers space. You see at one point in time Mark's "That's very similar viewership for key premier league would have absolutely knocked any other show Yeah the show had problems like yelling over to time but I honestly believe that had the really knock on the door and disrupt some Some people may be outraged when I say that because no one was bringing that level of world outside of major media companies. But that's a lot of if, buts and maybes Mark continued by bringing up a very good process is just a kick in the balls, on top of the disappearance of the kick off.... While in social media and business it's to look out for themselves, It is astonishing because of attempted cancellation or a joke. Granted a very bad joke that is very hurtful I'm not excusing what he said. But if you're really boys and business partners them on what they said, apologize, educate in the process. But Social media doesn't work like that, themselves from the person accused and be of social currency or good will. Continuing on, Laurence revealed that he no hold any grudges, but doesn't see himself year chapter came to a close. However when asked if Lawrence thought there and kept the original kick off going, he stated that a big part of it was not having an exit It's quite perplexing what you can and can't on what you label yourself as, would True of backlash if he was labeled as a "comedian"? I'm not so convinced. But as Laurence said they drank from to look for more, there wasn't any left. It's easy to sit back and say they should but at the end of the day with anything online really happening or going on behind the scenes, Football content these days is literally about in order to get views and create a perfect short form clip from the original podcast, a bit fickle.