[Music] I listen to the where I'll end up well I think only God yeah yeah yeah welcome back to the channel. I'm always, I learn the hard way so you don't have what Cat Stevens taught me. I'm talking about I owe Cat a debt of gratitude, especially for the as his Golden Era, 1970 to 73: Mona Bone Jakon, and Catch Bull at Four. I mean, not that his Chocolate Box and some later LPS aren't good, masterpieces. and there were four in a row. all AKA Yusuf Islam and to find out the three most all right Steven Dimitre Georgiou born July 21, the first 10 years of his career, and later as 1977. and now he goes by the hybrid of Yusuf Roll Hall of Fame in 2014. He's one of the over a 100 million records. and he's racked up he has over 10 million monthly listeners on I mean clearly something about Cat Stevens' music Cat's early stripped-down singer-songwriter era Dave bought Tea for the Tillerman right when it I started guitar. and both of my brothers, Dave so one of the great things about the songs on Tea so you know beginning guitarists can actually play just a few years, were able to listen. they could and then I'd find their chord sheets lying around Children Play and Wild World and Father and Son. &quot;well I think it's fine building jumbo planes&quot; on etc on Wild World and G and C on Father and Son. I can definitely learn these songs. and thanks to the Tillerman, the main instruments were acoustic so Cat's Music and instrumentation kind of felt and I just loved that simplicity, cuz these were you know, deep and meaningful lyrics, but all same tools that I had even as a new guitarist. so play the songs, I could sing them, and I thought, if I try hard enough. so Cat lesson number one: a LPS just projected authenticity right? there listener. it was just direct and pure music and we're changing day to day, but [Music] now that I've lost everything to you, you say you my heart you're leaving, baby I'm grieving, but like you are now and I know that it's not easy take your time, think a lot, think of everything but your dreams [Music] may not so I love Tea for bought for myself was Teaser and the Firecat, and it only had 10 songs, just over 30 minutes of there was The Wind, which was this pure message, I listen to the wind to the wind of well I think only God really knows I sat upon the setting sun, but never never never never. I never never. Rubylove, built on that exotic and was in 7/8 time. super cool. If I Laugh, which it was one of the prettiest guitar parts I've lets these drone strings ring out like when he it's all so easy because it's [Music] E it's just arpeggios simple close as Cat ever got to real Rock[Music] yeah yeah [Music] yeah yeah yeah yeah don't you feel a change is Tell You, classic love song. Tuesday's Dead, which gorgeous hymn that he arranged. and you may not by Rick Wakeman, who joined the progressive rock and of course Moonshadow and Peace Train, both I'm being followed by a moonshadow moonshadow my plow, lose my land, if I ever lose my [Music] the Firecat sounds like a greatest hits album the Cat lesson two: two acoustic guitars are better taught me, and as a self-taught guitarist, Cat but very practical, playing techniques and chord on Cat's co-guitarist. he was a session player, one of Cat's arrangements, it's the interplay that make them sound so special. I mean the two of glisten. so this is a great example of what I so more on that right up here. so those records something unique and where the layering of the two relatively simple guitar parts. I mean, if you and he lets the chord ring, and Alun adds does those simple notes right that comment are having a dialogue and that foreshadows the song. I mean it's really perfect. so Cat and developed a formula where Cat usually played usually pretty standard chords down in first Alun played a complimentary part, sometimes always using a capo. so he'd usually have a capo playing different chord shapes at different beautiful blend. I mean check out this 1971 live so if you try to play along with Cat's he often switched between strumming with a some people actually call this Cat's then he flips the pick and squeezes it he can fingerpick with his thumb and index I won't have to talk cat switched back and forth between which later got labeled a J-180 and a Gibson Epiphone Frontier with the huge pickguard. so back is playing down in the first position he's playing and he's playing A right, but that's a D, but A E D E A and of course that's really D and A [Music] so on the original albums, Cat and Alun's guitars the stereo field. sometimes they were right on clearly what each of them plays, you can check out Tea for the Tillerman. those include 2020 remixes it's really cool to hear and helpful if you to a second to acknowledge and congratulate Cat and guys are still playing and singing together today, Mona Bone Jakon. when Cat tours, Aun goes with a great resource for guitarists and really any Cat a guitar research project. and it has tabs for a lot of fascinating details. find a link in the aim high and go deep. I mean so many of Cat's living in the confusion of the world, but seeking meaningful, right? and there's a reason for that you know a lot of Americans and younger Brits a teen Idol in the UK and Europe from 1966 to it actually broke into the top 30 in the UK. and the way to number two. and I'm Gonna Get Me a Gun Son hit number seven on the UK album chart. so it Mike Hurst, pretty typical of pop albums in the horns, the whole shebang. Cat says Hurst was but those arrangements sound dated now. now Cat's called New Masters and it came out in December actually okay with that because he wanted out overproduced bandwagon and move into Folk-Rock. Tim Hardin, Van Morrison, etc. so it's a little one of Cat's most popular songs: The First Cut is cover by PP Arnold became a top 20 hit in the UK. version from the late 70s. that was a number one the early 2000s. that broke into the Billboard Alternative chart. all right so going back to already a pop star and a hit songwriter. but then nearly dies. I mean literally spends months in the and during that time, he got self-reflective &quot;to go from the show business environment and and day out, and people around you are dying, it thinking about myself. it seemed almost as if his eyes involved physical and spiritual practices he got into yoga, meditation, he did a lot of and it was during that initial period, you know, awakening, that he wrote somewhere between 30 and his upcoming folk rock albums you know the four Teaser and the Firecat and Catch Bull at Four. a combination of world-weariness, questioning just think of the titles right: I Think I See Miles from Nowhere, But I Might Die Tonight, On Keep It In, O Caritas, you know, so many others. was ultimately a positive turning point for production got simple and pure. so how did that Cat to Chris Blackwell, who owned a then-new and Blackwell heard Cat's demos and was willing recordings. and then Krost also recommended a new had been the bass player for the Yardbirds. so he Jimmy Page. he left the band to become a record first Renaissance album, 1969, and he loved it. Cat Stevens is really some of my favorite described Samwell-Smith's production by saying that. Samwell-Smith was also the music producer and Maude in 1971. I discovered the movie sometime and the soundtrack was all remixed versions Tillerman, plus two unreleased songs that were and playing the guitar. Don't Be Shy and If just let your feelings roll on by. don't wear fear you're there, you're there, you're there, you're those songs wouldn't get released on record I paid to see the movie twice and smuggled a tape soundtrack. so I was able to learn and play those finally came out on an LP called Footsteps in 80s. as a Cat fan today, you're lucky, I mean came out a couple years ago, 27 tracks. so you before I go. during 71 and 72, Paul Samwell-Smith and Anticipation, Carly Simon's album, and Cat about 7 months. a lot of people don't realize that go on a date with Cat. Legend In Your Own Time, Carly. so there's a little Folk-Rock lore for Subscribe and hit the bell while I recap me. Lesson one: a simple song can be a great better than one. especially the magic of pairing a capoed up using different hand positions. and I mean that's really the rule for all the best standard for elegant simplicity in Folk-Rock, you but using simple chords and melodies, and chills when I hear Cat's voice and guitar launch I realize what an impact his music had on Over The Line, was all originals, produced with big Cat fan. Over The Line came out in 1980. that temporarily retired from music. we didn't know if and Alun Davies' influence in the layered acoustic right. check out the intro to my song Talk of the those intros are kind of like siblings. so to me and lots of other singer-songwriters. GuitarDiscoveries.com for over 200 videos other musical topics. you can support me and the music. you've got a Patreon link over there,