Hello, do you have poor circulation? Do you know someone who has this problem? Is anyone in your family suffering from this? Today we are going to talk about poor circulation. Let's make a very complete video, talk about all the problems related to this, how to treat them. We are going to talk about the symptoms of this silent disease, which is only growing in the population. The population is living longer and vascular problems are also appearing more frequently. Is it possible to clean the arteries? Or is it possible to make the veins work again? What do we have to do to achieve this? We will talk about this subject here. Well, that's today's topic and we're going to the end, I'm also going to tell you the six foods that you have to avoid anyway and the seven main factors that worsen your poor circulation and what you can do do to improve and everything naturally. Today you will learn how to free your vessels and what to do to avoid clogging them again. But stay there, leave us a thumbs up, we only survive because of the thumbs up, the comments. I want to know what you're thinking. Subscribe to our channel, we release health tips here almost daily, so don't miss out on this quality information. Share this video with your family, with your friends who you love and tell me, write below, I want to know if you have poor circulation or if you are just here to prevent a problem in the future. Does someone in your family have it and are you worried about how to avoid it? I also want to know where you are from, where in Brazil or where in the world. I see a lot of people commenting here and often I don't even know where they are talking about. Write down below, I read all the comments, I can't respond to everyone, but I get ideas for future videos from there too. Guys, the vascular system, our circulation is incredible. Okay, I'm a vascular surgeon, I'm suspicious of speaking, I really like this subject, but we have more or less 97 thousand kilometers of vessels in our body. So if we take the arteries, the veins, the capillaries, place them next to each other, it would be enough to go around the earth two and a half times, just to give you an idea of the number of vessels that pass through all our organs, irrigating, taking oxygen and then bringing it back. With all this, you can imagine that everything is fine, we can have a lesion of a few centimeters in those 97 thousand kilometers and there will be very good collateral circulation, still irrigating. And yes, this collateral circulation is extremely important because it keeps us, our lives, much of our lives asymptomatic. So the disease grows little by little, slowly, and by the time it starts to show symptoms, it's already too late. So we have to understand that in the circulation, we have arteries that carry oxygenated blood to the organs, to the periphery, and there are veins that bring the blood back to the circulation. The capillaries will connect the arteries and veins, and we also have lymphatic vessels, which will bring all the toxins from our body. The correct functioning of our circulation is fundamental to our life. We don't spend even a second, two seconds with our circulation stopped. If that happened, the coagulation cascade would already be triggered, it would turn into a thrombus, a clot, it would clog everything. So it's continuous, right? Our circulation, while we are alive, is working. Now, our vessels have a low capacity for regeneration, they can even recover from an injury, but a scar remains, and often these scars on the vessel themselves can trigger an injury. For example, venous insufficiency, due to damage to the valve walls, due to scarring after a thrombosis. All this because of the scar on the valves. So the ideal is for us to avoid trauma to the circulation rather than trying to recover. And this damage to the vessels can happen due to anything. It can happen due to an infection, for example, it can happen due to trauma. So you could have an injury, an accident, something that damaged the muscle, skin, but a vessel is passing through there, you will also suffer. Ah, but nothing happened, the blood is coming up ahead, exactly because of this collateral circulation. So if we have an injury to a vessel, those 97 thousand kilometers there, the blood will travel through another vessel because it cannot stop. So, in addition to infection, trauma, our genetics can also damage the vessel wall. And the most common disease of all, which is also damage to the arterial wall, is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis slowly obstructs this circulation until, at a final point there, no more blood passes, there is no more collateral circulation, it goes into ischemia gangrene, which is the tissue dies, turns black, and then it leads to amputation. So, just so you can see how serious a circulatory problem is, which is why we have to prevent it and not cure it. So the first risk factor, the main one, I have a whole video talking about it, so important is it, is smoking. So, anyone who smokes, you already know, has to stop smoking, because tobacco, nicotine and all those hundreds of substances found in cigarettes, they damage the matrix of the cell wall, slowly causing oxidative stress in this wall, damage that will lead to atherosclerosis, plaque formation, up to complete occlusion. It's the main risk factor that we have to remove, and to stop smoking you don't need surgery or medication, you do need willpower and understanding that this is doing a lot of harm to your health. The second risk factor is a sedentary lifestyle. So, staying still for a long time, not moving, being sedentary will lead to obesity, which is the other risk factor. We need to move, we need to put our muscles to work. When we are contracting the muscles, it, in quotation marks, recruits more of those vessels and we make that collateral circulation work a lot, we irrigate a lot, and in addition, when contracting, we are pumping blood back to the heart. So it is indisputable that physical exercise and movement are essential in improving your circulation. Now obesity is also a very important risk factor. Obesity itself, especially visceral fat, is inflammatory, and this inflammation, this chronic stress, is what causes the same damage to the vessel wall. However, obesity is normally also linked to a sedentary lifestyle, low use of muscle contraction, does not return blood, and ends up leading to arterial problems, lymphatic problems and venous problems. Obesity has already been directly linked to lymphatic, venous and arterial problems. Now chronic stress is the fourth risk factor. Oxidative stress is derived from chronic stress. So we can be stressed at work, we can be stressed at home, and all of this can trigger our oxidative stress process with damage to the vascular wall. It's slow, it's not fast, it's not a peak of acute stress that will trigger an arterial occlusion, but slowly, throughout life, it will deposit inflammation in the vessel wall, which will cause the formation of the atherosclerotic plaque. The fifth factor is low RG. What is low RG? It's age. Age comes, it comes for everyone, and we don't have much to do with this factor, no. We just have to be aware that it exists, and that, for example, if you have a genetic problem, the longer you live, the longer you will be exposed to this genetic problem. Now, if you have another disease and are living, with each passing day, you are also exposed to this disease for longer. Same thing with risk factors. So if you smoke, you are exposing yourself to the harmful effects of smoking for longer . So age is a worsening factor for most circulatory problems. Another super simple factor, which I already talked about here on the channel, is the other factor that also triggers oxidative stress, is sleep. We need to sleep well. If we don't sleep well, we get stressed, we get tired. So we have to solve this with all sleep hygiene measures. There's no point in arriving at night agitated trying to sleep. The sleeping process has to start before, you have to turn off the lights, you have to reduce environmental stimuli, avoid coffee beforehand. I talk about all these tips in our video about dog hygiene. sleep. And the other factor is alcohol. And alcohol is a little more complicated, because alcohol in small doses can cause even a small vasodilation. In larger doses, in more chronic doses, damage and plaque deposition also occur due to the stress generated by this toxicant. It is a toxic substance in our body. So you see, the problem of poor circulation is very serious, because if we don't do anything, the end is amputation. So I'm going to talk about several prophylactic measures here, what you can do to avoid a problem of poor circulation, so that you stay well for the rest of your life. Let's talk a little about erizipela. Anyone who has had erysipelas, the infection, has already had damage to the lymphatic vessels in the affected leg. That leg will be more prone to other infections, other rashes, and possibly even more swelling. So you have to take local care, you have to take care of your skin, you have to look between your toes, you have to check if there are any wounds, you have to always be aware of something that could be hurting your foot. This also applies to those who have diabetes. Anyone who has diabetes has a microcirculation problem. And all local care for the foot aims to prevent it from progressing to an ulcer, to wet gangrene, which would be an infection of the limb. So be very careful, take care of your feet, dry them very well. And if you can't see very well, because age often gets in the way, ask someone to check your feet periodically. Another thing you can do, very simple, is to get your diet right. I know it's very difficult, with everyone talking about diet, diet X, diet Y, diet Z, which one I have to follow, which one is best for me. Basically, in your diet, you have to remove what generates oxidative stress, which generates inflammation. If you want the diet for something else, such as losing weight, you can look for other diets, but at least remove the most inflammatory foods. The most inflammatory of all are those white powders that I keep talking about. So sugar, salt, wheat, gluten. These are foods that generate inflammation very easily and very frequently. When I say getting your diet right, it doesn't have to be radically changing everything overnight. No, it's a process, so it's not a diet, it's dietary re-education. Another activity you can do to improve your circulation, I also keep saying this here on the channel, is physical exercise. The physical exercise you like. It's hard to do something you don't like. And many people think they are sedentary and will become a marathon runner overnight. No way, this is a slow and gradual process, otherwise you will end up injuring yourself and then not exercising at all. Start with light walks, it could be a walk around the block, then take two walks around the block, increase slowly and gradually, walking helps a lot. Exercises in water are also extremely healthy, they improve lymphatic return and improve venous return. Even though not everyone can exercise in the water, walking is easily available to everyone. Just get up, go to the door, open it and leave. Take a walk or go to work, park the car a few blocks away, start walking a little, avoid the elevator, take the stairs, go up two flights instead of taking the elevator for anything. All of this already helps to increase daily activity and reduce a sedentary lifestyle. Now something that everyone thinks will help with circulation, and it's not quite like that, you have to be very careful, is elastic stockings. I see people saying, oh, I'm going to put on elastic stockings because of the circulation. It's not quite like that folks, because elastic stockings can help with venous problems and lymphatic problems, but with arterial problems they can even make it worse. Therefore, it is extremely important to have your problem diagnosed by a vascular surgeon. If you have trouble getting blood to the tips of your toes and you put on an elastic stocking, you could be making your situation worse. And another super simple thing to do, which helps a lot with vascular health, is to drink plenty of water, stay hydrated. That It is fundamental, after all our blood, most of our blood is water, it is liquid, we have to have a lot of water, otherwise it starts to become more viscous, the risk of clot formation starts to increase. And look, I'll tell you, it's very common for people to come to the office and say, no, I drink a lot of water, and then I do the biimpedance test, I see that you're completely dehydrated. I myself had to have a kidney stone removed and I thought I was drinking too much water, I like water and I thought I was drinking water, but I wasn't drinking enough, so we have to be aware of that. Write down how many glasses you are drinking per day, do this for a week, then you will have an idea of how much you are drinking. I'm sure you'll be surprised, it will be less than you thought. I'll put a link below in the description to a calculator that can help you with this. Now let's talk a little about the symptoms of poor circulation, this silent problem, right? Silent why? Because most of life is asymptomatic, atherosclerosis, plaque, obstruction of an artery, at the end of the problem it is easy to identify, then the leg turns black, gangrene, ischemia, then it goes to amputation, there is not much that can be done . But what happened before? Before, there was a period of lameness, the person had to stop because of the pain, they started walking, stopped because of the pain and then started walking again, this is the lameness. But before the lameness there was what the books call prodromes, prodromes are strange signs, it's discomfort in the leg, a strange complaint in the leg, something not so well defined. And before that I didn't feel anything at all, and that's most of life, because when you have a small injury to your artery, you won't feel anything. The point is that when there is a small injury on the leg, the person is not very concerned about prophylaxis, they are not watching this video here. Many times this video will only appear when the injury has already occurred, and by then it is difficult to reverse. That's why it's important to share this information with people before you have the problem. So grab the link and send it to the family group. Now swelling is another symptom that can occur and helps a lot to differentiate arterial problems from venous problems. When it is swollen, it is very rare for it to be a problem with the arteries, when it is swollen it is either a venous problem or a lymphatic problem. So if you have pain, swelling, a feeling of heaviness, tiredness, you have to stop because of pain, these are all advanced symptoms of a circulation problem and you should have seen a vascular surgeon. It may often be necessary to use medications, medications that can thin the blood, or medications to lower cholesterol, or medications that will try to stabilize this disease in the vessel, or even symptomatic medications, if the symptoms are too bothersome. . In some cases, surgery may be necessary, which is why a vascular surgeon is the best option to evaluate poor circulation. Among venous problems, varicose veins, there are several surgical procedures, including laser, radiofrequency, even microsurgery or traditional surgery, sclerotherapy, these are all procedures that the doctor has to perform. So I always recommend monitoring by a specialist. Unfortunately, it is not possible to reverse the damage that has already occurred in a vessel, in an artery, in a vein. And the problem is that the scarring of this damage can also cause other problems. Now you have to know that by adopting a healthy lifestyle, you can improve all these symptoms. So by improving exercise, diet, hydration and everything else, you can reduce these symptoms and you may not regenerate, but you can stabilize the injury and that's enough. Because a vascular lesion is stabilized, it will not progress to the final stages of the disease. And by doing all this, you improve your general health, reduce tiredness, fatigue, have more energy, more energy and also improve your quality of life. I hope you enjoyed this video, so help us by subscribing to the channel, Share with your friends, click the thumbs up below if you liked our video, leave a comment below about what you want to watch in the next video. And I'll see you in the next video. Until later!