1819. The newly-born United States of America 11 free states, 11 slave states. From the harmony. Equal states, equal representation, was only from the outside looking in. In reality, Instead, all that mattered now, was expansion... Manifest Destiny - that was the reason why on snagging more and more territory. Although mid-1800s, the belief held by many Americans westward as far as can be, drove the U.S. Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Georgia, Carolina, New Hampshire, Virginia, New York, Tennessee, Ohio, Louisiana, Indiana, Mississippi, of the United States thus far as of 1819, In 1818, the Missouri Territory, previously began its push for statehood. The following to break off from Massachusetts and do the a conundrum for the contemporary U.S., however, the potential to upset the numerical balance one hand, Northerners and pro-abolitionists - which seemed to quickly lean toward wanting and thus bring them further away from their The Southerners, though, were obviously in argued that any new candidate for statehood just as the first 13 colonies, which side in both the House of Representatives and the point Maine was now brought into the mix as time, suggested that Missouri should be added should also be added, contrarily as a free This proposal was subsequently debated into added to the bill, requiring that any other line that had been agreed upon below Missouri's free states. With everyone finally in some was signed into law. This triggered a tit-for-tat war of adding and vice versa, starting with Arkansas in in 1845. And since Florida was a slave state, enter the union and statehood would be another when Texas had a demanding request for the The history of Texas had been a rollercoaster for its biggest climb yet. Texas, up until from the grip of the Spaniards, wanted to pleas were initially ignored by the U.S. government, nearby territory. With growing pressure from Britain for Texas undeniable thirst for expansion, opinions in fact, join the union on December 29, 1845. be a slave state, which would offset the balance Furthermore, Texas had made claims to territories host of Mexico. And with Texas newly a part of the United the responsibility of the U.S. - something Recently elected President James K. Polk, thought. Instead, he was an aggressive supporter hoped to seize the contested territories. his desired lands. He sent American diplomat John Slidell to million in exchange for California, New Mexico, The Mexicans, aghast and unshakeably against which angered Polk. The Manifest Destiny supporter instead decided that, if diplomacy wouldn't he knew the United States would win. As a sent American troops to the Texas border to took a few months for Mexican soldiers to to declare war... With the Mexican-American War underway, debates to the slave state vs. free state debacle. Northerners felt that Polk, being a Southerner grab in order to further bolster the slave tensions. Still, the war raged on with now-famed E. Lee showing their prowess and adding to to Mexico's capital. The city was eventually Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo - which now forced in California and New Mexico but also lands Colorado, and Wyoming. Polk had gotten his and rainbows. New land meant more to fight Over the next few years, Iowa, Wisconsin, statehood, eventually bringing about the Compromise a multitude of things, though mostly focused In short, it determined that California would to send one pro-slavery senator to the Senate From now on, however, slave or free states Mexico would be decided as such by popular This went alright at first, as would the admission in 1859, but predictably, there was simultaneously As part of the new establishment of popular applying the strategy to a proposed newly once repeal the Missouri Compromise slave-state two. Now, despite a struggle to actually pass Kansas-Nebraska Act, the populations of both wished to permit slavery or not. The consequence settlers began flooding to both Nebraska and debate. This slippery slope ushered in a tragic eventually see Kansas enter the union in 1861, be the final state admitted to the union before Why did things get to this point? How could with itself so fast? Why were the North and The issue of slavery and thus the North vs. cultural aspects of the two halves of America. as the upper states had quickly become industrialized manpower. This gave Northern citizens the opportunity of the entire institution of slavery, prompting the ideas of European immigrants who had come these Northerners began to turn toward abolitionism. Americans down south, of course, but this as the North had. Instead, Southerners were more economically the like, which meant that their personal affected by the banning of slavery - thus the moral aspect a second thought - though And with the invention of the cotton gin, South needed slavery. The problem then arose to extend slavery even further, whereas the take the slaves they already had. Both, ironically, away from reconciling this difference. Debatably, there was also the issue of federal hard to blame entirely. Not only did the later-formed system for a collection of states who were but there had also been previous opportunities, few decades prior, for the South to go to of a ruckus if state rights were the core at the time, particularly in the south, had a whole, and state vs. federal disconnect even if second fiddle to the slavery argument. The fanning of the flames, however, came from Slave Act, for example, had been part of the as it had made the federal government responsible slaves and anyone who aided them - even if With the Northerners deeply troubled by this the upper United States would soon form their - the Republican Party. This new entity would also become host to after its birth. Lincoln had previously served on the U.S. the Republicans and running for Senate a decade Stephen Douglas, the series of speeches and catapulted him to popularity in the North in the South. His mere existence as a political tensions. But then, so did Bleeding Kansas. Guerilla warfare is one way that this period, While Nebraska was somewhat hit by the flood to sway the coming vote, it was Kansas that neighboring states used legal loopholes to elections, setting off a domino effect that violence. Historians estimate that anywhere from 50 the 4 years span, something akin to pouring fire burning toward Civil War. Charles Sumner's congressional speech about A Republican Northerner, Sumner had actually speech titled "The Crime Against Kansas" of slavery and even took direct jabs at pro-slavery This instance serves as a clear example of and Congress, as South Carolina Representatives to the damning speech by physically assaulting severely that he would need 3 full years of before one of the most controversial and anger-fueling war. It was the Dred Scott Case that soon put the the North and South into hyperdrive. The case name of Dred Scott. After the death of his by a man named John Emerson, and upon his transfered into the ownership of Emerson's had been brought along for travels across at no point had they attempted to run or sue ownership, Scott attempted to buy their freedom on keeping her slaves around, which led Dred of a lawsuit. They each filed on the basis of two Missouri Irene in St. Louis. One stated that any slave could not be returned to enslavement even allowed for anyone to file a suit for wrongful The Scott couple was given logistical support ironically, the family of their previous owner. This allowed them to actually take their case on a technicality but was given the option January of 1850 and this time, the Scotts quickly appealed the decision to the Missouri sided once more with Irene, thus re-enslaving Unwilling to give up now, Scott filed a federal for the District of Missouri the following Before the case could be decided upon again, brother, John Sandford, hence the name of the spring of 1854, the federal court ruled to appeal yet again, now to the United States This final trial would start on February 11, and even politician supporters in favor of later, a decision was made, and once more, And not only this, but the judge most notably named Roger Taney, asserted that no African in the federal court, because they lacked While the Scotts would already have their husband and the help of their old owner's for many abolitionists... John Brown has gone down in history as one and on October 16, 1859, he would prove exactly a group of fellow abolitionists launched what raid on Harper's Ferry. After taking several Armory and Arsenal, the raiders would be stalled made his way into the town to wrap things Brown and his men had aimed to spark a local raiders were killed once Lee and his Marines and later hanged for his acts of treason against and he had died, but his animosity for the to be turned by this point. With the election of anti-slavery Northerner enough was enough... Immediately after the future "Emancipator" General Assembly called for a convention to the locals, South Carolina thus voted unanimously later they issued a document justifying their important point in the process: "A geographical And it truly had. 10 more Southern states Confederate States of America, led by their president, Abraham Lincoln, refused to recognize he wished to take no one's slaves and simply nill to the Southerners, who were rapidly of a handful of states who had all made a that, but the South was at a major disadvantage Precise numbers are debated, but it can be and formation of the Confederacy, the Union in comparison to the South's approximate eventually enlist around 2 million soldiers 900,000. Furthermore, the Northerners had which was double what the Confederate states advantage for moving troops and supplies in And while its often argued that the Confederate Jackson, James Longstreet, Nathan Bedford a tactical military edge on their upstairs ways; like the fact that they produced around the time. But still, the Union was losing its grip on in Confederate states, and it was about to Fort Sumter was the last Union stronghold generous. It was outmanned and undersupplied, cracking down on Union property within their attempted to force the little remaining Union refused, and the Confederates opened fire.