I can sell this 0.2 billion in a year. And our reputation in the whole network has been to buy things Put it in the whole country I believe there is no squeeze Can do Only in our Nanyang have this practice It is rarely seen in the field. Our current goal is to go public within 5 years. Brothers. I am now in Zhengzhou City, Henan Province The food of Zhengzhou is also a wide variety A dazzling array Today, I will take you to see a Nanyang special rice noodle with sesame sauce. The whole process of making To fry this garlic until it becomes yellow To stir-fry the fragrance Fragrance fried You see, this level of frying is about the same It's yellow. It's yellow. Put this big stuff How many types are there? There are more than a dozen Then there is anise cinnamon These geraniums and the original skins are regular. There's no mess This will have to wait for him to fry this too. Then the fragrance comes out and you can put the pepper. Then this big material is to master the most important place Master this heat Fire is important. Put chili powder Bean sauce This is bean paste After this bean paste is put in Basically, I'm here to ask this oil temperature to remember for him. That smell. Oyster sauce is oyster sauce. We just use local materials This is our chicken soup Old hen soup Handsome boy, where did you get this skill? This craft was learned from the master. How many years have you been doing I didn't do this for a long time for ten years. But my master has been doing it for more than 40 years. This is in Nanyang. This is very famous. Wow Put so much salt, saozi It must be salty. salty to taste This is to remove the chicken Yes, yes, we'll break it up later. In the cooking just fried This is also placed in the rice noodle, huh Yes, if you meet that saozi It has meat in it Then we mix it with the scallion and ferment it. It smells better You now have more than 30 years after 39 years Because I am Turkish Even those who came back did not look for a job again. And then there were two friends We also want to do something together To start a business Because our Nanyang rice noodles are very, very famous And then we wanted to put Thinking about how to make this rice noodle bigger and stronger Now let's bake this. Then get him out first This peanut is our sesame paste Is sesame paste used for grinding sesame paste? Yes, I think your peanut seems to have burnt out a little. Peanuts without sesame sauce are like this. And then that's how it will come out more fragrant. If it is heavier, it will burn. Then it is lighter It comes out this scent We this is not only to rush Then I still need to add some clove powder to it. It does not dominate This scent is just a little bit of that aroma. Then you made this sauce on the same day. Just do it now every day. Then come every morning The first thing we do is beat this sauce Beat this sesame sauce Then let's make it enough for today. Then wait a minute, we'll just stir it up again. Then use chicken soup It needs to be processed. Yes, it needs to be processed again. This pot is chicken soup Ah, this is the kind of hen that old hen has been for 3 years. In this case, the soup is full of flavor. It's more tasty. Wait, we're gonna take this chicken And then just tear it off Then you can make this chicken shreds. Beautiful women are specially used to wrap rice noodles there. Ah, rice noodle You divide this bag into a bowl, right Ah ah pike 200 grams ah This is 4242 A bowl to eat 65 two sesame sauce rice noodles Dad's in the fridge What else do you like to drink in this one here? 65 yuan 65. 65. Ah, this needs to be blown up. To control its moisture This fried should have the kind of crispy taste Yes, it tastes chewy. That's how I was taught by my master. I also do this It is equivalent to inheritance This has always been the case How far will this blow up? To be fried to golden Although I did ten years But I can sell this 0.2 billion in a year. Two in a row. Our word-of-mouth scores are full marks in the whole network. Always keep full marks You can say that Few in the country can do this. This is a little golden And then hairspray It will be out of the pot soon. That's good. This looks a bit like that meat floss Meat floss After this bombing. His first is this soft and crisp taste. Take the big stuff we just cooked. Then put it together and boil it again. This is a traditional craft Pay attention to this process The process is more troublesome What is this plus? This is red oil. This is monosodium glutamate. Sprinkle some salt Finish Then the water boils We're going to put this shredded chicken in it and oil it. is to remove the moisture from it Then the crisp chicken shreds and put it in this soup Just like that steamed bun When it goes in, it will absorb the whole smell of saozi. Taste ah so that it becomes very tasty To this relatively viscous state It proves that the shredded chicken absorbs the soup too well. In this way, even if we can get out of the pot Handsome boy, what are you doing This is the fried soil pine flower This is in Nanyang, our hometown. It's what you need for soup and cooking. This is also one of the souls of our rice noodles Only in our Nanyang have this practice Field words are rarely seen How long will this take? You can probably blow it up. Hybridization takes more than 20 minutes This is almost Almost Celery Peanut Milk Cover Powder shallot flower Sesame Sauce Shredded chicken with sesame oil Is it still 64? No. 64, please wait How do we sell this rice noodle now 13 yuan a bowl 13 a bowl. Right That regardless of the size of the bowl oh Yes, regardless of the size of the bowl Give me two more meat buns. Two steamed buns with meat This is Nanyang's special sesame paste rice noodles His rice noodles are the kind of thin rice noodles We also ate a lot of rice noodles from all over the country. You are like rice noodles in Xuzhou We have all eaten rice noodles in Yunnan But this is another flavor. It smells like you can smell the thick sesame sauce. Take a bite first Can't fight 26 Here comes the gluten with sesame sauce This is also a feature of his family. He has no spicy taste in this one. It tastes like the rice noodles we used to eat in Xuzhou. It is not the same His kind is more refreshing When you eat it in your mouth, it is full of the smell of sesame paste. And obviously can eat that kind of ah It's the flavor in the scallion oil noodles we used to eat. It's the smell of Pusong Special incense Er, OK, thank you I also want two steamed buns with meat He has sold this meat bun for nine dollars now. Let me take a look. Wow There's a lot of meat in here. very crispy He had green peppers in it. So not only the smell of meat And the fragrance of green pepper Roujiamo with rice noodles Also, there is no spicy taste in this rice noodle. Add some chili powder Mahjong Gluten thick sesame sauce flavor and then sandwich this spicy wow, this is delicious I eat sweaty This taste is really good In fact, business is not so difficult You see I'm in Jinan A small shop with dozens of square meters at the beginning. Now I have seven stores. As long as you are willing to bear hardships and stand hard work Then taste good grasp Do a good job in the service of the shop Naturally, there are repeat customers. In fact, our production process is very simple There's nothing to keep secret You can shoot it if you like. I can also be public. What kind of oil are you, handsome boy? This is our own mixed oil I think it's a little red in here. Is there chili oil? chili oil rapeseed oil Soybean Oil Mixed Pair Mixed current oil temperature up and down this is prickly ash This is the pepper we swam directly from Sichuan. I think you have two different colors in it. Zanthoxylum and hemp pepper And chili noodles The chili powder is perfumed this chili powder is not spicy It's not spicy either Yes, there will be spicy later. Jinan should be the city that likes to eat hot pot most in the country. Sichuan is the birthplace of hot pot This is definitely true But Jinan people still prefer to eat spicy pot This is bean paste How many years have you been doing this Look, this industry has been working for 67 years. Then I did catering for 15 6 years. When I was a child, I didn't go to school. Then I made catering very early. I have 30 today. 33. After the first batch of 90 We'll have our own base material later. The bottom material is also right The primer takes a long time. This is the base material, right This is the base material we made in advance. mixed with this chili oil Yes, like how many kilos of oil do you have to boil this day? I this kind of pot words Boil five or six pots a day Because there are six or seven stores Use this material at the same time. You 've been cooking with this little pot, huh Yes, always use a small pot. Because this little pot He is we have been very precise It's bright. And then, the taste The scent we have worn very light Cauldron is not well mastered At the beginning, we made a small shop. There is a forty-fifty square Just because it tastes good Word of mouth It has been done for one and a half years. We 've opened two or three more branches. Then there are six or seven stores now. That's like your six or seven stores. How much has been done at the highest of the day 60 thousands or 70 thousands yuan A 60 thousands or 70 thousands pair. 60 thousands or 70 thousands yuan a day wow This is also great. There's nothing hard These things are the real thing Grasp the taste Clean health is actually very simple This house is your own house, huh Yes, this is our own old home. Then you have to demolish it. Can be rich Also nothing rich I didn't leave the five suites before. I haven't changed it yet How much is the house price in Jinan now This way, it is about 15000 6 I think your five suites are worth 10 million. Oh, no, no, no, ha ha This will be good Can be poured into the pot This is almost Delivered to each store This is the usual beef in our shop. This beef is beef beef melon fried meat We bought this beef at the market for 45 yuan. Now we'll start to brew it in pieces and marinate it. It's kind of like that steak meat, huh Yeah, that's it. If it's cut like this Cut it off and pickle it directly. It's a whole steak. is the steak is the steak We just cut it small cut it small A lot of people think it's not good meat. Have you seen this flake? Put it on the stick Many people think that you bought minced meat. Impossible, impossible at all. Our shop buys fresh meat slices in the local market every day. Then why don't you use the machine money? Machine fresh You see, the last edges and corners are all broken. This meat is expensive. We finally have to fix After repairing this meat, it will cost more than 60 yuan. This is pickled Yes, this is pickled Now give it a massage Then taste to give compaction Just a little plastic wrap to wake up Begin to make hemp sauce This hemp sauce is one of the cores of our store. Sichuan, Chongqing, there is Sichuan pot When we come to the north, we need to wear a combination of pan and spicy sauce. Let's put the bottom of the southern red oil pan here. Plus hemp juice Not the same taste Now add this leek sauce Leek flowers are right This also smells good As soon as you put it in, you can smell the fragrance. this is oyster sauce This is raw smoke Maida Mei's fresh and less monosodium glutamate This is MSG. Do some more. This is sugar. It is also the most critical step in the fresh It's shrimp oil. This is the first time I have seen shrimp oil. This is pepper powder Sesame oil is also Titian Finally, add the pepper water we boiled to it. Even the pepper water is heavy, huh Yes, it's all in proportion. Otherwise, the hemp juice will taste different if it is thicker and sucks. We basically adjusted our mouths If you like it, especially like chili Or maybe coriander Chives Just add a little more yourself. If the pocket You can add some fermented bean curd The leek flower I was supposed to stir it up. Yeah. Right now, you can smell the fragrance here Can smell the thick sesame sauce It already smells. Stir until it bubbles Until the periphery blisters This sesame paste must be made by hand with a machine. The smell is not so strong. This material is what we cooked in the afternoon. We can hit the pot directly. This also requires a process. Then clear soup pot This is a jujube mandarin duck pot stewed mandarin duck pot Sheep and Goat Longan Then get some chili in the spicy pot. Waiting for the guests to come Add pointsWater is fine, huh Not water. We made our own chicken soup. Stock soup and soup on the pot can be These pots are all prepared in advance. Because the class is also more concentrated This is the kind of good one by one. It is estimated that it is a little too late to do it now. Ah, right. In fact, it can be done now. But not as good as this We work better Come to class directly Just go straight to the pot This is our own marinated spicy beef The strings in this are all your own processing. Yes, there are no semi-finished products. This chicken is also one of the four major signs of our family. The chicken sausage is made by ourselves. How do you sell fat sausage? Now the price of fat sausage is three dollars a string. Our store is to see the color of the color The blue one is three The red one is two pieces. The color of your signature is not the same, huh Yeah, you see something like this Even if it looks very big and standard We'll sell a dollar conscience business. How much does the vegetarian sell normally? Plain is a string of a dollar This is the outer waist Right, waist, outer waist. This is a whole outer waist, isn't it? The whole How much is this now? A 20-dollar green vegetable is free Each table is to send a handsome guy What is the average per capita consumption like yours? See if you eat meat or vegetarian. Like to eat meat It's about 200 dollars for two people. If you like vegetarian string You see, your plate is about 20 yuan. a few tens of dollars If two people are vegetarian Just get a little meat. That is to say, 60 or 70 yuan is very full. very good There were two handsome guys here last time They just prefer meat. Then a man came There are 13 bottles of beer Consumption is 500 or 600 yuan The malatang we had in Sichuan before This is the first time in Jinan to try the spicy hot water blue Is this beef? Put it inside for a perm. I like to eat this spicy Let's put some ironing on him first. Let's go make some juice. Have some of this sesame sauce This garlic must have chopped green onion Oyster sauce Have a look at some leek flowers Can eat This is my favorite sheep eyes Have friends who dare not eat? In fact, this sheep's eyes are very delicious. Dip the sauce One bite down is the feeling of bursting juice. His sesame sauce tastes very good. fragrant and fresh This is different from eating hot pot. This string is more fun to eat. This string in his house is divided into that color. Like this red one, it's two dollars. This is three dollars Blue There is also a kind of like this element This kind of dry is no color This is a dollar a string This is chicken It's obviously one of those chicken breasts. But he handles this chicken breast very well. Eat To the mouth surface is particularly tender Not a bit of firewood Where to eat Can't forget this, huh wow delicious His family has two characteristics One is that the bottom of this red oil pan tastes particularly good. Another one is this This can be said to be the inside of the seasoning I have eaten. It should be this one, especially delicious. It has a particularly good sense of atmosphere Three or five friends sit down and order a string. and drink some beer wow It's so cool And forget him, this is the bottom of the pot. it's 12 yuan It's a mandarin duck pot one side is spicy one side is not spicy Even if it's a vegetarian dish. Also can eat that kind of fragrant taste This white medicine should be fine This is good stuff very tender The noodles in your mouth are the same as that tender tofu. The owner of the store we came to today It's a young man after 90. There are now seven stores in Jinan. I think it is better than that of my peers. A lot of men look down on me Feel like I'm a little woman all day How to shout all day Less than 1 m 6 Less than 100 jin Can't do it But it turns out I now have four stores in Jinan My daily income can top his salary for a year's work. That's why women are tougher than men. Brothers. I am now in Jinan, Shandong I'll take you to eat one today. Today, the very hot little nurse fried string in Jinan Wow, this is all lamb, right? Ah, yes, this is all mutton blood. The neck goes out too dirty A total of several sheep were recorded today. I got four samples today. 2412344 sheep. Four lamb skewers lamb If you are busy. You can use seven or eight samples like holidays or when you are busy. Is summer the peak season? A single machine uses four sheep a day. This was delivered early this morning. If you look at this color, you can see that it is fresh. Goat must be used The little goat is delicious He didn't have that Shanxi flavor after he made it. The big sheep is not delicious It's absolutely good to make that ingredient in our house. You have to say that our food is not good. I'm sure I'll have to bleed him down. The neck lymph have to go After he ate it, dirty people are not good for everyone's health. The first thing I did just now was to marinate mutton. Then seven more. How many people are there in total? Plus my 12345 people Eight or nine people are busy in summer. We have more luck. People live quickly. You can't cut it alone. One person can wear at most 20kg of material. If you cut that piece He can't do it when he does it. You have to cut the slips Cut meat also has soy sauce This is chicken skin Chicken skin, ah, ah, what is this? This is also a string of elder sister How many years have you been doing this Ten dead wages. How much is it for a month? It's a dollar for ordinary 6000. Just get to the busy time just over 10000 yuan 10000 more than a month Ah, after that, this income can also be ah, ah, can it Change the wife of shop-owner's blessing ha ha Wife of shop-owner does not buckle Hey. Wife of shop-owner make it easy to get close to people. Ah, the root cause is not ready. This is called bacon, huh Start on ready to cut What a sport. Don't look at me so familiar In fact, the bones inside the long muscle Add so much exercise every day. Add the beauty How many years have you been doing this I 've been doing this for 11 years I 've received your craft. I didn't do this before I worked as a nurse from the hospital before. Add you Have you seen the plate? Also Forced to be helpless is not forced to be helpless Who doesn't want to mix more? Then your craft is also handed down from home. The one my father-in-law called My hands in education My mom had Through marriage for more than ten years We have lived together for four generations. Never been home live in a room Cousin bitter I this craft craftsman I have a family of 30 employees with me in this craft. In Jinan There are four stores in our city There are four stores now. Yeah, four stores. I came in Then you are also a well-established little rich woman in Jinan. Useless, useless, useless Not to that extent yet. We said the real work. We're mainly, uh, making real stuff. Because we are the Hui people We are more specialized in this beef and mutton. Like you this pot of meat ah How many eggs to put Put 20 eggs This is starch Ah, I see you this lake It seems a bit like the roast sheep in the Nang pit in Xinjiang. It feels different. He can't eat Xinjiang better than me. Don't say I delicious I'll eat and eat in Beijing It's still delicious in my family. Is this cumin powder? Yes, it is cumin powder It's not just cumin powder There are more than a dozen kinds of scallion oil piled together. This is also called Symmetry It also has an abstract What kind of water is added to this I thought rice wine Ha ha, this bacon is all your own motivation behavior. Ah, yes, I do my own development I'm going out there to study. I'll push the supporting role out to him in advance. Let him be in charge of the development You have so many workers Why not give it to the workers Definitely can't tell them It's a recipe thing not to sign this thing. I have to be a man Just do it with the one who kissed. First, make it bad. Can't do it It's mainly revenue. We still need to keep our own chips a little secret. Alas, our wife of shop-owner is very good. Such a small individual with more than 30 mouths Thirty or forty people opened four shops. 10 thousands or 20 thousands can you reach when you are busy on holidays? One store a day is 10 thousands or 20 thousands yuan a day. 18 yuan ten Then the meat tendon is ten strings Handsome guys also sell fried strings, huh How does this taste in his house? very good, very good Eat in the car. come to eat often Return customer fat cow ten string 24 This is all your own processing, huh For our own processing This is the big Aries Just Aries True Southern Words Sheep Egg You fried this in a pan of oil, huh Isn't it unhealthy to fry in the oil pan? How unhealthy The oil in our house is changed every day. Plus that ingredient is good Fresh You don't need this oil for one day. Yes, I don't need it for one day. All new oil. One day to change We have a lot of repeat customers. The child is still willing to accept your string It tastes tender You're going to say fried is unhealthy Baked is not healthy. It is charcoal smoked A shop here at home How many strings can you make in a day? It's just ordinary. Well, 6000 or 7000 bucks If you are busy on holidays, say Usually with money. What kind of oil do we use here? Soybean oil is soybean oil Yeah, how long is this gonna take? Well, it may be too old to fry for a few minutes. It won't bite when it gets old. This or something Cumin powder Cumin powder is like to eat chili Well, sprinkle some chili Do ingredients must pay attention to the original flavor Authentic Caicai is delicious Open another shop after the end of the year. Ha ha, it's awesome. It's awesome. I also mix food Ha ha ha ha ha When God's will comes Brother just out of the pot How about you taste it first? Here is blister packaging Tin paper packaging insulation In winter when we are cold We'll use this kind of insulation. We did the details very well. delicious again Brother Kang, okay, okay, okay Buy two of this Aries gas station commonly known as men in Jinan It's the sheep's outer waist. We sell eight dollars and eight dollars for the outer waist of the sheep. this is a string of eight yuan and eight yuan Eight dollars, eight one string, yeah This is basically not a big profit. How do you sell that mutton string and that meat tendon? The mutton skewers are three pieces The meat tendon is also three pieces But I have a set meal at the bottom. He wants a cheaper set meal. just ten sets Ten sets of groups should be cheaper. It smells good looking. As long as the average man points more Your family's business is so good Now give not to somebody else to join the door not to join Looking for me again today If I were to say it, I would hold up these ten shelves. Joined on joining. Let's talk about the whole thing. It's very fast. It's very tall and straight. But the brand hit very quickly. Then you are now these stores are directly operated, right Yes, they are all direct stores. What is the only disadvantage of the direct camp You just don't bother A little something We catch the ingredients We call the shots Once let join to somebody else's franchisee Let's just say No, forget it. When you just came in What is your smell in his room? Is it the smell of fragrance or the fragrance of ingredients This is the reason why our family business is hot Everything he has eaten is delicious. Today is Tuesday Not too busy Busy to say Do you think we are all on the 1st or 9th? Right. You know our clients make jokes to us Mom thought she was in the bathhouse. This bathhouse is only issued a number. You see very simple I didn't know that all the working sisters in our shop are in their 40 s. is very easy to operate Is it mainly the taste of pre-treatment Right, right, right. Early is I do Later is the injection Haven't done it yet Take a look, brothers. This is the very popular little nurse fried string in Jinan today. This is also exciting The big white waist is the sheep's outer waist. This string is now sold in his family for eight yuan and eight whole waists. His outer waist is just like that tofu in his mouth. particularly tender And then the thick scent of cumin and chili outside And he didn't bake it It's fried. Generally, things that are normally fried are more fragrant. This should be mutton string He'll eat it in his mouth That's a little more tender than the baked one. Then there is more juice in it. Normally, we baked it out of that charcoal. It'll be a bit drier But this is very tender This is a meat tendon Wow, there seems to be some reinforcement in this If the mouth is good Eat this or fragrant He's got this mutton string and meat tendons. Now they all sell for three dollars each. I think this string is quite big Wow, it smells good Beef Fish It's not easy Yin and Yang people But every day is placed at this intersection ah ah ah Give him some mutton fish Age is confused When I was young, I had to pull the sidelines. Mouth is still long Brothers. I am now in lankao county, Henan province Today, I will take you to eat a very famous lamb in Lankao. His house is in this alleyFace This one has soup. Ha, right Lao Lu, this is also Lao Lu Old stewed soup How many years has your ancestor used it? It has been used in a cycle. Water Feeding It has been used in a cycle. Basically not changed 40 yuan is about the same Four years, right? Wow. This is the standard worker. Right. This bucket is also inside, huh These three barrels are full of old bittern. It's all old bittern I'll add a basin of clean water later. Handsome boy, you should have been a little jar for years, right This little house is 10 years old. It looks like an antique. It's already wrapped in pulp. You didn't look Old Brine of Shrimp This is oil sheep oil on it. They make mutton buns on kang I want this oil. It's called Skimming Soup Oil Pair of skimming oil I think it's time to start work. it seems quite a lot They all use this Then you have this crystal sugar oil on top. is to sell them Some of them came to my house to buy Specially buy this mutton kang bun It was used inside. How much do you normally sell them? Two dollars You still have a sheep's head in it. Sheep head is sheep head goat head Local Goat Head This is the sheep head This sheep is bent is bent Break it apart The fried stuff in here I'm going to clean it up So much for a day six or seven So much for now the quality is not good My dad won't let me use it either. He's been calcium for over 40 years This is what my grandfather did at that time to do this kind of business. It's been passed down like this. It's equivalent to an ancestral craft. Yeah, we're ancestral I am the third generation. It's almost a hundred years old Do what we eat in this area Everything should be clean. strict control Strict requirements of their own health First I'll put these big ones into the pot first and put the sheep's head first. Yes, the sheep's head first. These are bigger. You still use this pot To the ground pot to burn wood fire There are not many such pots now. There are basically very few land pots. The pyrotechnic chicken we're talking about is in the firewood. He is over 60 years old this year. The beef is dead. What is this refrigerator? You don't have to weigh this either. Just grab it here, huh Using the tree. This is called Bai Kou White button wow Put so much Bucco Incense Duck flavor barbecue add more ingredients This is the lung. The lungs of sheep. sheep lung Look at the blood inside it. Everything needs to be soaked out. It's still with a sheep's heart on it. The heart of a sheep is the throat of a sheep Put the trachea over there. This is the original used material, right Right, right, old material This is the lamb's tail that meat doesn't leave us. It's all sheep's tail. The sheep's tail now prefers this sheep's tail. This sheep doesn't look right. Both are lambs. Lamb less than 1 year It should be less than a year. This part is the best to eat. Rib cover It's called sheep ribs This thick part is put in front The roll head on the lower face is relatively large. He cooked more slowly This thin one should be put in the back. You put the pot position is not the same The position of the pot is different How much mutton do you want to cook in a pot of three lamb pot meat now Three sheep a day. That's three meals a day. Limited to five o'clock out of the pot I'll be back at half past six It's just scorching Yeah, it's all big grains of salt. Because of this large grain of salt to cook mutton Salty enough The salt taste is also better boiled meat is more delicious How much meat to cook and how much salt to put is certain This has a proportional pair This is a sheep's belly I this delicious I like to eat sheep's belly and sheep's belly more delicious the taste is also quite good We need to give it a little pressure. It will take about an hour and a half now. Brothers, this scene of cooking mutton Have you seen Very grounded gas We have to wait an hour and a half We'll wait an hour and a half His sheep head is delicious Mutton is also delicious Eat often. Well, come here often Still have to wait a while I'll come back later This is going to be out of the pot, huh Pair out of the pot Now start to type out the big material on it first. Can I use this material next time? I can use it next time. The mutton is out of the pot This one looks like the little goat head. Sheep head, this is good, this is good This black sheep head There's a black sheep's head Auntie still buys sheep's head Sheep head with feet like to eat sheep head How to sell sheep head Now 31kg It is also the weight of 31kg Third brother, how much is your mutton now? 91kg liver and lung Liver and lung 31kg and sheep head a price It's the parents' pain. I'm afraid of breaking off my mouth. This flavored pig's trotter is still spicy and delicious. Still have a taste good taste good taste If it weren't for your old pot of soup. It is estimated that only this smell can be produced. Right. It's all about this old soup and this big sauce. Multiple blanking To be willing to put the material This is the lamb tripe right This is a sheep's belly leg of lamb? How do you sell the sheep's tail? It is also 31kg. It's the same as sheep's head, huh Handsome, where did you come from? The master who came from Zhengzhou specially from Zhengzhou Then you this meat It hasn't been sold yet. It's going down by 1/3. It's sold out as soon as you go out. Beef Fish How long can a car like this sell? Well, over an hour It was sold out in an hour. And like fish. Eyah Eyah Have some vinegar tofu Have some good food. This house is working. Come on, after 4:00. Flower wooden door car come to buy some for you Wow, this mutton smells good But I see that you seem to be regular customers here. They're all acquaintances, right? Over this piece of, uh... delicious, delicious I must have eaten before I have eaten this good dish with wine. Ah, like this, take it back How much wine can you drink? Can drink a kilo of wine Wow, awesome. It's three routes. Sanyang can make three dishes No food to eat It's very good not to eat food. Another one, it mainly needs to spend especially well. Then you were also yelled at by him That's it. I still smell good With a voice shouting It was sold out in an hour. This car is sometimes better It was sold out before it was launched. Handsome guys buy so much I bought a refrigerator. We buy sister-in-law Fit you? Pretend you 225 uncle You masculine and sheep's head are worth a dollar. Do you buy it in the morning or not There are too few species. This melon is not I don't have any Beef Fish Hey.