Thank you to Opera for supporting PBS. A few weeks ago the world's gravitational wild. The moderately confident detection of that presumably fills the cosmos, detected by signals from rapidly spinning cores of dead stars the gravitational wave background has probably The likely detection of the gravitational have gotten to this news item we did an episode on the slightly more detection is on firm footing and the basics have we can dig a little deeper. Today I want to gravitational wave background, and then more First up, let's take a moment to appreciate We started with a deceptively simple idea. And incidence of humanity named Albert Einstein. "For a man falling from the roof of a This became the equivalence principle, of weightlessness you have while falling is of gravity. And the feeling of heaviness stationary in a gravitational field. At least From the equivalence principle and one more all observers, an inevitable chain of reasoning which explains gravity as being due The equations of GR give us so much gravitational fields slow clocks and deflect and also predict that the fabric Gravitational waves were the last great prediction verified, and that happened only in 2016 when a pair of black holes spiraled together LIGO did this by measuring the literal stretching pair of ultra-precise rulers a few kilometers In the 8 years we've been doing this, we've from the final inspiral of pairs of black holes to a few tens of times the mass of the Sun. sensitive to these, because we knew there should Now as waves, gravitational waves will be sensitive to wavelengths that have a And inspiralling stellar corpses generate period times the speed of light--which is a few The larger the orbit the longer the produced by binary stellar mass black be visible to the Laser Interferometer km long arms of its laser-connected But there are also gravitational waves that device could hope to detect because we can't build the galaxy has obliged and provided us with a more clocks than rulers. Pulsars are rapidly jets sweep past the Earth, resulting in blips of regularity, sometimes several hundred times a millisecond pulsars, and they are the most precise But we wanted a ruler, not a clock. But with a clock becomes a ruler if we just measure the passes by the stream of incoming signals the space between those pulses. Measuring the gravitational wave. This can, in principle, But that's not what this new result is. Several watching dozens of pulsars for over 15 years using These pulsar timing arrays don't yet have a but essentially all these teams agree that their All of spacetime across the pulsar network, and probably across the universe, is a bit stochastic gravitational wave background--the very long wavelength gravitational waves that We don't know what creates the background epoch which kickstarted the Big Bang, or that. It could be cosmic string collisions in or the frolicking of galactic gigawhales in but we can hope. Most likely, however, this binary black holes. Although in this case, black holes seen by LIGO. We're probably by binary pairs of behemoth supermassive These SMBHs with masses of millions are close to my own heart as a researcher, we can learn about them, and I'm going to But first, let's start with an analogy to Take the surface of a still lake and very The expanding ripples are like the Now, instead of one pin-point spiral, stir I dunno, tree trunks or something, but much in a jumble of very low-frequency ripples This is similar to what the stochastic look like if it's caused by LIGO is tiny compared to the resulting spacetime degree by lightyears-long oscillation, But the relative distances to pulsars and so they should cause observable shifts in These ripples are messy--apparently random, or seeing gravitational waves? After all, there signal may change. Pulsar rotations rates time of their signals to us can be affected passing through a region of ionized gas slows the each pulsar individually, or at worst affect However, gravitational waves cause the pulse in ways that are correlated with each other. pairs of pulsars. Those signals could be traveling sky. They could be traveling to us from opposite traveling at right angles to each other. Or they Any given gravitational wave that makes up through the galaxy in some direction In some cases, that relative direction will same way--correlated, and in some cases they'll For example, you would get a correlated are surfing the same gravitational wave, or if a gravitational wave moving at right angles to shift if the pulsar signals are traveling way gravitational waves alternatively stretch The correlation or anticorrelation due to a single out from all the sources of noise. However, if you you expect to see a statistical correlation that'sthe amount of deviation from the very This is the Hellings-Downs curve. It's timing residuals for pairs of pulsars as Pulsars with little separation should be highly should be somewhat correlated. Pulsars with OK, so how are the real pulsars behaving? NANOgrav collaboration. This is for pulsars observed over 15 years. It's very NANOgrav claims that this is from 3.5 analysis used. That means it's not in that this apparent correlation could still have chance. But it's looking increasingly likely have been observed by other pulsar timing array Now we can start looking into what we learn But before we do that, let's pause for a moment to Remember that we started with a simple experience of someone falling off a all the way to an actual observation But spacetime ripples from what? I've been talking that's what the NANOgrav team thinks this is. The what you'd expect from many, many sources of low frequency, b) randomly distributed across preferred direction for the stretching and Any such population of sources should So why binary SMBHs? Well they do potentially we know they should exist. We know that every And we know that bigger galaxies are made from galaxies have bigger black holes. It only stands supermassive black holes out there, even if we Any other source of gravitational wave background like this is much more speculative--and we OK, so what does this signal tell us about The pulsar timing data contains more information about the frequencies of the underlying waves. outgoing gravitational wave is basically the rate see what different frequencies make up the jumbled learn something about those black hole orbits. together and eventually merge. For example, each other at a great distance, then there This is the NANOgrav frequency spectrum. strength of each frequency observed The dashed line is what we expect from holes grew and formed binary pairs over cosmic but there's a hint of difference compared to high frequency signal, or too little low frequency the latter could be due to the binary supermassive surrounding galaxies, causing them to spiral There's also hint that the gravitational expected from the simple binary black hole model, which means the SMBH pairs may be more massive But this is all very loose, and there isn't But that data is coming. With this spectacular projects will continue. Now, the longer we because gravitational waves will have time to more distant pulsars. For example, in NANOgrav's while at 15 years they could include 67. and as we track the correlations we hope this detection of the gravitational can really start to pin down its origin, and use mysterious cosmic cataclysms that are sending Thank you to Opera for supporting PBS. One world around us is with Opera One - Opera's Opera One has a multitude of new an artificial intelligence powered by OpenAI's commands such as "Explain Briefly", which provides "Explore," which provides an overview of the explore further by providing links and keywords. into the detected browser language. Plus, with tab navigation that automatically builds into dedicated tab islands. To learn more about