Sponsored by: Manscaped Saitama-sensei! Oh, Genos... We need to talk about something really important Yeah... I need to get stronger right now! You think you've got what it takes... Genos... It's about time you learn... How I became the perfect hero... THE PERFECT HERO MUST HAVE THE PERFECT SHAVE! I see... the answer was right there all along I understand! Does he really? No, I hope he doesn't misunderstan- I did precisely what sensei instructed That's not what I meant... When I said "The Perfect Shave" I meant the hair of your down there... What... But master... How would I go about shaving down there? I've got you covered I present to you... The ultimate male grooming experience! You utter fool... I bet your electric shaver doesn't come with TWO Well the Lawn Mower 5.0 DOES! Whether you prefer the precision and safety of a The trimmer blade features longer, wider, and rounded Listen... If you prefer a smoother shave, the foil blade is designed to leave you with a finish that's irresistibly sleek and utterly bare. YES YOU CAN! The Lawn Mower is absolutely water proof! Not to mention the three different comb options, LOOK! it's even equipped with a dual LED spotlight, so you can groom with precision even in the darkest of corners. Alright next up, The Beard Headger! The perfect way to stylize and sculpt your beard If I see a hero who doesn't have a trimmer with 20 different length options, then why are we even calling him a hero? The Beard Hedger also comes with all the accessories But master... YES YOU CAN! Not only is it water proof like it's counter-part, but it can also run you up for 60 whole minutes! Now if only there was a great sale for such a great product I found us a deal already You get the Beard &amp; Balls for 20% off and free international shipping using the code BRAGON If we hurry up, we can claim that deal if we hurry, we can definitely get that sale! Yes! Let's go, Genos! Yes, sensei! What kind of joke is this? Damn it Wake up, you sh*tty sorcerer! What did I get myself involved in No... sorry... no. I didn't mean to drop you... I saw this ugly creature over there and you slipped out of my hand Hey lady... Are you alright? Are you still alive? I'M NOT A LADY FOR GOD'S SAKE! Wha? Master, I believe that's what they call a "Femboy" Yes, I see I thought my ears deceived me for a second BUT I THINK I HEARD "FEMBOY" I'm... I'm sorry. Serious punch: Femboy Decimator Listen carefully, Genos... A world without femboys, is a better world... Of course! A machine? No, he seems to be a half human And the other one looks like a "Make A Wish" kid spending And is that what I think it is? Too bad for these guys... They're about to get annihi- Don't take another step... You dare order me around you insolent weakling. Come closer and you will find out who the real weakling is Step aside Looks like genos is getting no diffed again So you survived one of my punches... Master! I'm still here... I hope you didn't think that little of me Such a pathetic attack could never kill me Shame, I thought you'd be a little stronger than that... I wonder if that baldy is as wea- Incinerate It was over before it began... I better go help maste- You never learn? I don't think you're getting the picture You really need to work on those fire attacks, they're really pathetic Is he a monster? He must be at least dragon level threat What's the matter kid I'm just getting started You haven't seen the half of it That's the spirit. Come on, try harder This is no joke I'm going to eliminate you He's so dense Consider yourself lucky I'm going to give you the opportunity to witness true strength So you better do better than this if you don't want to die I need to go past my mechanical limits here to have a chance I'm going to put my all into this next attack Let's see if you can land a hit I'm getting bored... Here,you dropped this... Ripping my arm won't be enough to take me down For crying out loud, isn't that handy? You must lose this arm a lot to implement such a feature I didn't know you have slicing attacks Kid... Like one arrogant cyborg once said You haven't seen the half of it What is this thing... Maybe I should.. Self destruct... and take him to hell with me NO NOT JUST YET! JET DRIVE ARROW! Now... Do you get the picture? No matter how much you try, all your efforts are futile Unfortunately for you, my patience has run out This is kind of depressing now I suppose I finally managed to break your spirit After I deal with you, I'll take care of that bald nobody Saitama-sensei is the ultimate hero and he'd never I see... I'm glad you're alright, nice fight. Well, you just wait here I'm going to have to deal with these two myself