Ah... Star Citizen. The massively multiplayer space SIM game from industry legend, Chris Roberts, that launches a crowdfunding nearly 9 years and $350 million later, Star Citizen still has not been released. Sure, There's a playable alpha beautifully detailed ships, a solar system with massive and moons, and Sci-Fi Cities, with Whoa! (laughter) But it's still an alpha! Largely unpolished where successfully land on a planet, as you are to clip right through if the full game will Because Cloud Imperium Games, the company developing Star Citizen, seems to have announced dates than Techlinked Which is not much of an all of our intros are good. They're all, they're all pretty good. But here's the thing I've after months of research. The question of when the game will release might be the least Because as hilariously that CIG thought they by November, 2014. If things keep on rolling when star citizen It might be, The best game ever! (catchy music) - Even when we hit a full release, we're going to keep improving - It's all been built on that why would I, why would I believe The Right? You know what I mean? - Welcome to a new series on TechLinked. We're calling TechLonger into the tech and gaming and loving, and hating. Because if you've heard you're probably one of 3 types of people: You're either 1, A Star Citizen Hater, someone who not only thinks but that it deserves to in this cruel, cruel world! (typing) You might be a Star Citizen lover, like yeah, CIG has made mistakes, but if they succeed, well, we got the best And surely that's worth and potentially decades of patience! Or 3, you might be, like me, someone who remembers Star Citizen as, oh that was a Kickstarter for hundreds of dollars, right? Did that ever come out? I heard it was a scam. Ma, Are you buying a ship? Ma No! Ma don't buy a ship! Come on! Now if you're none of those I'm not trying to put you in a box, I only ask that you don't try to put this game in a box, either. You see the one thing that the haters, and super fans can agree on is that there is no other And that's true, Not only because of its uniquely convoluted but also because of the Chris Robert's vision for to build the best damn space SIM ever. But as he told Gamers Nexus back in 2016, as fans continued to back the project, and CIG grew, Robert's vision expanded. Instead of using the existing tech, CIG would build new fundamental Planets, Ships, and other objects would that interact with each other, and the game world, in a creating a super high fidelity simulation of reality itself! Star Citizen wouldn't just it would be the best everything SIM. Okay, Chris, you're telling me you're Yes. I asked CIG's Director of to define this game, as CIG Season. The official answer I got back was, Okay. So, 2 things, People are going to find a without leaving their gaming chair. And I'm not sure that's healthy. 2, A Universe Simulator It also sounds awesome! At this point I had no choice, to even attempt to grasp I had to dive head first into and experience it for myself. I had to get my star citizenship. Or at least a Travel Visa, CIG regularly holds what where Star Foreigners get in the game world, which is known as the Persistent Universe. So, I made an account installed the game, created my character, and entered The Matrix. Over the course of the next hour, I left my character's apartment, found a train to the spaceport, found out the spaceport restarted the game, made it to The Spaceport. Passed through a Security Checkpoint that will in the future send you to prison for carrying contraband. Spawned my fighter, almost crashed into some buildings, then, left the planet's atmosphere, shot down some pirates - boarded the space yacht, and got one shotted by an NPC. However, I wasn't even mad enough because the scale and really hit me. The City that I had just left, had felt massive! But it was only one tiny about half the size of And I hadn't even jumped to in the alpha, or their multiple moons, and dozens of space stations all fully explorable on foot. But wait a second! There's another space and realistic immersive gameplay, Elite Dangerous! Made by Frontier. It's like the dark mirror It also had a Kickstarter with a full release in 2014, the same year Star Citizen Oh, and it also contains a of the entire Milky Way Galaxy based on real scientific That's 400 billion Star Systems! Star Citizen has over but the alpha currently has, one. Frontier accomplished this by as CIG. Release a playable, somewhat polished Space Flight SIM, with pretty basic procedurally and then add Planetary Landings, Rovers, and more complex gameplay. Frontier's latest expansion Odyssey, finally lets players head out on foot, outside of a ship or Rover, but wait a second, that erases one of the main over Elite Dangerous! ...Sort of. Remember, CIG isn't trying they're building The Matrix. Ships and Star Citizen are with functional interiors, access panels, cargo bays, airlocks, elevators, turret gunner seats, and control stations. If your ship has the space, you can personally place cargo, weapons, land vehicles, even other and have a judo fight in the med bay about who gets to keep it all. Sure, Elite Dangerous may but even in Odyssey, there aren't two ship interiors at all. To board your ship, you walk onto a blue marker, pass out, and wake up in the pilot seat. - What? That's lame! - Yeah, I know! Now, according to CIG, the reason all of that stuff and a big reason development is because of all the proprietary from scratch! The game is built on a but it's been modified so it would be Nebula from the Marvel movies. (fake audience laughter) - Chris Roberts thought narrow goal. But once the stretch goals are met, they very quickly realized wanted to do, actually required technology and would require incredible done. - There are some really good and digital Foundry that but here's just some of that they're working on, moving from a 32 bit to to allow solar system level scale combined with micro details at ground level. Planet building, that combines procedural and custom particle based weather, dynamic persistence. So any changes to the game sessions, meaning under a rock, quantum jump to another planet, log out, and the gun would still be it later. They even built a face over IP system, that lets you use a webcam facial expressions. - Did I tell you to get out!? - And an entirely new first which was definitely necessary even though CryEngine was built specifically for FBS games. You need that! And that's like maybe a that CIG even told me about. The way they tell it, all of this work is ultimate best damn space metaverse thing, ever! But why are they even trying to do that? And more importantly, why are they doing it this way? Selling thousand dollar in an alpha that will crash if instead of shipping something basic, but polished, and adding to it later? Everyone I asked this question had slightly different answers, but to me, it seems like it all comes I didn't want to focus And I still don't, but I can't avoid bringing him up now because so much of what whatever Star Citizen is, comes from him. But there's already been so He's the visionary behind Wing Commanders, Starlancer, and Freelancer. He's the game studio crowdfunded project of all time. He's the filmmaker, who produced a few, okay movies with money from an investment fund that exploited the German tax loophole before the government closed it in 2006. Roberts may not be a Hollywood prodigy, but he is a visionary. He can make you believe and he'll fight to see that helped him lead developers for multiple titles in order to make the And the subject of his vision has for most of his career of game, space-based, flight combat SIMS. He made a bunch, and they Clearly crafted by a of pilots crossing the galaxy, fighting alien empires and, hauling cargo, but Robert's vision was The graphics power of and studio investors, making &quot;stick to a budget&quot; and &quot;release Unbelievable, well, graphics and technology advanced, and crowdfunding got popular, enabling Roberts to and raise over $6 million campaign for Star Citizen. And its single player but turns out to everyone's surprise, good vibes alone won't Star Citizen missed virtually While the studio continued to crowdfund, designing and selling new and hundreds, and thousands of dollars. Meanwhile, it was expanding, hiring hundreds of developers, opening new studios and do full motion capture for CIG did release the PVP arena commander and star Marine modules, out the PU alpha over the next few years. Backers were finally of the game they had supported, but it was all happening to the original timeline CIG had set. And as it tends to do, in around 2015, when gaming sites like Kotaku, Polygon, and The Escapist wrote hit pieces. Roberts weathered attacks over his dictatorial leadership style, his inefficient use of funds, and even nepotism concerning as VPS marketing, from a growing faction of heretics who didn't just want their money refunded, they wanted Star Citizen to fall. Like the Vanduul seek the they're the - they're the alien, they're aliens in the game. Bad guys. See, some of Robert's greatest had come from projects where he pushed gaming technology forward. Now, Gaming PCs had the horsepower to enable a realistic high So, with a massive vision from parent companies or publishers, why wouldn't you shoot for the moon? Pun intended. Even if it takes you a little longer? One Star skeptic I talked to, a YouTuber who goes by Binky ATX, AKA, Bootcher. Says that in 2015 he pulled, that he had invested in the game. He'd had relationships with Roberts, and CIG staff in the early days. And he didn't like the in his mind, and the minds of many others. Star Citizen was becoming and more of a &quot;money raising machine&quot;, perpetuated by faith in Chris Roberts, and a fan base that didn't into which they had and money. Sunk cost fallacy? More like Sunk Cost Galaxy! (laughter) That's the title of the made about Star Citizen. I used it here for a cheap laugh, I'm sorry. Now to their credit, CIG has released company financials which show that in 2017 for the first time. But in 2018, the launch brought a ton of new features, and secured more backer support. CIG also sold a 10% stake in the company to billionaire Clive Calder for 46 million keeping the And despite the scathing over the past few years, a sizeable portion of the fandom held on, and actually grew. That is one of the most confusing aspects about this whole thing, especially to me, someone and has never backed in my life. CIG missed deadline after deadline, but even among those critical of the game, I detected at times, a faint sense of hope that despite it's drawn development, Star Citizen will be released. - [Bootcha] Star Citizen it was built to be a human being, We have never seen - Perhaps describing the inhabitants of Star Citizens world as, either lovers or haters is too simplistic. If my Twitter poll is any indication, there may be a good amount that CIG sucks, but the game is good. Or that CIG is okay, but the game sucks. Though, some people the game is great, and at It wasn't a very good poll. But for some, the whole thing isn't that complicated. Many have held onto that this game would be since the discovery of fire! Which is kind of wild - [Luke] I think this could ever made, Not necessarily the most fun, but in terms of greatness, like how expansive it is, how many systems there are, how deep it goes, how rich it It might just, by incredible amounts, trump - To understand this hopeful perspective, I talked to Morphologis, a YouTuber who covers Star Citizen, and some other space SIM games. - [Morphologis] play with friends, because there are so many, in some ways where you can create so many scenarios independently, that CIG just isn't giving you yet. You can make it really, really fun. - Like any MMO, the true is in its community. I'd seen videos of players, manning turrets with their friends, to defend their larger ship I'd seen the Daymar Rally, an entirely player driven over a planetoid where desert terrain while avoiding And I'd watched Bed where he hatches a daring prison escape, by hijacking a Rover, and by his friend under heavy fire. I needed the group experience. So Luke, Linus and I, hopped aboard Morphs multi cruise ship, and prepared to have our eyes open. - I have a cyclone. - I am glitched in a chair. - Oh my God! I am glitched - We're about to die. - Why? - Because I got caught in the doors. - Oh my God, I'm glitched (gun shots) - I can't kill him. - My eyes were opened alright, to the fact that this After trying to meet up in a feat that was made even more difficult by Linus, repeatedly, I made the mistake of of my ship. That apparently triggers from logging back in until which involves making a waiting at least 15 minutes. 2 hours into the stream, I Let's go do some star wars, baby! - On second thought, bringing Linus along was a mistake. I thought he would have some interest in earnestly checking out the game, since he and Luke actually had started a Linus techtips and had promised to pledge $1 per member, which was 3061 at the time of writing. But Linus, is more troll now than man. But despite Linus' best efforts, we got to experience some epic moments that could only happen at in Star Citizen. Driving a Rover into the cargo bay of morph ships, and taking Leaving a space station to by an interest class in the server, coming to our aid. Being forced to shoot Linus having impressed charges Thus giving me Criminal Status. And then dying and waking up in prison. Just like how that happens in real life. (laughter) Oh my gosh. While I was doing time in the about everything I had learned about Star Citizen, and - [Bootcha] Star Citizen, as a service. The software, is in very early alpha, but the product itself, is a full release. It's not so much about the game, as it is about being a - For hardcore Star Citizen literal software you run on your PC. It's the meta-game of being Because Star Citizen isn't The games true fans think of the development process, not consumers of a product. There are YouTube channels of subscribers who make about nerfs, buffs, game who talk excitedly about For their part, CIG makes a lot of this information available developer interviews on And there's a progress tracker, charting what's being As long as they continue the true believers could keep but will the rest of us? Should we believe this game will come out? Because that's really what it belief. I mean Squadron 42's latest was Q3 2020. And when that came and went, statement saying the game and will not be released to make you happy, James! James isn't here, Andy! This attitude can be seen as to one's vision, and it is that. But it can also be seen as and honestly, a sort of disrespect for the people who backed this project, thinking they would have 9 years in! - [Bootcha] CIG still needs, After 8, nearly 9 years, of development, it still needs it's - And it brings up the question, how long can a crowdfunded project ride on its backers Goodwill? We don't know. We're seeing that experiment in real time. Star Citizen is still raising funds. 2020 was their highest In early 2021, they passed Now, a cynical person look! They just want the money! But a hopeful person, sees that as dedicated fans, with a lot of expendable income, continuing to support a project And the thing is no one their faith is misplaced. CIG has developed some So who's to say that they The only people who could say, are the people making the game. But what about the people who've - Their current monetization And that to me immediately When you can buy $25,000 if you've already spent That to me immediately screams - Some people call Star Citizen a scam, and I don't think that's accurate. Even Bootcha said it's not a scam. But the fact is people The way that Star Citizen was as a perpetual alpha project more than a decade away. If there's one thing that I it's giving the impression in the past, that the full game was in the next couple of years. It's always the next couple of years. Although now people are It just - what's going on? I mean, Hey, I get it. I started working on this The way that Star Citizen is presented, now, makes it pretty in active development, refund window so, I don't think many people package today, are being they'll definitely get to next year. By Christmas Mark Hamill, he'll be your fri- he'll be your buddy. You can be friends with, you Wow. Although, blessed you do by frigates is a super common occurrence. - The interest that they on stream, has no interior. Yeah, no, they, they spawn, they spawn that in for you. - When we were on a stream, the address - (laughter) - And then there's the fact video called what is Star Citizen? That definitely makes the than it is. And, and Hey, Hey, that's CIG. Stop that! Now, if you, the viewer are thinking about buying into Star Citizen, first off, maybe just wait until because they have them pretty regularly. But if you know what you're getting into, and you know that it's quite possible this janky alpha experience out of this project, 45 bucks for a starter ship, isn't a horrible price, for game that could turn but could also, not. At the end of the day, for a backer, every crowdfunding If it wasn't, people would wait until and released, and critics give it a score out of 10. And the customer decides to buy the game for a reasonable price. Star Citizen is not that. It might be the longest con in the history of the gaming industry. Or it might be, the greatest game ever. And the greatest compact iFixit. That's right, we have a can you believe it!? iFixit's toolkits are have all the essential bits you need, to fix your electronics. From mini kits with 16 bits, to full repair toolkits to that delivers what your less than 9 years. iFixit has you covered. They've got over 70,000 and step-by-step instructions, so you can work worry-free, knowing you've got both knowledge, and quality parts backed by So get the right tool for the by checking out, iFixit.com/techlinked. Guys, this was a crazy video But it was super fun, and I learned a lot, so big thanks to all the and were able to give me a big window into this crazy, crazy world. If you want to see more on this channel, leave a comment below. And if you thought it was to see anything like this ever again, also leave a comment. I love you. And all of your thoughts.