- By having a camera always on, it can always be searching for your face. That way when you're not in front of your smartphone, it locks. - Or I could just press a button, and it locks. welcome to All Things And we're all at this point kind of used to having Siri, Alexa, Google Home and all of these audio listening devices, constantly listening for commands. And in most cases, even recording But now we're being introduced to, what's known as an always-on camera. Which you saw at the beginning here, but I'm gonna share from a summit, a Tech which is a chip maker that that go into some of the cell phones that we have. And they've developed the technology to enable always-on cameras that will constantly be I mean, as it is right now, I have to either lift it and then it will start and unlock the phone based on that. But Qualcomm is saying that or at least a phone chip that will be able to always be searching for our face. So what are the advantages of this? - [Narrator] The always-on camera gives one very basic advantage. Your phone's front camera is always securely looking for your face, even if you don't touch - Okay. Yeah. I guess I can see a little So now it's always gonna Whenever it sees me, it will unlock any time that it's it will lock up immediately. It's always just looking for my face. I get that in a way. I mean, we are always as humans drawn to even greater convenience, that's the reason why these have become so popular We love the convenience but an always-on camera just seems like it takes it one step too far. All right, so let's think about the risks of having an always on computer. Like what about privacy? Well, I mean, at least according - And you don't have The always-on camera data never leaves the secure sensing hub while - Okay, so it never leaves the chip. This is very much similar that we give to our cell phones right now. So for example, Apple, this phone has my fingerprint. It has my face ID, but at least according to Apple, all of that information is It is never stored on Apple servers. In the same way, Qualcomm saying that none of this information, none of the always-on camera information will leave the chip itself. The chip is merely acting It's always looking for your face so that it can activate once you start looking at it or immediately once it's And again, we're talking but at the expense of your privacy. So what does this mean now? Well, right now there aren't any phones that use this Snapdragon chips. So this isn't something that is currently present in our phones. This is something that will happen maybe in another year or two years. What Qualcomm is saying the ability to do this. And now it's up to the phone manufacturers to actually implement and this always-on feature. So will they do it? Well, that's up to the but right now you need am I comfortable with this? Am I comfortable with an it's not gonna be too long before you're presented with a phone that has the always-on feature. And just like a lot of that give you the ability to that doesn't always mean take this for example, it still has a GPS tracker that will track where the phone is. That's a security feature so that if someone steals your phone it can still be tracked. But you're talking about the fact that I thought I turned my phone off and it is still generating a GPS signal. That's why a lot of the privacy phones that are sold have a physical switch that disconnects the camera, or it disconnects the microphone so that you know when you turn those off, they cannot hear anything, they can not record any video. The same can't be said with or always-on listening devices. So you have to think about the fact that there are phone manufacturers, let's use China as an that are required by Chinese law to give the Chinese Now, according to Qualcomm, that shouldn't matter stays on the chip itself. But how can I be sure of that? I don't know that I can, and I don't necessarily trust that kind of separation between the chip and what is accessible of their OS remains separated. And I know I'm picking on China here, but the same could be said for Google and their pixel phones. They have every reason to want to gather as much information as and same for Apple. So it is a lot about who you trust, but it's also about whether or saying about our privacy and security. in relation to this always on technology that that's gonna be And I'm not convinced it is, What do you think? Is this a technology that you Actually, let me put it this way. I want you to answer this Let's say that I approach absolutely free. You don't have to pay a penny, but it has the always-on feature. Would you take it? All right, let's say that it but within the software, it gives you the ability to turn that off. Would you take it then? That's what I want you to and start thinking right now is the always-on camera features something that you're comfortable with and if not start preparing for the day when that is a standard feature whenever we upgrade to the