- This is space, and this is an egg moments before I attempted Now in an egg drop competition, in case you never had the chance to do it yourself in school, the goal is to build a contraption that can protect a raw egg from breaking when dropped from the So my original plan was to drop an egg in a contraption I built from but humans are always So if I really wanted to I realized I would need to and straight to outer space. And when I started on this I knew if I could draw on my experience of landing stuff on other planets, I would be guaranteed the record. But what I didn't know is this financially, and mentally draining video I would ever attempt. But first, let me just The plan was to clamp an egg then attach that rocket and take it up to space. Once there, the weather and just by using gravity only, the rocket would eventually breaking the speed of sound, and then it would autonomously adjust the four fins on the back to steer itself to the target location, and then at 300 feet above the ground, it would release the egg, which would free fall onto a mattress that we'd placed on the ground. And that all seemed So like any good engineers would, we broke the problem down into with calculating the And by terminal velocity, I mean that any object including humans, have a maximum speed at which they fall once the force of earth balances with the pushback force from bumping into more as you start to fall faster. For humans that max speed And after doing some it tops out at 75 miles per hour. So to make sure the egg wouldn't break if we dropped it onto a mattress we ran our first test. And since we couldn't find whose lawyers would agree to let us throw an egg off we had to improvise a bit. - 83. - Yes, check the egg, no cracks. So our mattress will protect an egg even if it's traveling faster That's a good start. The next step in our DIY space program was to head back to my friends in the small farming town which is the place where he broke the elephant toothpaste world record, where the plan was to for the egg to land on with a little bit of margin - All right, so we've got so that as we're like we wanna be able to pick it out. This is the computer. Here's the fins. - This, by the way, is Joe, and he has a fascinating And what makes him especially for any kind of engineering degree. He's all self-taught, and recently even landed a after seven years of trying. Joe was in charge of tracking to the mattress using Whereas I was in charge of the payload. In other words, how we would keep the egg in a little oven with heaters, which would break away before we dropped, along with the the mechanisms Release the egg! And the purpose of this was a flight characterization test. Basically before we spent taking the balloon all we were here just to do a low just to prove to ourselves using the fins. We're setting all sorts World's largest mattress, fastest egg. - [Joe] Yep. - Tallest egg drop. What could possibly go wrong And so with everything and ready to go, all we needed which thankfully Gridley has in abundance. Hi. I'm sorry. This is terrifying. (chicken squawking) Okay, okay. Okay, nope, nope, nope. Hey. (chicken squawking) The precious egg. In the history of our universe, this is the first chicken that will go faster supersonic Mach One. Thank you. (chicken squawking) I'm sorry, I'm leaving. Congratulations. So the next morning we got up at 4:00 AM when the winds would be the most calm to run through all our final Loading up our lovely egg. Including the last minute decision to add a metallic streamer to make it easier to visually track. - We've got redundancy We've got redundant Mark has two servos on the fairing. No dumb failures. - And that's exactly when we All right. (Mark screaming) - [Joe] The GPS is mad. - Ah, we gotta scrub the launch. We were just walking back, I hear the egg go ploop, And scrubbing the launch meant we unfortunately had to release all the helium out of the balloon, which is an opportunity I'm Hello, wow, that's so cool! (all laughing) And back at home base, we ran some tests that that since the GPS unit was the last minute edition was interfering with the GPS signal. And that messed up the rocket's math in calculating its speed. So it thought it was So early the next morning, with a few modifications. The most important being swapping the metallic tracking streamer with one made from plastic. The good news is there's Bad news, it's about 20 degrees colder, which means our mattresses Nevertheless, we pushed forward. Don't trip, Mark. As I very carefully delivered the rockets to the new balloon launch site. - Send it. - [Mark] Send it, baby. We'll send it. (dramatic music) - It's happening. - Should we see it? Oh, yeah, yeah, I see (Mark laughing) (dramatic music) - Oh, there it is. - [Mark] And while the whole - [Joe] So we might be in trouble. We quickly realized the balloon was rising at a slower rate than we anticipated. We're already south, and Which totally threw off And so after a few more minutes, we decided to manually drop already way too far off course for the rocket to make to the mattress using Three, two, one, clicked. (wind rushing) - Oh boy, that's not good. - And that's when we encountered the second problem of the day as the fins actively forced the rocket into an uncontrolled death spiral. Altitude is 1400 coming down fast. (rocket crashing) - Well, it landed somewhere. - Check the mattress just in case. And since we have the GPS we headed out to track it down. The real question is what's - Mark, I think I might - At which point we of sitting birds, which I'm not gonna let just pass on by. - [Joe] That's a chute man. - [Mark] Is that a chute? - [Joe] There's no egg. - The egg did release. The fact that this is out so that's good. But despite that silver lining, the movable fins seemed to be into that tailspin, which was surprising because a lot of analysis and So after conducting a and firmware, he was a single rogue negative sign in the code that seemed to be causing which meant we were ready We had run out of spare parts so regardless of outcome, this If we couldn't land the egg on a mattress from 10,000 feet up, we wouldn't have any coming all the way down from space. Phenomenal. That's nerdy space talk for everything is exactly as expected. I'm standing in the middle of where hopefully the egg will Otherwise, we're pivoting, and my new video's - So I'm arming the rocket right now. - The last step. All right, old girl, - [All] Three, two, one. - [Mark] Let her ride, baby. Yee haw! (upbeat music) - [Joe] Looking good so - [Mark] Now in order for the balloon to hit the target we'd started from different which raises an interesting question maybe you've wondered yourself, how do big balloons like hot or I guess even just know And the answer is computers and speed at every height as you go up. So on a given day, if these are the predicted we would need to launch here to be directly above the mattress when we got to 10,000 feet. But how we know all this because every day it's someone's job to launch two balloons at noon and midnight London time. But this is done in over all around the world at And these balloons all have something called a radiosonde attached to them that measures things temperature, and wind, and then they transmit the information back to the ground stations, which gets fed into supercomputers. And that's the reason can be so accurate. So 2000 of these massive weather and then eventually pop And since they're transmitting a signal, some folks make a hobby out of just trying to track 'em down. - [Joe] How close are - [Mark] Balloon release? - [Joe] Balloon release. - That's it. And this time we were releasing right in the target drop zone, which was good news on one hand, but it raised some new - [Man] Where is it? - [Man] Grab a chair! - [Joe] 400. - [Mark] Grab a chair. (all laughing) See something? - [Joe] Altitude 98 meters. (Mark screaming) I think we're down. - Everyone okay? That was exhilarating. So we were much closer this time, and we even managed to steer the rocket in the right direction just slightly. - [Joe] We found it. - [Mark] Egg? - No egg. - [Mark] No egg? - [Joe] Wait a minute. (Mark gasping) - [Mark] it's the egg. - [Joe] It's the egg. - [Mark] Oh, did it crack? - I mean, it's not not cracked. - So after three failed attempts, we still seemed pretty far off which meant it was time for with my buddy Adam Steltzner, who you might recognize as this guy from when we landed Curiosity on Mars. - [Radio Operator] Touchdown confirmed. We're safe on Mars. - [Mark] He has a PhD from Caltech, and he's also the Chief and Mars sample return. And so after explaining to he immediately spotted a fatal - And you're doing terminal guidance to something about the size of a house. How are you gonna do that? How do you do that? I mean, I know how you physically do that. How do you not get busted by the FAA? - [Mark] In other words, we to make a precision guided missile. - Dude, there are thousands of people who have done this before, and not to say a single (beep) word to you. - [Mark] And to be fair, The people who could And even if we figured it out ourselves, the ethics of just slapping are questionable at best. And so after a fruitful - But we release at about the height, and then we do a lobbing, the thing you start to You might wanna start - [Mark] We decided to pivot and instead of a precision on a mattress in a small town, we would set our sights on a much more general egg landing target by heading out to the desert. But as part of of the pivot, we completely scrapped our old design and spent a couple months a new system that borrowed heavily from the Curiosity landing because we figured if it could it could safely land an egg on Earth. So we would still go to but this time the rocket would and it would be three times as to guarantee we would get the egg to supersonic speeds on the way down. Then just like NASA in the upper atmosphere and to dissipate a bunch of we would separate from the about halfway down after we'd already And because the system it would naturally arrow break and reduce its speed to the Then on Mars, the next step followed by the heat shield separation. And we would follow in kind and then release our own nose cone, which would then expose our as you can see here, which we borrowed from the It was intentionally ambitious but after a couple months of complete redesigning and building, we found ourselves in the desert feeling cautiously optimistic. And that was due in part to because when I left NASA, my friends gave me this And for scale, that's the That's part of the parachute, the Curiosity rover used to land. So that piece of parachute is actually one of the 80 as they were running the final tests in the world's largest wind tunnel. And so it only felt fitting a bit of cutting and a little sewing, it had nobley repurposed So as the sun went down back at the hotel, we worked late into the This was an idea and a passion project three years in the making. And it took a staggering amount of work even to get us to this point. We had thought and that could go wrong. And while I was feeling optimistic, I knew at the end of the day that would ultimately determine our fate. So early the next morning, the crew in charge of the to start filling it up. And this balloon looks a little because it's a zero The advantage these have over is they can go higher up into and they're open on the bottom, which means they equalize to the pressure, and it's impossible for them to pop. So when you want it to come down, you send a signal that that's sewn into the side of the balloon, and it opens like a The downside is they're and so thin and delicate, you have to be really careful And they were about an with the four massive tanks when we made a gut wrenching discovery. Hey, dude, I got bad news. We have to scrub, start taking the helium - Launch scrubbed. They had some issues that I guess they can't resolve by today, so we're sucking out the and trying for another day, so. - So, no? - No, yep. - What are you talking about? Are you serious? - [Man] That's what it sounds like. - [Mark] Now for context, Joe was in charge of and me and my team were And while we'd each tested ad nauseum, it wasn't until that morning that we were able to test the integration of the And when we did, it became I had made a critical oversight. So tension compression, this is great. It's holding onto that The problem is this is so long and heavy, as soon as it wiggles, Great tension compression. But this happening at Mach Two is. - That's not gonna work out. - There's no other balloons that we can get access to. This is the only one We're trying to save this one so we could hopefully reuse it, But any slight little damage, you touch it in the wrong spot, and now that's an imperfection. that may actually be a failure (dramatic music) And this was an absolute low point for me. The integration of two independent systems is such a classic failure I was crushed, I had missed this, and financial concerns aside, I felt like I had just let everyone down, not just my team and the but all the other folks, some of whom drove six hours But that's the thing with failures. They can sting like crazy, but it's really just a process to learn one more way, not to do a thing. And so even as I sat like any good engineer, I was already coming up with a list of all the things we were going to fix to get back out here and try And this principle of resiliency is something I think can be learned. In fact, I believe this so much, I started a toy company called CrunchLabs with the express goal of helping kids think like an engineer. So with the Build Box, not that you put together every month, but you do it alongside me while I teach you all the We're right there in the trenches building and succeeding together, so the principles really sink in. So if you're a kid and to put at the top of or you wanna gift it to someone else, so you can be the household hero, just head to crunchlabs.com or use the link in the video description. Now as far as my plan to bounce we did four things to really get serious and stack the dice in our First of all, we fixed with more of a sheath design that could handle the bending moment, and then then at the right altitude, it would autonomously with a black powder charge. Second, we ran some vacuum on a raw egg. There's no air pressure, and it's really, really cold in space. So if you don't do for the two hours, it takes It will freeze and crack So we tested some heaters and proved that they Third, we built redundancy When NASA sends something to Mars, they can't go there to fix And for that reason, a lot of Even the part of my own that accepted a dirt sample from the arm into the belly of the rover had two doors that opened to the exact same place in case one of the doors In our case redundancy meant making a two foot wide custom beach ball that we would stuff with a second egg surrounded in packing materials. With a 20 foot streamer on the back, we would just drop like a rock. It would be dead simple. No parachutes to deploy, no autonomous timing sequences This would be our redundant yet I would argue kind of to land a safe egg. And fourth and finally, we went to a local crane yard at their respective terminal velocities. Starting first with the beach ball. Come on baby. Oh, she's alive. And after that we tested the of the rocket. Oh yeah, oh yeah. By the way, the actual rover (lips smacking) And so after all that, we made the six hour for what I was really, really Hey guys. After four failed attempts, which left me feeling And right outta the gate we got two bits of really good news. The first relates to that super delicate zero from the last launch because there was no possible just barely touching the and creates a weak point for it to tear. So I was obsessively checking that would give us the verdict. The force reading is 37.6 pulling this up. Importantly, it's not changing. If it were changing and going down, that means we would have a leak. But it's holding steady at 37.6. That's a big deal. And the second piece of good news is my buddy and Al Chen had arrived. You might recognize Al as and he's the one who actually said this. - [Al] Touchdown confirmed (NASA Engineers cheering) - If we were successful, he'd be the one to make the official call. And so after all the requisite and three long years, here we go girl, it was finally time for liftoff. Ready? Three, two, one. (uplifting music) And everything was looking good. The balloon ascent rate And that meant we for and things were finally breaking our way. Is that how it's supposed to look? - [Joe] Yeah. And it takes about two hours Whoa. So once the balloon hit 30,000 feet, we decided to hop in the car so we could drive over to about 45 minutes away. So far it's all systems nominal. Balloon's in the air. It's ascending at the right rate. We've passed some and we're still in the game. Fifth time is the charm as they say. And we eventually started so we pulled over for a bit as we reached an important of 100,000 feet. - [Man] I would say over (crew cheering) - Over a hundred. That's 19 miles up and two than a typical commercial plane flies. And because the balloon we realized we could actually which was awesome. Oh yeah, no, I see it, yeah. Dude, that's totally it. What wasn't awesome Joe, while looking through the binoculars made this gut wrenching observation. - [Joe] It looked really big, and then it looked really small. - [Man] You saw it small. - [Joe] Yeah, it like, - But it's just weird that it would just completely disappear, - [Mark] Which was followed from the balloon tracking team. - It dropped within the last two minutes. - [Joe] That's 30,000 feet So it's just popped. - But these don't pop. There's zero pressure. And that's true. They don't pop, but unbeknownst to us, while we were looking the rocket and beach ball had been spinning around and for about 10 minutes. This meant the cord that that self-destructs, the balloon was getting wrapped until it was so tight. It pulled down on the balloon string that is designed to essentially And so before we even had the and beach ball from the balloon, it all started coming down at 150 miles per hour, which is way faster than Well, let's start driving. And as we drove over, all I could think about was how our fate would of the redundant systems - We think it's probably - [Mark] This was our Apollo 13 moment. If our payload could from the tangled rocket then it would be able to deploy and land the egg safely on its airbags. And as we parked, we knew There was nothing left to do, but go on a hunt to find the I see something orange that Okay, we've got a thing. And seeing the payload all because it meant it had actually from the mangled weather And later when we checked the footage, this is exactly what it confirmed. And while that was incredible news, I knew by this point I mean, so let's look through the window. A little bit of dirt. What do you see. - Pretty good. Definitely touched down, but. - Touchdown confirmed whether is TBD, right? - Let's check it out to be sure. - Oh man. (upbeat music) - Touchdown confirmed. We're safe on earth. - We're safe on earth. That is a hot egg. This was in space, and now it's on earth, and it's not broken. After that, we tracked which as far as I was concerned, was just extra credit at this point. This is the backup, the simple solution. The true engineer's solution here. - Oh my God, touchdown confirmed. Look at that. We're safe on earth. - We are safe on earth. Two for two, baby. Two for two. And as we walked away with I was reminded that in how we think they will. But by learning from your failures, coupled with a bit of tenacity, us humans can accomplish as the world's smartest martian robots, or as ridiculous as the You know what would be cool? Because like I hope you learned something by watching this video, but how much more would you have learned if you were out there helping to like troubleshoot Well, I got great news for you cause I got the next best thing, and it's called the CrunchLabs Build Box. It's a toy that gets delivered right to your doorstep every month, and then we build it together while I teach you all the juicy physics that make it work. You're basically unlocking your own personal Mark where you learn a new that will have you not just but more importantly So you develop that resilience and those problem solving skills. And by the way, don't go slipping on just how cool the toys actually are. (Toy clicking) Like this insanely accurate, or this linkage powered drawing machine, or this Rube Goldberg that will leave you feeling like you just landed your And I should mention that It's where we design all these boxes, and it's got a tennis ball cannon and the world's longest Hot Wheels track and a foam pit and a bunch And each month when you open your box that comes in the mail, you have a chance to And if your box has it, that means you and your and visit me and my team for a day, and we'll build some cool stuff together. So if you wanna embark on and make a sad Christmas tree like this, a happy Christmas tree, just go to Crunchlabs.com or use the link in the video description where we're giving away two months free as a holiday special.