Samuel: Get down on your knees! Right now! When a fugitive does would they jump? Yes. I've had several fugitives that literally jumped off buildings. Hi, my name is Rasheen Peppers. I'm a former police captain 10 years of my career I was detailed to United tracking down what they consider the world's most violent fugitives. Today, we'll be looking at fugitive chases in movies and TVs and see [laughs] 90% of that is just unrealistic. They're transporting her That's against protocol. The cage in the car is a partition that separates the prisoner from the officers that are driving. This protects them. In the event the person they're unable to get to the In this scene, where her that's against protocol. You're handcuffed to the back. Because they transported her to the front, she was able to get to their Tasers. If an officer rides in the rear, they ride with their firearm So they would never sit if their weapon was on the right. Being transported in the this can and can't happen. If there is some type of intelligence that this person, one, two, that there are going to be others that will be attempting if you have information like that, yes, but we would never use marked police cars. We only transport in unmarked cars. I rate this one a 2. Nothing else in this clip I'm here. Where are you? So, although Walter, in this scene, is not a fugitive yet, it's realistic to bait One, we actually sent out probably close to 100 fugitives. We had a mailing list go out about them winning these prizes. We had them all come to Atlantic City to the convention center. there was a false wall that Then, once everything was done, [clicks], doors locked, and then you have SWAT teams come in, and they just start securing everybody. So, yes, it happens. Hank: Walt! Come on out, Walt! Having a witness there, I would never have them at a scene. Our main goal is to protect the public. So if you have a citizen or you never want to expose them. Right? And you wouldn't have two agents there to do a operation like that, because it's high risk. They also responded to a deserted area, which is not going to happen unless it was something Hank: Stop. Lace your fingers behind your head. Walk backwards to me. Get on your knees. By having them turn around and come towards you When he ordered him to turn around, they call that a felony because the person may cause some type of threat or high risk. However, the preferable way is not to really keep him on because if he drops his hands, you can't see them anymore. And now you have a situation that he has a firearm in his hand. So many of the officers with their hands out to their sides and their palms facing up. I give it a 6 for this scene. See, right here, a car hit a motorcycle, and the officers are still chasing Bourne. That's just not real. It's paramount to make that was hit on that motorcycle is OK. And if the person that you pushed needs any medical treatment, you would radio in that the not continue to chase Yeah, it was realistic. The officers were in a foot chase. They don't have access So it appeared that if they can get the captain's attention to let the captain know, there's someone that However, what should have been done in the interim was that whoever governs their water to After he got off the boat, there was pretty much no eye contact. So at that point they should trying to set a perimeter. It happens to us, not often, but enough that you find fugitives that are very athletic, very agile, that are able to avoid apprehension. I remember we had a guy, he jumps right off the roof, he falls onto a iron-cast fence. He literally takes his arm out, and pew, he runs. I rated this one an 8. What color was that ambulance, Renfro? That scene is very realistic. It was quintessential for them to use some type of aerial support. Normally, we know when is when we plan things by gathering intelligence, and include a helicopter if we need it. This right here was something But what's not shown in he's probably hours ahead of them. So when the information came in that he was spotted in a ambulance, they needed the helicopter Get on the horn. Bring Biggs and Newman in from the south side of that viaduct. Well, there's no right or wrong in that. However, when you're and you're believing you're now you have locked the citizens in there with the perpetrator. I may have stationed a so that each car that's was stopped to make sure he did not jump into another vehicle. But to completely shut it off, Put a man in there! Have I personally chased No. But have I chased and dangerous situations? Yes. So I would've did the same I would've had my team That doesn't mean that we would prolong going into the sewer, but at least while that's being done, we know that the vehicles are I didn't kill my wife! I don't care! So, that reaction is true. Many fugitive trackers don't really care if they did the crime or not. Only thing we know is that a warrant has been signed for your arrest, and our job is to bring you to Samuel: Put that gun down! What the deputy did was actually protocol. He was by himself. There because he could have caused In a real-life situation, had he turned around with that gun, 'cause the command was, normally, that would've for use of deadly force. When a fugitive does and he's cornered, would they jump? Yes, I've had several fugitives that literally jumped off buildings. He should've got on a and then they could have But, you know, he jumped. I rate this scene 8 out of 10. Paramedic: 90 seconds. Wait, wait, wait. It's 1 a.m., not 1 p.m. Anything goes wrong, you can blame us. Yeah, well something will go wrong, and then you're all f---ed. So, they're going back and Local government working is very realistic. So, you have NYPD here, You have the lead detective stating what he believes that needs to be done, and the FBI has a different position. Different agencies, different methodologies. Close the island. What island? Manhattan. Arbitrarily lock down the whole island. It's not realistic. That imposes on millions trying to move in and out of the city. It's unjustified. For terrorist attacks, However, that would never That would definitely come from someone in the federal authorities to make a determination of that sort. In this scene, they haven't even identified who the perpetrators are. So who and what are they chasing? It's about finding out who did it, not locking down Manhattan. Catch them by 5. Wait, is that a yes or a no? Catch them by 5. This guy gives Detective Davis until 5 a.m. to find the and it's already 1 a.m. Four hours is just not you're talking about closing That's going to take just to close the island down. And, No. 2, a deputy mayor or possess the acumen when to determine how many hours it would take for a detective to solve a crime. When you're tracking a fugitive, everything is a case-by-case basis. It could be from one hour to five years. So that's not even ethical There are 21 bridges in Shut them down. Stop every train that leaves the island and loop the subways. Cutting off bridges is not as simple as the movie portrays. They don't even have However, if you have, as an officer, reasonable belief that that's on a specific bridge, specific train, or any yes, you have the authority to seize it so that you can make the apprehension. However, if you're going and elaborate, like the scene, you will have to contact to ask permission to do that. I gave this a 4 out of 10. No detective has the authority to shut down a whole city. Frank: Hello, Carl. Carl: Barry Allen, Secret Service. It's definitely something Personally, I've received at least 12 calls from fugitives. In this scene, Agent Carl is a FBI agent tracking a fugitive. FBI, they do have a fugitive unit, but the Marshals Service In my suite at the You're not going to Vegas. You're not in the Stuyvesant Arms. It's very realistic for that the fugitive was Nine times out of 10 when he's not calling you to turn himself in. He's playing checkers. He's trying to find out what you know so he can make his next move. I'll tell you what I am sure of. You're going to get caught. When the agent tells him that you're going to get caught, it's statistically the truth. 93% to 95% of fugitives are apprehended. Movies show that fugitives are So it's definitely much higher than what the movies and TV shows portray. You didn't call just You have no one else to call! [laughs] He was doing exactly what I would've done. When you start to attempt from a fugitive, you may tip off to him more what you know. In that scene, he says, &quot;You Right? He said that because he's probably exhausted all of his relatives, all of his friends, who don't even want this guy next to them because you brought law The biggest myth that you have in reference to tracking is that it's not always running around, jumping in cars, things of that nature. There's a lot of paperwork behind this. There's a lot of interviews 10% may be the jumping into cars and running after a person. I rate this scene a 9 out of 10. Shut up and put your arm around me. Laugh at something I said. Steve: What? [Steve laughs] See, that tacit movement there would've probably made me look at them and suspect that they were because it was just a It was avoidance, and that because how would they know A lot of the fugitive trackers, most of them don't know They just know them by a picture. So it is realistic that would be thrown off by Negative at the source. This scenario, they're in a mall. Definitely not the best place to do it. What I would have done was and when they left the mall maybe be able to take them Give me a floor rundown. Negative on three. Negative on two. The fugitive trackers, which is always what you want to do. You never really want to be by yourself in the event that you have To spread out in the mall, that's a way of setting a perimeter. And, yes, when you're in it is realistic for fugitive and then press it deeper into their ear so they can hear the communication. It's not just a movie trope at all. Kiss me. What? So, when they just started kissing, it may throw a fugitive tracker off, because that's not the behavior that the fugitive tracker's Many of the fugitive trackers are trained to look for things that are pronounced, things that are normal, because those things become The environment is going to dictate what you're going to look for. They just started kissing. That's a natural thing that and a fugitive tracker that's abnormal. However, for me, I would have looked and assessed because of the timing of the kiss. It wasn't like it was taking place when I walked onto the escalator and saw it taking place. No, it happened at the I rated this one 9 out of 10. It does take place where a fugitive will produce so that they can be invisible Well, their disguises The community dictates the I've done many disguises. One that stands out to me, there was a murder that took We received some intelligence where a couple of apartments they were experiencing So I went and posed as an electrician. One thing that we have to be is disguising ourselves Here, you know, he's dressed We normally probably because then you put that Tactically, that's not how the marshals are actually going to enter. They would have a team at the and a team at the front door. Stacked means they would who would have different types They would've had a A bunker is a shield. They would've had ballistic helmets on. They would've had other If you watch most of the scene, it would've limited all of the fighting and people jumping out of all these areas, 'cause they would go in, and tactically sound and contained. Police! Freeze! Don't even think about it! Hands in the air! Get away! The no-knock is very controversial. The no-knock is when we can articulate that us knocking puts the officer in some type of risk or the evidence will be destroyed. I would say, just for the no-knock would have been They hit the door, people That one guy tried to go into the bedroom. He ended up getting shot because he didn't listen to the officer, and under the baby there The dilemma is coming law enforcement and the citizens, the police officers and put their lives on the line and also the citizens that And it's going to really or the legislators to that's going to satisfy both sides. I rated this scene an 8 out of 10. The surveillance was very realistic. The mayhem inside the apartment That's what you're going to get when you enter an apartment especially in the wrong manner. Come on, run! What the correction When you're talking about six, and when you look at the officers, you only had about the equal amount. So to disperse, actually, could have put the officers in danger. The best thing for them was to at least maintain eye contact so that you can radio in to get the additional resources that you needed. So, in this scene, they maintain eyesight. They stayed behind them all. Run! Officer: Hold your fire! When the officer yells, &quot;Hold your fire,&quot; I actually commend him for that. So the officer chose to preserve life as opposed to doing what probably other officers Lincoln: Michael, let's go! So, it's no wrong or but it also depends on the his strength, which it it's hard to do when you're and trying to board a train. So they weren't able to make the train, and the two prisoners got away. My favorite fugitive chase in a movie or TV show happens to be, it's a show that I was a and the episode was And this apprehension was so fast-paced that my adrenaline, for at least a good two hours, just kept going. Thanks for watching. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, click on the video above.