welcome to a new video of permaculture naturalia and this is the video that I wanted to make because the saga of fire begins, winter begins and I bring you today a mega super video How many times did you say if I have to make an oven if I have to make one grill if I have to make a brazier I need to take up a lot of space a lot of artifacts well today I bring you a traditional adaptation of the TANDOOR oven today I bring you a small, economical, small and multifunction simple oven and you may be wondering Diego why you chose the oven tandori, an oven that is Hindu that you will never see in the countryside Well, the truth is that the tandori oven has a shape that attracted me, it is a kind of cone of fire that also generates a very even surrounding heat and that allows me to adapt a lot of kitchen implements and art that I am going to tell you at the end of this video, that is why I ask you to keep the tandori oven, it is an oven that is generally built underground, it is where the Pita bread is cooked and what I am going to do is raise it so that it is within arm's reach. I leave you here an image of the oven so you can see what it looks like. And I ask you to pay attention because at the end of the video I am going to leave you a key phrase again if you put that key phrase Down here in the comments I promise I promise I promise I'll make a video cooking in the tandori oven showing you all the implements, which are a lot and they're all Creole and I'll also give you all the recipes So stay until the end because you won't regret it now I am here in the place where I am going to make the tandori oven, stretch a little the subfloor that I had when I filled it, I have already marked the diameter, now I am going to tell you a little about this and again I will show you the gallery of recycled and multipurpose things that I am going to I am using I have tiles I have broken fired bricks I have adobe bricks I have bottles I have a tin I am using in this tandori oven I really did not buy anything so maybe you do have to buy but I invite you to let your imagination and your creativity allow you to make one construction with what you have because it is possible Well, I already have a circumference marked on the base that stretches the subfloor that coincides with this circumference, which is the typical 200 l metal container where the oil and turpentine come from. What I did was in the When I was filling it, I squeezed it so that the circumference was marked and I chose this diameter, which is 60 cm because it is what will be comfortable for me and it will be functional for the size of the oven, the oven will unfold in this sense As if it were a cylinder, then it will become thinner at the top, as if a cone begins to form, it will have a supporting edge and then it will have a second layer that will cover it approximately the height it will This will be it and it will have a baked brick plinth to separate it from the floor. Well, I have already marked the 60 cm diameter. Now I am going to make a base with common fired brick and I already have the water-repellent concrete prepared here. I leave you a miniature here. So you can see our video where I explain how to assemble a concrete with a water-repellent base. What I'm looking for is that the humidity that may come from the ground does not rise towards my mud bricks. Perfect , we already have the cherry concrete base. Now what are we going to do? What to do is mark the circumference again and we are going to start working with the adobes. Well, it is important to remember that when I make cherry concrete, it must be covered so that the cherry does not burn. So I am immediately going to start working. About that, what we are going to do is glue mud bricks and then we are going to make the interior that we are going to work with, which would be the insulation of the floor of our pandori oven. It is time to prepare the mud that we are going to use throughout the construction of the oven both for gluing bricks and for taking joints and making the occasional brick. Then two fundamental considerations, the first is that you are going to prepare the clay based on only earth, the earth that you have in your place, the earth that you have in your house is going to be fine. If you have the information about where the person who makes the adobes gets the earth, use that. What we want is achieve the greatest possible uniformity the greatest homogeneity between the glue soil, the brick base soil and the brick itself it is important that you do not add sand to the mixture remember that sand is an element that expands too much During the construction processes heating And that can cause breaks and fissures and the second consideration is that we are going to add a lot of fermented dung to the mixture. In this case, for a good paste of fermented dung in the Tacho that you have, you have to put half earth, half dung, mix and then cover with water and you have to leave it ideally for a month, what will happen is that an anaerobic fermentation will be generated that will enhance the properties of the glue, then in the clay the hardening, the plasticity and when it is heated and it tends to cooking the clay in the oven, the dung gives it extreme hardness and at the same time a much higher resistance to heat than if it did not have dung. Look, come closer and see what a good dung paste is. Those bubbles, that gas that comes out, is the fermentation. anaerobic that causes the material to release a slime that is like this finite part, which is what will end up giving hardness, resistance and quality to your mixture for ovens and you will be wondering, Diego, how much slime do I put in the formula for preparing the mud that I am going to use is three parts of earth For one part of dung when you prepare the mixture keep in mind not to overdo the added water because it already adds water to the dung so earth dung and then water to finish forming the mixture Well, What I'm going to do now is start gluing the bricks. The guys, these guys have the common fired brick, but they are adobes, they're uncooked. What I'm going to do is make a circle that goes around the entire circumference, barely stepping on the circle because it's What I need is to have support for the second coverage. Yes, then I am going to do the entire lap first. As if it were a kind of lower chaining, well, I just finished the first lap, the first Chained and on what would be the inner side of this circumference I am going to mount the blocks that are going to be the actual body of the oven and on the outside I am going to come with the small adobes that are chained together which gives me the support of what would be the exterior coating and on the inside I am going to step with the adobe of the body of the oven well, I already have here our mixture of refractory cement, I leave you the thumbnail up here so that you can recognize it within the Channel, the video of how to prepare a refractory cement with elements that you have in your house that are super economical, what I am going to do now is to plaster both the floor and the internal walls of this first chain, I am going to make what we call the refractory box, it is important that you do this before I throw away the cement so that the water-repellent does not burn, remember that, well, it's already been a while. day since we let the reboque that lines the inside of the refractory box dry, so I already have the floor and the walls ready, I tell you that I covered it with a nylon so that it evaporates at a slower speed and helps the water go down much more. Even though, I already have everything ready to fill the refractory drawer. Before telling you about those elements, I ask you to subscribe, there is the little button down here, leave us your comments and share and like this video because it is a way to make this reach a lot more people. When you do any of those actions, this video is shown much more and can reach more people who are looking for this type of content. I am going to fill the refractory drawer with three different materials. First of all, the first section is going to be occupied by glass, the second layer is going to be sand, the third layer is going to be made up of salt. Well, of course, I'm going to ask you to wear eye protection before breaking a bottle and breaking glass. and a protection in my hands I put the bottle inside I cover ah [Applause] [Applause] I have just finished putting the three elements that make up the refractory box the filling of the refractory box What is the function of this refractory box all the heat that goes away to generate inside the oven and that will tend to go downwards will be received by this refractory box. As these materials are extremely dense, they have great thermal conductivity and at the same time a high melting point, they will maintain the temperature that is generated and The moment the temperature inside the oven drops a little, they will quickly give us what it does is generate greater stability in the interior temperature of the oven, achieving much more even cooking and a much more sustained internal temperature over time. Once the refractory box is finished, there comes a second round similar to the first chain that we did, which will be the level of what is the final floor of the so that you take into account the amount of materials for 60 cm in diameter and about 6 cm in height, I will do it. What I used is a bucket of ground glass, half a bucket of sand and 4 kg of coarse salt. Be careful if you are going to use salt in the bottom of your oven. Because if you make a concrete slab for example that has iron in its component, be careful with the salt that It ends up leaking over time, it ends up causing corrosion on the iron and it will cause your slab to burst. The second course, I am not going to put it back in that position but rather I am going to move it a little out of phase, in fact half of it. Note that I have one here. Edge where these two bricks meet, I'm going to step up there. What comes next is to fill this also with brick, so there will be a single layer. I'm going to use bricks that are a little big. Pieces that I have scraps. We're ready to build what would be the body of the I am going to make the vertical body of the oven with these bricks that are 38 by 18 by 7 cm wide. I want the oven door to be in this small part. That is, the loading mouth and the ash cleaning mouth. So I will do it. What I'm going to do is mark where the door goes and I'm going to mark Don the bricks go So a brick goes here another one there another one there there there and I have the other one left there so This is going to be a loading and cleaning mouth of ash , notice that I am gluing the bricks of what is the circumference line inwards, it will probably seem to you that it is a bit loose. But don't worry because as the mud is pulled, it dries a little and has a pulling action. It's going to start sticking and of course when we row the whole way around you're going to realize that it fits well if it's a time to work slowly, neatly and patiently in order to be able to maintain the verticality well and to be able to maintain the filling of the joint well. pay attention to the filling of the joint of brick with brick ah well I just finished what would be the assembly of the cylinder of the oven I leave this opening now what we are going to do is let this pull rest a little let it unify let it be done a single block so that later I can continue working on it. If I start working now, the bricks will most likely start to come loose. So I'm going to let him throw it away. Tomorrow we're going to do the assembly of this little part that's missing to leave the ashtray down here. And then that's it. Let's see how we assemble the cone well. We're ready. A day passed. Look at how it was done. Having thrown the mud, how it took consistency. So what we're going to do now is cut here in these two bricks to make what would be the lintel that will be call I'm going to cross two irons to be able to support what would be the upper part and leave the cleaning mouth and well I already have what is the upper piece of the lintel now what I'm going to do is the second layer of the cylinder so I'm going to clean the entire On the way back I'm going to put the first one there in such a way that it stays even with the previous brick. If I'm not going to put it out of phase, I'm going to put it right there. What I just did with my fingers helps me do two things: the first is to generate holes that Then do the Suction Cup. When you glue the brick and the second one is to check that there are no stones, if you have any stones left when you put the brick in, it will make you rock and it won't sit at all. Well now I'm going to start with the second one. row Notice that in the first row we worked vertically and now I'm going to come horizontally, this one I'm going to put in full AND From here I will cut it in the middle to be able to maintain the curve much better . to work again with the cone, I finished making the cylinder first so that it would be 15 cm thick, then with a thick wall, I work much more comfortably, calmly and safely. Well, we now have the materials ready for our refractory cement, I want to tell you that this The refractory cement that I formulated has two purposes, only one is the adhesion of the refractory tiles and another is the jointing of the refractory tiles. It is not useful for making continuous plasters and it is not useful for making refractory tiles and bricks. That is another formulation that we are already working and we are going to share with you later so subscribe down there on the little red button what I did was present here the pieces that are whole now I'm going to cut these little triangles I'm going to start with the floor and once I have the glued floor I'm going to go to the wall first I cut everything and then I glue everything together 1 cm of joint we finish We have already taken all the joints now with a damp sponge you start cleaning and matching [Music] I want to mention one thing to you Notice that when I move in a continuous upward and downward movement like this, down here a joint was formed, it is very important. It is not advisable for the brick or for the tile in this case to touch the tile of the floor. This expansion joint must remain, which That is precisely why when these materials heat up they swell they expand And if I have them glued together what is going to happen is that it is going to fracture down there Or the brick is going to split So it is always important that the joint remains and [Music ] perfect, I just finished the covering of the first line. I've already gone all the way around, now I'm going to start making the second course, which I'm going to do until this line is up to where it is built, now with brick, we're going to do it there. Because from this line to the inside, then start the cone in this pass that I am doing with a sponge, you are going to check that there are no gaps between the middle and if so, with the same sponge, all the surpluses that you have left, you will take them towards that gap. and you are sealing And finally, notice that I know well here what the union of the tile with the brick at the top is, yes because since now you are going to work with mud it is important that the mud does not get in there because otherwise What would be the refractory layer of adhesion will be discontinuous . So it is important that you make sure to seal well all the little holes that you have left here. Well, let's go with the mouth of the oven. Yes, in this case I am going to use the mouth of a concrete mixer. old one that I had, it is most likely that you do not have a concrete mixer so only an iron and some legs will be enough. I leave you here some images of when I cut it and This is going to be presented in this place, it is going to go there and tell me It's going to help shape what would be the mouth of the oven. There's going to be a course of bricks on the outside and a course of bricks on the inside. I'm going to take out some pieces so that I have about four five six legs for support and anchoring. Finally I only left four legs on it. Now what I'm going to do is bend them a little here to increase the tie even more so that it has an L and improve the tie with respect to what the wall would be. Well, I took some measurements and I would like the cone is a little higher So what I decided is to add one more course of brick So I'm going to raise 5 cm so that the cone is a little more separated from this base ah ah and Well I've already started to put the half bricks that are going to To make the thickness of the wall here, we take into account that it has to leave me a space to later put the refractory tile here. So what I did was cut the back of the brick a little to refine it a little and leave me a better space. So Now you I'm going to show how we cut them now what I do is hit it with the spoon with the flat part facing out let's say not with what the spoon itself is on that side not not like this but in this sense to make the force like this and what I do is to mark first [Music] [Music] [Music] and well we finished doing what is the internal appearance now I am going to match it a little more I am going to do a general cleaning I am going to clean a little on the outside well there the prolig of That side where some adobes stuck out a little, make sure it's very round and now I'm going to start with the elephant's leg with the stone plinth below. I was also shaping the oven, which already took a lot of trouble. I was rounding it a little. I was cleaning the wall a little more. base and I have already gathered the stones that I am going to use to make the one down there, remember that this is going to be the height of the floor and it is going to have this Plinth that is going to help us so that when we are working around the oven we are not continually breaking the reboque I am going to settle it with mud with the same clay that we were working on in the oven and I am going to cover the joints with water-repellent concrete also to prevent the entry of moisture from there Well, I have finished settling the stones with mud now we are going to make the reboques and once we have the reboques we are going to take it together and we don't get so dirty we are now ready to begin the stage of thick reboque in the tandori oven of these two videos that I leave you here what I am going to show you today is a alternative in this case I am going to work with an extremely clayey soil. I already had it soaked before an extremely clayey soil. The other thing that you have opposite is the sand, so what I am going to show you is How to make a stabilized reboque in the middle of these two components We have the common soil, the soil that you can find in your house, so I am going to use two parts of this clay soil, one part of fine sand and one part of soil, the same soil that we used when we made the mixture for the oven. I am going to achieve a mixture that On the one hand, it will be too plastic or comfortably plastic because of the clay, but at the same time it will have structuring that the fine sand will give me and a little of the thick material that the Earth has, so in this way I will achieve a good formulation of course I'm going to add prickly pear slime as always, I leave you here a miniature so you can see our video of preparation of prickly pear slime and short straw This is the short straw that I'm going to use, it's a straw straw brava coiron is called a Our area, which is cut to more or less 5 cm, is a very fine straw and super resistant to this mixture of soils. I am also going to add half a part of fermented dung, the same one we have been using up until now. There is very little left to light it while I prepare the mixture. Take advantage of this to subscribe below. It's time to apply the thick reboque. Everything is ready. I have a small bottle with some perforations that will help me wet it. This is the most important thing if you don't wet your reboque when it's left. hanging, a fracture is generated and it will come off very easily, no more than 1 cm and thick and ah, I'm going to leave it now and pull it a little because then comes the fine plaster. Meanwhile, I already cleaned the stones and I'm going to take the joint of the stones Well, I'm going to make the covering of the last bit up here that I'm missing, since it's already conical, I'm also going to cut the tile in a conical way. Yes, so that when it goes inward, it's going to take up a little more space at the top. So it needs to be conical so that the shingle fits next to it. I have the reboque ready. Fino is already colored, it is the same as the mixture we made in this video. The only difference is that I added a little more liquid to make it a little crisper and I added it now. the ferrite just like in the video of the painting that I leave here the thumbnail also so you can see how to add color additives to these mixtures only now it remains to apply I'm going to apply it with a spoon I'm going to make a very thin layer it's between 3 and 4 mm at most I'm going to go all the way around and after that stay because I'll show you how to make this same one. reboque you will be left with a finish that is so fine, so shiny and so smooth that it will look like perfect marble. We have finished what the Fino reboque is, everything is already applied, now I am going to let it dry a little. This technique is called burnishing and what it does It is through a process of mechanical pressure to arrange the crystals that make up the mixture in such a way that they are extremely smooth. So what I usually use is a container of these bleach type, I cut them there a little and we are going to take out some little eyes that have the shape of one as if it were a drop As if it were a drop or a guitar pick Well what you have to enter is the finger back there yes because with what you are going to apply pressure and the container is good because it has this shape Thus concave allows one to hold the spatula well and to do the burnishing process well with the jelita. This what I am going to do is to make small pressures on the mixture. ah ev well, we are done, what is the burnishing of the surface, we are done. What is the fine coating of our oven has been really impeccable before doing the baptism of fire before telling you all the accessories that we can use in this oven and before asking you to subscribe below I am going to give you the key phrase yes more than 200 people comment below this video the phrase Diego Give it fire, I make a special video showing you how to make the implements, how to use them and I also give you a lot of recipes to use in this tandori oven which of course is multifunction disc grill skewer oven and a tremendous accessory to hang ingredients, don't stop commenting because a tremendous video is coming [Music]