The Game of Thrones book series is called There are five books so far, with more still There are also some side books which describe And there's a prequel series called the a knight and his squire set ninety years before Compared to the main story, which is huge &amp; Egg are [relatively] short simple and sweet, But they do have mysteries and secrets of with the main series. The first story is called The Hedge Knight as they're caught up in events that change The Hedge Knight was adapted to a graphic Miller and Mike Crowell - which you'll So what happens in The Hedge Knight, and what Our hero is a young man called Dunk. He wasn't born into a noble family or magic was an orphan, in the slums of King's Landing, of Flea Bottom [like Davos!]. Dunk isn't particularly smart or skilled, has a good heart - a sense of right and When Dunk was a kid, a knight called Ser Arlan Arlan wasn't a fancy noble knight - he wandering from place to place, wherever a Hedge knights have a bad reputation - some But Ser Arlan taught Dunk the values of a and to fight for what's right. At the start of the story, Ser Arlan dies He spent his whole life serving Arlan, so [Who should Dunk become?] Dunk takes up Arlan's sword and decides Thing is, you can't just decide to be a You have to be knighted by another knight And it's implied that Dunk was never knighted. He tells people that Arlan knighted him, but Dunk always gets awkward and evasive when to himself that he's not a knight. But maybe being a true knight is about more it really means to be a hero in a complex Dunk heads for a tournament at Ashford - a And along the way, Dunk meets a young boy. He's completely bald, and he says his name He's confident and cheeky and asks Dunk Dunk refuses at first, so Egg just follows They've got sort of a Shrek and Donkey odd at first, but gradually become unlikely best The tournament is full of excitement and splendour and entertainers, famous lords and knights.. Warriors from all over Westeros come to joust Tarlys Freys and Dondarrions - and Targaryens. The Hedge Knight is set ninety years ago, So the king is Daeron Targaryen, and his queen Dorne by marrying a Dornish princess]. Daeron's son and heir and Hand of the King Baelor is a famous knight - he's chivalrous, Baelor comes to the tournament with his son And Baelor's brother Prince Maekar comes Maekar has another son named Aemon, but he be a maester at the Citadel - Aemon grows at the Night's Watch 90 years later. Dunk meets Aerion, and learns he's a total vain.. think, like, Joffrey with better hair. And Dunk hears that Daeron and Aegon are missing Dunk wanders the tournament, and gets a crush show. He hires her to paint a sigil on his shield, an elm tree with a shooting star - cause night. And instead of calling himself Ser Dunk, he So Dunk creates an identity for himself as But what kind of knight is he? Is he cruel and vain like Aerion, or chivalrous What does it really mean to be a hero? That night, Prince Aerion attacks the puppet Cause Tanselle performed a puppet show about himself a Targaryen dragon, so he gets offended So Dunk instinctively runs in and beats up It's the right thing to do - but it's Westeros is unfair, and hedge knights are that prince is a cunt] - Dunk could be punished spared]. So is this heroism or stupidity? In Tanselle's puppet show, she says "All It means we all have some desire to be a romantic - and that feeling is ridiculous and foolish Aerion almost has Dunk killed on the spot, It turns out that Egg is not some random peasant son of Prince Maekar, and grandson of the Egg explains that his father Maekar wanted as his squire. But Daeron hates riding and fighting, so instead Egg's head to hide his silvery-gold blond Egg says Daeron didn't need to shave, cause He mentions that their uncle Baelor also has Dornish mother. All this talk about Targaryen hair colour Jon Snow is the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and The story is showing us that not all Targaryens Targaryen's son, but have the dark hair So anyway Daeron went on a bender, but Egg so that's why he attached himself to Dunk. Egg apologises for lying about his identity, to get what he wanted - implying that Dunk to become a squire. Egg points out that he and Dunk are both from the slums of Flea Bottom, while Prince Aegon So the story often explores Dunk and Egg's social classes. Aerion demands that Dunk be punished. So Dunk asks for a trial by combat, and Aerion A trial of seven is fight of seven men against So Dunk and Aerion each need to find six allies, This is pretty unfair for Dunk, because Prince and his father and brother to fight with him. It's much harder for Dunk to find allies, want to risk their life to fight for a hedge But Dunk and Egg find some allies. Egg knows one guy, and a couple more want the jousting]. And this [absolute chad] bloke Lyonel Baratheon - this is the first trial of seven in a miss out. Lyonel is a famous knight - he's called laughing at his opponents while he beats them Lyonel is an ancestor of King Bobby B and And we know from the history book that years that's another story. Dunk also recruits young Raymun Fossoway. Raymun has a falling out with his cousin Steffon. Cause Steffon betrays Dunk by promising to - cause Aerion promises to make him a lord. This creates a split in House Fossoway that line are the red-apple Fossoways, while Raymun's would rather be an unripe green apple than So on the morning of the trial, Aerion has one more. He begs the crowd for a volunteer, asks "ARE Cause every knight swears an oath to defend But all these knights and high lords refuse Cause the nobility like Steffon Fossoway have prince even when their prince is wrong. It's only a poor lowborn man like Dunk, to lose, who's willing to fight for what's of this feudal class system. But just when all hope seems lost, Prince his brother Maekar and his nephews], and says Aerion. So maybe there is hope for justice. The combat begins, and fourteen armoured knights Dunk gets knocked off his horse, and Aerion Dunk is not as skilled or trained as Prince But once they're down in the mud, Dunk has Cause Dunk has experience fighting dirty on able to defeat Aerion and end the trial. So for a moment it seems that this Game of the heroic underdog gets justice over the But-- Prince Baelor is acting weird, all confused When they pull off his helmet, some of his in the fight. So Prince Baelor Breakspear falls to the ground Everyone is horrified by Baelor's death. He was heir to the throne, loved by all, everyone So at the funeral, Baelor's son Valarr asks the sake of Dunk the hedge knight? What kind of justice is this? Dunk speaks with Baelor's brother Maekar. Maekar was always resentful living in the of like how Stannis is resentful of Robert. But Maekar reveals that that it was his mace but now he has to live with the knowledge [like how Stannis feels guilt that he killed So like Valarr, Maekar asks 'what's the Dunk says that maybe Baelor dying to save needs Dunk. Maybe Dunk has a special destiny. Baelor's death is actually the fulfilment Cause before the trial, Daeron comes to Dunk Daeron feels like he's a failure and a disappointment and uses drinking and sex to cope - similar But Daeron also says that he had a dream about In the dream, there was a dragon, and the Daeron hopes that the dead dragon means that the dragon who dies is Baelor. This fits the pattern of many prophecies and in an unexpected way. Many Targaryens have prophetic dreams that We know from the history book that after The die in a plague. When King Daeron's other sons die, Maekar But then Maekar dies in battle, Daeron the wildfire cause he thinks it'll transform in a big ol succession pickle. Who should be the next king? Daeron and Aerion both had kids, but no one So they offer Maester Aemon the throne, but So the next King of Westeros is Egg - he And King Egg chooses Dunk to lead his Kingsguard highest position for a knight in Westeros. King Egg's rule was difficult, with rebellious And later in life, he became convinced that - he was obsessed with tryina hatch some wildfire, and ancient lore. And this dream of dragons ended in tragedy King Egg and most of his family and Dunk. One of the only survivors was Egg's granddaughter saved from the fire by Dunk before he died. Then while Summerhall burned behind her, Rhaella of Viserys and Daenerys, and the father of So maybe Dunk was right - there was a day If it wasn't for Dunk saving Rhaella, Rhaegar been born, the whole series wouldn't have And all of this began with Dunk seeing the A comet, or bleeding star, is part of the save the world - Rhaegar believed that his star. So Dunk is deeply connected to the prophetic But will this destiny save Westeros, or lead Dunk says we never know what the morrow will All he can do is try his best to be a true The Hedge Knight asks 'what does it mean It's clearly not about being a highborn Aerion's a low quality individual. And it's not about being skilled or smart, romantic impulse that led him to be a hero It's not about a special ceremony, and it's both lie to get to the tourney. A big part of what makes Dunk a hero is his Noble lords and knights have too much to lose But Dunk has nothing to lose but his honour, others. As a lowborn commoner, he's more sympathetic And Dunk's humble origins allow him to beat tricks to beat the fancy prince. Humility helps make Dunk a true knight. So at the end of story, Maekar offers for But instead, Dunk takes Egg on the road, to will help Egg grow into a better man, and The story criticises a corrupt system of nobility, where anyone with courage and strength and foot tall bloke helps too]. 90 years later, Brienne's story explores Like Dunk, she's technically not a knight, But she's strong and brave and selfless her more of a true knight than almost any In Book 4, Brienne describes an old shield like Dunk's shield with the tree and star. So for years, fans have speculated that Brienne author George Martin confirmed that Dunk is So Dunk's legacy as a humble true knight At the end of The Hedge Knight, Dunk &amp; Egg two more Dunk &amp; Egg stories after The Hedge And you can get all of them on audiobook for with Audible. A Knight of The Seven Kingdoms collects all by Harry Lloyd, the actor who played Viserys Or, you could get Dune or His Dark Materials. Audible members get an audiobook each month, you keep the audiobooks. You can listen while you ride with your squire, Sign up at audible.com/asx. Comment below if you want more videos about Thanks to the artists, and check out the articles Thanks for watching, and thanks to the Patrons, Prince Jaehaerys, Flinted Steel, Marianne Cheers.