I spent the last week 3D printing every from custom masks, to prototypes that to a movie accurate head for the sexiest Teridax. I even upgraded and created first time in this very video, to fulfill You can blame Bambu Labs for this, a whole mess of filaments, then told me I could audience. So, yeah, it's a buttload of Bionicles. high-end quality and detail. I was printing within an hour of opening the box, thanks to into the machine through the MakerWorld platform. active flow control and vibration compensation time. I don't know what that means, cause I don't cause the machine just WORKS and everything looks angle and sizes I print the parts at, to get the but I've only broken like TWO parts, and that's in a dumb way as a joke. Every other part has been even as strong or smooth as their PETG filament. System, the AMS Lite that comes with the multi-color 3D printing. Like this Phantoka which originally came in solid silver, but inside is translucent orange. And I'll talk the most detailed thing I've printed. No paint Nothing else can do this at this price range. To convince you that 3D printing is totally cause Bambu wants to sell printers, and they've But more than that, the segment of the Bionicle absolutely incredible, and I want to celebrate that Bambu has enabled ME to make in turn. CATEGORIES! In my experimentation, I've discovered four accurate versions of stuff, cool stuff that and things that really aren't lego pieces or these Nuva Symbols that only appeared in comics fulfillment stuff, but there's less of it than Now... I don't have enough filaments in perfectly, so expect a lot of the models I Though Bambu does have an insane selection of so when I eventually print final items for much closer. Most of the models in this video cause I needed to print a lot of it can print with such thin layers that the lines if you've got more time, every one of these MOVIE REPLICAS! Some of this stuff is just...obvious. in the movie, was the result of a prototype so VASTLY different that it's hard to even see it the movie version is just a couple clicks and a full MOC that makes the REST of his body match sized totally wrong for the stock build, but We get more complex with this multi-piece MOCs of Roodaka to recreate the movie look using but I don't have time for that! Just how I always imagined her... Meanwhile this guy made an entirely custom Mask of didn't post the files for it so My favorite creation in this category, simple only ever seen in the movie, which I was able to no paint, all plastic. I couldn't find an so as fans of folkloric trickster gods might say, we're stuck with the puck. But still... This STUFF THAT NEVER EXISTED! This is Mallum. He's an apple now. It's a choice, he likes it, and I'd thank you I owe an eternal debt to Megawillbot for the Bionicle Timbs, the Toa knees I'll I want nothing more than to infiltrate their in there. Things you people wouldn't believe. back when they made those Transformers form in a big way. There's something will rot and wither and- in defiance of the many possessions which will bear no memory of scratches I give them whilst I still am. This Needless to say this is NOT the standard for to solve a problem most fandoms don't have. been limited to just a handful of to making a Star Wars OC and being forced to In years 1 and 2 you could at least get masks in but after that you run out of options. with crazy detail, that does just face... But now people can print out some of which look more canon-ready than others, Alternatively there's people making toys! Like spec designs for the dastardly or my favorite canon mask design of all time, I multi-color printed it, and it looks at this MOC made by brazybonkles, good Speaking of stuff that's Karzani's fault, Toa Inika masks. I never liked the rubber masks, but mostly cause the eyes were and then they DIDN'T. Their heads were beneath the organic masks according the I'll talk more about this when I finally reach but in the end I find these stud-headed Inika have been.....unless....NO, I'm getting Anyway I also printed Vorikiiiiii, a toa Mata this Prototype video that can actually hold stuff, IMPROVEMENTS! This is my favorite category, with a lot of stuff The Toa Mata build is the most iconic, yet they possess a flaw that's at creations. One hundred and one ways to give these Thanks to Megawillbot and HeartFoxx, the dream system or technic builds. I had to adjust joints to fit tight, and create a new file for of motion. If I may say so, the results are For Toa Nuva there's these bendable addition of ball pieces in place of the legs work as arms for certain toa, but for put up by M06Z. Pretty cool for Inika-build good way to fit them into the the standard Mata match. It's good but it's not quite perfect, not I have no modeling experience whatsoever, but used BambuStudio to chop and cut and combine them or less match what's been in my head for DECADES. and I'd HIGHLY encourage anyone who sees Overall I'm quite proud of em, and while I was childhood dreams. Like Tahu's fire sword, blade. Y'know, to match the brick-built Tahu. earlier? Well here's the Toa Inika heads, with the so the eyes FINALLY work like the designers do that traditional injection molding couldn't it looks SO good, and you can find this and my go to Maker World and open the projects multicolor printing right away, you'll just All I've done is scratch the absolute SURFACE of which is only one corner of an insanely only expand broader and broader, so I encourage the description, as well as affiliate links I started this project with 0 experience, so anyone wanting to dip their toes in. I'll one exploring different fandoms and what people and thank you for watching. This is