Since the 7th century and the rise of Islam, many including Turkey, Iran, or Indonesia. This these other regions, this part of the Muslim world the indigenous peoples in the region lost their In the Maghreb, however, this phenomenon in Algeria and Morocco where the local We are here in the Atlas Mountains of Morocco. In this part of the country, it is not rare to encounter young and old alike, especially women, who have a the Moroccan dialect. How is this possible if not the majority, consider an Arab nation? Why have some populations abandoned their we really consider that Islamization process is This is what we will explore in this episode. The Arab invasions were not the first that indigenous peoples known since the time of the seen many invaders come and go, from Antiquity The first to arrive were the Phoenicians originally from present-day Lebanon, city-state. Naturally, in Carthage, the which likely coexisted with Berber languages, came to take advantage of the lucrative trade Carthage gained independence and grew into a rich of the western Mediterranean until its fall to In the four centuries that followed, the Mediterranean coasts of Africa the province of Africa Proconsularis and with the Roman Empire extending its influence to the two Mauretanias were of lesser importance. as a rear guard to protect Hispania from Amazigh they became the center of major revolts All in all, it appears that the Romanization and concentrating mainly on the urban areas of Numidia particularly the tribes of the mountains their religious practices, customs, and languages. But this was about to radically change. By the 5th century, the decline of the Rome's weakening grip opened the door to the Vandals, a Germanic tribe from the Iberian invaded Roman Africa. They quickly seized and captured Carthage in 439, establishing However, their rule was precarious. struggled to control the vast territories populations, particularly the Zenata, The Vandals also contributed to widespread a doctrine that denied the divinity of Jesus, and Church lands, thereby weakening the power of largely abandoned or destroyed, leading In 533, Byzantine Emperor Justinian launched an forces swiftly crushed the Vandal kingdom. temporary respite. While they restored some order the Amazigh in the interior lands. To make matters of the Lawata, a nomadic camel-herding people from Byzacena (Tunisia) and Numidia (northeastern Their invasion led to the decline and eventual areas. This intrusion marked a crucial turning The resulting chaos would significantly contribute As for the two Mauretanias (modern-day it's nearly impossible to know what was Arabs due to the scant documentation from In any case, the Maghreb, then composed nomadic Zenetes, Vandal descendants, and Byzantines, was fragmented and chaotic. It was in this disorganized context that the Arab conquerors appeared in the mid-7th century. After the Prophet's death in 632, Islamic armies Tripolitania. In 647, a small Arab army defeated looting the country. The real conquest began founding of Kairouan. Although raids into Morocco it finally collapsed around 700. This marked the Without going too much into the details, we can well-organized state that could have countered their advance they only faced fragmented resistance from The Roman-African urban population, exhausted The taxes imposed by the Arabs were made their rule easier to accept - at least in the by administrative and fiscal reforms that However, Islamization did not mean immediate languages and traditions while embracing Islam. Actually, Islamization itself was quite uneven. New cities like Kairouan and Fez Amazigh tribes in rural areas was slower. Some Amazigh groups converted early on, while the large nomadic tribes of the Sahara Guanches of the Canary Islands never converted to until the 12th century before being eradicated This leads us to the question: how Just as with Islamization, Arabization did not region. In fact, in some ways, the process seems for the simple reason that, in the western which could have imposed the state's was, considering the duration of In Morocco, the great Berber revolt of 739-740 region. This revolt erupted in response to the who were tasked with controlling the Maghreb crucial role in the conquest of Spain, the were treated as second-class citizens by the Arab even after their conversion, which contradicted had banned these practices, the military authorities to reintroduce these taxes and To reclaim their power, the Amazigh tribes of an Islamic sect from the East that was persecuted in the Maghreb and found support among the which promised a society where all Muslims resonated with the Amazigh tribes. and the Umayyads were expelled from the Maghreb While the Umayyads retained control over Ifriqiya the rest of the Maghreb slipped from their independent Amazigh states. This revolt marked Arabs and led to the establishment of the first What about Arabic? The Arabization of the Maghreb occurred in 2 main phases. The 1st one, spanning from the in urban areas like Kairouan, Tunis, Tlemcen, and of the Prophet and the founder of Moroccan Moroccan Amazigh tribes who had fought against as they clearly saw the benefits of this process, strengthening their own power by aligning with reinforced their influence in the emerging state. the language of state administration, largely class and there were no viable alternatives: and their regional variations were so pronounced However, it was not until the 11th century that a marked by the arrival of nomadic Bedouin tribes. These tribes introduced Arabic into the rural areas the language and culture of the Amazigh. In the 10th century, the Abbasid power, was overthrown in Tunisia by the Fatimids, conquered Egypt, helped by local discontent, while leaving the governance of the Maghreb although strategic, led to significant unrest. the Zirids, broke away from their vassalage the Abbasid power. In an attempt to reassert Arab nomadic tribes to re-establish control. These Bedouin tribes did not conquer the and then dispersed. In fact, it was the Amazigh their own interests. The Zirids and Hammadids, used these tribes as military forces in tribal disputes ultimately led to the victory (modern-day Tunisia), plunging the region the instability to establish small kingdoms, but A century later, the Beduin tribes were still in the rise of the Moroccan Almohad dynasty. Ironically, this defeat did not halt their incorporated Bedouin contingents into their various regions, including Al Haouz in Morocco, leading Over the following centuries, alliances between Arabs and Amazigh The key question remains: why over Amazigh languages while Arabs The first hypothesis is one of numbers. Arabs were so numerous that the Amazigh simply merged into a new pool of genes over generations and simply dissappeared. However, this doesn't hold up. All these when taken together, represented at most entered North Africa over a period of more than a during their invasion in 429, numbered around the Vandals' influence completely vanished after the Beduin tribes persisted, contributing This Arabization cannot be explained by an or by the extermination of the Amazigh. On the triumphed over the disruptive Arab elements and In reality, Amazigh and Arabs often connected like the Zenata or Lawata during the Byzantine era, weakened constant threats to the countryside. These actions nomadic camel herders entering Africa Proconsularis and Numidia. assimilated with the new Arab arrivals, who was viewed as sacred. For the Amazigh, including higher social status and claims to This Arabization process was so effective nearly vanished, surviving only in mountainous Some suggest that the Arabization of the Maghreb Amazigh languages belong to the same linguistic possible that the similarities in structure transition from Amazigh to Arabic smoother From a linguistic standpoint, it was probably Latin only established itself durably on took hold in Semitic or Afroasiatic regions, which Some even suggest that remnants of the which may help explain why Arabic But there is, at present, no With the demographic growth following many Amazigh migrated from the mountains to the plains and cities. This movement could have favored a linguistic and but in reality, it often led to the favor of Arabic, the language of state The partial abandonment of native languages can be attributed to the absence of a centralized The Persians, with a thousand-year history had a strong tradition of state administration, even though they once used Aramaic as a the Amazigh lacked a unified state or language, between regions difficult. Had the Arab conquests states, with a dominant Amazigh tribe imposing its own it's likely that this language would the region, similar to Amharic in Ethiopia. But history had other plans. Now, it's important to say that the Arabization And with the current revival of the change the course of the linguistic history Thank you for watching and