In the early 1990's, Rare had a dream. It was a dream of a fantasy realm with pirates and magical creatures, and a young boy who sets off on a grand adventure to save the world. That dream was a game and its name was Dream, and unfortunately, it would never come to be. But from its ashes would rise one of the most prolific and beloved platforming franchises that ever existed, and the series that Rare is arguably most well-known for. This is the story of a bear named Banjo and a bird named Kazooie. *subtitles by CloudConnection* Banjo-Kazooie: the game about a laid-back bear and his loudmouth bird companion setting off on an adventure against an evil witch. It was not only a tremendous success, but it also paved the way for a franchise that is synonymous with both Rare and Nintendo. The late 90's saw the genesis of the 3D platformer, largely due to the popularity of titles for the Nintendo 64 and Sony PlayStation, and while Banjo-Kazooie was not the first one to come out, it certainly left a huge mark on those who played it. From 1998 to 2008, five Banjo-Kazooie games came out across a handful of different consoles, but since then, the series has laid dormant, with Rare moving on to other games and franchises. However, now that Banjo and Kazooie are coming to Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, we may very well see a rebirth for the bear and bird that captured the hearts of so many players. So in this series of videos, I'm going to be looking back on all five Banjo-Kazooie games and examining whether or not they still hold up today, and we begin, of course, with the game that started it all: Banjo-Kazooie. Rare has a longstanding history in the video game industry, founded in 1984 by brothers Tim and Chris Stamper as Ultimate Play the Game, who published several titles for the ZX Spectrum, one of the most successful home computers released in the United Kingdom. However, when the company learned of the Nintendo Famicom,they decided to switch focus. They rebranded themselves as Rare, and began work on games for the Famicom and its American counterpart, the Nintendo Entertainment System, including Wizards and Warriors, R.C. Pro-Am, and Battletoads. Then, in the early 90's, Rare invested in Silicon Graphics workstations, which allowed them to experiment with 3D graphics at a time before they were commonly used. Nintendo was interested in Rare's work, so they bought a 49% stake in the company, making them a second-party Nintendo developer. This partnership led to Rare developing Donkey Kong Country, one of the best Super Nintendo games ever released. Not only was it a tightly-designed platformer that brought Donkey Kong back into the spotlight, but it was also a technical achievement thanks to the use of pre-rendered 3D models as the basis for the game's sprites, which gave it a visual style that was unique and innovative. Rare wanted to use the Silicon Graphics technology again, this time in an RPG set in a fantasy world filled with pirates, codenamed Project Dream. Led by Donkey Kong Country designer Gregg Mayles, Dream was an isometric RPG that starred the young boy Edison fighting against monsters and pirates. While it was originally designed for the Super Nintendo, Rare soon shifted development to the Nintendo 64 in order to take advantage of the new hardware, but the developers realized that Edison wasn't working as a main character, so they explored other opportunities, eventually landing on a human-like bear carrying a backpack, which would have been used to store items and equipment. Unfortunately, Project Dream was simply too ambitious for the studio, so they fell back to the platforming gameplay they were more familiar with. While the game initially had a 2.5-D perspective, almost like an upgrade to Donkey Kong Country, another game came out that changed everything: Super Mario 64. When Rare saw Mario 64, they realized that Nintendo was designing the future of 3D platformers, and took heavy inspiration for their own game, eventually turning it into the project we all know and love, thanks to a team of programmers led by Chris Sutherland. The game was titled Banjo-Kazooie, after its two protagonists Banjo and Kazooie, the former of which was added to Rare's kart racer Diddy Kong Racing in 1997, alongside Conker the Squirrel, which allowed Rare to tease both Banjo-Kazooie and the then in-development Twelve Tales: Conker 64, the game that eventually turned into Conker's Bad Fur Day. Banjo-Kazooie was released on June 29th, 1998, to both critical and commercial success, selling 3.65 million copies and becoming the 10th best selling game on the Nintendo 64. The game and its sequel, Banjo-Tooie, would later be remastered and ported to Xbox Live Arcade in 2008 and 2009, respectively, courtesy of 4J Studios, the company best known for porting Minecraft to several different consoles. These ports include updated textures, widescreen support, a framerate of 60 frames per second, leaderboards and some gameplay changes that we'll discuss later. This Xbox version is available to download on both the Xbox 360 and Xbox One, and is also included on the Rare Replay collection, and will be the version that I'll be playing for both this video and Banjo-Tooie. So what made Banjo-Kazooie so special, and if the game is so readily available now, is it still worth picking up? That's what we're here to talk about, so let's dive right in. When the game begins, we meet the evil witch Gruntilda, or Grunty for short, who believes herself to be the prettiest thing in all the land, at least until her magic cauldron tells her about the young bear Tooty, which gets Gruntilda all kinds of jealous. So she sets off to kidnap Tooty and steal her beauty for herself, unknowingly alerting Tooty's brother Banjo and his breegull companion eternally glued to the inside of Banjo's backpack, Kazooie. Banjo and Kazooie set off on an adventure to save Tooty from Grunty's clutches, with the help of tutorial master Bottles the Mole and the best shaman in the game, Mumbo Jumbo. The two enter Gruntilda's Lair, a giant hubworld with entrances to every level in the game. Once they travel through every world and make it to the top of the lair, they confront Gruntilda in a climactic showdown and rescue Tooty. A simple plot with a simple premise that hits all the expected beats, and that's really all you could ask for with a game like this. Aside from a small bunch of cutscenes at the beginning and end of the game, there isn't much in the way of story development. And that's absolutely fine; Banjo-Kazooie doesn't set itself up in a way that expects you to anticipate a story-heavy experience. It makes it clear from the beginning that the plot is merely there as a justification for your protagonists to go on their adventure. No, Banjo-Kazooie focuses more on the strange people and creatures you interact with, but we'll talk more about them later on. You play as both Banjo and Kazooie, and they control as you'd expect if you've played a platformer like this. Right as you start the game, all you can do is run around and jump, but you're immediately presented with Bottles, who offers you the game's tutorial. This tutorial will take you all around the beginning area, known as Spiral Mountain, where Bottles has set up training challenges to get you familiar with the basic moveset. You can refuse this tutorial if you're already comfortable with the game, which is great for repeated playthroughs, but I'd definitely recommend it for beginners so they can get used to the fundamentals of movement and camera controls. You can move the camera around Banjo in every area where the camera isn't fixed, and there's also a useful feature where you can hold the camera behind Banjo, so adjusting your angle for platforming is much simpler. Banjo is a pretty mobile character, thanks to assistance from his trusty bird friend Kazooie. Kazooie can perform the Feathery Flap by jumping while in the air, essentially acting as a hover that allows you to stay in the air longer, and the two can also perform the Flap Flip, which is a simple backflip. Both of these moves are essential for getting around in this game, and thanks to Banjo's solid speed and decent weight, you should become comfortable with basic movement very quickly. In terms of attacks, Banjo and Kazooie also have a few tricks up their sleeve. First is Banjo's Claw Swipe, which... absolutely blows. It has very limited range and when you use it, Banjo automatically moves forward a bit and can't turn left or right until he stops. Beyond the most basic of enemies, it isn't useful at all, but thankfully, it's replaced almost immediately afterwards with the Roll attack. Not only is it faster than the Claw Swipe, but it feels more accurate and gives Banjo a small burst of speed, which is great for keeping your momentum going. The best attack in the game by far, however, is the Rat-a-tat Rap, where Kazooie sticks her head out and pecks enemies with her beak. You have to be in the air to use it, but you can actually turn around while attacking, which is excellent if you need to adjust your angle. This should be your default attack, as you can quickly jump and immediately Rat-a-tat Rap to deal with enemies nice and easy. Beyond that, you've also got the Beak Barge, where Banjo crouches and Kazooie lunges her beak forward. You can use this to kill enemies, but it's slower than the Rat-a-tat Rap and has the same locked movement problem as before, so you'll mainly just use it to activate wall switches. Finally, Banjo can climb up objects like trees and ladders, and swim in and under water, provided he has enough air. Like I said, you can skip the tutorial and head straight to Gruntilda's Lair, but it's still worth it to explore Spiral Mountain, because there are some Extra Honeycomb pieces lying around which, if you collect all of them, will grant you a larger health bar right out of the gate. That's an amazing way to make beginners want to learn how to play the game, since you can only get the Honeycomb pieces by using the moves you learn here, so you gain a tangible reward rather than just the satisfaction of knowing the basic moves. Speaking of moves, you'll also learn a whole set of new abilities as you travel through the game. Molehills are hidden in the first six worlds, and if you approach them, Bottles will come out and teach you a new move. Learning these moves is critical for not only completing your main objectives, but also for traveling further through Gruntilda's Lair. All of these moves serve a unique purpose, and are a fantastic way to extend Banjo's capabilities beyond his basic movement. In the first world, you'll learn about the Beak Buster, which acts as a simple ground pound and how to shoot Blue Eggs as projectiles. This isn't my go-to attack, but it is a good method of dealing with far-away enemies. The best move by far, however, is the Talon Trot, where Kazooie carries Banjo around on her back. Not only is it much faster than walking, but you can also get up steep slopes that Banjo can't climb this way. Except for tight platforming situations, the Talon Trot is the best way to move around, and you'll definitely appreciate it as the game goes on. The second world introduces you to Shock Jump Pads, which let you perform a super jump that helps you reach high-up areas, and Flight Pads, which gives Kazooie the ability to fly. Flying is incredibly fun because the open-world design allows you to fly around these areas really quick, though you need to collect red feathers in order to stay in the air and to perform the Beak Bomb attack, which you learn later in the game. This ability shoots Kazooie forward while she's flying, and I actually really hate using this move. Your direction is locked when you use it, so if you aren't aimed just right, you'll end up crashing into a wall, and the only thing it's useful for, besides when it's mandatory, is when you want to zip around a level really fast. Moving on, you'll also learn the Wonderwing ability, which grants you temporary invincibility. You need gold feathers to use this move, which are pretty rare... [AUDIENCE PITY LAUGHS AT CLOUDCONNECTION AND HIS STUPID JOKE] ...but you're impervious to just about everything when you use it, and it instantly kills anything that touches you, so it's handy to use in a pinch. Finally, there's two pairs of shoes that Kazooie can wear. The Wading Boots let you travel through hazards like quicksand or swamp water without taking any damage, and the Turbo Trainers make Kazooie run incredibly fast, both of which are cool, but because you can't use them whenever you want, the situations in which they help you are pretty limited. What's great is that most of these moves feel very natural to perform, and you gain just enough new abilities without it feeling overwhelming. And you'll need all these moves in order to accomplish the main goal of Banjo-Kazooie: collecting things. You've no doubt heard the term "collect-a-thon" associated with this game, and while I don't like to call it that myself, it is an apt description. In Banjo-Kazooie, you collect things and use those things in order to progress through the game. It's as simple as that. You can think of each collectable as a sort of mini-objective for each world; find enough of this, find enough of that, and so on. However, while many of the collectables can be picked up with ease, a lot of them require some platforming or puzzle-solving to get to them, so it isn't just a matter of walking around to each location and gathering everything you need. Your main collectables are jigsaw pieces, also known as Jiggies, which are used to unlock the game's worlds. There are 10 Jiggies in each level, including Gruntilda's Lair, adding up to 100 total. When you have enough Jiggies, you can enter them into jigsaw puzzles, which open up a new level once they're filled. It's actually really nice to see a main collectable that ties into the game itself, even if fundamentally, it works the same as Mario 64's Power Stars. But equally as important are the Musical Notes, of which there are 100 in each world. These unlock Note Doors in Gruntilda's Lair, allowing you to access new areas. What's weird is that in the N64 version, you weren't actually collecting the Notes. You picked up Notes as you would expect, but if you left the world or died, the number of Notes you have is saved as your best Note Score for that world, and if you came back to that level, you would start at 0 Notes and would have to collect them again. That would be fine if the Notes were optional, but because they're necessary to play through the rest of the game, it becomes much more tedious when you have to start over just to get a higher Note Score, especially on the later levels. However, in the Xbox versions, the Notes simply act as standard collectables, meaning you only need to collect each one once, as it should be. This alone makes the Xbox port the only version of Banjo-Kazooie you should play nowadays, because the Note Score system just doesn't work for this kind of game. Moving on, you'll also find Mumbo Tokens scattered around each level and Gruntilda's Lair. You can bring these Tokens to Mumbo Jumbo and he'll transform you into various forms depending on the level you're in, including a termite who can climb up slippery slopes, a crocodile who can fit in small spaces and travel through swamp water unharmed, a walrus who can travel through icy water but is otherwise useless, a pumpkin that can also fit in small spaces but is otherwise useless, and a bee which allows you to fly, because, you know, Banjo and Kazooie can't already do that. These transformations are mainly just used to collect Jiggies, and since they're restricted to their specific world and the area immediately outside of it, you won't get a lot of use out of them. Not that you'd want to, anyway, because these transformations, on the whole, just plain suck. Most aren't as fast as Banjo, and except for the crocodile, none of them can fight back. Instead, it's best to think of them as just prerequisites for other collectables. Anyway, Banjo can pick up honeycomb pieces to restore health, as well as Extra Lives to give him... well, an extra life, but there are also those Extra Honeycomb pieces that I mentioned earlier in each level. Collecting six of them will extend Banjo's health bar by one, but there are only two in each level, and they're some of the most well-hidden collectables in the game. While the game is fairly easy most of the time, there are situations where you can lose a lot of health really quickly, so being able to take more damage is definitely worth it. Then there's the Jinjos, these little creatures that are trapped in each world that need rescuing, by which I mean you just run up to the Jinjo and touch it and it magically flies off, which I guess it couldn't do without Banjo right next to him? There are five of them in each level, and collecting all five gets you a Jiggy. Every world also has a Witch Switch, a switch which, once activated, allows you to grab a Jiggy in Gruntilda's Lair. Have you found the pattern here yet? Most of these collectables exist only to make it possible for you to collect specific Jiggies. That isn't necessarily a bad thing, though, because while it may sound tedious to just collect things over and over again, the levels and objectives are varied enough so that the game doesn't feel monotonous. Banjo-Kazooie leans heavily on exploration by spreading its collectables across every corner of the worlds, which means you'll need to scour through each level in order to find everything. You don't need to get every single collectable to beat the game, but considering how helpful they are, not to mention how many Jiggies and Notes are required to reach the final boss, you might as well go for 100% completion anyway. This game takes a more methodological approach by presenting puzzles for the player to complete in addition to platforming challenges. There are several collectables that are in plain sight and simply require that you to get to them, but you'll also need to use the moves you unlock to solve puzzles or perform specific actions to gather other collectables. Banjo-Kazooie's gameplay isn't extremely complicated, and on a fundamental level, it still holds up fairly well, and even though the idea of constantly collecting things mayseem repetitive on the surface, the game manages to balance that out with a ridiculous amount of charm and personality. And now it's time to talk about what turns Banjo-Kazooie from just a solid game into something truly magical. First, Banjo-Kazooie is a fantastic looking game for the system it was originally designed for. In terms of N64 graphics, Banjo looks amazing, mostly thanks to the art style and color palette, and the Xbox version just looks even better. Every character stands out because of their exaggerated designs, with googly eyes on everything and rounded body parts for a simple but elegant look, and the worlds are bright and vibrant, with fantastic color and texture choices that help to set the mood and tone of each level. Major props to Steve Mayles and the rest of the artists, because their work helps make this game really come alive. As does the music composed by Grant Kirkhope, who composed several soundtracks at Rare, as well as games like Kingdoms of Amalur and Mario + Rabbids. On the whole, the soundtrack has a cheerful, bouncy vibe that fits this style of gameplay and art direction perfectly. The songs compliment the areas they play in wonderfully, and even outside the game itself, the compositions are so catchy, and while they're clearly made using synthesized instruments, something about the sounds used and how they mesh together makes it still pleasant to listen to. But it isn't just how good the songs are; the sound design plays a big part in this as well. Many songs have several variations that play in specific parts of a level, such as underwater or around a particular point-of-interest, and these variations transition seamlessly between each other, which is accomplished by fading specific instruments in and out depending on where Banjo is. So the flow of the music isn't broken, which makes it easier for the songs to stick in your head. And while we're talking about sound, I should mention that each character speaks in repeated grunts and voice clips rather than actual dialogue, which is either endearing or annoying depending on the character. [BANJO-KAZOOIE NOISES] I can see how some people would find this irritating, especially with characters like Gruntilda, who is actually voiced by Conker designer Chris Seavor, [GRUNTILDA NOISES] but this is a core aspect of Banjo-Kazooie that helps define these characters, as each character's voice has a different tone and inflection to it, which allows each character to have their own personalities without full voice acting, which would have been a massive challenge to fit on an N64 cartridge. On the subject of characters, they're another reason why people love this game. Obviously, Banjo, Kazooie, and Gruntilda get the most focus, and as far as main characters go, they're pretty enjoyable. Banjo is a relaxed, lazy but well-meaning bear and, honestly, not a very exciting character personality-wise. His dialogue is mostly uninteresting or expository, which I guess is the point, since everyone around him is more engaging as a result. Banjo's at his best when he acts as the straight man to Kazooie, who's much more loud and abrasive, always treating the other characters harshly or joking at their expense. However, she never leaves Banjo's backpack, both figuratively and literally sticking by his side at all times. They play off each other very well, and you totally buy their camaraderie and friendship. Then there's Gruntilda, and anyone who grew up with this game will tell you how memorable of a villain she is. Grunty isn't any less goofy than the rest of the characters, especially because her dialogue consists entirely of rhyming, and she'll often insult Banjo directly as you make your way through her lair, which is always fun to listen to. The other major characters, while definitely not as strong as the other three, still have their time in the spotlight as well, like Bottles responding to Kazooie's sarcastic quips with jabs of his own, or Mumbo's boastfulness and pride in his magical abilities. As for the side characters, they're a mixed bag, but are generally a fun bunch to interact with. Some of them will appear in later games, where they'll be more fleshed out, but for the first game, they're simple but decently written characters. Most only have two or three lines, and they typically only help you accomplish a single task, but some of them either have multiple appearances or are just so instantly recognizable to longtime players, like Clanker, for instance, a giant mechanical fish whose entire existence is acting as Gruntilda's garbage disposal unit, which is probably the most depressing life I can imagine. One of my favorites is the camel Gobi, who you meet tied to a rock in the middle of the desert and free from captivity, and when you find him later, you deliberately attack him and force him to spit out the water stored in his hump. You come across him three other times in the game after this, and you keep attacking him to release all the water he's been storing up. Yeah, this game has a bit of a harsher tone than you might expect just by looking at it. Banjo-Kazooie looks like a cute, inoffensive game at first glance, and... ...well, for the most part, it is, but there's a lot of sarcasm that gives the game a bit of an edge. This isn't a dark or mature game by any means, it's still mostly family-friendly with occasional moments of snarky, humorous writing that is, even today, incredibly likeable. It's still a silly, fun adventure that has occasional bits of cynicism but doesn't overdo it. Now let's talk about the worlds, of which there are nine in the game, plus Gruntilda's Lair, and I'm gonna come out and say it: I'm not really a fan of this hubworld. I know a lot of people like this place, but it's just too linear for my tastes, which makes navigating it more irritating than it needs to be, and yeah, the shortcut cauldrons that act as warps between areas of the lair do help, but it's still too much of a chore to travel through. Thankfully, the levels themselves are much better, primarily because of how open they are and their specific themes and atmospheres. You start with Mumbo's Mountain, a standard grassy hills level that helps you break in the basic controls and moveset and that isn't too complicated to complete. The second world, Treasure Trove Cove, is one of my favorites because in addition to the fantastic music, it's a world that really rewards you for exploring, especially once you learn how to fly. Clanker's Cavern is certainly not as bright as the other worlds, it's still a decent level despite the constant need to swim around, plus travelling inside Clanker is simultaneously enjoyable and gross. Bubblegloop Swamp is up next, and it's more compact than the other levels, but that actually works in its benefit, because trying to avoid the dangerous swamp water provides for some satisfying platforming. The snow world, Freezeezy Peak, is another fantastic stage; it has a bunch of areas to explore and the snowy aesthetic makes it look so inviting, and, again, the music is just amazing, one of Kirkhope's best songs in my opinion. Gobi's Valley, a desert-themed world, is where the game starts to get more difficult, mostly because of the dangerous quicksand, not to mention the numerous timed challenges which require you to be as fast as possible. Then we have Mad Monster Mansion, which takes place in and around a haunted mansion and is definitely the darkest world yet, but it's still an enjoyable level to explore, even if it's a little confusing remembering where each room in the mansion is. The only two worlds that I don't like are the last two; Rusty Bucket Bay and Click Clock Wood. Rusty Bucket Bay is notorious among Banjo-Kazooie players because of how dangerous the platforming can be, especially because of the Note Score system used in the N64 version. The Xbox version fixes this problem, obviously, but it's still frustrating to be in constant danger of having to restart because of a mistimed or misplaced jump. Click Clock Wood is unique in that it features four separate variations, one for each season of the year. You'll travel through spring, summer, fall, and winter, and actions in an earlier season affect the later ones. A great concept, but the world is just too big to make exploring it four different times very fun, not to mention the level is built vertically, and vertical levels are something I never enjoy. Still, on the whole, these levels are not only a blast to play through, but because there are only a handful of them and they have radically different themes and aesthetics, you won't be bored travelling through each stage, and that also holds true for the final areas. Once you reach the top of Gruntilda's Lair, you'll face the most daunting and gruelling challenge yet... ...a quiz show. Yes, before the final boss, you need to tackle Grunty's Furnace Fun, a quiz/board game hybrid that tests your knowledge of the entire game. You'll be asked about the worlds, the music and sound effects, the characters, and even personal questions about Gruntilda herself, which you can only find the answers to by talking to Grunty's sister Brentilda at various points inside the lair. These answers are randomly picked for each game, and you'll definitely need to write them down in order to get these questions right. If you make it to the end of the board, Grunty will flee and you'll chase her up to the roof, where the final showdown awaits. Grunty isn't too tough of a boss, but she has multiple phases that require a specific move from the game to beat, so you need to use every trick you've learned throughout the adventure to take her down. Once you do, Gruntilda falls off her tower and is crushed under a massive boulder, and she was never ever seen again... ...for about two years. Banjo's adventure is certainly an exciting one all the way through thanks to the level design and theming being top-notch, and merely describing the worldsin this video doesn't do them justice. But I think what fascinates me most about Banjo-Kazooie is all the mysteries surrounding the game. These secrets and Easter eggs take what is already a fantastic game and elevate it to an almost mythical status, and they were one of the most talked about parts of Banjo-Kazooie and its sequels when the series was in its prime. There's minor details, like a picture of Captain Blackeye, the villain of Project Dream, appearing on a painting in Mad Monster Mansion, and the beaver in Click Clock Wood being named Gnawty, a reference to the Gnawty enemy from Donkey Kong Country, but those are just scratching the surface. Most of this game's secrets revolve around cheat codes, which you can enter in the sandcastle in Treasure Trove Cove. There are a TON of cheat codes in this game, some of which are given to you as rewards for completing specific gameplay sections. If you explore deep enough in Gruntilda's Lair, you'll come across a Cheato book, and he'll tell you a cheat code for reaching him. There are three of these Cheato cheats, and they double your maximum blue egg count, your max red feathers, and max gold feathers, which are nice upgrades, but I rarely found myself running out of these items anyway because they're so plentiful in each world. Bottles will also give you a handful of cheats if you return to Banjo's house and look at his picture above the fireplace. Doing so will take you to a jigsaw puzzle minigame, and completing one of them will give you a cheat code. This minigame is actually a lot of fun, mostly because the picture is actually a moving image that depicts gameplay of Banjo in various locations, but the game is fairly picky about how precise you need to be to place a puzzle piece down, and the time limit is not very forgiving. The cheat codes you get from this are purely cosmetic, however; the first six only change Banjo's proportions in silly and sometimes scary ways. You get Big Head Banjo, Inflatable Hands and Feet Banjo, Giant Kazooie, Tall Squished-Head Banjo, Eldritch Abomination Banjo, and Giant Banjo and Kazooie. But the last Bottles code is absolutely the best one in the game, as it turns Banjo and Kazooie... ...into a washing machine. All this does is replace Banjo's model, so you still have access to all the abilities in the game, only, you know, you're now a washing machine. Theoretically, you could beat the entire game like this, but unfortunately, the effect seems to wear off if you try to enter the final boss area, so I guess we'll never see the fabled Grunty/Washing Machine fight after all. There are several other codes in the game, however, that are inaccessible through normal gameplay, and have only been discovered thanks to two members of the Rare Witch Project forum, Ice Mario and SubDrag, who hacked into the game and discovered the hidden codes. These codes either give you infinite items or unlock worlds, Note Doors, or areas in Gruntilda's Lair without needing the necessary collectables to do so, but be careful entering them on the Xbox version, as most of them disable saving your game or posting times to the leaderboard. What's great is that these codes are much more elaborate than they need to be. Do you want to enter Freezeezy Peak early? Just write out "CHEAT" and then the phrase "NOW YOU CAN GO AND TRUDGE IN THE SNOW". This makes the codes a bitch to enter, but I find it amusing nonetheless. However, this is obviously not something the game developers want you to do if you expect to beat the game legitimately, so if you enter more than two of these "illegal" cheats, then the game straight up erases your save file and you have to start over from the beginning. The game makes it clear that entering too many of these cheats is a bad thing, so it's not like you aren't warned about this, but it's strangely satisfying knowing that the developers purposefully created game-breaking cheats and a way to punish players for using them. But we haven't even talked about the biggest mystery surrounding Banjo-Kazooie, one that plagued fans for an entire decade, and one that is almost as well known as the game and the series itself. That mystery, of course, is Stop n' Swop. When you beat the game, Mumbo appears in the final cutscene to talk about some secret pictures he's found, but he'll only share them with Banjo and Kazooie if the player collected all 100 Jiggies. Once they have, Mumbo shows them the pictures, which reveal previously inaccessible areas of the game that hold special items. Sounds simple enough, but this is just the tip of the iceberg. In Banjo-Kazooie, there are seven Stop n' Swop items hidden throughout the game, six Easter eggs and the Ice Key. However, Mumbo only shows you the location of three items, so how do you find the others? Well, in the original N64 version, without hacking the game or inputting specific cheatcodes, the Stop n' Swop items are never made available to you. And even if you do input those codes and collect the items, they don't do anything except sit in your inventory looking pretty. So why are they even in the game? As it turns out, Stop n' Swop wasn't fully implemented. Rare's original plans for Stop n' Swop took advantage of a hardware quirk that existed on the N64 to connect Banjo-Kazooie to its upcoming sequel, Banjo-Tooie. The N64 hardware temporarily stores data in its dynamic RAM after a cartridge is removed from the console, and on older versions of the N64, you could save data from a cartridge in the system for about ten seconds before it would be deleted. Rare wanted to utilize this by allowing players to unlock features in both Banjo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie using this stored data. The idea was that players would take one cartridge out of the system and put the other one in within the 10-second interval, and the new cartridge would verify the Stop n' Swop data in the console's RAM. So literally, you would have stopped the game and swapped it for another; hence, Stop n' Swop. It would have been a brilliant way to use the N64 to bridge thetwo games together, which was unheard of back in the day, but unfortunately, Rare would soon be faced with a snag. Nintendo made revisions to the N64 hardware that reduced the time the dynamic RAM data would be stored down to only one second, which would have made Stop n' Swop nearly impossible without godlike reflexes, and I can only imagine how many broken cartridges and consoles would result from kids trying to swap the cartridges that quickly. Rare hyped up Stop n' Swop as a major part of Banjo-Kazooie, but due to the hardware changes, they ultimately decided to scrap it. The company didn't make an official statement regarding Stop n' Swop and its cancellation until 2008, and while Banjo-Tooie made some references to the feature, it ended up becoming nothing more than a massive conundrum that puzzled fans for years... ...that is, until the Xbox versions. Thanks to the Xbox 360 storing save data on the system, it was now possible to implement Stop n' Swop as it was originally intended, but Rare went one step further and tied Stop n' Swop to Banjo-Kazooie, Banjo-Tooie, and Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts. If you play the Xbox version of Banjo-Kazooie on a system that has a Nuts and Bolts save file, all the Stop n' Swop areas are open immediately, and you can now collect the items and use them to unlock bonuses in Tooie and Nuts and Bolts. But I'm not gonna talk about what you unlock until I get to those games, since I think it's more appropriate to talk about them there. Regardless, the mystery of Stop n' Swop was finally cracked open, much to the delight of fans, and though it wasn't 100% released as intended, it's still nice to see that Rare's vision for inter-game connectivity eventually came to be. *phew* So, that's Banjo-Kazooie. I didn't expect that I'd be talking for this long about the game, but as you can see, there's a lot to discuss. It may be a simple platformer at its core, but the magic of Banjo-Kazooie is its ability to create a sense of adventure and wonder that very few games can match. The game design is top-notch, the visuals and sound are phenomenal, and it still controls and plays fantastically. I can understand why some would find this style of game to be antiquated, but to me, Banjo-Kazooie hasn't lost its charm in the slightest. I absolutely recommend this game, but unless you really want to be old-school, you should stick with the Xbox versions, as the improvements and new features are too good to pass up, and if you have an Xbox One, definitely consider the version on Rare Replay, since you not only get Banjo-Kazooie, but also Banjo-Tooie, Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts, and 27 other Rare titles for just $30, which is an incredible price. Rare took an idea that wasn't working and came out with something brilliant in the end, and they had a fresh new property to call their own. I am curious as to what Project Dream in its original form could have been, since the concept was intriguing and it might have been a good game in its own right, but considering what came out of it, I am glad that it was cancelled. It's fun to imagine what could have been, but if it had to be sacrificed to bring us Banjo-Kazooie, then I think it was ultimately worth it. And in 2018, Rare released Sea of Thieves, which was also directed by Gregg Mayles and revisited the pirate theme, so I guess in some ways, the dream never fully died. But as for Banjo and Kazooie, their adventures were far from over, as the next game in the franchise was on the horizon. And that game would be an even bigger undertaking.