Modern science is full of all sorts of mind-blowing of the cosmos under conditions that nobody Perhaps the biggest example is the study of universe itself. I've talked about the Big Bang in other you might call skeptical, including people nobody was there at the time, we can't possibly And, of course, we know a great deal. But I find that a lot of people have some Bang was. So I thought I would dispel a few and then Perhaps the most common misconception is what In this model, all of the matter of the universe it blew up, spreading matter throughout space The location could have been anywhere- perhaps This is absolutely not what happened. The reality is much, much, stranger than that. Another misconception is that the Big Bang It doesn't. It explains things after the moment of creation, We don't understand either of those things And that's okay. Scientists admit when they don't know something. A third misconception is that, prior to the with zero size and infinite density- what Yeah- that's not true either. No scientist really believes in a literal read in some books. The singularity arises from pushing Einstein's breaks. It's just a wrong idea. So just what does the theory of the Big Bang And, I want to be clear- this video doesn't Just the theory itself. The Big Bang theory says that the universe for billions of years. To best understand the theory, maybe the best and run the clock backward to the beginning. Let's start with what we see around us- means that we can use the simplest math. The part of the universe we can see is 92 that is at least 500 times bigger than what In a previous video, I said the distance was have now extended that number. The current universe may actually be infinite hypothesis. If that's true, our visible universe is forever in all directions. Now that's a little hard to draw, so let's say left-right. If we do that, we can present that direction grade school, with a zero point and then two We can make a choice and define Earth as the We can then separate the universe into parts are so far away that we can't see them. Picking the Earth as the center doesn't universe, rather, it's simply the center The universe is expanding now, but if we run past the universe was smaller and smaller. Run it all the way to time equals zero, and collapsed down to what looks like zero size. But we also see that even though we shrunk number line is still infinite. That means that, even when the universe began, in size. So that's kind of a mind-blower. In addition, we see that all the points of same point. If all points in the universe were once the say that every point in the universe can be So, this dispels the idea of the firecracker The Big Bang is just the expansion of space, Now let's address the idea that space is Certainly, the data is consistent with that Maybe space is curved, but just super big- when it is (clears throat) very obviously How does that work in this expanding space Well, maybe it's true. Maybe space didn't start out as flat, but If that's so, we need to reconcile the flat And scientists do that by invoking an addition This addition is called inflation. In inflation theory, just a tiny fraction expanded crazily fast. From about ten to the minus 36 seconds until universe expanded at speeds faster than light. According to some calculations, during this ten to the 26 times, with our visible universe about the size of a grapefruit. Other calculations give different answers. The precise numbers aren't crucial. But the big idea is that this superluminal infant universe and make it look flat, which And, after the inflation stopped, the universe This expansion after inflation is what most Okay, so what about the singularity- the idea was collapsed into a single point with infinite Well it's true that the visible universe volume probably wasn't zero size. Remember that the zero-size thing was something relativity and we know that his theory doesn't For that, we need a new and improved theory, Since we don't have a theory of quantum what we believe is, because of quantum mechanics, ridiculously small, just not mathematically Finally, what happened before the Big Bang, in size, but with the matter of the visible The simple fact is that we don't know. There are lots of ideas, including our universe in a lava lamp, or multiple universes floating crashing into one another, or- and this is one universe- the one we live in- and it existed waiting to expand, like a bowstring just before And, in this scenario, it's familiar quantum So those are the key points of the Big Bang. So, let's pull it all together by starting We'll start at time equals zero and ignore Maybe I'll make a video on the various ideas But not today. To simplify the explanation, we'll show The matter and energy of the visible universe represented by this dot here on the number The volume was crazy small, but it wasn't In fact, truth be known, we don't know much While the conditions of the instance of creation sort of quantum foam, with particles winking Something caused the universe to begin expanding. We don't know what. And the first thing that happened was inflation, space, where the visible universe grew from of a grapefruit. Remember that for our purposes, the exact Then, at a time of about ten to the minus drove inflation dissipated and turned off. The expansion of the universe was then coasting, the classic Big Bang and it's still going From that point onward, we know a great deal The universe was hot. Particle physics and then nuclear physics The universe expanded and cooled leading to The key message about the Big Bang is that It is simply the expansion and stretching And another important point is that no place universe began or, equivalently, every place No spot is special. It's also true that no reputable scientist happened at the exact moment when the universe We just don't. But we're looking at it and we know a great Imagine what we'll know a century from now. Hopefully my medical colleagues will come me still be around to see it. Because- man- I sure want to know. Don't you? In spite of the fact that we don't know constantly staggered by the fact that we know Hopefully this video gave you a better idea If you enjoyed the video, please be sure to And be sure to subscribe to the channel, including the next time I make a video about the Big After all, the Big Bang is physics and, of