(footsteps thudding) (door knocking) - What's goin' on? - Bunch of the wranglers got worked over. - What do you mean worked over? - Had the hell beat out of 'em. I'll take care of this. (door slams) (suspenseful music) I said I'll take care of it. - You don't get to tell (suspenseful music continues) those words that are written in red 'Cause I've been hanging (country music playing) - Whoa! - Holy shit! (suspenseful music) (bull snorts) (crowd shouting) (bull snorts) (bull snorts) (suspenseful music) (bull snorting) (people shouting) - Jimmy, you fucking call Call 'em out Jimmy! - Him! (men shouting) No, yes, right there! (men shouting) - Get his fucking ass, get his ass. - Lloyd, right there, - Right there, right there. - Get that son of a bitch! - Open the fucking door. - Fucking Christ! - Go on! Come on, come on. (men shouting) - What the fuck, Rip? - Maybe next time someone puts their hands on someone from the give me a fucking call! Or your bouncers break it up. (dramatic music) (phone ringing) - This is Beth, leave me a message. - Fuck! Fuck! - Who are you gonna miss the most, huh? Can you see 'em, Beth? Can you see their faces? Because they're never 'Cause you ain't gonna have one. I'm gonna fucking blow it off. - Blow it off! - You fucking scared now? - Do it! - Tell me you're fucking scared! - I'm not fucking scared. - You fucking bitch! (Beth screaming) (glass smashing) (gunshots) (Beth screaming) (glass smashing) (man grunting) (head thudding) - No, no! Beth, Beth, Beth, it's me. I'm here now, you're safe. Here, look at me, look at me, it's okay. (Beth crying) (Rip grunts and coughs) Sir, I need you. I need a doctor, too. One that nobody knows about. I'm at Beth's office. (Beth screams) Beth. Beth. (Beth screaming) - Fuck you, fuck you! - Beth, Beth. Beth, hey, I love you, I love you. It's okay. (Beth sobs) (Jimmy shouting) - What the hell is he doing? (Jimmy shouting) - C'mon. (Jimmy shouting) Hey, Jimmy. - I need a truck. Hey, hey, Jimmy, hey, hey, hey. - They killed him. They - Who did, Jimmy? Talk to me. Lloyd, Lloyd. Go on. Come here, come here. Go on and tell me what happened. What happened? - I owed money. - So they beat your old Yeah? Why'd you owe money? Why'd you owe them money, Jimmy? - My past life. - You owe anybody else from the past? Okay, give me the rifle. - I'm gonna finish this. - Hey, you look at me. You finish it like this, for the rest of your life. I'm going to show you how so they don't become new Now give me the rifle. Hey, come here. Go inside. Let me talk to Kayce. We need to take care of this tonight. - We got a lot going on - I'm fine with waiting but he ain't. (dramatic music) - You've gotta be fucking kiddin' me. (truck roaring) (motorbikes smashing) (dramatic music) - Motherfucker! (man grunting) You're a fucking dead man! (men shouting) - Which one of these Which one of these motherfuckers? - The big guy with the beard. - Him? Him? Get up, get up! I'm gonna give you one last chance, you leave now or you'll never leave. I'll bury you where you fucking stand. Get the fuck outta here. - You heard him. - Let's go. - Get the fuck outta here. Lloyd, you cover my back. Colby, you all right? - I think I broke my hand. - That's a far cry from your heart. Ryan? - All I did was ask 'em to leave. - All right, come on. How 'bout you Teeter? You okay? - That is fun. - Bunch of assholes taking - Yep. - You know, when they they're gonna fuck this - Probably so. Let's go fix the fence, come on. (motorcycles revving) (sirens blare) - Jesus Christ. - Rip. - Get everyone back to the - Where? - Every fucking where, Kayce. Listen, I want you to look headed northbound on 540, you understand? - How bad is he? - I'm an hour from the hospital. He ain't got a fucking hour, Kayce. - Fuck! Send me your location, - Let's do Hemmett's Pasture on 89. Tell the chopper I'll - We're looking for a blue Hendon, get me a CARE flight Hemmett's Pasture now. - Kayce. I need you two units to (helicopter buzzing) - There you are. - [Pilot] Mr. Wheeler, we are approaching Hemmett's Pasture. - Yeah, I know, I see you, Don't you die on me. John, don't you die on me now. Not like this, you hear me? Fuck! (helicopter buzzing) (car engine revving) (car engine revving) (helicopter buzzing) (dramatic music) (helicopter buzzing) (somber music) - Hold it, sir. Hold it, hold it. Nobody's eating, they're What do you got in the truck? - Got a pistol in the glove box. Got a rifle behind the seat. Get in the truck. (engine starting) (suspenseful music) - They're gone. (suspenseful music continues) I'm gonna need wallets, rings, watches on the fucking table! Open it, open it! Hands on the table! Don't you fucking move! Eyes front! That's right, that's right. He's back, the cowboy's back. (suspenseful music) - Hey. (gunshots) (diners screaming) (gunshots) (robber grunting) (gunshots) (robber grunting) - He's around the corner. (hostage shouts) You think that's going to - I'll fucking kill her! (hostage screams) I swear - That's right, then to hide behind will ya? Party's almost over. You see it? - I got him. - Whenever you want. (gunshot) (gunman screams) (gunshot)