Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, intelligent person. What does it mean to be intelligent? Most people intelligence really means. For example, you might scores on tests or excel in their chosen careers. changed the world with their intellectual gifts. kinds of numbers, competitions, and accolades, ways, some of which may surprise you. in history, like Albert Einstein or Leonardo geniuses who made a significant impact on human weren't the only manifestations of their and many others were very eccentric, the world as strange. They maintained unusual and lived their lives unlike most people. people don't think like everyone else. They're have different values and priorities, which affect important about the study of intelligence. While of someone's mind, we can also identify more True intelligence isn't always measurable with intellectuals may share similar experiences. behave in ways unique to their powerful brains. we discovered the habits, skills, and behaviors That's why, in this video, we're going to in doing so, help you understand how smart achievements, we will explore the most interesting Because intelligence isn't as straightforward a highly intelligent person, if you can relate to be more capable than you realize. Do you often feel bored? Studies show with boredom more often than most. Their minds questions and harder problems. So, they need more bored by the things most people find intriguing. to fake interest -- that you're unsatisfied you crave something more complex or insightful. of your time thinking, more engaged with To the outside observer, it might seem like think you're lazy, but laziness has nothing to do whether you realize it or not, you 2. The Surprising Power of Anxiety anxiety and high intelligence. People who ruminate problem-solving abilities. They're often able enabling greater intellectual potential. associated with fear, depression, and a sense that stress and self-doubt. Anxiety may not be brain is sharp and strong. Have you ever guessed what someone Highly intelligent people have a knack for By picking up on subtle cues or changes in body For example, let's say you're talking to someone know precisely what is bothering them. You're able feelings, and most of the time... you're right. like these surprisingly often. To be clear, can actually read minds. But your sharp 4. The Grayscale Mindset see the world in black and white, but the smartest not interested in simple solutions but enjoy For example, when taking a stance, they rarely viewpoints and freely acknowledge how much flexible mindset, intelligent people They don't mind challenging familiar ideas that's when the smarter people thrive. insisting they're right and everyone else is and embraces all the possibilities that exist in see the world in shades of gray, you 5. Efficient Minds Wander but the data tells a different story. According people who frequently daydream may have more abilities. You might think about an artist lost about a brighter future. This kind of constructive it's also a sign of real intellectual potential. The smartest people have a strange habit of deep into complicated problems, their bodies must like tapping, shaking, or even chewing. you might practice one or more of these habits or shake your leg. You might chew gum or snack on your restless movements may be signs 7. Keeping the Peace are often the peacekeepers among their adept at anticipating problems and resolving Playing the peacekeeper is more complicated you must perform all kinds of intellectual empathize with multiple points of view, Conflict resolution requires empathy, You may not think you're doing anything who can easily neutralize conflict is 8. Cognitive Mirroring learners. But why do they learn more quickly than to shoot a basketball. Most people need to watch kind of understanding. But highly intelligent In other words, the smartest people can easily skills. For example, they may win at games they've lesson. People might think you're cheating has nothing to do with it. You're a quick 9. Recharge the Engine are prone to mental exhaustion. Every day, they into complicated problems and demanding tasks. people also experience intense fatigue. People like Leonardo da Vinci, Nikola Tesla, and resting for short intervals throughout the day intelligent people, if you take naps to rest and 10. The Cognitive Flexibility Test Ask them to do anything more, and they quickly on the other hand, juggle tasks like it's second flexibility," which allows you to shift your So, how flexible are you? To test your abilities, time. If you bounce between tasks without skipping 11. Uncanny Recollections seemingly insignificant details? For example, earlier. Maybe you surprise people with days. People might look at you amazed But you're probably not doing it on purpose. retain surprising amounts of information without but you absorb every detail like a sponge. 12. Finding Inspiration in Nature with the natural world. For them, nature isn't of beauty and inspiration -- a place to recharge, Our environment is full of intricate patterns humbling, and thrilling, but only if you pay Whether it calms your nerves or sparks new ideas, perceptive and intelligent than you realize. sure to subscribe because more