Tonight, we're in Austria for a very special the INAGURAL trip on the next generation of PODs... so let's go and check them out together! Join me as we travel over 1000km with the and crossing most of Germany up to Hamburg this ground-breaking new sleeper accommodation. And doesn't Vienna just look amazing in the This is the area around the parliament. Anyway, let's head over to Wien Hauptbahnhof, departure is approaching. Trams and buses can both be accessed from entrance. I absolutely love this station. It's the perfect mix of modernity and functionality, your way around easily enough. On the right side when you walk in, are tickets Westbahn and RegioJet. A wide variety of food outlets can be found accessible with a First Class or Sleeper cabin Unfortunately not a POD ticket, as this is On the underground level is access to the There are also many more shops, including and luggage lockers down here. Large electronic boards show both the train being in both German and English. Our train tonight is NJ490 to Hamburg (and OK, let's head up to the platform now. They are all accessed by both lifts and escalators, to platform. You can find clear signage up here too, including There are also diagrams showing you which so you can stand in the correct place. And here comes our train, pulling in around These fixed-formation 7-coach sets are hauled has a top speed of 230km/h (143mph). The consist is made up of the following coaches; an accessible cabin, 2 sleeper, and 3 couchettes, PODs. The Nightjet livery is one of my favourites I think it's both classy and smart. What do you think about it? Leave me a comment below! Now let's check out our route tonight, from A big thanks to TrainPal for sponsoring this TrainPal is a money-saving app for UK &amp; European I've personally been using them for over 3 their discount codes and split ticketing to Simply put in your route and dates, and TrainPal automatically find the best price for your combination of split tickets, saving you up And all of this with NO BOOKING FEES! There is also a SPECIAL OFFER at the moment and up to 5% OFF UK, Eurostar and European The railcards are instantly delivered to you, immediately to save a 1/3 on the price of (*restrictions apply) You can also get 10 free ticket refunds, or For the best way to save money on UK or European Once again, a BIG THANKS to TrainPal for sponsoring OK, let's board! Step-free access is not available at most contains the accessible compartment, is level lift can be requested. We'll be travelling in one of the ground-breaking I think these individual compartments look They are very much designed like a capsule couchette berth, but more on that soon! We depart on-time, at 8:10pm. This trip is 1100km (684mi), and is scheduled arriving in Hamburg at 9:04am tomorrow morning. The cheapest price that I could find now for (PS115.08, $145.65), which isn't bad value. There was a special promotion for these early $81.45), which is honestly an amazing price. The base price of the ticket, which includes $31.71). They are dynamically priced though, so this double. I'll show you around a full sleeper cabin, on. Tickets are easily bookable online through travel. If you want AD-FREE early access to every &amp; BETTER reviews, then become a Channel Member Just click the link above now, or the JOIN Thank you! OK, let's check out these new sleeper PODs. Upon boarding, you check-in with the conductor POD. Steps and handles are provided for accessing As with all couchette accommodations, you The POD is 6'3 (192cm) in length, and feels As long as you're not too tall. The mattress and pillow are both very comfortable, I'm sure it's going to be a good night's sleep! There is a nice space at the window end, to wallets, phones etc, which also includes a A storage pocket, reading light, European-style your head. I like the fact it's USB-A and not USB-C, On the power source end anyway. Each POD has its own small window, equipped There is a connecting door to the adjacent with a friend, or locked shut, for your own There are hangers on the wall for bags and There is a sliding table and desk, which folds along a runner. There is also a mirror on the underneath. Very ingenuitive. The touchpad control panel on the wall allows It also tells your if the toilets in your which is an excellent touch. You can even start your very own disco! There are two lockers provided, also opened A larger one for carry-on sized luggage and Larger suitcases must be stored on separate However these have excellent PIN-code lockable The only small down side to the PODs is that so tend to close themselves when in motion, either. I'm a I would have booked out a private sleeper to spend the night in one of these PODs with On crossing into Germany, there is a 'Schengen The 3 couchette coaches on this train come with 4 beds in each, making a total of 40 Here's a look at the standard couchette compartments. They're very similar to the PODs in their or lockers. These are perfect if you're travelling in There is a lockable external door, and you Each couchette coach has 2 toilets, and an These weren't particularly clean, but were and toilet roll throughout the journey. The seated coach is laid out in a 2+2 configuration, These are intended for shorter part-journeys, in here. If you're mad, or something. The seat reclines a small amount, and the There are two tray tables, one large for eating small for watching content from a phone or above. There is also wireless charging and a coat A reading light can also be found integrated The multifunction coach contains the accessible users, and 2 companions. The accessible toilets are right next door. It also has more seats, some ski racks, and for an extra charge of EUR16 per bike. Last up, is the premiere accommodation on The 2 sleeper coaches on the train, have 8 This is a comfort compartment. I think they look great, very stylish and The beds are by the window, and face the direction train convention. The bedding is of a much more premium feel, OBB have certainly upped their game in this All are en-suite with showers, the comfort The amenities are the same as the couchettes, individual temperature controls, along with including the multi-coloured disco lights. The seating area can also be converted into Another ingenious feature of this train! The comfort plus cabin is pretty similar to bunks are oriented across the coach. The en-suite also includes a separate shower OK time to head to sleep in the POD... Good night! After just a couple of hours of sleep, the To cut a long story short, the locomotive meant all the lights coming on full, passenger NOT GOOD! All-in-all, after a locomotive swap, we're Breakfast is included for both sleeper and comprehensive in the sleeper compartments, fill in the night before. There is also a limited food a drinks menu See the link in the description below to check Free WiFi is also available for all on the We are now in the Hamburg suburbs, so let next generation trains, travelling up from I think that OBB and Siemens have done a great trains, listening to customers, and really The PODs especially are stylish, functional to experience comfortable, private and safe than was previously possible, if they didn't There were obviously a few niggles on this caused a massive delay and disrupted sleep, accommodation and hopefully the teething problems Our penultimate stop is at Hamburg Hauptbahnhof, Anyway, we now arrive to Hamburg Altona, this Have you been on any Nightjet sleeper trains How did these new PODs compare to your experience Let me know in the comments below! By the way, I'm always open to new video ideas, there's anything you really want to see on Don't forget to subscribe as I publish a new Thanks for watching and I'll see you next