Nuclear fusion has been a pipedream for decades. Always 20 years away. Never 19. It's easy to get jaded about this technology when nuclear fission energy already exists But, by the end of this video, I hope that as I am about the potential of this technology. If we, as a civilization, actually pull it power plant it would change the face of society. Clean safe fuels will allow every country Allowing countries around the world to be leading causes of conflicts around the world, Cheap, reliable and abundant energy is the It would solve our issues with climate change. Allow us to electrify industries that require Allow us to create entirely new industries like water desalination. Providing the world with fresh clean water to fertile pastures. Ushering in an era of clean, safe abundance, for decades. Nuclear fusion experiments have been underway war, with the first generators firing up in The Soviet Union approached the problem with a slightly different approach, the stellarator. Each design attempts to solve the same problem. Fusion in essence isn't terribly complicated. We can make new elements by combining smaller of energy. However, to successfully combine elements that pushes them apart. Like pushing two north poles of a magnet together, In order to force them together we need to can't just grab individual atoms and force Instead, we create a plasma, essentially a charge, can be manipulated by a magnetic field. We can then confine the plasma within a magnetic fusion generator walls, and gradually raise that would otherwise melt every solid material Raising the temperature of the plasma causes Raising the ions' kinetic energy so high that the electromagnetic repulsion and collide. Both of these designs, the Tokamak and Stellator, field confinement, generated by massive superconducting The Tokamak became the leading design today the USSR on the tokamak design in 1968, which However, both designs used the same fuels. The exact reactants we use have a huge effect what we get out at the end. Most reactions use two isotopes of hydrogen. A regular run of the mill hydrogen has one orbit. We could perform fusion with this kind of of the reaction is very low. Instead we frequently combine deuterium and Where hydrogen normally has one proton and one proton, one electron and one neutron, and two neutron. This combination is used for a couple of reasons. First, it has the largest probability of giving Other reactions, like a regular hydrogen to of creating Helium 2, which is unstable and again, and releases very little energy in [2] They have a lower probability of combining want. Which then go on to fuse to form helium 3 This is the reaction chain that powers the of particles making the probability issue needed to create the conditions needed for We need to supply those particles and the if we can't extract more energy than we not an energy source. We have successfully created many many fusion the bright pink flashes of fusion myself while We know how to achieve fusion. The problem we are now trying to solve is maximising the energy we can extract. So, step 1, we need fuels that require less That's where deuterium and tritium come When combined they have a very high probability 17.6 Mega Electronvolts (MeV) for each and For comparison, Uranium 235 produces about (200 MeV), but on a mass basis, that deuterium times as much energy as uranium fission, and Helium is actually quite a useful byproduct, magnets, to fill rocket tanks after their from exploding, and occasionally to make your ago. Followed by this voice clip: https://youtu.be/6Oe8T3AvydU?t=539 And we will eventually run out of the gas, be a nice back up. Deuterium is fairly common on earth, occurring Making up about 0.02% of hydrogen in seawater. And because deuterium has an extra neutron, it its name. Heavy Water. That difference allows us to separate it through Vacuum distillation allows us to take advantage the girdler sulphide process separates heavy We can then simply electrolyse the heavy water However, one of the issues facing nuclear Our primary source of tritium is nuclear reactor heavy water. These pools are designed to absorb the high and in doing so can become tritium. A hydrogen with 2 neutrons. [5] This source of tritium is becoming less prevalent shut down around the world due to competition Currently total global reserves of tritium is not a lot considering ITER program, the being built in France at the moment, estimates tritium every day to generate 800 MegaWatts Meaning we would eat through the entire global [6] 800 megawatts is enough to cover about Even if we could continue sourcing Tritium about 100 grams each per year. [7] This is a major problem, however we do have We can use the high energy neutrons spit out wizardry. When those high energy neutrons encounter and helium. [7] Providing a steady supply This is done in what is called a blanket around The design of the blanket is one of the most ITER will test over 180 design variants of interior. Because, the blanket needs to do a lot more It is also where the energy of the fusion 80% of the energy of the tritium deuterium energy neutrons in the form of kinetic energy. We need a way to convert that kinetic energy [8] As the fusion reaction rages in the centre begin to erupt outwards, unaffected by the charge. Tokamaks convert the energy of these tiny trading their kinetic energy with atoms in This heat energy is then captured by high channels, converting it to high pressure steam Humanities tried and tested method of creating The material that fulfils this role needs First, in order to optimise for heating AND be a neutron multiplier. When the high energy neutron from the fusion to strike an atom inside the blanket, and Creating an additional neutron that allows heat AND tritium. Beryllium is currently the leading candidate When the neutron strikes it, it splits into Multiplying our first neutron and allowing Beryllium, the same material used for the of choice because the helium byproduct does the material retains little tritium within We need the tritium to naturally escape the the gas to replenish our fuel, but also because . However, Beryllium does have its problems. First, the sheer quantity of beryllium a commercial Current designs call for between 216 to 560 This is an issue because beryllium is extremely material. Annual global supply last year amounted to The entire annual global supply of beryllium Next, there are safety issues. Beryllium can contain large quantities of China's beryllium blanket module contains So, 0.01 percent of the blanket is composed This isn't an issue for most components Like the beryllium, aluminium, copper engine 2001. However, it becomes a massive problem when neutrons. The same kind of neutrons that split uranium This creates fissile isotopes, or, in other [9] If there were 30 parts per million of uranium reactor, that would mean there is 17 kilograms 235, the uranium needed for fission reactors. The byproducts of this ura nium would make generator's life incredibly difficult.[9] This all points to one major problem that Even if we manage to reach net energy output, problem holding nuclear energy back. Cost. Nuclear fission power is a wonder technology It promised abundant, clean, cheap electricity. A technology that we scarcely even dreamed the existence of the atom. Yet, we are closing down nuclear fission reactors power more than ever, because it's uneconomical. The cost of building a nuclear fission reactor, when decommissioning it are two primary factors are driving straight towards the exact same However, one company is doing it differently, The company I visited to witness nuclear fusion David Kirtley. They are doing things completely differently They aren't capturing energy with steam blankets. They are developing a method of making fuel using the cheap and plentiful deuterium to And they are using a completely different fusion temperatures. Next week we will be releasing a full length so make sure to click the bell so you can In the meantime, you can continue learning advanced physics course on Brilliant called Electromagnets play a pivotal role in many trains and even MRI machines. It's powerful knowledge to obtain, and you up at brilliant.org/realengineering. Getting started on your first course is completely with our link will get 20% off Brilliant's This is the perfect holiday gift for the life I'm a very visual learner. I struggle to understand things just through elements to help people like me to quickly way to ensure you are understanding the concepts This not only makes it fun and interesting interactive lessons make it easy to jump in a mobile app, allowing you to learn anywhere. So delete all those time wasting games from Brilliant focuses on facilitating effective learning goals, whether its professional career learners. Brilliant are adding content monthly, so there's We even have our own Real Engineering course,that orbits and centripetal acceleration You can get started for free by clicking the to do so will get 20% off Brilliant's annual