- [Narrator] If you look here's what you'll see, magnets, some copper coil. But how does all of this Wireless chargers send to a receiver using It's the same technology but with a communication channel added to make the devices smart. But making this safe enough for smartphones takes a lot of work. - In a real product, the 110,000 times in a second. - [Narrator] Without safety measures, this power could escape This is the tech behind wireless charging. This device from 1996 is that could charge wirelessly. - There were no connectors in it. It was pretty novel at the time, probably one of the first, - [Narrator] Wireless charging involves a few different steps. - Here on this side we and here we have the phone So what happens is that the electricity is coming into this wireless charging pad. It is turned into magnetic The mantic field is reaching which is turned back to and then used to charge the battery. - [Narrator] When engineers began to work on wireless charging a few decades ago, the big issue was how to avoid heating up objects placed If you accidentally placed a how would you stop the magnetic field from heating the paperclip so much that it melted your phone - There were some really hard challenges. There was one particular which is related to so-called We want to make sure that the unit that is transmitting the power and the unit that is receiving the power. - [Narrator] The solution It relies on the transmitter and receiver communicating over the power signal. If there's an unexpected discrepancy between how much power is being sent and how much is being received, the charger sends less This was a central part standard called Qi, which was released for Vuori is now the chair with the Wireless Power Consortium, a group of about 350 companies that work on technologies all smartphones and other charge wirelessly and certifying that products brought to market This is especially important will soon begin using higher power levels to charge devices faster. - We have hundreds of tests. We are testing very thoroughly tests for things like overheating, So we have tests that that the products work safely together. So when you buy a product that it works with the other Qi and it's safe. - [Narrator] The basic Electromagnetic fields are invisible, but they can push and pull on whether that's the electrons inside a wire or for instance, iron The beauty of this is it doesn't require a physical connection to work - In the mid 90s when I started, there was a big problem in the mobile phones. There were one of them parts And so therefore, I was asked by getting rid of the connector. - [Narrator] Nokia released with Qi charging, the Lumia 920. - It takes about an hour if you use the charging plate, but this is a trend that I They call it wireless charging. - [Narrator] Walt was right. The trend stuck around, but It can take a lot longer to Even fast wireless chargers often take twice as long as wired ones. And users frequently struggle So late last year, the released its biggest update since 2010 Qi2 based on apple's The magnets ensure the line up precisely. This makes charging faster Qi2 currently works at 15 watts, but the system was designed that will enable faster charging, though that won't be - As phones get more and more that efficiency and that is really important. - [Narrator] One of is that it brings Apple to the same universal charging standard, which enables a universe of and public chargers. - It gives companies confidence and I think we're going to see in wireless charging, deployment, (kettle beeping) (kettle buzzing) - [Narrator] In the meantime, the group is also branching like removing cords through a new standard called Ki. - The main challenge with Ki is that we're dealing with high powers all the way up to 2.2 kilowatts, which is the equivalent of two microwave ovens running at the same time. - [Narrator] Fundamentally, it's just adapting the same technology that's used in wireless chargers or typical induction cooktops. - I put the kettle on, you hear the beep that it's now connected. I can turn it on, and now of 2.2 kilowatts to the kettle, and you see the water starting to boil in a matter of seconds. Second benefit is of course, that the surface is so there's no heat in the surface or in the bottom of my appliance. - [Narrator] Ki may not be but the standard is and products will likely starting around 2025. But this technology is only and with Qi2 WPC's first in more than a decade. Wireless charging could soon play a bigger role in people's lives. - I would hope that over time, wireless charging will If you look at something like wifi today, you don't think about it, that it'll be anywhere and everywhere, and we would hope that Qi2 (cheerful music)