Hey there guys Paul here from In this video, we're gonna be looking at how to calculate the and that is really how much at any given time during its operation. Now the units we're gonna be using for this are the kilowatts, the BTU's and the RT's which are refrigeration tons. Now there's gonna be a few in order to perform this calculation, so let's imagine we've A centrifugal chiller, we've over here and we've got our that is coming from around the building that will return to water into the pump that's spinning all through the evaporator and then leaves again and So we're gonna want to know usually you can measure from the pump. In this video we're not to actually calculate I will make a separate video for that one. So we're gonna assume And then we also want of the water going into the evaporator and then the temperature of the water that's leaving the evaporator. And the other two things we're gonna want to know is the density of the water and also the specific Now, both of these we at the average temperature, so whatever temperature and coming out, we want the temperature in plus temperature out, divided by two to get your average temperature. This is the one you want to take. Now, to find the values in your engineering tables in books, or you can have a quick Google and you can find them on there as well. There is a website, peacesoftware.de I use this a fair bit or but I would kinda Just check to make sure you or steam, whatever you want to look at. Fill in the pressure and the temperature, give it a calculate and run the calculation, and then what do you see is these are obviously metric units, and then you also get your so you can take these values here, if you want to convert them then another website I'd quickly use is just unitconversion.org You can just go straight and also the specific heat Now, to do the calculations into metric and imperial. If you're only interested in the imperial, then you can skip to find just that section, however if you want to learn I would highly recommend you to understand the different units and how we calculate them. So first of all, straight into the metric. So first of all, the that this pump here is at naught point naught, nine, nine, five, meters cubed per second and that the water that's that's coming from the AHU, is entering the evaporator and by the time it leaves, at six degrees Celsius. Now the density of the water, so it's nine degrees there, is 999.78 kilograms per meter cube so for every cubic meter almost a thousand kilograms going through. We'll also have looking up at the specific heat capacity we'll see it will be about 4.19 kilojoules Now the formula we're gonna use to calculate this is gonna the dot above the V just or a rate, so V represents volume and then the dot represents a rate, so flow rate and the rho so if you multiply the volume flow rate by the density you get the mass flow rate. And it's gonna be kilograms per second. So you multiply this by the specific heat capacity of the water, the average by the subtraction from the water in that temperature minus the So let's drop some numbers in there, if you remember the flow These figures were taken so the flow rate into the nine, nine, five, cubic meters per second and multiplied by 999.78 so for every cubic meter that enters we'll have going in of water. The specific heat capacity per kilogram, per Kelvin and we multiplied that by the subtraction of the water inlet And obviously we're using so we want to transform or convert our Celsius over into Kelvin. And to do that is very easy, it's not a degree sign remember, and that will convert back to Kelvin, and you do that also for So first of all, we'll multiply in this brackets together to give us 99.48 kilograms per second so every second, 99.48 kilograms of water are entering into the evaporator. Next, we'll add these together what our Kelvin values will be. So we've got 12 plus and then, six degrees Celsius plus 273.15 Kelvin gives us 279.15, I missed the K of there, they So, in the next section these two together to give and then finally, we just together to give us 2500 kilowatts. So, this chiller given these at that point in time, is of refrigeration. Now, if you want to convert then you just divide to give you 711 refrigeration tons. And if you want to into British thermal units per hour, then all you do is multiply and that will give you So coming on to the imperial version, in order to calculate this, then we're gonna use some assumed values. These values are actually from a real life chiller so we've got the pump is providing water at 12,600 cubic feet per hour and the temperature of the water going in is 53.6 degrees Fahrenheit and the water coming out is Now, taking the average and look it up and you'll see at that average temperature and then the specific heat capacity at that average temperature per pound per Fahrenheit Now, for the imperial units that is use this formula here which is Q equals V dot times rho, the V dot is just the volume, and then the dot represent a rate, so it's a flow rate, volume and rho just means the so these two together will then we just multiply that by the, so we just drop the figures in there, we got 12600 cubic feet per hour, volume flow rate multiplied by the density of the water Then we got our specific heat capacity at that average temperature multiplied by the inlet temperature So first of all we'll just which are in the brackets, to give us a mass flow then as we've got another bracket over here we're just gonna and that will give us a 10.8 Fahrenheit, finally we just multiply to give us a final BTU per hour figure. And that is the refrigeration effect so this chiller is providing Now, let's convert that you just take your BTU's per and that will give you your and if you want to then you just multiply your and that will give you your cooling refrigeration So that is how you calculate of the chiller and you can apply this any time during its operation, whether it's a part load or a full load, it will be calculated like this. Okay that is it for this for watching I hope you've enjoyed this and it's helped you, please don't forget to hit the like, subscribe, and if you have any comments, leave them in the comment section down below, also don't forget to check out our website theengineeringmindset.com and once again, thank you