This is where the FIFA World Cup the Lusail Stadium in Qatar. In just four years, it went from this... to this. It has 80,000 seats... and cost more than It's the biggest stadium But it's more than that. Over a decade ago, Qatar had hoped that hosting a mega sporting event would put it on the map. But today, stadiums like Lusail of how a country can build to further its own interests and how those ambitions can trap thousands. &quot;...migrant workers lost their lives &quot;...forced to labor under &quot;Migrants working on infrastructure projects &quot;The logical source of oil for Europe Since the 1940s, when Qatar discovered it's been one of the richest countries on Earth. 70% of the government's revenue Thanks to all that wealth Qatar has gone through a The capital, Doha, for instance, to world class city in just complete with extraordinary museums But in recent years, the world has been making the oil and gas market even less dependable. And in the Gulf, the country has seen most notably in 2017, when issued a blockade against Qatar... cutting off trade and travel. It cost the country hundreds So to diversify and protect Qatar has started leaning that helped establish its status sports. That repositioning is Qatar is trying to secure friends Particularly powerful friends like the United States and the UK. And so the best way to do that is through these soft sectors In the last 18 years, Qatar has held But nothing compares to &quot;The winner is... Qatar.&quot; Qatar won the rights to host &quot;Today we celebrate, but tomorrow... the work begins.&quot; It had made an unbeatable It would spend more money than any host had ever done before. $200 billion. And it delivered. Since then, Qatar has It's built dozens of hotels and and metro lines to connect They've even completed a whole new city with golf courses, marinas, It can brag that it is the first that's ever hosted a mega sporting event. To be able to do that you have a lot of partners, and all the celebrity ambassadors having these incredible world class stadiums, You can come to Doha and feel secure that you're experiencing a world that's modern and advanced. While the spotlight was as a shining example of development... it also exposed one of its darkest secrets. To power decades of development Qatar has relied on a constant supply mainly from South Asia Since the early 2000s, so many foreigners they now make up 80% They build, clean, serve, and staff When we think about how migrant workers we think about workers who are in extremely low wage situations. So they are looking for a place to allow them some upward And Qatar promises them that mobility. Typically, Qatari companies hire that find workers to send over. They promise these workers in exchange for illegal They also have the workers pay passports, flights, the visa... all to get the job contract. The workers often take out loans to pay the agencies incurring It's a huge transnational... cross-border operation... which completely screws workers Workers often use their family's in one of the richest countries They arrive in Qatar often to find they're not getting the job and can't do anything about it... because they've now entered It's a uniquely restrictive that can take different forms But they all have one crucial thing Kafala legally ties the immigrant's to their employer. Meaning an individual employer has to sponsor their worker which gives them an inordinate amount They can control when or if they can change jobs. They can control if and when Often by confiscating their passports. And they can also control the worker's ability to renew their residency and work permit. But beyond the restrictions on a migrant's the system also traps them in a cycle of abuse. And that became evident when Qatar To deliver on the infrastructure it tapped into its migrant pipeline and recruited hundreds of thousands When Qatar was awarded all of the people involved in decision making knew that the World Cup would be built based on the kafala system. Thousands of migrants turned into to build stadiums like Lusail which became the site that ranged from Several investigations into Qatar's stadiums revealed that employers in private camps far where they are forced to live and unsanitary conditions. And at work, their lives Migrant workers are often given and can be forced to work up to 14 hour days in Qatar's extreme heat. The day this photo of the the high in Doha reached They have spent so many hours and after that they only permitted a five minute break to eat and they eat standing Whenever you're also up on a scaffolding, might get you in trouble with your boss. And so you end up drinking less water despite the need to have it to avoid heat exhaustion. The number of work-related surrounding stadiums remains unclear due to Qatar's lack of transparency. In fact, that's the case for But there have been some clues The death certificates Nepal with the bodies sent back from Qatar show that nearly 120 Nepalese migrants have died on the job since 2008. The real number, though, In 2019, a study examined the link and heat exposure and concluded heatstroke was a likely cause of cardiovascular deaths. That alone could raise the number to about 600. In addition to living and working many are also not getting paid Workers have repeatedly faced wage theft. So then the debt keeps racking up because the debt still exists workers have still not been able to This is one of the richest countries and yet they haven't been able to accelerate its reforms and ensuring people Some workers try to file complaints, there are few effective mechanisms in place. And speaking out comes with which has kept migrants isolated with increasing debt and After years of mounting pressure from human rights organizations that reached the UN's International in 2017, Qatar signed promising to align its laws to international standards. In 2020, 10 years after construction Qatar implemented a minimum wage and now allows them to terminate their employment contract. But... The challenge with the minimum wage Employers started pushing back And so even though we haven't seen Indeed, we're seeing a watering down And for the migrants who have already This is all too late. Civil rights groups and are now calling for a remedy fund to compensate the migrant workers financially. And some teams have and on social media. &quot;We have learned that the decision to host the World Cup in Qatar which resulted in the suffering and harm of countless of Making this year's World Cup a particularly difficult one to watch. Millions of football fans will still tune in and cheer But after that final match is over... and the trophy is awarded... stadiums like Lusail will continue that it all came at