Open the door and drive carefully. If a car is spotted, go and get the money with Ah Jiang . I'll cover you. Don't go over here. Come over here. Come over here. Come over here . Damn it, everyone get in the car, put down the guns, and take me to pick up Ah Jiang. It's full of blanks and take them with you immediately. I'm going to pick up Aman, or I'll shoot you through the head and get out of the car. Is your car a manual transmission or a manual transmission? No, it's not a manual transmission. Which car is that? Say, bastard, get off, get off, okay, quick. Who are you, A Biao? Did you hear anything? Get off the car. Come on up. A Biao. Open the door. A Biao, open the door. Who are you? I am a police officer. I am a police officer. No, I am a police officer. I want to borrow your window. Come up quickly. Get up through the back door. quick. Climb up and walk quickly. I'm 966, Abiao. Don't mess around. Don't shoot. Don't shoot. You bastards. I told you not to shoot randomly. Do you want to kill me? Aman Put down the gun and throw the money over. I'll count to three. If you don't throw it over, I'll kill her. If you dare to kill her, I'll burn all the money. Are you crazy? Firecrackers are set off. Chen Banxian is telling fortunes. Can you please lower your voice? Can you please lower your voice? Fat woman, stop making noise. Come in. Why are you making such a fuss? Squat down... Sharpei, get out the window quickly. They are about to run away. Follow me, Sharpei. Force them to go up the stairs and attack from up and down. Attack them with all-out attacks . Chicken heart, be careful and come from behind. Chicken heart, is it a manual gear? Get off the car, stop the cat quickly. Sir, I am Xiang Yang. I am going to Ting Kau Pier in Tsuen Wan now. I found out about the Yangtze River and am planning to escape there. Sir Cat, the news is of course true. Don't put bureaucracy in front of me. Otherwise, I won't let you have an easy time after 1997. Okay, it's okay. Chicken heart, you have to endure it. We're almost there. We're almost at the dock. It's okay. Don't worry. You have to fight. If you have confidence, it'll be okay. Chicken heart, you can't die. Your mother is still waiting for you. You can't. Die, your mother is still waiting for you. You have to persist to the end. If you can't die, you have to return to the tomb. You have to follow me to Panama to stop the boat. Stop the boat, stop the boat, stop the boat, be careful with the fetus. Dad, she is bleeding so much, let alone go to Panama. I think she will be dead if she cannot reach the high seas. Is there a place to go ashore in the deep well? It can be there in twenty minutes. But go ashore and go to the hospital. It's a three-hour ride to get there. I don't think she'll survive. You must go to Panama. Don't let them arrest and shoot me. I came back because of Aman. We must live together and die together. I admire your self-confidence. The spirit of sacrifice is my duty, there is no way not to arrest you. Have you forgotten that I let you go last time? I remember, but I am a business person and I do whatever I want. I tell you for the last time that I am innocent. I didn't kill you last time because I wanted to prove my character. You think you are an unrepentant Communist. I've said it before. If you pester me again, I've said it. If you pester me again, I'll shoot you. Hurry up. Xiangyang, are you okay? Doesn't matter, I haven't killed that man yet. You guys are late. Police, call the water police immediately. Yes, sir, it's really here. Sir, here, we found it . Sir, you came just in time. My wife is going to be in trouble. Send her there. Hospital, Mao Xiangyang, did I kill your father? Did I steal your wife? What kind of blood feud do I have with you? You want to force me to arrest me in mainland China? I don't blame you. You force me to confess, and I also admit it. I only have half my life left to escape to Hong Kong. You want to force me like this? What do you want to do? It does n't matter whether you do it or not. What are you spending the one hundred yuan on ? What are you fighting for? Why are you fighting? I am doing it for my duty. What China needs most now is to establish the legal system. You are a criminal who skipped detention before being sentenced. I must take you back. I have told you hundreds of times that I am innocent. You will die. If you don't believe me, you keep talking about the rule of law. Do you know how many innocent people have been wronged by your so-called rule of law? If the court finds you guilty, I will take you back and punish you. Since you refuse to repent, I will kill you now. If I don't kill you, you will be punished later. Are you still following me like you are chasing a ghost? I will tell you next time not to let me see you again. If I see you, I will definitely kill you and leave. We pointed out the cousin and let you go because of our loyalty and not to betray you. You're so stupid that you didn't kill him. We can't get away now. Bastard. Bastard. I'm sorry. There are so many of them. I can't protect your lover. What did you do to Aman? If you don't obey, I'll take that woman back and sell her. Go make chicken, how about you sell your goods, do you want to split the money, you bastard, you dare to hit me? You bad guy , bastard, if you keep talking, I will shoot you to death. You have sores on your head and pus on the soles of your feet. You are bad from beginning to end. You turtle bastard, your whole body is rotten. There is a kind of heroic man who comes...he puts away his gun for a woman and even puts his own life away. He is infatuated and nymphomaniac. In fact, Brother Zhuo hopes that you can concentrate on fighting for your career. He will hide the woman for the time being and will not sell it. I'm going to make a phone call now for you to have a heart-to-heart talk. Aman, say okay to your lover. Aman, are you okay? How are you? I'm fine, don't worry, you have to be brave, we will definitely overcome the difficulties until the final victory, have confidence, we will go to Panama, we will go to the Cultural City. Love, I love you, don't make noise, love, I love you, I have goosebumps and my heart is raised , There are rewards and punishments for a good job. There is such a small amount of money and the water flows away... Don't be wordy. You are really smart. What should I do if something suddenly happens the day after tomorrow? The quotations teach us that we should pay attention to the enemy in tactics. We should be sure that they will do it in advance. You are playing a trick. We must be more vigilant. By the way, if you really don't come with us, I want to go back to the countryside to see my mother, A Jiang. If something happens to me the day after tomorrow, you can help me write a letter to my mother when you arrive in Panama. Send it to her. I've collected the money. Today I don't dare to tell her that my brother is dead. Don't worry. But if something happens to me, I ask you to help me send Aman back to his hometown. Your money, take it. Xiangyang, the foreigner just finished the meeting. Why should I take you back? There was a meeting at the top and it was decided to tell you to leave Hong Kong immediately. Do you know how big a deal the shooting incident caused you? The three parties issued an official letter to me in person asking me to go back. I will go back otherwise the Hong Kong Governor will be useless. I'm sorry to ask 966 to hand over these two blank bullet guns to them. Don't make a mistake. Just take it as luck when that kid fights. It's not easy to die and then give the body to my cousin. My cousin had nothing to do and naturally left Hong Kong. What should I do with the woman? I have already arranged to have a classic car sell her to Indonesia. You gave birth to a son without an [ __ ]. You are really undermining Li Changjiang. The evidence that you assisted others in armed robbery is conclusive. Your appeal has been rejected. You had a bad attitude during the trial and disturbed the public order. You refused to plead guilty and refused to repent. The party's policy is to be lenient if you confess but to be strict if you resist. Now you are sentenced to death. You will be executed immediately. Get out of here. Walk faster... click back... get out of the way... Ah Jiang. Dad, Ajiang, my son was wronged. I am a veteran anti-Japanese cadre. I have contributed a lot to conquering this country. You cannot deny me. Kneel down. Ajiang's father, Ajiang's father, my children... Are you going to the Eastern Province to install bullets at the execution site? Each bullet costs one yuan, usually six. Sometimes you have to refill an extra round. The first charge is six yuan and then the refill is calculated separately. Do you know ? Jiang, I'm really sorry that I've caused trouble for you. Please forgive me. I've caused trouble for you. Please forgive me. A Jiang... See you in the next life. I was wronged and dragged away Li Changjiang and Chen Chunhe. Run quickly. A Jiang, get down and stop the car. Please check. Over there, hurry up and move the box down and search for the webmaster He. It turns out that you are on duty today and everyone is so familiar with it, so don't search it. I brought you a stick of American cigarettes, so you can give me face. Do you think I like to search? A red-headed document has just been issued. Webmaster He, help me. I haven't checked you for a week. Let's search carefully to see if there are any illegal immigrants. Don't be lazy. Webmaster He, please put away your cigarettes and have a cigarette to refresh yourself ... We are here. Let's talk over there, come on... Webmaster, this is the only time I have to unpack the box. It's raining. It's raining so hard. Brother, haven't you finished checking? Look, it's raining so heavily, hurry up and check my goods. They're all wet. Stack them up. Let's have fun tonight. Why don't you come in quickly? It's raining so heavily . Check what you can do. Forget it. Webmaster, I'll bring you a cigarette. Look at American products, Camel brand ones. You like to smoke them the most. You idiot, you can't come up with any ideas . Idiot... This watch I bought is a new one. I have the latest style ring. I understand the wedding ring. I'll wear it for you. It's just right. It's just right. Where are you from, Sanshui Big Field Commune? Why do you want to come out? Our hometown is very poor and we can only eat sweet potatoes all the time. Doesn't that make you fart all the time? This is my cousin's phone number. You saved me. I want to treat you to dinner. How do I contact you? I don't think it's very convenient. I'm here... I'm here to get married. Marry? Good thing getting married? Congratulations on your marriage? Congratulations. Your husband is looking for you. My dad took money from that man and forced me to get married. Why are you talking so much? Come on, hold out your hands. Come on, you brothers, someone is coming to pick you up. Come to pick us up? Come on, you brat, you're bluffing me, you bastard. What's going on ? This brat from Guangxi actually lied to me and gave me a phone number. I called the person over there and said I didn't recognize him. That phone number was really my cousin's. Did you dial the wrong number? I called you seven or eight times. You bastard cousin. , Ajiang, didn't Yangjiang's father write to you and say that I will come out and stop calling? Don't blame me for being a ruthless relative. If you call me again, I will call the police. Wait a minute. The three thousand yuan that my cousin owes you is mine. , count you lucky and go. Thank you, sir. My name is Changjiang. You can hit 966 very well . Take him to the construction site to do it. Slowly deduct the money and go to work tomorrow. Thank you to that guy for selling your lover to a classic car. When I went to pick up twenty customers every day, the first two thousand was considered as repaying the debt. After that, Liang Ge would get fifty yuan from each customer . Please help me to rescue her. I don't have the ability. Only he can do it. He is a ruthless general in there. The Hunan Gang came out less than five years ago . As soon as he opens his mouth, the old car trembles with fear. He is waiting for someone to use it. Follow him. Well, he is waiting for someone to use him. You follow him. Well, what is the use of him? Anyway, it is a big move. Soon you will make a fortune and wear gold and silver. Believe me, believers will be saved. I will not do such a thing. Just do whatever you want. Count me. If you talk too much, Qitiao is confused. I made the wrong call. What happened? I'm confused... Good change. Did you take the wrong medicine? Grinning widely, give him the address of the classic car. Brother, don't tell others that I told you. Got it. This is the place. [ __ ] you. My classic car's place. Ajiang, Ajiang, Ajiang, let go, Ajiang, let go... Ajiang, Hong Kong has not yet reached the age of 1997. Hong Kong is a colony, and we, the British, are in charge of our handling of cases. You are not qualified to interfere. No one wants to interfere with your handling of cases. We, the Chinese side, are just I want to ask you to cooperate in deporting Li Changjiang so that we can arrest him. This is completely reasonable and reasonable. But it has been three months and you have no news at all. I hate him. Really, what did he say to me? You are very annoying. He said a bad word, he is not satisfied with you bastard, my ancestor, what did he say? He said bad things about your mother and ancestors and you scolded me? [ __ ] mainlander, I will send Inspector Panda to work with you now. But first, you cannot act alone. Second, you must not reveal your identity to avoid causing panic to us Hong Kong citizens. I have received strict confidentiality training and will never expose myself. Identity: You also said that your identity will not be revealed. Look at the Phoenix brand mainland cigarettes you smoke. Are you afraid that the citizens of Hong Kong will not know that you are a mainlander? What kind of gun is this? You must not carry weapons. Give it to us immediately . No, Chinese big guns, you know. Really, I think you'd better ask the boss to bring a pistol . Sir , don't do anything. Listen, tie them all up, or I'll blow you up, blow you up... Don't go in, Stupid policeman, tell them to surrender, chicken heart, chicken heart, open the door quickly. I don't have the key. No key? You can't open the key. You can't open the door even if you kill me . Save me. Who rang the alarm bell? I accidentally touched it. Go to your boss. Where's the key? I'm not the boss. I'm the classmate of the boss's cousin. Where's the key? The key is with the boss. Where is the boss? The boss is in the vault. Chicken heart, how do you leave? Ignore him. There is no way to save him. Shut up. Chicken heart, don't worry, why do n't you leave quickly? Go Chicken Heart Go Don't move What? I can't hear you clearly. Please speak louder and give me the grenade, or I'll kill you. Hurry up, hurry up, get out of the way, drive quickly. Chicken heart, are you okay? Don't worry, I'm okay. Don't worry. I'm okay. Stand back and don't move. Don't chase me out. Don't move. We're chasing the car. Don't run away. Let's go to Brother Zhuo. Now that we're done, hand over Aman to me. Hand over your head. The foreigner you injured is a superintendent. Now the police all over the world are looking for you. I have to change my house for you tomorrow . No matter what I do, I can't protect myself. You still think so beautifully. You're crazy. I helped you with three cases. My money and goods can't be sold. I'll give it to you. You ask. Ask him, that bastard, every time you can't get rid of the goods, you have a reason. Forget it, I'll find someone else to get rid of the goods. It's hard for a good person to do it. Brother, the price is not good and I'm afraid you will scold me for the good price. I'm afraid it's a trap. If I give it to you later, will you starve to death? Brother Liang, I have risked my life for you three times and I have not received a penny. My brother is also dead. If I die too, there will be no difference. Brother Zhuo, I just hope you can keep your word and rescue Aman. Please be patient. Trust me, believe me. Believers will be saved first. Take it and use it. You two listen and hide in the boat with Nine Six Six for a while. Don't go out on the streets to get bored. Just read high-end cultural publications. &quot;Dragon Tiger Leopard&quot; Where is Aman? You said it was wrapped in your body, believe me, believers will be saved, Aman , Ajiang, Aman, Ajiang, you two eat slowly, I have something to say to him, 966, come out, I have something to say to you , hurry up Order some slow food, it's delicious. He came at 11 o'clock yesterday morning and spoke in Beijing dialect. You can tell at a glance that he is a public security officer sent from the mainland. Why don't you admit it? You used to lead him in his work, sir, don't do this. I don't know what you said. Put away the gun first. Do you have a crew cut and a beard? The man with fierce eyes is, bastard, what are you chasing here? What's the matter? Where is the Xiong Kee Hotel? I'm sorry, I don't understand what you are saying. It's strange that Hong Kong people are so unfriendly to us people from Taiwan. It's good that there are many more communist parties in Hong Kong . ... Don't charge for drinking. Come in. I'm sorry. I've made it clear to you before. I'm only doing this once. Everyone, please keep your word. Thank you both for helping me save Aman. You bastard, you really thought you were an honorary soldier. I would have touched you earlier. I know your background. You are a robber. I shot you and did not kill your bastard. You need to understand that now that you are in my territory , I have no control over you. You can come and leave as you please. If you don't listen to me, I will represent the party and the people. I 'll put you to death immediately, A Jiang. I'll analyze it for you from a third party's point of view. Think about it, you can't go back now and you don't have an ID card , so you can't stay here for a long time, right? Why don't you help Brother Zhuo work for another year? When you have money, we will help you smuggle to Panama. There are no extradition regulations in Hong Kong or the mainland. After immigration, you and your lover can live and sleep freely. Are you free? A Jiang A Man, Man, help, help, help, if you dare, beat me to death. If you don't obey me, I will kill your lover. Police, go. You thought you could just escape to Hong Kong. Hong Kong is also China's territory. Did you know that you don't have to worry? We will definitely arrive. What if I can't go to Panama? I'll go with you wherever you go. If you die, I'll die with you. Do you know this guy? You have no right to take a picture of me. Sit down. If you have nothing to do, why should you take a picture of him? We are all good friends. I'll give it to you. He took a photo to commemorate the death of the officer. &quot;Team leader , please come with me. I'm going out for a while so you don't cause trouble for me. See clearly, you and the bad elements from Guangzhou colluded with Zhou Lian to smuggle national treasures out of the country. These are mine.&quot; The photos secretly taken at the scene. If I report it to my superior Zhou Lian, I will be dead. If you dare to step into our mainland, I promise to shoot you immediately. But this is a customs matter. As long as you are willing to cooperate and help me find the Yangtze River, I can tear you apart. Who is it? You don't care where it comes from. Anyway, I have a background. How about it? Are you okay? It's okay. Please give me a smile. Yes, smile. Where are your front teeth ? Are you really okay? You're fine. The Hong Kong police are all idiots. Get in the car and drive. You should do something for yourself. Kill someone. Tell you, I can rob for you, but I will never kill for you . Do you understand? Boy, you are still like this until you die in front of your eyes. The day before yesterday, my uncle from Mainland China caught Lao Liang and almost beat him to death. His teeth were knocked out just to force him to confess you. Lao Liang is really loyal. He was beaten half to death and he didn't betray you. Now Lao Liang is lying to you. That cousin came out and told me about your whereabouts. I think you should know who that cousin is. He told me that the superiors have hinted that you can be executed on the spot. If you want to go to Panama, you have no choice. You should know who is your real one now. Friends, we are loyal and open to the public. I parked the car at the door, waiting for you.