A day when I came home earlier than usual. I put a Earl Grey scented diffuser from FrancFranc at my door. The cold is spreading........ My teeth, which had undergone orthodontic treatment, have shifted slightly. I am currently using a retainer to realign them. I'm trying my best to wear the mouthpiece for as long as possible. I usually take a shower or bath as soon as I get home. I know it's inconvenient. I'll put the food that I buy in the refrigerator. If I can't change the water in the vase in the morning, I change it at night. When I see flowers in season, my fatigue flies away. I am always hungry before dinner. Today, I'm going to have this coffee jelly from a plastic bottle, which I like the taste of. I need some sugar before I start my night. After I wash the dishes, let them dry naturally. 6:30 pm I choose bath salts and other things to take with me into the bath room. It's a Miffy bath petal that I stocked up on to use on days when I want to be soothed. I always soak in warm water for about 20 minutes. I'm starting to feel dry of skin. The texture is fresh and hydrating. Leave it on for 5 minutes, Marks and Web's massage scrub. It removes dead skin cells. I massage it by adding water and adjusting the softness. TBC's in-bath body milk in convenient hooked shape. Perfect for when I want to moisturize right after a bath! Liposome Advanced Repair Serum by COSME DECORTE I started using it when I had a skin problem. I wash my bath quickly. I've been using COSME DECORTE's Idra Clarity recently. I'm thinking of trying something different next time! I'm starting to worry about my eyes and I'm trying to apply eye cream as much as possible. About 7:30 I often choose a recipe from a recipe book or a social networking site that I want to cook. Some days I can't decide what to eat when I get to the supermarket... Some days I make up my mind from the day before that this is what I'm going to have for dinner tomorrow night! I cut up fried tofu in batches and freeze what I don't use. I often wonder what to buy for mushrooms. Today I chose enoki mushrooms and shiitake mushrooms. Freezing them makes them easier to use and tastes better. Practicing I peel the turnips and cut them into 6 equal pieces. I eat the stem and the tender part of the leaves together. Persimmons from my parents' house. When I see a persimmon, I always make my favorite recipe. I sprinkle salt on the turnips. Half-priced ground meat that was the deciding factor in today's menu. Sprinkle with sake and microwave for 4 minutes. Add 1.5 tablespoons each of miso and soy sauce to make meat miso paste. I also add green part of green onion. 400ml water 1 teaspoon gochujang 1 teaspoon soy bean sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons beet sauce 2 tablespoons sake 1 teaspoon white dashi 1 tablespoon sesame paste, 1 teaspoon sugar (I substituted walnut sauce) Rinse turnips in cold water and drain. 1/2 teaspoon ginger, 1/2 clove garlic 3 tablespoons chili powder, 1 tablespoon white sesame seeds 1/2 belly of cod roe Instant kimchi with turnip, persimmon, small green onion This recipe has a delicious balance of turnip texture and persimmon sweetness! Add plenty of bean sprouts and meat miso I completely forgot about the vermicelli I was so excited to eat. Honey plum wine I have made in the summer. I can drink it after 3 months of pickling. Hmmm? LOL The best time to drink it is after 6 months. It tastes like a mixture of tantanmen flavor and miso hot pot. It is a delicious combination of umami from various vegetables. Next time I want to make it with Seri too. A lot of minced meat and soup. The leftover ingredients are taken out for tomorrow's meal. A warmed-up dinner. It was lightly sticking. Bring it to a boil and let it cool. After cooking, clean up any oil or scraps that may have fallen out. The kitchen reset time depends on the day. After the cleanup. Today, I take care of the chestnuts that I received. Fresh chestnuts are washed 9:30 p.m. It's like a motivational switch to clean up for this cup of tea. Watching dramas, lounging around, putting away the smallest of papers... I like to do something with my hands. I like to just do simple tasks. If this were my job. There's a saying that if you have a choice between doing what you love and what you're good at, it's better to turn what you're good at into your job. I agree with this statement now. 10:30 pm. I don't have any cavities or anything like that at the moment. I've heard that I'm more prone to cavities when I wear braces. 11:30 I go to bed when I start feeling sleepy. I also choose same scent before falling asleep. These are tips that are said to help with falling asleep. I usually go to sleep between 11:00 PM and midnight. I put a head-clearing cream on my temples. Massage gun recommended by a friend. It works well on tired feet from pumps. I don't have any plans tomorrow. Thank you for watching to the end Cat in a cat cafe