New this morning, just days after President Biden gave the green light, U.S. officials tell CNN that Ukraine is firing the first powerful U.S. made longer range missiles in side Russia. Moscow has said this constitutes direct U.S. participation, and it's being seen by the Kremlin as a major escalation of a conflict that began 1000 days ago. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is warning about what's ahead if Vladimir Putin isn't stopped now. Putin has brought 11,000 North Korean troops to Ukraine's borders. These contain gun may grow to 100,000. While some European leaders think about, you know, some elections or something like this as Ukraine expands, Putin is focused on winning this war. He will not stop on his own. Cedric Leighton joins us now. He is a CNN military analyst and a retired U.S. Air Force colonel. Previously, President Biden held off approving the use of these longer range U.S. made missiles out of concern it could escalate the war. Is that still a real possibility amid these threats from Russia? Now? Well, especially with those threats. Pamela. Yes, it is a possibility. And so that's why the U.S. is kind of spreading that needle. Now, what they have seen, of course, in the past with every single weapon systems, whether it was the high more systems or the F-16s or the Abrams tanks, they would have to get to. Yes, at some point. And at first it was a firm no from the United States. And then as developments occurred, each one of those weapon systems became part of the Ukrainian arsenal. Sometimes, like in the case of the Abrams tanks, too late to have an impact on the battlefield as the Ukrainians had originally intended. But when it comes to the attack, arms, it remains to be seen. A lot of people are saying that this is a bit too late and a dollar short. However, it has had an impact already. And you showed the graphic of the attack on, Bryansk, which is just to the west, of course, which is the region that Ukraine has occupied a part of. So all of this is an incredible, movement on the part of the Biden administration to try to get a foothold in the area to a firm foothold that is basically forcing mechanism to get the Russians and the Ukrainians, basically to the negotiating table. And that's, I think, what we're seeing. So this can feed into what Trump wants to do when he assumes power. but it's it's also a situation where the Ukrainians have to have some tactical successes if they're going to have a successful, effort at a peace conference and a viable, cease fire, at least I want to get your reaction. You know, as as this is escalating right now, Ukraine is making these, using these U.S. made attack arms. Russia has these threats. We're now learning that it is updated. Russia's nuclear doctrine, to theoretically, you know, lower the threshold for Russia to use nuclear weapons. What do you think about that? Is Russia genuinely ready to do that? Well, that really remains to be seen. There are a lot of things, Pamela, that the Russians do that are in essence, blocks. and what they have found is that their conventional forces are not up to the level that they need them to be in order to provide a credible, conventional, deterrence to actions by, NATO countries or the United States or even Ukraine. And so the Russians are moving back to their nuclear weapons systems, and they're, in essence, teaching a no first use doctrine. They used to have a no first use doctrine. And now what they're doing is they're saying we will use nuclear weapons when our country is threatened, when the existence of the Russian state is threatened. and that means also, of course, the regime. So that, that is one of those areas where this could potentially put Russia in a corner. but there are certain things that can be done, to get them off the escalatory ladder. And that is, of course, where the Biden administration is, I think, trying to do it. All right. Thank you so much, Cedric Layton. We appreciate it. And joining me now from Odessa, Ukraine, is Alexi. Excuse me, Igor and Jenko. He's an independent member of the Ukrainian parliament. so good to have you. Alexi, let me just start with Suranga. Yeah, I'm one more time. I'm Shahram Gonchar, and I appreciate that. As someone whose name is mispronounced, I. I certainly would like to get that correct. So talk to me first about, what more you can share with us about this reporting of the Ukrainian missile attack inside Russia with these American made long range missiles? I don't have much to add to really here that, reports from Russian Ministry of Defense. That Russian military object in Bryansk region, near 100km from the border between Russia and Ukraine. Official border was struck this night, by attackers. That was said by, Russian Ministry of Defense six attack arms and they said attacked the base. Five were intercepted, one was damaged. But the footage the video shows that the attack was very, very successful and this depot of shells and missiles was blown up. So that's what Russia is saying. And I don't have reasons not to believe them. So if they say it is attackers, probably it is chickens. Do you believe, Alexi, that this new U.S. position on long range missiles will be enough for Ukraine to hold on to Kursk? it depends about how many missiles we will receive, because, permission is great for permission. We also need number of missiles, because just, yesterday morning, one morning, Russia used 120 missiles against Ukraine. It's not every day, but they have exactly one. And it was like this. So the question is, how many missiles will we receive? It will receive sufficient number. It will make a difference. If not, probably the effect will be less. And to that point, I mean, a lot has been said about the incoming Trump administration, but Biden still has two months where he is in office. What more would you like to see from the Biden administration in that time? First of all, I want to show you, that Russia, again, was bluffing, really in the morning that we're speaking about nuclear doctrine, but already it was near one hour ago, Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov in Rio de Janeiro, G20, said, oh, no, no, we are not going into nukes. And so there was a one word Russian bluffing. So don't call that bluffing. That's the lesson to Trump administration from Biden administration. What else can be made by Biden administration? I think it's about sanctions against Russia. There are many loopholes which can be closed, especially in oil and gas industry, financial sanctions. They there are special, conditions for gas and oil, which still can be, financed Russian gas and oil. according to decision of U.S. government, I hope U.S. administration under President Biden will close these loopholes. Now will also will impose secondary sanctions on Russian oil and gas industry. That can have a really very significant effect. That's what I'm looking for. And what about from the Trump administration? And what would you say the mood is within Parliament about the incoming administration and some of his cabinet picks that we know of so far? Yeah, a lot of people are talking with one another. People are worried, but also people are hoping there are a lot of hopes. one, the source of hopes are, the fact that Trump said that he will drop the oil prices, that he will drill, drill, drill, which will be very important because Russian war chest is fueled by oil money. second thing is, we hope, we know that Donald Trump likes to be a winner. So I hope he will try to achieve victory in Ukraine. both for himself, for United States and for Ukraine and for the free world. We don't know exactly what Donald Trump will do, but I'm sure that he will act in the best interest of the United States, which means that he should support Ukraine as an ally of the United States and as a part of responsibility of the United States. After Budapest Memorandum 1994, when Ukraine, under American pressure, voluntarily gave up its nukes to Russia. you know, last night I just wanted to ask is how how encouraged, if if that's the right word, are you, not just by the U.S. decision to allow these longer range missiles to strike inside of the Kursk region? But the response that we're seeing from some of the allies, whether it's the UK, whether it's France, and this sort of indirect sort of, consequences of that are implications of that. We hope that all our lives will continue to rally around us, because what Ukraine is fighting for is not about Ukraine, just about Ukraine. It's about international law. It's about international order. If we will lose, now, that will mean that the whole world will go to massacre, because in many parts of the planet, some dictators will decide to change the borders, and that will be the end. So, all these axis of course, Russia is not alone like you showed, Zelenskiy said. Not in Korean. Troops are already in Europe. North Korean troops are in Europe. So Russia, North Korea, Iran and China standing behind them should be stopped. Okay. We're going to leave it here. Alexi Renko, thank you for the time today. Thank you.