[Alarm buzzing] So, a typical day. get into a few hours of focused work and hopefully I bought a vibrating wrist Hopefully without waking Farah. (Farah in the background: It still wakes me up.) Galfond is trying and succeeding. I'm all in. Beast Galfond. Phil was one of the original online poker high-stakes crushers. He has a very methodical and like logical way of approaching poker. I wouldn't make eye contact with Galfond. Phil is a great poker player, he's a deep thinker about the game. videos you probably understand, talking about just one hand. Even if he's winning, he still puts the same amount of time into Thank you, I'm trying. It's hard to imagine that somebody with such a nice demeanor but if you know his poker skill set, I really like looking at you when I play. I look very non-threatening. You see a lot of players make it to the top and then disappear. I think what makes Phil a remarkable player is that he not only made it to the top on PLO His just raw aptitude for the game is You can put him in a spot and he can very game at an extremely high level He's a very influential part I'm all in! And I told you the cards don't matter to Galfond. All in! I think when it comes down to Phil's legacy, he'll be a first ballot Hall of Famer for sure. I mean, he's just a great player. [Water trickling] My days are pretty full. I started waking up earlier than everybody I'm writing. On calls with my social media team. Creating content, working out, coaching, being coached and then I have my other businesses. So, meetings with Run It Once Poker, meetings with Run It Once Training, reviewing various ideas and getting back to people. I'm 5 days a week, 11.5 hours a day working on business I am with my family. I noticed I was spending a lot So, one of the things I started doing recently was finding any opportunity I could to pace. I will brainstorm. I will take calls walking around as much as I can. I will outline and sometimes draft newsletters. He just... He just paces. I love you. The days really fly by. There are a lot of things I do throughout each day and sometimes... I don't even feel like I could fit it all in. I started playing poker at the end And by my junior year, I had turned $100 into $100,000 and I was struggling to take school seriously. So, I dropped out. My parents weren't thrilled, which I'm still very appreciative of. After dropping out and going full-time, things really took off. And two years after then, $100,000 was a million dollars and the year after that actually, which was 2008. I had my biggest year ever When I was 19 years old, We all started playing single table tournaments. because he'd play the highest stakes. He had no fear. And he was always beating You know, I played with Phil back in the day online and he was a crusher. Back when poker was new and coming up. This is way before my time, Phil was one of the best No From there he was sharp enough Where PLO, wasn't that popular of a game. He steered into a game, that wasn't really being quite as And just found an aptitude for it right away. I think that put him miles ahead of the competition. Who is this guy that's playing for the highest stakes in the entire world Who's this goofball and how could When I started playing poker and even many years into it. I was extremely obsessive. And I would spend all day playing and studying. I actually, for a long time was Where I would sleep for 12 hours And so every day I just woke up a And once I met Farah and started He's a busy busy man. And I would much rather be with someone who is really driven and ambitious and a hard worker. So, I just appreciate these things about him. What, what, what boy? I don't know, who I am! I don't know who is in this frame. A show I was working on in 2012 was cancelled. Phil and I met, it was at a time in my life where And so he met me at a very low point He still managed to fall in I had followed Phil on Twitter for a while and I was always very drawn to In a world of negativity, When Phil and I got together I would visit him in Vancouver, You know, when you're a college student, you have no responsibilities whatsoever. You can just pour all of yourself into whatever you want to pour all of yourself into, We weren't the most responsible group of people. We don't have to wake up We didn't have any family responsibilities. We basically just did whatever we wanted. Starting a relationship. Starting a second business. And starting a family with Spencer soon after. I had to learn pretty quickly how to manage my time. With everything I was juggling, time just started to fly I looked up and I was no longer I had turned into something entirely At some point in Phil's career he became He became an ambassador for the game. I don't really know, I think, maybe because I became a coach. Started a training site and I that a lot of people were learning from me and when that kind of horde of younger players viewed me as a mentor in that way their view of me kind of shifted in terms of my ambassadorship I guess I would say in poker. He just inherited the role. It wasn't really like he stepped up I felt like one day, who had the same kind of and at some point the community just He developed a reputation as Was always thinking about, what's just not the best way to play poker There was this huge inflection point. but Black Friday was a massive moment in poker. In the spring of 2011, online poker essentially was And every person that was three major poker sites, It was the moment of doom basically, We didn't know what we were going to do. And we had to uproot and either move out of the country or just find new jobs. Phil was the voice of reason for the Poker World. Everyone just kind of went to him to say: Hey, you know what, what should we do about this? And is it going to be okay? I think that that was when Phil kind of transcended being a to being someone who the community When you are at the top, And I don't know if anyone has consistently had It's like we woke up one day and he was at the top and if there is a dispute or some kind of controversy he is the person everyone goes to now. The fact that Phil is in any household names that people gravitate to and the effort that he's He's the Oracle, He's just so well respected and has done Which is saying a lot for a poker player. As I saw people in the poker Community looking to me. I felt that responsibility and started to embrace... the role of an ambassador. I never had an interest in business and I started Run It Once Training I was very interested in the game. I loved thinking about it, And I noticed that I had a natural ability to explain complex concepts in a way He comes from a family of teachers. His father was a statistician, his mother is a teacher, his brother is a teacher and it's just in his blood. A-K-5-5 suited to the King, Phil was working with a doing instructional videos there. Wasn't really happy with the relationship. So, he broke that off and asked me if I When we launched Run It Once Training, we came into a saturated market with a very different strategy. We were determined to be the best training site and in order to do that we charged They were charging 30 bucks a month or so. We charge $100 bucks a month. And that allowed us to spend more money It allowed us to spend more money while other sites were releasing It was a risk, but we weren't afraid that That was actually fine with us. What we wanted to hear was: It's really expensive but it's the best. Really quickly we became the industry leader, Without any paid marketing for And we started to gain some and that led to multiple other projects Online poker was in crisis. Run It Once Poker actually was born out of a fear that we had as poker players. PokerStars had been in the and they sold to Amaya. And with that sale came a lot of changes in And the beauty of Poker to me is and you can actually win, With a couple of the early I feared that they were heading in a direction of where people could play but So, there could be no professionals. With Run It Once Poker, we saw an opportunity to just be and actually involve our users because really especially with a poker site, because your players provide the liquidity. where they are generating the revenue for you. They're actually creating your product I was in touch with a friend of mine and through conversations with him and we researched the idea, we talked about the idea, we thought a lot about it and eventually decided that, you know what I... I think we could do this. I think we could launch a poker site. We thought that we could build the best looking And then frankly... Things spiraled out of control.