So I grew up in Orlando, Florida. I was the son of an aerospace engineer. I lived and breathed the Apollo program. We either saw the launches or we saw it by driving I was impressed by, obviously, but I was most impressed Behind me you see an amazing view, a picture that was taken and it shows a portion of our planet that's rarely seen and rarely studied and almost never explored. That place is called the stratosphere. If you start on the planet it gets colder and colder and colder, until you reach the beginning and then an amazing thing happens. It gets colder at a much slower rate, and then it gets warmer and warmer until the point where you can about zero degrees, and then you end up and that's the top of the stratosphere. It is one of the least accessible Most often, when it's visited, it's by astronauts at probably several times and they get a few seconds on the way up, and then they get this blazing on the way back in. But the question I asked is, is it Is it possible to experience Is it possible to explore I studied this using for quite a while, about a year, and then I made a scary phone call. It was a reference from a friend of mine from Paragon Space and I asked him the question: is it possible to build a system to go into the stratosphere? And he said it was. And after a period of about three years, And on October 24 of last year, in this suit, I started on the ground, I went up in a balloon to 135,890 feet -- but who's counting? (Laughter) Came back to Earth It was a four-minute And when I got to 10,000 feet, (Applause) But this is really a science talk, and what was amazing to me is that Taber said, yes, I think and more than that, come down tomorrow and let's talk to the team that actually built it. And they did something which is they took So in scuba diving, you have a self-contained system. You have everything You have a scuba tank. You have a wetsuit. You have visibility. And that scuba is exactly this system, and we're going to launch it Three years later, this is what we have. We've got an amazing suit ILC Dover was the company and all of the extravehicular They had never sold a suit commercially, only to the government, but they sold one to me, Up here we have a parachute. Everyone on the team knew that I have a wife 10 and 15 -- and I wanted to come back safely. So there's a main parachute and if I do nothing, the reserve parachute is going to open The suit itself This area in the front here It will actually heat water It has two redundant oxygen tanks. Even if I was to get which is extremely unlikely, this system would still protect me The main advantage of this system So the system weighs about 500 pounds, and if you compare it to the other attempt they used a capsule. And to do a capsule, there's an amazing and it weighed about 3,000 pounds, and to raise 3,000 pounds which was my target altitude, it would have taken a balloon Because I only weighed we could do it with a balloon and that allowed us to use a launch system than what needs to be done So with that, I want to take you We had an amazing team And here's the suit. Again, this is using the front loader and I want to play you a video Roswell's a great place but it's a fantastic place especially when you're going to land That's a helium truck in the background. It's darkness. I've already spent about an hour And then here you see the suit going on. It takes about an hour to get the suit on. Astronauts get this really nice to go to the launch pad, (Laughter) You can see the top. That's where the helium is. This is Dave clearing the airspace And there we go. (Laughter) That's me waving with my left hand. The reason I'm waving with my left hand is because on the right hand (Laughter) My team forbade me So the trip up is beautiful. (Laughter) It took two hours and it was the most peaceful I was mostly trying to relax. My heart rate was very low and I was trying not to use You can see how the fields are relatively big at this point, and you can see me going up and up. It's interesting here, I'm right over the airport, but immediately I'm about to go of over 120 miles an hour. This is my flight director telling me than anybody else and I was about 4,000 feet from release. This is what it looks like. You can see the darkness of space, the fragile planet below. I'm practicing my emergency procedures If anything goes wrong, And the main thing that I want to do here is to have a release and fall (Video) Ground control. Everyone ready? Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Alan Eustace: There's the balloon And there you can see a drogue parachute, because that's really important. There's the balloon Right now, I'm about There's nothing for me to tell and very soon I will actually be 822 miles an hour. (Video) Ground control: We lost the data. AE: So now I'm down low right now and you can basically see At this point, I'm very happy I thought I was the only one happy, but it turns out mission control The really nice thing about this I had a close of friend of mine, He flew in another airplane, and landed right next to me. He was my wingman on the descent. This is my landing, but it's probably more (Laughter) I hate to admit it, but this wasn't (Laughter) (Applause) (Video) Man: How are you doing? AE: Hi there! Yay. (Laughter) So I want to tell you one thing that you might not have seen but one of the most critical parts and what happens right after you release. And what we tried to do was use and a drogue parachute And I'll show you one of those right now. If any of you have ever you probably used one of these. But the problem with one of these things is right when you release, So it's very easy for this And before you know it, or you can release this drogue late, in which case what happens and this thing is going to destroy itself and not be very useful. But the guys at United Parachute and it was a roll that looks like that, but watch what happens when I pull it out. It's forming a pipe. This pipe is so solid that you can take this drogue parachute and there's no way And that prevented So nothing is possible The core of this was about 20 people that worked on this for the three years, and they were incredible. People asked me what the best part and it was a chance in meteorology and ballooning and environmental systems It was fantastic. It's an engineer's dream And I also at the same time both for supporting me during this effort and also covering for me But there's one other group Yay. (Applause) I would constantly give them speeches and they weren't hearing any of it. It was super hard on them, and the only reason was because I came back incredibly happy and she didn't want So I want to close with a story. My daughter Katelyn, my 15-year-old, and we were driving down the road, and she had this idea, and she goes, And so I listened to her idea And she looks at me and she goes, &quot;Dad, how can you call anything impossible?&quot; And I laughed, and I said, it's just very, very hard.&quot; And then I paused for a second, it may not be impossible, it's just that I don't know how to do it.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)