The toilet scandal in the UK, Belarus being attacked by Shaheds and the Pentagon's decision to protect the Ukrainian sky - I'll tell you about all this in more detail on air N the most important and interesting news. The liquidation of a collaborator - the explosion of the car of the chief of security at the nuclear power plant was caught on video, the Main Intelligence Directorate reported on the operation. A new deadly virus is dangerous at the regional level and can develop into an epidemic. Ukraine demands to dismantle the Crimean bridge - under what conditions is this possible? Thank you for watching, thank you for trusting us - you can strengthen this trust by subscribing to our channels, liking this video or even comment on it. For now, let's start with the news. Record for burned oil Russia is not just a country that produces oil, but now it is also the country where this oil burns the most. In the Anninsky district of the Voronezh region, a drone attacked the oil depot of the Annanefteprodukt company in the urban village of Anna. According to Governor Alexander Gusev, electronic warfare equipment (EW) was able to intercept the drones, and one of them fell on the territory of the oil depot. "An empty tank caught fire. According to preliminary information, there were no casualties. Fire crews are working on the spot," Alexander Gusev, Governor of the Voronezh Region Again, it turns out that Russian air defense seems to have shot down the drones, but they still end up where they need to go. The Ukrainian General Staff confirms the attack on the oil depot and clarifies that the operation was carried out by the forces and means of the Security Service of Ukraine in cooperation with other units of the Defense Forces. NATO and the defense of Ukrainian skies NATO will not intercept missiles and drones over Ukraine the way it does over Israel. That's because &quot;these are two very different landscapes and battlefields&quot; and because such actions could &quot;drag us into war,&quot; Pentagon deputy press secretary Sabrina Singh said at a briefing. Sabrina Singh, Deputy Speaker of the Pentagon when Russia invaded Ukraine, charged this department with providing Ukraine with what it needed on the battlefield. They are very successful in using, whether it be air defense or other capabilities, to continue to gain their territory. The Minister just spoke with Mr. Umerov to learn about the situation on the battlefield and to better understand what other capabilities, if any, they might need.&quot; She noted that Ukraine continues to successfully use its air defense systems and other resources to protect and regain its territory. Singh also reported on a recent conversation between Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin and Ukrainian Defense Minister Rustem Umerov. The main goal of the negotiations is to discuss the current situation at the front and clarify what assistance Ukraine may need to continue the fight. We talked about this with political scientist Alexey Yakubin, who monitors Ukraine's communication with the Pentagon and knows exactly the details and political component of this communication Alexey Yakubin, Political scientist / exclusive Israel and Ukraine are not members of NATO, yes, but, nevertheless, it turns out NATO countries shoot down missiles, but do not enter into a direct war, a direct military clash with Iran. That is, by analogy, well, a nuance arises related to Russia: why don't NATO countries do the same with Russia. Ukraine is not a member of NATO, but, nevertheless, shooting down these missiles over its territory with its permission, well, as it were, and that this will not lead to a direct clash, yes, to the hot phase of the war with Russia, between NATO and Russia. Therefore, I think that this once again shows us that, after all, certain discussions of this nature are being conducted between Ukraine and NATO. Perhaps they are being conducted against the backdrop of the fact that now, as we see, the question is being discussed about what further cooperation between Ukraine and NATO might look like, and whether perhaps the Biden administration will make some more historic decision, yes, on this issue. Because, well, there are such rumors, yes, or discussions, and the American media wrote about this, that perhaps the Biden administration and Biden would like to make history, yes, including by making some kind of decision about more close contacts between Ukraine and NATO, and perhaps the issue related to missiles, shooting down Russian missiles and drones on Ukrainian territory can be considered here. Singh recalled that US President Joe Biden is firmly in the position that the United States will not directly participate in hostilities in Ukraine, but will continue to support the country in its efforts to regain its sovereign territory. Explosive morning of a collaborator The car of the head of security of the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant exploded in the occupied Energodar, and Andrei Yuryevich Korotky was in it, a collaborator and "chief of physical security" of the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant (ZNPP), the Main Directorate of Ukrainian Intelligence writes about this on its Telegram. They also note that Korotky voluntarily collaborated with the Russian occupiers after the seizure of the station. He gave the invaders lists of employees with their personal data, pointing to those who supported Ukraine. He also actively participated in repressions against Zaporizhia NPP personnel and residents of Energodar, organizing events in support of the Russian army. In addition, Korotky was a member of Putin's United Russia party and headed the so-called "council of deputies" in the occupied city. Dismantle the bridge urgently! Ukraine filed an appeal to the Arbitration Tribunal in The Hague, citing Russia's violation of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and demands that the Russian Federation oblige the Russian Federation to dismantle the illegally built Kerch Bridge, the Deputy Agent of Ukraine spoke about this at the oral hearings at the Arbitration Tribunal in the case of the rights of the coastal state in the Black Sea and Seas of Azov and Kerch Strait. "Russia illegally built this bridge and now it must remove it to ensure passage through the Kerch Strait in accordance with international law. Russia must do this in accordance with other obligations of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea... We ask this tribunal to say to Russia: "Enough." We ask you to implement the objectives of the Law of the Sea Convention. We ask that legal norms be respected, designed to protect the common interests of all humanity," Oksana Zolotareva, Deputy Agent of Ukraine at the hearing. In addition, she emphasized that Russia needs to be provided with guarantees that such violations will not be repeated in the future. And we asked a person who has been following international politics for many years, political scientist and candidate of science, Alexey Yakubin, whether there are chances that such a decision will actually be made. Alexey Yakubin, Political scientist / exclusive It seems to me that here is one of the main goals that What Kiev is doing now is to try on the legal plane, that is, on the plane of international law, to prove that the situation with the occupation of Crimea, with the fact that Russia unilaterally declared that the Sea of Azov is now only its sea, yes, and so further, that this was all in violation of international law, in violation, by the way, of one of the oldest sections of international law, the law of the sea, because this one, by the way, is still conditional from the 17th century, yes, we can say even earlier, there were already attempts to create some rules here regarding the passage of ships and so on. I, in fact, do not rule out that later this decision could potentially be used in an attempt, for example, to impose certain restrictions on Russia in the use of its sea ports, for example, yes, that is, use, well, use it as a precedent in order to ask for additional restrictions on the opportunities that exist in Russia, there, in terms of using Russia, the same rules and conventions under international law that regulate maritime communications between countries. Russia attacks Belarus a video began to circulate that recorded the fall of the drone. In the recording, one can hear the increasing noise of a gasoline engine, "like a moped," and then a deafening explosion of ammunition. This sound was heard by residents of the entire regional center and neighboring villages. The sound is similar to the sound of the Shahed kamikaze drone, but the explosion itself is not visible, the kamikaze drone "Shahed", which took part in Russia's air attack on Ukraine, ended up on the territory of Belarus and exploded in the Gomel region. Wiretapping in the Prime Minister's toilet Boris Johnson, former British Prime Minister and former Foreign Minister, shared an interesting story in his memoirs Unleashed ("Unchained"), which has already caused a lot of discussion. He said that a listening device was found in his personal toilet in the Foreign Ministry building. The incident occurred shortly after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu used the toilet. The Daily Telegraph writes about this, where excerpts from the book were published. According to Johnson, the incident occurred in 2017. During one of the meetings with Netanyahu, he unexpectedly apologized and went to the toilet. "It may or may not be a coincidence, but I was told that later, when they were doing a routine bug check, they found a listening device in the toilet." When reporters pressed Johnson for more details, he responded evasively: "That's it." what you need to know is already in the book." It is worth adding that around the same period, Israel was accused of installing wiretapping in the White House. Meanwhile, Johnson's memoirs, even before their official release on October 10, had already become the subject of heated discussions in London. Deadly virus has no cure Marburg virus reported in Rwanda, WHO assesses the risk of a virus outbreak as very high at the national level, high at the regional level and low at the global level. There are now 36 confirmed cases, including 11 deaths, in seven of the country's 30 counties. 25 patients are isolated and receiving care, the WHO Director-General added. As he explained, treatments and vaccines against Marburg virus disease are under development, treatment consists of supportive care: rehydration and treatment of complications. The Marburg virus causes Marburg hemorrhagic fever (MGF), a fatal disease transmitted through contact with the biological fluids of infected people or animals (bats, monkeys). The disease develops after an incubation period of 2 to 21 days. In the early stages (days 1-5), symptoms include fever, headache, severe weakness and muscle pain. Then (5-7 days) diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain and skin rashes appear . In the later stages (7-10 days), the disease can lead to internal and external bleeding, as well as multiple organ failure. The case fatality rate of Marburg virus varies from 23% to 90%, depending on the outbreak and level of medical care. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General health workers from two health facilities in the capital, Kigali. This is the first case of Marburg virus in Rwanda. Public health tools, including contact tracing, early detection and care, community engagement and risk communication, are effective in stopping transmission and saving lives." Thank you for watching, thank you for your trust - I look forward to your comments, likes and reposts. This is important so that there are more of us. That's all. See you soon and good news to you