The man known to history as Rollo of Normandy in the year 860 AD. He was a Viking from the region of Scandinavia Duchy of Normandy. Rollo has also been called Rolf, Rou*, Rollon* His father was possibly Rognvald* Eysteinsson*, county at the northern tip of Western Norway. Rognvald*, known as Rognvald* the Wise and and ally of King Harald Fairhair, the earliest Rognvald* makes a brief appearance in the from Iceland and Scandinavia that often told But little accurate information is known about were prone to exaggeration, contradiction It was said that Rognvald* played a role in and led raids on towns on the Scottish mainland But, as with the information on the rest of to support this claim. It should also be noted that Jarl* Rognvald* father. Alternative written documents by French chroniclers claimed that Rollo's father was actually King of the Isles - a Norse realm in the Western This claim is based on the identification the patronymic Grim* after Ketill Flatnose's Equally, both Rollo and Ketill had ancestors accounts were written a century after Rollo the commission of Rollo's grandson, Richard Rollo's mother was a Scandinavian noblewoman But this parental claim relies on a single commissioned by Richard I of Normandy. However, Rollo's Norse name, Hrolfr*, could the maternal side of his family. According to the sagas - the largest pieces was the daughter of Rolv* Nefia*, or Hrolfr* In the Orkneyinga* Saga, the daughter of Rolv* sagas she is Hildr*. In the sagas, a dispute is noted between King During this conflict Rollo's disputed father, along with his brother Gurim*. Rollo is spared execution and forced into clemency for her son. At this time Hildr* composed a skaldic* stanza, is one of few examples composed by a woman It is also why we today know her name. It was said that after his mother had failed to leave Norway, or perhaps Denmark, as the he came from. He then wandered the North Sea in exile, staying As with Rollo's parentage, there is little life. The chroniclers who wrote about him lived were often written to bolster the Norman dynasty they actually happened. The question of where in Scandinavia Rollo historians face when they try to understand Chronicler Dudo Saint-Quentin* and the main after 1066 as well as Orderic* Vitalis*, in was from Denmark. Though later chroniclers - such as Geoffrey and historian, and 12th-century English historian from Norway. To complicate matters further, Icelandic historian the Walker - a man made into myth in the 13th-century and Norwegian kings as well as in the Orkneyinga* Hrolf* the Walker was said to be from late to Jarl* Rognvald* Eysteinsson* and noblewoman Hrolf* the Walker was given his epithet because carry him, so he spent his time walking everywhere. But the claims that Rollo was Hrolf* the and even three centuries after the history investigation in 2016 looked at the remains and his great-grandson Richard the Good, in But the remains in both graves were found The Norwegian archaeologists that undertook they found in the tomb had been moved there II to protect them from graverobbers. This investigation, like the sagas and chronicles With little reliable information available, as his birthdate and birthplace remain somewhat One of the difficulties in identifying his interchangeably at the time, for example "Viking", and "Norwegians" would have all been used and the various people that lived there. The distinctions and national borders between did not exist in the same way at the time If we presume, however, that Rollo was the have been one of six brothers. His elder brothers, Hallad, Einarr* and Hrollaug*, were already grown up by the time that the The younger sons were Ivar, Hrolfr*, thought It is the Norse Sagas that identify Hrolfr* problematic sources as they were written well the sensational over the factual. The Norse Sagas often sought to draw connections familial claims, rather than note genuine However, in the case of Rollo, Scottish and claim that Rollo was Hrolfr*, son of Rognvald It is known that Rollo followed the Old Norse as Norse Paganism. The Old Norse Religion was polytheistic - the Thor, but two sets of gods and goddesses existed, each other in an ancient battle before agreeing The world of the Old Norse Religion also contained giants, elves and spirits of nature, which As the Old Norse Religion was part of an oral a lot of ritual activity. Kings and chiefs played a key role in the public acts of sacrifice in cult houses or Two centuries after Rollo had lived, the Old though elements of Scandinavian folklore survived. The Viking world into which Rollo was born The Vikings of Norway, Denmark and Sweden parts of Europe between the late 8th century They travelled as far apart as the Mediterranean, and North America. The Vikings had a profound impact on the early went, including Scandinavia, the British Isles, East Slavic, Norse and Finnic peoples and Russia. This was the Viking Age. The Vikings were expert sailors and navigators Their distinctive longships were perfect for exploration across the Atlantic. The flexible design of the Viking longships campaigning and for long-distance trade, exploration Generally speaking, these ships were long They were made with overlapping planks according originated in Scandinavia and spread across Their design often favoured speed over load-capacity sailing, rather than open water sailing. But this didn't restrict the Vikings to They voyaged to distant locations to participate edges of the known world. Trade with Byzantium, the Eastern Roman Empire proved especially fruitful. Byzantine silverware, garnet from India and statue are just some of the exotic goods found There is also archaeological evidence that the Islamic Empire and trade hub of the lucrative Silk that must have made its way to the Near Europe by the Vikings, appears in graves across The Vikings regularly plied the Volga River seal fat for boat sealant, and the slaves As an exceptionally mobile people, the Vikings we might think. The movement of people and the tendency of wives influenced the genetic and historical Foreign cultural influences, from styles of the connections between Scandinavia and the Exotic jewellery, carnelian beads from India noblewomen and the fashion trickled down to The most culturally mixed places in the Viking There were many important trading ports, in Birka was a melting pot of exotic goods, foreign Viking Birka was Sweden's oldest town and people, with over 2,000 graves, and many more graveyard. The Viking Age of migration, trade and wealth across Scandinavia. The discovery of goods in Birka from the Middle networks developed by the Vikings. Eastern textiles, an "Allah ring" featuring and Dirham coins from al-Shah, modern-day have all been found here. Birka was abandoned around 975 when Sigtuna, the northeast of the island city. Other important Viking trading ports included the Jutland peninsula, and Kaupang*, meaning in Norway, near modern Oslo. There were also thriving Viking trading bases York in England, Staraya* Ladoga* on the Volkhov* and Novgorod*, the old capital of Kievan Rus'. The Viking trading network which spread across vaster than the raiding one for which the The versatility of the Viking longships made and exploration. The speed, shallow draft, manoeuvrability essential to Viking raiding strategies. The success of Viking raids relied heavily Given that the same ships were used for raiding period, it would have been impossible for Vikings were traders or had come with a bloodier Thi important element of surprise restricted - just as with the infamous raid on the religious England, in 793 AD. Vikings had been travelling and trading along years before they turned their minds to the The Vikings did not restrict their raiding alone. Raids occurred on the coasts, internal waterways Scotland, Francia, in the Rhineland, and what eastern territories between the Baltic and Evidence suggests Viking raiding routes even and beyond Europe into the Middle East. In particular the Frankish city of Rouen and were targeted repeatedly. The reputation of the Vikings as fearsome routes they had developed to Byzantium, now As early as 839, Swedish emissaries are known Not long after, Scandinavians started to serve large numbers that by the late 10th century formed and traditionally contained a large This offer of employment in the Varangian law had to be passed to limit this loss of that any man staying in "Greece", the Empire could not inherit. This drain was made worse by the heavy recruitment Rus' between 980 and 1060 and England from The Thingmen, or Assembly Retinue unit served great number of Norwegians and Swedes; they against other Viking raiders. The Vikings proved to be effective mercenaries In the early Viking period, raiding and trading the only occupation for Viking men, many of Those that did raid and trade, did so in the of the year - when calmer weather would enable Sea and English Channel and trading across Then they would return to Scandinavia for inadvisable. But the seasonal interactions with the coasts to become something much more permanent as, settle more permanently in some of the places The late 9th century - around the time that Viking settlement outside of Scandinavia - the The invasion of the Great Heathen Army - or - into England ended in a peace in which Viking became known as the Danelaw, with its centre This region experienced increased Scandinavian and languages, resulting in an Anglo-Norse in the north of England today. As the population in Scandinavia increased, to the nearby British Isles where they had up more peaceful pastimes such as farming Viking navigators voyaged north from the English in settlements in the Shetland, Orkney and a short while, Newfoundland. The Vikings were the first Europeans to reach Newfoundland - which they called Vinland - around Viking settlements were also established along including near the Dnieper River - an important Rus' and the Eastern Roman Empire - as well Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. In this region, the Viking Rurik* dynasty were replaced, after the Time of Troubles, They took control of territories in Slavic and annexed Kiev in 882 to serve as the capital The Age of Viking Expansion had a long-lasting From these Viking colonies, connections and emerged, from the Normans of Normandy and Ireland, to the Rus people, and islanders The ruling groups, as well as the general as the current royal family of Great Britain from these Viking settlers and invaders. During the Viking Age in which Rollo lived, and Sweden did not exist. The general Scandinavian region was loosely and language, but no real geographical distinctions This is one of the reasons why it is difficult Rollo were born. Through the Viking period the Norse homelands replaced the small, often ill-defined, kingdoms. The names of these Scandinavian kings are Viking period. And it was only after the Viking Age had come Denmark and Sweden gradually acquired distinct at the same time as Christianisation. The Christianisation of Europe, which had during Rollo's lifetime. The powerhouse behind the Christianisation France. France had been united, somewhat briefly, Carolingian Empire, before it was divided During Rollo's time, the Kingdom of West territory of modern-day France. Though the eastern territories of Lorraine, and also Brittany in the west, remained just After the impressive power and influence of of the First Holy Roman Empire by Pope Leo monarchs was hugely restricted in comparison. This was partly due to the growing power of The power vacuum left by weak royal authority as were conflicts between the vassals and The period was also marked by endless Viking and the Norsemen, which eventually resulted the North in 911. Viking raids in West Francia began in 820, continued regularly until peace was signed of West Francia in 911. It is believed that the first Viking raids around 820. Thirteen ships reached the Seine bay, where the unexpected shore guard, were forced to on the bank of the Seine. In 841 a better prepared Viking fleet sailed of Rouen on the 14th of May. The Viking in charge of this fleet - Asgeir* home an enormous amount of loot, in particular on the 24th May and from the ransom paid on monastery of Fontenelle* and sixty-eight captives. Paris itself was besieged on the 28th of March Reginherus*. This huge 120-ship fleet carried around 6,000 Charles the Bald of France to pay 7,000 livres, return for Paris to be spared. But this payment did not bring an end to the In 851 Asgeir* and his men were back on the of Fontenelle*. Once they returned there again eighty-nine to plunder, and so burned it down. The next year, Asgeir* and his force raided base in Rouen. In the face of the Frankish army, they had they controlled the important entrance to By 853, new groups of Vikings, mainly Norwegians up the Seine and establishing their own bases. The Frankish army of Charles the Bald was failed, negotiate with the Vikings. Significant Viking attacks on Paris and on in 853, 855, 857 and 859. Indeed by 858 the raids in Francia had become Ironside, allegedly the son of Ragnar Lothbrok as Hasting attacked the region just before the Mediterranean. The year 859 saw a redoubling of Viking efforts struggle over territory with his half-brother, Taking advantage of the internal turmoil of in England as well as in France, the Vikings Laon* and Beauvais*, where bishops were executed In the year of 860 - the believed year of the order to build fortified bridges across and the Frankish heartland against Viking He also hired the services of Weland*, a Viking Seine Vikings. Weland* besieged the Vikings, but accepted let them escape. In the summer of 860 the Seine Viking chieftains as far as Italy. They sailed up the River Arno to sack the At the same time, Viking raiders led by Weland* the capital of Wessex, and then set it ablaze. Weland* and his warriors then moved even further forces. Back in West Francia, King Charles the Bald to attack Weland* and his Vikings, who then Christianity and be baptised. A tribute, called Danegeld*, was raised as This pattern of military submission, payment lifetime in an attempt to control the Vikings But Viking raids in West Francia continued, settlements, though it was not until Rollo Viking settlement was created in France. What Rollo did before the establishment of There is a particularly large gap in the historical and the first report of him taking up the The earliest reference to Rollo comes from lay waste to the region, likely led or co-led Norman historian Dudo of Saint-Quentin*, who stated that Rollo had seized Rouen in 876. This claim is supported by another chronicler, of the Breton March buffer between France the Vikings which nearly levelled Rouen and In the end, several coastal provinces in the including Bayeux*. Chronicler Dudo recorded that while ruling the Count of Rennes*, a beautiful woman named Although her parentage is debated, it is possible II of Neustria*, who was captured by Rollo. It is possible though that this claim of Poppa's by Dudo to legitimise the lineage of their Poppa remained the wife more danico - a medieval custom" - and as Rollo subsequently married that Poppa was from a powerful Christian noble monogamous marriage. It seems more likely that Poppa was actually where Rollo had traded or raided or from Bayeux* Not content with Bayeux* and the other coastal across the Seine Valley. In the 885-886 siege of Paris, it was said raiders, before they were pushed back by Count Then in 911, a group of Vikings led by Rollo Chartres*, south-west of Paris. A resounding victory at Chartres* on the 26th to negotiate with Rollo. After consulting with his trusted advisers, stop the Viking raids, other than the age-old was to turn Rollo from enemy into ally. Charles sent the Archbishop of Rouen to Rollo for his sworn loyalty to Charles. The land offered in what is today Normandy But Rollo consulted with his Danish chiefs land that, though currently desolate, had Rollo decided to accept Charles' proposal. The deal also included the caveat that Rollo Charles' daughter Gisela. But when the day of the baptism arrived, Rollo many years to restore the health and prosperity Again Charles' counsellors encouraged him protect the kingdom of West Francia. Now the matter of baptism also weighed into to Christianity would be an important victory Charles first offered Rollo the addition of was too marshy. Then Charles offered Brittany, an independent but which bordered the lands already offered The date of Rollo's baptism and marriage Rollo swore loyalty to Charles and ceased his promised lands. The resulting Treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte* controlled all of the land from the River and westwards to the sea, as well as the independent The Treaty was to be finalised by a pledge on Rollo's part. He was asked to kiss the foot of King Charles Chronicler Dudo noted that Rollo declared: of any man and no man's foot will I kiss." Instead, at the urging of the Franks, he ordered which led to, according to Dudo a humorous The warrior immediately grasped the king's still standing, which caused Charles to land and the horror of the Franks. After taking his oath of fealty, Rollo proceeded and settled his capital at Rouen. According to the deal, Rollo was baptised was held up by later Christian writers as Rollo's story was embellished and presented over paganism. If this savage, pagan Viking chief could be Christian virtues and bring Christian law into the pagan North was inevitable. But these Christian writers ignored both Rollo's a problem for anyone in the present trying fact that he is said to have died a pagan. The question of Rollo's marriage to Gisela Chroniclers, such as the Norman chronicler two wives: the captive Poppa taken at Bayeux* to Danish custom" and Gisela, his wife more custom". It is believed that Rollo and Gisela married but given that her father, Charles, had only years old or an illegitimate child. The marriage of Gisela and Rollo is also called records of a royal princess or her marriage may be entirely fictional. It is also suspicious that the son of Rollo as legitimate by Christian Franks and that A child resulting from the legal Christian displaced William as a legitimate heir. It is clear that after Gisela died, if she Poppa. Although the Treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte* Normandy, the policy behind the agreement In fact, the Treaty was simply a continuation the Vikings for generations. Charles the Simple knew from experience - his off the Viking raiders was a fruitless strategy. In the past only paying off the Viking raiders solution for West Francia. Appeasement was the only viable path open The main difference between the earlier payoffs Previous Viking leaders had preferred to pillage Rollo took the Treaty seriously, honoured in Normandy to protect the people he had sworn Equally, his promise to end Viking raids in are no records of Viking raids in West Francia Rollo quickly took up the mantle of leadership and reformation. He imposed law and order, promoted peace and He restored churches that had been devastated defences. The lands he had been given were restored Rollo ruled not as a Frankish vassal but as He established a law code that resembled those In particular, he worked to reform passive acceptable behaviours and morals. His new law code emphasised responsibility Punishments became more severe, including as theft, murder, assault and fraud. A particular tale of fraud and the justice highlights the changes that he made. It was said that a farmer's wife tried to farm tools be left in the field overnight robbed. Rollo reimbursed the man for the loss of his the suspects of the theft. After no culprit was found, the wife was beaten her husband admitted he had known about the were found guilty and hanged. The event was said to have terrified the local became a territory free from petty criminality Harsh punishments were also handed out to reputation, or that of his wife - the punishment public square. Cases of false witness, or anything that wasted were hugely reduced. These examples of Viking justice seemed harsh it was argued that Rollo's conversion, and which would take time. The mixture of Viking and Christian traditions morality was to be expected for a period of In any case, no bishop could argue against His maintenance of law and order and the prosperity Rollo's reign over Normandy was a success. Though later chronicles often referred to actually held this title. His great-grandson, Richard II, was the real Later historians have sometimes given Rollo this title either. Earlier historians and chroniclers called claimed for himself is unknown. While he lived, Rollo would have simply been Rollo honoured the agreement made with Charles Seine Vikings in order to maintain the peace. But this changed in 922 when Charles was deposed. Charles' successor, Robert I, could not Rollo argued that his pledge of loyalty and successors and especially not to Robert, who Instead, Rollo remained loyal to Charles and Declaring the agreement now void, Rollo took to expand his territory westwards and pressure The pressure proved effective. An agreement was made between Robert I and which handed over the provinces of Bessin, and Maine, a province south of Normandy. The westward movement of Rollo's authority which had perhaps been King Robert's intent. Robert's motives behind this additional the move has been painted equally as a method land, an attempt to restrain and Christianize of defending the Franks near Bayeux* against After this reference to the expansion of his in 923, Rollo again disappears from history. Rollo retired from ruling Normandy in 927 927-942. It is likely that Rollo died shortly after, The final brief mention of Rollo in the early and in 933 it is noted that his son, William, from the Cotentin* peninsula in Normandy southwards Rollo's immediate successors William Longsword, I, also known as Richard the Fearless, and to rule Normandy in the way of their ancestor Normandy prosperity, order and peace. Over time Normandy was transformed from a The hierarchy and system of law and order in France as a whole, but retained a distinct The law code in Normandy emerged first as in Latin in the early 13th century. Sometime between 1235 and 1245 William the had Normandy's law code rewritten, becoming the customary law code of Normandy. The earlier custom law represented a combination law. William the Conqueror's adaptations saw of royal legislation, Roman law, medieval The Coutume* de Normandie was still in force in 1789. It finally ceased to be used in France in the laws and customs of the French provinces Rollo's descendants adopted the Feudal System in England after the Norman Conquest. The Feudal System codified a regimented social In this system, rights and obligations were classes were strengthened. The peasants were attached to the land in Land ownership was the right of the upper the peasants worked, the upper classes defended Under Feudalism, the Duke of Normandy paid return for the land of Normandy. But Normandy - like many other regions within and its distinct culture. Prior to Rollo's arrival in Normandy, the from those in other regions of France, such The distinct identity of Normandy and the William Longsword and Richard the Fearless culture with that of their Viking ancestors, As Vikings had done for generations, the Normans claims to land won by conquest and took up in a bilingual society. Norman elites would talk amongst themselves foreign wives in English, Italian, Spanish This resulted in increasing assimilation, Normans was bilingual, the third was monolingual. The language spoken in Normandy became known Gallo-Franks. The Normans did not restrict themselves to Diplomatic connections were sought after and luck in foreign climes and find foreign brides. Even Rollo's daughters were married off Rollo's daughter with his first wife Poppa, married to William III, Count of Poitou* and Another of Rollo's daughters, Cadlinar*, to a Scottish mother, married an Irish prince of South Brega*, which is north of Dublin. Over the two centuries following Rollo's of England, Ireland, Sicily and Antioch, leaving and the Near East. The Viking and Norman impact on England was The last Anglo-Saxon King, Harold Godwinson, directly ascended the English throne - Sweyn* Cnut from 1016 to 1035. But it was Rollo's great-great-great-grandson, England and its monarchy after the Norman William came to the throne after King Edward claimants to the English throne: Anglo-Saxon But William did have a claim to the throne had been King Edward the Confessor's mother. The success of the Norman Conquest of England - a skill passed down to him from his marauding Upon arriving on the English coast, William had developed in France, pillaged the coastline William's tactical brilliance and Viking and England was then ruled by the Duke of When installed on the throne of England, William Norman heritage - he continued the family to secure their loyalty and cooperated with He also built huge castles and fortifications, the White Tower, or Tower of London. William's castles spread across the breadth Norman power and permanence. Besides the landscape altered by William's in England also left a lasting legacy on English William the Conqueror's Domesday Book surveyed 26% of the land and the rest now lay almost elite were replaced over time and only around The language of the court and government was As in Normandy, the Feudal System was formalised The magnates with titles and territory given - forming the prerunner of the House of Lords to run local affairs. The Normans also left their mark upon the William the Conqueror's granddaughter Matilda to 1148, and her son Henry Plantagenet became The current British royal family are direct therefore the House of Normandy. Another line of the House of Normandy - the The Vikings had long been involved in the As early as 860 there are reports of Francia-based Chronicler Dudo reported that Vikings used in north-west Italy, Pisa and Fiesole*, north Viking mercenaries working for Byzantium, crossed the land of Italy many times. In 965 Arab Muslims had seized Sicily from and conflict between regional powers in the to fill. Norman Robert Guiscard*, then Duke of Apulia of Sicily by the Pope who wanted Robert and and revert it to its Christian state. In May 1061, the Norman brothers invaded and Marco d'Alunzio*, in Messina. Continuing to learn from the regions and cultures combined Lombard, northern Italy, Byzantine Norman-Arab architecture found in the fortifications The assault on Sicily continued for another city fall to the Normans on 10th January 1071. Robert, Duke of Sicily, awarded his brother the island with the aim for Roger to take land. By February 1091 Roger had finally conquered the island of Malta too. Latin Christianity returned to the island The Kingdom of Sicily fell in 1194 when Holy on behalf of his wife Constance, the daughter But Norman influence in Sicily was not ended - was crowned King Frederick II of Sicily in 1212, expanding the influence of the House Around the time of the conquering of Sicily, Antakya in Turkey was established around 1098. This was the time of the First Crusade, 1096-1099, many Normans served. Many crusaders who settled in Antioch were Sicily. A siege of Antioch in October 1097 had been Calabria and Sicily - Bohemond* of Taranto. Legends of huge suffering during this winter of crusaders being forced to eat the bodies After Bohemond* emerged victorious against adding to his title of Prince of Taranto, Bohemond* then faced a run of bad luck, including Byzantine Empire, and Antioch being reduced Empire. But the rulership of Antioch continued to to his nephew Tancred* and then to Tancred's* tributary state of the Mongol Empire in 1260. Back in France, Rollo's descendants survived old Viking strategies: ruthless military action in the enemy. The Normans were masters at taking advantage - a weakness which had left them unable to to stay. In 987 the House of Normandy had helped appoint to the French throne. The Capetian* dynasty lasted until 1792 with all periods except the Bonaparte Empires. The relationship between Richard I of Normandy, similar to that between Rollo and King Charles Richard gave Hugh his loyalty and supported Equally, Richard II of Normandy shared a deep France and also provided him with military The Dukes of Normandy regularly married their family and to neighbouring noblemen. Rollo's strategy of agreeing to overlordship for his descendants. The Dukes of Normandy swore loyalty to the their territory in their own way, as Rollo But after 1066, the elevation of the House was of another country made the relationship As King, William and his descendants no longer The House of Normandy became increasingly on to rule over not only England, Ireland Gascony and Aquitaine. Rollo's descendants continued to rule Normandy Lackland to the French King Philip Augustus. The title of Duke of Normandy was then seized own relations as the King could no longer The administration of the Duchy was taken Rouen was built to ensure compliance. An attempt by King Henry V, a descendant of the region temporarily back under the control lost again during the reign of his son, King Norman law did continue to be used in Normandy, forced the King of France to sign the Norman encroachment of royal power, restricted the made the judgements of Normandy's main court times as the French monarchy became more powerful. Rollo himself would not have envisioned the of his direct line, as the Vikings were more But his role in the founding of the Duchy controlled Normandy and expanded their reach The early chroniclers, like Dudo of Saint-Quentin* Rollo as the sole founder of the great dynasty Dudo of Saint-Quentin* - a Frank who developed rulers of Normandy and became their historian a level of detail that had been previously He wrote between 995-1015 with the intention Rollo. His work was then built upon by Norman monk Norman Conquest of England in 1066 with even dukes. Dudo and William of Jumieges* shaped the their transformation from pagan Viking raiders Dudo's narrative that Rollo had almost solely somewhat replaced by William of Jumieges'* Vikings, such as Bjorn* Ironside, and the as the central hero in the story of the dynasty. Later writers have almost always relied on solidifying their views and interpretations As with many great Vikings, the real Rollo around him. Just as Rollo has become more myth than man, Modern interpretations of the Vikings almost barbarity, to the neglect of the achievements Popular conceptions of the Vikings ignore inscriptions, the intricacies of the Old Norse poets and historians. The Vikings had their own distinctive law art and architecture. Unlike modern depictions, most Vikings were not bloodthirsty raiders. The advanced and culturally mixed Viking society sources has been flattened out in favour of horned helmets, which the Vikings never wore. Where the Old Norse Religion is concerned, violent aspects of the religion, such as the of paganism with Christianity. The 18th and 19th centuries in particular the Vikings presented as noble savages saved Today the only moments of Viking history widely and raiding. British schools as a rule teach the events brutality of Norman William the Conqueror TV series focus on warfare and family feuds. Rollo receives coverage in Vikings the TV the formation and defence of Normandy is told almost entirely on his transactions with Charles life is left out. The debates about Rollo's parentage, birthplace need answering in order to understand Rollo The legacy and myths that grew up around Rollo, may have been exaggerated to bolster the lineage - embellished or not - is what is important That a Viking of uncertain heritage could King, and then make such a permanent success Perhaps evaluating his success in Normandy that of his successors, makes up for the large What do you think of Rollo of Normandy? Was he merely a blood-thirsty Viking or was was to shape much of medieval Europe? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.