Hey, Dr Bernard here. This case was an accident that is becoming I am going to describe to you what a case Know that the presentation can look different A massive ingestion will affect a toddler, than it will an adult. In the United States, your local poison center any time you might think one of these accidents specialist will be there on the phone to help. I'll also tell you why the toxicity of this as well as some steps you can take to help you be in the presence of children. A girl mistakenly ate 96 gummy edibles for This is what happened to her brain. NP is a 12-year-old girl, presenting to the Her mother Rebecca tells the admitting nurse When Rebecca tried talking to her daughter, NP was born into a happy family, but her dad mom because of one particular kind of food Tony had an herbal habit. When he was younger those herbs would just would totally have no idea how they got in But, as a connoisseur of sound natural plants believed in an oil extract his friend would cookies and gummy candies. This oil contained all of the cannabinoid consuming the herb in its various forms. Just having some delicious treats he thought. One day, Tony accidentally ate too many gummy As he lost track of where he was, he walked then he fell down the stairs. Rebecca, unhappy with her husband living this But Tony was undeterred. One day, he purchased a mega stash. In the kitchen cabinet was a bag of regular He thought of a good way to hide this from into this bag of candy, simply disguised so back in to the cabinet. The next day, NP decided to look for some In the cabinet was a really large bag of delicious sat down on the couch. On the first taste, NP thought the gummy candies while chewing, with just the right kind of fact that there was a dose of psychoactive She had no idea that if she ate more than She kept grabbing more and more from the bag As the hour passed, NP started feeling different. At first, she didn't know exactly what was She could feel the sides of her eyes start Her heart started beating faster and more She noticed her breathing was different than The images on her tablet screen started to But then her stomach started to squirm. At first, she didn't realize that she had but as she looked, the contents were mostly And as her stomach felt more and more unstable, not because she wanted to, but because she but it never did. On the way outside to get some fresh air, Unaware of where she really was, she fell Hearing this chaos, and completely unaware find her daughter on the floor. Asking if her daughter was OK, Rebecca couldn't In a panic, Rebecca, thinking that her daughter she calls for 911, and NP's brought to the At examination, doctors noted that NP was When they could get a response from her, the She couldn't tell them where she was, and Because she fell down the stairs, they were injury. But a scan showed that everything was normal. A blood test also found nothing abnormal in If NP consumed a majority of her dad's mega created an obtunded mental state for NP, how the difference between head injury falling massive ingestion of edibles? The cannabis plant has an abundance of chemicals effect on the body. The ones that are psychoactive are cannabinoids, the most well known being also known as THC. This shouldn't be confused with CBD, which cannabis plant and has been shown to help seizures don't respond well to multiple CBD doesn't appear to be psychoactive. This brings us to the idea of absorption. Many times, when people think of cannabis, Normally, when we breathe, the oxygen from exhaled. That inhaled oxygen sticks to the red blood body. When oxygenated blood exits the heart, a large into the Carotid Artery, and in to the brain. If someone is inhaling smoke from an herb gas from the smoke gets into the blood, pumped the carotid artery, and directly in to the This is how delta-9 tetrahydrocannibinol can because it gets to the brain quickly through But NP didn't inhale, she ate the edibles absorption. Anything eaten by mouth goes into the stomach, is then absorbed into the liver, where it's It's metabolized and broken down. So, when something is eaten, it doesn't go The interesting thing about is that in the liver, it is broken down to 11-hydroxy-tetrahydrocannibinol. One goal of liver metabolism is to make chemicals Hydro meaning water and philic meaning affinity Making a chemical have more water affinity so it can dissolve in water and concentrate the body, hence why the liver is called the Water is made of hydrogen and oxygen, so when they should technically have more affinity HYDROXY tetrahydrocannibinol, this metabolite HOWEVER, nature isn't straight forward because 11 HYDROXY THC happens to than delta-9 THC, meaning as NP mistakenly her liver turned the mega dose of THC into of THC. The state of Colorado did research and estimated could be almost 6 times more potent than delta inhalation. But it doesn't stop here. Inhaling the smoke is known to exert the full But when an edible is consumed by mouth, the the liver, and then through the blood stream And during that time, especially if the person within, one can consume a dose 10 times or with the effect getting more and more intense the blood, bringing us back to NP. In the emergency room, the results of a urine medical team that present in NP's urine, This should make sense, the liver is there have eliminated some cannabinoids into the And we know that the liver's attempt to more potent psychoactive compound in the first This brings us back to hydrophilicity. If a chemical mixes well with water, it won't So, if there exists an affinity for water, exists, something called lipophilicity. Lipo from Greek referring to fats, or oils. NP's dad Tony had a friend who made the These candies were infused with an oil that raw cannabis plant material, and was infused Delta 9 THC is lipophilic. 11 hydroxy THC than Delta 9. The nerves in the body are covered by a myelin and these are made of fats. The brain, and the cells within are also made All of this bringing us to As Delta 9 and 11 hydroxy THC reaches the Because of the lipophilicity, it preferentially stays in fat tissue like the in the blood stream. An amount of 11 Hydroxy THC will make it back time to 11 nor 9 carboxy THC, which isn't to be contained in the organs, and slowly its way into the urine in detectable amounts So we know delta 9 THC in edibles becomes We know it preferentially distributes into But why does it produce the psychoactive effect? Well Delta 9 and 11 hydroxy THC both happen nerves connect. Naturally, our bodies produce endo meaning from within and genous referring to production. Our body doesn't make THC, but it makes compounds Endogenous cannabinoids appear to be used send signals throughout the nerves. When THC is present, it looks the concentrations This is what produces the effect, but because in NP, it explains what is happening to her This disruption in normal neurotransmitter cannabis hyperemesis will empty their stomach multiple times, because but there's a lot more to cannabinoid Some strains of plant will change neurotransmitter of the cannabinoids in edibles may be different stimulant or depressant isn't accurate. An interesting point is that cannabinoid receptors stem. This is important is because this is where breathing, meaning for adolescents and adults of edibles, it typically won't lead to respiratory This appears to be a different situation for in context of cannabis poisoning, as it appears ingestion of THC, may need respiratory support, adult case. Because of this, for very young children, ingestion, do not wait, seek help from your The United States Food and Drug Administration pediatric edible ingestion has been increasing, across the United States. Some of the reason could be the fact that look like candy you can find at stores. If they're cookies or brownies, the packaging of the clear plastic containers we often find There's also a delta 8 THC, of which products It's generally accepted that its effects not a little "less" potent maybe causing And the metabolic pathway for it is similar, more potent than delta 8 THC. A news story in late 2022 noted a death caused by delta 8 tetrahydrocannabinol toxicity in Medical Examiner, with another case listed by at least a few months, both of these deaths not receiving early respiratory support during can present, although we about those particular cases. A good way to prevent this from happening, is to place edibles in a physical location I'm not singling out cannabis versus other there can be many. As it is right now, this stuff happens to fun treats which can confuse kids, and if what you want to have in the house. If it's not realistic not having edibles can't see it and can't get to it, like If you leave the edibles in a hot car, or those can compromise the stability of the recommended places. There's also medication lock boxes that Typically if there's even a little barrier because the person can't be bothered. For NP, the hospital had a conversation with returned for cannabinoids. Despite it being an accident, Child Protective team because of Federal Law. But as it turned out, this was an accident. After some observation in the hospital, care as NP was able to make a full recovery. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.