When I was nine years old, I went off to summer camp And my mother packed me a suitcase which to me seemed like Because in my family, And this might sound antisocial to you, but for us it was really just You have the animal warmth of your family but you are also free to go inside your own mind. And I had this idea that camp was going to be (Laughter) I had a vision of 10 girls cozily reading books (Laughter) Camp was more like a keg party And on the very first day, our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer every day for the rest of the summer And it went like this: &quot;R-O-W-D-I-E, that's the way we spell rowdie. Rowdie, rowdie, let's get rowdie.&quot; (Laughter) Yeah. So I couldn't figure out why we were supposed to be so rowdy, or why we had to spell (Laughter) But I recited a cheer. I recited I did my best. And I just waited for the time But the first time that I took the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me, &quot;Why mellow, of course, of R-O-W-D-I-E. And then the second time I tried it, the counselor came up to me and she repeated the point and said we should all work very hard And so I put my books away, back in their suitcase, and I put them under my bed, and there they stayed And I felt kind of guilty about this. I felt as if the books needed me somehow, and they were calling out to me But I did forsake them until I was back home with my family Now, I tell you this story I could have told you all the times that I got the message that somehow my quiet was not necessarily the right way to go, that I should be trying to pass And I always sensed deep down and that introverts were But for years I denied this intuition, and so I became a Wall Street instead of the writer partly because I needed to prove to myself And I was always going off to crowded bars when I really would have preferred And I made these that I wasn't even aware Now this is what many introverts do, and it's our loss for sure, but it is also our colleagues' loss and our communities' loss. And at the risk of sounding grandiose, Because when it comes we need introverts doing A third to a half of the population a third to a half. So that's one out of every two So even if you're an extrovert yourself, I'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep We all internalize it without even having a language Now, to see the bias clearly, you need to understand It's different from being shy. Shyness is about fear of social judgment. Introversion is more about, how do you respond to stimulation, including social stimulation. So extroverts really crave whereas introverts feel and their most switched-on when they're in quieter, Not all the time -- but a lot of the time. So the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation But now here's where the bias comes in. Our most important institutions, our schools and our workplaces, they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts' need And also we have that I call the new groupthink, which holds that all creativity comes from a very oddly gregarious place. So if you picture the typical When I was going to school, We sat in rows of desks like this, and we did most of our work But nowadays, your typical classroom four or five or six or seven kids And kids are working Even in subjects like math which you think would depend kids are now expected to act And for the kids who prefer to go off those kids are seen as outliers often or, worse, as problem cases. And the vast majority of teachers reports believing that as opposed to an introvert, even though introverts and are more knowledgeable, according to research. (Laughter) Okay, same thing is true Now, most of us work in open plan offices, without walls, where we are subject to the constant And when it comes to leadership, introverts are routinely passed over even though introverts much less likely to take outsize risks -- which is something And interesting research has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes because when they are managing they're much more likely to let whereas an extrovert get so excited about things that they're putting and other people's ideas might not Now in fact, some of our transformative I'll give you some examples. Eleanor Roosevelt, Rosa Parks, Gandhi -- all these people described themselves And they all took the spotlight, even though every bone in their bodies And this turns out to have because people could feel not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure they were there because they were driven to do Now I think at this point that I actually love extroverts. I always like to say some of my best including my beloved husband. And we all fall along the introvert/extrovert spectrum. Even Carl Jung, the psychologist said that there's no such thing or a pure extrovert. He said that such a man if he existed at all. And some people fall smack in the middle and we call these people ambiverts. And I often think that they have But many of us do recognize And what I'm saying is that culturally, We need more of a yin and yang This is especially important when it comes to creativity because when psychologists look what they find are people who are very good and advancing ideas, but who also have a serious And this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient So Darwin, he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, he dreamed up many in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house And he was actually afraid to meet for fear that they were expecting him and would be disappointed Steve Wozniak invented sitting alone in his cubicle where he was working at the time. And he says that he never would have had he not been too introverted when he was growing up. Now, of course, this does not mean that we should and case in point, is Steve Wozniak to start Apple Computer -- but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people And in fact, we have known for centuries It's only recently that If you look at most you will find seekers -- Moses, Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad -- seekers who are going off by themselves where they then have profound that they then bring back So, no wilderness, no revelations. This is no surprise, though, if you look at the insights It turns out that we can't without instinctively mirroring, Even about seemingly like who you're attracted to, you will start aping the beliefs without even realizing And groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant even though there's zero correlation between being the best talker I mean zero. So -- (Laughter) You might be following the person but you might not. And do you really want Much better for everybody generate their own ideas freed from the distortions and then come together as a team to talk them through and take it from there. Now if all this is true, then why are we getting it so wrong? Why are we setting up our schools And why are we making about wanting to just go off One answer lies deep Western societies, and in particular the U.S., have always favored the man of action But in America's early days, we lived in what historians where we still, for their inner selves And if you look at the self-help they all had titles with things like &quot;Character, the Grandest And they featured role models who was praised for being Ralph Waldo Emerson called him &quot;A man who does not But then we hit the 20th century, and we entered a new culture that historians call What happened is we had evolved to a world of big business. And so suddenly people are moving And instead of working alongside people now they are having to prove themselves So, quite understandably, qualities like magnetism and charisma And sure enough, the self-help books and they start to have names like &quot;How to Win Friends And they feature as their role models So that's the world we're living in today. That's our cultural inheritance. Now none of this is to say and I'm also not calling The same religions who send their sages also teach us love and trust. And the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies to solve them working together. But I am saying that the more freedom the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique So now I'd like to share with you Guess what? Books. I have a suitcase full of books. Here's Margaret Atwood, &quot;Cat's Eye.&quot; Here's a novel by Milan Kundera. And here's &quot;The Guide for the Perplexed&quot; But these are not exactly my books. I brought these books with me because they were written My grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small that was my favorite place partly because it was filled with and partly because I mean literally every table, had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface Just like the rest of my family, my grandfather's favorite thing to do But he also loved his congregation, and you could feel this love every week for the 62 years He would takes the fruits and he would weave these intricate tapestries And people would come from all over But here's the thing about my grandfather. Underneath this ceremonial role, he was really modest so much so that when he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation And even away from the podium, when you called him to say hello, he would often end for fear that he was taking up But when he died at the age of 94, the police had to close down to accommodate the crowd of people And so these days I try to learn in my own way. So I just published a book and it took me about seven years to write. And for me, that seven years because I was reading, I was writing, I was thinking, I was researching. It was my version of my grandfather's hours But now all of a sudden and my job is to be talking about introversion. (Laughter) And that's a lot harder for me, because as honored as I am this is not my natural milieu. So I prepared for moments I spent the last year every chance I could get. And I call this my &quot;year (Laughter) And that actually helped a lot. But I'll tell you, what helps even more is my sense, my belief, my hope to introversion and to quiet we truly are poised on the brink I mean, we are. And so I am going to leave you now with three calls for action Number one: Stop the madness for constant group work. Just stop it. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) And I want to be clear because I deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual, chatty you know, the kind and serendipitously have That is great. It's great for introverts But we need much more privacy and much more autonomy at work. School, same thing. We need to be teaching kids but we also need to be teaching them This is especially important They need to work on their own because that is where deep thought Okay, number two: Go to the wilderness. Be like Buddha, have your own revelations. I'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build and never talk to each other again, but I am saying that we could and get inside our own heads Number three: Take a good look and why you put it there. So extroverts, maybe your suitcases Or maybe they're full of champagne glasses Whatever it is, I hope you take and grace us with your energy But introverts, you being you, you probably have the impulse what's inside your own suitcase. And that's okay. But occasionally, just occasionally, I hope you will open up your suitcases because the world needs you and it So I wish you the best and the courage to speak softly. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)