Hello, I'm Helen Van Wyk, and welcome to my how to paint a self-portrait--a time of study. cooperative model in the world. Takes coffee you're doing, isn't distracting you with look. Notice the portrait that I did of is one I did of myself in shadow, and today Let me start. I have set up a mirror, are done. I see my reflection, and I'll a point of reference, I'll see the and paint. It's not this because that As in all paintings, you have the problem of the subject. So I would like to place the and I have an easy way of getting the and then I could also measure across how wide I in without that. Now I would like to see where where the neck is--and I can put my brush is now following my shoulder line, and I can my mouth is going to be there. I can Now, I'm going to put my brush along this shoulder that. I do this even when I have someone else to the model instead of to myself. It's an easy looks so. Rembrandt did 70 self-portraits that we painter--he studied so much. And when you're any pressure coming from the model. One of the is that the model wonders whether he's going to be worth all the money he's going to have to pay So that gives a general overall silhouette. Let of the proportions, where my hair is, where the nose, and the mouth. Don't draw eyes, I'm seeing myself not full face, slightly side is going to be a little smaller than this I call this stage of painting a portrait that I can walk on with light and dark. Let me you how to do these things because a big brush should start boldly with a big brush because it all the little shapes are part of the and the little shapes within them Now, my lesson today is not only on how you it's also going to be on how to paint eyes. But of my eyes--how they are placed within this whole skull, they're holes, they're sockets. Eyes are etc. I don't know whether I'll be able to paint My lighting today is coming from the left. You in your studio. Instead of lighting your subject, lighting on you. All the shadows on my face when people see me do a portrait demonstration, we have to sneak up on a likeness--sneak up on the so save the expression and likeness for a good likeness is the basic structure of cheeks, and chin. So I'm putting in a tone for the the mouth area, the lower lip. Sargent said a portrait is a picture of a so I kind of leave it for later. And the hair color--yes, all hair is in the but this light hair has to be dark on the in painting a portrait, you always really you see the subject against. Because I have I'd like to tell you about a doing a quick portrait sketch--Indian red it has fantastic covering power, even starting to use the background quality of the periphery called the lost line, to help it look as though this hair--there's I do believe that so many people's artistic bump into so much fear. You're afraid--I really They say, &quot;Oh, I'm afraid to do that.&quot; So, what Well, what's right hasn't been done yet--it's it's going to look. You address your efforts to So that is an example or a demonstration mirror and how to approach the basic I'd actually put my hand here and my thumb here forehead to the end of the nose and got that that right. And the width--I should have gotten That's how I begin it. Why don't I step Yes, I've worked hard. I've spent a couple of me do the hair shape, the shadow shape, and the to make it look better, and I've advanced the always have a sitting with the model, then I work the model again in a second sitting. This is when of course, and the nose and the mouth, just order to do this, I've cleaned my palette So let me show you how I start the eyes, or I have to place the eyeball itself, and warm gray, blue umber, and alizarin maybe. I've All right, here goes. What I do to that eye, I'll them a matching pair in perspective. And then, and attach that to the shadow of the eyelid so that they both look at me--just right at me. And that's going to help me now Now, of course, I always have to look through for me with glasses, I have the person wear there comes a time when I have to have the person a complicated structure to do--the eyebrow, this the white of the eye, the lower lid that holds the and then the first bag and the second Observing these shapes from the top down gives brush again. I think I might have shown you this from the top down. And I see now light hitting same structure? A little bit. Do I see any light getting there just a little bit. See how nice it the light is striking the white of the eye--only What you do to one eye, do to the other. Always you'll make it so wonderful that the other Now, that lighter tone that is on the greatly the expression. Move it way up, which often happens when I paint a self-portrait helps me see the light and dark marks. So many of because they don't smile. I say, &quot;Well, I at you socially, but when I'm alone, I'm kind to look as best as I can, which So you can see that I've advanced those eye too dark--they look as though they're the only interest throughout the face? By using that same and I see that same tone in the upper lip. The next thing--the nice sable brush--to those lighter tones that seem what I always save for later--lighter flesh eye because I see it fall into the pit of and take this nice new one here. It comes up into shape--the shape of how the light hits the slope of shapes of brushstrokes. You can see I have well, it does take a long time to do a portrait. Before, I just placed the eyes with a dark My eyes are gray-blue. That one's darker And then the highlight--well, before the highlight, very often hits right on the pupil, the lid, the My mother always said, &quot;Helen, I wish you'd put so much life to the picture.&quot; I always think but my goodness, I have so much work to do to In order to put it in, pick up the paint with light that causes that highlight goes into the I hope this has helped you a little bit I'm going to help you paint the color