(sound waves vibrating) - [Narrator] Here's a sound wave. And here's its inverse. Combine them and you have silence. (upbeat music) behind noise-canceling headphones. But it takes a lot of technology to make that seemingly - We have 15 millionths of a second to measure the noise, run it compute that inverse signal, and pop it out through the driver. - [Narrator] Here's how they work. (digital signaling) - [John] One way to that I like to use, is a Slinky. - [Narrator] John Rule developing new algorithms for personalizing noise in Bose Headphones. - [John] We draw them as sine waves, as if something's going back But what's really happening, is that these vibrations through the air. The medium has stayed fixed, but you can see that pulse of energy sort of running through the length of it. - [Narrator] Because sound is just waves, you can cancel a sound wave by introducing an equal and opposite wave. - So what you've got is you've And the way destructive interference works is we say, &quot;Hey, if I could generate an equal and opposite signal, right? I could generate the signal, that's the inverse of that. And if I sum those two things together, I'll be left with a flat line. I'll be left with zero pressure, and that will be interpreted by my brain as the noise having been canceled.&quot; - [Narrator] Bose was the first company to develop Noise Reduction - Dr. Bose was coming and got very frustrated by the fact, that airplanes were very noisy. We can control all sorts of other stuff, why can't we control noise? The first application that we looked at was of canceling noise on airplanes. - [Narrator] Pilots wore its While the technology has the basic science remained the same. Active Noise Cancellation an outer microphone to an inner microphone that make it inside your ear, and also checks if more is making it through, a digital signal processor based on data from the which cancels the background noise, while also playing the music - Think about how fast this has to happen. The sound is obviously propagating at the speed of sound, right? Which is 343 meters per second. If you think about that in terms of the thickness of an earbud, it's getting from the to the inside of the earbud so that's millionths of a second. We're doing math as fast as we can to basically, cancel it - [Narrator] Because everyone's Active Noise Cancellation that can be tuned, based on the user. Bose, for instance, does this (earphones chiming) from the internal microphone to customize noise-canceling This requires a lot of testing, to make sure the algorithms in all types of noisy environments. But eliminating background The next, is figuring based on the context. - I think it's really that noise is not bad. Noise is critical to my My brain uses it to create in what's missing, which is all the time. - [Narrator] Poppy Crum was previously the Chief Scientist at Dolby Laboratories, where she worked for more than a decade. She's led teams focused and platforms that impact sensory systems. - When you think about I like to sort of separate it into three different categories. You know, there's Passive Noise-Canceling, or Passive Noise-Reduction, The second layer would be I mean, it's dynamic to the system, but it's dealing with what we would call, stationary sound, sounds that they're continuous or they're predictable. Examples of that might be a generator or airplane noise. You know, not all the but that general rumble, you're trying to get rid of, - [Narrator] For these predictable noises, current noise-canceling algorithms can quickly identify unwanted sound waves and cancel them out. Beyond that, things get harder. - And then the next layer, which is I think where, you know, the future's still evolving, is when you start being able that are what you would Things that might be a dog barking. And you know, those elements that happen, where you can't predict 'em and you might be able that they're going to happen, but they're things that aren't continuous and aren't constant. - [Narrator] But sometimes, has gone through so many steps you want it back. AirPods Pro have a Transparency Mode, where they recreate the normal Other noise canceling to help you hear your surroundings, like Bose's Aware Mode and that preserve enough background noise to keep you alert to your surroundings. - When you build a technology to a human experience, you need to understand perceives change or perceives and then that becomes how so that you have a continuous So you need labs where you can remove or control every other element. - [Narrator] Noise-cancellation more complex problems, to seamlessly and intelligently eliminate unwanted sounds or Adaptive Audio, which is coming to Apple's AirPods Pro soon, combines noise-cancellation so you can only hear the (bike bell ringing) - [Pedestrian] So you can stay present within your environment, while distracting noises (leaf blower blowing) - It's the thing that They wanna make certain noises go away. So they still wanna hear some things, they don't wanna hear other things. And &quot;Can you just gimme that, you know, just cancels the stuff I don't want to hear.&quot; That's not a thing that but that's the kind of thing that is being worked on. (upbeat music ending)