Yugoslavia. For many, a long-forgotten failed nation. For others, an all-too painful, and recent, A once-united federation made up of six neighboring a simple one. With constant ethnic and religious division, before a breakup would be imminent. But was that the only cause of Yugoslavia's And how did the ethnic disputes actually lead The presence of division and discord between of Yugoslavia had existed for a long while. This was not by any means a new development federation, but the matter did worsen following Previously, Yugoslavia had actually been the of Serbia and the State of Slovenes, Croats This Kingdom was then transformed temporarily shortly after, the Socialist Federal Republic It was at this time that Yugoslavia became Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Slovenia. Before the expansion of republics and particularly already significant disunity between the Serbs as a shaky foundation from the start. While nationalism was a raging problem within stint of partial harmony thanks to President Tito was a wonderful promoter of unity and nationalism within his federation were impressively Moreover, during Tito's term as president, industrially and had a well-effective economy. It appeared that the troubles of Yugoslavia died... Leading up to the president's death, the only some regions within the federation, and he may have gone too far to support the individual The end of Tito's administration also came federation as a whole. Yugoslavia was now heavily in debt after the with the West, which quickly reversed the originally achieved. This also exacerbated the ethnic divisions, which was viewed as vastly unproductive and and Croatia. With these new challenges and the death of unity within the federation, the ethnic divide One of the main causes of this was the fact ethnic lines, meaning that there were different each ethnic group was quite nationalistic. Furthermore, there was also a creation of known as Kosovo and Vojvodina, that complicated When protests broke out in the late 1980s, autonomous provinces tried to fight back against, the thought was that Serbia's communist creating some type of unity. Instead, he justified the Serbs' outrage for reduced autonomy of both Kosovo and Vojvodina. Eventually, after a series of protests known of Milosevic managed to oust the governments the way for allies of Milosevic to be put The leadership of Montenegro was also deposed there too was placed a supporter of Milosevic. This was only the beginning of the conflict Croatia and Slovenia were now joining the Albanian majority, which greatly angered the Protests continued to be held and both police with what the Serbs viewed as an attack against in reaction to Kosovo's calls to become One Bosnian politician and current President the tensions in 1989 with a heartfelt speech "Our fathers died to create Yugoslavia. We will not go down the road to national conflict. We will take the path of Brotherhood and Unity," Though the protestors reacted to his speech - likely given the fact that the Serbs saw root of this national conflict. The lines were now clear - it was the Serbs even the leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The conflict was nowhere near over... As the bickering republics aimed to resolve to only widen, and Yugoslavia was forced into This was a major blow to the communists in by the end of the 1990 elections. The fall of communism coincided with the same Union and its other allies and pushed the federation even further. This sparked even more ethnic tension because such as the 12.2% of Serbs in Croatia, that opposition to their ethnic identity. In this specific instance, the new Croatian protect the Croatian people from Milosevic from the ethnic Serbs in Croatia. These Serbs established a new separatist organization to be reunified with Serbia in the case of This soon triggered what was nicknamed the attempted to take control of the Serbian majority for support. When Croatian helicopters filled with armed the Yugoslav Air Force decided to intervene back and stay away from Khin or else they The Croatians followed the command and returned As tensions continued to boil over, a period throughout the federation. Yugoslavia was now doomed, and the efforts any other supporters of the union were now In June of that same year, both Slovenia and despite disapproval from other republics. This independence was delayed by three months imminent. Macedonia declared independence in September On January 9, 1992, the Republic of Serbian and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole declared The Serbian Republic within was to follow, capital of Sarajevo, sparking a new stretch All that was now left of the once six-republic-strong Yugoslavia was rapidly dissolving and there In addition to the ethnic disputes and now collapsing and the struggling Yugoslav economy Still, no factor seemed quite as obvious nor This is what led to the utter chaos within cause the official dissolution of Yugoslavia, on February 4, 2003. The federation transformed into the State no more successful or stable than its predecessor, As far as the conflict with Kosovo, its autonomy to be debated throughout the world. Many countries, such as the United States, Serbia and its close allies beg to differ not disappear with the dissolution of Yugoslavia These disputes and wars made the existence or less impossible. Each individual nation had its own, strong place border lines to separate each ethnic all of Yugoslavia. While the economic and political challenges that forces pushing toward the final collapse, of brotherhood that destroyed Yugoslavia from