Jan Smeterlin's Chopin interpretations are, above all, cultured and refined. It is at once evident in listening to the nocturnes that this is a real poet at work, a pianist very much alive to the original inspiration behind the music. Although, having said this, those familiar with details of the score of the nocturnes will note that Smeterlin has a tendency to follow his own musical instincts when it comes to the observance of dynamic markings, frequently reversing what the composer had actually written. There are few artists today who would dare to follow this course. It has to be remembered, however, that in the earlier decades of the century musicians generally were far less slavish when it came to following detailed markings, especially when they felt inhibited by doing so. One might also remark in justification of Smeterlin that in performance Chopin himself often diverged from the printed scores of his music. An endearing feature of this cycle is that the pianist seems to lavish some of his most careful attention on the least famous nocturnes. The B major, from Op. 9, is a case in point. This ten-page work, which dates from 1832, is unusual in many respects, not least that it has an Allegretto tempo marking, which is rather faster than the norm. Here Smeterlin treats all the right-hand arabesque decoration with a wonderfully delicate fluency, and yet, despite bringing an almost exotic romanticism to the music, still manages to convey the undertones of sorrow and restlessness. Indeed, there is little serenity in Smeterlin's interpretations of Chopin. One is reminded of the agitated and constantly hovering movement of the skylark when it is in song. The view is deeply personal, never objective in approach. Whilst other pianists may bring out more of the polyphonic life of the music in highlighting details from the left hand part, Smeterlin, with his very vocal approach, almost always makes the melody the prominent feature, leading the listener through its fluctuating course with an authority that commands attention. Nowhere is he more effective than in the seldom heard (and usually misunderstood) G minor Nocturne from Op. 15. More economical in terms of notation than virtually all the other nocturnes, this work is also uncharacteristic in not returning to the opening melody at the close. Smeterlin manages to communicate what Kullak described as its unostentatious simplicity with a moving conviction, and he entirely avoids allowing the chorale-like section, marked 'religioso', from sounding unduly mawkish or affected. Overall, Smeterlin is not a pianist who likes to linger over a phrase; to do so would diminish the emotional impact of the melodic line. His very intense approach dictates keeping a close rein on the metrical side of the music. As with the question of dynamic markings, he can be wilful too when it comes to the choice of tempo. The middle section of the A flat Nocturne, Op. 32 No. 2 could be offered as an example. This piece, almost more than any other, harks back to the style of the Irishman John Field (1782-1837), the inventor of the piano nocturne, and yet here Smeterlin plays the repeated chords faster than almost any other pianist on recording. Because this episode does not have any specific marking to indicate a change in tempo, Smeterlin takes the law into his own hands and uses his discretion in giving it a very definite rushed character. The doppio movimento section of the great C minor Nocturne, Op. 48 No. l , of 1841 is similarly very agitated in mood, but here this has been specified by the composer. What we have in Smeterlin's Chopin, then, is music that conveys an emotionally charged message, not some vague, atmospheric reverie. In some notes written on the interpretation of Chopin, Smeterlin considered the most important prerequisite to be a beautiful, immediately appealing touch, with great variety of tone colours and singing tone -- in order to produce a cantilena. These readings, one feels, exemplify Smeterlin's priorities to perfection, and his soulfully communicative touch, combined with an immaculate schooling and developed taste, contribute to make them deeply satisfying and memorable. END