Being a human in the 21st century often feels of our species - never have so many of us lived so well, incredibly hard - more than 15 thousand children poverty, even within rich societies there is loads unable to solve our problems while creating In many ways the vibe is that we live disconnected and powerless in the face of of the world fills many of us with doom, It is one of the most pervasive stories of But as Terry Pratchett said, we are the and live in a network of stories that make up we want to add a story that we find This is subjective and not a science Our story begins with the 14 billion years ago time and space began from very first moment the universe grew became many. Energy turned into forces and nature. From these ingredients stars arose, complex stuff only to die violently Out of this more complex stuff, repeating the cycle until most of the simple ever be born had been born. And then, on one dead particles and molecules combined to make govern everything were destined to make life But life, now the most complex thing in existence, corners. For billions of years cells held on, evolving in the process. Until one day they came to plants, animals and fungi. First Earth was now the stage of something grand, full speed. Millions of new species emerged and but every time it came back stronger. Resettling before. Most of these beings are hidden in Until a few million years ago an animal hands. It saw its reflection in a puddle. And it now. You probably had such a moment as a small This is where the human story begins, about Still just another animal among many others. evolving further or disappearing again. But for their brains to grow and they learned more about they tamed fire and turned stones into tools. hard and brutally short but together they stories about the world. For almost 250,000 And then, at some point 200,000 ago they became us. Humanity had arrived. Our ancestors did not waste any time. but out of pure stubbornness they did not better. So they made better tools and learned to started slow. And then suddenly they (or better WE) the first villages and temples snowballed technology, writing, astronomy, medicine, industrialization, the modern world, Earth is truly ours now. We changed it in ways unfathomable a few into fields worked by millions of machines, sand and metal. We split the atom and travelled Except us of course. We humans have cold and unforgiving world, where to survive. We are all still bound to We still tell stories, are hungry desperate to be accepted by our peers. We are imagined and real ones. We are still brutal to We are still territorial and possessive, change. We downplay the damage we cause and Humans are not nice and if we look at our be? In nature we see great beauty but devoid of morals or kindness. We are an instinct world, only now we have coal plants, This would be hard to handle for any animal, so it makes sense that we continue to follow this is only because we have not yet caught up The real tragedy of humanity today is that have not awoken to their potential. We are scarce world. But aside from the physical stopping us from creating a literal paradise true. If we dare to tell ourselves a different Humans throughout history felt like this feels especially true today, but you are a solid chance that humanity will persist If this might be the very start of our history, what can we dream of achieving? Just like our we may be the ancestors of another 250,000 found themselves powerless in a world they could not be more different. It's like we got in millions of hours of work - and where we can The world is still horrible. And it existed. And we can make it so much better. An optimistic person living in the year 1924 in just a century. How much we reduced how much free time we have, what kind of luxuries we take for granted, how few of us die And today we might very well be gearing up for when agriculture changed everything for the information age, to biotechnology enabling to new sustainable ways of If we start thinking in decades and centuries, our problems. We can eliminate poverty, maybe all death itself. We have the potential to restore We may be able to adapt to the information guaranteed and it will be hard and full of worse before they get better. We will run But if we manage to clean up our act dare hope for. You get to do that. You get but also the best it ever was. And you A world with the smallest amount of inspires us to be the best version of ourselves. It's time. Let's reveal the 12,025 Human Era to humanity's greatest journey, that took our With nothing on their feet and only primitive snowy mountains and fight fierce predators Join us in 12,025 and discover a new world every Let this calendar be a celebration of They managed to survive in harsh they are both hunter AND prey. All species and making it possible for Each year we release a new edition of this believe that stories are important and shape a new year zero for our calendar. It era 12,000 years ago. A time when we first laying the foundation for what The calendar also has a special We started out as a small studio with a dream to inspire people all around the creating elaborate videos for free is a really Then, in 2016, everything changed when we a huge success and sold out within a few hours. creation of more high-quality science products. our video quality and research standards, and So get this special ode to humanity and Add a poster or a plushie We've also prepared a few amazing deals for you. Thank you so, so much for to make all of this possible! See you in 12,025!