[Zhu Zhanji] [Chen Wu] (His Majesty is returning to the palace.) (Prince of Han has entered the capital in secret.) Stop! Your Highness. [Yuan Qi] Why are you shouting? Stop shouting. His Highness is resting! Why did you shout? I have something important to report to him. If I must say, you're really dumb. Now, our priority is to hurry on with our journey. Go away! What's the matter? Your Highness, His Majesty But Prince of Han is already in the capital, I'm afraid he's up to no good. Your Highness? Pick up the pace. Your Highness, are you okay? Everyone, push the carriage together! Yes, sir! What's wrong again? Push it! Hurry up! Put some backbone into it! Harder! Come on! Push harder! Hurry up! You guys are idiots! Hurry up! Such idiots! Your Highness, are you awake? Your Highness, it's not that But why aren't you nervous at all? Why should I be nervous? Please pardon me for this. Once His Majesty returns to the palace, I'm afraid the Crown Prince His Highness won't be able to sleep in peace. Father is used to it. It's fine that His Highness But this time, Prince of Han is there as well. I don't know how much trouble he will create. Father will get used to that too. Your Highness! His Highness is hoping that you can return and resolve the situation for him. Are you nervous about it? Of course! I'm nervous for my master Listen to this if you don't believe me. My heart is going to jump out soon. It's beating rapidly. I do have an idea. Your Highness, please tell me. Turn around. Instead of panicking in the carriage, it's more practical for you Your Highness! Your Highness, you mustn't do so! Move aside! Your Highness, please return to the carriage! According to the almanac, we should avoid traveling today. Indeed. We were met with plenty of difficulties on our way home. But I'm a lucky boy since young. Back then, Master Yao said that my life is blessed with three wonders. The lucky star had given me its blessings. Even though I might face difficulties, I'll be able to overcome them. -That's a given. Now, I will borrow some luck from the heavens. If I think I can overcome this, I will surely overcome this. Come on, everyone, let's try again. Come on! Hurry! Come on, let's push this together! Come on! Your Highness, I got it. One, two, three, go! Go! Push harder! Go! [Fine Meal, Divine Work] [Zhao Lancui] [Bai Jinsheng] [Wen Yantao] [Fang Hanying] [Hu Shanwei] [Wang Yaoqing] Su Yuehua. Yin Ziping. Yao Zijin. Three of you, come out. Directresses, these three have their own specialties. It is hard for us to judge their capabilities. Please decide for us and choose one of them as the first place winner. These dishes may look simple, But this is my first time witnessing such a situation. Do the three of you know the Art of Food? People of the world treat That's right. A great painting and a great verse But to me, food is the first necessity of the people. Food is a top priority. An exceptional cook can transform mediocrity into magic. I'm entering the palace in order to learn about the true Art of Food. I want to prepare a feast and become the number one cook in the world. She's so arrogant. Mind your words. I lived in the marketplace since young. I know that a bowl of porridge can save a person's life during famines. Our current emperor is frugal and compassionate. Meal-making is the art of transforming the cheapest ingredients into delicacies that can fill our tummies. Those so-called famous feasts are just a waste of food for one to maintain one's undeserved reputation. What about you? If I don't enter the palace, my father will force me to get married. That is why I must enter the palace. Drive all three of them out of the palace. Directress Wang, three of them are Why have they failed the test? Yin Ziping, are you an expert in famous feasts all around the world? Since you're not an expert, how dare you insult them with your rude remark? And you, Su Yuehua, you're vain and arrogant at such a young age. Do you even understand the Art of Food? How dare you boast about being As for you, Yao Zijin, you're utterly insincere about The palace is a strict place. Drive all of them out! Directress Wang! I beg you! Please give me another chance! Directress Wang, Directress Wang, please forgive me! Directress Wang, Directress Wang, I beg you! Get up. Directress Wang, I beg you! Please forgive me! Directress Wang, I beg you! Directress Wang, all of them are talented. Are you sure you can't pardon them? Drive them out! Don't touch me. I can leave by myself. Let go of me! I won't go! I must stay! Directress Wang! Matron Meng, you're back. Directress Wang, I beg you! Greetings, Matron Meng. His Majesty has returned to the palace. I have just received an imperial decree. Tonight, the palace will to reward the officials and the army. The Court of Imperial Entertainments and They have ordered the Imperial Food Service The candidates who are here today are to stay in order to help. Matron Meng. Everyone, you may start preparing for the feast. Yes. Look, the fish's mouth and gills are still moving. Is it still alive? The carp looks alive even though it's dead. You can see the shocking speed at which she cooks. Your Majesty, This dish is called Burnt Bone. [Burnt Bone] Even though our enemies were as tough as iron, they were no match for your peerless might. It's even harder for them So our enemies were as tough as iron? Do you expect me to grow a set of The Court of Imperial Entertainments How dare a mere kitchen cook to step out of his place and try to please me? His sin is unforgivable. Someone, take him away. Your Majesty, this is [Jing Quan, Chief Minister [Crispy Peach Rice Crust] Your Majesty. Even until now, His Majesty hasn't taken a single bite. Meng Ziyun, you better think of something. You would've been fine if you just stick to serving the food. Since you've done so much in order if you don't do a good job today, you'll be in for a treat! Manager Fang, it still didn't work? If His Majesty doesn't consume any of our dishes, [Wang Kuai, He Ling, Table Maids] The Court of Imperial Entertainments If His Majesty doesn't eat, it shows Since all people here are inept, there's no use in keeping us here. What should we do? You guys should hurry and think of something! Hurry and think of something! Don't worry. Over here, we have to prepare Outside the city, we have to prepare The cooks in the Court of Imperial Now, the army is getting restless. According to His Majesty's oral decree, the Directorate for Palace Delicacies You mustn't do so. The feast Even so, you have to go. Why are you guys still standing there? Hurry and follow me. The dishes for the military It's useless for you guys to stay. Hanying, take them and follow the minister Follow me. Two of you should tag along. Let's go. Directress Hu, what should we do? What should we do about the feast? What should I do? Continue. [The list of imperial dishes] Judging from the list of imperial dishes seems like His Majesty's body is fine. But the journey was a tiring one. I'm sure His Majesty is starving. Why hasn't His Majesty consumed any food? Directress Hu. As this is very sudden, that's why I'm suggesting Please trust me for once. Regarding today's matter, you may stay if you make the correct guess. But if you make the wrong guess... Your Majesty. Your Majesty, the feast is filled I'm afraid Your Majesty (That's why I've selected some (I steamed them after they were seasoned,) and condensed them into this liver extract. Your Majesty, please give it a try. [Steamed Tofu with Chicken Stock] Your Majesty. Your Majesty, there's It's very tender. And it aids in digestion. Your Majesty. [Stewed Meat With Herbs] This smell. Your Majesty, when I was stewing the meat, (I've used cloves, cinnamon,) (nutmeg, and other Chinese herbs to stew it.) So it has a rich smell and it's very tender. It can strengthen the spleen The heavens have blessed us! His Majesty is finally eating! The Chongyang Festival feast [Fine Meal, Divine Work] I let the situation be on purpose But you guys actually flustered You have forgotten all of my teachings! Everything is our fault. Matron Meng, please forgive us. Our preparations weren't enough, Luckily, Matron Meng was wise Everything was arranged in order. We can see that Matron Meng is necessary The rest of us have already come to an agreement. We will write a joint petition to extend your stay, Matron Meng. The palace rules must not be broken. I will leave the palace soon. Rules are rules, favors are favors. Matron Meng, without you, we have no one to lead us. You're the leader we highly revere. Luckily, you were here. The first-place winner for today's test is... Yao Zijin, why did you pay tribute Matron Meng, on the menu during their expedition, I saw that steamed chicken, and roasted pork, which His Majesty Instead, they changed tofu, and so on. According to my bold prediction, I assume His Majesty was experiencing That is why I've changed the dish into something stimulate the appetite, and aid in digestion. Bold, yet meticulous. You deserve to come in first place. You are dismissed. Yes, Directress. Wait. Regarding tonight's feast, were you truly the person who suggested using herbs to stew the meat? That's right. Do you know the crime you had committed? Directress Wang, I gave her permission to do so. You're a fellow directress. I have no authority over you. But she's just a lowly cook. I have enough authority to deal with her. Please do not interrupt. Directress, may I know what crime have I committed? Where did you get the herb formula? My grandmother had no appetite I once hired a famous physician for her, Ignorant. Meals constitute one's life. Dietetic invigoration But different people It should focus on For yang and qi deficiency, For yin and blood deficiency, For fragile bodies and chronic diseases, Although caterpillar fungus, ginseng, and antlers are extremely valuable, not everyone should consume them. You didn't know the cause You didn't possess the medical knowledge How dare you attempt If it's not serious, it might damage the body. If it's serious, it might take one's life. Look at your own actions. How is it any different from People of the world see cooks like us We have a lowly status. We're expendable. As a cook, if you think of yourself in the same way, there's no way for you to As a cook, when you face the ingredients of the world, when you face people you must at least treat them with respect. No matter how skillful you are before you entered the palace, when you enter the Imperial Food Service, all of you need to forget about the past and start from zero, understood? Yes. Expel Yao Zijin from the palace. Directress Wang, please calm down. Just now, Matron Meng had already said I had passed the test. Fine. Send her to the Palace Surveillance. Chief of Palace Surveillance can deal with you. Do all of you wish to be punished? Why were you so mean to her? She harbors impure desires and she has no sense of propriety. Even though you can endure her behavior, I can't. Besides, I assume you must've realized the problem with His Majesty's menu. Let's forget about that for now. Regarding tomorrow's joint petition to keep Matron Meng in her post... You can go if you wish to. I don't do things that fawn upon the rich and powerful. Your words are as sharp as ever. Will you die if you stop being mean? I will. [Heaven] Peace reigns over the land! Peace reigns over the land! Peace reigns over the land! In the past, people who were punished used to cry or resent their plight. But you looked undisturbed even though you were punished Peace reigns over the land! [Foods Office] Yao Zijin. Get out. Zijin. Follow me. Yin Ziping. Thank you, Manager Fang. Wash these vegetables for me. Yes, Manager. Thank you. Go now. Have you heard? The Great Imperial Grandson Really? Of course. Does that mean we have a chance to see him? Of course. Peace reigns over the land! Peace reigns over the land! [Guang'an Gate] Hurry and get up! I was only gone for a moment. Why are you here already? Hurry and get up! Chen Wu, spare her. Yes, Your Highness. The Great Imperial Grandson has spoken. She is to be spared. Ask her to return. Yes. Miss, you're really lucky to see the Great Imperial Grandson in person. Luck doesn't descend from the heavens. Such a pity. What do you mean? Even though Directress Wang her expressions have never changed. She still doesn't respond to her provocations. And she's extra hard-working too. Of course it's a pity. I heard that she's going to be transferred She'll only face poultry and fowls over there. It's useless no matter how intelligent she is. That's the consequence she gets Manager Fang. I've finished my chores. Do you need me to run any errands for you? You can leave them to me. Matron Meng and the two other directresses I need to stay here. Please head to the thatched cottage for me. The thatched cottage? (The Great Imperial Grandson loves nature) (and quietness.) (That's why he built a study (When you head there,) (your only job is to deliver [Xingyun Cottage] (Yes.) Yao. Yao? Your Highness! Your Highness! Your Highness! Your Highness! Your Highness! Lower your head! Your Highness! What are you looking at? Do you think a lowly slave like you has the right to look at His Highness? Eunuch, I'm from the Imperial Food Service. I'm here to deliver His Highness's meal. The Imperial Food Service? The Imperial Food Service... The thatched cottage is where You are not to enter without permission. Kneel here. Yes. Kneel here until you understand the rules. I'm afraid he's just venting his anger out on us. Your Highness! I deserve to die! I deserve to die! It's fine. Get up. Your Highness, it's time for your meal. Drunken jujubes Enjoying the fragrance of ink with a hint of wine, they do complement each other. The Imperial Food Service is getting better. Drunken jujubes Enjoying the fragrance of ink with a hint of wine. Great words. How dare you guys sleep here? Eunuch, did His Highness say anything? You did well today. Send us the same snacks tomorrow night. And you will send them to His Highness personally. Yes. Excuse me. Please take this. Thank you. This isn't on today's menu. Do you wish to prove yourself that badly? The Palace Surveillance subjected me His Highness passed by We should remember Is there anything wrong with me Fine. I'll report this to Matron Meng right now. Have you finished memorizing [Teachings for the Inner Court] Any palace servant needs to study and learn the rules of etiquette. We need to memorize Teachings for the Inner Court You don't recognize many words. It would be hard for you to obtain the right to be a female official by passing the examination. But I can help you. But you need to keep this a secret. Deal. Teach me from the first chapter. When Empress Xiaocigao was still around, she often ordered the Female Scribe to write down the family laws With that as her guide, After that, Empress Xiaochengren She wrote the 20 chapters for Teachings If you wish to learn about you must understand why Empress Xiaochengren If the self is not cultivated, then virtue will not be established. The first six chapters talk about the moral nature, cultivation of the self, behaviors, diligence, hard work, and frugality. Did you memorize everything? From today onward, you need to listen to me if you wish to pass the examination. Understood? Shall we continue? [Frugality] (Why is Yao Zijin sneaking around?) How did you get rid of the stain on the paper? Your Highness, I used the Huishan Spring Water Such audacity! How dare you spout such nonsense? It's true. The spring water wasn't filtered by fine sand yet. It has a strong aftertaste. It has to be aged for one to two months for it to be nourished by the night dew. Only then, it can be used to make tea. Your Highness, when I was I saw that your paper was stained. That's why I gave it a try. Your Highness, please spare me. Take her away and give her 20 strokes. Expel her from the palace. Give her 20 strokes and expel her from the palace. Someone. Your Highness! I'm innocent! Your Highness! I'm innocent! Your Highness! Your Highness, I know my mistake now! Your Highness! Your Highness, so why did you... She's claiming other people's credit for herself. She harbored evil intentions, You're back? Your Highness, I've visited the officials who were implicated and sent to prison during the feast. I've provided them with monetary aid as well so that they won't starve. Your Highness was right. Government officials do receive And those officials are honest and uncorrupted. If I didn't aid them, they wouldn't have enough coals How did you know I verified it myself. The stain didn't disappear because of the Huishan Spring Water. It's the plum rain water The Huishan Spring Water she had gathered was infused with the plum rain and transported all the way here to the capital. It hasn't been aged for two years yet. I'm sure that person has other secrets The maidservant just now kept mentioning She doesn't understand the secret to it at all. But she's daring enough to impersonate her. Doesn't she deserve to be punished? Your Highness, I was ignorant. I was wrong. I will head to the Imperial Food Service now. Wait. Your Highness, what other instructions do you have? Forget it. Let's go. It's time for me to visit my grandfather. Your Highness, your ink is ready. Regarding the painting... Maybe, someone will be able to utilize this. [Xingyun Cottage] So he's insulting me by saying that I'm a sneaky rat. (Miss Yao,) (His Highness has a message for you.) (You can use the ink and the brush.) Your Highness. Your Highness? The moon looks exceptional today. Let's go. Let's enjoy the night view. Your Highness, we could've captured the rat just now. Isn't it interesting to have a friend you have never met and is not noisy? Your Highness, don't you wish to know how this thoughtful person looks like? No. Maybe I'll be disappointed after I see her. It's better for me not to see her. Your Highness, she's thoughtful, excellent at cooking, and exceptional at drawing. Aren't you curious about her at all? Not at all. The memorial that my grandfather Go and inquire about it. Yes, Your Highness. Something seems amiss. The reason wise emperors were cautious to the continuation of the family line. Because the prosperity and decline of a family and the rise and fall of a country are closely related. Alas, inside the Inner Court, the teaching on self-cultivation must... must be... Must be prudent. Don't move. This is too small. Speak in pleasant tones with words of reason. Speak in pleasant tones with words of reason. Slanderous talks and argumentative words are like rapid fires You come out every night to catch it. Think about it. The palace sends special envoys every year Only one out of a thousand is given Since he didn't blame you, don't bother it. Green crickets are the best. This is purplish. And it's small. You can't fool them. You really take it. Let's go back. Let's go. It's so small. And it's a purple cricket. It's too ridiculous to replace the original insect king with it. Test it. Okay. [Xingyun Cottage] You're going to lose. Wait a moment, Your Highness. You can't win even if I give you three more days. Congratulations, Your Highness! Your Highness. What's the matter? This little thing won six rounds in a row. It won by just one bite. Don't look at how plain it is. It defeated His Highness's with only one bite. Someone who can recognize talent is rare. Even if the real insect king is right here, who can recognize it? This game has reached a dead end. I admit defeat. [Guang'an Gate] Hurry up. Walk faster. Everyone, keep up. What happened? Miss Yin. The imperial bodyguards found out someone Didn't they go to arrest the person yesterday? Why do they still investigate it? Such a thing would happen more than once. Many people who were chosen to enter the palace didn't want their daughters to be maidservants. They spent much for someone to replace. Not only does it involve the imperial eunuchs but the Palace Surveillance is also investigating it Is there such a thing? Yes. Miss Yin. Miss Yin. Let's go. Don't you think she's acting weird? Why do you say so? She's so beautiful and good at female virtues and cooking. Another day, I saw her register books for Manager Fang. Her handwriting is good. She seems good at everything. The imperial family selects concubines Many people nurture their daughters carefully. Only those with virtues, speech, can be candidates. She's gentle and well-spoken. She must be from a decent family. Let alone cooking and needlework. Even if she's good in the four arts and music, it's normal. But she knows how to distinguish crickets. Don't you think it's strange? It's none of your business. I'll wait and see tomorrow's exam. Matron Meng. The Crown Princess has ordered that the weather is too dry as it's autumn. The Great Imperial Grandson caught a cold Prepare some light food. Yes. (Miss Yin.) (The imperial bodyguards found out someone Manager Fang. Can I prepare the meal for the Great Imperial Grandson today? Eunuch Yuan. What brings you here? His Highness invited Official Yang and wants to have a hot pot at noon. Prepare it well. But the Crown Princess ordered us to prepare lighter food Cut it. I just delivered what His Highness said. Every single word. Bear it if something happens. And let her deliver the meal from now on. Eunuch Yuan. Zijin. What should we do? Your Highness. The maidservant of the Imperial Food Service is from Southern Zhili, Suzhou Prefecture. I don't want to know about it now. [Virtuous women can control their temperament...] What's the first sentence Why didn't I recall it? You even memorized Chapter Becoming Good. I only remember until Chapter Being Discreet. It seems that I can't be a female scholar this time. Zijin. Thank you. I'll pass this time. I can't recite it even after many times. It's so hard to remember. I can't even recite it. (This annoying man is here again.) Chief Zhang. The maidservants are all here. Thank you. Besides checking the list, Officer You has a few things to ask. It won't bring trouble, right? The imperial bodyguards can even the meritorious officials and royal relatives. Let alone the Imperial Food Service. If you want to ask or interrogate, please help yourself. However, they need to prepare dinner for the concubines. It's not easy for us to explain if it's delayed. Sure. Pardon me. What's your name? Where's your origin? I'm Zhao Jiamin. 17 years old. I'm originally from Yiyang County, The three generations of my family I'm Wang Shuhua. 16 years old. I'm originally from Xiushui County, My grandmother was the maidservant I learned cooking from her since I was young. I'm best at making cakes and pastries. I don't know about anything. I entered the palace according to the rules. Sir. Whether it's true or not, someone will check your registered residence. Next one. I'm Su Yuehua. 18 years old. I'm from Renhe County, Hangzhou Prefecture, Miss Su seems to be not only good Sir. When Su Dongpo was the governor of Hangzhou, there was once torrential rain for days. West Lake flooded. He led the people to build dams and bridges and survived through the flood. My ancestors gave braised pork belly and bean soup to thank him The ground rice grain is as bright as jade. Boiled beans in casseroles It refers to this bowl of bean soup. Later, our Su family went all over the country. There were famous chefs I stayed with my father all year round. I cooked dishes in many notables' residences. If you think I'm an impostor, you can ask someone to interrogate me. Your turn. Yin Ziping. 17 years old. I'm from Southern Zhili, Suzhou Prefecture. My grandfather used to serve After he passed away, our family was in decline. How about you? Officer You. Zijin is the same age and origin as me. She can make all the delicacies in the world. It's no worse than her Su family. What can you find out like this? Please check quickly. We're going to prepare dinner later. Officer You. It's almost in line We still have to go to Let's go. How strange. What do you suspect, sir? The Court of Imperial Entertainments cook -You can look down on others if you're excellent at it. Let's go. In recent years, the Imperial Food Service has been known for being good at to suppress the Court But the famous dishes they're good at are still their ancestral dishes. The list of Miss Yao clearly states that her grandfather was the retired Proctor of the Disciplinary Office Her father was an incompetent proofreader. She learned cooking from her mother since young. She only stayed at home and she's not a cook. How can she cook all the delicacies like the profound Su family? Well... Can you have braised pork belly at the Sichuan restaurant in the capital? Hurry to Suzhou Prefecture immediately. Investigate and report who recommended, taught, and sent her to the palace. Yes. Your Highness. His Highness heard that you're sick and came to visit you specially. Who allowed you to tell him? Your Highness, pardon me. I was... Get up, please. You're still sick. Sit down. Just sit down. Go and bring the tea. Yes. Summon the Imperial Physician. Let the Imperial Physician treat it. Yes. No, Your Highness. There are strict orders If the consort is sick, the Imperial Physician can't be summoned easily. Besides, I just don't eat well. Later, I'll let Jinshu get medicine Or ask the Directress of the Palace Go ask the directress come. Yes. Your Highness, don't you remember? My grandfather is a famous physician in Jining. I was weak when I was young. He treated me all along. I also learned some from him. Strictly speaking, those directresses of the Medicines Office Just trust me. Okay. It's up to you. But if the condition worsens, don't force yourself. Consult the Imperial Physician immediately. Thank you for your concern, Your Highness. It was picked too early. It's sour. Your Highness. I've eaten it. If Your Highness wants to have it, just take the case with you. Yu'an. When you first entered the palace, I named you Yu'an. Do you know what's the meaning? Grandfather went to the battlefield. Grandmother stayed at Beiping. The enemy approached the walls. Grandmother mounted the defensive wall She guarded the city for Grandfather. Grandfather tried his best in that war. The army suffered heavy casualties. Later, he said that when he almost collapsed, he thought of Grandmother's words. You must return no matter what. Later, Grandfather became the Emperor. He owned beauties all over the world. But when he was furious, no consorts dared to persuade him. Grandmother was the only one The so-called married couple is to live together for a lifetime, regardless of life or death, honor or disgrace. Yu'an. I'll give you peace for the rest of your life. I don't know why you're not opening your heart. But I want to ask if you're the one who's willing Your Highness. I... Take care of yourself. I'll get going. Your Highness. I bid Your Highness farewell. Your Highness. You've been coughing all day. This is cough medicine specially prepared for you The Imperial Physician told me it's better to take this medicine while it's hot. And this health porridge. Glutinous rice invigorates the spleen Scallion white dispels wind and disperses cold. And vinegar can remove toxins. The Imperial Physician said Your Highness. Do you want to suppress Your Highness. Ask Physician Sheng to come. Keep this secret. Yes. It's poisoning indeed. Please take this medicine, Your Highness. Your Highness. I'm not sure [Sheng Yin, Imperial Physician] But the poisoner is afraid that others will find out. The dosage is very low. Fortunately, Your Highness is blessed. Toxicity occurs early. If it's not found out, there'll be no cure if the dosage accumulates over time. Your Highness has taken the medicine. You'll be fine. May I ask about something? What's Your Highness's daily meal? Chrysanthemum pot and health porridge. Your Highness. I'm going to the Imperial Food Service to arrest the poisoner. Stop there. Your Highness. It must be the maidservant I'll get her back to let the imperial bodyguards interrogate. She'll confess. Shut up. Physician Sheng. If Grandfather asks about it, just say I had a skin injury I came to you to get the medicine. Don't worry, Your Highness. I understand. Your Highness. The maidservant has bad intentions. You can't let her be. Ask Chen Wu to come over. Yes. Are you still having a headache? Hurry up. Rest for a while. Turn around. I'll rub it for you. Do you feel better? All right. I'll get you some water. Well, you. You're not feeling well. But you still pushed yourself. Does the position of manager mean that much to you? Yes. It means a lot. Ziping. I treated you so well. But you wanted to kill me for the position of manager? Why did you treat me so well? Just blame yourself. You shouldn't be so kind and foolish! There should be a bottom line for kindness. And it shouldn't bring disaster. You should never treat a person who's sincere to you like a fool. You. You... Please. Please don't. Please don't. No. Don't do so. Someone wants to meet you. Look carefully. Is it her? She looks similar. I haven't seen her for ages. She looks pretty alike. You can recognize her even you haven't seen her for long. It seems that the temptation Officer You, what do you think? Sir, she's here. Bring her here. Ms. Yan, look carefully. Is she the girl who ran away from your house? Sir. Her eyebrows and eyes do suggest so. Look more carefully. Sir. The girl came to my house at the age of eight. I taught her to play instruments and sing. But she was born slow-witted and odd. She didn't manage to learn it. I paid to buy someone again. I only taught her to do some chores. Due to my oversight, she ran away. I couldn't find her anywhere. It's not hard to know whether it's her. I'm sorry. Pardon me.