Sweden controll, radar contact. 613 and it's a Boeing 7 3 8 and its a medium aircraft. So what more do we want to know we want to know the distance and it's coming to us, which is Uniform Papa So we got a beech200 I think this going to be rather We'll see. I've haven't got a time for that That was my plane. They are soon to call me, So we got wind 150 degrees Variable, visability Yep. Seems to be true. Light snow fall, overcast 400. Yeah I go with that. Sounds good. Now, just wait for them to call. *Radio call from Beech 200* *Sweden control sending traffic over* *Radio call from Boing 738* So we got a incoming Boeing straight from leeds coming here right now we've got a Santa tourism we got in December 14 planes coming in and there's kind of a santa village two kilometers Well that place is after a road is not in forest just but Yeah so they will arrive like now and then be there for a couple of hours, then get back here and back to England. I don't know. I think the ticket prices Is it 600 Euros (900) So yeah, kind of cool. I guess it's kind of exotic for them I mean, we've got like minus 10 out now It's not really that cold but, *Radio call from boing 738* All right. I just got a call, the fan system is down on the terminal, I going to close there. All right. So this is down. I guess it's a belt that's broken in this that's usually the thing Oh it's totally yeah, This was actually put new a few weeks ago. I don't know. I guess it may had, Yeah. It looks kind of cracked and i guess So this belt here, has Yeah. Well let's try put a new one on there. Right. Not really long enough, So it's actually saturday right now. So, no stores are open, Yeah i think this is gonna work Come on, you have to work. Let's start this The englishmen in on final now so Just going to wait here to guide them in right, light of Let's jump on the stairs Hello So what are you going to do today? Go to the hotel and sleep? Crew; Yes thats the plan, 5 hours and then we're back here. All right. Sounds fun Do you want me to start the GPU? Better ask the technicians about that, Yeah. I was wondering Can we get it here? Or we need to... No you will get it We'll get it here. I will be here when you bord with a list, So there's 1 bus left. Would you like to get a sandwich? Yeah, if you have one So we have tortilla with chicken. We have this one with ham and cheese, It's a hard choice You can take them all Okay. Thank you. And we don't have any bag. No it's good i can handle that. Okay. Thank you. Okay, You got some. Oh, thank you. Old man; That is no good sorry. technician; What is no good? No, that's better Are the windscreen heated? Yeah. Okay. You could see them right here And the snow should start melting. when we where deicing windscreen. Yeah. So where is the start switch? Okay. engine start Here we have the landing gear lever All right. That looked like the handbrake. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. But actually we don't have a handbreak. We just have a What happens if you turn that lever now? We don't have hydraulic, the locks will be released. Yeah. Here we, We have stored the safety pins. Yeah, and we can put them So even if someone really tried it will not be possible glide slope, pull up wind shear wind shear, wind shear terrain I guess the pilot will kind of wake up Exactly. Yeah. There is about this sound will Come on when we will overspeed, actually. Okay. But how fast can fly with this It's around 1000 km/h. I don't know if I could Okay, we can take it for a spin? you think the captain would be angry about it? A bit yeah. He will get over it, yeah do you want me to start the GPU Yes, please. It's warmer in here. So thank you for everything. Thank you, Oh for me? thank you. It's the best one! All right, Thanks. I smashed it a little in my bag, but it's still tasty They are asking, headset or hand? Hands! All right. Yeah. There you go, everyone. That's everyone. All right. I just confirm the numbers, Yeah then we start up with hands it's around -21c Just going to send that Tiny little plane away, and then we're going to I think it's going to be a lot of fog when deicing now All right we're going to do a full deicing Speaking to driver; Headset; Headset; Headset; Headset; Headset; Should i sign it for you sir Okay have a good one! *Radiocall from 738* Alright now we're going to suck up the glycol For that we use the.. we use this bigger vacuum cleaner. I'm not really sure of the yeah this is a really old one so that's pretty much it lowers the suction hose Let's go and check *Radio chatter* Yeah i think it's good now Let's close this.. right. Let's go do something else. So we've got a problem right now. The runway lights aren't working properly. The problem So there's supposed to be a light between every light So we got some electrical failure Let's go check on that so you can see the problem here. So that one is lighting up. That's a light there, That's not lighting up. That is lighting up and that is not lighting up. So every, other light this out, and that's pretty much includes the threshold lights too or stop lights from the backside here. So the thing with that is just that to keep a consistent light pattern. That's why if one CCR is failing, the other one is going to try Even though you've got 50% of lights out. That's the system. How it works So let's go to try fixing this, So these two are the ones going That is working. So this is the one causing the problem. So it's an open circuit. So this is just the de-energize The cable. So as it is right now Operation, So it just switches. So the circus going like that. So while trying to unfreeze that well, I'm going to start with this. So i did trow some salt here, kind of effective you can actually hear it crack. So while waiting for that to clear up on the other side Well, just throw some salt on them It's faster that way. And how this system works they're coming cables like this around 5.5m from the light where it's a transformer just making 5000 volts to 24 volts So the problem is pretty much it can pretty much I think that's the problem right now So the problem when they built this not have maintenance in mind, by doing as they did. I mean, normally you would just put a well underneath the light You can just pretty much lift out yeah, start fault searching like that but.. so this is how the transformer look. So pretty much this is, incoming power, outgoing power and that one is going to the light. So yeah, so what I'm going to do now is so we got a ground wire here, So what I can do is just, I can connect and then from inside measure I mean if I, It can't be shown everything is frozen there. Let's just start measuring. So I'm just going to connect this ground cable to outgoing cable All right. Just to give a explanation, What I'm actually doing here is So from, let's say, the CCR is here the cable is going out like this. Well, okay, So it's pretty much jumping like this. And then it goes back the return cable and onto this. We have a ground cable that goes pretty much with this. So what I've done right now is I think it's somewhere here on the runway connected the ground cable with this outgoing cable. So I'm measuring if there's So this part is actually okay from here all the way here. There is no fault. So what I'm got to do now from here to see if I get and then just keep going to an actual fault. So I'm going to go to this So I gotten like I think it's 4 or 5 out now. So to the ground wire. All right. And now from here to here, that's fine. So the fault is somewhere here. My biggest hope right now because that's going to be a major problem getting out. So what I got to do now, so I got to measure from that to to this So yeah this is how it looks. It's not really much water there Let's measure this. So if I don't hear a beep So that's a good sign. Let's see. I don't want to hear beep Now. All right, that's a good sign. So, yeah, that means that There's nothing wrong there. So it's something in a well on the edge Well, let's go to the other one All right, So now it's actually through here. So there's something between Well, this drawing isn't really correct. So it's 20 lights from that part to here. So I think I found the faulty well here. So i had a real hard time finding this you can see it's pretty close to the surface so I guessing somehow, they took the lid with it and So the sun is pretty much setting right now I think I may have overheating this. Just slightly kind of misshapen now Yeah, well, I see the problem. So this contact has been yanked out This contact need to be replaced. It's really burnt inside here, so I need to replace this. So this is definitely the fault. Where is that Where is the other end? All right, so we've got kind of a snow storm and we've got traffic departing in a few hours. So this needs to be working by then. All right. I had to go and get the genset instead. The bigger one, And just use a fan like this, This is 5KW Since it was kind of hard It would just melt the sides of this so There you can see the contact It's still frozen. Can't reallt get it up yet. That doesn't really look that bad. So I got to try to make some quick fix Cause I need to make this work in an hour, So i can get the contact out yeah. I mean, it's still possible to jack in this contact right now It's not really It's not really that bad All right, So if this light starts right So let's go find that out All right, so this works finally. So I need to change this. So this is just old crimping hose All right, so let's see. Maybe I should just cut it up more. So this is the new contact. So let's see how much i should cut this up so let's push this on. So this is actually a plastic sleeve. It goes up here. So when you put the contact so it got a really tight fit here. Let's just clean this up So I did change out this transformer I'm going to repair the other one later I'm going to keep on using this here. I mean, I could change this contact too. I mean, a similar one, This fits this one without any problems. Let's just use that It's a really snug fit. Let's put this on like so, and then I can just use some vulk tejp. All right. So I think this is good. This is just a little extra protection to to make it So this is supposed to be waterproof now this thing is full with electric grease and it's.. after pulling out shrinking, getting a good grip of the cables so. This is the old cable So let's get that in here so that it's done. Let's replace this well all right, so I ordered a few of this. So this is cast iron. This is supposed to be placed No need to dig this down. This is heavy enough Yeah. The point is to, yeah I think I ordered I'm going to place it on to the runway Just so i can get a easy measurement point for the future if this happens again so I don't have to dig out it's. It's kind of time consuming. I've gotta try to pull this up. I don't know I mean, it's the 2 may and we got that was anything other than straight so this ground, pretty much just consisting of fine sand. So everything here is just fine sand. I don't know. It's not.. not really a point I mean, it's still going to dry up and stuff like that, So yeah i gotta leave it like this for now. Well, I guess that's it for now. So I just gotta keep on continue restoring all the wells that I dug up and leave this for now Everything is working now so that good. Here you go, something sweet? Thank you. Yeah if you have something, Can i have a cupcake? This one? yeah, here you go Yeah,