A home video plays, presenting a picture of A husband and wife in the prime of their lives This is quintessential American suburbia: baking cookies as a family, and the girls Pure joy, and what's more, mom's got a Life is bliss. Except behind this facade of a real-life it will enrage a nation; it will break a billion We give you the most hated man in America. The story started in 2010 on Facebook, when experienced her fair share of tribulations They flirted, they joked, they had their first Two years later, they were at their wedding stood with a microphone gushing about how The newlyweds talked together about their kids that would run around it. Soon that dream came to fruition when they into a splendid 5-bedroom house in Colorado. They had their first child, Bella Marie, and Celeste Cathryn, or CeCe as she was affectionately The phrase "bundles of joy" would come videos that Shannan posted on social media. Life was all about the kids, and Chris and any new parents would. It looked ideal, the whole setup. "He's the best thing that's ever happened from ear to ear. Her life was complete, except, as social media of perfection only too often conceal a more This house was no sanctuary. Chris, an operative at a Petroleum company, Shannan, a hardworking, go-getter, was by At times this created tension in the house, of rage from the weaker part of the pairing. Then there was the debt they were in. Tens of thousands in unpaid bills, student In June 2015, they filed for bankruptcy. They were sued for outstanding debts. They argued more. He became more withdrawn. Her sometimes tempestuous spirit became more speak openly about how he felt. Things were gradually falling apart. Somewhere far away a dark cloud was forming, in video form on social media. Shannan tried to be positive, calling Chris But as you all know, rocks erode and in time As the months passed, Chris slid through her Little did she know, a beast was growing from Shannan could never have known this husband to his shadow self, as Carl Jung might have "I couldn't have asked God for a better time. Fast-forward a few months and Shannan was back seat. Chris wasn't there, but young Bella had She said, "My daddy is a hero, he helps She said this just two months before she, One day Chris got a call and was told they He drove home from work and talked to the He told concerned friends of Shannan's he He fidgeted as he spoke. His usual cool and calm composure had gone. How do people just vanish? Why would a wife, 15 weeks pregnant, not inform whereabouts? Soon the news media was at the house and much to those beautiful, smiling kids and their Chris stood on the porch and told the camera up on the sofa to watch cartoons. What he failed to mention, among many things, He was participating in his own Instagram-worthy his wife. Not long before he stood on that porch and that woman he was leaving Shannan to be with He was with her most of the time for the five in North Carolina. He was with her when he should have been saying He was with her just weeks after Shannan sent blessed to have you." Shannan could tell something was wrong, though. Chris avoided her at every opportunity. He stopped having sex with her. He went for a run or worked out when she tried "I wish my husband wanted to talk with me," She told a friend, "5.5 weeks no sex! He's never been like this." Unbeknownst to her, Chris, like a smitten and card and gave it to his lover. It read, "A kiss, a touch, a smile, a squeeze." Shannan could sense something was wrong. She told him outright that he'd not been He'd not been answering calls. He'd barely been a father. They argued, mostly about his parents, who Chris, as always, was distant, never really But something inside him was cracking. The quiet man had a fire growing inside of Shannan sent messages to her friend: I don't know who he is...He hasn't touched when I'm trying to figure out what's wrong." Unfortunately, she couldn't have been more She had no idea who he really was, what he In August 2018, she left for Arizona on a Before she went, she wrote him a letter: "The last five weeks have been the hardest. I missed everything about you. I missed seeing you naked on top of me, making She said she wanted to make things right between She was determined to fix the cracks that he who was broken, not them. Before she got on the plane she texted him: I will never give up on our marriage. I just want to hold you. I love you." How he felt when he saw those words we don't forming a while back was now a raging maelstrom and selfishness that was fully awakened inside The day he received Shannan's text message Rockies game when in fact he went out with One thing we can say about Chris was that but he was unquestionably stupid. He used his and Shannan's shared credit It was obviously for a meal for two. Shannan guessed this. She called Chris and confronted him about "Really," she said after his lame lie, She knew he was lying. It was hard, but she now knew he was with the phone. And this brings us to August 13, 2018, at A surveillance camera at a neighbor's house She could have had no idea that when she stepped she would never walk out of it again. She would never see her girls in the sunlight She and her daughters vanished. Chris was hardly skilled at hiding the guilt To any onlooker, and certainly to the cops, a hot sunny day. Sure, the authorities searched high and low pretty much telegraphed his guilt even before and love, always with a set of perfectly dry Soon he was sitting in a police interview A cop sat close to him and told him he was After trying to hold his breath while answering clumsy attempt to juke the machine, the cop When she returned, she said in a serious voice, on that test." She knew very well he knew where his kids It was now a matter of breaking him. It wasn't hard. At first, he denied any wrongdoing, but when of the cops, he broke down. Alone with his pop, he whispered that he had He did it, he said, because she killed the and was going to leave her. Let's now go back to Shannan walking through Chris was sleeping. On the table next to the bed was his phone. On it was the last message Shannan sent to It read, "I love you." What's strange is for the first time in We can have no idea what Shannan was thinking, also thinking he was almost certainly cheating Chris on the other hand had already made plans together for the last time. In the morning Shannan confronted him about having an affair. They argued. She told him he'd never see the kids again. Something snapped inside of him. He later told the police "I had no control He was talking about the fact he had his hands the life out of her. Shannan's lifeless body was slumped on the She asked, "What's wrong with mommy." She knew, but she was too young to really He later took Bella to the truck, walked back He took her down to the truck and put her Their mother was lying at their feet wrapped 45 minutes later they were at the petroleum The kids knew something was wrong but could them. At the dusty site, Chris smothered CeCe with Bella looked at the body and after seeing she asked him, "Is the same thing gonna He told her, "Yes." He then covered her with the blanket. Her last words were, "No, daddy." He took her to the tower. He buried his wife in the ground and then they were going to have together. After that, he called a realtor and discussed Shannan was reported missing about 1.40 pm or texts from a friend and failed to show have missed. She was going to discuss little Nico Watts, You know what happened next. In court when Chris was found guilty of murder is perhaps the most inhumane and vicious crime He issued five life sentences without the In a later interview from inside prison, Chris He ordered Mac&amp;Cheese and a glass of milk But it would be an injustice to the deceased let Bella finish that song she sang for her "He reads my books, he ties my shoes, you're My daddy, daddy, I love you." Now you need to watch, "The Burger Chef Or, have a look at, "My Nice Neighbor (Serial