(lively music with audience applause) - What a crowd, what a crowd, you know, beautiful, beautiful, no kidding. You look great out there. (audience cheer and applause) Thank you very much. I'll tell ya, tonight it's nice, we got a grown-up crowd too, you know? Yeah, I did a show last week And these kids carry on today, you can't tell boys from girls. I mean the girls all wear slacks, fellas let their hair grow. I was talking to somebody and I asked him &quot;Look at that teenager, He said &quot;That's a boy, that's my son&quot;. I said &quot;Sure, you knew, He said &quot;I'm not his (audience laughter and light applause) I don't know, I tell ya life isn't easy. After a while you don't The other day I was in my bank, they got signs all over there, &quot;At this bank you have a friend&quot;. Last month I was two payments behind. My friend took away my car. (laughter) I'll tell ya with me nothin' Last week I saw my dentist, And I said to him &quot;Can &quot;to match my other teeth?&quot; He put in a tooth with four cavities. (audience laughter and applause) I'll tell ya last week I broke up with my For the first time I told him, He told me from now on I (laughter) The first time I saw a I was a kid, I said to &quot;all day long I keep thinking I'm ugly&quot;. He made me lay on a couch face down. (audience laughter and applause) I tell ya when I was a No respect at all, you know? The time I was lost on a beach, and a cop would be looking for my parents. I said to the cop &quot;Do you He said &quot;I don't know kid, &quot;there's so many places they could hide&quot;. (laughter and applause) And when I was a kid my old man, he didn't help me either you know. The time I asked my old on a lake he told me to (audience laughter) I'll tell ya, sometimes Today I got two kids and you can't talk to kids today. My boy's birthday last week. Had a little party, brought out the cake, the kid blew out all the candles. I said to him &quot;I hope He said &quot;If it does that's the last time &quot;you'll watch me blow out candles&quot;. (audience laughter) A smart kid I got you know. Like the last time I took I asked him &quot;Wanna go in a crazy house?&quot; He told me to save my (audience laughter and - That's great- (audience applause) - Here we are out with - Yeah, it's good seeing - I always get a kick they treat you right over here. It's one place they treat you right. You know, I leave the club... I closed this week in a club in New York but I'll be back next month- - You just closed it, lock it up- - I locked the whole thing up for a week and I'll come back next and tell my jokes again at Dangerfield's. It's always a kick to come out here. - Yeah- - I love it out here, I like - Do ya? - I'm goin' to Vegas right, I always go over there, wonderful people over there, (laughter) - Great, can you tell - Well, last time I was Oh a lovely girl, Valerie DuBois. - Valerie DuBois- - Lovely girl, Valerie DuBois. In fact she told me to (enthusiastic audience applause) - Wonderful people out in Oh, Vegas is really sweet, the big hotels- - And nightclubs, what big nightclubs they've got there, it's something. It's really so different when I broke in you know, tough places. - You worked in the little joints, right? - Ooh, I worked tough places you know. Places like Rosario's Rocket Room? - Rosario's Rocket Room, tough, tough. - Dominick's Atomic Bar &amp; Grill? Ooh, that was another one, sure. Ooh Dominick, he was tough, - Tough owner- - During the show he used to One night a guy was and he yelled out not to sing! (audience laughter and applause) - That's a real heckler, - I'll tell ya in show business you gotta get the brakes Johnny. - I would guess so, yeah. - I never got the brakes never- - Really? - As a kid I never got - This has been following - I was rough when I was a kid. - When I was a kid the first the pony threw me. (audience laughter) It's another one I should've- You gotta try 'em out Can't bring 'em in- - Take him on a road to You gotta break him in. So you ever the feeling you're I don't know, it's not easy. I got no respect the day I was born. - Really? - No respect, the doctor I found out the nurse, she (lively applause and laughter) - We gotta take a break here, and find out how your health is, 'cause I'm always interested- - I feel like I'm doing - After this message of interest. (audience applause and laughter) - If you just happened (audience applause) My guests are Ms. Doris Day, Carol Wayne and we were just listening to of Mr. Rodney Dangerfield as a youngster. Sometimes I think you're puttin' me on but you did come from a rather- - Oh, I had a very- - Very rough childhood, I Ooh, was I lonely- Even in a park I had no friends. - Really? I remember the see-saw, I had to keep runnin' (audience laughter and applause) - That's lonely, that's sad. - When I grew up I was I couldn't get dates with girls. - Girls didn't- - With girls they go for a guy with looks, everything is looks, looks you know? But there's things more It's underneath what counts, soul, depth. That's what's important, not looks. Now how many times do you and you see a tall handsome man, walking arm in arm with I never saw that, did you ever see that- - Never saw that at all, never saw that. (audience laughter and applause) - Of course- - Probably had no soul, - The looks don't mean nothin' man, I got a niece, an ugly she's happy, she met an ugly guy. - Right? - And today they got two very ugly kids. - Ugly kids, yes- (enthusiastic laughter and applause) - In fact they're all so ugly, in a family album they (audience laughter) I'll tell you what's more important than looks is love, you gotta have love. - Love is important- - I got plenty of love in me Johnny. - That's the main thing- - I love a lot of things. - I love sports, I love (audience laughter and applause) - How many kids do you have? - I got two kids, I love my kids. - Yeah, I know that- - You know I love my kids of course but our boy gives me trouble lately- - Yeah, really? - He's at the age now He sees something he copies it, this kid imitates everything you know. That's why we got rid of the dog. (audience laughter) - I know they're very - It's a peculiar feeling with your son standing - Yes I know what you mean, of course- - No offense, but when I was just kidding around, that's all. - How's your health? Are you in good health? - Oh, very good, very good. There's no love in the house, - No love in the house, oh- - Excuse me, we weren't - We weren't ready to go to health yet- - Sure, there's no love My wife is an easy person to Oh, my wife, are you kidding- I could tell you stories Or else I might have a few drinks sometime I'll start talking. - Really? - When I drink I talk, you know- My wife's a cold person Johnny. - I'm sorry. - Her side of the waterbed is frozen. (audience laughter) Very cold place, I never got My brother got the love, he My room was messed up, I didn't care. My brother's room was in order, combs, brushes, hair's what does it mean, what is it today? He's an attendant in a men's (audience laughter and applause) It's embarrassing how your People say &quot;Hey Rodney, what kind &quot;of work does your brother do?&quot; I don't know what to say, I tell them he's in business for himself- - They say &quot;Yeah, what kind Well, &quot;I'll put it this way, &quot;a lot of people would suffer&quot;. - That's true. (audience laughter) - But the whole thing Do the work you like, the work you like, that's important. Do the work you like, Dr. Vinnie Boombatz- - He told me- - The most important thing is never take your work home with you- - Love to take their work home- - A lot of times they take - Right. - There's a guy in my A traffic cop for 20 years Johnny, can't forget he's a traffic cop. Takes his work home with Makes love to his wife, - That's bad, that's bad- - But as long as you have your health, I suppose that's the main thing. - Health is the most important Health, as you mentioned I mean you gotta cut - I do, yeah- When you get back in shape, I don't play tennis, I can't play tennis. - Why's that? - With tennis you gotta be Hi, we're taking Dad's car. That's deuce. I can't do that stuff. (audience laughter and applause) Now with tennis, it's good, You burn up energy, you The doctors say all kinds You burn up energy, you In fact doctors say when a he burns up energy, he loses 150 calories. I made love to a girl I lost 150 calories, (audience laughter and applause) But you gotta eat the right food- - Right, foods like fish- - Fish is important- - Brain food- very good, you know me, I love sea food. I don't like sea food restaurants. - Oh really? - They got no originality, The fish you eat today slept I'll tell you when I order fish, I'm only interested in how it's prepared. I don't care where the who it slept it, it makes (laughter) In fact I think a fish if it was bad morally, (audience laughter) - An immoral fish is probably better. - Fish is very good... I don't like classy restaurants, those classy seafood restaurants. When you order lobster, why do they have to show it you before? Once I was out with a girl and I liked this girl too Johnny, had a few drinks, I'm trying to impress the girl, it was nice, romantic, it was gorgeous. And then a waiter came (audience laughter) When the lobster came I was trying to impress I sat in a manly position, and then the waiter put a bib on me. (audience laughter and applause) - I don't like classy restaurants. - You don't like classy restaurants. - I like to eat at home- - Home I don't have to worry about a tie and a jacket, nothing. You want something else, no You open the refrigerator I've got a refrigerator at home that I can't forget, it's very deceiving. My refrigerator, it's always We got in our refrigerator like A cup with a broken egg in it. (audience laughter) This broken egg has been just waiting for somebody to scramble it. (audience laughter) We have one bottle of ketchup that we use, then we have another bottle of It's been there now for a year and a half. (audience laughter) And there's one thing a big pot takes up a whole shelf. And the only thing that's in this big pot is a half a boiled potato. - It just sits there- And with my wife, since I met her every time I hear the same thing &quot;Finish it, I'm only gonna throw it out&quot;. Somehow I get the to eat what she's gonna throw out. What's really annoying with my wife, the way she serves the meal. - Serves badly? I mean you put down a steak, (audience laughter)