Welcome back to the Gentleman's we'll discuss things that menswear experts we hope and how you can go about fixing Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song Once you are firmly situated within the realm of about the principles behind it. This extra to develop stylish and cohesive outfits almost personal style. However, it can also be a curse just looks off about other people's outfits. Of is always to be encouraging, not judgmental. their menswear journey and in today's dress down all is commendable. But with that said, there's look past than others. And while it is of your typical menswear expert probably won't these 10 menswear mistakes. The good news is that will take your future outfits from ordinary we have already prepared many other videos common menswear mistakes, how to's for attaining more niche articles of clothing. And while these today's video is going to pinpoint issues that After all, the devil is in the details especially ado then, here are these common menswear mistakes polyester satin ties. Few articles of clothing first job interviews quite like the polysatin and they can seem like a good attention these ties actually grab attention for all they're overly shiny nature can be distracting don't hold a knot very well. Not to mention, shape over time meaning they'll look even worse, [Preston cringes] They're also commonly associated with those who to. However, this generally means that they have thumb even when the wearer wants to remain unseen. made from natural materials. Neckwear like this alternately subtle or attention grabbing depending they're never going to look cheap. They're blend more organically with a wider array of to assemble an essential tie rotation. And if you we think the Fort Belvedere shop is a great great examples out there there as well and you are here. Number two on today's list, tiny shirt to transition out of these super slim and skinny the style trends that were all about making things offenders in this camp are anemic shirt collars. a casual button-down style and they're really to jam one in there pretty tightly. Simply put well and might even have some people asking if you The solution to this problem then is finding Everyone has a subtly different face shape so it's harmonize well with your own facial features. So, you can take a look at this video. Our third item overlooked part of an outfit as they're generally Unless that is you're a firm advocate of Plus quite like slippery socks. While the lackluster chief reason why socks are going to slide down, end socks are going to slide down over time if then is traditionally styled over the calf socks. the Golden Age of Menswear and is easily the most at least when they're properly elasticated conform be less prone to have gravity pull them down over also readily available in the Fort Belvedere shop manufacturers as well. Next up is number four- that it's softer and more casual than most other cool and frumpy can be a thin one. The biggest it can wear down aggressively. This will pilling and generally unappealing. And it won't even high quality cashmere can't outperform poor then? Simply by taking care of your knitwear it will require more upkeep to ensure it stays using specialty washing bags in the machine, during the seasons you're not wearing it, the key should keep you looking more Steve McQueen cool on today's list is creased shirts. Most of us look unsightly if they they haven't been properly this same ill effect is shared by brand new shirts creases intact. We know it's exciting to get a impatient to wash it before wearing it for the want to emulate the cool air of Don Draper keeping this practice in general is a bad habit that will These creases are going to be most prevalent on probably aren't going to resolve themselves as like origami. This should go without saying of regular wrinkles in your shirts aren't going to then is simply by ironing your shirts. Becoming of practice but our video on the subject should Number six - poorly cared for shoes. Nothing Gazette than seeing a neglected pair of shoes. literal foundation for your wardrobe. And even if they aren't properly maintained. And aside from also includes tattered, mismatched or even broken simplest way to fix this issue is by implementing are are often going to be the most expensive part falling apart prematurely. While you certainly can have to be anything incredibly labor intensive and some edge dressing applied judiciously now skimp on your shoelaces either. Not only are they your shoes but they can also contribute greatly to we can't stress enough how important it is to they're often what makes or breaks an outfit. Next that low-rise pants have been the defacto and now. But simply stated if you're going for a more And, in general they're not going to be flattering that you have a long torso and unnaturally they can also create that ugly triangle of shirt aren't positioned correctly. And of course, if around your midsection, this is only going to be find a pair of well-fitting high-waisted trousers. was on Vogue was the early 1990s or so, classic on the rise again lately. And of course, they were of Menswear. This is in part because high-waisted which dividing the body into portions hits upon a well-kept secret for decades now, high-waisted for most men. Once you go high-waisted, you list - too thin fabrics. A suit with a tag saying if it drapes like a garbage bag, it's still not a on having their composition be as lightweight a hand feel that is often associated with super thin fabrics don't drape well on the body more structure for the garment, meaning that it pulling every which way on your frame. This trousers where a heavier fabric will hang down that flatters the leg while meanwhile thinner making it look as though your legs are covered else hungry for baked goods all of a sudden? It's breathability are often correlated but they're not fabrics are going to be lightweight and not all As some examples here, plenty of heavy linens well. And wool is on a spectrum where it's easy to you warm and also crisp thinner frescos that will to wear something that will meet the demands of figure. And a little bit of knowledge about which here. So don't just trust the fabric label or even might not necessarily look good on your body. nine - dull solid colors. We'll put things simply some more color and pattern to your outfits. Many but unfortunately they often seem to be stuck in offender here, being plain black clothing. After black look, you don't also have to make it your a moment, many retailers are also offering dull, aren't going to do you any favors either. Instead, pattern into your wardrobe. After all, one of the play with the nuances of pattern and texture. So textures are still going to give you a unique styles that many retailers offer today. Getting outerwear that doesn't match the rest of your some incredibly refined menswear looks. But experiment gone wrong when adding outerwear that and seasonality in mind. Some examples of this or even puffer vests worn over a suit which Or mismatches of seasonality like pairing a thick the middle of winter or a felt hat in the hot days going to make you look off especially from a to make you cooler or warmer than necessary given is to implement the philosophy of Scorpacciata up your wardrobe into distinct seasons where the to harmonize better with the conditions of your of your wardrobe even more. And of course, for a few transitional pieces too. As an example here, but a trench coat might not be. In conclusion can be simple, it's mastering the nuances that easily to some people than others, these issues some self-reflection and a good knowledge base any other skill, practice. And as we've said Gazette are here to help you at every step along if you've got any style pet peeves that you see comments below. But please keep things light. In wearing today and see if it clears the bar that somewhat casual ensemble that works well for the here in a Minnesota summer. The central element light blue color with a subtle checked pattern also made from a blend of linen, wool and silk. features alternating stripes in white and light for a more summery feel but in the French cuffs, claw cufflinks from Fort Belvedere with blue lapis colored and while they are relatively lightweight, situated on my natural waist using a pair of blue in light blue silk and featuring paisley patterns and socks are also from Fort Belvedere. The off-white and blue and the socks are a relatively and blue shadow stripes. On my head in the outdoor pork pie hat good for summer and underneath, I've of my hair and letting my facial hair grow a from Henry Stevens and to directly harmonize with Roberto Ugalini fragrance collection is Blue of the Fort Belvedere accessories I'm wearing in boutonniere along with a wide variety of other collection by visiting the Fort Belvedere Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song