One of the things that characterized my life was fear. Fear of the dark, fear of snakes. I would actually appeal to the spirits of the dead to protect us. One day my mother got up in the night, boiled the kettle, and intended to come and pour it on me. I became more and more afraid of the dark. Where was God in this whole picture? He wasn't. All these rabbis were actually, they were my God. My name is Orit, Orit Kramer. Orit means &quot;little candle.&quot; I was born in Haifa to very young parents. They both were very young when they arrived from Morocco. The atmosphere we grew up in was a very Every holiday had a very important meaning in our home. My great, great grandfather was called Shlomo Al Shakar. But his brothers Moshe Al Shakar, both of them wrote many Rabbinic rulings He was eventually murdered at the hand of a Muslim. He was buried in Morocco, in Marrakesh. He was called and is still called &quot;Shlomo Bil-Hens.&quot; &quot;Bil-Hens&quot; means &quot;Master of the snake.&quot; He would communicate with snakes. There were great mystical powers involved, and so on. And that's essentially how I was raised. There was my grandmother on my both heaven-fearing, and God-fearing on the one hand, but on the other hand, my grandfather was a public figure, and a cantor in a synagogue. My grandmother from my mother's side dealt with the whole subject of Tarot cards, astrology, divination by cards, and coffee and so on. Little by little I began to open up and My mother had a very good friend, &quot;Listen Gila, you must meet two They are very special. They believe in the Messiah." Now my mother was a young naive One day two women arrive and start talking to us about how important it is that we know Christ. Because if we don't know him we will go to hell. And I thought &quot;Who is this Jesus? But they didn't say who they were. A few weeks later, my mother discovered My mother was a simple woman who believes in God and also believes in other things - the rabbis, These are things that went hand-in-hand with the Judaism. So she did not see the danger in these and started talking about Satan and demons. My mother, because she was exposed from the demonic spiritual world, she really liked it and started to be One day my mother got up at night. and wanted to come and pour it on me. I was asleep in my bed. She told me about it a few years later. She said, &quot;Orit, one day I boiled water and I grabbed it, and I heard a voice telling me, 'Go and pour this boiling water on her face. On Orit's face.' Not your sister's or brother's. Yours.&quot; the next morning she told my father. So my father said, &quot;That's it, we're done. Those women are not coming here anymore.&quot; You could say that from that meeting and snakes, and this whole spiritual world in general. Where was God in this whole picture? He wasn't. God was only in the synagogue, during I remember at home our family read Not the whole Bible. So I had this one teacher, and he was actually the person who instilled in me a love for the holy writings, the Bible, the Torah, the prophets, and writings. However, I continued my practice with astrology. Of course I wouldn't pray to God, which was something distant. I would pray to the rabbis, I would go to graves of the righteous Rabbis, I would lay on their graves. I would actually appeal to the spirits of the dead to protect us. I remember that my favorite man was actually Elijah the prophet. I could visit Eliyahu's Cave almost every week by myself. All these rabbis they were actually they were my God. But I believed in God. And of course it was important for me to be in a synagogue, especially on Yom Kippur and the Ten Days of Repentance. These were the days when I must repent for all One of the things that characterized my life was fear, fear of the dark, fear of snakes. Remember my great, great grandfather, they called him, &quot;Master of the snake.&quot; Somehow I always happened upon snakes and, they could pass by me and not touch me. I knew they wouldn't bite me because That's the lie I grew up with, but it was real. But at the same time there was so much I couldn't even sleep in a dark room. There was no quiet, I had no peace in my heart. I remember, my father was injured had to stay at home and not work. There were four other children at home and she did not have a profession, because really she dedicated her entire So where would she find a job? Remember her good friend from the Jehovah's Witness? They had been in touch all through the years. She said to her, &quot;Gila why are you worried? You know how to cook. You know how to clean. I have a job for you.&quot; What was the job? She said, &quot;There is this place which belongs to Christians.&quot; She replied, &quot;Christians again?&quot; And she said, &quot;No no no, don't worry! I'm no longer with Jehovah's Witness. Today I am in a different place.&quot; This is how mother got to a place So mother says, &quot;Listen Orit, I have been Orit, you must go and visit there." I said, &quot;Mom what is that place? Explain it to me.&quot; So she says to me &quot;They believe in... Yeshua.&quot; I said, &quot;Jesus mother? Jesus? Is this what you want?&quot; &quot;They consider me, they love me, they are kind.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes and they believe in Mary and all those apostles of Jesus?&quot; She says &quot;No, no Orit, not at all, there is And she really pestered me all the time about it. And so one time I decided to visit that place. And the first thing I expected to see was crosses and to see pictures of saints like in most churches, but there weren't any. And I remember that the first thing I encountered was the warm welcome of the people who received me there. So much love, it just enveloped me. And I thought, &quot;OK, these missionaries must And I remember that the first message I heard He was teaching on the Epistle of Jacob. It was the first time I heard a lesson, and the name of 'Yeshua.' The whole lesson was so fun, so pleasant but something inside me resisted and rebelled against that name. And I felt fear taking over me. I said, &quot;Orit, you need to get up and get out of here.&quot; I came home and said, &quot;Mom, tell me, where did you send me?!&quot; So she says, &quot;Isn't that place so great?&quot; I said, &quot;Mom, the people are very nice So she said, &quot;But Orit, they believe in God.&quot; &quot;And it's not 'yeshu' it's 'Yeshua'.&quot; I said, &quot;Mom I don't want anything to do with them. But something happened from that day. One of the women contacted me. She told me, &quot;Orit we are praying for you.&quot; I said, &quot;Thank you very much that you are praying for me.&quot; But I knew they really were praying for me. And one day Yohanan called me at home. He said, &quot;If you want, you are invited to join So one day I found myself going to the community on Shabbat and sitting and listening and hearing everything. I just could not believe that Jesus - I couldn't even say his name. But something drew me to the community. Something drew me mainly to the Lord's Supper. But all I could do was listen to what Jesus did for us, what the Lord Jesus did for us. In short, I continued to go to the My dad would see me going out &quot;Orit, almost every Shabbat I see you go out at a certain time. Where is it you are going?&quot; I said, &quot;Father, I'm going to the Congregation this Congregation in Beit Hesda.&quot; So he says, &quot;What, you became a Christian?&quot; Then a big argument and fight started with my mother. He said to her, &quot;Do you see what you did?&quot; I said, &quot;Father wait, calm down! I don't believe in this man. Just you relax. Dad I'm just going there to listen.&quot; He says, &quot;You're not going just to listen. There is no such thing as you are going just to listen. Every week that you go there, something is happening." So my mother says to me, &quot;Orit, what?! Did you start believing in him?&quot; I said, Mom! you're the one who So she says, &quot;Yes, but I didn't mean for you to come to faith.&quot; I said, &quot;Mom, don't worry, I don't believe in it. I go every week because I enjoy it very much. There you learn about God, the Torah, the prophets, the scriptures. I didn't mention about the New Testament. So she says, &quot;No Orit do me a favor, I don't Stop going there.&quot; Now that they are telling me not to go, not to believe, on the contrary, I want to go even more. And I remember one day I came &quot;Orit maybe you should try to pray the prayer of repentance.&quot; I said, &quot;Listen you want to see that I believe, but I still don't believe. You talk to me about the Messiah of the New Testament. Come and teach me about the Messiah from the Old Testament.&quot; One of the elders of the community took So I began to know this man named Yeshua. And I realized that I can't call him &quot;yeshu&quot; anymore because yeshu is a curse word. Yom Kippur came. I remember sitting in the synagogue on Yom Kippur, and I looked around and I felt such emptiness and such sadness. And I heard the men talking about how much And suddenly I looked and said, &quot;Oh God. I see how much hypocrisy and lack of faith in God there is here. God is not in this place. What am I doing here, Father?&quot; I sat and said, &quot;Lord Jesus, you say that you are I had read a little at that point from the New Testament. But I read a lot in the Old Testament. &quot;And I see that you really fulfill the prophecies.&quot; I said, &quot;I don't know you, but I choose to follow you. I know the price will be heavy, I am ready to put my life in your hands, but teach me.&quot; That's it. I sat, I got up, dad says to me, &quot;Where are you going?&quot; He says, &quot;The closing prayer is very soon, I said, &quot;Dad I'm going home. I don't feel well.&quot; I've been fasting for the forgiveness I remember that as a little girl I said to mom, &quot;How do you know God forgives our sins?&quot; She tells me, &quot;We spilled the blood We gave money as a donation.&quot; But that didn't sound right to me. I never questioned that. Never asked questions. In short, that same day I went home and made myself a cup of tea. I sat down and started drinking the tea. I say to myself, &quot;Wow, I must have been born again! I have no feelings of guilt. I'm not mad at myself. I don't think that God will punish me but the fast is not over yet, but I feel that I am okay.&quot; It was then that I actually accepted the Lord into my life. I knew it absolutely. My parents began to see that there was a change in me. so one day my dad comes to me and says ''aha, i have heard about you!'' then he says to me ''and why didn't you tell me?'' I said ''but you remember what you said to me? that you will kick me out of the house and my relationship with you was important to me so he says ''you're right you're right, but still, you should have came and told me'' so I said ''father I made a mistake that I didn't come and tell you'' ''but, its more important to me what the Lord thinks than our relationship'' ''and I should have came and told you dad'' ''and not that you will hear it from someone else and be offended'' ''so im sorry, yes''. so he hugged me and our relationship was so good he really respected the faith and even though he didnt understand it, he respected us. Twelve years ago my father experienced &quot;Orit, Dad had heart failure and he died.&quot; &quot;No no! No God! I'm pleading, don't take him! He has to come to faith.&quot; Now I want to give you some background. A few years before my father passed away he said to me, &quot;Orit, I would like a new Bible (with the New Testament).&quot; So I bought him a new Bible (with the New Testament). I told him, &quot;Dad I want you to use this Bible. Read it. So he tells me, &quot;Yes yes. I will read it. I will use it.&quot; But I remembered that two weeks &quot;Look Orit, I'm ready to believe in Yeshua the Messiah only if he appears to me. And I told him, &quot;Dad, be careful what you are asking for.&quot; He says, "There's nothing else to do, I want a sign." Two weeks later he went into heart failure. and I remember crying out to God and saying, &quot;No God! Don't take him! It's not possible. And mother told me, &quot;Orit, he has already been dead for an hour. They tried to revive him. I said, &quot;God, please bring him back. Bring him We got to the hospital and the doctors came out and said, &quot;We managed to revive him, but he's in intensive care. We don't know what's going on with the brain, but he's alive. Then I remember that Marvin (her husband) &quot;Chaim, can you hear me? Orit is here next to me. We talked about the Messiah, Chaim. And if you can hear me shake my hand or move your hand. Show me that you hear that I am And at that same moment, my father opened his eyes and moved his hand and moved his leg and looked. As far as the doctors were concerned he was a vegetable. For two and a half years dad couldn't do anything. He was imprisoned inside himself. But he had open eyes. He heard, he listened, he responded. And I said to him, &quot;Dad, do you So he opened his eyes and tears began to flow. This is a man who was pronounced brain dead. Tears fell from his eyes and I One day, the day dad went to be with the Lord that day I knew it was the last day. I looked at him. I told him, &quot;Dad, you're tired, aren't you?&quot; So he blinked like, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;Dad you know you can go home. The others didn't let you go, but I let you go. Dad, go. Go to the Lord. We will meet one day.&quot; And he closed his eyes and opened I went home and that night &quot;Orit, I don't know how to tell you.&quot; I said to her, &quot;Dad is asleep?&quot; She didn't understand what I meant. So I said, &quot;My father is gone. It's alright.&quot; She said, &quot;Yes, he passed.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, I know. The Lord came and took him.&quot; I got to the hospital and the nurse who &quot;Orit, do you want to see your dad?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I entered and saw dad with a perfectly He said, &quot;I just wanted to tell you that And I wanted to tell you that it was as if angels All I could do was to be with your father, 'Hear O Israel, O Lord our God,' So I told him, &quot;Yes, I know that the What happened with my father all this time was for my family, so that they would believe. But how important it is for me to see my people come to faith. That they will seek Him and find Him. Amen.