hey guys. welcome to pastry living. this is aya. and I'm also sharing many fun ways to coat okay, so first as a preparation, melt butter. you can melt it with a water bath or the microwave. and I also like to sift flours ahead. cake flour, cocoa powder, and baking powder. we're going to add a good amount of cocoa and now in a bowl, add sugar and salt. and all the wet ingredients except melted butter, which are eggs, milk, honey, and oil. there's no need to whip them; just mix until and add the sifted flour. mix well. it looks lumpy at the beginning but continue add the melted butter. ensure that the it from getting hardened while mixing. so as you can see, making madeleines is so easy. you just have to continue mixing. the batter at the very end, switch to a spatula and clean the bottom and the cover the surface with a plastic wrap and chill it in the fridge for more than 3 hours. you can also make this ahead like a day now let's prepare the madeleine pan while we are waiting for that. apply soft butter all over the surface. and I usually coat all-purpose flour on top of it so that the surface gets lightly crispy. but for chocolate madeleines, the surface gets a little bit too pale with just all-purpose flour which is not a problem but it just doesn't look the best. so, to solve the problem, combine all-purpose flour and cocoa powder together about a 3 to 1 ratio. and you can still enjoy the lightly crispy texture on the surface. shake the pan and coat the flour all over the surface. and flip and toss to remove the excess flour. chill the pan in the fridge until right before use. the batter gets firmer after it's chilled but try not to mix it vigorously here because now the glutens are nicely rested and the cold madeleine batter and the high oven temperature creates classic iconic bumps on the surface, which looks so cute. and pipe up to about 90% of the capacity. and this is going to be so much easier when using a piping bag. try not to take too much time here so that bake in the preheated oven just until the top stops bubbling, and it bounces back gently when you touch it. as soon as they are baked, take them out of the pan so that the bottom surface stays lightly crispy. so try not to face the bumps down to prevent the freshly baked madeleines are so delicious. it tastes amazing as is, but if you want to go a little bit fancier and make decadent chocolate madeleines, coat chocolate on the surface. so I'm going to show you a couple ways to do it. first, melt dark chocolate and dice about 1/4 to 1/3 of the add it to the melted chocolate. mix. and continue adding it until it cools down enough. and try not to mix too fast and this is my favorite way to temper chocolate. i think it's the easiest way. but if you have and pour about 10 g for wiggle a madeleine a little bit like this and try to do this quickly before the chocolate starts getting hardened. i highly recommend using a good quality nonstick i tried this without tempering chocolate before, and that but I think this method is very easy. give it a try if you haven't yet. and chill them in the fridge, ideally for more than 1 hour for the surface to set completely. meanwhile, I'm going to share other ways to coat chocolate. and pipe the remaining chocolate for these two methods, you don't necessarily have to temper chocolate. you can just use melted chocolate chips or baking chips. but use tempered chocolate if and attached dark chocolate, white chocolate, such as pistachio, freeze-dried fruits, gold leaf, or sprinkles. the surface already started getting dried for but you don't really have to if they are still wet. madeleines are so easy to make. it's something you can bake really quickly. you do not have to coat chocolate if you want to make it easy. enjoy them with your favorite drink or share them with your family and friends. it'll be a perfect dessert for all chocolate lovers. nothing is comparable with freshly baked if you can, enjoy them while they but if you can't, uh when you want to store them, wrap the surface you can store them at room temperature or in the fridge. but I want you to remindful that madeleines get firmer when it's chilled due to the butter so you want to enjoy the best texture, leave them at room temperature for some time. as you saw, madeleines are very easy to make. but probably the most common issue that people get is either they are dried, or the bumps on top are too small. so if the madeleines are dry, so try baking it for a shorter time next and if the bumps are too small, most of the time that means the temperature was too low. even if you bake at the same temperature, it was probably too low for your oven because each oven acts really differently. and this is especially the case when it took a longer time for you to cook them. also chilling the madeleine batter before baking is so important to create the bumps. I recommend chilling it for more than 3 hours. if you like madeleines, don't forget to check out my they are also so delicious. you can make an assorted cookie box with these 3. that would be a great gift. that's it for today. thank you so much for watching. bye-bye. okay, so a little tiny personal update. i have been baking my own madeleine and he's going to pop out in about a month. Rei is for this channel, I just hope to continue sharing videos really what I love to do. that was it. that was the my channel and watching my videos. I really