- Today I'm in London that serves a PS265 shot of espresso. That's $335 US dollars in modern currency and it will be, in my 20 years in coffee, the most expensive cup of And you might have some why is it so expensive and So what I figured we'd do is tour of London on the while I answer those questions. And the first one is, why would I do this? Well, turns out when coffee of coffee on the menu, and people send me those articles. You know, coffee's usually cheap. How can it be so expensive? Is it ridiculous? Is it absurd? Well, I've thought about it and I think there are three reasons why a cup of coffee might be very expensive. One, scarcity. There's only a very tiny quantity of this particular coffee produced. Therefore, getting to taste I guess the laws of supply that should make it very expensive. A good example from the past Kopi Luwak, its supply got very expensive, but Kopi Luwak is kind And we did make a video about that. Two is competition. This is typically where has driven the price up, usually through something like an auction. The Cup of Excellence is where the coffee roasters, they really want the and they've bid the price up and up and up until it's become very expensive. A great example from the past would be Hacienda La Esmeralda, when it first brought Gesha to market. Or three, preparation. The coffee might have or brewed in a way or complicated that has So once you go down the coffee rabbit hole and you realize that the more you're spending the better your coffee brews are tasting, well then the more you one of these really just to know maybe how good coffee can be. And so what I wanna do is one about each of those reasons and kind of give you an idea of what you're gonna get for your money. So we've come to the relative so I can tell you a little that I'm gonna be drinking It's expensive for that first reason. Scarcity. This is a coffee grown on the island of Okinawa in Japan. And to be honest, I didn't Now it's from the Nakayama It's a Typica variety and it's a natural process, The natural process means that after the cherries were picked, and then sort of hulled and broken open to get to the seeds inside that are dry. This is different to the where you pick the cherry, immediately squeeze the seeds out, ferment it a little to break down any flesh stuck to it, and then wash it clean before drying it. Has an impact on taste. I suspect we'll talk about Now having looked at seems to be very small. It seems to have maybe A coffee tree may produce, let's say three to maybe 400 grams of raw coffee a year. And so their total production And that's of all qualities. The best stuff will be a And that means that in terms it may be a tiny quantity, it might be 20 or even 50 kilos, but maybe even less. Notably, if I went to all of the coffee that they sell is kind of a blend of their coffee. You can't buy their coffee on its own. They've blended it with other which I thought was notable and spoke to how Now it's gonna be expensive in part because it's a tiny supply, but also because of In Japan, people tend to be higher earners and that will have an impact This tends to happen in a A good example would be say California, where they've recently and coffees grown in California have much higher costs They might be say $300 to $400 a kilo compared to say $50 to $100 a kilo for kind of typical specialty coffee. Now it's notable that it's 'cause it kind of classifies These are a kind of class of coffees. Generally speaking, good because altitude means lots and then cool temperatures at evening. So you're feeding the plant during the day and then slowing maturation at night. Lower altitudes tend to The exception are islands because the cool breeze comes in at night and they have cooler nights. And so you get coffee from or St. Helena. And again, altitude doesn't I looked at the Nakayama one and 200 meters above sea level, which is really relatively low. All of this talk of scarcity gets us to the complicated What should you charge for something just because it's hard to access? And some would argue, &quot;Well, whatever someone will pay for it, that's the right price.&quot; Now, if you have a lot of money, I guess one of the things you can access are just things that other people can't because they're so expensive. You're gonna buy experiences, you're gonna buy wine or caviar or food or in this case, coffee. If you're gonna access you're gonna come to this very a place where I can barely afford to even look at the things in the windows, of wild ridiculous cars, and just all around strangeness. Okay, so the coffee shop we're coming to is a place called Shot here in Mayfair. They're trying to be London's and they have a menu of special coffees. Typically it's kind of island coffees. There's Jamaica Blue Mountain there's Helena, of course And at the bottom there's which is what I'm gonna go and order. Now we did contact them and And they said no, which is totally okay. I can totally understand and not wanting some loudmouth YouTuber with a camera coming in and So I'm gonna go inside, order some coffee, bring it back outside (traffic rumbling) Do you know, I don't know It's, so the first thing the barista has an impossible job because the idea that something PS265 from a taste perspective alone, is kind of impossible. What I'm buying, what I'm It's kinda wider than that. Lemme talk about how it tastes though. Can smell that it's a natural process. There's some kind of fermented, dried fruit smells on the nose. The cup is very nice. Give a little stir. It's pulled a little bit more (traffic rumbling) Yeah, okay. Lots of dried fruit. It reminds me of a natural process, first and foremost, rather than kind of a coffee from a place. It's kind of a kind of Let me taste. Way, way more acidity In a good way. This is relatively low grown coffee and so I expected less acidity. It's juicy, it's bright. I don't know if it tastes to other coffees I've tasted where it has like a Whereas, you know, with you can taste them and know It's a well brewed shot, barista did well, really nice barista in there. Shout out for being very hospitable and accommodating to A little dry in the finish, nice texture. As it cools, there's a touch Like you can sort of detect a little bit of that low altitude, but I don't think it has a sort of origin characteristics or wild or distinct to it. It tastes like ripe coffee Processed well, roasted well, but its taste and its price I don't think are particularly connected. Is it PS265 tasty? Can anything be PS265 tasty? I've bought getting to say that I've drunk a coffee from Japan and I've bought getting to say that I spent PS265 on an espresso. Does that make it worth it? That really depends on who you are and what that money is worth to you. If you wanna buy a story to If you're trying to buy coffee experience, then I think generally Something like competition coffees, where people have like competed for them because of their taste. I think they may be better value, but this is a PS265 shot of espresso. And now I wanna hear from cup of coffee you've And more to the point, was it worth it? People ask me all the time what the most expensive cup I've had was. Now I have a very good answer, but I want to hear your thoughts And if you do see other for the other reasons that either you know, these kind of that the competitions have driven them up, the auctions, or interesting Gimme a link down in the comments below. And for now, I say thank and I hope you have a great day.