[Cherkaski Tyshky village, Kharkiv region] Mariana Pietsukh, hromadske journalist: We are heading north from Kharkiv closer to the Russian border, to territories that were liberated just the day before yesterday. We see that the Russians were in a hurry, they didn't take the washing machine, a vacuum cleaner is lying next. But it's not possible to enter the territory of private properties yet because it hasn't been well inspected, and you can still find the remnants of enemy's equipment here. Road sign: Petrivka Road sign: End of Ruski Tyshky village [Borshchova] [Borshchova village, Kharkiv region] - Is this your house? Viacheslav Turetskyi, Borshchova village dweller: I've been building it for eight years. We had lived for 21 years. All the time during the military actions I was in this house, because this house has a very powerful basement. I designed these houses, I know their construction, and I understand where you can sit all this time. - Has it already been examined? Is there anything suspicious? - And that is, you have nothing explosive here? - Why didn't you try to leave in the beginning? - In the beginning, the war immediately caught me. That is, I was here, and when I came out in the morning, the column [of hardware] was already going along the road. - On February 24? - Then there was no chance to leave? - To Ukraine... There were documents and other staff here, that is, while I was hiding it all qualitatively, well, burying everything, then on the 25th I phoned my friends in Kharkiv, they said that there was already a Russian roadblock in Tyshky, and it was impossible to go there from here. That is, only through Russia. The day before the war I bought gasoline and groceries, but not enough, that is, not a quite lot. - But you was preparing just in case ? - Yeah. - Well, no. Not the basement, but was getting ready just for... That wasn't on the agenda to prepare the basement. I started to prepare the basement when they [Russians] came in on the 24th, then I had realized that the documents need to be buried, and the basement to be prepared. The basement and the basement be prepared. - And where is your basement? - Did you have an alternator before? - So that just saved you that you had it before. - Was it a courtyard with a fountain? - There was a fairy tale here. - A fairy tale, right? And there was a fountain? - There were streams and more than one fountain. - Who did you live here with? - And your wife didn't argue about you staying here? That you'd go to her, she maybe was worried. - She was worried, but she wrote that she really believes in me. And she said that she understood that I built it all, I am an engineer myself, and she understood that I would make the right decision under any circumstances in order to... - But do you have a phone connection with her? - No. I mean, that connection was very dangerous. - How did she find out how you were doing? - Very rarely I went out of here to make a call, because one day I called from here, and a missile flew-in to the place from where I was calling. I mean, I literally called and 40 minutes later a missile flew-in to the place. - How do they [Russians] detect that? And after that I have only called the house 2 times when that was possible during this entire period. - Let's go in. - The light is needed there, right? - Why did you build it so deep? - I built a capital cellar for home conservations, for everything. - Do you spend most of your time in the basement or outside? - Now I spend more time outside, clearing it out. And when there were military actions, I mostly lived only in the basement. - Do you pray here? - Absolutely. - Did you use to pray before the war? - I didn't pray much. - So... - Only during the war I began to pray. - Where did you get the icon? - I had them. My son-in-law is very believer, my daughter is a believer, my wife is a believer, but I was less of a believer, and when it all started, I became very much a believer. - And what are you doing here, well, coming out of the basement, what are you doing here near the house? - I have cats. While all this whole period lasted, a missile explodes - then all the glasses in the windows blow out, all the plastic coverage flows out, I have to put all that coverage back on. Then I had to cook, that's... - And where you cook to eat, show us. - It's in another place. And here I cooked during the military actions on dry alcohol. - And what do you plan to do further with this house? - If there will be humanitarian aid, I will partially reconstruct it, if not then I have no possibility to reconstruct it. - Well, for now, compensation, you know, reparations can be for years, that is, where you will continue to live, winter is coming. - My whole family lives, people have took them, near Valky [city in Kharkiv region]. - And what things do you plan to take with you to your relatives near Valky or will you leave everything as it is? - We will store all the things in the basement, and then we will decide with my wife. She wants to take the kitchen away, the kitchen is basically intact. - And where do you think to put it? - We will think about that. Now we're in the state, how can I say, they just stopped shooting. And this state... - You haven't thought about it yet. - Yes, I haven't. I just didn't think about it, because I know that before the winter I have to take the kitchen off and put it in the basement under the guarding of a security agency. - Is this a terrace? - Yeah, the terrace. And what were you use to do here? Eating in the summer, huh? - No, I thought I'd have to spend winter here if there wasn't successful counter-offensive. And I was starting to prepare firewood for the winter. I mean I was even supposed to live here, but not to go to Russia in any case. - And how do you get the news? By the way, did you hear what Zelenskyi said the other day when electricity was completely lost in Kharkiv and other regions due to the shelling of the CHP, that we are ready to live without electricity, without gas, but without them [Russians]. Are you ready to live without electricity, without gas, but without Russia? - Yes, I was completely ready. Well, I prepared everything, the Russians offered me, they said that if we go to Russia, we'll get an apartment and a very good allowance. They did not say which allowance, but said that it was higher than their salary. But that's out of the question. I was absolutely sure, even in May I expected it. The front line passed along the Murom river then. And I was just waiting for this moment, that in a week or two, in a month, the Ukrainian troops would come. - I mean from the roof of this house, I was fixing the roof, I just saw, not the troops but just the territory. And I thought, how can I give it all up, I waited every day, every week. I just knew I had to wait for that moment, and I did. To be honest I had such a moment when I had got packed all the stuff, took my backpack to ask them, because to go out by myself, to go by bicycle, because my car was taken away by them, taken away back in May. - What kind of car did you have? - I had a sports convertible, and they took it back in May. And shortly saying, it was still possible to leave, I wanted to, because there was a lot of active battles. But all the same I was stopped by the fact that I had to be patient, just be patient a little bit and there would be liberation. - When did you realize that liberation from the Russians had begun? When did it happen, on what day? - It happened on the evening of September 11. - How did you realize that something different than every day was going on? That something was going to happen. - There was very a really huge shooting. I mean, there were explosions of ammunition depots on all sides. It was the shooting and the depots were hit on all sides. - It was unclear who was shooting, what was going on? - The Ukrainians were shooting, and you realized that liberation had begun? - Definitely. And I had the radio working all the time, it gets the signal here. I mean, I knew it was about to happen. They kept offering me to evacuate, even the last two or three days. - To Russia? - Only to Russia. With the allowance and everything. But it's clear that I am categorical about it. But they didn't do any violence. I mean, they said they could get us out of here. For three days there were very powerful battles. And very clear work of Ukrainian artillery. Very clear. I understood that being 25 meters away from there in the basement, I was worried, but not too much, because they [Ukrainians] were hitting quite clearly. That is, I couldn't go out for safety reasons before, even to walk to the road, although it's not far. And when I went out the day before yesterday, I realized that I should had cut down the birch trees around so the Ukrainian artillery to hit even more accurate. And so maybe there were misses somewhere, and those misses mishit shortly speaking. I already had a strong feeling about this. [The former headquarters and ammunition depot of the Russian army in the village of Borshchova] [The former headquarters and ammunition depot of the Russian army in the village of Borshchova] I just prayed, I thought even rather they collapse the house to smoke that hornet's nest out of there. And I just assumed that a day or two or three and it would all be over. I mean, these three days I didn't eat anything, I just expected that... - You greeted with tears? - The inhabitants of your village, they have mostly left, would you tell them they can go back or do you feel that it's still dangerous here, and until the war is over do not go back? - Right away after the end of the battles, I walked around this mini-settlement and looked at the condition of all the houses of the people I knew who lived here. Not a single house has been left. - Does the village need to be completely rebuilt? - Completely. There's so much destruction, I've seen some people had been building this for years, and I seen from the window how it burned instantly. And I went around all that then, called some people, especially those with whom I was in contact, and simply reported, <<Stepan Anatoliyovych, your house burned down completely>> Although almost all the villages of Kharkiv region have been liberated, we are literally now hearing how the Russian artillery is working on the other side of the border. Therefore, in principle, it is too early to say that it's already possible to return to Kharkiv region and live peacefully while the big war lasts. Road sign: Cherkaski Tyshky Thanks to our sponsors journalist: Mariana Pietsukh camera and edit: Mykhailo Mieshcherinov producer: Mariia Popova editor: Oleksandr Nazarov