[MUSIC PLAYING] Amplitude. When you're looking at a two amplitude is the height For audio signals, this equates A quiet sound, like a whisper, while a sound with a lot of energy like A good metaphor for We measure the height a certain number of feet above sea of the oceans to be below sea level. Just like sound, mountains can be For sound, it might be a finger And in regards to mountains, running into each other. Depending on how much energy the resulting sound will have which is equivalent to its amplitude. In a way, you can visualize a Imagine how loud that The word envelope is the one that and can be challenging to visualize. Think of the word It's what you put a letter inside It's a thing that is. But since music is a thing it's more useful to think of to envelop. The definition of envelop is to which is exactly what an envelope does. A paper envelope encloses a letter. And very much in the same way, the take an audio signal and shaping and carving the sound from Similar to how a filter an envelope shapes the The most common envelope which shapes amplitude over time. But there are many other possibilities. Another common use of an around a sound's brightness. Frequency is a word that Frequency is how often something To put it in context of your life, think Three times? Your meal frequency is Or think about how frequently It typically varies between depending on whether you're resting In the context of music refers to how often a and is measured in an One Hertz means once per second. If something is vibrating at 20 Hertz, and produces a very low pitch. If an oscillator is vibrating at and produces a much higher pitch. So frequency not only relates but in our world, it also A good metaphor for As you put your foot on the And as that frequency of so does the speed of the car. As this is happening, you can literally Regular car engines are usually RPM, which results in an exhaust Hertz, which is in the lowest Formula One cars rotate considerably around 1,200 Hertz, which To reiterate, frequency is a measure which is directly related Both of these ideas are important the frequency parameter on any device. Oscillators are the part of your Think of them as throats. They produce electronic signal which back and forth just like vocal chords. Oscillators use specific voices to sing square, saw, and triangle-- each with their own distinctive timbre. Some synthesizers only But others have several at the same time, each with creating layered and Filters are everywhere. They're in our water pitchers, and our social media We encounter them so often that Speaking of background noise, to get rid of some of that. Let's correlate an audio We pour a pot of pasta separates the liquid from the solids. In our case, we're sending which is only allowing certain separating the ones we want But as you might expect, elaborate than kitchen strainers. Not only can we completely separate but we can also choose to or increase them, allowing us to sculpt Oscillators tend to So often, you'll see a which is allowing the low frequencies and reach your ears of the higher more harsh frequencies. Another word for timbre is tone. Timbre is the distinguishing that differentiates one sound that they might be playing the same When we're describing use words like sharp, round, reedy, Let's correlate timbre to flavor. Think of apples. They're a type of fruit that has a But inside the category of apples, Some apples are very sweet, Some are red, while others are green. They're all still apples, but each Red Delicious is different from is different from Honeycrisp. Even when describing one type, to apple. Same thing goes for sound sources. One category of timbre we Inside of the string family, we and double basses. They have similar timbres and tones in When comparing two might have a very bright sound, while Even when playing one violin, by bowing a different way. LFO stands for low frequency oscillator It's an oscillator which emits like any oscillator, but its signal So low, in fact, that it's often You might ask yourself, why would emits a sound we can't hear? Well, the answer goes back The waveform an oscillator creates back and forth, like a pendulum. And we can use that movement to An LFO swings back and that is not coloring the sound. Instead, we use that oscillation Many common effects If we assign the LFO's pendulum swing a repeating change in amplitude. If we assign it to a frequency a repeating change of pitch patterns. When we assign it to the cutoff we get a cyclic variation we get those cool wobble bass lines. Modulation is change. It's a word you've probably to a key change that occurs mid-song. Think of Beyonce's four modulations towards the end the harmonic root a half step up, cliche. In this case, modulation is referring In all the devices you can relate to pretty much any parameters To tie two concepts together now, the is pitch, which is assigned to as key tracking. In the same way that Love On as we move up the keyboard modulating the pitch of an An LFO uses its oscillator as a control To go back to our previous examples, we modulate volume at a To create vibrato, we modulate pitch. And to create a wobble bass, we