- [Narrator] A portion of this video is sponsored by Salesforce. Watch 'til the end to learn more. (upbeat rock music) (record scratch) - Uh, yeah I would! And we did. Not the whole PC, mind you, just the case, but believe it or not, there for cases that you can download Tons for tiny PCs and Raspberry Pis and even some full size After a bit of browsing, we by Impericus. The OPF-1. We were like dang! But it gets even better. We checked out their and this, this is the one. But we had a small problem. While the Prusa i3 MK3Ss that we have in our print farm here they don't exactly have So we had no way to print the into tons of little but would involve a lot of gluing, which wouldn't be the best Not to mention that it would So we made a call to and if you don't know who E3D is, they're one of the top manufacturers in the 3D printing world. Primarily known for their hot ends, so that's the part that and their extruders, the the aforementioned filament. A few years ago though, totally different that of 3D printing as we know it. The ToolChanger. This bad boy is not Colin needed three full but the finished product we've ever used before. E3D very specifically and intentionally does not market it as a 3D printer. They refer to it instead, Let me explain what that means. Because it's not an off the shelf, click and print machine, you can configure everything about it to So we started out with a Four chimera 3D printing with .4 millimeter nozzles with a different color of to give our case a little flair. By the way, our filament in this Repkord filament storage chamber that's even got our little actually has a built-in humidity sensor. Pretty sweet. To give you an idea of the flexibility that this affords though, maybe that's not your thing. No problem. Throw some dissolving support or maybe you prefer a so you could do the bulk just laying down big old without sacrificing quality bringing in a finer head for those. But none of what I said This does. Wanna laser etch? Chuck a laser diode onto one and (snaps fingers) away you go. What about a milling cutter surfaces? Or even a pick and place head PCBs. No problem. Hell, you could probably reflow This thing runs on mains like you wouldn't believe, peaking at about 200 degrees Celsius. And the duet 2 wifi and expansion board that runs this whole thing, plugged into the back of the unit. It can support up to seven of inputs and outputs, all while hosting it's own web server so you which is super handy for 20 hour prints. Which is what this took. - I feel really bad the full potential of this machine but with some of these and the timeline being really tight ... When a print fails 12 hours into a print, all of a sudden I'm set back a full day. So for most of these prints just to simplify things. - Yeah, this is really cool but um ... - Yeah. - The results are a little, - Yeah, that was actually accidental. So one of the hard parts with this printer is you need to slice it. You need to take your files the colors to be. - Yeah. - And there is not a lot of In fact, I used Prusa Slicer 2.4 Alpha 1 which came out like days printing things here and it but it was a mess trying - The good news is a bit of playing Lego, not with this (laughs), and we end up with this . Surprisingly rigid too, considering that it's all - Yeah, I think it's 20 (drowned out) - Am I gonna break it? - I hope not but worst case - That's true. Man, and this is such a unique shape compared to what you could do with metal. This would cost a fortune to CNC. Look at some of these curves and stuff. You just couldn't. - Yeah, the harder part is holding things when you're machining. So how do you fixture that sproing when you're machining? And then the tool grabs it - No idea. Stuff like this. - [Colin] Big pockets. - [Linus] Really tough. - [Colin] Insets. Can't do 'em. - [Linus] Some of these Wow! - So some of these parts we did on Prusas, if it would fit on the build to get more parts done but other parts, they're too big. So they had to go on the ToolChanger. - Okay, what did this part? - Uh this part ... - This is clean. - I think this is actually, It's within like three millimeters. So that's right off a Prusa, no tuning, and that's why they're so great. - Fun fact, our Prusas so the work was also done on So let's see if I can find one that's done on the big boy then. - [Colin] What you're was done. I didn't put enough top layers on that and so you can actually see the pattern of the infill on there. - Oh yeah, the infill. Yeah, I can see it. Step one is for us to heat You can actually see we've these are actually the back when I did that build So these little insets, in the middle, so that's for the motherboard or for a standoff, and then they have this outside. So what you do, with wood into a pre-drilled hole but obviously, that with a case like this. So we are going to heat. I've never actually done this before. - Yeah, really easy. So we got a Hakko 888D, my and it's at 669, nice. - [Linus] Nice. - [Colin] And you just pop it in there and wait for it to heat Look at that. - Oh, wow! That's clean, boys! - Yeah. - That's insane! Now, I just have to at the same depth. That's super cool. Do we have extra standoffs? - [Colin] You mess one up? - [Linus] No, no, no, than what we need? - [Colin] Oh yeah, we - So we made it compatible - Pretty much. It's ATX now but it'll than ATX. A lot of this build was There's no instruction manual with this. So everything had to be figured out. - I don't actually see to put standoffs. Are we supposed to screw - [Colin] Standoffs. - Oh, we're using plastic spacers. - Yes. - Oh. Okay, all right, I My concern though, is just that ... Oh yeah, okay. - Getting them in is going - Uh yes, I see that. - [Colin] Yeah. - The spacers do appear to so that's good. That was a concern. Here's what we're gonna do, Colin. - Okay. - I've got an idea. - [Colin] Oh no. - We're going to go backwards. Upside down. - Uh oh, oh. Mm-hmm (affirmative), Mm-hmm - Okay. So we're gonna put them all on here. Wait, these are not all the same height. - Yes, they are. - This one's not (piece clanking) (laughs) All right. Thankfully we have some extras. Actually, we had one extra. Oh crap, I need my screwdriver. We gotta ... - Oh, no. - Yup. - But I have ... - Lttstore.com. Okay, here's the idea. It's gonna take teamwork. I've got all of the spacers in place and I am going to hold this like this ... - And then I'm gonna - You're gonna put the case on top and then I'm going to screw - Okay. - Oh god. We're not even close. (laughs) - Oh, there comes one. - My mouth got talent, yo. That's definitely going. Okay. So the board's on there at the very least. - Well, kind of. Let's do one more up here. - Okay, there. That's using your head. - Okay, we got three. Now, the rest we can put down here. - Okay. Awe, this is gonna look sick! All right, let's get the CPU in. Because it's an open air case, So we went for some of the components on the market We could have gone 11900K - By we he means me. - Quantum Magnitude CPU block, thanks EK. (moaning) So nice. Don't worry, the aluminum the water so it's all good. Hello? Oh, there ya are. (gasps) There you are! I see you. - Got a Seasonic Prime 1000 watts. Very nice. - That's really smart. As well designed and taking the heaviest parts and - Really down low. - Definitely a good idea. - It's good for stability, right? You don't want them sitting way up here. - Yeah. - [Colin] This is EK's FLT 240. Now, this case is designed that has an integrated pump in the back but it didn't show up on the standard res and then we're behind it and just VHB it on the back. - [Linus] Oh that looks awesome! - [Colin] Yeah. - Oh, that's sick! I'm not as into EK's re-imagined but it does really good For ram, we've gone with a from G-Skill here. Can't go wrong with those. Man, this is gonna be I mean if you're gonna you better download a fast one, right? It's free real estate. (both laughing) For our boot drive, we went 500GB Crucial P5 and then we went with these 5300 Pro SATA SSDs that are 7.68TBs each. Oh, this is a cool mount. - [Colin] Yeah. - Not the prettiest thing you're intended to have the but you can put up to three SSDS in here, that's super cool. This is chonky. We went with an Asus RTX 3090. 24 GBs of GDDR6X memory. A board that's almost as big It absolutely dwarfs which was already pretty Oh my goodness, it sticks - [Colin] On hindsight, - No, no! It's exactly the right size! I love it! - [Colin] I just wish we had - I know! So we'll have to keep an eye but realistically, with open air case like this, it'll be fine. Oh, interesting. So the fittings come off the front. - Yes, so here's the plan. So the fittings come off goes through this very convenient hole, and then we're gonna have and we'll VHB it. And then there's a little - [Linus] Yep, I see it. - And then that's where go up, up, rad, rad- - And then down. - And then back down to dump here. - Oh, in the top here. - Yeah. - Interesting. - So we're gonna have two a little joiner up here. - Got it. Make this front-mounted is to make a fitting snake. Gonna be a lot of o-rings here. - Not more than Des' PC. - [Linus] We went full mad - [Colin] Okay. (laughs) - Wait for it. Yep. - [Linus] Nice. - For the water cooling, and an extender along with a to get a nice, clean look to And it comes out right over here. We're going GPU priority on this build, it's getting the coolest to the CPU. We talked about this in our but clean soft tubing than crappy hard line. And are we going dual rad here? - [Colin] We're going dual rad. - Oh, that's awesome. - [Colin] Heck yeah. - You might say it's rad. - [Colin] I know what you're thinking, how the heck does this go? - Oh, the fans go first. - Yes. Mount the middle fan before you put it on and then it sits on top of these two fans. - Uh-huh. - I think I forgot to get one So the fix there is I go to fasten all and I get screws. - Um, I think we can fix it another way. We just need open corner fans. - Okay. - So we just go find open corner fans. - Let's go find some open corner fans. - Okay. And this is why it makes radiator optimized fans because when you're open You have so much more right? Whereas when you have Noctua's is semi-open, you because the head of the screw So here's how it works. We've got open corner, 632 Then we've got screws going into the radiator for the other eight. So it's gonna be - [Colin] Yep. - Actually, probably better end up being. - One of the nice things is it has a very low shrinkage rate. PLA shrinks like ... - I was gonna ask about that. - It shrinks a couple percent. - These are such big parts, you can't ... - The shrinkage rate is - (laughs) That is sick. - The cost to make molds to injection mold these parts in plastic or - [Linus] Yeah, just not feasible. - This was two spools of $30 plastic. - [Linus] Not bad. - Less than $60 of material. - This makes me feel like an early 00's McDonald's commercial. (hums) Baby, 'cause I am lovin' it. Hold on a second, Colin, I - How grave of a mistake? - Um ... Not too grave. - Oh, you just didn't - Yeah. - (laughs) Okay. - I went right past the pump. - Yep, yep. That's fine. Just chuck an elbow in there. - Okay, good luck, everybody. Here we go. Cuttin' it. Yeah, it really is too with the built in pump. - Well, I mean ... - Would have been perfect! - It's comin'. - What we're gonna do is hang the pump there. So I'm just gonna jam this barbed fitting, this is a classic EK really big barb head on it. It's gonna kinda friction fit there. (grunts) Okay. - [Colin] Okay. - It's on and it just sits right there. - [Colin] That's pretty good. - It kind of works, right? - [Colin] That totally works. - Okay. - [Colin] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - You ready? - You gotta warn me before like that. - Ready, you ready? We're good, right? We good. Oh God! - Uh ... - (groans) That was not a good noise. Um okay, but this tube is on now. - [Colin] You know if it - Yeah. - This looks sick. - This looks absolutely awesome. - This looks absolutely sick. Should we put color in - Water. All the cool kids run pure water. They know what's up. - This is the front. - Wait, this is the front? - Really, the front's - I guess yeah, the front is ... - Whatever you want to show off. - Yeah, but there's no front I/O so you'd kinda need access You could just face it, it looks so good. - Like it's presenting. - Yeah! - Yeah. - A little awkward. (laughs) This is the workplace I created, I get it. Man, this thing must've We talk about how difficult to manufacture this in but even just designing and contours is not easy. - Actual true design where from a concept to a industrial designed thing? That's hard. Can I get an lttstore.com cable tie? - We've sold through them. - You know what we (grunts) Look how cute he is! - Get your own Linus plushie. We've got bearded and un-bearded. I'm havin' a thought right now. - [Colin] Is it a dangerous thought? - From an aesthetic standpoint, I would prefer to go from here to here but from an ease of use standpoint, I would prefer to go from here to here. - [Colin] I think it - You think so? - [Colin] Absolutely. - Then that's what we're doin'. - Yeah. Okay, I think we just need power cables. While Linus was out filming PC or no PC, go subscribe so you don't miss that, the wiring's been tidied up, and I've run a few on performance. We even tossed a mild raising GPU core clocks on the memory and a quick with video setting cranked and it did a rock solid Turning that on to balanced up to around 80 fps. Similarly cranked made for a very playable 110 fps at 4K with our temps under load Totally fine. To make sure it wouldn't spicy benchmark loading it didn't melt. It's still here. - [Linus] Yay! - Woo! Little bit of RGB and and we end up with what we have here now. The cable mod cables really did a number to keep everything super tidy in the back. There's no real place to hide the cables and it's kind of okay. It's an open frame case, So thanks again to E3D for To Prusa and Repkord for the And of course, thanks to this section of the video. SalesForce makes it easier to adapt to evolving customer needs in an increasingly digital By using SalesForce, new business and develop relationships with your customers right from your CRM. Send messages to specific getting as broad or as create a help center and assist in getting the You can also meet your to better assist them by and social channels and right inside of the SalesForce app. Request a demo or get started per month. Head to salesforce.com/linustech Thanks again to SalesForce of the video. And that's a wrap on this build. If you want to see some more wild builds, check out Desk PC, that was a slog, and that's got some 3D