- Look what happened, is this crazy? - [Narrator] Donald Trump has been elected to a second term as president, defeating a resurgent Democratic nominee and Vice President Kamala Harris. - People are unhappy with and they wanted a change. They wanted something different, and Trump was that something different. - [Narrator] Trump, who by his own party following the January 6th Capitol Riot, is the first felon to - Guilty on all 34 felony counts. - What we saw in the last four years is probably the groundwork and execution of the greatest political - [Narrator] Here are Trump's return to the White House. - America's comeback starts right now. - I remember being at Trump's There were virtually no His own children declined to attend. He really had been - [Narrator] Many Republican lawmakers had turned to other candidates just seven days after the in the 2022 midterm elections, but then. - Probably the single most important event in the Republican primary was Trump's first indictment. - [Narrator] Trump was indicted four times after leaving office. Prosecutors accused the president of trying to overturn the 2020 election, knowingly holding on to and paying off a porn star - Virtually all of his competitors in the Republican primary defended him. - They have weaponized and put politics in the Department of Justice. - It was really a very If you're a political candidate and you're criminally indicted, most people would say that's not a good thing for your campaign. But because almost none wanted to capitalize on that fact, each indictment became to Trump's candidacy. - [Narrator] Trump's campaign as a fundraising opportunity, blasting emails that accused of election interference. In late May, when Trump was convicted of 34 counts of falsifying records to cover up hush money payments, his campaign rigged in in small dollar donations. - He had this residual goodwill with the vast majority Many of them believed his false claim that the election was stolen, so they saw him as a sort of incumbent. - [Narrator] On the campaign trail, Trump ramped up his incendiary rhetoric. - They're poisoning the They're not humans, they're We don't need another low IQ person. - He has never been interested in calls from even many Republicans to tone it down or to speak Trump believes that this is rhetoric that appeals to his voters. - When I say the enemy from within, the other side goes crazy. - The Trump campaign has immigration and the economy. I remember being in Michigan and Wisconsin and I'd ask people at his rallies, what's the most important issue to you? And they would say the border. Trump was very effective in getting that message across to voters and making them fear migrants. - They're eating the dogs, they're eating the cats. They're eating, they're eating the pets. - Trump's previous campaigns by this sense of disarray The ground game, as we call it, where they go and knock on and physically go out it always paled in - An important factor in Trump's was that he ran a much and strategic campaign. - What they wanted to do was focus on the tiny group of undecided voters. They call 'em persuadables. And go to those people. - Food for everyone, food for everyone. - Because that's really where not just blindly knocking and saying, &quot;Hey, please - [Narrator] After the Republican primary, Trump's team laid the groundwork for a tough battle in November. The former president maintained over Joe Biden as voters grappled with the And then, in late June. - If we finally beat Medicare. - [Moderator] Thank you, - Well, he's right, he did beat Medicare, he beat it to death. - One of the most astonishing events to come out of this election was the debate between Joe The next two weeks after that, the Trump campaign did for the Trump campaign, which was to lay low. Because all the focus was on Joe Biden. - Then, out of the blue, (gunshots popping) literally came the assassin's bullet, which came within a fraction - [Narrator] Just days after Trump made a triumphant comeback at the Republican National - [Supporter] You will - So the Trump campaign, they decided they were going of juicing their base, driving up turnout from unexpected and new parts of the electorate. - Obviously, everything changed once Vice President - I know Donald Trump's type. - Not only was there enormous enthusiasm suddenly on the Democratic side, something that we had but also the Trump campaign, which had been so disciplined was so worried that Trump He was angry, he went off message, and he started to say that they did not want him saying. - And she was only I didn't know she was Black when she happened to turn Black, and now she wants to be known as Black. - [Narrator] Trump scaled in a bid to counter Harris' rise. He adopted a busier schedule - With your auto industry, I mean, it's a big deal. - [Narrator] He was and YouTube channels. - That's down and dirty, right? - [Narrator] He campaigned - Take over, Elon. Just take over. - [Narrator] In the final Trump stuck with his - Never touched by a human hand. Nice and clean. - [Narrator] And on one of her key liabilities. - As the so-called border czar, the person in charge - Immigration has been We've seen more and more Americans come around to Trump's point of view on the issue of the border. People are fed up. They feel that nothing's been done, that the border is in chaos, and that tough action - [Narrator] As president, Trump has proposed sweeping hardening US borders, and deporting millions of immigrants living in the country illegally. - This is really an important moment, definitely for Democrats, but Despite all these things that normally would in his case propped him up and got him through to victory again. - Kamala Harris also did him some favors by not really distinguishing herself from the administration she was a part of. Once he was able to remind people that she was essentially the incumbent, that she was part of a status and that he represented a he was able to successfully that if they wanted something (gentle music)