The chullachaqui is a small being, has its chakra in pieces, one day it was raining and I wanted to shade some big fins, I wanted to enter, the chullachaki was there sitting there with his hat. [Music] Legends in the Amazon During my days of exploration in the Amazon jungle, I have had the opportunity to learn a lot about the local culture and I have been talking with many people, they share their life experiences with me and of course the dark legends could not be missing. This aspect of the societies, I always find it fascinating, how it is that in fact almost everywhere that you visit, you'll find scary legends, ghosts legends or ancient beliefs; people simply like to give a paranormal interpretation to certain events that happen so I'm going to share with you some that have fascinated me the most, the ones you often hear and I'm also going to share with you some of the testimonies that I have recorded from people telling me about their experiences around these legends, these paranormal myths. Let's get started. [Music] Part I: The chullachaqui The legend of the chullachaqui is undoubtedly the most popular in the Amazonian area of Peru. It narrates that the chullachaqui is a mysterious being, that dwells within the jungle and is believed to be from a small size, perhaps of a meter twenty of height, is very mischievous and it's very tempting. The paranormal quality that the chullachaqui has is that he can imitate the appearance of the person he desires as well as being half human and half animal its mission within the jungle is to lose the hunters or those he think are a threat to the jungle. The chullachaqui is in a way, a caretaker of nature. It is said that when you are alone, the chullachaqui grabs you, looks you straight in the eyes, imitates the way you look and in that way deceives your companions to lead them astray. Let's say, if the chullachaqui now would find me alone, he would learn how I move, how I talk and then he would pretend to be me, to lead my fellow travelers astray and lose theminto the jungle. [Music] Luis, are you okay? Yeah, I'm good. This is the way, follow me Fede, what are you doing? Who you talking to? Come, it's this way Let's go What the hell?...it was chullachaqui! The most curious thing about the chullachaqui is that most of the people who inhabit the region of the Amazon rainforest, claim to have seen it, heard it or had some kind of experience with it. When I was walking in the jungle, I saw a man who was coming for the trail, where we went ahead and he was coming towards us and there he was coming a person that we thought was a person like us but it wasn't but then he disappeared behind a big tree. He walked towards...like this, he walked like this He was limping Yes, he limped as if one side was the smallest leg and the other bigger. [Music] I'm going to tell you a story about my son when he was a kid, he was 9 years old; we worked in the jungle, taking wood for the house. They knocked down a tree that had fruit he ran to the trunk where the fruit was and found a little boy, smaller He realized that his little feet were normal, but the man tiny and had a beard [ininteligible] Once I met the chullachaqui I started a conversation with the chullachaqui and then what he told me is what do you want from the mountain? so I asked him for his wealth, so if you are not afraid of me, I will introduce myself directly to you, but it was a woman the chullachaqui. - Oh it had in female form! Did the chullachaqui trick you? Took you to the mountain Yeah, he even called by my name, but I didn't attend, I didn't want to answer I knew he was hiding. I am a person who is always going stopping hunting animals and there I always I hear him but I never see him; sometimes he whistles at m, sometimes he throws mud at us, but obviously I can't see him, so far. I always hear it, he makes noises sometimes he calls me by my name but I don't know him. [Music] The chullachaqui is a small being, has its shell in pieces, [unintelligible] One day it was raining and I wanted to shade some big fins, I wanted to enter, the chullachaki was there sitting there with his hat. The legend of the chullachaqui reaches such a level that there are real-life stories of communities that have come together to search for a person lost in the jungle, the most recent one, that in fact is in a comunity close to here called Puerto Miguel, tells about a woman who swore she was following her husband, but her husband was the one who really lost her. The husban came back to the comunity and told everyone I lost her, she's gone. Everyone went looking for her, they found her days after! in a dying state and she told I was following my husband, eventually he ran off and left me, lost alone in the jungle. It has a beutiful interpretation this spooky legend, and it makes us think about the care that has to be given to the jungle. The chullachaqui usually loses poachers, loses those who harm to its trees, to its wildlife, to its birds, so now you know, if you ever come to the Amazon rainforest, respect the environment, respect the pachamama, or else, the chullachaqui will come to get you lost. [Music] Part II: El bufeo colorado Another well known legend in the Amazon region, is the one of the &quot;bufon colorado&quot; or the pink dolphin. It is told of a very handsome fisherman, usually is told with a foreign american appearance, let's call him, as if it were the appearance of an American blond and a little taller in stature; this man is dedicated to seduce the local women, he is very charming, he's chatty. It is said that in one occasion, the most beautiful girl in one of the Amazonian communities, was tempted by this very handsome fisherman, she could not resist his charms and he persuaded her to leave her community. He told her, come here, come with me, let's sail away together. She abandoned her family, she abandoned her locals, her loved ones to go with him only to find out later, and listen to me well, this tells the legend that he had some strange attitudes, he really liked to swim, he was a really good swimmer and suddenly he made a sound, like the dolphins do when they grab air, the oxygen... the young fisherman, every morning would leave very early from home, very early before she woke up, with the excuse that the best fishing is done early. He had to take advantage firt thing in the morning. Some night, the young and handome fisherman went out drinking, which prevented him from waking up the next day he fell asleep more than necessary and she woke up before he did, only to find that the one who was sleeping next to her, in her bed, was not her young and handsome fisherman boyfriend! It was a pink dolphin! As you hear it! She woke up next to a dolphin! So she said: no, what is he doing?! She left, scared screamed at the people next to her a dolphin, a dolphin is in my house! The dolphin disappeared, swam away. No one saw him again no one saw the young fisherman again either and months after, the girl found out she was pregnant. When it was time to give birth, the girl died, she lost her life because of complications and when they opened her body, when they tried to do the cesarean, they found that who was in her womb was not a human being, but a tiny pink dolphin. [Music] in the past it was heard that they used to go out to the parties in Iquitos, for example and they would go out to the parties until 12 o'clock in the night well dressed; shoe, hat all right, well dressed, as americans. Good loking. Oh wow if it was past 12 o'clock, they went to the river...and if they didn't get here before 12 o'clock their hat fell off. It was a ray fish, came out of their shoes and they went into the water without hats, shoes without anything, because it was after 12 o'clock at night. [Music] What about that? That's a real legend! Real real and people here love to tell it to you; the one about the handsome foreigner man who took the from the community and it turned out to be a pink dolphin. About this one, not many people tell that they have seen it or that they have felt it, it's different, but there is this belief that when a handsome foreigner arrives, to want to seduce the locals, inmediatly exist this belief of no, walk away, because it's the pink dolphin, is the bufeo colorado and well, it seems to me to be a curious human behavior, at least as I am analyzing it, how is it that in order to protect their local women, they made this legend and in this way, scare away the handsome fishermen that would come from other places. Why want to do miscegenation? here in these communities people are a little sensitive about this issue, they like to stay local, they like to keep their blood as it is, their appearance and they don't like to be mixed, whether it's a man with a foreign woman or a woman with a foreign man, then I think it's a curious legend, that was invented to keep this &quot;purity&quot; in their communities and thus avoid miscegenation. And just like these legends that I'm telling you, there are many more and it is enough to talk with the locals for they to tell you, they are fascinated to talk about this. I just making a coverage, about something; I was doing a coverage about what people do for a living and when I got to interview someone, told me: hey but don't you want me to tell you about legends? and about the time I saw the chullachaqui. They love it and I think it is very beautiful, really. Represents their culture very well and in every place you visit, you will find at least one legend of a paranormal nature, of a dark nature. In your communities, in your towns, in the places where you live what legends there are of this kind? Are there perhaps these legends that I have just narrated with another name, with other characteristics? You can leave it down here in the comments. Thank you for joining me! As always, see you in a few days with a new video! And now you know, take care of the chullachaqui, of the bufeo colorado and many more unexplained things Bye bye [Music].