Boeing has spent years trying fatal Max eight crashes, but face problems with production a door plug flying off a max took off from Portland, fallen about 30% this year. The iconic company that once safety is losing more and Airbus. It's delivered more orders for the fifth Some airlines are scaling delays in production. Airlines are desperate for new many planes that you're going let's say, is a very for airline executives. My message is Boeing hasn't talked. It's let's get your Deliver first. Focus on the basics. Get aircraft that are quality safe. The pressure on Boeing has led and in an effort to correct production back on track, it fuselage maker Spirit Boeing spun off in 2005. So much of Boeing's outsourced, and now Boeing is saying, okay, maybe that was especially when it comes to Spirit AeroSystems, which is Airlines, is one of the companies in the world with globe. It makes components military aircraft, including and wings. Boeing is far and away their provides 100% of the second most popular aircraft, Over the past few years, there manufacturing flaws that have AeroSystems factory on big are going to Boeing. Clearly, a lot of manufacturing mishaps Yeah, so Boeing has to bring managed. The deal, if it closes, would since its merger with Spirit, however, also other plane manufacturers, complex. We're going to be job done with their we'll get a deal done. The Boeing Company has been It helped usher in the jet flight to the world. They designed and built some commercial aircraft in And I think it's important to Boeing went from the first the Boeing 747 jumbo jet. Boeing got started in Seattle century. It started building War Two, including the subsidiary company Stearman This would later become the Airplanes are made of a very days, and if you go back in wasn't the case. Most of the location, and there were from outside suppliers, let's engines. But by and large, was mostly made in-house by And that really began to In 1997, Boeing merged with It was an aircraft commercial planes like the MD and military aircraft. There is a belief that the since this merger with profitability, as opposed to The McDonnell team was more team. A good, relevant AeroSystems. You know, why Well, one at the time that Rona return on that assets. That was a McDonnell Douglas Two at the time, many the aerospace and defense system integrators, not Boeing at the time looked at Wichita, Kansas, where they you know, if we spun this out company, we could take a lot of work and process off our our return on invested And this standalone company, services and components to us a better value. Boeing sold the Wichita unit To private equity firm Onex AeroSystems. Today, Spirit headquartered in Wichita. In 2023, 70% of the revenue generated came from work from Boeing says it can build one nine days, but many of those like the fuselage, which gets Boeing does a quick final plane from start to finish in After Spirit was spun off parts for other main rival, Airbus. It manufactures the wings for in Northern Ireland, and North Carolina. Boeing spun off its Wichita improve profitability. That puts the financial to build the fuselages for But clearly this has come terms of quality control. When Aerostructures is not a supply chain, it's probably a In 2011, suppliers were paid delivered their finished things are today, it's 120 extremely hard for the Spirit has faced some issues It's been fined by OSHA for including exposure to deaths. Spirit has also 2019. Its stock is down over the pandemic and production Spirit derives the lion's revenue from these 737 When you shut down your the 737 Max incident is Spirit and to Spirit's In 2022, Boeing reported by Spirit. In 2023, the bulkheads had missed drilled delaying production. In chain still faces challenges. Post-pandemic. Labor prices have escalated. Spirit agreed to a 40% wage over a four year period, and going up and lead times went Spirit replaced its CEO last former Boeing employee. Pat Shanahan, a Boeing veteran program and has a lot of When he went in to become the saw things and was able to leadership in a way that wasn't. Boeing and Spirit AeroSystems earlier report that they are, Boeing spent years trying to two crashes of its best and 2019 that killed 346 The more recent crisis, where bolts were missing, has over its manufacturing The fuselage of Spirit blew out, was removed to without the fasteners. So not Spirit's fault. That was Boeing's fault. But I think, you know, before significant issues with Spirit fuselages. The current talk about Spirit back under the wing, decision ultimately, right, over an important piece of Boeing was trying to ramp up jet, but since the Alaska sharply slowed it down. After an audit of Boeing's found dozens of issues. The FAA has taken a very hard They said, Boeing, you cannot the 737 Max until we are practices. Boeing makes most of its money off the 737. So where Boeing goes with the has a huge impact on the Boeing commercial aircraft The Federal Aviation days to come up with a up at the end of May. So we took all of the people doing those people who are doing the positions in the factory, and From that day forward, which only accept they will only which means it comes in this and then it moves through cycle. Spirit AeroSystems reported on it's seen a 15% improvement new inspection protocols, but will have to lay off up to location because of the So one of the things that's back Spirit's fuselage maker a lot of work for Airbus, So they're going to have to And it does get very complex that. In light of the situation potentially the interest to also imagine that some of the find their way to Airbus and But that, quite frankly, is a stages. The deal isn't done yet, but I happening is that Boeing will business most closely know, headlined by the But then those elements of Airbus, we think, are likely to a third party entity. Boeing just agreed to give $425 million to help the production demand until a We are working diligently to to get that done. Spirit in customers or taking actions relationships are what they they do in that regard is get a deal done, I believe, It's it's it's more than Boeing's first quarter was but the company spent close tries to stabilize its And in order to make more planes. We are already beginning to and reduced cycle times in these enhanced quality While near term delivery benefits from a synchronized substantial. The good news is that Boeing generating significant cash If it gets its act together, leadership. The company is also under of Justice. It said Boeing that protected it from fatal 737 Max crashes, potential US prosecution. Boeing has denied those Whether or not this deal road ahead to get back to Really only have two suppliers and Airbus can't do it all. Will Boeing turn itself it will. Um, it's going to Airline customers are travel demand has continued of the pandemic. We've heard southwest, United, Alaska company. You know, they they right, and they know that