Hi, Ujiie here. The Prophet Rev2. By Dave Smith Instruments. The Prophet Rev2 here, it's uh, I mean, well, THIS is analog! And the analog sounds that I myself love? This thing is just loaded with them! This is a fully analog poly synth with DCOs. And this here Prophet Rev2 has 16-voices. There's also an 8-voice version. Two models. But this one here, sixteen voices. Excellent filter here. Check that out. Fantastic! Sounds like there's a few sounds mixed together here. Well, it's in Stack A+B mode. This lets you layer two different sounds. Play a sound, decide you wanna layer it, press the button. And since the unit does have sixteen voices, in Stack mode you get 8 voices per layer. Yeah, extravagant! You hear all those sounds? Uh, back to the sound I was playing at the start of the video. Raise the mod wheel... ...and the other sound in the Stack comes in. And, to get even more ANALOG, there's the OSC SLOP knob here. This knob, here, I'll raise the level. That's it. It lets you control an induced amount of instability to the oscillators. This is really awesome. When you set the knob between 9 and 10 o'clock? Such an exquisite analog feeling there. Perfectly controllable. This kind of sound, SO nice! Something else you find on lots of Dave Smith synths, the Pan Spread parameter. When you raise the Pan Spread level, uh, here it's at minimum. Now maximum. It spreads out the oscillators within the stereo field. You hear how the panning is different each time here? That is such an enormous effect. This is a Stack too. A kick sound, plus arpeggiator. That's nice. This kind of, vibe sound? Crank up the mod wheel and... ...ring modulation takes over. Mmm. That kind of thing. You know, having a 5-octave keyboard is great for a poly synth! Ah, I just love this kind of sound! A pad, and uh, it's in Split mode now, Split A/B. A pad on the A sound. And... This kind of sound over here. Good, huh? Look here. There's an arpeggiator, ok? Turn it off. Turn it on. Now, with the Rev2 here, you've got an effect processor, just a single unit. This is a digital effects section by the way. So the sound goes through digital effects. Turn it off, and you get a completely analog signal path start to finish. That's how it's structured. This. One-fingered chords, ok? This is a Split. This sound. This uh, well, synth brass sound, right? Natch, you can tweak the cutoff here. The motion of the filter changes, yeah? Now, since the unit is in Stack A+B mode, the edits affect the A sound. Press the uh, Edit, Edit Layer B button and... ...your edits will affect the B sound. Obviously it's got ADSR controls, so you can shorten the sound like so. There are FOUR LFOs altogether. Excellent! Something else. Low pass filter here, ok? Amplifier controls over here, right? But there's an Auxiliary Envelope too! You've got one more independent envelope generator, AND the way you set what this envelope controls, uh for example now the Env3 Destination is Oscillator 1 Frequency. Just one way to use it. Huge possibilities! Very nice work with this. Fantastic! This sound. Stack isn't lit, so it's just one sound, ok? There's a Sequencer too, by the way. Polyphonic sequencer! Press Record, and it shows Track 1, ok? Six tracks in all! There's a Rest button here. Let's record something. Like that. 16 steps. Oh, nice. You can tweak the sound while the sequence is playing. Right. Ok. For the second track, track 2, let's play something higher up, shall we? Just an idea what you can do, ok? And of course, you can do track, uh, since there are six tracks in all, well something about this polyphonic sequencer, the polyphony is six voices max, so, yeah. It is great to have a polyphonic sequencer though. Ah, GATE! You can control the gate, uh, length, of the notes too. Very good job here. THIS. With this steady rhythm going... Yeah, that kind of thing. A word about sound banks. You've got Factory Banks one, two, three and four. And there are User Banks one through four as well. Each bank has 128 programs. So, altogether, 128 times eight! Wow. Very good. What else? Uh, Factory Bank 2 is full of rather orthodox synth sounds. Like strings. I think you heard, it's velocity sensitive. you can change the timbre, the envelope, attack time, etc. VERY expressive! Stereo Brass. Oh man, this synth brass is SO full of Prophet-5 DNA. The touch with this sound too... What a nice sound! Great! Mmm, touch working nicely here too! Splits, since you've got 61-keys to work with, and can work dynamically with that range, are SO nice! Yeah. Good! Ah, arpeggiated sounds like this one are great! Mmm, sounds good! Right. This is the basic, raw, pure sound. I'm sure you're keen to know more about the oscillators. I've got the Oscillator Mix knob set all the way to Osc 1 only. Sawtooth waveform now. Saw plus Triangle. Triangle. Pulse. You can change the shape of them via the Shape Mod knob. Let's change the shape of the Triangle. It changed, yeah? Even the Sawtooth! You can change the shape! The changes are shown on the LCD display too. See that there? There's a Sub Oscillator too. Noise too. Adjust the Osc Mix and you can let this guy in too. You can Sync Osc 2. Forces Osc 2 to follow Osc 1. That's that. Incidentally... uh, you can get the filter to self-oscillate in 4-pole mode. You can also turn the oscillators off. No LED? It's off. What you're hearing is just the filter! By changing the Amount... ...you set the pitch. In 2-pole mode, it won't self-oscillate. I think that's it. Good work with the oscillators. Back to a normal sound here. Yeah, there we go. Sounds good, right? OK! Right then. The Dave Smith Instruments Prophet Rev2. Well, having a 61-key keyboard like this, with such nice touch sensitivity, and wooden side panels? So nice! And directly descended from the Prophet-5, this full analog sound! Perfect! Seriously, go try one yourself! There's an 8-voice version, and a 16-voice, double expanded version. 16-voice model here. I'll wrap up with a strings sound that makes the most of those 16 voices! Awesome! Translation &amp; Captions by: