Hey guys Dan here! UMM, so I've already been recording this for about 12 minutes bare in mind I started where I left off in the previous video, We're playing raft today because you guys loved it and wanted to see me play some more! So I did play some more and my goal was this, the shark trophy now. I don't know about you But Bobby is making my life a little bit difficult. So I'm gonna try to make this today. I... heheha, but it didn't go well. At all! Oh no. Oh, no. It's all getting a bit gray so again a little bit gray and It's gonna fade to black any second now, the survivors never been my strong point Incapacitated waiting for rescue Bobby! I know we've been enemies up until now But please save me! so instead of starting in the middle of the ocean with nothing, I thought I would start again. heheh, and I have no shame in putting it on easy because I want you guys to enjoy this video Do not think I suck . Let's go kill da shark. That's what we're gonna do. create world okay, let's start again!, We'll get some supplies and Hopefully Get that shark head as well I've got one plastic hook I'm back to zero, but at least I've got a little bit of knowledge in this noggin Where's Bobby at? Bobby better be in this mode. Otherwise, I'll be well upset. There He is! Hey buddy, i'm back! I think my mistake last time was not making a planter because I ate all of the potatoes I scoffed em' But I'm gonna quickly swim and get this barrel though. There you go Ow, ow, ow, grab this, grab this I just need something to, to move this I think. okay I may or may not have taken a few hits from Barry already It was to get barrels though, because I'm not doing too. Well right now. Let's grab ourselves I can't I need rope, rope! craft and then I need a building hammer This is like going back to basics right now, and let's build a bigger platform Yes! Yes, okay. This is better. Perfect, alright. I've got one more platform I can use but I don't you right now. I do want that barrel though. Come on Come on throw as long as you can. Oh! What reel in yes, this is going much better. I still have no food, though There is an island coming up though. BOBBY! BOBBY! I just built that do you have to!? I have no weapon. I need to make myself a stabby stick as soon as possible What an absolute punk! How dare you? I've got a beat! And a potato. Let's GO! Let's put that right back! Okay, let's start this properly now shall we let's get ourselves a small crop lot. We need rope. Oh, I'm missing the stuff I also need a stabby stick. You know what let's get a stabby stick and he broke for that as well. Fantastic. [TRIGGERED] oh! I'm missing so much stuff Noooooo!! No, I need things. Ah, there's that thing from before. I don't think I can use it though, alright! Let's just focus on getting things built. I need food. Please small crop plot craft that bad boy. All right, let's try this. Shall we? Let's see what happens. So a small crop plot can go let's put it let's put it here and then plant this and, Plant the beetroot. yes... Yes!!! This is better simple grill. I need some more rope. Actually. Let's go to purifier first hold R. I Don't want to bring around this needs to go. Let's put this there and We need a grill as well BAM! okay, this is set up and ready to go right now Yes!!! like I've learned my lesson. It's crazy I need a lot more planks though. I don't know where all the plants come from Oh no, my dude's getting hungry already How do I solve this hunger situation so quickly? I've got, needs fresh water what!?!? it needs fresh water Oh my goodness, okay This game isn't for me. This game just isn't for me. I was used to Minecraft I wanna I wanted to scoop up some pigs cook their pork chops, but no, what is that up there? There's a tent up there. How do I get a sail again? I Need one more p.... Oh my goodness. I can't even craft it. Oh, geez, this game is hard, you know!?[TRIGGERED EVEN MORE] Here we go. Water crops. I don't actually know what that does I'm guessing it does something I thought this was supposed to be easy mode &gt;:( . This was supposed to be easy. Ah OHHHHHH BOBBY, BOBBY no. No, I need that get away! &gt;:( It doesn't even work NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I cannot believe you just did that -_- What a chump. Is he joking? He's actually gonna do he's actually gonna do that, right? That just costs me a load of materials. It's dark and I'm alone &lt;:( Well, I'm never alone because Bobby's always there. Um... HAW. There's no food in there either He's just hanging around waiting for me to die again. Yeah, I get it. I get that Bobby even in easy mode Yes, I do fairly easy mode as well. Okay, potato potato i just got myself a potato I need to pop that there place a couple planks I'm gonna die just look at my health bars. Yeah, I'm dead get up get up right now. At least there's less of a punishment for dying I mean was supposed to be easier. I guess that does make it a lot easier begin a gatherer. Okay. Great It's a bird Hey, hey, what are you doing here? Huh? These better give me some good things, right? I've got cooked potato as eat this bad boy. There we go. Finally I've fallen in I've fallen in jeez I definitely need a weapon where the weapons are stabby stick. I need rope stabby stick yes, I will put your head on a spike Barry, Bobby whate... Whatever your name is. It seems to me if I'm angry. He's Bobby. I just realized my hook is broken Don't fear. I've got a new one. Why is the music starting? Does that mean inevitable doom is is about to happen? Is that what's going on here, huh? have these grown yet no? he's back I will save my own raft this time. Get out of here Oh Put your head on a spike. You hear me? I got a beat I got a cooked and a non cooked one. I could plant one I guess But I'm gonna eat this one And we're back to stableness. Oh, here we go. How many do we get - Two okay, so One turns into two that's not so bad to be honest. It does take a long time though Okay, I think we can actually make a sail now we have enough leaves So I might just do that. Let's try Sail craft. Yeah, let's go gonna grab this barrel and then we're gonna head over to there I don't know what it is, but we floated by it and I think Bobby went over to it So maybe there were some humans there. Okay, let's go what other weapons can we get? It doesn't look like we have much Equipment is blank But I guess need a research table useful for chopping down trees and removing raft parts Okay, we should probably do that at some point. That means when you get to an island this game hurts my brain always watching you buddy. I'm like Roz. I'm always watching. Yeah, Looks like I could only stab him if he is provoking me, that's fine I'm really not getting any closer to this though. Am I uh, Should I just go for it? There's just take my cooked potato and go for it. No, no Stay away. He's definitely getting more scars on him the more that I poke him with this. Okay, I'm going for it I'm going for I just need to look out for where he is There he is. There he is. There he is. Can I poke him poke? I poked him. And now I'm lost. What is it rain? since when has there been? rain? Oh, no, this is bad. This is bad. It looks like there's something on here though Oh No get on get on I want to steal this, how do we steal this time pick up crates? Stone metal ore what? I want the bet I saw on the bed. Can I have it? No, it's on. Okay. Where is Mike? where's my raft? Oh No, oh there it is, okay That was almost a terrible terrible decision. Can I make it there without Bobby getting me? Probably not the waves are getting Ridiculous though. I made it. I made it. I made it. Yes so worth it Now know what it's so raining. Oh, no, this looks horrible harvest harvest harvest Yes, this is sweet. Like we know what we're doing. Look the bed gives you more health We just need nails we just scrap now I'm still in the storm. Just kind of chilling out lost Basically, I want to craft the bed and I also want to craft a streamer because then you know which way the wind is going So you can go forwards. I'm very lost right now though. Hey, hey, what are you doing back off? Back off buddy. Oh Geez,[TRIGGERED x100] so done with this dude so I can get this bird. Oh Ho that was close so I did actually forget about the Yeah, how many ? yeah just 2 let's double that to four and put another beat you in Grab the freshwater. Oh my goodness. I am flying now Yeah, I forgot about the fishing rods here. I can make rope and make a fishing rod. I completely forgot Hey, didn't I use this last time? That was that was terrible, but I can't quite remember How you could tell if there was a fish on the end? I? Can see a little fish but I'm pretty sure that's just the bait right? I Think so. Oh Yes. Oh my goodness. How did I forget about this? now we're making fish for days what catch the fish? catch a fish Catch a fish. There we go. We got a catfish. Okay pick up the cooked beets now we can put down I need a big fire to cook this thing. I cook it though. No, this is massive. I could just straight-up munch on it That's a bad idea Let me eat the beetroot so I don't die and let's try and put the Talaper on there. Ah Yes. Oh, yes, that's better What are we doing this catfish? Thought the thing's massive It's like all this is almost as big as bobby. I got mackerel as well Okay, let's see if we can cook mackerel - how much is this gonna fill us up? Oh Yes, I am NOT dying anymore. I'm good. I'm good, Bobby. Did you hear that? I'm good. Do you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna make this bigger just so that if what he does attack, he's not gonna he's not gonna take any of my items I think that's how it works. Anyway, we can also make literally anything we want our stairs Full stairs. I Need nails though for those but we getting there we getting there. I still want to get the shark trophy What does it cost? Oh I need nails for that as well I need to scrap but obviously first I need to kill him and take his head But then I need the scrap to be able to actually like use it So I can display it on my raft for the rest of the Sharks to see One day one day you will be mine and I need to figure out what to do this catfish. I got me a herring What and I can see this thing and it's all its glory I can't eat it raw, but I'm not gonna eat this fish straw That seems a little bit mean can hold this guy just out as well. This is a Weird game not gonna lie. Hey, hey, where are you, you know, come on How many pokes does it take to kill? You know, I try to hit with a hammer? So angry, I'm so mad it broke I must have been so close to get a give as well One more poke and he would have been out of here I need I have hardly any blanks and he rope as well and he planks for a research table How I just need to I need to get to an island so I can cut down some trees But I'm not seeing anything around here only five more planks Because I built these extra parts, isn't it at least now? I have a nice collection of food, like a really nice collection of foods cooked mackerel. Let's go It looks terrifying. Oh my goodness look its face. Oh we're gonna eat it, though. I Don't have anything to hit him with him the cant h hits him. Otherwise look at all the scars? You've got so many holes in his face from me hitting him you know what just take it buddy. If that's what you want. As long as you're not chewing on my arm, then I don't mind. Ah Items This is the stuff that I needed. I needed so many more planks a lot more beetroots rope. Oh great Look at this two barrels Right now I can craft this spear so that if he comes back I'm gonna I'm gonna get his head on one of these things sharp trophy. I need nails though I don't know where you get scrap from. Oh What!? I didn't know they could do that you just straight up tried to steal my stuff What an absolute chump? Oh no. Oh, no, it's definetely when you swimming away from me And when that's gonna do this, let's not do this. I just fell off. Whoa. That was close Oh you're done You're so done. Take this right in the eye You're gonna make me miss all these planks dude scrap. Yes. Okay now I think I can make a bed I'm pretty sure if I make these nails and then go for Where is it? Where is it simple beds? craft Hey There it is Big bed lay down ha ha and you get yourself some some health from doing that as well Perfect. Oh, no, I'm hungry. I'm hungry. I'm real hungry. Give me this eat it harvest these Ok, perfect I need to drink as well. I'm doing good But I keep on forgetting to to fill everything up again just because I feel like I'm doing so well There's another wreck on the horizon. What do you got ha it's got something in it. Please have something good Oh my goodness. It has loads stone bolts amazing getaway, Bobby Remember, I still got space for it. I'm gonna build a wall. I'm gonna have space for it, don't you worry? What's that? How do we make myself an anchor? I need one more rope and then I can make one Yeah, this could be good. It's horrible. Anchor let your anchor up can only be used once Okay, let's bear that in mind and let's go Back over to that rock. Okay, I'm not currently moving. So I really want to go that way. There he is Welcome No Did I do it I got shark meat oh My goodness, I Did it this is what I was planning to do the whole time Hey, I actually feel kind of bad. I Got the shark head. Oh, no he's sinking in he's Gone. I just want all this shark meat I can carry Oh, I feel so bad. He's just sinking to the bottom See you later Bobby Oh no he just stole some of my crops! But at least they've got you know what he just stole to my potatoes and I'm not even mad I mean, I'm a little bit mad because he took advantage of a pretty crazy situation, but we got a shark Where did the rest of the shark go, who knows? Well, we know because it kind of sunk we need three nails to be able To put this on the show I need to go and find myself some scrap I was gonna dock up there and stuff but turns out I don't need to anymore I've done what I came to do. The wind wouldn't let me go there. Okay, right I just realized they have some scrap on me so we can make this nail and we can now craft ourselves the shark trophy But first how many planks do I need? I need four planks so I just need to make sure I don't I don't use all the Planks because I want to build a nice little wall for this. It's gonna be it's gonna be phenomenal We're gonna put it i think i'm gonna put it over here. So if we go wooden wall What do we want a big wooden wall? I mean Yeah, let's do that. Let's oh jeez. Let's eat something before we die! Give me this, eat this (ah) that makes my hunger go up so much Geez, okay! Next we need to just craft this thing craft the shark trophy and there is look at me pointing at it. I'm like (HEHA) gotcha Punk (&gt;:D) um, Sorry Bobby / barry The first oh, I can't. I could only type that much. Sorry Bobby/Barry. Oh dude, does the shark come back though? Yes, he does. Yes, he does!!! :O THERE'S A NEW ONE!! He's not gonna be happy with this Is he I wish I kind of turned that round so that we had him facing the other way We did it we killed Bobby only took me an hour and a half and Restarting my whole game to get it, but we're back look all these items as well my goodness We're back with fully functional we're renewable and we killed Barry, Bobby Whatever his name was we killed him. And now there's a second one ready to destroy us what better scenario Could you think of? and just like that another days gone past We actually have a lot of materials right now We have some shark meat as well that we can cook so we do that now It looks a little bit horrific, but I know people do eat shark. Let's have a little better lay down It looks like we've just straight-up fallen over can't fall asleep during daytime. Oh, okay. That's probably why now, can I do it? Yeah, there we go. Right I want to try the shark meets watch the sunrise oh, there's another there's another wreckage over there still haven't found ourselves a we haven't found ourselves an island, which is a little bit worrying So the three barrels I'm just about to miss out on which I'm little upset about and let's cook this look at it juicy, beautiful It's got rings on it kind of like a tree So you can chow old Barry was Bobby wherever his name was. You could tell how old Bobby was Wasn't too old poor thing This is the SSS Bobby. That's what we'll call this from now on and you are Bobby in the second! This one has some stairs. So I need to get up there before and before it sinks Well, geez, come on. Come on. Let's get up there before. It sinks. I got it. Yes i got metal ore as well Wow, okay That was a good find and now it's gone Bobby the second seems faster, which oh, geez. I need a drink There we go. Fixed got potatoes on deck as well. We got so many I just want to eat this I am real hungry right now. So I do want to eat it. Come on I've got inventory slot ready to go and look some juicy. It smells so good I just want to eat him just a little piece of him. He took many pieces of my raft So I took I took many pieces from him. Let this be a warning to you. You don't see the shark can't find you Oh, no Okay, you can just you just take that go on get out of here Consider it a gift That's broad friendship going towards what I eat your son or your best friend either one of them. Oh It feels it full. Oh, that's great. So our Bobby we did it I'm sorry your head had to come off to be part of the video, but um guys. Thank you for watching this I'm glad we finally got to slay Bobby and even though we restarted looks like we're doing pretty Good. I don't know how many more videos if any I'm gonna do on there So let me know if you enjoyed it by leaving a big fat like will be greatly appreciated Also if this happens to be the first video you see about me Please do consider subscribing to join TEAM TDM today for daily videos apart from that guys Thank you guys so much watching how an amazing day. You are. Awesome, and I'll see you next time. Goodbye