- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, the everyday astronaut. I'm here at Kennedy Space in their gorgeous rocket garden. I mean, look at this place. How awesome is this to talk to you guys about rocket pollution? Because there's no arguing that rockets aren't incredible pieces of machinery. I mean, forget the fact really the only way we have to put anything meaningful into orbit. But seeing and hearing a rocket launch is simply an unforgettable experience. We are in this. We are doing this! Yes! But as awesome as those what's not awesome is when you stop and think about just how much I mean, some I find it ironic who studies our atmosphere is okay with rockets polluting it so much. Or isn't it weird that Elon Musk, the same person who's pushing so much with Tesla also that runs basically And let's not forget about Jeff Bezos, who literally just pledged $10 billion to help combat climate change on a huge rocket that's almost the size of the Saturn V moon rocket that he's going to be I mean, isn't this all just So today, we're going to do We're going to figure actually comes out of the Then we'll look at how and different engines And then we're going to compare rockets to other forms of transportation, And we'll even figure if SpaceX's proposed transportation system here on Earth would actually replace jet liners. Would that be an improvement or a massive step backwards But that's not the only rockets have, is it? I mean, what happens when a or into the ground? That can't be good, right? Or what about space debris? I mean, we're hooking so Shouldn't we be talking about that too? Well, those will be upcoming video topics. But for today, we're on the environmental So by the end of this video, hopefully, we'll have a really healthy understanding of the environmental impact that rockets have on our atmosphere. We're gonna figure out whether is a really reckless thing to be doing. Or if in the grand scheme of things, it's not that big of a deal. And lastly, we'll look at the things that the aerospace industry is doing today to make rockets better for the future. Let's get started. (bright music) (upbeat music) - This is a question I get And quite frankly, it's And there's actually some but they can kind of tend to be misleading and they just barely skim the surface. So they don't really have the of all of the stuff to really So I figure it's time we get and finally really figure the emission of rocket So I've spent about five as much information as I can. I even ended up hiring a to help me do some additional research. While I continue to because, I mean, as far away as I am I'm even further away from But now I've spoken with experts. I've read research paper and I'm constantly having because I keep learning things because this is a really, really but actually a really interesting topic. So stick around to the end because I promise this is But right off the bat, I'm no doubt opening up a massive can of internet worms here. But hear me out. We're just gonna go and compare them to some other numbers so that you can form your I know somehow climate has kind of become a It honestly doesn't really But regardless of what like climate change, let's all agree we probably that's terribly polluted on a world that's uninhabitable. So with that in mind, please section clear of politics and over climate change and and just look at the raw And we're gonna use that on the impact that rockets And this video is really on what actually comes out of And we'll kind of gloss over ground operations et cetera, Not to ignore them and act but because that would kind of turn an already insanely long video And a lot of those to rockets either. This video will be a roller You'll be like, oh, that's not that bad. But oh, that's really bad back to. I guess it's actually not that But there's so many little side notes and interesting tidbits in this video. So we'll be going to tangent town. Sorry, not sorry. But because this video has here's the timestamps for those. There's also some quick that has some extra resources, methodology and the numbers for you to check out in the description as well. So get a drink, a notepad and 'cause we have lots of (bright upbeat music) So to start off, let's Humans won't be abandoning anytime too soon. There just simply isn't another form of propulsion feasible with As much as I want to believe magnetic super thrusters seems to be constantly telling me about. Until the lizard overlords bless us with access to those things, rockets are really all we've got. After all, rockets are simply is to extract as much kinetic energy out of chemical bonds as possible. And just look at a rocket launch. There's an unbelievable Okay, right off the bat, we have something to Notice when a rocket is taking off, there's a giant white cloud of That looks pretty nasty, right? And then watch as the rocket ascends, the cloud doesn't actually follow it. The exhaust will end up looking much more clear very quickly. What's going on here? Well, luckily that giant isn't actually smoke at all. It's almost entirely a And that's because many utilize a water deluge/sound to not only keep the launch pad intact, but it also dampens the So it doesn't actually damage itself. By dumping over a million liters of water during that initial launch sequence, most of that water is vaporized And in doing so, it absorbs So you'll notice that many they no longer have that thick cloud of smoke following them. Although some of them still do. But more on that in a second. So next, I'm going to that can come out of the We'll then organize and Then we'll show which And wrap it all up by each vehicle and each system produce based on their engines and Rockets can produce many But here's the list of usual suspects. You got CO2, water vapor, which will almost always bond nitrous oxide, chlorine, Now, I should note that I nitrous oxides instead or nitrogen oxides. So just know if you hear I kind of actually mean which is oxides of nitrogen. So just keep that in mind. There's many other trace gases, but they're literally insignificant. You can barely even measure them compared to these main ones. So we'll really just focus on these primary ones going forward instead of getting into the weeds with all these little tiny trace gases. Out of these main gases, the United States' Environmental considers nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and carbon monoxides as pollutants. Think of most of these things like the bad stuff that comes out of cars or like smog in a big city. Chlorine, alumina and nitrous oxides can actually destroy ozone and are therefore considered or ODS, and have been and restricted since 1996. You may have heard that term punch a hole in the ozone layer or something like that. It's that but that's just 'cause it's not a layer and you don't really punch holes in it. CO2, nitrogen oxides, soot and water vapor are greenhouse gases, or they act like one These are just elements than the current equilibrium This is called radiative forcing. And we'll get more into But simply put, if there's more of these our atmosphere will then have from the sun. It's just really that simple. Chlorine is actually considered by the EPA. And sulfuric compounds and nitrogen oxides can actually cause acid rain. And that's really bad and well, I guess pretty So now which rocket fuels Let's compare RP-1, hydrogen, methane, solid rocket fuel and even Going over these will pretty much cover the vast majority of rockets and which fuels they actually use. So let's start off with the And that's solid rocket boosters. You'll typically see solid rocket boosters on the first stage of rockets where high thrust really matters. Perhaps the most famous were those two giant of the space shuttle. They produced over 85% of the space shuttle's thrust at takeoff. But there's also two massive and mighty solid rocket Those huge solid rocket to leap off the pad in a real hurry. You also see SRBs attached of many rockets for a little extra oomph. Solid rocket boosters of hydrochloric acid ammonium perchlorates and the salt of perchloric which are powerful oxidizers. And then there's also These are then held together by a binder, by a bunch of words I know anywhere near right. These are usually hydroxyl known as HTPB or polybutadiene which makes the propellant Please don't make fun of me too much. I'm a terrible pronunciater. This means they emit soot or black carbon, nitrogen oxides, hydrogen Since we mentioned the space shuttle, let's take a look at its main engines. The RS-25, which ran on hydrogen, or more specifically or otherwise known as hydrolox. The Delta IV, the Ariane and the centaur upper Hydrogen is perhaps the When you burn hydrogen with oxygen, you literally just get water vapor. But there is a trace amount while the vehicle's in otherwise known as the troposphere as an after burning coming in contact with our air. Because literally all which is pretty much all to a certain degree which is primarily composed of nitrogen. Next, let's look at a which has been pretty prevalent throughout the entire and this is RP-1. But again, it's mixed with liquid oxygen, so it's known as kerolox. The first stage of the Saturn V used RP-1 as well as the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy. The core stage of the Atlas V, Soyuz and Rocket Lab's Electron RP-1 is basically just a which in itself is just a When burnt, RP-1 will water vapor, nitrous oxide, which again will mostly become CO2 and a little bit of sulfur compounds. The exhaust is kind of nasty, but it's not really all that different from what a normal internal Speaking of nasty, let's take a look at hypergolic fuels. Hypergolic fuels are those when the fuel and the with each other. This helps make rocket as you simplify the ignition sequence. They're also very stable which means you can and it will happily sit for long periods of time, which made hypergolic for Titan missiles and other missiles that need to be able to at the push of a button. But hypergolic fuels are also the abort motors for and Boeing's Starliner Orbital Maneuvering system as well. It's also very common in and long duration coast stages for all of these same reliable and stable. But hypergolic fuels include hydrazine or one of its relatives that I know I'm not going to pronounce the like monomethylhydrazine or which are extremely toxic. Breathe too much of either of those in and you'll likely not - [Announcer] Lung tissue is burned, blisters form and the causes us fixation. - It's mostly the biggest concern if you have unburned while you're trying to handle it. So perhaps handling the than actually burning it. However, when burned to RP-1, producing mostly sulfur containing compounds and a bit more nitrogen since nitrogen is a compound which is usually nitrogen tetroxide. Lastly, let's talk about the or when burnt with Three of the newest rockets coming online in the next couple years That SpaceX's Starship, Blue Origin's new Glenn's first stage and ULA's Vulcan's first stage as well. Methane is probably the next which makes sense since it's So when it's burnt, methane just becomes CO2 and water vapor and again, along with a Now this might be contrary I mean, it's a common thing or farts of cows is just methane and how bad of a greenhouse gas that is. Well, that's true. But that's because it's unburned. Methane in the atmosphere is a real powerful greenhouse gas. So it's actually better and split up into CO2 and H2O. Well, at least as far (bright upbeat music) So let's see some real data For this, let's look with a variety of different fuels. And we'll actually take a each rocket produces. Let's compare the Titan on hypergolic propellants, the Soyuz FG, which runs on RP-1 and has a hypergolic upper stage, the Atlas V N22, which has and RP-1 fueled main center core and a hydrogen powered upper stage and then the Falcon 9 which runs on RP-1. Then let's compare the Delta IV Heavy, which runs entirely on hydrogen, the Space Shuttle, which ran on hydrogen and two massive solid rocket boosters, the SLS or the Space Launch System that is basically a without the orbiter, and runs on to even bigger and a massive hydrogen tank And lastly, we'll look at Starship and the super heavy booster, which both run entirely on methane. Now you may have noticed a few First off, I chose these rockets that have flown or will fly humans well, except for the Delta IV Heavy, but you'll see why I in just a second. But also you'll notice covers pretty much all fuel choices. But I should note here, my numbers are pretty accurate. But even direct observation gets confusing because of how interacting with the ambient air. There's a lot of little things will almost immediately or how the heat of the exhaust turns atmospheric nitrogen Now because of all these variables, I've simplified their carbon monoxide and carbon which is quite normal. All other carbon sources and we've just ignored that some engines can produce. Now in general, we combine several sources and our own calculations to actually get a pretty darn accurate I guess we're probably And it seems like our numbers with some of the other is good enough for comparison, and at least relative purposes, when comparing all these rockets together. But do put a little small mental ish behind all these numbers, just in case. The hypergolic Titan then some water vapor, nitrous oxide, soot and sulfur. The Soyuz FG and Atlas V N22 some water vapor, soot and nitrous oxides. But because the Atlas V uses we see a big jump in chlorine and alumina. The Falcon 9 produces just about double what the Soyuz produces since it burns about twice as much fuel. It should be noted that the in the open cycle for its engines. This means there's a gas So you'll see much darker smoke coming out of the side of the engine since it has a lot less in the gas generator It's likely the majority of in the Falcon 9 exhaust trail Although all rocket engines in the main combustion chamber, for the right balance of heat So there's likely going to regardless of the cycle type, but just much more when Now if you're sitting and have no idea what I'm talking about, and you need a good rundown and the different types of engine cycles, be sure to watch my Raptor video because I break down and make them I think Okay, now back to our chart. The Delta IV Heavy is really cool because it produces zero over 600 tons of water it of course will produce in the lower atmosphere and from its ablative nozzles, which causes its exhaust to glow orange instead of the clear from the space shuttle's main engines. The space shuttle and it's the SLS mainly produce CO2, a lot of water vapor, a little soot, nitrous oxide and a whole because of those massive Lastly Starship will and water vapor purely and of course, it's gonna It should be noted quick that from what SpaceX published last year for their Starship But they were likely worst case scenarios and for a potentially much larger rocket, and our calculations are 2019 Starship design. But of course, just doesn't really tell the What about their payload capacity? This is a number that's going to vary drastically between vehicles. So for this, let's just look at their tons to low Earth orbit capability. So for the Titan II we get 3.5 tons. The Soyuz FG was seven. The Atlas V at 13. The Falcon 9 at 15.5 while being reused like it pretty much always does now. But it should be noted is a bit more at 22.8. The Delta IV Heavy at 29 tons. The space shuttle at 28 tons. The SLS quoted here is the And lastly, Starship will of this group at 100 tons. And now that we have all here's where the fun begins. We can really do some fun how much work each rocket performs compared to their emissions. So let's start off with their CO2 to low Earth orbit payload ratio. So that means the lower the number here, that's the less CO2 they're producing to actually be able to The Titan II was 10 tons to low Earth orbit. The Soyuz at 35, the Atlas V at 20, the Falcon 9 at 27 when the Delta IV Heavy at zero, the space shuttle at 16, SLS at six and Starship at 27. Next up let's see their water vapor to low Earth orbit payload ratio. So again, the lower the number here, the less water vapor they're to do the same amount of work. The Titan II produced four tons of H2O per ton of payload to LEO, the Soyuz FG and the Atlas the Falcon 9 is 10 tons when reused or seven when expendable, the Delta IV Heavy produces 22 tons, the space shuttle 35 tons, the SLS will produce 14 Now lastly, let's compare their Again, this was nitrogen oxides, alumina and chlorine to So again, the lower the number here, the less ozone it's going to All the rockets without produce nearly zero tons per ton to orbit, while the Atlas V N22 produces four tons, the space shuttle, 21.7 Now you might notice that the than the space shuttle to payload capacity, because the SLS has a much than the space shuttle. Now, this is mostly because that massive orbiter into orbit, which wasn't actually considered part of its payload capacity. And we're also only comparing which only has a small, much So things are actually pretty Rockets don't really seem to transport stuff, do they? There's an awful lot of per kilogram for every rocket really, but a purely hydrogen powered rocket. But there's a lot of notes here. Here we go. We're going to tangent town. Of course, putting something into orbit requires an unbelievable amount of energy. So as we go forward, keep that in mind. We're not talking about We're talking about 10 times faster than a bullet. Now, you also may have noticed when you expend a Falcon And you might be tempted it emits quite a bit when you try and reuse it. Well, this is a topic to talk about too much here because it's a huge, huge rabbit hole. But the manufacturing of for the environment But this is where I didn't into the weeds here because and steel is a whole different topic and is in no way exclusive to rockets. If we wanted to debate the on our planet, that's a that I don't think we really We're just focusing on the and what comes out of that flamey end. That being said, in the you're much better off reusing a rocket so you can amortize that of the manufacturing process and not just a single flight. I said I wouldn't get into a rabbit hole and here I am, in like the because we need actually how much the fleet of before we really knew the of an expendable rocket But one fun little note could potentially be a solution and CO2 emissions. In fact, Jeff Bezos, the founder paints a very interesting the future should look like. In May 2019. during a proposed Blue Moon lunar of using rockets to actually and heavy industry off Earth, which would then keep earth in the future. Now, I think this is actually and it has almost nothing Sorry. I keep doing this. But you should definitely because it has some But here's another cool note. A rocket running on hydrogen or methane can actually become mostly carbon neutral if the production of the fuels is powered by renewable energy. Unfortunately, most hydrogen by steam reforming natural gas, methane or coal gasification. When hydrogen is produced in this manner, it's not a very But hydrogen can be to extract it from water, although it's relatively inefficient. And you can actually create methane by just pulling carbon and adding it to hydrogen This means you can actually that's emitted from the rocket and turn it right back into rocket fuel for your next flight. Now, I know this sounds a That can't be right. I mean, isn't it going to take and that'll just create more emissions? Again, not if you run your fuel production off of renewable energy. This is something that as a cost effective way to not but it's also good practice necessary to get home from Mars. That's right. In order to get back from Mars, SpaceX will need to have So it'll probably make for them to utilize the sabatier process basically right away so they can become experts at it by the time humans will rely But it should be noted. If you're relying on solar it will require a lot of solar panels. And boy do I mean a lot. Mars' society founder and full blown Martian Robert Zubrin told Elon about how much solar it a single Starship, claiming the size of six to 10 football fields. To that, Elon said, &quot;So be it.&quot; (upbeat music) Now before we try and compare rockets to really anything else like jet liners, we should probably talk have different effects Now, because rockets burn their of the atmosphere, including the upper atmosphere and well even beyond that, their effects can last a lot longer, since they don't actually as quickly as down at sea level. And seeing as CO2, soot and water vapor are greenhouse gases, the longer they're in the to warm up our planet due to a process known as radiative forcing. Water vapor in the lower atmosphere cycles really quickly into clouds and rain and nature pretty much No problem. Although CO2 won't cycle as quickly or as easily as water vapor, it can eventually cycle by becoming delicious tree food. But when you put any of in the atmosphere, they tend Water vapor is actually greenhouse gas than CO2. You can kind of think of CO2 as thermostat and water vapor as the heater kind of. But regardless, CO2 from rockets isn't really that in the troposphere or lower atmosphere. But carbon, soot and alumina is what we should really be in the stratosphere instead So rockets that have say SRBs or a RP-1 will produce a fair amount And one study actually about 30 times more atmospheric heating or radiative forcing And it's actually a because when it comes to versus, say the troposphere, there's actually certain spots Researchers found that when that will make those condensation trails, which is the right mix of altitude, humidity and temperature, those frozen ice cloud that will actually end up trapping a surprising amount of One study published in February 2020 by a group of researchers found minor changes in jetliners altitude can have drastic changes But researchers all tend to to study this more to really the impact that stratosphere because honestly, it's all very confused. (bright upbeat music) So this is all starting I think it's time we actually and really get a sense especially when they're used And I know we've thrown already, a lot. And there really hasn't for these numbers. But, I just really wanted so you know exactly what when a rocket launches. So let's do a little comparison six very different vehicles. We're going to compare the three vehicles that can currently ferry astronauts to the International Space Station, which is the Falcon 9, the Atlas V N22 and the Soyuz. Then we'll add Starship as well, along with two really common airliners, the Boeing 747-8 and the Boeing 737-800. The reason I chose these they all carry passengers and even more fun, the Falcon 9, Soyuz and the booster of the actually run on virtually The Jets run on Jet-A jet fuel, which again is just a while the Rockets run on RP-1 which is an even higher refined kerosene. The reason I put Starship in this mix is mostly because A, it's freaking huge. And for now it represents the worst case scenario and B, SpaceX actually wants to use it as a point to point So we'll actually quote the Starship in two configurations: for the orbital spaceflight missions and also just Starship rapid transportation that with the airline industry someday. One more note here. We first calculated the worst as if they flew full of all of their fuel and had depleted all of their But it'd be a really bad flight And airliners only fill a little more than what's actually So that being said, we took as if their tanks were filled to the brim and then we divided that in half, since that's a much better representation of the overall average amount of fuel used by these jet liners on say, medium or long haul route. Which I should mention really, if we're comparing it to say Starship, we really should only be But I figured this was a And because we can between rockets and jet liners, let's just focus on the CO2 But we wanna keep in mind that the rockets that emit carbon or alumina like the Falcon 9, the that's definitely not a good thing. So just like we showed before: the Falcon 9 releases 425 the Atlas V, 259 tons, the Soyuz, 243 tons and Starship releases 2683 and the Starship alone Now compare that to a and 60 tons for the 737. But now remember, these only using half of their fuel per flight. So these numbers could some of the time, it'll probably But I figured this was of the average CO2 emissions And also, that can vary too, depending on how many But yeah, that's not So now how about passengers? The Falcon 9 can carry and a crew dragon capsule, the starliner on top of an Atlas V can The Soyuz and Soyuz Capsule Starship can carry up to 100 And then after they refuel those same 100 people off to the moon, or on really long trips off to Mars. For Starship point to point, But considering there is of pressurized payload capacity, let's just say 400 passengers could pretty easily be comfortable Now compare that to a 747 which can hold up to 416 passengers and only You'll realize 400 in a was being quite conservative. And lastly, the 737 can So now how about their CO2 per passenger? Well, here's where some of these rockets really aren't an ideal With the Falcon 9 at 106.25 the Atlas V at 64.75 per passenger and the Soyuz at 81 tons of But don't forget low Earth orbit and Dallas are very Now compare that to 26.83 with 100 people on board and you realize that we can actually make some to those per passenger numbers. And then just look at Starship with 400 people, it would come down to only 1.79 tons per passenger. That's actually not that bad. I compare that to a 747 and the 737 is king here at So Starship actually gets at least as far as per On certain longer haul routes it might be very comparable. Sure, in general, it could be over twice as bad But at least it's not two like some of the other rockets. But don't forget now with carbon capture, we could actually almost null out an entire And that's something you or Jet-A jet fuel, although synthetic jet But with continued improvements, could we ever get rockets to Now you might be tempted to only burn fuel for a few minutes, and then they coast in the could actually be a really Well, the problem lies in two main issues. One, a rocket has to counteract So just to get off the ground, it has to create at least before even being begins to move. This is called gravity drag. So imagine if a rocket has a The relative acceleration is only 0.2 g's because gravity is pulling If you gave that same rocket of 2.0, you'd essentially the amount of work because the relative on top of the one g This is something that planes don't really need to contend with. Their aerodynamic lift is what counters and overcomes gravity. Although this lift can the engines themselves any of their energy directly so planes can fly with a thrust Although some fighter jets can and do have thrust to weight ratio as beyond one. And that rules. The other issue between rocket engines and jet engines is engine efficiency. Chemical rocket engines, although some are can't really get much of specific impulse in a vacuum which is their measure of with X amount of fuel. This is where jet engines as their specific impulse is And they kind of get to cheat by using oxygen from the atmosphere, and also using the air as reaction mass. So a jet engine can just with the same amount of fuel. So despite a jet engine needing to really be able to that a rocket can do in just seven minutes of burning a rocket engine, a jet engine actually sits during the entire phase, because of its wings providing lift and the jet engines being Whereas the rocket will need in a very short period of time to do the same amount of work. I mean, just look at a rocket and a plane. A rocket is basically all and a plane is basically That pretty much tells the which is definitely why the Skylon hybrid rocket plane concept It's mixing the best of both worlds. While in the atmosphere, its from the air to perform an It uses wings wallets Once the atmosphere gets in that cycle to work or the wings, the engine switch over where it performs more like This would be a really cool concept that could potentially help bridge the gap between rockets and jet liners. I certainly need do an about Single Stage to Orbit vehicles and debate whether or not So standby as I think I need to redo. (bright upbeat music) So I think it's time we actually look at just how many launches and compare them to the in the commercial airline industry. In 2018, there were 114 which was actually the in almost 30 years. The majority of launches with the United States close making up the vast majority Now in that same year, there were 37, 800,000 commercial So that's 331,579 times more flights than there were rocket launches. CO2 emissions from all totalled 918 million tons of CO2. Now compare that to the 22,780 tons from the aerospace and you realize that we more rockets per year to That's 4,594,200 rocket launches a year or 12,586 launches per day. And that's assuming the same ratio of dirty solid rocket boosters, hypergolic or kerolox rather than this new trend we're seeing towards cleaner methalox Although in 2018, with China launching the and hypergolic rockets and drastically still, it might be actually outweigh the dirtier ones. Okay, so now we know what it'd fairly small rockets, like those from 2018 with Now, how many Starship launches per day would there need to be The answer 937 full stack or 3,512 Starship only point But hold on, let's pause and remember that we still actually that water vapor and CO2 more in order to actually But even if we find out they're worse than we previously thought, we'd still be launching an awful before it even begins to Now, believe it or not, the nitrogen oxides that can actually have a pretty bad effect on stratospheric ozone. In fact, coming back in for reentry can actually be just as bad So if a vehicle like Starship were to be flying 5000 times a year, it produced as much damage to the ozone as all meteorites during So if we did start to see Starship flying as often as an airliner, and nitrogen oxide emissions on ascent would certainly become that airliners don't really (bright upbeat music) And now I think it's time we since we've been using for CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions from the airline industry were only 2.4% of global CO2 emissions. So that means in 2018, the was only 0.0000059% of all CO2 emissions. In other words, there's Worrying about the current compared to the rest of would be like worrying about in a forest fire. There's much worse offenders that we should actually be focusing on. Maybe here's something we should actually be focusing on before 2-stroke internal combustion engines. Those small cheap engines chainsaws, lawn mowers and some jet skis. They only burn about 70% of the gas that you put into them cleanly. The rest actually becomes nitrous oxide and hydrocarbons. Tests found that an eco is actually a horrible polluter. Generating 23 times the carbon monoxide and nearly 300 times more or NMHCs than a Ford F-150 SVT Raptor. So to put that into perspective, the hydrocarbon emissions from with a 2-stroke leaf blower are about the same as from Florida to Portland, Maine in a 2011 Ford F-150 SVT Raptor. And as far as the regular old cars and light make up over 50% of the global CO2 emissions. So let's just pretend that Starship does actually end up as much as the entire airline And it doesn't reduce all we got to do is just by only 15% globally. Now forget semis, buses, don't touch any of those. Just passenger cars. It would actually offset Point to Point fleet launching And I'm gonna go ahead that by the time Starship point to point is actually flying consistently cars will have made a much in their total emissions. And if Elon Musk actually gets his way, the world will be transitioning sooner rather than later. And we're still not even close to talking about the biggest polluters. Again, if we're worried about there's a lot bigger fish to fry. I mean, rockets don't even or make a blip on the (bright upbeat music) So rockets are just a tiny little drop in the grand scheme bucket But that doesn't mean we should just give them a pass, right? I mean, shouldn't every industry So what steps can the to actually make tangible improvements? As far as each rocket goes, the most obvious thing to do is stop using solid rocket boosters. SRBs are very bad for our environment. They emit nasty toxic compounds, and they deplete ozone. Then we should probably and fossil fuel based fuels like RP-1. That would be another good step. Utilizing either methane or hydrogen could be more sustainable either by producing or by continuing that from the atmosphere and making methane. But if we go a step further, the industry should actually be utilizing closed cycle engines like the the full flow stage and the BE-4, which will and not pollute as much with a gas generator, especially when you're burning RP-1. Close cycle engines also tend to have a higher specific impulse, which means they can actually do more work with the same amount of fuel because it's kind of like Improving that is a total Win win. But perhaps the biggest thing by far would be to stop throwing rockets away. Again, as I mentioned briefly, the manufacturing of a and pollution itself. We didn't even really As a matter of fact, manufacturing of steel is a which produces about 8% But using steel might be a better choice than actually using carbon because you will produce in the production of that or in the autoclave when you cure it. Now, again, because the produces all of these emissions, when a rocket gets thrown we should be tacking on for the total output of the rocket. If a rocket gets reused over and over, you can spread out those over the lifetime of the rocket, which would greatly from the rocket more than any fuel change or engine choice ever really could. But as far as improving change engines and reuse them. It's honestly really that simple. And of course, these are all trends in the aerospace industry anyway. So really, it's a win win. Or perhaps we should all just # Team Trees. Sorry, I'm so late on this. But for real now is probably to bring up the rear and at teamtrees.org. Because whether or not, rockets are really that big of a deal for our air. No one can argue that trees (upbeat music) So to summarize. How bad are rockets for Well, compared to other each rocket that launches I mean, you probably simple packages via rockets. But then again, the cost keep that off the table anyway. But compared to even a small like the airline industry, rockets currently don't We'd need several orders to even begin to need to compared to other industries. So obviously, rockets aren't ideal. But for now, they're all we've got. And it's gonna be a before we need to worry about that they have on our air, at least compared to quite frankly, just about everything else. And not to mention that heavy industry off of Perhaps their mild emissions could end up being our And besides, if it weren't for rockets, we wouldn't have the observation and data collecting to actually monitor our planet well, and other worlds to about our place amongst the universe, and our effects on our own little planet. So what do you guys think? Do you think rockets are a terrible thing and we absolutely need to stop Do you think there's something to pay attention to and tweak and hope that we can make improvements on? Or do you think they're just compared to everything else? Let me know your thoughts I have some very special because this was a really hard one. And if it wasn't for people who helped me actually or Maryliz Bender and Ryan Chylinski from Cosmic Perspective some of those scenes and some of these I wouldn't have had such an awesome video. Or especially big thanks to Kennedy Space Centre to actually go out there and I mean, what a dream come true. How awesome was that? But of course, I still to my Patreon supporters. Guys, this one just about ruined me. And you were so patient in helping me figure out all these strange, of this topic. And you really gave me So I owe the biggest thank you to you for not only being patient but for also helping If this is something you wanna help do if you were sitting here wishing that you could contribute or maybe add your opinion on consider becoming a Patreon member. Well, you'll gain access our exclusive discord channel as well by going to Or if you want another fun consider going to We'll find awesome shirts like the full flow stage that's, I guess one of Elon And you can find other things or the pointy end up And don't forget there's also section where you can on some leftover inventory. And if you work in the aerospace industry, click on the link in the apparel section, and you'll be able to as my thank you to you for So keep up the good work. We're all counting on you. That's everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody. That's gonna do it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday astronaut. Bringing space down to (bright upbeat music)