- Ah yes. There are cars in our we think to ourselves, I'm That was my young voice. Still got one. Why? I'm not really sure, it's with like the weird roll cage and looked a little bit like a Plymouth, and it was exciting, okay? If you didn't have one of those pictures of Lotus in your bedroom I don't know what to tell you. I'm literally gonna put up a picture because I think everyone had in your life. It was kinda neat, it was silver. Nevermind. Anyway, we grew up and we with the little half roll to wanting a Miata, or you know, because price and we realize that that's Until, eventually, we after our first autocross event, and you're like, that is a really cool car going really, really fast, and What the hell is that? It's a Lotus, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Alex. Alex.fi on Instagram, and today we're gonna that truly is the definition A car that, when we were young, Because it was funky looking, we just didn't really know It was a really questionable time for us when we were young. A car that, no matter for some ungodly known I don't get it, and it and it makes me agitated I don't get it. Ladies and gentlemen, today about you wanting to own a Lotus Elise. And, if you're just jumping I'm Alex. And don't forget to because that would just be nice. If you're looking for or suspension, be sure to check us out at fitmentindustries.com. I really wonder how many times it's probably a couple two, three. Anyway, you can do it for your or otherwise, be sure to hit us up. You know what I'm saying? And if you have a Lotus be sure to add it to our gallery over at fitmentindustries.com/gallery, because we need more of them. Fit Bit Industries. Figment Industries. Figment Industries. Fitment Industries. Fitmentindustries.com, baby. Woo! The Lotus Elise arrive to this in 1996, but it was actually in 1993 by the British Now this is where it kind You see, Lotus follows a to that of Ferrari. A man by the name of Anthony and a couple others, a graduate begins racing and ends up for the local trial races. It was pretty much the only vehicle he had and there was not really many out there back in that time frame. But, over time, he began to in the way that suited his And in 1949, he modified an Austen 7 to the point of really pretty He just figured, at this point, it's mine. And he just called it the Lotus mark two. He didn't actually have a the previous one was an Austen 7. He just figured if he did that people would just assume that there was a generation before that and grandfathered it in. People in the 40's were different. As the 50's and 60's went on though, Chapman would found the and begins to produce cars to than feed his racing habit. It was nothing more than that were very similar in his own cars. And pretty much the that were extremely light, nimble, and focused on weight of the time. Chapman would build more than to just be another You see other cars come like the Elite, the Ilian, and more. I mean, all of the names Ilian name, lineage. It actually comes from different names within the family Now, Lotus would even pair like Ford for their Cortina, and had an essential engineering that would pair up with other up and even until the 2000's, to help them with their racing lineage. The Lotus name would then just like every other brand out there. With it being mostly lows for productions, but highs for the racing successes, which is, I mean, probably for Chapman, and it was kind of working. The cars weren't inherently because most of them did have quite a bit of reliability issue, because from somebody who had never in their entire life. Lotus would find some ground of the Esprit. The Espirit. The Esprite, depending on who you talk to. But ultimately get bought and sold like a child where nether But when the Elise was it was owned by Proton. It was a Malaysian car maker. The Elise was one of Lotus's and its attempt to go back to the cars of what it was known for. Essentially, just being slow horse power car. And instead of fighting against the European super cars that be. And while the car was especially in the first series, and wasn't introduced in the it did do a lot of good to the Lotus's introduction By 2004, Lotus finally and got their car across the water, into the hands of us. Us. Do I talk with my hands? Yes. I think there's a dance that people do now with the hand thing. It was on TikTok. I won't talk about TikTok. 2005 was a good year. The market was booming, to go to Skate Nation by myself. And the Toyota Elise was sold commercially in the United States. Besides the fact that the could get melted on the inside, that's a real thing. It was a pretty good car. I mean, it was one of the cars that people in the United States were because it was so opposite I mean, it was powered by 1.8 liter that put out around 190 horsepower. There were a couple other but it was ultimately a pretty good car. It had like a Yamaha designed engine, and it was truly something that came out of a prototype book to Britain. That whole Yamaha thing You see, Lotus's parts and pieces were sometimes pieced together to help keep the Lotus cost down. And, eventually, Lotus would learn that it really needed to get its engine and transmission from Toyota. It was a small British a decent wheel base, and A 4.9, zero to 60 isn't bad either when you consider it as well. I mean, it was pretty And especially with how they people really enjoyed how this car felt. Because of the motor it actually felt a little with the engine sitting In 2008, the Elise would You get the normal Elise, an SC, you could also get the super charger, you get a sport package. The super charger was actually with 220 horsepower coming out of a car that weighs like 1900 pounds. It was pretty nuts. And while the car only versus its predecessor, did well enough for people versus the early models. Especially if you're looking to find a $30000 auto cross toy. The later in the years you can get with the Elise, the better. If you can snag one that's Even though you can take and super charge it if you really want to. The unfortunately thing here though, is that Lotus Elise was from the United States. And the car manufacturer from the United States Government of national highway It's really good that they made whatever it is. Because I couldn't say that three times. You see, the Elise failed the little bumper to headlight regulation, but Lotus pinky promised it But by then, they had a with seat belts, and airbags, and pretty much everything was trying to make safe for the cars, and Lotus just didn't They ended up not getting it sorted out, and then they got the old boot-skee, like an angry teenager at 16 It just wasn't a good time. And now, they're planning to come back with the 400, but that's an It might've been a good thing, because the series three Lotus Elise kind of looked a bit and got oddly soft in the Really, when we think about a Lotus Elise, almost everyone thinks I mean, just look at it. It's so much angrier. Look the three. It looks too happy. It looks too much like a Miata. Only one Miata can can ever exist, and that's a Miata. But we're not here to of this damn car. If you want that, get yourself They still have those, and be Oh no, not here. We're here to talk about you wanting to own one of these bad boys. So you want a Lotus Elise? Well, set down your favorite traffic cone and grab your favorite icy hot patch, because today we're gonna talk about what it's like to own one If you're gonna own a Lotus Elise, there's a couple two, three things that you're gonna wanna know before hand. I don't know what it is about this car or why it changes as much as it does, but the Lotus Elise, and for some reason is always $30000. Two, the cars can require or a few inches off the noggin, depending on how tall you are. The cockpit isn't entirely forgiving which can leave you loving the exterior but not so much driving it or autocross event. They really are a fun car, but there's not a whole lot to them. And once you actually get you'll see exactly what From a reliability stand point, they've done much better considering Lotus's used to be known for sitting on jack stands a And that is a lot to do with Toyota on a lot and pieces of the car. You see, when you look at the Lotus Elise, you're actually looking at a Toyota motor, a Toyota transmission, a And, overall, it's just just slightly neater, and some funky tail lights. Which makes a lot of people I mean, I was driving behind because you never see People will give you flak of the car. Essentially, the fact that it is a lot of Toyota pieces. But it does change the fact of a track car. They look fantastic as show car too, if that's what you're looking to do. But it's not really that typical. We would say it's off meta Especially if you can source the parts. Modifications can be quite and dirt cheap in others, you're essentially looking at. The Toyota bits and pieces, for example, can be played around it's not really that expensive. Most people end up super and that's just how you do things. But for the rest of the car, it can get a little bit pricier, especially if it's Lotus only parts. I mean, in terms of wheels, you're probably looking on some function style Bridgestone Potenza, that's a great budget for autocross, and Federals with most HPD set ups being on Michelin's if you're looking for a longer track time. Suspension would be Bilstein coil over, so you can tighten up the car The Lotus Elise is kind and even if you look at and all the other Lotus line up cars, you'll see a lot of people You'll see most people, doing autocross things. As they start to modify they get into HPD, Road You really don't seem them There's a army green here in Wisconsin with some bronze wheels. Looks really freaking cool. Pretty cool looking car. And there's a couple other ones out there that are even on Evoras that have a full wide body which is a really cool car as well. But they're just a unique and meant to be a light And, for some reason, they never seem to be blown up, and for every other part of the reason, you can pick one up for $30000 The biggest issue with Lotus Elise's is that it doesn't have two backseats. And the fact that the I mean, everything about the seats, oh yeah, makes your back hurt. But what do you think Let us know in the comments section below. And, of course, if you're tired, or suspension, be sure to hit us up over at fitmentindustries.com. And if you have a Lotus cause we really only have like two, and it'd be pretty cool You can do that over at I'm Alex from Fitment Industries. Let us know what you want We will see you later, peace.