So many a time you can only second guess your if someone loves you for real. They can say they actually telling the truth? I'm gonna be genuinely love you, to enable you at least ulterior motives as opposed to someone and would like to see it grow. So if you then please by all means keep watching because Welcome back, my name is Jessica, I'm Thank you so much for joining me on my channel. If if this is the first time we're meeting, oh! channel I cover a lot of stuff but predominantly forget to subscribe if this is your kind of notifications so you get a notification every me as that helps with the youtube algorithm and So now that we've gotten that out of the way, I'm that women do when they genuinely like you. This to be seen by your friends and family. Now there's will not want to come home to meet your friends, that should be like the biggest red flag was one occasion where I felt quite disrespected I said to him that I'm nobody's secret and if was nothing I wanted to do with him, and he took and this was definitely not a guy that I was And so I'm just saying that when someone they open up their circles to you, you get to meet people that matter in their life. And so if you're it's a red flag and you need to stay away from she lets you into her inner circle. Number two. happiness. Now love is all about compromise and you know play their part, bend over backwards when be as genuine as they want you to be. Yes they're to be with, live with, because things are gonna case, her way, to keep the relationship going. compromise, someone who's not willing to and do more to make and see you happy, then When a woman genuinely loves you, she's ready to I mean of course, there are deal breakers for like to compromise on and yet there However, I'm not even talking about that. I mean kinky stuff that she does not enjoy, she has she will never do it, and so you guys will have to I mean apart from those things that are really difficult to change, most things should be up for you can agree on what you should and should not genuinely loves you, she will consciously make cares about your loved ones, all right. So it's your brother, your mother, your father, someone bothered about it at all; like does not care, have conversations because she's so disconnected loves you she actually puts in a lot of effort bother you, become things that bother her, right, who doesn't make your worries hers, who does not want to be settling with a woman like that, and her immediate family and everybody else that I'm not saying that when you come together else's business but your own. I'm just saying about the people in your extended family and inaction affect you and your relationship. So for example, all I'm trying to flow, you know. There's a flow maybe you like to wake up at 6am and go to the sleep in a little bit. I'm just saying that take this couple thing really seriously, you both can thrive. So for instance if he likes &quot;hey babe I'll meet you up at the gym and then or if you realize that let's say you live in little later, you like to sleep a little earlier, instead of sleeping at 11 pm I'll sleep at 9 pm day ends.&quot; You know what I mean. So in trying to sort of moving in synchrony, you can tell that out for you and try to fit into your life as you of your accomplishments. Now there are lots of when you were already a self-made man or maybe she with you as you started to progress through met you in, all I'm trying to say is, if a woman she becomes your biggest supporter, and indeed who tries to bring you down. She's proud of your she makes you realize that she will always be a supportive partner who actually cherishes yo you know you are the best thing that ever you should really be looking out for because down as you go through life's challenges fights for you as a couple and this shines through nice balance where both your needs and hers will where she begins to seek out activities, events, couples as opposed to something that she begin to do same. In that way, you grow flourishes a whole lot more. This does not it simply means that she tweaks them a little bit as a couple. And finally she listens to you pays attention. Now a lot of women are guilty than we listen, but if a woman genuinely everything you say. Either to make a mental note or merely just to be able to let you feel and you up at night; what you're concerned about, who's attentive to your needs, you just may have things, then she genuinely loves you and she's to the next level. I think this conversation was forget to smash the like button, subscribe if you you get a notification every single time i post.