The forest is always like an For me, it feels like I'm a pupil All the subjects are here. I'm learning And very much psychology and self-knowledge. I've had so much climate anxiety. I was a naive, romantic, animal-loving girl. But I was schooled and educated into - - that this was naive and childish. And start to look at inter-human And I think this brought on me I was forced into something that was too narrow. It was already decided for me, the dreams. It had to do with romantic Maybe travels. Maybe fulfilling It's just so many woodpeckers. In Sweden, if you're depressed, one of the So I started to walk the forests. In my paths I found little funny sticks. For me it was explosively nice to be - - alone, left out in the woods, - or therapist or anybody telling me I just picked up things, They said: &quot;Go out in the forest, And I went out, but didn't return. But it doesn't matter because I feel well. Why do you call your notebooks &quot;facebook&quot;? Well, isn't facebook something like a And friends? With pictures? So, it's the same. I keep it to myself. And I remember much more - paint a little bit and let the And I think facebook is like a story So, this is it. I didn't give the rights away And someone asked me once: And I thought: &quot;No, I don't.&quot; Let's have one. &quot;Are you on facebook?&quot; I just love your art - - but I guess we're here today Could we start maybe with Like, the history of this forest. Well, my grandfather listened to So he killed all leaf trees and planted And my mother's generation In a monetary manner. She clearcut and planted again And now comes the bill. To my generation It's very fragile to insect attacks, so - - here, the forest has been And they're slowly killing all the big spruce. The forest is starting to weaken and I could hear big spruces, It was like: &quot;Pop, pop, pop.&quot; And everything turned green. And it was very dry. I was so scared. Everything I love dies. They were supposed to live And they all started to die before me. I started to talk with biologists &quot;Trees are dying. Not the forest.&quot; &quot;This is the way the forest &quot;It creates a lot of dead wood And it was like, the poet in me The nature scientist person in me accepted it. And I could see directly other species coming. But the poet in me wasn't satisfied. I cried all the time. But I started That I found in weird places like ditches or - - where electricity wires go, And I started to just move them. This one needs to go in deep. - Are you planting a birch? I want to take advantage After my 100th replanted tree Because I was so tired, physically. After my 300th tree I discovered Like he was doing some kind of research. Of a fool trying to rescue At my 800th tree I started to feel some kind of - - strength. And hope. I was eager to wake up in the morning. They all started to live and wanted to live. And it was really nice. I'm actually saving something. In this time, where the science is showing - this has turned out much better Of all these almost 2200 trees now - - I've counted 17 that died. So I've made something really good, We can go out and measure With our idea of knowledge. We could also, I would love - people who have studied this. It would be really great to see, Is it good or not? What happened here is that - - we had a major invasion of bark beetle. And then we replaced those trees with this. So you have linden and rowan and - - alder and every ... ash. Even a wild apple tree. Hazel ... And we don't really know I mean, the forest is always a process. What's really interesting here is that - - you've left the dead wood. In most forests they are removed, And then the result of the The disturbance will produce a But if we remove this, - a full scale function in I have a question. One disturbance If we just left it there would be a natural But we've added another disturbance So it's not actually a natural What do you think about this disturbance? I think you've introduced species that might've Like the linden. It's not always the goal to reduce human That's interesting. We need this kind of experiment. And it's not like you're bringing If you would do that I would A lot of foresters are looking for new tree species. &quot;What other specie could we introduce I think that's the most dangerous way to go. THAT WAY - Maybe this isn't your most advanced piece. So let's go that way. Ok, see you guys. - This one was ... - You were a bit negative ... You said: &quot;It's not going to Two and a half years ago. The same bark beetle disaster He answered it the conventional way. And I think you don't have to be a - it's quite a different nature. When we're standing here we The whole micro climate is different. Compared to your forest, this is more There are no trees. We have a completely different vegetation now. We have a pioneer vegetation. Your forest is still a forest. As you have a visiting center here - - people might come here for your art. But maybe they leave with the forest. THESE THOUGHTS ARE SO BIG, SO WILD I felt many times desperation and panic. What are we going to do? This problem But can you abandon someone - - who helped you when you Now this is broken, and I'm not anymore. I think, in so many positions we find ourselves - - in educations or different professions - - and especially in the ownership of forests - - where there's a story and - and we can't be kind. I think it's one of the reasons Because we don't get space - where we can actually be kind. I think it's one of the nice things with humans. We're really kind if we get the chance. Thank you so much for watching this film. My name is Mattias and - and the founder of Campfire Stories. Campfire Stories is a That means the only way we - through the support from So please consider joining us Thank you so much.