Oh boy, where to start? You're portraying tank battles. Maybe you ought to get your hands on some real World War II tanks. Hi, I am John McManus. I am a professor of military history. I've written 15 books, most of which have something including three books about the Battle of Normandy and D-Day. Today, we're going to look at World War II battles and judge how real they are. First of all, there's way too much flame. There are battleships, and yes, maybe they might've been part of the softening up of Hacksaw Ridge, but the way that's portrayed here, I think is not quite authentic in the sense of these infantry soldiers all standing around out in the open watching the bombardment. They would've been Hacksaw Ridge itself is portrayed as being a little taller It's true they used rope but more commonly, they just used ladders, because it wasn't quite as high up as is portrayed in this film. One thing that's very realistic is the way they're portrayed They're grabbing their hands vertically rather than horizontally, as you might in order You would never do the latter, because the guy near you So you would always grasp the rope ladder to the sides like that, and that's really well done. So the problem with Hacksaw Ridge is there wasn't any other like from behind. Because Hacksaw is just one of a network of these kinds of places, right in the core of Okinawa, that the Americans are So you really kind of had to get up there in a frontal way as they convey. Get out of the way! Move! There certainly was hand-to-hand fighting. A lot of it that happens at Hacksaw Ridge. Many Japanese who are sort of outflanked or find themselves among the Americans would've done exactly that. There's many instances in the Pacific War when you have Americans rolling around on the and saying &quot;Get out of the way so I can shoot this guy.&quot; Send in a weapons team to flank them! Vaughn wants to flank that pillbox, because where he is, and the other guys, is right in its cone of fire. So what I've always thought is the bazooka team that in order to be their best But in any kind of small-unit engagement, you want to flank your enemy because that's where he's One of the things the Americans found out, among the many unpleasant were just how many of these kind of pillbox-style Now many of them were like caves, almost like raised caves so that one would've the way it's portrayed there. I don't know why you'd throw You really want to explode a fragmentation grenade there. One thing that's dead on, you'll notice Vince Vaughn, the sergeant, when he sees one of his he immediately wants somebody because that's really You've got to keep that thing in action. And the way they portray the and the way it was used with two guys, it's exactly the way you would've used it. I would rate it about an 8. Mixed emotions about this scene. I love the intensity of it. Bombs away. What he's looking through there is called the Norden bombsight, and it was said to be like the most cutting-edge bombsight technology in the world at that point. It was this apparently super that the Americans had and no one else. Well, as it turned out, the but the Norden bombsight was So any bombardier like you see in the clip would've been hunched trying to line up exactly when he was supposed to drop the bombs. The bombardier in a typical B-17 during the actual bomb run, You now have open bomb bay doors with armed bombs in your bomb bay and the bombardier, at any second, flak can come up, perhaps get in your bomb bay, if they're lucky at the shot, and you're just gone. When they drop the bombs at that point, you'll notice that the other planes are taking the same cue, and they dropped the bombs And I really like that this clip because it really tracks with a lot of the photographic evidence that you see the time, of sticks, of bombs, going and then exploding, as you see on the ground there. And that was this kind of for a major raid like this. They hold their fire, and that was sort of the sort of unspoken which wasn't always adhered to, was that once a guy hit the silk, once he is out there in a parachute, you did not shoot at him This was seen as really, But believe me, plenty either by intention or not. In this case, it's portrayed that they're deliberately After the war, it is established according to the rules you are not allowed to shoot at someone who had bailed out from a dying aircraft and was in his parachute. So overall, I think it's amazing. I would give it a 9 out of 10. Yeah, I think this really portrays the sort of deadliness of those initial moments at Iwo Jima and how they show how vulnerable they are at the waterline. You see that little gun team there that's trying to get and they just end up in this machine gun position's kill zone. The way the machine guns are camouflaged, the way they are fortified in there, I think is dead on. Two Marines trying to push a Jeep, and it just looks miserable, doesn't it? That is directly taken from a photograph of the Battle of Iwo Jima. Volcanic ash soil and all So it's easy for a vehicle The volcanic ash soil of Iwo Jima, I don't know how they did Can you imagine trying to dig into that? The soil was so ashy that it was hard to keep it stable enough in order to have a with if you're digging into clay or mud or whatever it would be, or dirt. It would just sort of backfill in and you'd just be in Any aircraft that's strafing is probably using its main machine guns or sometimes, in some cases, rockets, to come in on some kind of position they've identified and just annihilate it with that weaponry the best they can. Those two aircraft you see heading towards Mount Suribachi, they're not hanging around. You see the tracer rounds it's really well done. The smoke that obscures it for a while, I just think that's extremely well done. The guy drops the grenade, and he rolls over on the other side, in the other direction and that's exactly the way Generally, the American grenades had about a 3 1/2-to-4 1/2-second fuse. You would've been taught count off most of that, and then toss it in and I'm rating this one a 10 out of 10, because I just really like the feel and look of the position, and what a bloodbath this whole thing is. I think is very well portrayed. We're getting a sense right there of some of the tension between those who were who wanted to stop any American He knows the Americans they're going to get ashore, and he knows really what he has to do is bleed them the best he can. So what he wants is for them to get ashore into his kill zone and then do maximum damage The Japanese, at this point in the war, are just laying hands on any There isn't too much It's whatever artillery pieces and small-caliber guns So you'll notice the heavier pieces tend to be a little bit more or some sort of dugout The smaller pieces are more because it's been harder to but it also might make it especially to shoot at or whatever else would be. You'd probably get more accurate fire. Reverse slope defense was and elsewhere at this point in the war. There's a tendency for the to think that once they get to some sort of peak or that they've captured the position. But what was very common is that the Japanese are really, with their tunnels and whatever else, very, very entrenched so you would be taking just as much fire. I do think that it is of their tunnels especially, the kind of fortified positions they had. Japanese have 17 miles of Be the issue during the battle of Iwo Jima is the Americans having to constantly just sort of back-clear with tunnels and little that are in places that you never spotted the first time you went through. You see the Japanese Nambu machine guns, and they're exactly Snapping off a few rounds, and then you'll see like a and then snapping off more rounds, especially as you see targets. I think that part of the So in one part of the clip, you see really bad fire the machine gunner just leaning You almost certainly wouldn't have done that as a machine gunner, because you know, you would As the Americans are fighting one pattern you're seeing is more and more the use of flames. The actual flamethrower teams that you've got as portrayed here, all of that is a huge part of the battle, so I'm glad that they included that. There's so much footage and this is color footage, that shows exactly that kind of scenario. I'm giving it a 9 out of 10. What makes &quot;Flags of our Fathers&quot; and &quot;Letters of Iwo I don't know any other that sort of portrays both that has the sort of companion piece that you can watch both of them and you can really get a good sense of what that battle was What are called the LVTs, which they really did use, they come out of these called LSTs, Landing Ship, Tank. And you see they go down that ramp, and then they splash into the water, and the water comes up Dead-on right. So what happens at Peleliu, there's a colonel there on the who is the main commander, and he has this concept He's going to resist to some but he's got all kinds of caves and excellent, really well-concealed, prepared-by-nature-type fighting positions for himself on Peleliu. So yes, his main objective is he's going to bleed the but he also has enough combat power to resist at the waterline as well. When there's that much anybody standing up is really vulnerable, so people tend to go to ground. That's a 60 mm mortar, and you can see like the mortar sight, how important that is, how they would've carried and then set it up, and then you could see the shells as they put down the tube there. The mortar explosions, not a lot of flames, nothing like that. It's exactly the kind of Spread out, get moving! Those grenade launchers were used a lot, especially in this kind of circumstance where you've got this that you can't always get Got an M1 Garand rifle, you would take the clip you'd put a special dummy bullet in there, you would fix the sort of That then would provide the Of course, you better remember to take the live rounds out of there, because if you don't, you're going to have right in front of you. I would rate these a 9 out of 10. I mean, it's really Bombs away! OK, where to begin? This one's just so bad. I'm sorry. I mean, way too much destruction. The Doolittle Raiders, in total, dropped 16 tons of bombs on Japan. It was, relatively speaking, a pinprick. Not that it's pleasant to be under 16 tons of bombs, of course, but it didn't inflict anywhere The B-25 was supposed to drop anywhere from 7,000 to 8,000-plus-whatever feet, and it looks like they're when they're dropping their bombs here. So in this raid, by the way, I don't think they're quite that low. You know, they're low enough and to drop on their targets and whatever, but I think not quite as That's the kind of artillery they would've had there, and they're manipulating it You know, a couple people on the crew trying to find targets up there, shoot at whatever they can. The problem is that the raid catches them mostly off guard. It's portrayed as being and way too accurate. The Japanese would've wished that their antiaircraft fire was so effective against Pilot: Oh God, engine one's dead. They seem to portray that one of the planes which is just 100% inaccurate. All of them got across the water, most of them to China, Many of them, of course, were captured, of course, That's a different matter. What bothers me about it is that these are not hard things to find out. The Doolittle raid is really famous. Most of the veterans lived and there's great books about it. It wouldn't have been to really explore it and try and tell it a little bit more accurately. Unfortunately, that's and it kind of makes for But in terms of is it I'm giving this one a 4. Oh boy, where to start? You're portraying tank battles. Maybe you ought to get your hands on some real World War II and sort of end-of-war and M47 Pattons on the German side. It's so poorly portrayed. The way the tanks are moving, the way their formations are so linear and just wrong on so many levels. Lieutenant, keep those grenades coming. Well, they try to portray some of the terrain challenges the trees and forests and some of the mud, but even that doesn't quite look right. When you know the Ardennes Forest, where a lot of the Battle trees are spaced out a little too far, rather than being fir forests, which would be quite limiting to vehicles. The infantry is really quite vulnerable in these sort of ditches that they're in. But a tank ramming, it's pretty rare. And for the Germans, it because you don't want to You want to use your gunnery advantage, and you want to nail them at distance, because you've got You could hide from a tank, because the line of vision from a tank was not very good for the driver. It's basically like a vision block that you've got in front of you, so you didn't have too So anything you had rolled past, you probably weren't going to see. And that's why it was really important to have a lot of infantry who could act as your Why aren't there any German I mean, there's that, too. Then it looks so inauthentic. I'm going to give it a 3 out of 10. I'll admit, this movie is so maybe that colors my So the Battle of Mount Austen is the sort of climax When the 25th Infantry Division is assigned to take a that looks over the airfield, that's the key objective We want to make sure the Japanese don't so they can lob artillery at the airfield. The stabbing you see at the beginning, that is, that would've Bayonet woundings, were really uncommon. You might have it, under fixed to the end of your rifle. It's possible, because if you expected that kind of close The Japanese are more vulnerable here than they are elsewhere, because they're not in fixed because they've lost most and hills that comprise Mount Austen. So you're getting sort of the back end and sort of the Japanese rear areas here is what you're looking at because it's basically And Guadalcanal had a lot Kunai grass had these sharp edges. You'd be quite vulnerable to getting these little almost like paper cuts, but it's grass cuts, and And it was just one of the many things that led to the just a miserable You've got something quite accurate in that you've got a fire support element with those guys firing their rifles at the sort of ridges and the distance, and then the other group is trying to maneuver forward. So that's fire and maneuver What I think is a little questionable is that lieutenant has sent which is exactly you would've done, but he's lost both of them, but he still decides to just go forward with this complete frontal attack. I think more likely, you to figure out where the Japanese were, where those riflemen were, before you sent your I give it a 9 out of 10. These two clips definitely represent what is a really good especially in the Battle of Guadalcanal, which tends to get overlooked. Adam Beach is playing They're using specific to represent military concepts or words, and that would've been relayed via the radio, like you see there. They might've called That was one of the many, many valuable aspects of the code talkers. They're portrayed here as being sort of like forward That wasn't always the role A lot of times it was just back-and-forth among headquarters, in order to confuse the Japanese. I like that part of the Japanese interception experts really confounded by this. By this point in the war, Saipan 1944, they were likely to have that there were Native speaking in their own languages It didn't mean he could Target reference. And they're designed to kill other ships, other battleships, other That's really what they're there to do. But they have the capability of providing those of us on the ground with a lot of really In this case, Nicolas are portrayed as being It's called danger close, In other words, if you're too close to where the shells are you're probably going to take I'll give it a 7 out of 10. I like that the clip shows the incredible contributions that the code talkers were. I think it's a hard and I think they've done This is like saying the Beatles are your favorite band, I guess, but my favorite World War II movie is &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot; I think it really has been tremendously influential on subsequent war films. I think it tries to realistically as you possibly can, without being somehow It's heart is incredibly with wanting to get front and center and portray what combat was like for American soldiers in And I think there's no other movie that can line up as well, arguably, in what its objective probably was than &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot; Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this, why for more World War II movie breakdowns?