If you were ever skeptical of John F. Kennedy's the story that could change your mind. convincing of all JFK conspiracy theories. tons of it that may surprise even our most bit about the motive. Why would the CIA, perhaps government, want to take out their own President. that would disgrace America forever more. had to be a very, very big reason to go through So, we'll start our story in Cuba, Varadero capital of Havana. The French journalist Jean of the summer residence of the Cuban leader, ridiculous lengths to try and assassinate. At about 1.30 pm, Cuban time, the phone rang. had tried to assassinate John F. Kennedy. a lot about Kennedy before they received that was reassured by how JFK and the Soviet Union along so well, and that they were possibly At one point, Castro told Daniel, "I know can talk with. I have gotten this impression Castro told him that he was looking forward secured a second term. This was a man the So, when news outlets confirmed that Kennedy very solemn. Castro turned to him and said, to change." talks with the Soviet Union, that's for more years. general, Lyman Lemnitzer, who was the chairman plan to the Secretary of Defense, a man JFK Like many of the people working in the highest Lemnitzer wanted to invade Cuba. Nonetheless, so, Lemnitzer introduced Operation Northwoods the kind of people that surrounded Kennedy. false flag operation, a fabricated event, offensive response. Lemnitzer wanted to attack Cubans. Among the bullets and bombs, US intelligence about this vicious attack on innocent Americans. close to the attacks in Cuban military uniforms. There would be fires set, aircrafts burned, later even funerals for the mock victims. lists in all the biggest newspapers, along to start an invasion of Cuba. could develop a Communist Cuba terror campaign and even Washington." He said there would "widely publicized." They wanted to "explode" spots." US citizens would be outraged, and, commie terrorist bastardos. As crazy as this was not unusual during the Cold War. board with the plan and the CIA was firing the evil Communists had to be stopped at any or encouraged human rights abuses all over This was the political environment JFK entered the JFK assassination conspiracy theory, you in the US military and intelligence would telling Lemnitzer and other key advisors that future that would "justify and make desirable action" in Cuba. This is all well-documented, JFK was isolated in his own government, according support among many of his advisors after the sent 1,400 Cuban exiles they'd trained into one with different ideas about how to carry during the Eisenhower administration before similar plans during his term, at the end was told. the Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista in 1959. The CIA now wanted to throw Castro out, just to leaders in Iran and Guatemala, with plenty done, Cuban exiles were trained by the US involvement was supposed to be kept secret, The whole thing was a total disaster. Castro's Kennedy later told friends that the Bay of him had thought he'd be drawn into sending and Ken O'Donnell, "They were sure I'd believe a new President like me wouldn't out all wrong." advised him, and especially the CIA director after his death that the plan was always to "permit the enterprise to fail." Instead, foods and medicine in exchange for the prisoners and while JFK gave the green light on assassination back the hawks around him that kept telling Then there was Vietnam. The US had been active Richard Nixon said, "If the French withdrew, now by putting our own boys in." The CIA Military Mission (SMM), directing paramilitary with propaganda. The US even considered using French under Operation Vulture. 500 Special Forces troops and military advisors Vietnam. A year later, close to 11,000 American and, of course, Kennedy approved that. The South East Asia. So, under JFK, US presence start thinking differently about Vietnam. combat troops into Vietnam. As the Pentagon in advisors and let the CIA do what it needed capable of independent combat." of pages of top-secret Department of Defense released in 1971 and showed the American public which would include secret campaigns in Vietnam, thousands of dead civilians. The CIA was out had JFK not been taken out. That's what Daniel Ellsberg, the military analyst and been unsure about where Kennedy had stood to him, sending in more men yet remaining he asked JFK's brother, Robert Kennedy (RFK), to be assassinated (1968), too, told him that of every one of his top military and civilian Years later, Ellsberg recorded this conversation was asked why his brother wouldn't send we already were there in 1951! We saw what brother was determined, determined to never JFK knew what would happen partly because who he'd sent on a fact-finding mission and told JFK that getting into a war in Vietnam security action memorandum 217, which forbade from going into South Vietnam without State JFK told Mansfield he was thinking about a wait. His actual words were, "But I can't If he tried before, he'd be criticized by vote. we mentioned earlier, one of the most unpopular Presidents in history. appeaser, but I don't care." in a meeting in Honolulu when he told them "withdrawn from South Vietnam by the end them to draw up concrete plans. It seems the After JFK's death, those combat troops were and, subsequently, the media, said there'd in the Gulf of Tonkin. manipulated, and, at worst, totally contrived. Vietnam. The "Tonkin Gulf Resolution" unlimited power to do whatever he wanted in exercised by both Lyndon B. Johnson and later, Almost 200 documents that the National Security show us that Congress was misled. We won't said and what happened were two very different was enough to make war with Vietnam look justifiable. everything. In July 1993, a Canadian newspaper 21 secret letters that were written between about mountains and lakes and other beautiful weapons and the destruction of the world. to the mythological Noah's Ark, saying they but in the bigger scheme of things, they were thing. They did not want to blow the whole analogy, adding, "Whatever our differences, urgent, if not more urgent, than our collaboration They might have been on friendly terms in Cuban Missile Crisis. After the Americans Soviets deployed ballistic missiles in Cuba. next is generally thought to be the closest both countries knowing that many, many millions In the middle of the crisis, JFK was under would mean a full scale nuclear war. RFK, the Russian Ambassador, Anatoly Dobrynin, are under pressure from our military to use pass this message to Khrushchev through "unofficial is against any action against Cuba, "an his will."...Against his will...This is JFK knew when people such as General Curtis it, they were deadly serious. In that particular what do you think the reprisal would be?" Dave Powers, "Can you imagine LeMay saying one advantage in their favor. If we listen of us will be alive later to tell them they JFK and Khrushchev came to an agreement. Khrushchev did the same in Europe, but that was done of confidence in Russia. He was seen as a obliteration. JFK later told the historian Arthur Meier They wanted me to do this." They were also got even madder when he made his commencement on June 10, 1963. He started the speech by to focus on one topic: Peace. His words have he was taken out, you need to hear some of understood the danger of what had become what complex." "Not a Pax Americana enforced on the world of the grave or the security of the slave. of peace that makes life on earth worth living, and to hope and to build a better life for Americans but not what the military-industrial He talked about wasting billions of dollars world. He said peace would not be easy, but "mutual tolerance," and he added that even had the nerve to say, "Let us reexamine war with this enemy, he said, would destroy He said he hoped, "Our military forces are Our diplomats are instructed to avoid unnecessary He said the words "peace" and "disarmament. for a vampire. about disarmament and ending the Cold War? yes, he was serious, according to the conspiracy and disarmament, JFK had basically put a target a 26-minute televised address on the nuclear agreed not to test new nuclear weapons. Kennedy told Americans in their living rooms "all mankind has been struggling to escape on earth." This was not disarmament, but must begin with a single step." order to withdraw 1,000 troops from Vietnam. Action Memorandum 263, he said that the "major "can be completed by the end of 1965." Papers. was doing things in Vietnam that he had no the Washington Daily News, Richard Starnes, of the American government in Saigon. They in South East Asia, and there was what the had been, which is why Kennedy said he would and scatter it into the winds." assassins to take out politicians and had throwing people from buildings to make their in some cases, a CIA assassination must be fanatic of some sort." It added, "Politics, motives...Although it is intended that he You'll hear more about this kind of fanatic this first part of the show, our motive explanation, was titled "U.S. Disarmament Proposals" It said: desirability of a test ban treaty or the value Further, the events of the last two years of an un-checked continuation of the arms He wanted to again talk about "general and and he said he would be the one to lead the talking about ending the arms race and possibly students about peace and stopping humanity's Cold War, say the conspiracy theorists, was take. North Star on a clear night. Kennedy now only Now you have a motive, but as yet, no evidence. Oswald arrived at the American Embassy in Oswald, who two months before had been discharged to renounce his US citizenship. He then handed is to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics." this was incredibly risky, especially if Oswald The Soviet officials who were present were of special interest." Oswald said he "would the Marine Corps and his specialty therein." But what did he know? Wasn't he just a regular It's often said that Oswald was a kind of radar operator at Atsugi air force base in was a crucial base of operations for the CIA of the world. With one more base in the region, U2 spy planes took off from. Bissel, who worked closely with CIA director Allen these planes for spying missions over the Rather than a nobody, Oswald had "crypto" he worked, meaning the most top-secret of to the radio communications of the U2. He Soviet Union would have wanted to know. later Oswald's officer at another base where information, but what's incredibly strange Donovan about Oswald's involvement in JFK's U2 work and his access to top-secret information. say the conspiracy theorists. by a writer, he told the writer that he actually "Don't you want to know anything about what we wanted to know from you, and we asked all." if they had asked him about Oswald's U2 about it either. Weird. It's also weird first U2 plane was shot down by the Soviets. But guess what, when a year later, Oswald in Minsk, the Americans, who had been made the U2 attack, allowed him to walk right back They gave him a passport and even a loan just This was insane considering that Oswald had defected to the enemy shortly after, many was going on. People who later wrote about for Oswald on his return to the US. The Warren Crypto clearance and his U2 work, but why? talk about was the fact that Oswald worked control experiments were conducted on captives just recently titled "Truth Drugs in Interrogation" "dangerous overseas missions." about the mind control stuff, but that would and FBI personnel for the investigations. a crime it had committed. a book saying many things the CIA did not CIA ran an operation from the Office of Naval like they were angry at the US and disenchanted to the Soviet Union or Eastern Europe as spies. them was trained at Nag's Head, North Carolina. the Americans knowing the KGB would pick these the KGB would try and turn them into spies, Is that what Oswald was doing when he went conspiracy theorists. Botelho, said Oswald's whole pro-communist writers that Oswald was actually "anti-Communist." an intelligence operation in Russia." He back with open arms, not even being questioned Oswald was definitely working for intelligence. USSR and told the guys at the embassy on record how come he could move around without constantly JFK with that kind of history, with the CIA day pass through? The conspiracy theorists movie Inception...Well, they didn't say It's believed a man named George de Mohrenschildt an interview saying that this was true. He Moore put him in touch with Oswald. Mohrenschildt in a million years if Moore hadn't sanctioned Garrison, depicted in the movie JFK by Kevin Garrison said some of Mohrenschildt's family for JFK's assassination. record that he was the one who got Oswald This firm, Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, was, according advertising" outfit, and left out the fact the U.S. Army, possibly maps of Cuba and the with. mouth about his relationship with Oswald, happened just minutes after Gaeton Fonzi, on Assassinations, had come knocking at his whose investigations we've used a lot today just a "pawn in the game." who talked tended to suddenly die, which is later. We'll also show you a bunch of very The man running the CIA's counter-intelligence Angleton. and was the head of the CIA's assassination Pash. The latter is more famous for investigating for the Soviets regarding the atomic bomb. tried to grab Nazi scientists who'd worked that, he took charge of the CIA's so-called kidnapping programs. Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) looked Special Investigations Group had a file on The CIA had this on Oswald for three years had not found this, and if it had, things 201 files were for CIA operatives that needed But what's also interesting here is that had been creating phony 201 files for the assassinations of political leaders. The reason the CIA could one day use that person as a knew this agent was up to no good, and then The HSCA interviewed a woman named Anne Egerter. 201 file. It was her testimony that showed one who was under investigation by the CIA We should say that she was indirect with her now say her testimony "implies strongly the CIA or was being used in an operation The former CIA finance officer Jim Wilcott CIA asset. Wilcott became a whistleblower the work they were doing had nothing even who was also CIA, left, too. They both testified better at night." Jim testified that another station, other loose-lipped CIA agents told Jim testified, "I thought these guys were with before showed up to take a disbursement I didn't believe him until he told me the Jim then realized that he himself had advanced eyes, made him partly involved in his beloved In 1978, after Jim had left what he saw as Chronicle, "It was common knowledge in the agency." It was also widely known that he'd on Russia. the military for the express purpose of becoming than once, I was told something like 'so-and-so the late '50s." He added, "One of the with Oswald was the difficulty they had with the Russians were on to him from the start, After this kind of talk, both Walcotts had you'll soon see, happened to many people. struggled to find work. Their car tires were phone calls. a CIA double agent who was arrested on September Bank in El Paso, Texas, and firing two shots got himself arrested because "I would rather Nagell had worked for Field Operations Intelligence, nature of CIA objectives." As a double agent, tasks was surveilling Lee Harvey Oswald. Nagell fewer people believed Oswald had acted alone Nagell also said the KGB knew about the JFK said, "If anyone wanted to stop the assassination, for the Soviets than anyone who might replace or to at least try and convince him that he him that when he met Oswald in New Orleans. a registered letter, saying he'd been ordered assassinate JFK. Nagell believed that he would so he got himself arrested. Jim Garrison interviewed witness there is." survived three attempts on his life and then what about his letter to Hoover? He said he that its sender was familiar with CIA procedure, the alias "Joseph Kramer," the pseudonym Surely that would mean the FBI knew what was denied it received such a letter. Since there loon. Review Board (ARRB) got in touch with Nagell, as he told them everything and handed over telling the truth. They mailed him a letter the day he was found dead in his bathroom attack, in spite of him being in good health that under MKUltra, the CIA worked on methods His son, Richard, was left the key to a storage told him he kept all his documents in a purple time in the CIA. When Richard arrived, he the purple trunk. It was gone. It was also his house was broken into and ransacked. Weird... the man believed to have been the CIA's of JFK on November 2 in Chicago rather than public knowledge four decades after JFK was fact he looked like Oswald and had a background to federal agents in Dallas at the time of The assassination in Chicago failed, but Vallee he was a far-right wing lunatic, obsessed perfectly with what the CIA liked to call on someone. assassination plot, so raced to Vallee's rounds of ammunition. They told the Chicago day later, policemen Daniel Groth and Peter a hunting knife in the back. In the trunk When investigators later interviewed Vallee, secret U2 program. They found his car's were told the plate information was classified. to have astounding careers in police intelligence. police career and said he'd never had anything for long periods. He and other researchers Had they been part of a plot to make Vallee was successful? was set up as a potential assassin. She said portrayed as, although he did have a history he was honorably discharged from the Marines What's more, Vallee later told the journalist at a training camp in Long Island, training Just like Oswald, he'd somehow managed to attempt would happen, where JFK's motorcade double of Oswald's. Later investigations at his new workplace that had the perfect Chicago. high-powered rifles were believed to be waiting Service, now knowing about the threat, arrested two men were being held. These men were in Vallee. The possible snipers arrested that for decades. to guard the president, was there in Chicago. some of JFK's security was so lax. He said Bolden started drawing lines between what On May 17, 1964, he tried to call the Warren On May 18, he was arrested and accused of He was disgraced, even though there was hardly in prison, his garage was burned down. A shot wife and kids. When he spoke with Jim Garrison, In 1995, when AARB got on the case, the Secret plot after AARB investigators asked for access So, this theory goes that Oswald was framed. a lot of sketchy things prior to the investigation, like he was pro-Cuba. This is where his double Prior to the assassination, there were many He was seen at a firing range on a few occasions. make this man look guilty by sending a body One of the witnesses in the Warren Commission, Oswald asked for help with his scope at a said he was at another firing range, and this by "burning up his ammunition" on Slack's the man gave him "a look" he would "never The problem was, when the Warren Commission to be in Mexico City visiting the Russian The conspiracy theorists say they weren't of the Soviet Union in a Cold War they needed Four days before JFK was shot and killed, a letter written by Oswald, or, at least, read the letter before it even got there. with Valery Kostikov, the KGB's undercover apparently killed JFK, four days prior to out with a Soviet assassin. This was a perfect But how do we know Oswald wrote the letter, The Russian ambassador wrote, "This letter we had close ties to Oswald." He said the added that whoever wrote it was no doubt behind When Lydon Johnson became President after the Soviet Union, but he didn't question The Warren Commission would later make out to Cuba after he knocked off the President. was arrested and later shot dead by someone not a man who was who you think he was. like he had planned to do that. The patsy On November 20, 1963, a car drove into Red close to the American Aviation Company, a and a woman and a guy entered the office. 22 and wanted to fly to the Yucatan in Mexico, Wayne January, who was the owner, became suspicious such as how far the plane would go, at what Mexico. These were amateur-sounding questions, also said he'd looked in the car at the he said it was Lee Harvey Oswald. He said Bird Airfield was just 5 miles from where In 1991, through a freedom of information got hold of the FBI's report on the Red the US to find Wayne January and told him January was shocked. The FBI had written that two days before the assassination. It also Oswald in the car when he had told them it His exact words were, I gave them "a nine say the conspiracy theorists, is that in January's people were thinking about hijacking a plane to implicate Cuba or the Soviet Union in JFK's Airfield incident. It had to be played down. incident, a police lieutenant in Louisiana in Eunice, Louisiana. There, he met women was Rose Charmaine. She said she'd been out of the Silver Slipper bar they were drinking Fruge took her to another hospital where she and on the two-hour journey, Charmaine told had told her they were going to kill the President either Cubans or Italians. He didn't, of a bit of a state by that time. called the hospital and told them not to let it. Had she really known? After JFK was killed, told them, and they were told they already about Charmaine's story. light that Charmaine had once worked for the Fruge that through Ruby, she had met Lee Harvey were actually quite close. subsequent JFK investigations. On September of a road in Big Sandy, Texas. The driver to miss some suitcases piled in the road, It's never been explained why a woman at next to a pile of suitcases. Dr. Charles Crenshaw, said her autopsy showed the kind of head wound wound. She might not even have been hit by body, but the state of Texas refused his request. was later interviewed, he identified the two Santana, two Cuban exiles. Santana told Jim 1962 when he first got to Miami. He was involved fighters in Cuba. The CIA admitted to using in 1963. Charmaine's story might sound unbelievable, about knowing JFK was going to be killed at The conspiracy theorists say this is just As for the other man, Smith, he'd once been to kill President Ernesto Betancourt, the Records show Smith was released from prison, straight to New Orleans, where he worked with the detective/intelligence agent Guy Bannister, the conspiracy theorists. Bannister and Smith Building. The witness David Lewis, who worked and Smith knew each other. 23-year-old Julia Ann Mercer said on the day close to Dealey Plaza, where the President man exited the truck and pulled out what she over to an area that would later become known standing nearby, and not one of them did anything case. at the driver. She got a clear look at him she saw his face on TV. She was absolutely She said that well before anyone ever asked After seeing the guy with the rifle, she'd at a restaurant. Police officers later stopped about seeing a man with a rifle, and what's was then questioned for four hours at a Dallas When Jim Garrison interviewed her later, he she had made to the cops. She looked at them that. Her actual words to Garrison were, "They just the opposite of what I really told them." at by the cops of who might have been driving and said it was him for sure. She turned it definitely showed me Jack Ruby, and I definitely she told Garrison. Ruby killed Oswald. It would have been massive, to identify the truck driver. She told Garrison on TV that this was the guy she'd seen driving She then notified the FBI that not only had seen him again on TV, but this wasn't in report said was that, indeed, one of the photos she hadn't picked him out. said the words "Air Conditioning" were she'd told the FBI that the truck had no no printing on the truck," she told Garrison. two days looking for the Air Conditioning of the signatures on these two pages of this imitations." Decker and Police Chief Jesse Curry were both exposed. Both of them had been told by the Decker had told his men they were to "take motorcade." The House Select Committee on just following orders from the Secret Service, The Secret Service said that JFK was the one but subsequent interviews refute this. Air President Eisenhower before, said all the really have been locked down with tape with happened. There was a vacuum of security for Deputy Sheriff Roger Craig said just after down the hill toward another man driving a to stop them, but he couldn't get across ran toward the Texas School Book Depository man who said he was Secret Service, who Craig he had to say. talked to Captain Will Fritz of the homicide a man in connection with the killing. Craig same man he'd seen running toward that light could that be? Oswald said, "That station drag her into this." Mrs. Paine, who Oswald wagon, but it was a BelAir Chevrolet. This Commission would say Oswald walked out of The witness, Helen Forrest, also said she James Pennington corroborated what she saw, a hat and a tan or brown sports coat. Caroline Depository leaning out of a window holding saw a man running down the hill toward the all these reports of a green Rambler. They seen getting into the Rambler, Officer Marion on the second floor of the Texas Book Depository. His wife, Jacqueline, said. the front, there was nothing. But from the to hold his hair on and his skull on." their investigation, saying they were in "poor done is help prove that her husband was shot bullet theory too much because it would make that this very crucial fact was striked from On the day of the shooting, William Allen He actually found a large piece of skull fragment, Harper. Jack passed it on to Dr. Cairns, the worked. Both Cairns and another pathologist of a skull belonging to the occiput, the lower Nine years later, a student at UCLA realized have been the real thing if these pathologists part of his skull was missing. The X-rays only one gunman, but the skull those guys more than one perpetrator, meaning JFK was a radiation oncologist, later investigated They'd been forged, he said. President was shot, he was having lunch on buy a Coke from the vending machine. A key Warren Commission, saw Oswald there at 12.15. knew Oswald well because he was always stopping vending machine. as it was lunchtime. She went into the canteen with his Coke. She said, "He was alone as This was apparently 15 minutes before he must his sights on the President, shot him, and at 12.25, so the killer was apparently sitting getting ready for the shooting in a different About 1.5 minutes after the shooting, Dallas canteen, where he saw a calm Oswald. Baker this man?" The superintendent said yes. from the machine. One minute later, a clerical on the second floor. He had a can of Cola They all testified that when they'd seen totally calm, and yet the Warren Commission of the century and moved about as fast as out that the FBI had changed her statement seeing him in the hallway off the first floor. she told a journalist. Her testimony of Oswald the narrative. to what happened at the Book Depository and or not very reliable. This has been discussed certainty what happened, so we will move on As you know, the Warren Commission said Oswald fled into a movie theater. This is only one tale, say the conspiracy theorists. Oswald at 1.15. They exchanged words. Tippit Oswald hit him with four bullets, after which the way. The report says 12 people saw the in photographs at the station. saw Oswald. He said he saw Oswald acting weird, Postal, who was in the ticket booth, saw the time was 1.45 pm. a concession stand in the theater, claims Oswald enter the theater but saw him inside. said Oswald bought popcorn from him at 1.15, as if there were two Oswalds. this earlier time. Davis said he was weirded auditorium, but this guy sat really close man then got up and went to sit somewhere to the lobby. Davis said Oswald returned about the Oswald he saw instead went to sit by a Butch then said after Oswald was arrested ground, he was astounded. He said he saw another carted out of the front of the cinema, and the back. Bernard Haire, who owned a hobby at the front and then went into the back of Regarding what he saw at the back, he later put him in a car and drove off." later, he learned that Oswald was taken out 'cos he'd been there and seen he was taken seem to suggest there were two Oswalds, as who said in a police report that Oswald was but he wasn't; he was arrested in the main being arrested? T. F. White saw around 2 pm, who was wandering was in a police station. White saw a car that license plate: PP 4537. A man in a white shirt night when he saw the man on TV was Lee Harvey he was apparently in custody at that time? mouth shut. plate number. When he checked it out, it belonged Radio, a contractor for the CIA. The FBI then was very close with the deceased Mr. Tippit. Tippit's wife after he was shot. 15 years Select Committee, but only if he was granted There were too many coincidences, say the but the best one follows. by the story of Robert G. Vinson, who worked Air Defense Command (NORAD). He saw the second as Oswald. Vinson wanted to get to Colorado Springs, Force base and, as was customary in the air of the plane. No planes were leaving, so he so he was on the list to go next. He then he heard his name called on a loudspeaker. for Denver. Great, he thought. The plane had it was empty. He saw two men in overalls working no markings on their clothes. Vinson was also manifest, which happened every time he hitched a voice on the intercom say, "The president The plane suddenly banked left and headed to see the skyline of Dallas. Two men in Dallas man. He thought nothing of it until sometime was the shorter guy. Both these guys got off later said, "I couldn't understand why Vinson later found out the plane had landed sometime later, told his wife that Oswald he was nuts. He kept quiet about it for 30 service, he never got a promotion. Let's down at that air force base. If that man really had shared a plane with him. was told was a special project. He soon discovered a series of psychological tests and then asked had ambitions in the air force. It seemed, told him that he was going to work with the plane. The conspiracy theorists believe that the projects, and so unable to talk about his He knew this work meant he was being asked said he knew the CIA would never let him out have killed him, but instead, they hired him. Records Act, and Vinson was already retired, for Wichita, Kansas. Vinson now knew under story made the news, and later it became a could have landed about five minutes from So, this is how the second Oswald got away, After JFK was killed, the first man to inspect Crenshaw, who was then working at the Parkland was beside herself, he later said. She'd brains back into his head. opening in the midline of" JFK's throat, all seen this many times in the ER. It was absolutely no doubt about this, they said. wasn't breathing well, a process known as "empty cavity" in the president's head, my mind that the bullet had entered his head Still, on the day, the Secret Service took Coroner Earl Rose tried to stop them, telling not leave the hospital. The agents pushed you know, the following autopsy at Bethesda something very different from what those doctors The conspiracy theorists say the CIA's Allen their minds and agreed it was possible that wound. There was one lone gunman, said Dulles, that fits that. Doctor Malcolm Perry changed in suits" had visited him. Secret Service been told to pressure Perry. Moore said, "I we were told." medical truth would be asking for trouble...I the men who assassinated Kennedy," adding think twice about killing a doctor. He wrote He was subsequently smeared. It was reported The Journal of the American Medical Association in the trauma room that day. Doctors and nurses that what he'd said was the truth. It didn't a shadow of doubt hanging over him, say the Even the doctors that did the official autopsy examine the throat. Navy Medical Corpsman told to leave the throat because the wound wound. "It got very tense," he said in military. We could all be controlled." of the Navy's audio-visual department, got according to this theory. He worked on a 16mm First-class Corpsman Dennis David saw Pitzer saw, that JFK had without doubt been hit from "I can assure you it was definitely an entry that it could be anything else. He realized later that what he'd seen would shot JFK. Pitzer had in his hands the most On October 29, 1966, Pitzer's body was found Center where he worked. The FBI said he was to the head. A 38-caliber pistol was lying what the FBI said had happened could not have suicidal. was thinking about retiring from the military were afraid that he would take the pictures and 16 mm film, that he would have taken them on to a major studio, so David said they'd evidence to work with. seen again. This allegedly incontrovertible intelligence went to see his wife, Joyce, anyone. She kept quiet for 25 years. Even they'd stop her pension. something darker than the dark side of the A retired army special forces lieutenant named told her in 1965 the CIA had approached him her husband. She always knew someone had killed man to do it. He'd refused to take out anyone her someone in the CIA had killed her husband. as an assassin at a secret training camp in the Special Warfare School. During that training, of a government leader would consist of using easily fit the description the public would to assassinate Cambodian Crown Prince Norodum of the Viet Cong. The operation was later career consisted of such black operations. W. Pattern summoned him to the office one man." This company man asked him if he'd security risk. Marvin assumed this would be so when he was told the target was Willian do it. He said he would only do it if Pitzer Marvin later said in an interview, "It was that green berets were tapped by the Company whereas the mafia provided the CIA's pool Marvin was also in contact with Captain David who he'd trained with regarding assassinations, went looking for Vanek, hoping he would admit he contacted the Veterans Services Directorate, no record of him. That's when Marvin thought, But AARB found Vanek in 1996. By then, he Corps. Vanek admitted to training at the Special He also said he couldn't recall a meeting Pitzer. An investigation showed that Vanek Thailand from 1965 to 1967. diagnosed him as psychotic. He'd lost the documents discussed in Tom O'Neill's book History of the Sixties, Ruby was perfectly visited just days before that diagnosis and started suffering from psychosis? The New EXPERT SAYS RUBY WAS INSANE." Anything he the conspiracy theorists said came in handy The man who diagnosed Ruby as psychotic was in time for dosing people with large amounts work in the MKULTRA interrogation, hypnosis, One of the most outspoken people about JFK they were, was the prosecutor and author Vincent Tom O'Neill when during the 25 years O'Neill Bugliosi's famous book, Helter Skelter, the CIA's many connections to the Manson Bugliosi became a kind of spokesperson for how the conspiracy theories were not true. poker with Ruby back in the day, Ruby stored CIA. The journalist Dorothy Kilgallen was when she died mysteriously. she was found dead in her Manhattan townhouse, Next to her body was a glass with dust on In the CIA's assassination manual from 1952, describes how a forced overdose is "effective" worked for 18 months on the JFK story, conducting report was "laughable." She said she would she died, and according to the book, "The CIA written all over it. for the CIA, not as an agent, but as a mafia for the CIA, in return for favors. Ruby knew the conspiracy theorists. That's the way At 3 am, the Sunday before he did it, he called confirmed the speaker was Ruby. Ruby told are planning, we are going to kill him." foil his own assassination job so he wouldn't The Dallas Country Sheriff's Office received Oswald was about to be killed. Even so, Ruby the police station and walk right up to Oswald. after those two phone calls. more to this story, but what you've heard that has convinced many people to question you now one of those people? Terrifying 'Sleep Room'." Or, have a look