Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. If you threw every single human alive today into we would not fill it up. We could make a pile about this big That's it. That's all of us. All 7.159 billion of us in one place. A species portrait. It kinda puts humanity into perspective and you. So does this. Everyday you of spit, which means, in your entire altogether, you will not produce enough spit to fill an Olympic-size swimming pool. So far, 560 billion Lego parts have been manufactured and the total of sand on Earth is estimated to be 7.5 times 10 to the 18th. But here's the thing: how many things are there... total? Well, how do you define a thing? if you can think about it or talk about it. it's a thing. Things can be real, imaginary, impossible, ideas are things, things can or yellow or concrete or abstract things can happen and some thing's probably won't. Making a video about how many things there are. That's a thing... that I'm doing right now. Let's count everything. Right away, the answer seems obvious. The word 'thing' is so vague, the answer is clearly infinite... possibly... not. All we have to do is take the maximum things out there in the real in theory measure and add to that the could imagine. The total number of thoughts possible. For the purposes of this video let's and the laws of physics exist as part of the way our universe is. But the names and are the products of thinking minds and those things are, well, things that we can count. And there's no reason to double count. pieces that make up me, particles or strings or whatever are the same as the thing that has been named me. Abraham Lincoln has a great quote about this. &quot;How many legs does a sheep have if you call its tail a leg?&quot; Four. Because calling a tail a leg doesn't make it one. Okay, let's begin. When counting the number of physical things in the universe we hit an unknown. How big is the universe? The entire universe could be infinite or it could be finite, but edgeless for a other universes. But it's unclear whether things. Instead, what we are stuck with, 'the universe', is the observable universe whose future visibility limit has been billion light-years in any direction. That's it. This is likely the only to worry about. And it contains roughly, on average, ten to the eighty elementary further internal parts as far as we currently now. So that's our answer, right? There are ten to the eighty physical things that exist out there, Any other physical thing - water, dogs, saxophones - are just names given to ten to the eighty particles. But wait, what if, in the future, we discover that what we are actually just made out of smaller instead? Well, to cover ourselves let's count the maximum possible number of the Something the size of a Planck volume. 10 to the power of 183 things that small could fit within our observable universe. I like this number, 10 to the power of 183. You couldn't easily argue there in the physical, real-world. A Planck length, a Planck volume. the smallest measurable amount of space, possible. You could imagine a half Planck volume, a 10,000th of a Planck volume. But, that would just be a thought and only ever a thought. So, how many possible thoughts are there? It's probably safe to say that thoughts is, indeed, infinite. For example, numbers. You can't say there's a limit to But, unlike physical things that exist discovered them, do unthought thoughts already exist? It seems more like thoughts is really just one thing an become things by themselves until we thing them that is we or some other mind thinks or talks about them and there's a limit to we or anything else could ever thing our observable universe is only so big for only so long. After about 1 trillion the supply of gas needed to form new exhausted and the lights will start one-star at a time. After a Google years the amount of usable energy 0 and nothing will be able to happen to calculate the maximum number up thought inside our observable universe all of its mass and turn it into human that just think new and random thoughts until the universe runs out of usable of thinking. But wait, what if there are alien brains or for all we know Earthling think faster than we can okay well to be let's not turn all of that mass into giant hypothetical machine that computes at speed of light in the uncertainty principle; Bremermann's its 1.36 times ten to the fifty bits of material, now a high-end estimate for the is 3.4 times ten to the the 60 kilograms which used exclusively for the best process 4.624 times ten to the 110 bits per second. Now with 3.154 seconds available from the beginning of and an assumption that the average of information to describe say about 800 bits we get a total of 1.458 times ten to the 227 things that could ever be thought or imagined. That number is huge. In the observable universe the universe as we will ever is so much larger than the number of physical imagination and if you were to combine the the number of physical things would make a difference. So, funny enough when it comes to every thing in the universe it really is the thought that counts. And as always, thanks for watching.