- [Johnny] If a person robs you on land, they're a thief. But if they rob you at sea, they're a pirate. Let's say it's 2007 and you're the captain of a cargo ship traveling off the coast You're transporting wheat When you look out at the ocean and you see these guys. They come at you quickly, just a small speedboat of them, and soon they're right up They're about to throw You run into the ship's and you call the Coast Guard. Or maybe you try to spray to scare them away. But it's too late. They've now climbed on board. They're rounding up the crew. They're gonna hold you hostage and demand a ransom of millions of dollars for anyone who will pay. The shipping company, your doesn't matter. And if you don't give them the money, you'll be held in captivity, starving, maybe even tortured for days, weeks, months, even years. - If there's no answer within three days, then the kidnappers here will sell me to Al-Shabaab. - [Johnny] This happened This is what a typical hijacking in the early 2000's, where by the end of the decade, hundreds of piracy incidents and they were still just getting started. So let me show you how the Horn of Africa became the epicenter of modern-day piracy and how what started as Somali fishermen defending their waters turned into an organized criminal network. This is the rise and - [Reporter] Off the Somali coast where those pirates attacked that vessel. (pirate screaming) (aggressive electronic music) - [Commentator] You're dealing - [Commentator] If your I don't know what they are able to do. - Okay, little sidebar really quick. Yes, I'm wearing my orange jacket inside because it's kind of cold in the studio. Anyway. One of my least favorite parts about living in the internet age is how tracked I am and I spend a lot of time on the internet, and when I do that, all of my data, all of my purchase history, my address, my Social Security number, is scraped by some shadowy company and put onto a list and then bought and This is why my inbox is chaos, why my phone is always why I'm constantly being marketed to and sent stuff to my It's a nightmare and it's People's data is being not just by marketers, but by recruiting companies and risk management companies and people search sites so that people can search you. It's like not cool. Luckily, we all have rights to get ourselves off of these lists. The problem is no one's going through the bureaucracy to actually get yourself off these hundreds of lists And that is where Incogni comes in. Incogni is the sponsor of today's video, as you probably have gathered, and I'm very grateful to and supporting our journalism. But also I'm grateful that they exist. Because I didn't know about them until they came to sponsor a video, and now I'm a super fan. You sign up for Incogni and to go out on your behalf to take you off all of these lists. When I signed up for it, they were able to scan and see that I was on dozens of and they were able to show It's all on this nice-looking dashboard. And then the best part is you get to sit back and watch Incogni do all the work for you, go and fight to get you Sometimes that's as easy that they do and they Sometimes they get and they will do that fight for you until you are off that list. And you just get to sit I'm really glad that they invented this because it has been getting out of hand. Like we love the internet, it's great, but like this data exploitation thing is getting out of hand. And I swear someday we're and be like, &quot;That was the Wild West.&quot; For now, Incogni is a and protect your privacy. So there's a link in my description. It's incogni.com/johnnyharris. Click the link. You help support the channel, but you also get 60% Why do you need an annual plan? Because when they take you off a list, inevitably if you continue you'll end up back on that list. Incogni constantly to make sure that you Soon, your inbox will Your phone will quiet down. Mine sure has. And you can rest easy knowing that your data isn't by any corporation or person who wants it. So the link is in the description. Thank you, Incogni, for Let's dive into this big topic of pirates. Pirates aren't one thing. They've always existed. As long as there's been there have been pirates, sailors who utilize the to rob and steal and run If you haven't seen CGP go watch it. It's a two-parter. Pirates are everything from Norse sailors who raided other ships on the high seas to the famous pirates of the Caribbean, like Britain's Blackbeard, who stole a French slave ship and souped it up into the Pirates were poor men who were looking for Some of them were looking in a time where seafaring men had little status or We've romanticized them, we've caricatured them, and we idealize them as But piracy never fully went away. It still very much exists today. Here's a map of all the piracy incidents over the past 40 years, at least the reported ones. From Indonesian pirates in the Strait of Malacca to Bangladeshi pirates in exchange for ransoms, all the way to West Africa, where Nigerian pirates and sell it on the black market. But most of the dots on the gateway to the Suez Canal, one of the busiest off the coast of a country where piracy uniquely could thrive. The government of Somalia the country fractured, and instead of a central government, local clans started to control There was no real government to regulate this the longest coastline in Africa. As a result, huge fishing boats, mostly from Iran and Yemen, took advantage of this free-for-all, swooping in to these unregulated These foreign fishers would steal hundreds of millions of with nets that tear up the sea floor, destroying the ecosystem and depleting the fish This illegal fishing by foreign vessels started to outsize the catch of locals whose water this was. Local Somali fishermen couldn't compete, and soon this illegal foreign fishing eclipsed the catch of local Somalis. Around the same time, companies from Switzerland and Somali's former colonizer Italy were illegally paying corrupt factions of the Somali government to take their toxic waste, some of it even being radioactive. Tons of this waste ended up in both Somalia's land and water, which would go on to on the health of local communities. So it's the 1990s, and between the illegal Somali people's main livelihood is being pillaged by foreigners. And they don't really have a to protect them. So some Somalis decided to fight back. - An American cargo ship - Somali fishermen got together, and they formed an ocean militia. Some would call themselves and they would use these tiny boats to chase down foreign fishing vessels and demand that they pay a fine. Some experts have called because it was piracy, but it was also kind of fishermen from predatory foreigners. And at first it was rare. I mean, if you look at the data, you just see a handful of Oh, and they were pretty basic too. Like in one of these early back in like 1994, you've got this wooden claiming to be the Somali Coast Guard, and they go up to a shipping vessel and they get on board. They like hijack it for five days, but realize they can't really do anything so they just steal as much as and just go on their way. Yes, this was piracy, but it was super basic It was a bunch of locals left by their non-existent government. And this is how it was for a long time. Loosely organized gangs climbing aboard cargo intimidating the crews to collect fines or sometimes asking for for fishing in their waters even though they didn't have any authority to give out licenses. They did it to get money, to basically be like, &quot;If you're gonna fish in our waters, &quot;you need to pay us.&quot; And the rest of the world It like wasn't big enough But that would soon change. - Across the region, At least 22,000 of them were - So there's kind of a turning point. Christmas 2004. This tsunami was devastating, mostly in Southeast Asia, but it also hit Somalia's destroying homes and boats and crippling an already - [Reporter] The tsunami took the lives of some 150 people in Somalia and poisoned the precious that people had here. - And it also washed up that had been dumped off their shores. This led to a UN investigation, which concluded that the waste was likely causing severe damage to the health of local people. And at this point, Somalia still isn't one country. There's some parts of the country that are peaceful and safe and under government control, but most of Somalia is still a patchwork of competing clans and warlords, a hotbed for terrorism and that controlled different (soldier chanting) And piracy, this thing that started off as an informal Coast Guard, was maturing in sophisticated ways. (ethereal electronic music) By 2005, you start to see larger ships that allow them to go way further off their coast, and then to use speedboats to attack like they did to this cargo ship. This was a huge level-up These motherships started which allowed the pirates to have new ways of detecting their prey. You start to see them have GPS systems or satellite Pirates start looking at shipping industry blogs and databases to locate and track shipping vessels. This was turning from to something more sophisticated. Pirates started to realize was flowing through this corridor headed towards the Suez Canal, like one of the busiest in the world. And with these new and improved tactics came more profitable business models that would change everything for pirates. - [Reporter] Police in of the missing freighter Arctic Sea has received a demand for a ransom. - It was the early 2000's, and it was the beginning - You were kidnapped by Somali pirates and you were held hostage - [Johnny] Hey, Michael, - [Michael] Hi, Johnny, - So we had a really with this American journalist named Michael Scott Moore. He was kidnapped by Somali pirates and held for almost three years before being released for - [Michael] And people say, &quot;Oh, but they're just They're not. They were in the '90's, but it was a much bigger deal than just fishermen turning to piracy. - Ransoms changed everything. Pirates were realizing how easy it was to hold a ship hostage and to demand a multimillion dollar ransom to extract a huge profit, which attracted the attention of warlords, who saw a business opportunity. Warlords now wanted to fund hijackings like this one where pirates were hijacking that was traveling from They could hold it hostage and release it only in exchange for $700,000, which is what they got. Or another instance where captured this Japanese ship and its 20-person crew, holding them hostage until somebody coughed up $2 million. There was investment in because there was a return to be had. And by 2007, around 30% of occurred within this circle. But wait, let's keep this in perspective. This actually wasn't particularly high. If you look at a graph of all of the other regions of the world, you'll see that this wasn't But watch what happens the next year. This line going up represents the expansion of There was way too much and warlords were at investing in and By 2009, this body of water off of Somalia was home to nearly half of And look at this graph of In 2008, the average ransom A total of $30 million And you gotta keep this in perspective, these were huge sums of money for anyone, but especially poor in a country with a GDP per But even still, this was just the beginning. - If you'd simply refuse to pay, I mean, the pirates The consequences of those would be unimaginable. - All of this influx of ransom cash kicked off a pirate economy cycle where pirates would attack a ship, hold the crew hostage, and get paid a high ransom. They would bring this back who funded them, which would make that person rich and allow them to invest in bigger boats and more guns and and appeasing the local who would support them, which they would use to hijack more ships in more sophisticated ways. And it repeated and repeated, getting more and more sophisticated - [Michael] So a businessman that he needs to protect his that's a warlord. And a pirate boss is nothing else. He's a businessman who invests in piracy. - The pirate businesses and bank-note tellers with machines that could detect fake bills so that they could know was real or not. There was this great reporting at the time in 2009 by Reuters. One of their journalists that had been a sleepy fishing village but had turned into a booming pirate hub, or in their words, pirate lair. What Reuters found was that that they had created a stock exchange where any local in the town into a piracy business. There were dozens of and you can invest in the one that you think is gonna by hijacking an international And people made a lot of money. One local said they made because they had made a good - [Michael] Pirate bosses they were investors who had - These pirate businesses would in turn support these communities, help fund the schools and the hospitals in order to curry favor with the locals to make sure that they would support them running their businesses. But the people who were were mostly the clan leaders, the warlords who were building massive and throwing lavish, drug-laden parties. This was no longer the DIY Coast Guard. This was now lucrative organized crime. And yet some of these pirate groups still tried to make a moral case as to why they were saying that this wasn't piracy, this was retaliation for all of the exploitation by foreign countries. You see this in a 2008 when these pirates demand $8 million, claiming that they would use the money to clean up the toxic waste that European companies Yes, European companies have Were these pirates actually to clean that up? Probably not. At least that's what we A lot of the moralistic, became really thin once and once they demanded a And you just start to see how when pirates start boarding ships and just shooting crew at random to show how serious they were and to increase the likelihood of getting a high ransom payout. - Unfortunately, there is who was killed by by the Somali pirates. - [Johnny] Or when they that were full of food and medical aid meant for Somali people. - The ship apparently was and the shipment included and other basic food commodities bound for people in countries including Somalia, Uganda, and Kenya. - This was about money and power, and it was able to thrive because of a country that that actually controlled the country. By 2011, there were 237 Over 1,200 hostages were taken that year. 35 of them died while in captivity. This was becoming more and more deadly and more and more lucrative. Let's go back to that graph of the average ransoms that were paid. You can see it grow up for the average ransom. The total number of ransoms paid in 2011? $150 million. It was getting out of hand, but it would take a few key events for the world to really take notice. - [Captain] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all ships stay inside, We are trying to run away from them. Now, stay inside everybody. This is a real alarm. Please stay inside. - There's this funny thing where in order for the world it sort of has to affect like Westerners. And that's no different with pirates. There was this one incident where a group of pirates showed It was full of Western tourists. - They hit us with rocket grenades, RPGs. There was a woman in her cabin, and she was fortunately in her bathroom, but a rocket grenade went right through and blew the whole cabin up. - The cruise ship escaped, but it still led to global news coverage. Another incident was in 2008 when a Ukrainian ship was Little did these pirates know they had just stumbled upon a shipment of tanks and grenades and They were demanding $35 holding the crew and the ship hostage. The U.S. and Russia both freaked out here, and they sent in their navys to like monitor the situation to make sure the pirates weren't gonna take the In the end, the pirates agreed to and the secret weapons It was a big scare, and it was another step to how big of a deal this was becoming. But the biggest event A U.S. container ship was when four pirates boarded holding the crew hostage The U.S. government has a firm policy that it doesn't negotiate with hostages, but what they do do is So after four days, the Navy Seals arrived with snipers. They shot three of the four It was an incident that was later depicted in this Tom Hanks movie. These were dramatic events, a hostage situation with and it spread into the in a way that Somali - [Reporter] Captain for almost five days and then rescued by the U.S. Navy. - It was clear that this had become too lucrative of an economy. There was too much incentive for warlords to get in on all of this The only way to slow this down As we were reporting this story, I kept asking like, &quot;Why is this such a And we asked all of the and we have a pretty good idea now why this is way more First off, guns. You can't really carry guns on international shipping vessels, partly because there's that are complicated, partly because shipping companies because it can be a weird liability thing. You can't just have like a Second, it's hard to send in the navys to patrol these waters because pirates often until it's too late, at which point they're prone to use their victims as human shields against any threatening navy. So unless you've got like the like the Navy Seals, it's actually really hard to use just like military force And lastly, you have to remember We're talking about the open ocean, huge swaths of water. It's really challenging to monitor and control It's one reason why piracy has always thrived on the open sea. But even despite all these challenges, governments and businesses and they figured something out. The first one's kind of boring. It's this report that this international that basically teaches ships how to protect themselves. They recommend them using that allows 'em to just like They started recommending putting barbed wire and Kind of gnarly. Put locks on your doors, increase your surveillance. Like this is pretty basic stuff. Create a safe room or a citadel where you can like lock But one of the big things they did was create this where ships could all travel sometimes escorted by a navy ship from one of these countries, helping them navigate this really busy but very vulnerable part of the international shipping highway. And another huge step was, in spite of all the complicated gun laws, vessels were now allowed to stand watch as they So now you've got like security guards with guns on the ship who have nothing else to do but like protect the boat. And guess what? All of these strategies totally worked. I mean, look at this graph. After its all-time high in 2011, hijacking incidents plummeted because of these interventions. But this leaves us with kind of a complicated These communities were left They don't have the where people can thrive and work. That's for a lot of reasons, but it's in part because of the pillaging and the exploitation from outsiders. And so while these warlords who committed horrific crimes to get rich deserve no moral justification, it is morally complicated when you look at people who whose waters have been whose country has been pillaged, and who turned to piracy as a last resort. But I'm not gonna go into I think you all can fight that out in the comments if you want. I'd love to see what you have to say. The fact is piracy was because of these interventions, at least for the most part. But just as Somali piracy was declining, incidents of piracy started popping up on the other side of the continent. The Gulf of Guinea took Somalia's title as the piracy hotspot of the world. These attacks happen and they look quite different. They're usually Nigerian pirates boarding oil tankers to steal the oil that they feel like was stolen from their land. The international community and this is a more for a lot more reasons. The fact is piracy won't go away as long as the ingredients that Frustrated young men with in an economy, incentivized and organized by clan leaders looking to get rich on the high seas, operating in a gray area where the government and the society that should support them and employ them doesn't exist or is too weak to help, leaving them to fend for themselves and to turn to more and more in the process. (plaintive electronic music) (plaintive electronic music) Hey, everyone, look at this map behind me. I don't know if you caught but this is a map mostly of East Asia, but you get this Somali And basically everything it's all right here. It's really a beautiful map. And when you look at it, you can see just how to global shipping. Anyway. I've wanted to look into I always saw the news over the years and never really understood And we reported on this, and we talked to a lot of experts, and there's actually a There's a lot of people who argue for like a vindication saying that they're just retaliating against a world who's exploited them. And like there's a strong argument there. But I don't know. Again, I'm really curious to hear what people have to say about it. Yeah, we are interested in making deeper and deeper videos. A video like this takes to like really understand, to get the data. Like we've got this whole to map every incident. Like that's just like a way bigger thing. But we want to do more of these. So I'm curious to hear from you what stories we should do next. For those who want to support this effort of making high-quality, factual videos, we have a Patreon. It is called The Newsroom. That is what we call it. And it is a place where you to help make possible what we do here. You can also buy LUTs and presets, which are the things that to make our videos look and not like this, which is what it looks I have a map poster that we sold out of, but then I'm pretty sure we reprinted it like a thousand more. So that should be in stock. Don't quote me on that. It could be sold out again by I have no idea. Yeah, go watch Search Party, which is our new channel that is created by my old Vox colleague and now my partner, Sam Ellis, who is building that channel, but sort of under our And it's awesome and it and really good journalism. It's called Search Party. It is here on YouTube. And I think that's all the here in my little cozy couch setting. It's so dim in here. I feel like I could just And I just might. So thank you all for being here and for the support and the kind comments and the appreciation. And we'll see you soon in the next one. Bye-bye. (ethereal electronic music)