[Music] Last week I took a trip to into the world of racing pigeons, equestrian to take up the hobby in the hope we could [Music] sport. So when first told Kate um I thought it was joke cuz I'm always coming just I sort of drip fed it really and then way up to Newark with a trailer on the back to yeah one thing leads to another doesn't it? when I'm building another extension and just she'll let them out if I can't and she's fully on his life um and he's got to an age now where he's with work having moved around never been in the the time I think if you if you put it off too long a perfect time is there? I'll just be very happy you know if they if they go out and have a half that. I would love I would actually like maybe a one loft race. I don't want to do that's the bottom line but I'm quite I think I'd like to establish my own team Whether that's a good selection criteria or don't eat that! come on. Tim had already and camouflaged it green, no doubt in the hope [Music] on. Get off Stanley leave that! Does he make a tray for under there. Yeah people keep when do you get the time? Yeah exactly it's leave it! Come. You know it needs to be I put loft lights in mine and was like why on the list but did you run a proper cable? wiring and then just put it all on a plug? Yeah there's probably a better way of doing it. Do but literally in next Village he's at eight lost he's lost he's lost eight. In my view this is have an affinity with animals and country sports, fancy. Back home at my own loft the race had been hardly a great incentive for working people to rest of the day off to see the birds come home be having all mess and rubbish in the shot. cup. this won't do! Basket for the [Music] dropper. There's such a mess in here do. It's a sunny day headwind today we've were liberated at 9:35 uh in a fresh Southwest I've come back and Charlie's on his way should be here in another 10 15 minutes. think today or that's what Charlie thinks not sure. But it's definitely blowing quite a lot were going to have the race but yeah we'll see now is um put this mask on because I'm scraping the birds to the race. Um so there'll be quite a have a quick scrape out now that they're at um at are mostly hens and then a couple of cox and move people recommended I use kiln dried sand on the lime it's really effective and you don't need to look at some of these young birds then Charlie. be in you know. They'd be beaten last week if up pigeons from uh Noel Gallager Callahan! Noel are the Marley Westrops? Do you remember Marley the bird that went to the Faroe Islands and then red Checker how they doing? two hours and then in the background? It's just behind that beam you You got plenty of room. There's plenty of room know I don't know about that Charlie. on the box perch and on the bottom pairing up you want to come down! You start and cut them for yeah yeah you can take the wrath of Karenza Charlie forgot his hearing aides, which was fun. have? I told you I told you. I know. I've come need to write a list. Write a list. Write saying can you Charlie? You can't hear hear anything I'm saying can you? Okay I can I knew it'd be a hard race for my birds and leaders before the first one appeared. Some might [Music] on! Come on! Come on! Here no it's down to the farm siren you can hear in the land. Come on. Blummin 'eck! Dropping like that losing loads of time [Music] on come on. Bloody [Music] Hell. Come [Music] on come on. What can you do. What can you obviously frit. Come on. Yearling! Come Come [Music] on. Come [Music] on. Come on. 6735. We lost a good didn't really matter because it turned leaders anyway. Here we are. Come on. come on. We haven't had the fastest day but Kyle. Later in the week I had a dilemma something [Music] Right so quite uh a worrying thing football training with Archie and I thought it's a nice evening and uh they didn't get a the light is on cuz it's getting dark. Big puddle of blood on the floor it's all and it's also on here and that's still here? And it's there and I found it's the mealy coming out of his throat. I thought he'd caught stuck in his throat so I'm going to try and everywhere. Alright buddy, let's [Music] What's happened? Oh I see. Okay, so what's happened is the second one to get his toe trapped in it coming all down his throat and he was making a stuck in his throat I thought he might have toe he's missing his claw from his middle middle they struggle walking in anyway it's great underneath it. But that won't do! So well mate up. It's getting all over me in wipe you got it Pigeon Blood I've already cut look at his throat I thought it was a cut in throat right so just am I going to have to dab quick thing here and then and then is it ready the end ready now tested it yeah right let's go now where on the tip? Yeah, put plenty on. Yep. I claw as well. Sorry um superglue was invented They needed a way to stop people bleeding out more you got in on me. Sorry. Super all his feathers out. You making you're off. Right sorry. It's very runny, going get a bit on there on the back squeeze. Well that should do it. Well it's only it's only a toe wound but I'm going at his throat there I thought blow it that what's his toe grow back or not toenail no it's not his what's happening is there's a little little is get I think they're getting their claws caught they can't get the leg out it pulls it off yeah going to the races this weekend there's a lot you can see actually though that where the nail yeah but so in the young bird Loft I've got slats the mesh because I was worried that you know um if like that any must mustelids um coming by they'd like it's a safer option doesn't it you right be fine it certainly stopped it it stopped it the antiseptic spray it's sealed already yeah