This is the Vehicle Assembly Building. NASA has used it to before they lift off from the launch pad. In this video, we'll and how it's been used for (graphics whooshing) This video is sponsored by Brilliant. In the 1960s, NASA was headed to the moon. The launch vehicle for this with the Apollo Spacecraft at the top. They needed a place to assemble and the launch pad wasn't set up for this. This is why they built the often just called the VAB. This building is still in use today. It's a controlled environment that protects from the outside weather. It keeps the rocket to one of the launch pads, usually just a few The VAB has been mainly used The Saturn V, which was the Space Shuttle for the and the Space Launch System, or SLS, which is currently being which will return astronauts Construction of the VAB started in 1963, and it took three years to build. (gentle music) The building cost $117 million US dollars. That's more than 1 billion Over the years, they expanded the facility around the building and also added the NASA logo, sometimes called the &quot;Meatball&quot; logo, and a giant American flag on the side. The VAB is 160 meters tall. For a good size comparison, here's the Statue of Liberty There are some open that go all the way to the roof. Because of this, some people consider it to be the world's largest but after looking inside, that definition might There's a lot of different The VAB is located in Florida The VAB is here and on the other side is More than five kilometers The large distance is mainly for safety. This path is called the Crawlerway. It's a 40-meter wide double pathway road. When the rockets are ready, they're transported from the VAB all the way to one of They use some massive We'll talk more about These enormous rockets are built in quite a few different pieces. These rocket pieces have been across the United States. Then they're shipped to Kennedy Some of the pieces arrive at this Turning Basin, and other pieces can be flown by airplane and land on this runway, which was built for the Shuttle Program. Another way they can arrive is by train. Then the pieces of the rocket (bright music) This smaller building next to the VAB is the Launch Control Center, which is facing both of the launch pads. Let's take a look inside This area is for the Low Bays that can work on parts The Low Bays were mainly used in the '60s and '70s. And the tall section of the There are four High Bays These are the large open spaces that are big enough to fit a rocket. The foundation for the VAB extends beyond the north side of the building. There is space to build two and if needed, they can to allow for larger rockets. However, as of the year 2024, there are no current plans to do this. On the sides of each High So this is Tower A, Tower They go all the way to the roof. Right down the center which runs the entire On each side are retractable doors, large enough to fit the massive parts of the spacecraft and rockets. Despite the size of the doors, they're not the largest Each High Bay has four door and then seven door panels It takes about 45 minutes to The main part of the building but once these doors are opened, it does provide a draft There are bridges and catwalks so that workers can get in between the different parts of the building. And plenty of elevator to get to the different levels. Inside the building, there used to lift the massive There is one crane that goes It can carry up to 159 metric tons. And then we have four more cranes that service the High Bays. Originally, there were but now there are four of them. These two cranes, service and these two cranes service The strongest cranes can lift The operator for the crane I hope they're not afraid of heights. We'll see these cranes in For the rest of the video, I'd like to show how the building was used for each space program. First, we'll start with the Saturn V. Back when the VAB was (bright music) The High Bays used most often were High Bay 1 and High Bay 3. This is because they're makes things a little bit easier. Inside of each High Bay, Resting on top of this and the Launch Umbilical Tower. The stages of the Saturn V Rocket are brought into the transfer aisle. This is the First Stage of the Saturn V. Initially, two of the The transfer aisle crane and the high bay crane will Both cranes work together to lift and rotate the rocket stage. Now, just the high bay crane is used to lift it the rest of the way. This all happens very slowly. The first stage weighs The crane operator can't afford They bring it over into the high bay and gently set it down on On the sides of the high bay are retractable There are five pairs of these. They're literally as big as a house. They are specifically designed to fit around the Saturn V. Once a piece of the rocket is in place, the platforms can move into position. This allows workers to access Next, the crane lifts up the More platforms can now be moved in place. Now the Third Stage. Right above the third stage is where they put the Instrument Unit. This is like the brains of the rocket controlling it all the The very top part includes and the Lunar Module, which is the part that This whole section is lifted up as well and gently placed at the (bright music) During the peak of the Apollo Program, three of the high bays to assemble the Saturn V Rockets. Once a rocket is ready to go, the work platforms are retracted and the high bay doors are opened. This is called the Crawler-Transporter. This is what moves the rockets all the way to the launch pad. NASA built two of these enormous machines. It slowly moves underneath and then lifts it up. Now the rocket can begin its This is called the Rollout. The crawler transporter one kilometer per hour. This means it will take several hours to get to the launch pad. All that work, and we're finally ready to After the Apollo Program, NASA started making plans to the Space Shuttle. There were 135 shuttle missions over a period of about 30 years. The shuttle had missions It was also used to construct the International Space Station. To save money, they tried in the VAB, but there were some specific changes that were needed to There's quite a bit of height difference between the Saturn V This means the platforms in the high bays couldn't be used anymore. Some of these platforms were modified and then relocated specifically There were four pairs of these platforms. High bays 1 and 3 were mainly used to assemble the Space Shuttle. High bays 2 and 4 were used to process and store the external They were stored in the Checkout Cells on the sides of the high bays. High Bay 2 was also used as a safe haven in case of hurricanes. And High Bay 4 was also used to sometimes store an orbiter while it waited for the next mission. The north entrance to the transfer aisle needed to be widened by 12 meters to allow the orbiter to enter. A slot right here allowed for the passage of the Vertical Stabilizer. The Launch Umbilical Towers to the launch pads. During the Shuttle Program, they called it the The Saturn V mobile for the Space Shuttle and renamed the Mobile Launch Platform. The first part of the is the Solid Rocket Boosters or SRBs. They're built in several different pieces with their solid fuel One by one, they're moved over to the high bay, and assembled on top of The work platforms are moved (bright music) Next comes the External Tank. This was carefully placed When it's time, they'll get which is the Orbiter. Two of the cranes are used and then the high bay and lifts it into position. The orbiter has to be rotated so that it can fit in between Then it's attached to the Once it's ready, the shuttle This is very similar to what The crawler transporter carries and the Space Shuttle all (bright music) After the Space Shuttle it was time to prepare for the This will be used to launch which will return astronauts The VAB underwent a that included replacing much of the wires and cables that were The Space Shuttle platforms and new work platforms There are 10 pairs of these platforms. These are smaller, customizable platforms that can even move up and down as needed. The crawler transporter was upgraded and new mobile launchers were built. The SLS rocket is much SLS is launched from PAD-39B 39A is now used by SpaceX. Stacking the rocket is very similar to what we've already done. NASA is getting quite good at this. SRBs are stacked first. These are very similar to the but with a few changes and upgrades. (bright music) Then comes the Core Stage. Very carefully lowered between the SRBs. And finally, the upper stages. Inside of here is the Once we're ready, it's The first SLS mission was Artemis 1 launched in November of 2022. This was an Uncrewed Launch, which meant it didn't have It was a test flight around the moon. The next mission, Artemis 2 around the moon as early as 2025. This will be the first time that astronauts have left low The vehicle assembly building isn't just a place It's a testament to We can solve problems and do things that were once In the future, we'll need those that have strong backgrounds in Science and Engineering. The best way to learn this Brilliant is where you learn by doing, not just reading a textbook, This is a very effective way to learn. You can develop a deep understanding so that you're better prepared to meet the challenges of the future. By doing Brilliant for just you'll develop strong and a powerful habit of learning. Brilliant has thousands and topics that are relevant Like Math, Programming and AI. For me, Brilliant makes things come alive and is a reminder that You can try it out for everything Brilliant has to offer. Just go to brilliant.org/jaredowen. You can also get 20% off (bright music)