Good morning :) We are now heading to Kyoto. I would like to enjoy a trip to Kyoto for 2 days and 1 night! First, I came to ``WIFE&amp;HUSBAND'', a homemade coffee shop run by a couple. I heard that this cafe also rents out picnic sets, and that you can have a picnic at the Kamogawa River. We sat at the counter. Coffee that is carefully dripped one cup at a time. The pictures and miscellaneous goods displayed inside the store are so beautiful that you can't help but stare at them. We ordered iced cafe au lait and homemade coffee &quot;DAUGHTER&quot;. Popular menu items such as ``Butter Cheese Toast'' and ``Cheese Terrine'' looks so delicious:) The coffee is dark roasted but has a refreshing aftertaste, and you can feel that it was carefully brewed:) The glasses and utensils are also nice. I am captivated by this wonderful view of the world... I can't get enough of this sweet and salty taste! The combination of delicious bread, cheese and honey is the best. The cheese terrine melts in your mouth as smoothly as butter. It has a refined sweetness and goes perfectly with coffee. A wonderful space where you can feel the store's commitment. we had a good morning here. Get off the train at Sanjo Station and head to your next destination. Among Sanjo Street, which is lined with various shops, there is one called ``MARcourt Sanjo Store'' that stands out with its wonderful exterior. I'm happy because today I can finally go into a store that I've been curious about for a while. How beautiful... This building was built in 1890 and is the oldest private Western-style building in Kyoto, and is registered as a tangible cultural property. A cloud pattern is engraved on the side of the spiral staircase leading to the second floor. There was a heavy door at the back of the store. This used to be the location of a shop called ``Yabe Toku Watch Shop,'' and it is said that watches and precious metals were stored inside this door. ``MARcourt'' is a select shop that carries a mix of domestic and international brands, with a focus on ``mizuiro ind'' and ``MARMARMAR.'' Let's take a look at the clothes in this wonderful store with a classic atmosphere! My eyes fell on the blouse in front of me. The asymmetrically designed feather-like ruffles are very nice. There were also beige, black, and refreshing blue. This coat is also nice. There were two types: Nep mix pattern and herringbone pattern. The material is a wool blend, and the silhouette is slightly rounded towards the bottom. That's nice too. This jacket is made of 100% wool and is soft to the touch, with a large collar and impressive pockets. Although it is simple, it has an elegant and sophisticated atmosphere. Looks good with a skirt too. The black and brown styling also looks great! There were accessories from various brands on the antique table. Next, go to the room behind the door... In addition to clothes, there were also books and miscellaneous goods. There are so many wonderful items that I'm curious about:) This quilted blouson is also nice. Long is also good. We took the opportunity to ask the staff to introduce some recommended items. It's autumnal and wonderful. I'll try it on:) What do you think of this style? The combination of black and brown is wonderful:) This outerwear also seems to be a recommended item:) The fluffy silhouette is wonderful. This outerwear is lighter and more comfortable than I expected, and looks great for casual styling with pants. After enjoying shopping on the 1st floor, go up the spiral staircase to the 2nd floor... Upon the 2nd floor, you will find an even more attractive room... The store's fixtures can be found at flea markets and antique shops . It seems that it is a gift. How beautiful... it feels like you're in Paris. On the second floor, Mizuiro Ind's clothes were mainly displayed. The softly swaying silhouette is very nice. The autumnal colors are also nice :) This dress is also lovely. It looks like it can also be worn as a gilet. The staff introduced me to this wonderful down jacket:) It's very light and warm... It looks great with denim for a casual style, or with slacks:) Wow...so cute :) Apparently this is also popular. The camel color is very elegant and the voluminous silhouette is wonderful. You don't see many stylish down jackets, do you? :) mizuiro ind's clothes look simple, but the designer's attention to detail is packed into them. You can feel the dignified and gentle atmosphere from the clothes. Lastly, I will try on the items that caught my eye :) How about it? A dress that can also be worn as a vest. The silhouette that spreads out towards the hem is beautiful. Next up is a flared shirt with an attractive fluffy silhouette. I really like the voluminous sleeves. A lovely color perfect for fall. It looks good with my burgundy nails today:) I paired it with a navy long vest. I wore a stand-up collar coat with a men's-like design. The style with the collar up is also nice :) What do you think of this style? It has a feminine feel:) If you layer a V-neck knit over this blouse, you can see the collar and it will look cute:) I'm going to wear the raglan short jacket that I've been eyeing. Instead of going for an all-black style, I feel like wearing a navy outerwear will create a slightly softer atmosphere :) The beautiful interior of the store is so cozy that I couldn't help but stay for a long time... Enjoying such an elegant feeling There's a certain store. If you have a chance to go to Kyoto, please visit this store :) Thank you for the wonderful time :) Next, we went to an antique shop that we always stop by when we come to Kyoto. When we got off, there was a lot of lovely vintage furniture. 70B is a store that directly imports antique and vintage furniture from around the world, including England, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands. There are many wonderful items lined up throughout the store, and you can find great items one after another. This sofa also has a unique color scheme. There were a lot of wonderful furniture today. Next, I went to a dried flower shop in Kawaramachi. It feels like going deep into the forest :) It's so nice... flowers are displayed everywhere in the store, making it an irresistible space for dried flower lovers! I heard that you can purchase just one flower, and they also accept orders for swags and wreaths. All dried flowers have beautiful colors. I bought flowers here before and was nervous when I took them home on the Shinkansen, but the flowers weren't broken at all :) We had tea at the cafe. The matcha latte was slightly bitter and delicious... We had a great time surrounded by beautiful flowers. The staff gave us flowers as a thank you for giving up our seats to other customers during the meal...! We did the obvious thing, but the staff were so considerate and made us feel that this was a wonderful restaurant. I thought so. I'll take it home with me and display it with the flowers at home :) While walking along the Kamogawa River, I head to the next shop. Kyoto in autumn is calm and wonderful. Next, I arrived at a store that I had wanted to go to for a long time. Here, you can enjoy the shop's original desserts made only from plant-based ingredients and without dairy or eggs. And the atmosphere is so wonderful that you can't help but sigh... Just like the name of the shop &quot;STARDUST&quot;, you can feel the beautiful glow in the comfortable darkness. I feel like I'm in another world The cutlery and utensils used are very nice. A rice flour carrot cake made with pesticide-free carrots from Kyoto. Chewy texture and just the right amount of sweetness. It tastes so comforting. Chai milk tea uses soy milk and is mellow and delicious. The crunchy texture and simple sweetness are irresistible:) The delicious desserts, wonderful tableware, and beautiful space will leave you spellbound... Both the visitors and us who work here will be enchanted by the place. I wish I could create a place where just being there makes me feel happy and the star inside me starts to shine... I learned about the owner's thoughts on the shop's website, and even more ... I fell in love with the store. Thank you for the wonderful time :) From the cafe, I took a bus for about 10 minutes and arrived at &quot;Imamiya Shrine&quot;. Imamiya Shrine is also known as ``Tamanokoshi Shrine''. Kyoto becomes more beautiful with the rain... After visiting the shrine, I went to eat ``Aburimochi'' sold in front of the grounds of Imamiya Shrine. It is said that eating aburimochi will protect you from the plague, so it is said to be a confectionery that wards off evil spirits. A nice aroma...! The two restaurants facing each other are both long-established restaurants with a long history, so this time I decided to eat at Kazariya. ``Kazariya'' has a history of over 400 years since its establishment. We ordered two servings of aburimochi. The rice cake is glossy :) The rice cake is sprinkled with soybean flour and roasted over Bincho charcoal, and topped with plenty of white miso. Ever since we went on a trip to South Korea, my mother has been addicted to finger hearts The fragrant rice cakes and the mellow sweetness of the white miso are exquisite and irresistible...! It's so delicious that I feel like I could eat as many pieces as I want :) Kyoto We had a great time admiring the picturesque scenery. As I was strolling along Shijo-dori Street, it was already nightfall. On the other side of Shijo Ohashi Bridge, the illuminated Minamiza can be seen beautifully. Tonight, we will enjoy authentic Beijing cuisine at ``Toka Saikan.'' We were guided to our dining table in Japan's oldest elevator. It feels like you've traveled back in time hundreds of years :) The interior of the store has a retro atmosphere. From the window, you can enjoy the night view along the Kamogawa River. The courses seem to be popular, but we decided to order each dish that caught our eye. First, I had the corn and crab soup. The soup was melty and the sweetness of the corn filled my mouth, making it very delicious :) Delicious-looking dishes were brought to me one after another. Cheers to our trip to Kyoto! The shrimp are so big that it's a little difficult to grab them with chopsticks... The chewy, plump shrimp and the sweet and salty sauce are irresistible:) The popular menu item is the ``Spring Rolls''. I was surprised by the shape of spring rolls when I saw them for the first time :) They looked very delicious and my mother was surprised! The spring roll wrappers seem to be made with eggs instead of flour, giving them a crispy and chewy texture. It was impressively delicious...! It contains large cuts of Kuroge Wagyu beef, like Kuroge Wagyu Chinjao loin steak. It has a rich, sweet taste, and sometimes you can feel the freshness of the celery, and everything is perfectly seasoned. A wonderfully colorful fried rice with shrimp, chashu pork, green onions, and carrots. It has a gentle seasoning with just the right amount of salt, and is also delicious! I found out later that Chinese people don't eat with their plates...m(__) mActually, the nice exterior of this restaurant caught my eye about 5 years ago, and I've been wanting to go to this restaurant ever since. did. I could n't believe it was such a wonderful restaurant with such great food and atmosphere... I ended up having some jasmine tea. It had a very refined taste, and it soothed my soul. Let's get on the elevator and come back from the dream world :) The service at this restaurant is very polite and the staff are very kind... It was a wonderful shop that I would heartily recommend. Thank you for a wonderful night :) Although it was later than planned, I arrived at the hotel where I will be staying this time. Noga Hotel Kiyomizu Kyoto is a 4-star hotel built in 2022 and is in a great location, just a 14-minute walk from Kiyomizu-dera Temple. The modern interior design is very nice and makes you feel like you're in a foreign country. This time we will be upgraded and stay in a premium king room. From the moment you open the door, you feel a stylish atmosphere... The interior is decorated in calm tones and is very nice. It's clean, and the rooms and hallways are spacious enough. There was a Kiyomizu-yaki cup. It's very Kyoto-like and wonderful. Other items include a Genki kettle and a coffee bag. There was also free water. Bath towels, loungewear, hair dryers, and toothbrushes made from natural bamboo. The OSAJI hand soap had a soothing scent.The bathroom was also spacious enough. I could see Kyoto Tower from my room. I would like to relax and relieve the fatigue of my trip in this wonderful room :) It was hard to believe that the forecast was for rain, but the sky was so blue. The entrance and lobby are decorated with many ornamental plants, creating a refreshing and lovely atmosphere in the morning. There was a bar in the back, and next to it was a bakery supervised by the chef from Shinjuku's very popular MORETHAN BAKERY. There is a restaurant in the basement where you can eat from breakfast to dinner. Unfortunately we weren't able to use it this time, but there was also a rooftop bar on the top floor with a panoramic view of all of Kyoto. It was a wonderful hotel that I would definitely stay at again when I come to Kyoto :) I checked out at 7am and took a walk around the hotel and the road to Kiyomizu-dera Temple. The air was clear and I felt very comfortable. ``Tan'' is a small kitchen located on the banks of Shirakawa Bridge on Sanjo Dori, Kyoto. I will have breakfast here today. Here, you can enjoy a breakfast made with plenty of vegetables grown slowly and slowly using natural farming methods without using pesticides or fertilizers. My heart leaps when I see the shiny rice :) The colors of the dishes are so beautiful that I feel happy just looking at them... :) The seasonal fruit pear is a secret ingredient in the vegetables with sesame sauce. It was fresh and very delicious.The vegetables had a strange sweetness to them. The plump mackerel is fatty and delicious... and even the rice is apparently grown in-house...!It's so delicious that I'm constantly impressed. At the end, you will have egg-cooked rice. Glossy eggs with a deep orange color... Wow, this is the best! It's a comforting deliciousness :) Apparently they use eggs called special rich eggs. As the name of the restaurant ``Tan'' comes from, we ate food made with ``a little sincerity'' and had a happy time that filled our hearts to the core. After the meal, we went to the second floor and enjoyed some delicious coffee while listening to the sound of willows waving in the wind. Now that I think about it, we were having breakfast at the same table last fall. I hope I can come here again next year :) I walked for about 20 minutes towards Nanzenji. When you enter the precincts, the first thing you will see is the Sanmon gate, which is one of the tallest in Japan. Goemon Ishikawa's famous line, ``Isn't it a spectacular view? Isn't it a spectacular view?'' is said to have been said when he saw the cherry blossoms in full bloom from above the Sanmon Gate. Everywhere you look there is lush greenery and clean air. Suirokaku stands quietly within the grounds of Nanzenji Temple. Nanzenji Suirokaku is a waterway drawn from Lake Biwa to Kyoto City. The red brick arch architecture is amazing. We enjoyed the beautiful scenery and fell in love with the magical atmosphere. Next, I went to the teahouse &quot;KYO&quot; in Shijo Karasuma. We will experience the tea course here. ``Iu'' means ``a place where you are with the rain.'' You can enjoy Japanese tea, alcohol, and seasonal sweets while feeling the rain. Among the three courses, we chose the Hkurin course. I chose two of my favorite sweets to go with matcha and seasonal sencha. They're all so wonderful that you'll be spoiled for choice :) First, we'll have some traditional Gyokuro made in Yame, Fukuoka. If we were to compare it to coffee, it would be like espresso, with the flavor of the tea leaves concentrated and very rich. This is the first time I've tasted such a rich tea. I chose my favorite tea from 5 types of Japanese tea. The vessel is lovely. The host will prepare matcha tea right in front of you. Each and every gesture was beautiful and I was captivated by it. Amazing.... Both sweets had a very elegant taste. Next, we will brew Japanese tea. Wow, the nice smell of ginger...! It had a chewy red bean texture and was very delicious. And we especially liked this ginger hojicha. The view of the courtyard beyond the door is also wonderful. The soothing sound will make you want to close your eyes. Finally, a plate of sweets was brought out. This is said to be a sweet called ``guimauve'' that uses bergamot. It's the first time I've ever had a texture that disappears in my mouth, and it's sour and delicious. I was able to drink up to 3 cups of Japanese tea and enjoyed the change in the taste of the tea leaves until the end. It was time to start loving the rain. Thank you for the lovely time :) I passed by the store I stopped at yesterday. After all, this building is wonderful:) I also really like the Mizuiro Ind clothes I'm wearing today:) At the end of our trip to Kyoto, we decided to take a walk around Kiyomizu Temple. I stopped by Ousu no Sato, a famous umeboshi shop in Kyoto. There is ``Hakuju no Ume,'' a pickle made with garlic, lots of plum meat, and bonito flakes. We love this and buy it every time we come to Kyoto :) The staff introduced us to various pickles :) Mmmm! It's so good!!! This is sure to go great with rice It's a gochujang-flavored pickle. You can tell that it's delicious even if you don't eat it:) It was the perfect pickle for those of us who are addicted to Korean seasonings:) We also sampled a variety of other things, including the standard pickled plums and tea made with plums. :) As we headed toward Kiyomizu-dera Temple, we came across Shichimi-ya Honpo, a shop specializing in shichimi chili peppers that has been in business for 360 years. We have traditional Japanese spices such as the famous shichimi chili pepper, sansho pepper, and yuzu powder. The popular Japanese pepper was sold at a limit of one per person. The staff taught us how to use it in a delicious way:) The soup with Japanese pepper in the dashi soup was surprisingly delicious...! Wow... Yuzu is also delicious...! Apparently they used this. The soup is made using the very popular dashi &quot;Obanzai no Moto&quot;. I happened to see a nice shop and decided to stop by. This shop seems to place importance on making sweets that are in keeping with the times while respecting Japanese tradition. There are many delicious-looking sweets :) The most popular menu is &quot;Butter Dorayaki&quot;. First, let's have the &quot;Peanut Butter Dorayaki&quot;. Dorayaki dough containing brown sugar is sandwiched with peanut butter filling and caramelized walnuts. The sweet and fragrant filling is accented with walnuts, making it delicious:) And this is the most popular butter dorayaki. Fermented butter and red bean paste are sandwiched between meringue and white bean paste dough. It was a nice space with a pleasant breeze. Finish your trip at Kiyomizu-dera Temple. Ever since I was a child, I have always visited Kiyomizu-dera Temple when I come to Kyoto:) On this day, the scenery from the stage of Kiyomizu was spectacular, and I looked at it to my heart's content. Kyoto is always beautiful no matter how many times I visit. It was a trip that made me realize once again the charm of Japan. Thank you to everyone in Kyoto for a wonderful trip :) Thank you for watching! I hope to see you again :) And hope you have a good day!