When I learned about this math ratio, it Okay, so I'm going to explain in this video a math and design also referred to as &quot;Phi.&quot; So what is the going to put out the sequence of numbers really just the Golden Ratio in a at this Golden Ratio sequence of numbers, formula. And I'm not a math person, so simple. Okay, so you just start with 0+1=1. And now to get to the next number in the sequence, you take the to the last number in the equation. So 1+1=2 and then 1+2 = 3. And it's actually starts showing up. As we arriving at a set of numbers: 2, 3, 5, 8... adding the sum of the equation to the arrive at this sequence of numbers. ratio actually remains consistent no mathematical formula. And so this around the rate and the ratio of 1 to a 1 to 1.6 ratio is compare it to a 1 to 1 envision a little more than half of the other side. Alright so this ratio 1 to 1.6 This is the ratio that's called is what the Golden Ratio looks like as a making incremental Golden Ratio points spiral looks like when it expands Now this is all well and good, but what Well, a lot actually. And that's because many things flourish when they go to the this sequence. Growing and expanding to allows the maximum amount of rain to be plants. And remarkably when you study numbers like 3, 5, 8, 13, all of that again of plants, as well as in the number of Next time you're bored and have a seeds in the sunflower spiral-- the Golden spiral, like a pinecone or pineapple. So of flowers, and plants, and fruit... I mean, this Golden Ratio sequence on a small sequence in the spirals of our storms. this golden sequence 1 to 1.6! Even the But it doesn't stop there-- modern the far-reaching scope of the Golden to the spirals of our Milky Way galaxy, of planets. want you to hold out your arm and shoulder and your elbow. And then from Notice how your elbow from your shoulder elbow to your fingertips is &quot;1.6.&quot; Pretty crazy huh? but doesn't stop there. your fingertips to your wrist is &quot;1&quot; and Keep it going-- from the bottom of your fingers is &quot;1&quot; and from is &quot;1.6.&quot; Now check out the getting freaked out yet? Think about this: then belly button to your feet &quot;1.6.&quot; From your toes to your knees, and from your knees to your hips-- Golden teeth are so much bigger? Golden ratio! it, your whole body is the symphony of listening to this video, the sound waves perfect golden spiral. Scientists have is necessary for the human brain, the lung system. The golden ratio sequence is forms the very rhythm of our heartbeat This is pretty amazing if you ask me! The think that these beautiful intricacies edge with the incomprehensible constants and quantities which allow the I mean it's unfathomable! No wonder we creative power. I mean, we are fearfully universe that is designed and hardwired which, I think it's interesting that the ancient Biblical texts. Scholars have design measurements of things like the Golden Ratio is an exact match to so we've seen how the Golden Ratio is own heartbeat. So naturally, it's going to It is believed that the Greeks used the and many instruments are actually the amount of black keys and white keys it should be no surprise that you see the musical scales and notes align scientists, mathematicians, and artisans have been incorporating it into their throughout history. For some reason, composed and designed with the Golden like the Parthenon in Athens-- you can see Painters have also been incorporating designs because it gives the composition obsessed with it, century, you see the ratio being used in of the canvas, or the placement of the Ratio is one of the reasons artists center. But you don't have to go to the Golden Ratio in human design. I mean, grocery store. design, logos, and in branding all the is pleasing on the eye, and it can be design problems. I remember when I first I began to see it everywhere, and it's in nature and in the design world, and their designs by using its sequence. So sequence that pops up again and again, to go and look and find places where you have to take around a measuring notice where you see this ratio come up will be surprised-- and perhaps, even, this your life.