My name I'm 42. I live in Land of Lakes, Florida, I'm in the Tampa and I'm married I started having a lot I get, I started noticing when my husband would very slow, so he wouldn't why I was getting so nauseous every time I would start having, extreme and it would come Sometimes it would minutes or, As the year went on, I started developing I had an urgency to, However, nothing would ever I would be there I'd always find So that kind of, started coming about as well. I then started chest pain and, it just all started. It was just a lot of I just didn't know So because of my cancer diagnosis, I had breast cancer, So it's been 15 years So in my head, it was cancer again. So I tried going to I had allergy tests I saw my my, I went to a cardiology I went to Had all these tests nothing would ever come, always be like, So as the year the symptoms I, I then, I was finding And after I would get extremely towards it was actually So I just, I knew something And yet all these doctors all the symptoms, like, like any abdominal, that there are out It's just everything to mask what was really going on. So towards it was around I went to, the E.R.. I just went to, like, one of the little I went in, they did The doctor came back you're fine. And, you just need and take a stool softener, So then I go home, It's just frustrating it just kept And, I just felt like were listening it wasn't months after that the symptoms got I happened to be going my yearly. I went, I told him about the pain and he's he goes, we'll just send you a simple ultrasound could have helped So he sent me. And that night, after I had it done, it doesn't look good. They found a huge mass on my omentum, and, so he said, for another test. And go ahead with, with contrast. And so I went Had that done, he called me again and schedule with Moffitt They had planned that the total hysterectomy and get and then I would start my chemotherapy So they sent me scans and bloodwork the pre-op and all And, we met back about the oncologist and, she said We're not going to be We found that there was cancer up and by your heart. Which makes sense why I was having all so it was all just So she. She said, start you right away, and you're going to every three weeks. And so they started me cargo. I think Taxol. So it was every three weeks was seven hours So the first time around, when I did they didn't have all of the things I feel like it's just And I feel like cancer is everywhere So when I had to go through breast cancer I had the double 12 rounds of chemo, and I lost Now they have, these they call that's when I wanted because I knew that I was going and all over again, old emotions I know it's just hair, how women identify And so, you know, it's it's the little thing that I could do a little more normal look at myself stuff like that. So I opt to do that. But after my four my first four they did the scan again, because I was positive that the chemotherapy, is very receptive to, the Brackett gene. So, after every single they measured the CA1 25, lab that they do when I first So the normal range And when I was uary, it was, 3300. So after every time I would have measure the k 125 in half. And, it was just those numbers go down like it so after I had the other scan, all these spots around my clavicle they disappeared. So I was cleared I got into surgery on, April and the doctor on doing getting the momentum. Fallopian tubes, ovaries, girl goodies out. And then I'd be done. It'd be a couple and I'd be all set. So my husband was waiting in the waiting I don't understand So he went back is everything okay? And so, he ended up, when my, oncologist there was cancer on my my bladder, my in addition to all So she personally, said that she, like, hand up behind my, my and scraped off this And she just went So, instead of a I have a it's going vertically down the middle And that pain when I woke up. I literally remember husband saying, It was. It was Just not the cut But, I mean, she messed with every single organ in there. So I had a lot of breathing problems the cancer So that was, a pretty Just, I remembering, like, every so often, like, I felt like I couldn't and I'd be gasping for situation. So I had about 3 to 4 weeks that They did. Sent me home Which that was fun that from the kids I put the bag inside like a little fabric bag. After I recouped, the chemo, Three and I finished on And, they started me on a drug called, And it's the cells and, just the cancer growing back Scientifically, what it does, but So I get on that pill, a month, I end up back at the hospital they had to give me, platelet just because dropped my it was And so, the, infusions and, then after about a month after that, they put me on a new So that's what I've been on And, I do go back monthly for my K 125 and to meet I have been cancer last July, so that's good. I thought, I really didn't I would make it in May last year. And I just remember when I got diagnosed, you hear stage four, it's scary. And and there's not I, to, meet that are past a year So it's it's I wish there was more avenues with, are like And they're like I, I know it's thing and it's scary. And so I think that's my fears are now But my husband my rock He was extremely and he just what he had to do and what we are But he, he was He was always, encouraging And, it wouldn't like, after the kids went to sleep and I hobbled up once I went and I closed the door and locked it, like I just would break down crying and, I had to give myself kind of grieve and go because so much it just to keep And so even today, it's still hard not to think about because it's But it has gotten as I see how strong well my body does to all of this and at some point, I really wasn't but I, I needed to, lean on something, and I don't know you know, I think of my great grandma up there or I, I know someone's and that, I'm definitely because I went through and most women when they get all of that, there's cancer on more than five of to their heart and it's just crazy and I'm I'm able and my husband, and I'm just happy and that I was I have, I have family in I'm extremely close I have great neighbors down here. So I have a lot of support system, and I think that helps We did end up I wanted to wait it was a year the year celebration We sat down our kids, was like, you know how Because I have I have So my kids always knew that my stomach's stuff like that. So they think I went and the doctor took They didn't realize that the doctor my husband and I got pretty good, Talk, like, coming up with how to how to talk about the cancer realizing what So we got But then just I'm just like, It's here out. I'm healthy, I just need what I went so they understand and that they can you know, or be there for me and feel like they're So, we promised them come back again, we would let them know and they would be Just at the time didn't feel like But now I have their support, and they love dressing they call it Pink So now they have Teal So they love They love the walks. We go and all I go back bloodwork They said do any scans unless I had abdominal pain or or something I felt something So, that's But I know always the healthiest to keep doing And all of that, but, So, yeah, I feel safe. At least I do. I'm. I'm monitored closely, and it's not just, oh, I go like, I'm there So I kind of like being followed So and it just your fears I'm going to try Lynparza. As, long as I possibly can and, I, I definitely I do a lot of research and there's just so that are natural that that I feel just So I'm just constantly learning trying to read to other people's Trust your instincts, and all of that. Don't just try and mask with medication. And, because of that, if that was the case, be in this predicament I feel that because and that something was is the reason why So you just got to