This is an ASUS it's a really cool product. you have here It's significantly more powerful Nintendo Switch or really any other manage your expectations around settings any game on the go, You see, this is my ROG Ally and what I've learned is that it's And if I'm being brutally honest, But fear not, and a little bit of elbow grease, That's right. Today we are going to void and we are going to build the ROG packed inside this little handheld APU with an integrated It also has 16 gigabytes of DDR5 memory its weakest spec So the first of all, what I did here was just replacing that And you can see that this is a special compact 30 millimeter to install a larger full sized drive here, First, I wanted to solve an issue that has It cooks SD cards Underneath this and as you may have guessed, So in order to fix that, I borrowed This is fiberglass and aluminum self-adhesive sheets. A few layers of it should keep your memory I'm actually kind of surprised Asus Once I knew that my SD card wouldn't I felt much more comfortable about adding next I want to tackle This is the battery pack It doesn't say anywhere on it, it's about 45 watt hours to an hour and a half of battery life So if you look over here a replacement battery Same voltage, but about twice the capacity And the nice thing is right into it and the battery management In its current configuration, was going to fit inside the ally. This left me with only one choice. I had to fold it. You see, the battery is made up of four separate cells So the first thing I did was cover that PCB in electrical tape And then I carefully folded Big thanks to AllyMods.com, by the way. I read their article about this idea and it kicked off the inspiration Now, obviously, the battery pack But don't worry, because we're going First, though, while we're in the kitchen, to tell you AG1. I am the butt of the joke because of my poor diet. I've been known to partake but I've been making a concerted effort lately, and a big part of supplement Every morning into a little bit of ice, cold water Each scoop contains 75 vitamins, minerals which is nice because now I know that I'm of vitamins and minerals Stuff or would have had to have sourced I've been taking AG1 for the past couple of weeks now a pretty dramatic increase in my energy which is great a YouTube video on a tight deadline probiotics and plant based enzymes But that might be a little bit too So, if AG1 sounds like something you might be interested in Head over to DrinkAG1.com/ZacBuilds Or click the link in the video description You'll get a free one year supply Of AG1 Vitamin D3 and K2 Plus 5 AG1 Travel Packs with your first purchase of AG1 Alright, now lets get back to building the ROG Ally Pro So I figured this might be a good time to do another little side project so that we can crank the performance and also upgrading how we cut the back of the device. So it just makes sense to do that first. From the factory. The ally's heatsink comes painted black, it look pretty cool, but it's going to get So the first thing I did was just use Then I wanted to add some more heat pipes. These copper tubes are filled transports heat from high temperature can see the original heat sink is actually But I wanted to utilize So I marked out a couple of rough and then took them over to my bench place to bend them. in order to make the copper a little But I had to be very careful of the heat pipe, they'll pop up and send And also, you have to be careful when you're bending them, because, well, Thankfully, I rode the line but it wouldn't be the last time So now that we have our two heat they're going to wick heat away from the CPU And that somewhere is going to be like I used in my gaming phone video. its going to go a little something like that But there is a problem. So in my gaming phone video But that won't really work here because will pop if they get too hot. That being said, I think I've come up with a solution I have some damn my fat fingers. I have some low temperature this stuff will melt and then solidify And hopefully it's somewhere below Unlike conventional solid solder, And if you were to look at it very closely it's actually just a bunch It's a lower melting point comes into the alloy and puts it right It's melting Point is low enough that it can be used to braze these heat Yet it's high enough the operating temperatures of the heat That being said, I use very short bursts of the torch my temperatures with a laser thermometer the last step was joining the heat pipes This is the highest temperature So it's where they'll be They'll transport then be carried away by another mod before installing this new and Let's talk about thermal interfaces. So from the factory, the ally's heatsink comes pre-applied And this might actually be Honeywell which is a very effective phase, Basically, the gap between the heat sink of the CPU and effectively transfers there is one product on the market Inside this little syringe here, This, as far as I know, is the most thermally conductive interface However, it's really tricky to work with So before we even get into this, we had to do a little bit of preparation using some 99% isopropyl alcohol, both the heat sink which revealed its Now, the problem with liquid metal not only thermally conductive, So if any of it leaks out, in order to prevent that. I applied a very generous helping This stuff solidifies into a soft rubber by applying it I effectively created a sealed chamber metal from leaking out, which is obviously going to be important liquid metal itself is notoriously hard So rather than squirting it I opted to just put a little bit and then transferred over From there as possible It doesn't need to dry or care. your application, And then to pick up a thread I use this heat shrink wrap to add This is basically the same stuff as heat, shrink Except it's bigger so that it can So now our battery pack is going to sit. Something like that right there. And now we need to figure out how much to cut into the back of the ally. I grabbed one of my favorite home multi-tool. one of the nice things about these saws right into the middle of whatever on, The cut was a bit rough, it didn't need to be super accurate. We'll make it look nice later. For now, I just hacked away the plastic until my new heatsink and battery pack Okay. We just have one last little thing this is the cable that connects And it doesn't really work with our new larger battery So we're going to have to cut into These is way to extend a harness and then add It is important to note, though, should be the same gauge so that you don't add But outside of that, sort of the joints to reinforce them and then add some of the aforementioned So I'm sure many of you are looking what the heck are we going to do with this Well, in order to fix that, We're going to do some CAD modeling and a little bit of 3D And also, So we still got a lot of fun stuff to do. The first thing that I think we're going to need This is just a piece of plastic that's going to sit inside of the ally Above all, the internals Once I had my CAD model fully dialed in. Well, I just 3D printed it. So this is the piece here, ABS, and I printed it at 100% infill. So not only is this very strong and rigid, have a little bit of flex to it, It's also very heat resistant, which is important the ally Inside the shell, there are these four little indents So I figured, why not reuse those? And I made four legs on the bottom of my Obviously, nobody wants their game console because the battery sits in such close I thought it would be prudent to wrapped shielding from earlier. Then in order to connect the battery to the bridge, the next thing that we have to do So I have designed a new backplate This was considerably harder but I think it's going to be worth it. It features improved air intakes, And also I reused a lot of the stock so it should bolt directly to the Ally And again, So not only should it be nice and impact resistant, Everything needed to be mm. Accurate. So the first thing I did was install that screwed into the stock Then I broke up the drill Okay, just kidding. At first, I just made, like, little marks where the holes needed to go. And then I disassembled the ally Once I had the holes done, I reattach machine screws that threaded into nuts And then I CA glued those nuts in place can be removed There we go. Now that that back cover's in place, everything's all buttoned up can easily still reach the rear buttons. It doesn't And as an added bonus, it's upright like this, and play it at this point we could jump right However, if you'd indulge me, I'd like to do I want to build a custom dock rather I've actually already So let's check them out that way fits together. in terms of material, basically fiber reinforced PETG similar to the ABS. It's more heat resistant than PLA kind of matte effect to it. I just love the way this stuff looks and is going to be plenty strong The first piece we have here so that when the ally slots into it, And then if you look around back, it has this cutout here And it's ducted towards the intake vents In order to install the fan, its two power wires And then fan pressure fits in here in order to protect the blades I have this cover that just slots so that it slots is just a little bit of shameless It's a face plate for the dock. But in order to create it, I actually So you see, this is made The base is a white plate, lettering is a carbon And my bambu lab X1, Carbon So at a certain point it just paused the print switch, And that happens right where the lettering and best ways that I found to bond 3D It sets very quickly So with that out of the way, we had how are we going to control this fan? Because you might not want it You might want to just put Well, for situations like that, So we're just going to thread it through So now we need to find a way And in order to do that, I got this PCB It actually started out its life deck dock that I bought off of Amazon. I assumed that but when I got it, which is nice and high quality. But in order to get this out of there, safety glasses. I'm on. give me the PCB. Oh, huh? There we go. Okay, well, But we got it now. So let me show you how Powering this fan was not going to be so they had to get a bit creative. I connected the gray wire from the fan all the wires into this recessed area Then with the PCB in place, You see, one trick I learned almost always have a five volt pin So using my multimeter, it was on the backside of the port and then very carefully soldered This was precise work, but with a little bit of patience, And the ground wire was even easier to one of the grounding legs And the last piece of the puzzle bottom plate And all of our ports are cut out So now we just plug in this Usb-C power The ally slots in like so. then this guy wraps up And now if we throw this switch here, Yeah, look at that. This thing actually moves You can even feel it sucking in air here. Wow, That's crazy. So I took a little bit of time on the ally, let's start with thermals, When you're in handheld mode. You're basically looking at a 15 across the board. And then when you put it in the dock, it's So naturally, the next thing I did Performance and here's Because basically across the board, in performance, which is kind of So as it turns out, the alloy is power obviously that's a little bit I was not going to let As it turns out, there is a way to lift I was able to use in order to raise the power nearly doubling what it can do from for a little bit and also installing I was now rocking a fully unconstrained and I was ready to lay down Or at least that's what I thought. Turns out 54 watts To the APU isn't good for much, other Even in the dark with the fan going. The ally was hanging out right around and performance And that's with almost double I don't know what else to say here diminishing returns are a real b****. You see, processors have a sweet spot per watt. And if you push beyond that limit, well, increases are incremental so now let's talk about battery life. Or actually, maybe we should jump because I feel like I've been living a lie Okay, maybe that's a bit dramatic, When I first installed the bigger battery. Everything was great. I was getting double the battery life bit more than that. It was fantastic. but there was a proverbial fly see, I am cheap. So I ordered a third party battery It was $80 versus the 150 that ASUS in the two weeks or so that it's taken me Well, the battery has since started acting all wonky, so now I am back to the original stock And after talking to some other members of the ally modding scene, If you want a guarantee that well then you need to use a first party So lesson learned. I've ordered one. It's in the mail and when it arrives, next. I missed an opportunity They make these really cool, right? Angle and two adapters how cool would this thing be Also, I think hall effect sticks but currently they don't work very well. You see the triggers are also hall effect. So the magnets crosstalk between them I think overall, if I had to do this knowing what I know now, I would just do the big battery mod, I'd build the dock, The extra cooling performance optimized this machine is By the way, you can just plop the ally down into it a full desktop computer. A Hell, if I wanted to, I could edit on the ally in the dock. Oh, and then I almost forgot I'm going to use it like a video game I'll just put it in my coffee table, and now I've got a gaming And if it's not powerful enough well then I have a solution. One I can use a program called Moonlight PC upstairs And honestly, I've used it a little bit You would not know And on that note, I think we're done here. So in my next video, modernized Nintendo 64 well, then I might just do some DIY Either way, so you don't miss those