Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you. Up 2022 was. I went through a terrible breakup, into some relationships and you Some relationships feel like You're like, well, it's going to be exciting, like, you're not what I need, But I got into this relationship, sent me a text, and all it said was, It's like, that's not good. We're switching formats. I'm fucked. I get the email, and I know And the email, it reads less like an email and more like an emotional List of shit I didn't know was an like. Dear Shane, I feel our two parties And it was just like a list of grievances. It was just like, and you fucking stuff your socks into the couch Yeah. It was like, stop telling people No one thinks it was your idea, I did. I had a flip phone and I had And I was like, I set it I was like, that'd be a good idea. And I kept driving. But what I really think it was about And so she were like, a lot of our friends have gotten married I was sure I was better than. Have you had that happen yet where a fucking loser beats you to a life goal Scrolling through Insta, you're like, Guess they're not as hard I would talk with that He got married three months ago. We have the same job, and I am better And this piece of shit. Yeah, this piece of shit has He has a house on a Lake with jet skis and And I have seen this dickhead buy coke I have a roommate named Buckley. Do you understand how His family is beautiful, And my roommate plays bass. It's the worst instrument to hear alone. What's it sound like? Sounds like you've been watching The fuck it sounds like. He has been nominated for three Grammys. I know. He's legitimate to you? Now, why would someone who's been nominated And the answer is, because If a horse has a funny name, Put it all on God. God in the third at Churchill. But here's the thing. So my former girlfriend, current legal opponent, and I have no designs on marriage, and I So I was like, I got to break up with her. Which I think is the correct thing. You agree? I shouldn't just rob her of her childbearing years to be, like, How old are you? Woof. Ah. I was like, hey, we should talk. And she wrote back, this sounds bad. And I was like, it is. And then she called me, and I received a barrage of insults that they could only come Does that make sense? She'd been sitting on this It wasn't like, you're a fucking idiot. It's like you're going to start over. The way you breathe when You do two breaths in, one breath out. Ha. You sound like an office But I think the hardest part is really when you recognize that someone is because you can't change them So in some sense, at least in this Because my ex is right. I'm weird. Look, I am on the road about 240 days a year, which basically means And I know this about being weird. The more you're alone, I've reached the point now where my alone Like, unbeknownst to me. You ever done that? Just forgot you were in public. It's like I did three weeks ago because I played the big markets But I was at a chili's, and I walked I just go, piss, piss, piss. I got a piss. There are five grown men standing there. Well, none of us feel safe doing that now. Somehow you were not aggressive, It was like the worst Piss, piss, piss. You're a little pooper. That behavior will get worse, I'm sure. But have you ever, like, Chris. You were very attentive. You said it like I woke you up Oh, what's the date, Chris? Christopher. I just realized that Christopher, Topher Grace's name is probably which kind of makes him an asshole I don't know, chris, with a group of friends, but absolute silence, Should have kept that one to myself. Cuckoo's out of the clock now. Reason I bring it up, chris, and it was a Monday night, comics, and we were all talking And one guy was like, what do you guys like to do And one guy was like, I love to hike. And I was like, that's fucking stupid. Will there be bugs? I just hate it. It's bullshit. I want to marvel at something, But another guy was like, I like to drink. And I was like, so fine. And then it got to me, and they were like, what do you like And I didn't soft sell this. I was like, you guys It's like, you know how you go You know how you walk in, behind the counter, Smells like Lincoln or whatever. Don't realize I got an ice cream Hit you with that same winded breath. You're like, hi, welcome to Hilltop. And then I go, my name is Shane Taurus. Can I have my room now? And then they always go, of course. And then I go, And then they always say, And I go, no. It's none of your fucking business But since you're a curious little kitten, One bed is for regular sleeping, and the other bed is And then I get in it and I'm like, Now I'm a cute little prince Look at me while I get there. Tacos, pizza in my sheets. Every country. What a treat. Didn't want me to use it like a napkin. Shouldn't have folded it that way. It. Like, I am not anti child, because people say shit like Like, you want to have a kid, Or it's always the dumbest fuck who's It's like there's no clean water. It's like, dude, I could give We're going to need something to throw But I will say this. I think the end of your life looks I've never seen a man You just got to hope you don't turn And by the. We conflate those words Creepy and weird. They're not. And fellas, you want to land on weird like a weird old guy is Oh, I always got to get the third They sound the best. Speak to me, my salty queen. A creepy old guy. Be like, I flirt with grocery store Because even guys who have great lives, lifelong bachelors like Al Pacino, Have you seen what he looks like now? It's like someone left It's ransacked and its Weird old guy will say some I don't like ethnic food. Guy, do some shit that Like, take bath. Any grown men in here take baths? You're going to draw a bath and then stick It's not ready for this little tea bag. Finally, temperature is right. Time to add my bubbles. And you give the bottle a nice deep squeeze, kind that opens up And then you're going to strip Every man's nude body looks like Have you seen these things, Covered in hair and dirty in the corner. Stop. What do they make these? Out of the back of a knee, down into a perfect white cloud effectively turning it Throw your hairy, wet leg over the side of the tub while the big toe on your Fucking beat it, Epstein. I don't need it. God, gross. I worry. So I'm not supposed to share this under a threat of legal action, Take more of nothing? But I was cast on a tv show. Thank you. Feels like you really I was. I was cast on a tv show for a certain Yeah, it's Netflix. It wasn't canadian hulu. It was a good gig. Netflix calls me and they're like, And I was like, I figured There's a way to get it. And they go, there's just one thing. And I was like, well, what is it? And they said, we have to shoot And I was like, that ain't my favorite. And they say, we'll fly you out, and we'll And I was like, I'll be there. Two bets. And here's the thing. My lease ended at the same time So I was like, I'll just put everything back to, a month for an apartment I don't have that kind of money. I have a roommate named Buckley. But I put everything in storage, and I fly out to LA to capture my dream. And that dream was slated to begin March 4? Thank you. So I fly out to LA in March 4, So I'm sitting in this hotel room. Netflix calls me, and they're like, hey, And I was like, totally get it, And they're like, well, It's like, I'm taking some towels. And I caught around. I found a place to stay, part of the pandemic, but in the beginning, but everybody So you would read shit all the time It'd be like, take tylenol, but don't you dare take ibuprofen It was just crazy shit after. And it would just be like, Five whole days. What do I do without my nickels? If you have a parrot, You're like, I never even heard And one of the things I read or someone told me, I say that a lot, And the people are like, yeah, well, someone said it, that if you leave your house, you should take your shoes outside because You saw that? Were your shoes stolen also? So right here, we're going At the beginning of this story. I was cast on a television show platform, and I was going to be somebody I no longer have a job, You know when you watch, like, and there's a new character out of We love Doug. And you're like, I know one thing. The whole episode, I'm Doug. So later that night, I'm sitting at my friend's kitchen table, And she is in front of me in the kitchen, and she's whipping cream So it's very rockwellian, and it's nice. And we're sitting there just bullshitting, and all of a sudden we And that's a pretty alarming sound I was just like, well, It took my shoes to eat my toes first. Toes are the new shrimp But there was no cannibalism What did happen was we had I swear to Christ. This crazy drunk homeless guy went to the back door, window, reached in, Classic homeless guy, you know, like. And I stood up, and I was I'll kill you, motherfucker. I stood up so fast, It was how I reacted. I was like, well, how about this? Crazy. Who to thump? You go, girl. Like, look, I'm a big guy, I grew up around a lot of machismo. Both my brothers were really tough. Like, one was an amateur boxer, So they say scary shit, So I was like, what would your Like, looks like you blew It. It was also at the point of COVID where if you touch someone with COVID then you ever loved, ensuring you're the bad person So I couldn't touch this guy. So basically, I just dry I was just like, yeah, masha. And the whole time he's had a ta. And while I'm butt fucking this dude out the kitchen door, and whipping cream, remember, pulls out the hand mixer, and points And I got to be like, hey, if you let him lick the spoon, Yeah. And I get into the stoop, Girls, you've seen it. And he falls down the steps. Like, I'm feeling pretty good. Feeling masculine for once Like, fucking this bear And I look down The hobo stole my shoes, Covid. I got hobo Covid on the first day I had a television show, but say, lavie. Topher, did you ever have Covid? When did you get it? I've gotten, like, five times. Jesus Christ, why so little? I had it. Did you lose your sense Yeah. What I am about to tell you And I have used buffalo wing bones No flesh, just bone. Like that. Let's tell you what happened. So this is how I found out I had Covid. It was a few days after I kicked that guy out of the house, and I was in the shower, And I was like, oh, no, And if you can't taste anything, So I got out of this. I know some of you are like, I did not. But I got out. I got out of the shower Why is that funny? Lots of people do that every day. I order a pizza, and it showed up, and I ate all eight slices, I could hear it more And I took down each slice Like, slice one, stage one, denial. This can't be happening to me. Slice two, stage two, anger. It's the chinese fault. Slash three. Oh, what if I put ranch on it? Slice four, stage four, depression. Well, might as well do it in the bathroom. Out with the old and with the new. Slice five, acceptance. I will eat these remaining three twice. Water is good. It. I think the thing I learned from COVID more than anything is that I I mean, like, on a personal level, I do not like the people I agree with, Just everyone sucks now. And it's fucking. Look, I live here in Brooklyn, and I'm a liberal cuck like the rest But I am from a part of Texas that, politically speaking, And I miss conservatives every day Not that I agree with them, but I don't like being told It's exhausting. It's like, I'll be here in Brooklyn talking to my most liberal know, like, I was wondering how that would land. And I disagree with them this much. Like a pubic hair's worth. I say something like, I don't know, man. I know a ton of people I don't think owning a hunting rifle And inevitably, someone will just be like, Did you shoot and eat my papa? Fucking wish I had. Wouldn't have to hear this shit all night. I didn't know that was a thing now. And the other side is, that they didn't know shit, And now that is gone because It's like, well, now that the World has will stop complaining about plastic And it's like, hey, dickhead, That's like, if I went outside and, No more diabetes. Do you understand? The introduction of a new problem Fucking primate. I hate them. I have not drank in six weeks Yeah, well. Which is the longest I But here's the thing. I'm not gonna be sober. Like, you know, like, I. Who the fuck are you people? We were like, I don't touch the stuff. Just got my lord and savior. And you're like, But I have friends who are Have you ever had someone What a fucking bummer. That is what I mean. I've never had a friend whose sobriety was less irritating than their addiction His name's Todd. Something different if you're catholic. Fuck him. But he's sober now, Like, I'd call him be like, hey, man, we're going to go out and have What do you say? And he'd be like, yeah, All right, Toddy. I'm having a barbecue. It's like, I'm going Let's get the kids out of there's. But now he's sober and he fucking sucks. And one of the things that is really that he now thinks he's better than You know? Yeah, it's like a real cheeky fuck. Like, we'll be out to dinner and he'll say something passive aggressive He'll just be like, are you really going to have Yeah, Tod, I'll have I'm not the one with the fucking All of a sudden you're not parking on your You're better than everybody else, Todd. That's a dumb ass name. Who the fuck looks at a newborn baby not yet having sinned in this world, and rest its head on the bosom of its when you say your name But the thing that is really irritating about his sobriety, I'm still stuck on I don't mean his goals. Is there anything more fucking irritating Jesus Christ, I'd rather learn math in. Oh, it's fucking brutal. It's like, yes, please tell me about the thought that was Well, I was at Applebee's It's just exhausting. And like, one person ever had a dream Yeah. Dr. That's a dream worth hearing about. It's like, what's your dream again? It's like, I just think people Cool. Tod. Well, I opened a fortune cookie The doctor came. I think one day that I would love to see of their character and not Todd. Well, I was banging this chick and her Dr. Well, I hope and pray that one day this nation will learn the true meaning of its Tod. Well, we were banging and banging, and then when I came, her face You're a doctor. That. Well, okay, sure. I'll take them if you got them. Oh, you got. You know what sexting is Can't do that. Press too hard on the wrong thing. Thumbsed up my urethra. Ah. The reason I bring it up woman, appropriate age, but I was on the road and I met this young lady and she was like, And I was like, I know. She was like, why don't And I was like, And she's like, not that much. And I downshift a bit So well, in fact, that she's Thank you. But we have not fucked. It's weird that I do this for fucking. Like, oh, it's two butts touching. Call that a moon landing, She's not like a lot of the women I meet in New York are always like, Or, that's my purse. So the point I'm trying to get to is like, So she texted me, and she was like, well, what do you want And I wasn't like, your mouth She's like, I don't know what chum chum is, She's like, what do you want So not being a creep, just kind of sticking my toe in the pool, I'd say, maybe we'll just get a bottle And then she texts back, And I had to be like, me too. Like, as well. Not the movement. Guys can do it too. But here's the thing. Like, look, I'm dumb, I realize when a young woman sends you a message like that, it requires some So point being, that's Liggety split. That ain't some shit you can let You can't be like, oh, sorry, Time got away from me. You still petting your cat? And I'll be honest, with the shit she And the things I have She's like, you're going I'm like, that's the only way I do it. In my mind, we're like, Who could possibly have the core Just crazy shit. Like, you're going to be What are we even talking about? Gross and super hot. It's weird when someone says something disgusting to you and you're like, But we're in the middle of all this digital filth, and she texts me and she Also, she spelled come C-O-M-E-I What a strange woman to be. To be like, I'm a whore in the sheets, Suck me, fuck me. Use more commas. And she's like, you about to come? And I was like, not until you In reality, I was basically asleep. I already had my body pillow out. I put it in between my knees. It helps my hips Down there's. You better come. And I say, yeah, I'm about to come. She goes, call me. I want to hear you come. And I was like, I don't think you do. He's going to pick up And I'll be, are you turned on? Now there's a plump, sweaty boy alone in his room who just Had to put my phone in a bag of rice. What do you think that's I have no idea how this happened, but Get on it. I'll finish with this. Thank you very much for coming. I really appreciate it. I really mean it. It means a lot. And you guys all seem like very good people, but what do you. No. Have you ever had a horrible Do you know that feeling like, of a shithead fuck just being like, Like, you're going to be just fine. I have seen you steal dogs. It is bizarre to connect And I'll tell you why. When I left Texas, And my first place in Portland was. It was a. It's nice. And what it was, it was the top And there were four bedrooms, and each bedroom got like a mattress on And they were like, this is now. And you're like, well, So no kitchen, and you would share I want to be clear. I took my own toilet paper to the bathroom every morning, Otherwise my neighbor Ron would steal it. And there were four of us there, right? And you have not met a collection of men trying to hit bottom and then constantly My best neighbor was this guy named Scott who never wore pants, That was my best neighbor. That guy fucked up the curve Another one was a disbarred And I asked him once, I was like, And he just goes, well, That sounds like a story. And the third guy was a truck And what you need to know He knew that I was from Texas, So he would just call me Like, I'd be leaving for work and he'd go, So specific. The other thing you need to know about Ron is that he had a real proclivity A lady of the night, prostitutes. He would call them toots. And that almost made it seem okay. Yeah, he's like, I'm going to go I was like, I bet you are, Ron, Your sex crime sounds like a fun pancake. So it's New Year's Eve, And I love New Year's. love knowing I'm not going to complete I don't have to be disappointed. You can just accept it. But it's New Year's Eve, and I'll be honest, and we're doing coke Just fucking like, I'll be your little skater boy. Yeah, give me some more And Ron is celebrating how And we hear him, and it's gross. And we hear him finish, And it's right before midnight, chilling out, having a drink, and just Mine's to get clean. And right before midnight, we hear this woman just start going, And you always gonna be Ten, nine. Well, this loser just came on your face. Eight salmon. And it goes back and forth like this until finally we hear Ron go, And then we hear Ron go. And then we go, happy New Year's. And then there's a thud. It's just a room next to another room. There's no sense of safety. So the attorney and I are just And he goes, what do we do? And I was like, that's a thing. You should know it. And he goes, go to the door. And I was like, yeah, I go to the door. I said, just let me do all this evidence. And I go to the door and it's like I open couldn't be much longer than this stage if doorframe door is open profile view he's and he turns and there is a barbecue fork down the side staining his underwear red in a target bag call the cops thank you guys very much Yeah you guys were great. see you on the next thank you so much I never high has grown so cold no pretty boy just six sack of to see