This video is sponsored by The Magnus Archives. skies around the world lit up with In some places the heavens glowed red Elsewhere broad bands of white light were seen skies around the world glowed so brightly that Everywhere, people gathered and gazed upwards, The vast majority had no idea and could only assume that it was Reports exist from many different that could be seen during the week In Boston, the sky glowed red to such a degree a fire burning over the horizon... at least Elsewhere, witnesses reported seeing and spoke of multi-coloured rays and arches One account in the San Francisco Herald ran as something like a field of grain in a high wind. hues of the aurora. Nothing could exceed the was almost bewildering, and was witnessed with Such was the brightness of these lights that many had arrived. A group of masons in South Carolina realizing that it was still the middle of the conductor, angered by the sound of larks singing just 1:00am) got out his pistol and shot three At the same time, in Ohio, the sight of the night sky illuminated like a Christmas tree Over the course of the week-long event she the strange lights heralded the end of the world. At the same time as the heavenly light into a frenzy of fear and wonder, telegraph bizarre and unexpected difficulties. Something telegraph operators received electric shocks and or witnessed sparks and arcing from telegraph to their surprise, that they could unhook their Operators on the American Telegraph after briefly marveling that they went about their business sending the messages Newspapers during the week of the event were and the disruption of the telegraph system. In some cases this was all that could be services meant that no news dispatches All in all these events defied explanation, signs of the coming apocalypse. The actual and would be uncovered by the report of a British 1st of September, 1859, he was in his private busily monitoring sunspots. Sunspots are dark and Carrington had devoted a great deal as he believed that their importance was While he was busy with his work, two patches of intense white light appeared and then disappeared. Intrigued, Carrington made a would later send to the Royal Astronomical Although he didn't know it at the two in a series of solar flares. Solar flares are are almost always accompanied by the ejection course the sun constantly emits Usually we are completely protected from these by radiation from the solar wind from harming us, Only a tiny amount of the material delivered Because of the orientation of this is most likely to happen at the North in the phenomenon we know as Aurora Borealis, the sun releases much more material than When this is directed towards the Earth Aurora The solar flares witnessed by Carrington had plasma on its way towards Earth. That evening, would be seen again around the world. It would be allowed the flares and the bizarre activity in it was decided that the event should be Carrington would have every reason to be After all, the Carrington Event made headlines disruption it was far from deadly. At the time scientific discovery - not something that would The significance of the Carrington In 1859, electrical technology was relatively piece of technology in widespread use that was much more of the world's infrastructure Which begs the question: what would happen Unlike in 1859, it's fairly likely that we'd might affect the Earth. Systems currently in place and the long-term effects of the event would A quick and coordinated response would involve event offline for its duration. In this best would mean a week of severe disruption On the other hand, there is the worst or where we don't have sufficient warning This would result in some of the most extensive loss of communications, and the Planes would be grounded, hospitals left in Card-based transactions would be impossible, would be offline, supply chains would crumble. The years in terms of technology... and this wouldn't If power grids were not taken offline to damage could be caused. Given the scale of some as long as 10 years to completely recover from Finally, it should also be stressed that it really but it is thought by many might strike the Earth on average once every more than 160 years since the Carrington If you enjoyed this or any of my stories, you'll a horror fiction podcast that was The premise of The Magnus Archives is simple: each week features a different case file an ancient London-based organization dedicated to These are my favorite parts of each episode. odd bit of monster horror, and they're presented In addition to that, there's also an following the experiences of several Magnus archive's collections, attempting It's extremely well made, superbly creepy, and 200 episodes... which means that you can binge like it. I was genuinely thrilled when The Magnus and I'm not the only one who thinks they're multiple awards and has a huge, dedicated fan this is definitely something worth checking out. search for The Magnus Archives wherever you listen