How Shall I Act In The World? I want you to ask yourself, &quot;Why did the purpose of coming here?&quot; You're looking for a solution, You're looking to change your life. And as long as you do that you'll never find it. There's no problem on earth By truth I mean understanding your reality. It makes no difference what It makes no difference what's going If you would only turn within yourself, It begins by first resolving yourself, This is the only way, for remember, the What you see within yourself, what you feel This is why all the great Masters and the kingdom of God and its righteousness, In other words, find out the truth about yourself. if you think you're a sinner, if you think you're going to see those things in the world, People who have problems with people, who only see negative conditions, do so because The world is very flexible. It has no cause, no substance. You are the world. When you unfold, when you discover the truth that you are pure consciousness, You are not what you think you are. You're not what you think you are. You must stop believing that you are flesh and in which to live on this earth. does not exist as it appears. And your so-called problems, You must go beyond it. Do not believe me. Dive deep within yourself. You may appear to have a The world is not the world that you think it is. There is a substratum of all existence. It is absolute reality, pure awareness. That is what you are. The person is not God, the body If you identify as God how can Can God have a problem? Can God believe something is wrong? are God is because of your orthodox upbringing. deity up in the sky, and if I tell you That only shows me that you You believe you are a body, and there is got to pray to, and if he is in a If he's not feeling too good that day, People still believe that. It's your life. what you accept, becomes your lifestyle. This is why everyone sees a different world. It stands to reason therefore, Why not experiment? What is God? What is consciousness? conscious of itself as pure awareness. of yourself. You are that. The whole universe is happiness, joy, love, peace. you see it within yourself. seeing yourself as a loving person, And then you will drop the person, and omniscience, omnipotence. There is no other power but you. been dwelling on occult powers, trying to find the It has never been outside of yourself. the Kimberley diamond mines. Africa to discover mines, diamonds. So he sold all his possessions and he moved he went out searching for diamonds. He was never able to find any diamonds. of property and the shack that he lived in. His name was Kimberley, and he sat When the guy left Kimberley moved a The diamonds were always at the They had been at his feet all the time. fields were discovered. Everything you're looking for is within you. Everything you want is within you. everything you can imagine is within you. But when I say Self, I The omnipresent Self is your real nature. A question I'm asked over and over again atma-vichara, how shall I act in the world? What should my attitude be? happen anyway, so what should I do in the world?&quot; but you should act as if it's not. &quot;It doesn't matter what I do. what's the difference? I'm supposed to do it anyway.&quot; are making the decision and you will have That's how you should act in the world. everyone and everything, not only to human You should treat everything with loving kindness. disposition and stop getting angry. You should not be concerned You should not be concerned with But every reaction of yours should be based on Do not try to analyze it. The world will react to you accordingly. And as you practice on yourself, Leave people alone. Do not look for problems. Yesterday is gone and it can never come back. Do not regret the past, it's You are not a sinner. makes no difference what you've done. Look at yourself as total Expect nothing and you'll never be disappointed. Give of yourself. Why do I do what I'm doing here? What do I want? I'm not looking to be recognized as anything. I never asked for it. My experiences in self-realization, I It unfolded by itself. can experience self-realization. You've got to stop fighting the Let things unfold as they may. The signs of spiritual progress are thus: get upset, but now you are aware of it. allowed your anger to take you over completely. But now as you're practicing &quot;Who am I?&quot; angry you are aware that you are angry. and the anger goes away. and all of your moods that you've And when the situation confronts you of a it and not immediately react. What's happening to you is you're You're beginning to understand, I am not my anger, I am not my depression.&quot; various moods that I mentioned before, only now You're catching yourself and you're asking Who feels out of sorts? You may still not understand completely, but surely that you are not the condition. the condition is part of the bodily feelings. times when I am happy, there are times when I But I is always present. And just by asking that You realize there's a war But what is the truth about this? And the answer comes, I am. Then where does the war come from? Where do all these dastardly And as you keep inquiring, you will realize Yet all these things are attached to the I. the anger, it all belongs to the I. I feel it, I feel out of sorts.&quot; the I to the heart center everything disappears. it was never real to begin with. The reason that I can say truly to you that like a dream, that disharmony is not is because somehow I have been able to see the beyond waking, dreaming and sleeping. whereas everything else appears to be reality. the world appears real, your body You are beyond that. experienced this state of consciousness, I'm speaking to you of a state of perfect peace This is a true state. It is real to me, just like And even if I were involved in the war all around me, I would not be afraid. know what exists and what doesn't. I am somewhat like the chalkboard Iraqis fighting Americans, people and that appears to be going on in the blackboard. and it's gone, but the blackboard remains. and everyone is living in peace for a while. they're quarreling over property, they're and everything else, and then that's erased. So somehow I am aware that And all these happenings are The blackboard is consciousness and I am that. in the mirror. You can only grab the mirror. The chalkboard is always the same, But somebody asks, &quot;That's all right as far as But how come those incidents seem to appear? And the best analogy I can give you is are ineffable, these higher realms. There is nothing you can do to And the analogy is of the dream world. there's a war, and you're in the army and and you get wounded. and I tell you, &quot;This is not real. No one is killing and no one has been killed.&quot; I'll show you.&quot; And I appear to be killed. All this was a dream. It's difficult to say to you that the world and some of you really feel the world very deeply. in the world, the more the world controls This is why self-inquiry is called found to be the fastest way to awaken. situation in the world confronts you, and Say you're watching the TV tonight, and you're Instead of feeling the situation, Who sees this the way it is? Of course you have to do this by yourself. They'll send you to the happy farm. understand that it is a part of the dream, and This is the beginning of wisdom, when Most people cannot say this The world is so powerful to them, that The world gets to them first and Why everyone can see there's a war going on. yet to practice self-inquiry. They should say something like this, I don't know if this is real or not. I surrender to you totally, Do with me as you will. All of a sudden you will start feeling very happy. yourself to God, surrendering completely, the God you've been surrendering and you will be able to practice self-inquiry. submit yourself to God, you should practice Do not let a day go by where If you have to pray, pray. to God completely, do that, but the Whatever happens in your life, whatever you Do not attempt to analyze the condition. Say you're going through some kind of bankruptcy. Do the best you can, but do Dwell on your sat-chit-ananda. Dwell on God. your heart on the right side of your chest. It has nothing to do with The spiritual heart is in Why is it there? When you speak about yourself, you always point Say, someone says, &quot;Hey, you.&quot; And you point to the right side of your chest, You do it inadvertently. because that's where your spiritual heart resides. spiritual heart, a sphere of And in the center of the light, you Perhaps if you're of the Jewish Christians can see Jesus. Just by doing that alone, you will feel a sense And after a while, see your until you are totally immersed in the Sage. And see the Sage expanding also, expanding again whole universe is immersed in the Sage. Sage, and I am that. If the whole universe is immersed in the I and my father are one. That's a beginning. The reason I am sharing these things with you Do not get caught up by the world. what you see, what you hear, what you Transcend it. God will think of you, because you're one. keep thinking of your problems, and your needs and you will be caught up in all of this. universe and everything in it is like a dream. The mind. The Self? It doesn't. It's like the examples of hypnosis I give you. be real that is not. But yet as long as you're We're all hypnotized. the world is real, my body is real, my mind is As you practice these things You'll catch yourself reacting It makes no difference how As long as you can catch yourself and say, Who is feeling down and out? I do. And you follow the I thread to your heart center. You abide in the I. Still the mistake some people are making they are concentrating on the I. you concentrate on the Self. By abide I mean you follow the I, you observe But your focus is on the source. There's nothing else. explain these things, the more confused you get. teacher, to make sure that the teacher has and not something they read in That's the only way you can With a person who's been there. go to a psychologist or a psychiatrist, the only of the psychiatrist or psychologist, not He may know the subject matter backwards and and he has no idea what life is about, but has a out of him or her what he or she is. person what they are, not what they say. office and it feels as if you have been helped. turns into a different problem, due able to be helped on the level of the therapist. So it is with spiritual life. If you are sincere, and if you really want to within you will lead you to a guru outside of you. and the guru on the inside will So you have to analyze your life right Do not fool yourself. See where you're really at, what you really And try to understand that one of these maybe tomorrow, next week, next month, next year. know by now does not bring happiness. Compare yourself with no one. Learn to love yourself, to be yourself. you appear to be, that you are sat-chit-ananda. You are pure awareness. That is your true nature. See it. Worship it.