This is the disaster scenario--it's Black a massive supply of scarce ninth generation game them at a massive discount--offering buyers sell the devices on. With a three per person of dollars just by standing in line. it's more of a mass, filling out the width of the its 9:00 am opening time. The contracted security through to the entrance, and get on a megaphone There are only 500 consoles, we will not be able orderly line this way." The crowd does not comply. the security team decides to carefully let small that the store and its staff does not get stormed. a crowd crush. It's entirely predictable. The back supply of consoles, will each individually, of the crowd will get compacted down, individuals and an unlucky few will get asphyxiated--they quite unable to adequately breathe. Their closest way forward, but the security, tasked with keeping the for entry as an inevitable dynamic of a greedy, three groups have different incentives--the the security to keep the crowd out, and the core lead to the same result: an ever escalating crush. do not end up crushing themselves, so all-too-believable situation that Well, it starts with who the people are. You gatherings of people almost inevitably devolve in the collective dehumanizes the individual and dangerous way--but more recent research has in the exact situation where you'd expect panic, and work selfishly--in emergencies--people to start in an overcrowded building, you might push those in front just to get away from the Of the 21 major crowd-crushes to have occurred so away from a deadly threat--one in Yemen spurred by worshipers fled to escape a church fire. This is fire is clearly a stronger incentive than gaining curious as to why the frequency of crushes was so Consider a common anecdote--on a normal flight, shoulder with their fellow traveler for four presence once. But as soon as a flight gets they start problem-solving, they get flight gets canceled, this cooperation often strangers just minutes before might decide to to their destination instead. Crowd psychologists and they think they have an explanation. around the airport, there is little shared it is shared by so many. But when a flight gets now it's distressed traveler--a unique identity have found is that, the greater the degree cooperation among a crowd. They've even been evacuation of a London underground station, study person if that person was wearing the jersey of Conveniently, most events involve a shared of a religion, protesters for a cause, there is the assembly which helps to keep order even when And this can help to explain the infrequency day in the London underground, the mass's there's an explosion. In that moment, identity everyone is a victim of the same rare disaster. In interviewing victims observed a through-line of and countless examples of selfless, cooperative This is observed in almost any disaster--there far beyond what might often be portrayed in crush-free evacuations. But another curious is quite rare for them to occur during civil mentality. The only major crush to occur during disaster, in Indonesia, but that was caused by a police-fired tear gas--not by the riot itself. The caused by police intervention during 2016 protests during a riot, it is yet rarer to find one where strange. According to traditional theories people they act savagely, feeding off the energy of in which one would expect the highest degree of the football or concert or ritual-going masses. Hajj pilgrimage--one of the world's largest events Mecca to visit the spiritual center of the world's of event where one would expect to see high crowd shared identities of Muslim and pilgrim, all two of Ihram, or ritualistic purity of the body and to break branches from trees, and yet, this century's most deadly crowd crush tragedies--each Considering the history, researchers have long psychology, and one important conclusion came Kaaba. This stone structure is said to be the so one of the most significant elements of the the Kaaba. There are two main areas in which surrounding the Kaaba, or on the balconies above. an unobstructed view of the Kaaba, whereas the view for some. Researchers questioned how cooperativeness, and therefore surveyed more than the balconies, the area where there is a more how much one pushes and shoves to get that best That's to say, as competitiveness In riots, though, there is little something to be gained or lost, and therefore only that, but there is typically a strong a group of people gathered together in support two of the strongest predictors of lowered crowd organized events manage to avoid the worst. far more organized events that time and time have spent a good bit of money buying tickets and a concert or a sporting match or something, but the event is starting and they're still outside. crush in San Salvador, El Salvador; a 2022 crush Madagascar; 2017 in Lilongwe, Malawi; 2017 in crush scenario that still occurs. examples in developing countries for this What makes a good concert, according to and that's unassigned seating. In a festival seats of any sort are a rarity and VIP tickets--as provide benefits in the form of easier access and facilities, from small local venues to massive ticket options--seated tickets, and floor tickets. crowd experts, they're seen by concert-goers and just low-energy, lifeless experiences. Because floor seating where energy is high and crowd all its appeal to everyone but the organizers, Cincinnati was entirely banned from 1979 to 2004. concert on December 3, 1979. A much anticipated unassigned seats available at Cincinnati's be a celebration, not a watershed moment in crowd Of course, in any unassigned seating environment people push their way to the front. In this compounded. In order to get in the best position lined up outside the venue. Afternoon then gave and once the venue finally opened, those at the swing wide to welcome nearly 20,000. Impatience delay in entry. Then at the sound of a late sound the dam broke. The push began from the back, far was felt at the front, where people poured through and without shoes while others ripped at the the line, but to release the building pressure. crushed, leaving 11 dead and dozens injured. character of those involved--their motives, the culture that they ascribed to. This much, is a recurrent theme: at sporting matches, its youth culture; at religious events, it's What blaming a selfish, crazed crowd doesn't and understaffed security ushering nearly 20,000 for people rushing those doors not to get the it doesn't account for those at the back but a lack of understanding as to the pressure also fails to account for the fact that once individual agency goes out the window. In fact, people per square meter--a mark that's considered lose the ability to control their own movement rippling through the crowd. At this point, closer to fluid dynamics than anything else. disconnect between security, the front of the inability once caught in the crush to do anything informed what's now known as the Who disaster. and factors that stemmed from a poorly prepared factors and their causes that event organizers Cincinnati went the furthest with an outright ban US began adopting stricter regulation requirements Association, a non-profit institution that authors adoption, entirely rethought aspects of its Life Since the Who disaster, the landscape of live Today, most seats are assigned and those that security. Entry and exit strategies, meanwhile, but heavily planned out, redundant, practiced crush on account of entrance issues and unassigned 2020 European Football Championship final, videos famed Wembley stadium began surfacing on social had shown up en masse for the final with the idea were successful, as 2,000 forced their way into crowds reached dangerous densities in the surge, findings from a following investigation reported to charge the stadium had England pulled off the of Europe's finest sporting venues was on the More recently, in January of 2023, north of London of a more ruly disposition arrived at Sheffield find themselves hopelessly packed into two narrow safety protocol, the turnstyles were even opened but once inside, the delay of fans identifying and seats were covered, resulted in people piling the air to relieve the mounting pressure. the blame for the ten deaths and hundreds of Houston Texas has circulated between the artist and the Austin-based organizer, ScoreMore, in the that's rather irrefutable was bad venue design. Home to the NFL's Houston Texans, this 350-acre up to 200,000 people. For the Astroworld Festival, fire chief to a maximum capacity of 50,000. But but the layout of the venue. Broken into would disperse between the secondary and they did. But then the music ended on the second primary. As the headliner, the anticipation was and with the delay the crowd began to grow as north. Because of the location of barricades that though, this additional thrust of people wasn't it pushed an already dense crowd into what became occurred in this quadrant of the crowd--a function Of course, with the benefit of hindsight, the crowd; a poorly managed event; and a largely deadly traps is easy to identify. But bad Take this bridge complex, for example. This bridge sole conduit that moves muslim pilgrims by the to the Jamarat pillars for the sacred practice to stone, though, and--as of this century--over two to take part in this Hajj ritual, this has been 251 pilgrims died in a crush at the pillars. In of the pillar's walls to allow for better crowd In 2006, another 345 died in a crush on the just weren't working, so the Saudi government $1 billion, the bridge was widened by 260 additional floors and a massive awning to protect signaling in no uncertain terms Saudi Arabia's single largest annual events. With the ability to nearly two decades on since its completion, accommodating ever growing crowds. And yet, for it hasn't solved Saudi Arabia's crowd crush where pedestrian street 206 intersects with T-intersection with street 204, Saudi Arabia in and likely ever, with an estimated 2,400 pilgrims commuter routes within eye shot of the nation's just hours, a problem that seemed fixed at the infrastructure's nearest weak point. or really any incident, the cause of the crush perfect, varying mix of an uncooperative crowd, and a bit of bad luck. But of course, prediction festival crush, there are countless rowdy mosh doorbuster sale gone wrong, there are far more retailer desires. It is effectively impossible because people love these risky situations. simple and rather boring--proper planning to risk factors, and the ability to identify and every incident involves the failure of one exact moments when a crush occurs might not be for why they occur almost inevitably is. the Hajj escalated to a point where they were a the aftermath of the 2,400 fatality 2015 Mina significantly due to the number of Iranian incidents, Saudi Arabia finally realized they huge amount of money into designing a safer, more technology, psychology, and more, the modern Hajj and has run accident-free since the 2015 crush. this video, there simply wasn't time so rather we about the Logistics of Hajj. Like all episodes creator-founded and creator-run streaming service we make. We all upload our videos to there early to fund big-budget Nebula Originals like the digital creators know how to make stuff that you give them a more generous budget, they make isn't just another streaming service that people percentage of the subscribers log in each day than and subscribers stick around for longer as they viewers have subscribed so far, and if you you can use our link, nebula.tv/wendover, and brings the cost down to under $3 a month. Not portion of your subscription fee for as long as monthly income that we can reinvest into the