Forever forgotten. Females have many surprises in store for us. We imagine them obedient, submissive and always devoted. As we will discover, They can be dominant, independent, manipulative, and often unfaithful. A few weeks of heat wave ruined Savannah Lane. Driven by drought, thousands of exiles have invaded our lands. There were wildebeests, then buffalos, and hordes of predators. The arrival of hyenas and jackals hints at horrible neighborhood conflicts to come. The rivals coexisted cordially, surprising everyone. In fact, on Savannah Lane, dangers and threats come from unexpected places. During a rare violent fight, Esther's clan lost a baby elephant. Lauren lost an eye after being attacked by a lone male, but survived. Others were not so lucky. A lioness lost a cub. One more time, the culprit is one of their own. In the savannah, murder runs in the family. Especially during heat waves, intense emotions and space becomes limited. Downstream, the river is now a mere thread. Upstream, It is swollen by the last storm. This abrupt rise in waters created other victims. The rain finally stops. Near Savannah Lane, the last sources of water are drying up. This unexpected pond gives a fugitive a little relief. The mud on his skin Protects against sunburn. Hippos are the ones that suffer most from this lack of water. Especially isolated males who have not claimed any territory. Without water to take shelter, are living on borrowed time. Beware of solitary males marginalized by their clan. This one only has one idea in mind. Steal a harem. And he's willing to kill to get what he wants. Everyone knows that the supply of this precious liquid is not endless. Hippos will soon suffer the consequences of this exhausting drought. The water, the essential element that gives life to the savannah. On Savannah Lane, We have never experienced a shortage. Thanks to the water, Lorde was able to recover. And Victoria was able to raise her six puppies. Josie continues to frolic on these banks. That everyone takes advantage of to meet and avoiding each other. Even in the sweltering heat, You have to always enjoy life. Lauren still doesn't trust men. She does things her way. She might end up giving in, reluctantly. Lauren makes it very clear that everything depends on the preliminaries, patience and a good time. The decrease in water sources, tension and fights between males They have taken these females to take refuge with Cathy. The atmosphere has become unbearable. Cathy is even more exposed to the rivalries of the males. All he's ever wanted is peace and quiet. There is only one answer. Go in search of greener waters. Without knowing it Cathy has raised the alarm and has shown the way. It's a stampede. An entire harem on the move. From now on, These females and their offspring They can no longer count on being safe. By isolating yourself, They have created a continental divide that separates them from the males. That the males stay together and fight each other. I don't know what I'm talking about. Dorothy will never have those problems. Remember, She has a much higher level of testosterone than males. She is so strong, who does not need bodyguards. But you never know. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. The scent should be more elegant and deterrent for territorial purposes. But that's the way things are. The ID is hidden. from their anal glands. In this world of smells, their peers will know that they are not welcome on your property. Here, new life is a kind of miracle. Of three thousand copulations, only one lion will reach adulthood. That shows how essential mating is. Lauren does her part. Without ceasing. She hooks up with a male she'll probably never see again. As radiant as it may seem, Every day reveals a new drama. There are no ordinary days. I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know what He wants to mark a territory and find a harem to rob. Literally and figuratively, something stinks. Kathy and her companions have chosen an unglamorous house on Savannah Lane. Their new home is a cul-de-sac filled with rubbish. A real dump. Or rather, a sewer. The intruder checks out the place, measures its defenses, and discover that mothers do not have bodyguards. They, on the contrary, They just want to lie down and digest the forty kilos of grass they devoured last night on the plane. Fortunately for Kathy, the chief never forgets his patrol duty. The intruder will have to fight or flee. He's smart. To fool the boss, take another option. Jump into the sewer The enemy has slipped down the slide. None of the mothers have seen him arrive, and panic is total. They try to intervene to protect the nursery, but it's too late. Another infanticide has been committed on Savannah Lane. This male got what he wanted. He asserted his power. He is the new Harem King. In the savannah, the killers make their rules. But sooner or later, the tables will turn. On Savannah Lane, greed, acts of piracy and infanticide They are mainly the same. People with identical habits, lifestyles and needs. One's own worst enemy It is often the species itself. Solitary males. For them, there is only one essential thing. Claim a territory where they can reproduce. That being the case, they do everything to mark their territory. deter rivals, and avoid mortal combat. However, Their methods are not unique. Victoria's three children are following the same path. Their permanent home is at the crossroads of several female cheetah territories. An ideal meeting place. Wildebeests leaving Savannah Lane is not necessarily a good sign. The drought will likely continue, and they will have to find pasture elsewhere. This time, the infantry leaves in disarray. I know the reins will return one day. more or less. Still together, indivisible. Victoria's children are blood brothers and brothers in arms. Since birth, They have always been in sync, aiming towards a common goal. The trio has just taken over a domain and kidnapped two females that were wandering around it. A hostage tests her guard. It's a lost cause. There is always a brother nearby to make her obey. Now her mother is taking the risk. Dragging his daughter. But in vain. For the moment, there is no escape from the watchful eyes of the three brothers. Equal opportunity does not exist at Savannah Lane. Born in the heights, The Stone-Faced Vulture is not afraid of others. He reigns over them. With his keen vision, can read the signs. The flight of a vulture is like the GPS of the savannah, pointing out scavengers and curious people. Jackals have very good manners, but they rarely use them. This morning, you have a front row seat and they sway impatiently, waiting for the leftovers. I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know. The beggars who look at Nouveau-Riche are also vultures eating at the best tables in the city. They are willing to fight for a piece of the pie. These are the banquets of bastards. The arrival of a third thief will divide the troublemakers and it will change everything. Everyone is wary of Mrs. Vulture's fearsome pace. One more time, here, nothing can be taken for granted. The members of the beggars' banquet rush before the next cleaning crew arrives. what I'm talking about. I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know what I'm talking about. talking. I don't know what I'm talking about. When Dorothy and her gang come for leftovers, Both Jackals and Vultures end up in the same club, that of the frustrated. Like the Jackals, Stone-faced Vultures raise their single offspring in pairs. They take turns feeding him. He is very spoiled. The same goes for Jackal cubs. Their parents are always ready to regurgitate what they have eaten, to satisfy the gluttons. No stress, there is no family tension or infanticide. Just a few more pinches on the snout shows that there is nothing more to take away. They are almost perfect. Something is brewing at Kathy's house. The Big Boss Everyone Hated has resumed his place in the harem. And this time, what I'm talking about. In the savannah, abuses are punished. But not always. In the end, the killer just walks away. I doubt the killer will live long. The females remain captive, and firmly determined to become submissive to leave them alone. The cheetah never fails in its vigilance. The two prisoners seem resigned to their captivity. But the trio will have to eat at some point. They will have to go hunting. It's great to be a united team. Their territory is better defended, and there is less risk. But when they are so solidly united, can cause existential problems. Should they go hunting and risk losing their prisoners? Forget to feed an empty stomach? When there is a chance to escape, should be taken advantage of. There may never be another. Too late. The kidnappers have once again given up the hunt. By the call of sex. The younger female wants to rebel, but can only submit. The males will wait as long as necessary until the females consent. Heat wave. Drought. Ruin. The savannah is no consolation for this hippopotamus that kills its babies. The value of water is best understood when the well runs dry. From above, it is easy to spot a water source. Two days ago, This pond was home to a hippopotamus and a school of catfish. It's hot. And with his bald head, the leopard-faced vulture might be better off in the shade. But you can't have it all. The others are jealous of their nest. Amazing, and yet very real. A leopard's nest. Don't think for a moment that these felines have become babysitters. They are just squatters. The heat makes heads spin. The hunter doesn't care about the heat. The lioness's pantry has been empty for a long time. Lauren takes charge once again, and demonstrates his uncanny sense of cunning. And staging. The lioness ballet is ready to begin. Using a well-honed technique, and infinite grace. First act. The ideal target is located. Second act. The corps de ballet wreaks havoc, creating a distraction. Third act. The heroine jumps onto the stage just before the curtain rises. The clan can regain strength. Last night, Cathy and her son walked away. The dawn reveals an unexpected, and disturbing scene. Cathy could no longer bear her noisy life in the sewers of Savannah Lane. He looked for a more serene place. more peaceful upriver. With hippos, it's the same old story. Men always want to lay down the law. Cathy is not easy to convince. He deserves this quiet spot on the beach. Woodpeckers nibble at the scars. excavating its interior. She is spoiled, but too much, by two attentive parents, which is why she leads a carefree life. Jackal cubs explore the world without fear, Pleasantly simple and gentle. The jackal cub faces the savannah boldly. He's got guts. Nothing can bring him down. Not even the determination of a female elephant, who has signaled his return. Vulture with a lapidary face, still clinging to the branches. Eagles must respect their elders. Another life lesson for this jackal cub. The inseparable trio has suddenly abandoned their two prisoners, as quickly as they had taken them. Much ado about nothing. Hunger always wins. The result was inevitable, but it won't stop these thugs from doing it again. It is not a good idea to stay behind and get separated from your loved ones. I don't know what I'm talking about. This troop of female elephants is like lightning before a storm. Esther is back on Savannah Lane. A reminder, that in the heart of Savannah Lane, we have never lacked water. The hyenas don't know it yet, But these fiery whirlwinds that dry out the lungs are a good omen. A hippopotamus loses a lot of water through evaporation. Their outer layer of skin is too thin and it has no sebaceous glands to protect it from the sun. This fugitive has not conquered any territory, won no victory, nor won any distinction, except through the death of an innocent person and weaker individual. On Savannah Lane, we die as we have lived. I don't know The euphoria of those who make Savannah Lane tremble under their footsteps It's a reminder that this paradise is both unique and terribly vulnerable. The rains have come, and life is easier now. At last The mornings once again seem blessed, making believe in era before time when there was no rivalry, jealousy, greed, nor aggression, when the neighbors lived together in harmony. But I digress. Where was I? Victoria knew how to save her puppies' lives. Normally, Only one in three cheetahs reaches adulthood. Her puppies are eight months old, already teenagers. Your hairs and their gray manes have become lighter, but they still have a ferocious appetite. For Victoria, It's an opportunity for another hunting lesson. They don't know what all this means, just another exploration of this world full of amazing creatures. But even at his age, his hunting instincts are already well-honed. They will discover that the fox is not fit to show his hunting skills. With huge ears that improve hearing. This little carnivore is a fighter. This is called emptying the womb. Although they have already developed a taste for blood, These young cheetahs They will be weaned in a few months For now, there is no hurry. Here, in the cool evening after the storm.., A mother shows the litter that will ensure the future of the clan to her sisters, cousins, and aunts. Nature, sometimes so beautiful, can also be cruel. If all goes well, Only half of these lion cubs will survive. Days after birth. The mother does not let anyone approach her cubs. Pain and pleasure, give life and be afraid of losing her. On Savannah Lane, as everywhere, Life is full of obstacles and surprises, moments of joy and hope.