Hello hello yes I heard yes I'm at your house yes ok ok sir I'm going now come back here yes yes yes yes I have some business to go back to right now ok ok Come on out then ok ok I you go Go out There go drive oh so I call you Ra what's the matter uncle Ra I ask you a favor you go get Tu Kieu My grandson I'll come back Give it to you it's been a while since you've been able to do it I can't see my child. Can you do it? Oh yes, you can do it. How much money will you take? I've already paid you. If you can do something, you can take it back. Can you give it to me? 2 days a day, that's it, but he went to catch it, and then he came back, and then he had money, and then he did it. Let me take the car, Kia, and wait. I'll come here and play. Mom, let's go get some water here. Play well. Oh, I'm dead, oh , I'm dead, I'm dead, I'm dead. Take me down to the construction site down here so I can survey the project you guys are working on. Yes, go quickly. It's late. It's already late . I heard about your nephew and I haven't seen him in a few days. So I sat down and drank some water. Luckily, these two guys went to find your nephew. Let's see if we can pay him back. How much will it cost? How much will those two guys pay? How much will it cost for you to pay today? When I come back here and see the public, you work so hard. How much money do you have to pay? I send each of you a million , here and there. I'm so happy . Please give me more. Give me more. Oh, not too little. Okay, okay. No more. Please give it. Just add this and that's it. Do you have any place to stop working so hard? Sir, give me one more coin. Where did it go? After this case, we still have to go into hiding because it's related to the law, okay ? It's over, now I'm going to take him home. Give him to me . Now, do you two have a drink of water? Okay, let's go home. What should I do? My child is gone. Where did I leave my child? If I lost my child, I'd stay at home to get water. I haven't come back and I don't know where I've gone. I've been looking for my child for a long time. I've been searching for a few hours. I lost my child. Have you reported to the police yet ? So now I'll take you to the commune to report to the police to find my child. Yes, hello officer , what business do you have here? I brought this girl here to report to the officer that she lost her child. Please ask the officer and the government to find the child. For her today, I will. I will accept your opinion. In the following, I will write down your opinion on the incident this afternoon. Where is your house? Let me take you to your house in the yard. I'll take you out there to buy some things. Eat when you get home so you can go inside and cook. How about the furniture, blankets and bedding? You haven't bought anything. You haven't bought anything yet. You don't have money to buy anything. Tomorrow, I'll buy it when I come in. Give me some bedding and bedding to put on. Let me stay in the sandals. To avoid the cold, sit here and eat. Let me go take a look and see if there's anything in the house that I can fix. The house is really bad. Let's go buy some things to fix it. Please give it to me. It 's too dusty . I haven't found it yet. I already have it. right to find Cho then you don't have to worry anymore okay you stay and rest okay I'll be home too tomorrow I'll come visit you when I'm at work tomorrow ok then you can rest I'll go home does she sell melon ? Hey, what's the use of picking those fruits? Let me see how much money you get so I can send you to the market so I can sell them but I won't get any. Mrs. Cho, then I'm sorry . Hello, my grandmother. Yes, I'm home. Luffa seller. um how much does it cost for a kilo? You sell it for 10,000 a kilo. You only sell one kilo . I'll weigh it. Give me 2 kilos. Please buy melon . I'll come here. It's delicious. This gourd is delicious. We weigh it all. Let me buy it. It's 3,000 a kilo. 40,000 is yours 40,000 is good, come home yes please come home How much does it cost? Five packs of 40,000 bears . I told you to make the approximate number. Let me know. All these accents, the corner of that door, are of equal size. Tell me, look at this. According to the drawing. hey hello ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok like that too boss WHY have I been so bored lately boss let's see how to design you see what we can do bro please Can you light a cigarette for me ? I'm so skinny these days, I'm tired of eating, big brother, big brother , let's go see if there's anything in it , baby, please don't, baby , there's so much, so pretty, AI's baby is so pretty, thanks for loving you. Oh go away, what is that guy doing, you're the guy who likes to take care of my business, no AI, no rescue , no AI, no hitting people, yes AI, are you familiar with this guy ? Why don't you go home? Where are you going? What are you doing? He's teasing me. I'm going to sell melon to buy some vegetable seeds to plant. Did you get hurt? It doesn't hurt anywhere. Luckily, it doesn't hurt. It hurts a bit. It's a bit dirty. I 'll be there for a bit, thank you, I'm not there. Luckily, at that time, I was passed by. I don't know what happened. After I sat down to rest for a bit, you and I went to plant vegetables. Let's go get vegetable seeds. Hello, I 'm working. near the construction site oh yeah oh ok ok wait for me a little bit I'll come over to the construction site um ok ok you stay here and I'll stake you. I'll be back at the construction site in a minute yes I have work outside the construction site Just a little bit to drink as long as you wish , it's okay. Do you have any water? Can I have a drink of all kinds ? Is the shop crowded lately? It 's normal. I've been away for work for a long time and didn't come back today. It's normal to come home , it's normal , I heard Captain, where are you ? I'm wandering around a few places to see if I can find something to eat. I just got home from work. Come pick me up. I'm ready. I have a job for my brothers to do. Yes, where is the boss? I'm at the beer shop. Please come quickly. Yes, I'll be home. Damn this guy has been open for so long. I can't find it anywhere in the morning. It's been a long time since I've been back, boss. I've been calling you all the time and now you're showing your face. It's deadly to do business like this. Please sit down. Yes, boss. Give me a cigarette. I 've been working far away lately because I'm so hungry and thirsty that I 'm dying. So hungry these days, what are you doing at home? I'm at home with nothing to do. Chief Officer, see if there's anything I can do. Theo can come. You can go. Follow me. Yes, Chief. Come on, get in the car with Tao, Mrs. Hoa, Mrs. Hoa. Is there any fertilizer ? Please give me some to grow vegetables. Hey, where are you using Kia's chicken? Get it, go in , go in, change this. I'll connect behind this winding road so that Kia can hide it in the roof, no, no , no go in the roof , hey? This one plays the loop over there and then goes out. Kia cross plays it all the time. This normally doesn't say anything, but when I'm normally somewhere, I'm in my room. Out here, I have to turn it on. Let it light up here and see something like that. So WHY do I have this small bulb, this big bulb and the Tit bulb? Where does the light go? It's just out here, turn it on, shake it here, right? Should I install this electrical outlet? It's so bright. I'm sure there's enough brightness in the middle. It's more beautiful to have wine sitting in this area and then cut this one and connect it from this one up , but this one you guys just cut the connection and break it. Connect the SAO and cut it. Connect it here, in here, it looks better, don't understand, let's not start. If I just look at the technique, if I leave it here, it's still bright . If I leave it here, it looks better If you don't understand the idea , go straight to this cul-de-sac, it's divided evenly on both sides of the middle basin. If you open the door, it'll all go away. And this nest, I plan to be a little further away so it won't get stuck against the door and it'll be a little crowded. inside the door, if you want to hold it again, please hold it. I'll come and I'll know right away . Please go home. Yes, Chief, I don't have anything. I don't have it. Uncle, this bag is very sturdy. Where's the money? There 's no money here. Then now I'm looking for more, I'm looking to see if there's anything else left , where did this guy go? He must have a lot of money, where can he keep it ? Hello, Ms. Tu Kieu, I was herding goats near your house and saw two strangers. I 'm going to your shack, please go home um um let me go home right away um I 'm dead WHY is there someone in my shack please call Mr. ENGINEER that's right call Mr. Quan hello hello Mr. Quan I heard it just now I'm at work and someone is calling. Tell me there are some guys lurking in my house. I don't know what they're planning to do. Come in. Um, please help me. I'm so scared. Oh, yeah. Let me call. Mom, phone. Mr. Ha Lien Quan came to check, yes , hurry up, sir, yes , hello, WHO? Hello, Mr. Ha Cong An, yes, yes , I saw Tu Kieu calling earlier. Please tell me that there are two strange people in your house. So let me come in and see what he's planning. Come in and check for me. Yes, yes , I'll go in first so you can come in later. We'll come right away and report to you, comrades . It's in my area. There's been a theft. Comrades, go now. According to me, there's no column for any explanation, right? It's not just Mr. porchofi from here. Come here. Come down here. Give this place a drive like this. If you want to plug it in the middle, just put it in the middle and if it doesn't work, just give it to me. Just put this row of dashes. Kitchen tiles, plugs, whatever you want to plug in later. Can't plug in too many, plug it on this side, okay? Come on. Just you guys, that's all. Is there anything you can do? Stay here for me. It's almost over, boss. Go out . Go out. Come out and see if there's anything. Leave. Leave. Leave. Ra. Comrades, take these two subjects back to my headquarters. Hello, hello, I received news that we had caught 2 people stealing your property. 6 had this bag of money on them and I took those 2 people to headquarters today. Today I will return the bag of money. Thank you. I have to go back to my headquarters to work. Thank you. Have you checked to see if my belongings are missing? Why did they search through all my belongings? What's going on? Hey , I'm probably just wasting money. The house is all crooked, okay, this color is beautiful. Hello, I 'm here today. I told you to do it . Please do it on Saturday. Today is a busy day . I'm going to the ground to plant vegetables, aren't you going to work today? Yes, I have a day off so I can hoe. Just let me go get the towel, I'll go get the hoe one one one one 123456789 10 10 10 23 10 45 10 60 78 you I'm crying okay okay what market is it today? I 'll take you to the market later to buy some vegetables and seeds to plant. There's no shortage of convenient items. I'll take you to buy them too. I'll send them to you. But the cabbage was not taken from a long time ago. She sat there and it was taken from a long time ago. She said, &quot; Where's the plastic bag? I just exchanged it for you. I gave it to you. I gave it to you. The 200 bill just went away. 90,000. 20,000 money.&quot; chopsticks for 70,000, who did you just ask? Do you have 2 more, give it here? Where do you go ? Sweet mangoes , I'll stay and grow vegetables later I'm going to a construction site outside there. I have a little work. I'll stay here and grow vegetables. I'll come back here. I'm looking for a job. Gold, gold , gold, how much does this cost? How much do you calculate ? How thick do you pay attention? You just like cheap but what does it do with this type without holding stakes? I'm not sure if it even pours a 50m net, that's probably enough. 2 districts 2 districts like this one Higher than that, 20 meters Mrs. Quang's child, Mrs. Quang's child, but there's Hieu's child, oh my god , I'm watering the vegetables, yes, buy a net. Let me fence the garden, thank you. Just this morning, we'll finish solving the problem and then afternoon. Let's go to the construction site to do some work. I'll come back and ask you when I'm free