You might think you know what Pauline, the first &quot;I'll be your one-up girl!&quot; She has a memorable voice, right? Except, &quot;Oh Mario, my hero!&quot; &quot;Everything is under control, I promise you.&quot; Pauline's voice has been through a whole lot video I want to document all of that. I'll talk we'll take a listen to clips of the weird and finally, I'll tell you the story Here's why Pauline doesn't sound like she used to. Part 1: The arcade era You've never heard Pauline's first voice. release. You see, in the original Donkey Kong or as she was known at the time, "lady", to Mario leapt over barrels, he wanted And so, it came to the game's sound designer, to create these sound effects. But rather than Tanaka used a synthesiser to create these Now, when Miyamoto and the other developers they weren't super happy with the result. worried the pronunciation might be off, was an English conversation teacher listen to about seaweed." In other words, she thought Now who this woman was is a mystery - she may have been the daughter of Nintendo whoever she was, Miyamoto and team took note the voice lines from the game. It was too so instead simple sound effects took the Which means that in the the version which was played by millions remained silent. But that was never the However, it wouldn't be long before voice. And that came when Donkey Kong Part 2: The cartoons In 1983, US TV network CBS began airing a show number of popular arcade games of the era into and of course, Donkey Kong and Donkey Kong Jr. Supercade that we get to hear Donkey Kong, Mario You see, only months before the show aired, the Nintendo Game and Watch, and also for None of the characters speak but in the cereal adverts, we hear Mario Pauline is voiced by jazz singer and according to her own website, "the first call scene for more than 20 years. She has recorded solo voice for spots including major clients such Coors, Budweiser, Special K Cereal, Hallmark, It's no surprise, then, that when these DK JoBelle was the person they But when months later, Saturday it was a different voice viewers In this new cartoon, the role of Pauline Strangis was best known at the time for and the campy superhero show Electra Woman character. In the early 70s, Strangis began which eventually led to her getting cast in Hanna-Barbera but which was produced by For many kids of the 80s, this is the voice Pauline. But once Nintendo released Pauline fell by the wayside in favour of the or Toadstool as she was often known. In forgotten about... Until, that is, she returned with Part 3: Mystery women Donkey Kong '94 is a fascinating Game the game pretends to be a simple Game Boy port it drops the curtain and reveals itself to be an Now, as Donkey Kong '94 obviously takes heavy this means the return of Pauline after a long which you'll recognise as not dissimilar from you're playing this game on your Game Boy, Yeah, this being a Game Boy game, Pauline is Kong '94 was the first game Nintendo released Boy. If you didn't know, the Super Game Boy was a games on their Super NES. And a number of games colour modes and enhanced audio. Take a listen to That's right, if you play Donkey you can hear a special voice clip of woman's voice is, that remains a mystery, or could it be a synthesised voice similar to Donkey Kong? Either way, this is not the Owing to the success of Donkey Nintendo decided to create a series of puzzle starting on the Game Boy Advance. And, as you of these games. Which means that we get to hear Here's a chart of all 8 Mario vs. Donkey Kong games in which Pauline appears, and of those, First we have March of the Minis, which I've gasp in the opening cutscene... and blow a kiss says anything proper. It's impossible to know the kiss is actually a stock sound Then in Minis March Again, Pauline gains a similar to what Miyamoto planned in the 80s. The again, a mystery. Since the Mario Nintendo Software Technology, or NST, it's not unlikely that it was one of the Next is Mini Land Mayhem, where Pauline's pitched "help" is replaced with a number of The game also introduces Pauline minis, which receive a whole selection So again, there's a possibility that employee at NST, or perhaps by an actual The next game, Minis on the Move, re-uses though a few new phrases ...With the voice sounding almost the same. And then, finally, we have Tipping Stars, which I marked with a question mark reuses sound effects from the previous game So there we have it - Donkey Kong '94 Again features a second mystery woman, Mini and Minis on the Move has which may have been recorded by mystery woman In other words, this era is marked by numerous short voice lines which are And that seemed the state of affairs when it Pauline was thrust into the limelight like never Part 4: The new Pauline So, before we talk about Pauline's speaking to explore her singing voice - because that's When Nintendo's developers began work on Super session where anyone on the staff could the team planned on including a stage based on Yoshiaki Koizumi, "Even in real life, sometimes between buildings". That inspired the team which eventually began resembling New York City. Donkey Kong game, which inspired Odyssey's to Donkey Kong, and also to Pauline, who During one of those brainstorming sessions, an idea where the player gathered up band members to a live musical performance. According to Kubo going to gather band members, we wanted to include we'd need a lead singer too. Before I knew for Super Mario Odyssey, with English lyrics, so So, Kubo tried writing various genres jazz. He started with a simple melody before he fleshed it out into a full early prototype of the game at the time, The Japanese lyrics were written by the game's sound designer. Once those Japanese singer record a kind of preliminary translate it into English. And for that, Nintendo Treehouse is the department and localises the company's games into English, who was tasked with translating Jump Up Superstar track I mentioned, and Rob got to work on his own of revisions - Nintendo's Japanese staff was their meaning across, what was more important As the two divisions of Nintendo bounced lyrics colleagues recordings of himself singing his "I settled into a pattern of adjusting and internally at NOA for more feedback, recording feedback, rewriting, and then doing all of that In the meantime, Nintendo of America called Cup of Tea Productions. Nintendo voice actors who could sing jazz. And this Kate Higgins is an American singer and voice in Alabama, she moved hundreds of miles across it wasn't long before Higgins was and she now boasts an impressive resume of Sakura from the Naruto franchise. Tails. And that just scratches the surface And so, in the mid 2010s, Higgins was contacted not that she was told she was auditioning at Cup of Tea studio, who were doing all in singing a song for a Nintendo video game. so Japan had me audition basically by sending for someone who could sing in that jazz, swing running or not, but fortunately they liked what Now, you might've noticed that Higgins only a song. And that's because for the vast majority not speaking. She and the recording staff began game's second vocal song, Break Free (Lead the on to recording Pauline's speaking lines. "I voiced her," says Kate Higgins. "They waited 'til before the director talked to me about her voice. And so, in the end, Nintendo ended up with 2 songs and a whole bunch of voice As a side note, after Kate Higgins recorded her Free, Nintendo in Japan actually had Japanese was Aimi Mukohara, a singer-songwriter. She recorded before mine, and the demo was sung by a friend... so that was not me. One of the members there were some candidates. They listened Now, before Super Mario Odyssey's release, within the world of Mario. But with Odyssey, fame. She's since appeared in Mario Tennis, games. In all of these projects, Pauline And that WOULD be the end of the video. spanner in the works: The Super Mario Bros Movie... Part 5: The movie So, we all know that the 2023 Super Mario cast from the Mario game series. Charles but that's it. So while Kate Higgins that's not the case when it Because, yes, it turns out Pauline makes a She's the mayor of New York City, which the mayor of New Donk City in Super Mario &quot;Everything is under control, I promise But who voices her? Well it turns out, this DiCicco. DiCicco is another hugely prolific like Adventure Time, The Buzz on Maggie, Winx DiCicco was contacted about appearing she didn't have to audition - DiCicco went in and they were like, It's the "Oh my God". I didn't wanna get too excited you're gonna get cut out of something. It wasn't So, DiCicco actually voices a bunch of Mario's mum, yellow Toad, Baby Peach, Baby Luigi's bully, the woman from the Mario &quot;Everything is under control, I promise And that is everything there is to know about in 1981 to Pauline's most recent appearance, Pauline. I really like Kate Higgins' portrayal of Pauline has truly become a main Mario character, female Mario characters - Peach, Daisy, Rosalina personality, and their own unique history with the the longest is, of course, Pauline, who's been Thank you so much to my supporters on this one possible. In particular,