I want to address a Russian soldier. Don't surrender! Oh, oh so so good We will fuck you up Are you recording, Dagu? Greetings everybody! My name is Raider. I represent Punk Group unit of the Second Mech Battalion. We are taking off to a regular shift that will be 3 days long. This is Mr.Siriy. In our squad he is responsible for fuel. Had it not been for Siriy, we would not ride for &quot;boys in the underwear&quot;. Why are you sitting down? This is our chief engineer. There would be no flights without him. We are starting to move. Peace through death of russians. We love Ukraine while you don't. Yoyo. We make the vehicle. Now we are moving to the position on foot We reached the points, unwrapping Starting to work. What is it that you are pulling? That's a big shnit. It is going to hit some UAZ now The move will be alright. If anything will be left Of that UAZ. So, the thing is I will prepare a few more batteries now. Taking off with The first flight at once. And setting the second set for charge. A pair at once. Need to get further Than they met it and check out That village. It appears to me they have quite some move there, Boyar, we are taking off. Buddy, this will be shown on YouTube, C'mon... Let them show. The fags can suck dick. Well said, well said. Now we are planning to launch it Some 20 km deep to the fags. Let's go. Turning ground equipment on, checking... [music] Control ok, video ok. Plus. Boys, greetings all, this is Raider. The fficer on duty sent me to you. He says we need To work with the shadow. Do you copy? Greetings buddy. Look, the fags left their belongings overnight. We don't know what that is. Need to work it out. There are two backpacks. Got it, bud. Plus. Looking for a point on the map and will report once ready Plus. Got it. Land now. [music] The first morning. Starting to work. Overnight we have conducted several flights. Hit three targets. Now we are starting The first daytime flight. Our targets is The faggot's flag. One flying to fuck the suckers up. Your comments? This is sut. I am all in the mission. We are in the Kharkiv region And we are conducting round-the-clock monitoring Using FPV. We are hitting infantry, The fortifications As well as vehicles. As of today, the drones are The most precise and the most effective weapon. Some 70-80% of all hits of enemy's Vehicles Falls on fpv. [music] Worked it out, hit it. Detonation is on. The second day has begun. Woke up in the morning. Destroyed enemy's vehicle. Now planning To have breakfast and to continue with the shift. The boys are preparing food for themselves. I hope they will give me some. After lunch We are planning to prepare for night work. Specifically, need to put the drones together with Thermal cameras and then carry out free hunting flights Looking for enemy vehicles That carry out enemy logistics. Ok, the drone is ready Handing it over to the launcher. Permission to take off? Plus. Oh this is so damn good. [music] The third day of our shift has started This morning, together with our co-crew We destroyed one APC and burned One enemy tank. Yesterday we worked all day We also worked overnight. Our crew has destroyed three vehicle as well as Hit two vehicle. Ok the drone is ready. Handing it over to the boys who go out To the outside. They always use personal protection gear As they say, go-go... Drone is on. Got any tape? Here is some. Yes, we have a long flight ahead. Roughly 20 or even 25 km. Hope at that distance we will be able to hunt down Some vehicle and destroy it. Ideally, there will be Some enemies inside. Airborne. On route. Camera, action. The second Mech Battalion's Punk Group is working All is kosher. This shit vs that shit. At any rate, we need to kill the faggots. Naturally! We need to fly there. We will go through it. This is where we took off and here is the Turn and then we will follow the road This is a solid move, as far as I am concerned. So we can destroy the faggots. Indeed A bike. The fag will have no bike. Get the kettle here. Nice! Was some solid work. There are almost no drones left. Hit many vehicles. Some of those are destroyed. Quite likely, In some of those vehicles we got some faggots too In good conscience we are getting ready To go back to the base to relax as well as to prepare For the next deployment. The previous crew Got their car fucked up. They had to be towed away. Therefore, they could not collect all their leftovers. So now we have this rather complicated task of Moving everything that's in this room Out plus all our belongings Plus some cases By one poor car There is this hectic motion here. Everybody are active once they heard word Base. Cleaning things up. Our shift is running its course. We are moving to the parking for our car. Unfortunately, it is already dark and the camera cannot Properly register all the beauty that I am seeing right now With my own eyes. Our vehicles passing by is always Quite dangerous because these vehicles Might be followed by faggots from the air and target It with artillery or their own fpv. So in such cases we always stop And wait several minutes Until the vehicles pass and then we move. Shortly another crew will change us. And we will go home to rest. Join the armed forces of Ukraine