Translator: Amanda Zhu What if this was the moment How would you know? How would it feel? Imagine there were signs clear signs that you could trust, so that you would always know which path to take What if I told you for you just to see them Quantum physicist Max Planck has said, &quot;When you change the things you look at change.&quot; When I was growing up in Finland, I loved books - I still do. One day I was in my hometown bookstore I had to open it. I began reading and tasting every word. It was Pablo Neruda's poetry Honestly, I didn't understand much at 13, but every word somehow I had to know more, so I bought the book and there, looking at the pictures I promised myself At 13, I didn't know much about signs, yet one sign was given to me, and some part of me understood it. As it so happens, I currently live in the Peruvian Andes, (Laughter) and I have been many, many, many, many - did I say many? - times to Machu Picchu, and I stopped counting So we often see our lives we hold on to stories that make us small or keep us small, we even start seeing signs or we start seeing even bad signs - So sometimes we might lose that are there to support us in our path because we are too busy to think that we need something else One of my favorite poets, Rumi, &quot;Why do you stay in prison So what do you do if you feel that you are in prison Do something surprising, like brrr, to shake it off. Let's all do that. Brrr. And just to demonstrate, if you do it without sound, (Laughter) it doesn't work so well, right? (Laughter) Another good technique is snap out of it, literally, snap your fingers something happens in your brain. Try it. But you have to move (Laughter) you try it at the intermission - and then you blow that energy out: Swish! You might do this - Feel your body. Do that right now. Hug yourself. Hmmm. Tell yourself, &quot;Oh, you're so amazing.&quot; Hmmmm. And remind yourself not in the future, not in the past, not in the story of should, could, would, not a victim of the circumstances, but right here. Tell yourself, &quot;I love you.&quot; Tell yourself, &quot;I'm so proud of you.&quot; And breathe, right now: Ahhhh. Remember the signs themselves it is our judgment or our So why don't we decide, to only see good signs? Good, a deal. Albert Einstein has said, &quot;There are only two ways as though nothing is a miracle, or as though everything is a miracle.&quot; Remember the law of physics: When you change the way the things you look at change. Let me tell you a story about hard-headed. When I was preparing to study at the Juilliard School, I went to a bookstore again, and I found a book You open the book So I took the book and I concentrated, and I open the book: Hmm. I didn't like the message so much, and then I opened the book again: that same message. But I thought there was so I took another copy of the book, and I ended up opening And did I read it? No. I thought that there was they opened up on the same page - So I told a friend afterwards and it was really weird. And he said, &quot;Well, &quot;I don't know. Something like energy or opportunity.&quot; I had no idea. I had not even bothered Some weeks later, and he said, &quot;Close your eyes.&quot; He gave a book into my hands, I opened it. Can you guess what happened? Mm-hmm, yep - that same quote. So at that time, This is what it said, &quot;How much longer will you How much longer are you going to stay &quot;Don't lose time in conflict; time can never be recovered. And if you miss an opportunity, it may take many lives Fast forward, and there I was a doctoral candidate studying with the amazing I loved it. I was thriving. I loved both the academics I was in Lincoln Center. I got to play with some of the and to study with some of the And yet, at the same time, I felt not good enough or even doubting So one particular summer Sunday, I was in that conflicting moment that I was stuck or I couldn't advance or I couldn't figure it out. And I say &quot;conflicting&quot; because at the same time, and I felt something And I was playing in hospitals and by hospice-care patients' bedsides. Especially in those moments, I really and I felt my soul calling me but at that time, as I said, I could not see it clearly. I was banging my head on the career doors so I decided to talk to the universe. &quot;Hello. Anybody? I am tired. I am frustrated. I am scared. I don't know what to do. And please don't give me because I don't hear a thing, and if I hear something, (Laughter) So here's the deal: I am willing to persevere if I know for sure If I'm not on the right path, I can do many things. So - are you listening? - give me a sign. And give me a sign that I can understand. None of those cryptic messages, okay?&quot; (Whispering) Silence. On one hand, I felt better on the other hand, I felt a bit shaken because I had just demanded a sign So I decided to go for a walk. And as I was walking, I really felt sad and lonely and lost: &quot;Nobody loves me.&quot; And as I was crossing Broadway I saw a book on the ground - again a book. It must be somebody's book, I thought, So I pick up the book; I turn it around. The title of the book is Hmm. Could this perhaps, maybe, I was still doubting. They might as well dropped but I had asked for a clear sign. So I open the book and I read, &quot;This is a story (Laughter) (Sigh) I close the book and say, &quot;Okay. You got a deal. Why I love sharing this story If my mom was here in the audience, (Laughter) I love it because we all have signs. And in my case, I was looking I was looking for my professor's signs totally missing my own unique signs. And I am here in front of you, from Finland, through New York City, because I did start Since finding the book, I have grown to the habit I have manifested computers, amazing journeys around the world, amazing people around the world, men. We've manifested each other tonight here in TEDxBigSky. And also when I was planning to fulfill that promise in 2010, when I was going there - I asked the universe as a sign that this indeed was my time to go, and at that exact same day, an unexpected substantial So I got my sign and I live in Peru. So remember the universe Listen to it. The signs are everywhere. See them. Recognize them. Feel them. Be them. Make them up. Trust them. I am the flute, the singing flute, and so are you. The 15th-century poet &quot;The flute of the infinite and its sound is love. When love renounces all limits, So we are all flutes through which the infinite longs to play. Listen to the sound of love beckoning you, your own soul calling you there are no limits. And remember, when in doubt, brrr. (Laughter) Have courage to follow your heart Choose to live as though it's in the small things. And when you show up you might be a sign for someone. So I ask you, &quot;What if this was the moment What if this talk was your sign?&quot; Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)