So here we have two engines. As you can see they consist of the same parts. Piston, connecting rod, crankshaft. As you can also see, they have the The only difference between them is Now, let me ask you a question. If we spin these two engines at the same speed. So the same RPM. Which engine will have a So can you see it? No? Okay. Let's zoom in a bit. And let's slow things down. As you can see, the question I Because going down from top dead center, it's But going up from bottom dead center, it's So why does this happen If both of the engines have the same stroke, the same board and are obviously Well, the culprit is obvious. It's the connecting rod. Because that's the only we thing And in this video I promise to by explaining how something is simple as creates different piston accelerations. And then using real-life engines as everything from power and torque, to throttle And even things like coolant temperatures. So the only thing different in our two This means that these two engines The full name is rod to stroke ratio. And it's the ratio of the center-center length Which is determined by your crankshaft. Now, in the case of our short rod engine, let's say that the center to center Let's say that the engine stroke is 80mm. The rod ratio is 120, divided by 80 Which gives us 1.5. Now, in the case of our long rod engine, the So the rod ratio is 240 divided by 80 Which gives us a rod ratio of 3. So, as you can see, the shorter the rod in relation to the Now, the next thing that we a line at an angle has a shorter when it's fully upright So 100% vertical. This may sound simple. But it's absolutely crucial to Why? Because the connecting rod is It's absolute length never So the rod obviously stays 120mm But it's relative length is constantly changing. In other words, the connecting rod length and the crankshaft, as the engine is running. Let's observe to understand it better. So, at engine position, at the top dead center. The connecting rod is fully upright Which means that at this stage it's at its maximum length in relation Now as the engine rotates towards 90deg, the In this position it's at its shortest in And as we said, a line at an angle than that same line when fully vertical. So, as the engine rotates from 0deg to becoming shorter in relation to And as it does so, it pulls down Now, the piston is already traveling downward. And the connecting rod is adding Which forces the piston to accelerate In fact, we can observe this con-rod added Take any engine and rotate it to 90deg So to half the stroke. At half the stroke, the piston should also Well, it never does. It's always going to travel beyond half the stroke And this is the consequence of the connecting pulling down the more, as it becomes shorter So why does the piston in the short rod engine, accelerate more than the Well, the answer is simple. And it's that a shorter rod length, in steeper rod angle against the The steeper the rod angle, the shorter the rod becomes in relation Or to it more accurately The steeper the rod angle, relative length between the rod fully We can best observe this When our short rod piston obviously due to the steeper angle of the rod. So now we understand why the piston in the short And we can use the same principle of relative rod length to understand what is happening Now, from 90deg to 180deg of rotation, the In other words, it's now becoming longer It's now pushing the piston So in the previous case when the piston The rod was adding distance in the same But this time, the piston is moving down. And the rod is lengthening. Which means that it's adding distance in the When this happens, the rod is slowing the So, how does the long rod piston to end up arriving at bottom Even though at 90deg, the short First of all, we have to the piston is moving towards bottom dead center. Where it will change its direction of travel. Obviously, to change direction of travel, And to come to a complete This means that the piston is decelerating irrespective of the additional deceleration The deal here is that the relationship between rod angle stiffness, and piston The steeper the angle of the rod, the greater But also the steeper the angle of deceleration created by the rod. Because the difference in relative and the rod fully angled in the short rod When it adds distance to the piston in the it accelerates the piston But also when it adds distance in the it's going to decelerate the piston The long rod piston arrives It catches up to the short rod piston. Simply, because the less steep Got that? Okay, let's rev up that brain some more. Now, moving from 180deg to 270deg, the piston is changing direction and it's now While the connecting rod is transitioning Meaning that the connecting in relation to the piston &amp; the crankshaft. This means that it's again adding distance in the opposite direction of the piston's In more simple terms, the piston is going up. But the rod is pulling it Again as in the previous case, the less that it's slowing down the piston less. Which is why it accelerates faster from And finally, from 270deg to 360deg and the piston continues to move upward. The piston is again decelerating towards TDC. Because it has to change direction, This time however, it's the short rod piston And the two arrive at top Because the piston is moving upward the rod is again adding distance in the same Which means that the rod is The steeper angle of the short rod means more the long rod piston, and both arrive So, here we have an overview of As you can see in the top 180deg of rotation, In the bottom 180deg of rotation, the Also, when the connecting rod a shorter rod is going to And also when the connecting the shorter rod is again going Now, let's look at some real life engine examples, to see how these differences in Our first example engine It's found in numerous Hyundai and Kia vehicles. As you can see, it's your average a modest red line, and a pretty low rod ratio. Our next engine is the naturally as found in performance-oriented As you can see, it makes quite a bit more power than the Hyundai engine, and also has a Our final engine is the one in As you can see it makes pretty impressive And it has a red line that is twice And it also has by far the highest rod ratio. Incidentally, the highest rod ratios for The highest ever rod ratios were found So why does the lowest reving, the also have the lowest rod ratio? Well, the reason is, that a lower rod ratio helps And more responsiveness at lower RPM as well. This is of course crucial for which spends most of its life at low RPMs. Having torque here helps the And it's easier to drive around on the street. As we said, a lower rod ratio means away from top dead center. Greater acceleration away from TDC, means a pistons creating more And this of course means more vacuum. Now, at all RPMs, the piston Which is why most engines struggle And this is why the Conrod added More vacuum helps pull in more resulting in increased intake air velocity. Increased intake air velocity Creating a more homogeneous air-fuel mixture. Which results in better stronger And ultimately more torque. Increased intake air velocity also which ultimately benefits the engine by making it And better for driving on street. Another benefit of a shorter shorter block deck height, and And also a lighter engine, and also simplify vehicle packaging concerns. So, if a low rod ratio helps low why did the Honda and the Well, the answer is simple. We're looking at high performance, That are focused on generating By increasing the length of the And by this, we reduce the side holding As you can see here, the shorter the rod, the greater the with which the piston Of course this increases So by making the rod longer, and torque, simply by reducing the Increased friction of course which can lead to increased coolant Increased loads against the cylinder walls that spread out the loads more evenly over But due to decreased loads on the engine can use shorter pistons, which can And can also help offset any weight But the loading of the piston isn't so significant or problematic at low RPMs. At low RPMs, the piston Which is why the forces at with which the are obviously lower overall. Now, as the RPMs increase, so And so too do the forces of the This means that using the rod ratio of a 6500 to 16,000RPM, will directly result in the And you know, catastrophic engine failure. Another benefit that the longer rods bring is increased piston dwell time at TDC. Because the piston accelerates it means that it spends more time in the TDC area. Which can be a good thing. By keeping the piston longer in the TDC area, And this gives combustion more time to spread And then transfer that peak This is especially important at very high RPMs, of time in the TDC area, and generating Because after all the speed and acceleration But the speed of the combustion, or spreads through the combustion chamber, remains And only changes with drastic This increased dwell time in the TDC area, is why will all other things bang equal, typically make But there's another key benefit to And that's preventing vibrations that at high Let's recall our graph from before. As we said, due to the actions of accelerating faster through the top 180, As you probably know, force Our mass, which is the mass of the piston, is But our acceleration isn't. And results in different inertial in the top vs the bottom 180deg of rotation. And this creates a force imbalance between This force imbalance is known And it creates vibrations. Which shake the engine up We can also observe that the short rod or faster through the top 180deg of rotation. Whereas the high rod ratio, or long rod piston, accelerates faster through So we can observe that, The lower the rod ratio, the greater and bottom 180deg of the engine's rotation The greater difference in force, And the greater the imbalance, the higher We can also observe that secondary vibrations Meaning that at 16,000 RPM, Leading to vibrations whose frequency can be And this is why high revving engines By minimizing the difference and bottom 180deg of rotation, they And thus they minimize secondary vibrations Which must be as low as possible for the engine to be capable of reliably Now, something else that must be said, is that different rod ratios They do impact these things. But if you think that modifying your engine to achieve a different rod ratio It will not. Something like a different intake manifold, will yield far greater and more A rod ratio is something that is intended application and the intended RPM limit. And it's only really modified at very high stages Where the very last bit of is tried to be squeezed out of the engine. On top of this, modifying the rod As you can see, a longer rod pushes So, you will need a custom piston to accommodate the longer rod. Or you will need a taller deck. Now, one of the most important and is offsetting the negative Now, fitting a crankshaft to a longer stroke It can sometimes even result in increased Fitting a longer rod, can offset some of this. And restore the rod ratio number And there you have it. A little insight into how something as simple as a change in rod length, can impact As always, Thanks a lot for watching. I'll be seeing you soon with On the D4A channel.