&quot;Aka-Chochin&quot; in Tenjin, Chuo Ward, Fukuoka City. This time, I will introduce a lively young man It's a line from &quot;Princess Mononoke&quot;. &quot;To see with eyes unclouded by hate.&quot; I like Ghibli and wanted to go to Japan. Jeff from France. He is training to become a stall owner in Japan. Days spent with a cheerful and kind boss. This time, I will introduce only one page of his daily life. Please take a look to the end. Yatai is a special world of Japan. it's fun. Extremely. I enjoy my work. I enjoy staying at home. Tenjin, Chuo Ward, Fukuoka City. The preparation of the stalls begins in the evening. Mr Jeff. He will unload luggage. I will wait for the boss now. rest! Prepare from 4 o'clock and put it all in the car. Then I pull the stall over here and unload it all. Then, when it's 5:00, I'll bring everything over there. Ghibli's &quot;Princess Mononoke&quot; line. &quot;To see with eyes unclouded by hate.&quot; JKT) Princess Mononoke? yes. That's what Ashitaka said. JKT) Is it Ashitaka's lines? Yes. I am a big fan of Ghibli. I also like Porco Rosso. JKT) So you love Ghibli? It's interesting, isn't it? I like Ghibli and wanted to go to Japan. It was good. Really. JKT) Do you especially like Princess Mononoke? yes. I've been watching it since I was 6 years old. I think Japanese culture is really amazing. Starting with Studio Ghibli, I became interested in anime. Like NARUTO. Dragon ball! . Also old Harlock. Captain Harlock. JKT) Captain Harlock? It's so old! oh yeah! haha My love of anime started with Ghibli and Harlock. Do you have a favorite anime? JKT) I... JKT) I used to watch Dragon Ball a lot as a kid. Dragon ball and slam dunk. JKT) Also Jojo's Bizarre Adventure. That's really good! Jojo! I love jojo. After all, Japanese people love Jojo. JKT) I like it. interesting. I have been working in a restaurant in France When I turned 22, I thought maybe I should go abroad. After all, thanks to Ghibli, Look it up on the internet. Find out which city speaks the most English. Since it's close to Korea, I was deceived.haha JKT) Surprisingly, many Japanese are not good at English.haha It was difficult to talk with Japanese people! haha At first I joined &quot;Remy-Sanchi&quot; Thanks to the customers, I was able to learn Japanese. Learn Japanese little by little while working. Then there's that... I met my wife as a client. And now I am married. And you settled in Japan? Yes! Ever since then. JKT) What made you want to work at the food stall? &quot;I was working at the &quot;Remy-Sanchi&quot; , Then all of a sudden I got a call from the boss. &quot;Hey! What are you doing? Come work here!&quot; I have been working here for a year and a half. At that time, I was only doing Uber Eats. &quot;Come here to work.&quot; &quot;Understood.&quot; JKT) Do you have a dream of having a stall in the future? yes. So the boss taught me various things. When my Japanese gets better, I want to open my own stall. In order to receive public offerings for stalls, there is an exam. I tried taking that test once, When I received it once, I didn't understand it at all. It was no good if I answered in a texto. It can't be helped. There are still plenty of opportunities. I will take the exam many times. I'm still young!haha Soon it will be 17:00. Food stalls in Fukuoka City operate under the control of the city, and the food stall owners must adhere to its rules. About tens of seconds left. 17:00. Bring the stall onto the road. This is Aka-Chochin's space. Right in the middle of Tenjin. Jeff will bring in the luggage. The boss will assemble the stall. Speed is the key to preparing food stalls. They will be opening as soon as possible, so prepare quickly. Aka-Chochin's boss is from Okinawa Prefecture. They are always open with two people. Fukuoka's food stalls have achieved symbiosis with the city, and infrastructure such as electricity and water is in place. Therefore, it is also possible to use a water heater. Each stall has cleared the hygiene inspection they are required to be conscious of safety and security. Dedicated drains. A simple grease trap is also installed. Preparations are steadily progressing. It was very windy that day. Prepare ingredients. Transfer the contents of the cooler to the refrigerator. Preparing gas. Jeff works very efficiently. The boss also seems to like his serious attitude. Jeff is going to be on NHK! It's &quot;Passion Continent&quot; Hey, it's the &quot;Passion Continent&quot;, isn't it? haha JKT) Oh, it's not the passion continent.haha Installation of the roof is almost complete. &quot;It's me!&quot;. From here they will start preparing the ingredients. Jeff also prepares with the boss. Aka-Chochin's menu has an Okinawan taste, and Jeff has learned many things from the boss. Preparation of goya. Great knife handling. It's a different person's face They are ready. They will be opening soon. JKT) You said &quot;I want to have a stall someday&quot;. JKT) Is that a ramen shop? French? I still think that if I were to open a restaurant, I really want to do something like a French restaurant. A little fashionable, leaving the fun of the stalls. I want to make beautiful and delicious French cuisine. JKT) What do you like most about Japan? Huh? My favorite point is definitely the food. Especially in Fukuoka. Japanese people are really serious However, once they enter the stall, they will feel very relaxed. I think stalls are a different world in Japan. JKT) Japanese people have an image of being serious, don't they? JKT) But from our point of view, we're usually serious. JKT) When it comes to festivals, JKT) At Japanese style dining bar, everyone makes a lot of noise. JKT) It's extreme. It's true that sometimes the Japanese are serious JKT) During the day, people work with a very serious face. JKT) If people come to a stall, That happens a lot. Let's all say &quot;Cheers! Cheers!&quot; &quot;Brother here you are!&quot; &quot;Hey! Hey!&quot; Japanese people work too much, JKT) How was the food? What about Japanese food? Really good! JKT) Were you confused? Um, I can never eat natto! Natto and perilla! Also, I am not a fan of chicken sashimi. but my wife loves it. Because she is from Kagoshima. I've tried it many times, but... it's just a little raw meat. If it's beef, it's still fine. The raw chicken meat is just a little... I am also not a fan of shochu. I'm not used to shochu yet. JKT) Do you drink at home? yes. whiskey, beer. Strong Zero! Strong Zero is terrible! It's really delicious! I'll get drunk in no time! It's dangerous, really.haha JKT) Jeff, you really like anime. Yes! JKT) What anime do you recommend now? Huh? My current recommendation is... In French, it's &quot;Kotaro en solo&quot;. In Japanese... &quot;Kotaro lives alone.&quot; This is insanely good. JKT) Does Kotaro live alone? He is so cute. cute! &quot;Umu!&quot; *That's what Kotaro used to say. Watch it with your wife if you have time. Kotarou is so cute. Good time. JKT) Did you watch anime on TV in France? I saw it on TV first. There was a channel called &quot;MANGA&quot;. There was only anime there. JKT) Did you see Captain Harlock there too? No, my mother bought Captain Harlock on DVD. Then on TV. Naruto, Dragon Ball, Initial D. JKT) Initial D or something? Yeah there was later.... Eyeshield 21. The story of American football. JKT) Evangelion too? There was also Evangelion! oh yeah. I also had Evangelion. later.... Ranma 1/2! JKT) Ranma 1/2! This was super fun. JKT) Is it popular? yes. I think they were really popular in the 2000s. Turn on &quot;MANGA&quot; when you get home from school. It was a lot of fun. Strong winds, the natural enemy of food stalls, are hard to stop. Boss's proud dish &quot;meat tofu&quot;. The sweetness of beef and onions and the aroma of miso. It is a dish that is rich in flavor. I also had dinner here. Bite dumplings. Here you are! dumplings! I put sauce on it, so please eat it as it is. I'll enjoy having this. JKT) Is this BGM your hobby? Almost. I have been to many food stalls in Fukuoka, but this is the first time I have seen a stall Stylish background music! The first customer came to the stall today. thank you! They got an order for mentai tamagoyaki. here you are! rolled omelet with spicy fish eggs! thank you! I ordered the grilled ramen. welcome! A style that is baked until one side is crispy. Put pork bone soup in there. It looks delicious. Here you are! Grilled ramen! looks delicious . The noodles have more weight than I thought and they are chewy. The entanglement of the soup is also exquisite. You can also have an egg topping. ~Night fever! Night fever! Is your beer cold? I have to check it out! for later. Oh well then. JKT) Cheers time? ? Check to see if the beer is cold. Good! Good work! ah! It's cold. it's cold An order for simmered beef and Tofu has been placed. crunchy cheese. This is a popular snack with sake. The city is getting darker. There are tourists from Korea in the stall. Customer: &quot;You are handsome!&quot; &quot;Oh! Thank you!&quot; Customer &quot;Where are you from?&quot; &quot;France!&quot; &quot;Bonjour!&quot; (Hello!) Customer &quot;Je t'aime&quot; (I love you). &quot;Je t'aime?&quot; (I love you?) Customer) Je t'aime means &quot;I love you&quot;? Yes! &quot;I love you.&quot; &quot;What do you say &quot;I love you&quot; in Korean? &quot;Saranghaeyo!&quot; &quot;Saranghaeyo!&quot; &quot;I will remember it!&quot; I have an order for ramen. It looks delicious too. Jeff has almost mastered the know-how of stall sales. There is absolutely no problem with communication it can be said that both technical knowledge is at a high level. If he keep taking one step at a time every day, I feel that the day when his dreams come true is not too far away. Delicious! JKT) Are you eating dinner here? yes. I usually have alcohol for dinner.haha But alcohol fills me up. eat a little The wind is still strong, &quot;Pujateseyo!&quot; (Get rich!). &quot;Pujateseyo!&quot; &quot;Kamsahamnida!&quot; (Thank you). &quot;Kamsahamnida&quot; &quot;Kamsahamnida!&quot; &quot;Kongan!&quot;(fine) &quot;Kongan!&quot; &quot;Healthy!&quot; &quot;Haseyo&quot; (please). &quot;Konganhaseyo!&quot;(Take care!) I remember! thank you! I will take it. "Kamsahamnida!" (Thank you!) "Puja...Pujateseyo!" (Get rich!). &quot;Konganhaseyo!&quot;(Take care!) Please come again! Goya Chanpuru. Goya Chanpuru is also a popular dish of the restaurant. It is a taste of Okinawa that you can enjoy at a food stall. I asked the boss about Jeff. What is he doing now that Corona has gone viral? I heard that Jeff runs Uber Eats. He say, So I invited him to work with me. Well, it's like parent and child. Kind of like a parent and son. age difference. JKT) I see. Well, so. I feel as if his parents in France have asked me to do him a favor. I feel I have to take care of him and see to it that he does not get hurt. I have to continue to nurture him after this JKT) He said it was his dream to have a stall. Go for it. If he pass the stall exam, he can go hard. that's right. That's all. No need to freak out anymore. He can go on and on. please! welcome! The wind has stopped. Customers start coming in. A bowl of grilled ramen! Here you are! spicy fish eggs! Here you are! Highball! Here you are! The liveliness of a stall has come out. Okay! rolled omelet with spicy fish eggs! This is Aka-Chochin's popular menu &quot;Yakiton&quot;. Strong flavor and hot. It is best for people who like alcohol. JKT) Fun? it's fun! Extremely. It's full of customers. yes! It feels good! Get along well everyone. Have fun chatting with people you don't know. Maybe after this we can go out drinking with 3 or 4 people. That's the best. Around 10 o'clock, everyone get drunk and have fun. It's so much fun. I've done a lot of jobs, but isn't this the best one? happy every day happy to work Happy to be back. JKT) Is the boss kind? Gentle! But don't say it! Don't say that! If I say that, it will get even tougher.haha &quot;Oh, what do you mean?&quot; &quot;Work, you!&quot;haah JKT) He is kind. Really. JKT) Like a father. It's like that in my heart. We've been together every day. We worked together every day for a year and a half. It's like a family relationship. He helps me even when I'm in trouble. When I go shopping, he go together. I had to buy a new vacuum cleaner the other day, boss! Can I take one? yes? photograph! of the video! Jeff, keep up the good work! You can proceed slowly. unless you stop.