Be at Peace Even with a Chaotic Mind 1 June 2022 Om I am here to look with you at something much deeper If a question comes from the mind and the answer is to answer the mind, it will not remain with you. Nothing of what we perceive sensation, memory, and let's include in that nothing there is stable. If you think of yourself in personal terms, then you will have to admit, 'The way I feel is changing. What I think is changing. Who I think I am is changing. Who I want to be is changing. Who I used to be is changing.' Nothing there is stable. So if we are going to search for something, starting from that state of mind, whatever you may imagine that is equally unstable if it is who is a most inconsistent What has satsang got to offer anyone? It can only be, at best, a kind of mirror that reflects something that is not a thing, not a thought, not a memory, not an idea, not even an answer, not even an experience. Because we have had innumerable experiences. Which one have we kept? They're all floating by like clouds passing in the great expanse of the sky. The person itself, until now, or recently, has been placed in the position of a factual self. Like, 'This is what I am. This is what I am.' But this 'I am-ness' is not the true 'I am-ness'. It is only a reflection of consciousness in the mind that is unstable. This is why you feel, and it keeps on changing. So I am not here to address because it is not stable! It is not even healthy! It is not well. It is not that which is eternal in us. So, if satsang has any value at all, it would be that through satsang, this today, now, already started, that somehow some deep recognition of something that is beyond the world And I'm not trying to excite you for a great experience of awakening, 'Ah!' Not like that. Because if awakening comes and, 'Wah, whoa!' and singing hallelujah and stuff, So, don't cling to any desire like that. What I'm pointing, is that which is always here. It doesn't belong to the mind, nor to dreams, or to desires. It is always stable, always complete, always harmonious, always content, always silent, always happy. And I would call that, one's true Being. If we are searching for an experience, it is not somebody's experience. It is here that we take ourselves to be is formed in the mind. The idea we have of who we are is an idea appearing in the mind. What you truly are is before your mind. So I don't know at this point who will listen in such a way, because the Self is not deep, deep, deep, It doesn't exist especially on one dimension. It is total! If it is already here, and if we could conceive of a time that is millions, billions of years ago, that which is called Truth or the pure Self, or the Parabrahman, or the Absolute, has always been here, unchanged, undisturbed by the changeful waves of the mind. If we could conceive of, or project, some idea called it will still be ever perfect and pure. Now, the mind might say, So I'm not going to speak about because we'll have to go to imagination for that. I'm saying, what about now? What is here that is stable, complete, free of anxiety, perfect in nature, peaceful, happy, natural, effortless? I don't want to tell you more about it, because only by discovering it ... it cannot be found but by simple, simple investigation, simple and profound understanding. You don't have to be an intellectual. Sometimes, being too intellectual And everyone and everything including the idea we have of our self, Because we always have ideas of our self, and we keep throwing them out So if there is anyone who is open to, not just open to, to discover what this is, then you may show your hand if it is you. I'll read something for a bit so you can relax a little bit. First, I'll find something I can read. OK, just a few words. Just listen. Don't think, for a moment. It says, 'Love your true Self'. 'Love your true Self', which is ... We don't know. It says, 'Love your true Self'. Is there a false self? 'Love your true Self.' If this was said as one statement, 'Love your true Self', what if we don't know where to start? So it goes on to say, 'Which is naturally happy 'Awaken', it's like a call, 'Awaken to your own nature, And all delusion melts away like a dream'. Is this a poet speaking here? Let's see. 'How much pleasure you take Worldly experiences. 'But to find happiness meaning don't be attached to them. 'The sorrows of duty, Have scorched your heart.' 'The sorrows of duty', let's call 'duty' your obligations, what you feel you have to do. It says what here now? 'Like the heat of the sun, But let stillness fall upon you With its sweet and cooling showers, And you will find happiness. For the world is nothing. Some people will say, 'Whoa, slow down. Don't say that. ''The world is just an idea.'' How can you say that the world is just an idea, I said at some point, If you conceive of yourself as a person, which we all do at some point, then, are you not always changing? Your thoughts are changing. The mind is changing. Feelings are changing. Sometimes the place you live is changing. Your family is changing. Your relationships are changing. Desires are changing. Even memories are changing. Our projections are changing. Everything. Have you ever perceived anything at all which is not changing, including yourself? Take a moment. Whatever you perceived in the mind, or through the senses, is changing. Sometimes you may say, But there'll be a time you don't enjoy it. On your birthday it comes, And nobody can say why. Because there is nothing you will enjoy, It's the nature of the mind that things are always changing. But, if everything is changing, there must be something that I'm not being mystical now. Pure, simple, common sense I'm speaking. We say, 'Oh, my mind is always changing. Last week I called myself a revolutionary. Now I'm calling myself a pacifist. Before I was this and now I am that.' Even a stable profession, 'I used to be a doctor. I used to be a scientist. Now I call myself a gardener.' It was always changing. Have you seen or experienced anything that The world, the universal world, the manifest world, by law, is always changing. But, something must be there that observes this changefulness. Even the most subtle things are changing. There is awareness of it, naturally! But we just forget that, without even trying, naturally you perceive that Even when we believe, and sometimes we try to believe, 'I'm going to love you exactly I will never think badly about you.' 'Yes?' [laughter] I recognise that laughter. We know that is not true but we love the feeling something, 'Forever and ever!' Even when we get married, [laughter] Also, one day, we were sitting under the moon. We were looking up 'Oh, look how beautiful the moon is, Guruji'. I said, Yes, it's very beautiful. She said, 'I wish it was always like that, I said, No you don't. You wish today! But after a few days, you'll say, 'I'm tired of this round moon. You can't sustain unbroken connection and belief in anything you experience. So I'm not going to I'm going to go If all these things are changing and are witnessed to be changing, that which observes them changing must be, relative to them, not changing. Reflect. Supposing we see two balls on a string, swinging, swinging, swinging. Can any of them evaluate what is vertical? Everything is moving. So, therefore, if one is moving, there must be something to say, 'Well nothing is still. That which is able to observe whether they are thoughts or feelings or memory, or projections, or desire ... Sometimes thinking, 'I always wanted this!' OK, you have it. Do you always want it? No. So knowing that, I say, That in which all the things are coming and going and are perceived, That which is unchanging, that is stable. That is your Self. That is the place of the Self. It cannot be seen with the senses, It is not an object. Because it is not an object, all things and all objects, are perceived very clearly. It is without desire! Therefore, it is without judgement. Therefore, it perceives clearly! Not wanting anything it is ever at peace. And yet whatever we perceive, whatever is perceived in it, none of it can exist without It, 'What's the point of all this, Mooji?' Well, if you have a desire, because everyone is troubled by something ... Why are we troubled by things? Because you want them to be a certain way and they won't obey your desire. Wrong or right? 'Yes, I believe this is like that and it turns out to be like that, grrrr ... !' By trying to make stable we feel frustrated. And the one who is feeling frustrated Frustrated today, then really miserable the third day. Nothing is consistent That which perceives them but which itself is not an idea or a thought, or a feeling, or even a sensation, or an idea, or an identity, That is your stable place. How can it be recognised? I'll repeat in a simpler way. If you want to know, to discover, That which is beyond the mind, then whatever you see, no matter how delicious it is ... It's fine if a beautiful feeling comes. Don't throw it away, enjoy. Because soon it will go, anyway, and be replaced by a not nice feeling, or a more beautiful feeling, It says, Because if you're attached ... let the feeling be, When it goes, don't cry. This is the purpose of saying, 'Don't attach or identify with If you do this, you will not feel disappointed. If you are aware of the mind-traffic, but you don't follow them, you don't attach yourself to them and you continue just observing, but with this detached observing, at some point, it's as though they move further away from you, and they don't feel so impactful. It's as though the mind can be like this, and somehow the idea or your experiencing Sometimes people come to me and say, please put your hand on my head'. I say OK, I put my hand on their head. 'Help me, bless me, Guruji.' Why? What's happening? Now, supposing I were to say to you, you know, your mind can be totally crazy, 'But how, how, how? Please, how, how?' It sounds like a dog, 'How-how-how'. 'How do I do this?' And I'm saying, It's OK, OK. Let the mind go. Let it happen. Don't try to stop your mind. Just watch it for a moment, Can anybody hear this? It's answering and responding Would you be up for discovering that stillness which is always present in you, which is naturally complete, naturally happy, naturally peaceful? And it is not dull, it's not boring, it is not rigid. It is the most natural! I'm attending to this question. If you stay observing the energy, the movement of the mind, and you stay only like witnessing. Just be aware that it's happening. Not actively witnessing, and trying to put it down, but just as though, But stay as the neutral awareness. Whatever comes in the picture, it's OK. You don't have to try Even if something reacts like, that's also seen and perceived If you continue to stay like this ... Sometimes, the mind itself will come and say, 'I can't do this, it's boring', and you may think it is you saying this, And if that thought is believed in, You find that there's a 'you' which you are experiencing So stay like this, just being aware. And at some point, it's as though all this noise You didn't do anything for this. You are not a peacemaker. There's peace. And when you did not create it, It is here by itself. And the mind-stuff, the personal stuff, the memories, the abuse, they feel much more distant, And something is just here, and it feels naturally, 'I'm here, but not as the shape 'Whatever shape, whatever history is also belonging to the voice in the desert, Now there is just a field of being. Stay with this field. Sometimes the mind says, Thank you. Guruji, thank you. Ciao, ciao. See you next week.' You got it? No! The one who feels, 'I've got it', that thinks it's got something, Every idea will go. Stay only conscious of your consciousness. First, you're conscious of your mind. Then you're conscious of your mind Then you're conscious that you're conscious. When you're conscious that you're conscious, everything becomes light. Joy floods your being. There's a natural silence, a natural feeling of well-being, beyond even the sense of patience or impatience, or well or unwell. Beyond the field of opposites. It's almost indescribable. All I can say is its nature is peaceful. It's without agitation. And I want to say something now, I'm not going to say too much, as I don't believe in What I'm saying, if you can see it, What I am sharing now, if you can directly see, 'Ah, wow', you will not feel, 'This is too much'. It will only feel, 'Oh, I didn't get that', which cannot retain things, anyway, If you wish to discover your Self, there are not a lot of things you need to learn. It's not about amassing but more about not just what you're looking at. We're used to paying attention to a lot of movement in the mind. But when you discover and this looking is simply happening in you, I may say, But you are who? 'Oh, who am I?' You cannot produce some details about you. It's like you're the space itself! Don't tell anybody. They'll think you're crazy. And you'd be crazy to tell them. Keep marinating your attention All awakened beings Stay with it. Stay with it. Until gradually, And I will tell you something. Every living being is searching for this! We're just not aware that it is this. What you're searching for is what? Rest. Because every time we touch the mind-stuff and person and personality and what kind of person you want to be, But we are so accustomed to the disturbance that we tolerate it and think, 'One day, if only I get this Lamborghini, I'll be really happy and I will be complete'. Some people are looking for something, that when they find it, they say, And you know what happiness is? To be content. You know what contentment is? Not [demonstrates a forced, rigid posture]. To be at peace. To be without desire. When you are complete and happy, All desires trouble us, but nobody tells you this. No one can say, 'Stop desiring'. 'Listen, are you trying to take away my rights? I have the right to desire!' And the truth is you do. We have the freedom to desire, even the whole world, you can desire, but you will not be happy. Now, can we live a life in personhood Of course, But completely happy? No. Because there's nothing in the world which you may get Not even your self. If somebody leaves you and says, 'Listen, create the best idea of yourself!' You say, 'I would like to be this and that. I'd like to be ...' And if were you to get this, at some point you'd start thinking, 'Can I exchange this for this bit? It is the nature of the mind that we experience in this way, Now, I want to give you some good news. It's going to sound like good news, It's just a little break. When you discover ... As you're discovering that unchanging Self, because the mind says, your mind will still be perceived, but its influence will be weakening. And sometimes we're happy, Oh, you mean I can be the Self Something is thinking like that. The mind is thinking like that, 'Yes, yes, you'll be there, it's OK.' But with less and less influence, it's less and less influential, less and less important. Because the nature of the Being Does it mean that, 'Oh, I mustn't like flowers, because I'm the unique, I'm ultimate, No! All this is natural for us. You want to dance? Dance! because you're not trying to be good at it. It's just arising out of your joy, So the one who is awake, or having strong opinions about something! Because they have seen that and they merely make you miserable. They have a choice to work with it more, In fact, this is what everyone is doing. We are wanting an experience, having it, and then letting it go. You have to let it go. Because if you keep holding on, You have to let it go. And, actually, at some point, we recognise the greatness Not killing them, When you're less attached to them, You continue to just notice that mind is coming. Of course, the mind is also All that we experience, the diversities in life, the beautiful sunsets, that lovely dress, that lovely piece of pizza, whatever. Enjoy! There's nothing wrong! 'Thou shall not enjoy pizza as a free person.' They will be enjoyed. And when they go, you will not cling. That's the nature of a natural life. Not saving up things to be happy with, You are the happiness that you are enjoying! As you discover this ... I think my pointing is simple enough. All that is required is to follow it. Try it out for yourself, taste and see! In the Bible, there is something wonderful, it says, 'Taste and see that the Lord is good'. Simple words, no? 'Taste the ice cream and see if you like it'. 'Mm-mm-mm. Yes, very nice.' It says, 'Taste'. What? This guidance, this looking, this contemplation. And see, not 'if' the Lord is good; you will find! Where is the Lord? [looks up] No. Here in the heart of your heart. Now, maybe your attention But I have pointed out a very simple thing. This pointing has always been in the world but the world is not in it. There are some beings who, I've seen your faces for two, three, four, still fighting with the mind. Sometimes, I will make a certain contemplation and some people listen and say, to be giving out for some people right now'. They might say, just a little bit. It's OK. 'Maybe it's too much for the mind, I say, Ah. Have you yourself digested this? Maybe we have to go back to basics. As I have not found anything that I've shared In fact, you'll find that or that any other thing If there are a hundred doors in your journey of Self-discovery, and I tell you, any one of them you can take, the blue door, pink door, glass door, wood door, any one you can take, 'But why? Why is it brown and why is it blue?' Just to suit you! Because on the other side, That's how generous the Lord of the universe is. In accordance with the temperament 'Follow your temperament, but follow earnestly Now, I point out a very simple thing. Sometimes the mind will probably say, 'Listen, this is too easy! It's not exciting.' Listen, I was watching one comedian, it came just now, He was saying that his sister ... They loved watching television all the time. There's a show in England about crime. It's about police and crime, It is called 'Crime Watch'. He was talking to his sister and asked her, 'What about your favourite programme, She said, 'I don't watch it anymore. It's not as good as it used to be.' 'It's not as 'good' as it used to be? What does that mean? We're not catching enough criminals? It means that whatever you find at some point you'll not be interested in it. Can the Self be the same? If we are strongly attached even the realisation of the Self will not be interesting for you. It would just seem like another thing, And this is fine. Because, thankfully, I don't have a commission to go and change the world. There is one called Bodhisattva. He says that, he will not enter nirvana 'Then I'll come in and close the door.' I said, Thank you, Mr Bodhisattva. Find the Truth you are. Do not delay. as though you can find something better. 'I know it's great. I know it's wonderful. I know that everything is perfect, So the manifestation is God's joke, in a way. Who is God? He is here in all, in everyone he is here. Not absolutely! But also absolutely. I'll find another book. The one who understands this, is saying, 'I'm not only free of bondage and liberation'. 'But I thought He's saying, 'I'm not only free of bondage', meaning in the mind and all this stuff, 'I'm free, also, of liberation'. 'But how can he be free of liberation? Liberation means to be free.' It means, 'I'm free of the obsession with I'm free beyond the concept of freedom.' Is it strange or is it OK? OK, let's try another one. 'I'm not only free of purity and impurity.' 'I'm not only free of purity and impurity.' 'But I thought we want to be pure, no?' He says, 'I'm free Why does he say purity and impurity? Free of the interrelated opposites. 'I'm free of bad and good.' 'I'm not only free of separation and union.' 'But I thought He says, 'I'm free of these things. I'm free of them as they appear in the mind.' That's what he's saying. Do you understand? He says, 'I am freedom itself! I'm everywhere, like space.' I'm going to park there for a moment, 'I'm not only free of desire. I'm free of desirelessness, also.' [Mooji] Are you with me? [Mooji] 'I'm not [only] free of bondage. I'm free of even freedom.' [Mooji] Still with me? Mmm! [Mooji] OK. OK. 'I'm not even just free 'Oh, I feel so separate.' 'I'm not [only] free of separation. 'Union? But we want to be united.' He says, 'I'm free He says here, 'I'm freedom itself'. Don't put too many things on the words. 'I'm freedom itself. Can I just talk a little bit about this? Because the last sentence ... We can even say, 'Yes, I checked with you, I'm not only free of purity and impurity'. 'Ah, OK, Guruji, I got you, got you.' 'I'm not only free of bondage, 'Um, yes, yes, I got you, got you, got you.' 'Not only free of separation, I'm free even of the sense of union.' 'OK, I'm with you, with you, yes.' 'I'm freedom itself.' 'Yes, Guruji, I'm with you, I got you, got you.' 'I'm everywhere like space.' You got me? 'I'm everywhere like space!' 'Hmm?' 'Could you say that again, Guruji?' 'I'm everywhere like space.' 'Why, ''Everywhere like space''? I thought I'm just here, listening with you. Am I up there as well?' Yes, but not as a person! If you're understanding with the mind, all those statements are telling you, 'I am free from bondage and liberation 'I'm free of myself as a person, also!' 'I'm free of being the good person 'Yes, yes, OK.' 'I'm freedom itself.' 'I thought you had to be free of something, 'What is freedom itself?' 'I'm everywhere like space.' 'Well, now we see it like poetry, Guruji. It's a koan or something. Who can be everywhere like space?' 'I need to go back to Brazil. Can I just be there like space?' So that's incorrect understanding. What is there, without travelling? And can this be answered only in the mind, How to verify what here is called the Avadhuta? Dattatreya is speaking. How to verify? I'm going to tell you again. 'How is it that I'm everywhere like space? That doesn't seem a reasonable thing to say. He must be making some kind of metaphor. How can you be everywhere?' And if you're listening like that, it's because you have captured yourself in the shape of the person 'Oh, so I can be everywhere?' No! 'You' can't be everywhere. You're right here 'Then why does he say, When you continue to look and see, 'Yes, this can be seen. Yes, my idea of myself is also seen. Oooh! Yes. Yes. My body, also, is seen somehow.' There's a seeing The perceiving doesn't rely but on a deeper seeing in which anything perceivable, subtly manifest and are perceived. That which perceives them, These are questions for now! Whatever I'm speaking with you now Because it says, Don't try to be everywhere, first of all. I'll let you off. OK? Don't try to be everywhere. Don't try ... Don't try to be everywhere in this way. He doesn't mean that. If I am not the person I imagine myself to be, if I'm not even, as a fact, because this body, I say is my body, This body does not know ... If I'm unconscious somewhere and somebody says, This body's not going to say, 'Here!' It doesn't know you. Your body is not you. You may call it your temple. It's a lovely word. Or your instrument, or just your body; 'Your' means ... If I say 'mine' or 'yours', It means that belongs to me. 'My body was so exhausted.' My body, not me. Can you understand what I'm saying here now? 'My body. My eyes, my right eye is seeing about, I would say, 80 or 85 percent good seeing. My left eye is about 30 percent.' What sees seeing? And the capacity to see? 'My right ear is very ....' But my left ear, it's hardly coming.' What is even aware of the capacity of the ears, or the mind to hear through the ears? 'My hearing. My sight.' 'My relationship has fallen apart. 'My life, not me.' 'My house, my family. Not me. My faith, my religion, my prime minister, my home, my passport. Not me.' Who is 'me'? All these things can be lost. You say, 'My loss'. Who is 'me'? Who is 'I'? That which is aware. But it's even aware as the one who lost something. But is this clear? How can it be clear? Not just clear in the mind as an idea, but cleared out as a strong belief. I will finish where I started. Whatever you can perceive, and you know is not stable, is not the Truth. That which is aware of instability that one is beyond them. That is True. That is True. No. It is Truth! I am here at the place of Truth. If I'm asking you to believe this ... I'm not really asking you to believe it. I'm asking if this is clear for you. How can it become more clear? If you have this much attentiveness and yearning, because even as I speak, when it meets the sense of the untruth, the untruth will resist it. Some of you It's still only just after four o'clock. You may feel, 'I want to go to bed', or even, 'I just feel I need a sandwich, This is the mind feeling like, 'Mmmh', And this energy in us, we have lived with and obeyed, I'm not asking you to change your energy. Don't identify so quickly. Observe for as long as you can [M.] Who can follow this? [M.] Who will continue to follow this? [Mooji] Thank you! I'm here for you to come and verify, I will not just listen to you. Many people say, 'Yes, I've been there, Guruji. Can I have the certificate? I'm saying, Shut up. Not you. The one whose presence does not have to say it. They are naturally attractive to those who venerate Truth, that seek or love God and who are here to discover the Truth. You are naturally attracted. No, no, no. Move in your life. Your very presence, in fact, without intention, communicates something more deep You become the embodiment of love and peace, and health, and joy, when your life becomes But it's not enough to read it and say, No. You must stay with it until you're not able to not stay with it, that it stays with you, as you. In fact, it doesn't come from anywhere, because it is not located elsewhere. It is here, only to be discovered, to be recognised and honoured. I feel happy within myself. Because in the space of an hour or so, I feel enough in my heart, but now that understanding must detonate in you; it must combust into spirit in you. That is called sadhana, that you continue to look, not just to believe. We think in this world, if you study something ... Some people have a very strong intellect, they grasp something, we call it knowledge. But if it is not known in your heart, in a time of great challenge or stress, whatever you think you know, only mentally, it will collapse under pressure. Therefore, it's important that At first, it might feel, 'Oh, my mind is too strong for this'. Don't give in to that. Continue. Continue. Grace is with you. Your mind cannot do it by itself. Your person cannot do it by itself. Because, largely, is mostly shaped in the mind. But you are not just your mind. You are infinitely greater than I don't want you just to hear this or to say, but to discover and prove And I'm not going to tell you that Some of you know already, Your life is becoming more and more this. I don't have anything else to share, Nothing more is needed, for now. [Mooji] Thank you. [silence] Don't pay attention Pay attention to the state of your Being. It's a different thing! Don't look to the mind, No. Don't look to your mind. [silence] You're sitting here. You can feel and listen What do you have to do to perceive them? This is the marvelousness of consciousness. What are you even doing to understand? Simply because you choose, and you are open, understanding happens. The mind might tell you, Sometimes the mind may appear 'Climb that hill. Go, go! Guruji is going to be disappointed.' Sometimes it may speak like this. But you must discern. How to discern? When you have offered your life, please rid me of ego and replace me with you, merge me in my heart', something begins to work in your favour. It speaks in the way of intuition. You may feel, 'I just don't feel to do that'. You can follow that. Another time you feel, and you know it's from the mind, 'How can I learn intuition?' You cannot learn intuition. If your heart yearns for Truth, the grace of God is with you. More and more you will experience that you're going a certain way 'Hello sister, how are you? You say, 'No, no, I'm late. I've got to go.' And you didn't discern that because you prioritised your intention! And if you had given your attention for a moment ... Being very neutral and empty, you may find that an experience takes place, that, if you had gone with your mind, it would never have given this joy. When you listen and develop that sensitivity inside your heart, you will not know what bad things you missed, because you didn't experience them. And what if you did experience that Actually, if you're smart, this does something good for you too. Whatever happens, you can learn from it. But the more you listen with your heart, there's no reason You'll come, at some point, to tell me if you're discovering this to be true or not. If you are really understanding your terrestrial life will also change. The way in which your life flows will change. It has to! Thank you, again. I'll just spend a moment or two to sit, not because I have to, [silence] Let go of everything! Don't be anything. [very long silence] Vlad, you explain to her that even if she doesn't understand something good is happening inside her. [long silence] Bless you that your truest and deepest urge My attitude and connection with you is that in my heart I meet you as Truth, and the Truth you are. I will converse with you on this basis. And to remind you that of a higher consciousness, of pure love, and that the opportunity is here for each of you to discover this more completely, to your complete joy and peace. [silence] Thank you. Copyright (c) 2022 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.