Welcome to this English vocabulary master class. Today you are going to learn 100 words These are words that I use every single So if you use them, you're going to speak Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. First, in this master class, you're going to learn 14 phrases to help you speak like a Now notice you're learning a complete phrase. So pay attention to all the the articles, the sentence structure matters. So notice here we have Feel free plus infinitive. The infinitive is of course 2 plus the base verb. Feel free to ask me anything. This is this is used as a I'm inviting you to ask me whatever you'd like. Remember you can change that verb. I could say. Feel free to send me the report when it's ready. This sounds polite and professional. And remember, it's an open invitation. You're not required to do this. It's an option if you say send This is the imperative and it's So to sound polite and professional I can say feel free to You can find the link in the description. And this is a real example because I summarize everything from this Feel free to download it #2 I thoughts O your colleague could say to you. Feel free to send me the report when it's done. And then when it's done, you can send it I look forward to hearing your thoughts. Notice our sentence structure. Look forward to plus gerund, your verb in ING. I look forward to hearing. Don't make this mistake. Make sure you have the gerund and this So in this case, your interest their ideas, is their opinions, their feedback. You could say I look forward I look forward to meeting you tomorrow. Now with the structure, you can also use a noun. I look forward to our meeting. That's the noun form. I look forward to our meeting tomorrow. What about you? Are you looking forward to my next lesson? If you are put yes, yes, yes, to show your yes, yes, in the Commons #3 here's my take on it. One's take on something is So my take on it is simply my opinion on it. For example, I just read the Here's my take on them. Them because recommendations is plural. Now when I want to share my opinion, my I think she raised some valid points. I can use this as a question. What's your take on the report on the Now, this is the same as in my opinion. But notice that preposition difference So I see a lot of mistakes If someone asks you your You can use this to start. From my perspective, I think the consultant's So here you can add on. I think an opinion word even though you And after you share your opinion, you can invite What about you? What's your perspective #5 This is a polite way to ask for Your colleague could say, from my perspective, You could comment on this Oh really? And then you can add on this expression. Can you help me understand Can you help me understand? This is a great expression if sounding very direct or authoritative or angry. If someone says, I don't think you can say, can you help me understand why? Number six, I'll get back to This is a great one because someone might ask you a question or to provide information You don't know the answer. Instead of saying I don't know, you can say You can provide a time reference if you'd like. I'll get back to you by the end of the day. So you just gave yourself a deadline. You could say I'll get back to you in What does ASAP mean? This is a very common acronym. Put it in the comments ASAP. What's the acronym? Put it in the comments #7 Can you fill me in? This is a great one. It's a casual way to ask You could say to your colleague, I can you fill me in on the staff meeting? Notice here when I specify the you have to use the additional preposition This is often used by one person provide information to someone else. For example, your boss could say to you, And then if you want to specify the on the new filing system #8 which You can use this to clarify which one you should prioritize So you can use this with two So if you have multiple tasks, you asks for help on the report and I Which one would you like me to prioritize? So now, instead of feeling overwhelmed, you know You can use this even just to get I could say to you, from your perspective, So you're not my boss, you're not But I trust you to provide Which one should I prioritize? From your perspective #9 I trust The word trust is used a This is used to express overall So you might come to me and say, This is my first time giving a know that I have confidence in you and or I can add on to this and I can So the statement is you can handle this. Handle means you have the ability to do it. You can handle this. Now if I add I trust it's adding certainty. I'm certain, I know I trust you can handle this. Number 10. What can we learn from this? Such a powerful question. You can use this to encourage a situation, generally a negative situation. So if something negative happened, I didn't get the promotion, you Or I failed my ions, what can I learn from this? So instead of being upset, angry, mad, you're thinking about what you can do differently. This is a great expression to use So again, maybe something bad happened. We lost the client. What can we learn from this? And then you can start brainstorming things you Now to change the sentence structure, you So notice you can learn something from but also something the situation can teach So notice the sentence structure. We have our verb to be. I am happy our adjective. So you need to conjugate the verb to I'm happy to address that. And this is used to show a So when your boss asks you to fill Raphael And then remember, if you specify the something, you need that extra preposition So you're showing your willingness to do this. This is also a great way to end a We're happy to answer any questions you have. So remember that structure to be happy This is used to offer support, encouragement, Your coworker could be upset and project so you want to show your support. You can say how can I support you? You can add on how can I best support you add on your willingness and say I'm You can use this to offer If you know your Co worker is very busy, you could say you have a lot on your plate with How can I support you #13 I value your input. This is to acknowledge the importance So let's use this right now. How can I make my lessons better? How can I make this lesson better? Or how can I make my lessons overall better? Please share your thoughts in the comments. I value your input. And this isn't just an I really value your input. I truly value your input. So please, if there's anything I can I want you to love these lessons. So please put your comments below I appreciate your hard work on this. Everyone loves to be appreciated so appreciation for someones work. You can start by complimenting someone, I appreciate your hard work on this. Adding that on will make that Or maybe your friend is planning a party for I appreciate all your hard work on this. You can Add all your hard work to intensify it. Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are then I want to tell you This is my premium training program. Where we study native English speakers So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description for to my website and click on Finally Fluent Academy. Now let's continue with our lesson. Now let's continue and you can Our first phrase, I'm on board with that. This is used when you agree support for a suggestion or an idea, for example. We're on board. We are the verb to be. We're on board with that preposition with. We're on board with the new And don't forget to conjugate that verb to I'm on board next. Are we on the same page? This is used to confirm that everyone has the After our discussion, it seems We all have the same opinion, specify what that something is you can say Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the description. Next. It's a win win situation. This is a situation where all I could say subscribing to J Forest I win by growing my YouTube channel and you win by getting all of these free video So put win win, win, win, put It's a win win. Our next phrase, I could ask This is used to request You can identify something specific and say what Remember, you can replace the noun, the new Next, we need to think outside the box. Have you heard this one To think outside the box? This is to encourage creative If you're trying to solve a difficult problem, you might say thinking outside the box You need innovative, creative solutions. Everybody start thinking outside the box next. I love this one. Let's circle back to that later. When you circle back to something, it means you stop discussing it now and So you postpone your discussion until later. You could say we only have 10 minutes Whatever this is your discussion about the Let's circle back to this later. Let's postpone it now and discuss it later. Notice the grammar. This is in the imperative. It's often the case because we use Let's circle back to Dina, our next phrase. We need to prioritize our tasks. If you prioritize something, it means you So the most important or of your list of to do's because it's This is a common situation. We don't have enough time to complete I love this one. Please keep me in the loop. Do you know this one? Native speakers love using it. This is used to request that information I could say I'm taking tomorrow off, but Notice grammatically this I'm giving you an instruction or a suggestion. You can add please at the beginning or the Good, keep me in the loop on that. Next, Have they ironed out the details? This is used to ask if something For example, we need to iron out meeting and notice that pronunciation in the past. Simple iron doubt, iron doubt, This is used to express your I could say if you have any suggestions for I'm open and willing to And that is 100% true. So please share your suggestions in the comments. I'm all ears. Next, let's take a step back. This is when you pause to Our marketing campaign didn't work. Let's take a step back. Let's pause what we're doing, working on the marketing campaign to review Let's take a step back. Notice this is also in the imperative This is a great one. I beg to differ. I beg to differ. Use this when you disagree. Agree with someone's opinion or statement. Your Co worker could say the work because we didn't think outside the box. You could say I beg to differ, which The campaign was great, it I beg to differ. Next, I'll cut to the chase. This is when you say your main point directly, For example, I'll cut to the chase. You're not getting the promotion. Notice grammatically, the Simple. I will cut to the chase. I'll cut to the chase. Even though the information I'll cut to the chase. You're not getting the promotion. This is a great one. Run it by the team first. This is when you share ideas I think it's a great idea, but You should share it with Frank And why should you do that? Because our next phrase, Frank calls the shots. This is to say that someone is in charge. They have the authority to make decisions. You should run your idea by Notice it's the shots. It's always plural. I call the shots. Our next phrase, the balls in Frank's elses responsibility to make a Maybe you're talking to your coworkers and as our English teacher and you don't want to your court to give responsibility Remember to conjugate the verb to be The ball is in your court, Next, we need to nip this in the bud. This is an important one a problem at the early stages before Let's say you have a new policy for a dress code, but none of the new employees So that's the problem and you want You want to nip it in the bud. Grammatically, the verb is nip and to You need to nip this in the bud. This is a great one. It's not my cup of tea. Do you know this one? This is used to say that you dislike something. Public speaking is not my cup of tea, And remember, there are two correct contractions. It isn't. It's not. You can use either one. They hammered out the agreement. This is used to say that something Have you hammered out the terms yet? This is commonly used with Phrase 20. We're swamped right now. Doctor Kepner, we're swamped. This is to say, you're really busy. We've been swamped since Vanessa quit. The expression is 2 be swamped. So your verb is to be, and then Next, we'll take that into consideration. This is to say you'll consider something. You'll consider someone's feedback, Now, because I'm all ears, you You said, Jennifer, I think you should I could say thanks for your suggestion. Take that into consideration. Next, we need to think long term. This is used to emphasize the importance of considering future I could say publishing videos three but I need to think long term. Is that sustainable for me? All become very swamped very quickly. Nice. Sorry I'm tied up. This means you're busy and therefore unavailable. You could say. I wish I could help you, but I'm tied up. I'm already busy with something Now you can specify the something and use the Phrase 24, let's put our heads together. This is used to suggest brainstorming, or more than one opinion. Because the opinion is in your head. And if you put heads together, then If we put our heads together, I And finally, phrase 25 to This is when you consider opposing I could say I think 3 videos per day is too much So now I'm going to think day and think about what that would take, what my And that will help me make my decision. You have already learned so many complete phrases. Let's focus on phrasal verbs because they're so important to understanding native And let's focus on phrasal And you'll complete quizzes after each section. First, let's review the most And at the end, you'll complete When you pull off a task, it means that you For example, let's say that double their sales by the end of the month. That's a difficult task. So you might say, I don't how we'll accomplish complete this difficult task. I don't know how we'll pull this your sales after you can say, I I can't believe we did it. We completed this difficult task. And often to reassure someone when you can say, don't worry. I know you'll pull it off. You'll pull it off, you'll achieve, you'll complete this difficult This is a must know phrasal verb you make that document visible on your device. It could be a computer, laptop, phone, tablet, So if you're in a meeting, you might say, Give me a second to make that Now you can also use with social situations. You might be having coffee with a friend You make those photos visible on your And it's very common to hear sort of customer support or client support. Let's say you're making a dentist appointment. They're going to first say, And then they'll say, give me a second to pull important information, but they need to Pull up. Now we also use pull up with vehicles. So if you're driving and you it means you're going to Now, you may or may not stop. You may just slowly approach that store, read Or you may pull up to that store, slowly Here's an example of me pulling up to my mailbox. So notice how I slowly approach my mailbox. I'm seeing if there's any I keep going. Don't confuse this with pull over because Now. When you pull over, it means your vehicle to the side of the road and you stop. So you always stop when you pull over. So if you're in a taxi or an Uber, you might You can take the car to the side of Now we also use this with the police a siren behind you, well, you have to pull over. You have to bring your car to the side So here you can see me pulling I'm coming to a complete stop. Now, you can also pull in and garage or some enclosed space for your vehicle. So when you enter the parking I'm pulling into my garage and you're pulling out of the parking So you might say make sure you look both ways Make sure you pull in slowly or carefully. So here you can see I'm pulling into my driveway, which is a confined space, and now you We also use pull in and out for a chair. So when you bring the chair closer to When you bring your chair farther away from So if you're in a busy restaurant you might say, oh, excuse me, can you Can you bring your chair closer to the table Or if you're too close to the table, And traditionally men will pull out Maybe that's a little old fashioned these days. Now you can also pull out of an event, and that means you withdraw from that And that event can be a race, a So let's say there's a competition and there are five people Now maybe Sarah decides to pull out. She pulls out of the competition, which means She withdraws from the competition. Or maybe you're competing in a marathon, but you hurt your leg the week before, You can also pull something apart, and then you separate it into individual So something simple like an orange or a grapefruit You can also pull apart electronics or more complicated things as This is a great one. This means to regain your worried, anxious, or in a extreme emotional state. And to regain your composure So if you're really agitated, maybe you got pulled fast and you're really anxious, your friend in the pull yourself together, which is another So go from really anxious To pull through means to survive or to So we use this in a health context. So let's say that Greg had a major heart He survived that major heart attack. Now let's say Greg has that major heart You talk to the doctor and the first thing you're Is he going to pull through? Is he going to survive? Is he going to recover? The doctor might say, I think he'll pull through, or maybe it's too soon to And finally to pull together. This is when you work together as a team. So remember, that team had to double Well, they pulled together to pull it And after the boss might say, I'm really It's amazing that everyone Now you know the most common Are you ready for your quiz? Here are your questions. So now hit pause and take as much And when you're ready, hit How did you do with that quiz? Well, let's find out. Here are the answers. Hit pause. Take as much time as you So how did you do with that quiz? Share your score in the comments. And what was your favorite poll? Phrasal verb? Share that as well. And now let's move on and talk about This is used when a flight leaves the ground. For example, tomorrow my Or what time did your flight take off? So this is another way of simply Now, we also use this phrasal verb to So you might be at a party and it's getting late. You have an early meeting and I'm going to take off, I'm going to leave. Or someone might ask you, what What time did you leave? Now, take off is also used to So at night, before you get into your Right before you get into the I can also take off my Or if it's really hot in the room, you might say, oh, it's so hot in here, I Or when you come into the house and it's cold out, you take off your hat, you take off So you can take off an item of clothing, but you can also take off off accessories Takeoff can also mean to become successful. For example, after I improved my English My career became successful. My career took off. Or I could say overnight my YouTube channel So many different phrasal verbs would So make sure you learn all these When you take after someone, you resemble And this is most commonly For example, it's very common for a son to take They look very similar. But you might also say Julie is so funny. She really takes after Uncle Frank. So maybe Uncle Frank is really funny. He's always telling these hilarious jokes. And then Julie, it is also really funny. She takes after Uncle Frank. So you can use this with personality When you take something apart, you disassemble it. So it goes from being whole one complete item and So if your car isn't working, you might take apart the motor or take apart the engine to You might also take apart a desk or rid of it when you're removing it from when it's in individual parts rather When you take something back, it means that you So let's say you bought a You come home and you realize they don't fit Well, you can take them back. So you go to the store, you return the Now we only use this when you So with online purchases, we actually So if you order something from Amazon and we simply say I returned the shoes I sent back the shoes. So just keep that in mind. We only use take back when you You can also take someone back, which means So let's say that Rob and Julie were a They ended their relationship. But then Rob, he begs Julie, please take me back, please accept me again as your But Julie's friend might say, don't take Rob back. Why would you take Rob back? You shouldn't take Rob back to take on. When you take on a project or a task, it simply For example, your boss might ask the team who on this new project or this new client, and you So you accept that responsibility for that job. You can also take over a a task, which means that you assume So let's say Julie look on the project. But then Julie decided to go on a three-week So the responsibility goes from Julie to you. Hey Maria, can you take over this Or it can be, can you just take over this project? So it can be permanent, it becomes your a temporary situation while someone is When you take someone out, it means you a meal together or going to the movies For example, let's say it's your birthday. Well, your husband, your best friend, you out for dinner, which means they invite That's the important part. Or they might take you out for a go to the movies together or So you can do other activities. But it's mainly used with meals. So maybe your friend says, Why would you take Rob back? He didn't even take you out for your birthday. Oh, he didn't invite you out for You can take up a new hobby or activity, which So you could tell your friends which means you decided to start karate Or your friend might say, I I didn't know you started So now you know the most common Are you ready for your quiz? Here are the questions. So go ahead and hit pause. Complete the quiz, take as much time as you need, and when you're ready, hit How'd you do on that quiz? Well, let's find out. Here are the answers. So hit pause and review these answers Now let's review the common you'll complete a quiz at the end to get ahead. This means to progress. So to make progress towards something and we most commonly use this in a career For example, if you want to get Would you agree with that? Put in the comments. If you want to get ahead, you need fluent English. Now notice how I didn't specify get ahead in what So don't forget that. But you can also just say if you want to get ahead Do you know this one? When you get along with someone, it means you I really get along with my boss, but I don't get along with my boss. So you can use it in both So which describes you? I get along with my boss. I don't get along with my boss to get away. This means to escape. So you can use this in two contexts. The criminal got away, so that means he escaped. The robber got away. He stole my car and he got away. He escaped. But we also use this more in the sense the difficulties of your daily life. Oh, I really need to get away work has been I need to get away. Another common phrasal verb with getaway is to get away with something and For example, she got away with the crime. This means she wasn't punished for the crime. So she did something wrong, She got away with stealing the car. Notice that verb ING with stealing This is when you are punished for something, but So maybe you forgot to submit a report Your boss didn't fire you, but they So you were punished, but you were We also use this more in a criminal context. She stole the car, but she got off She only had to do community service to get back. This is used to say that you return So let's say you're at home, but then you go So now you can say I got back at 7:00. What time did you get back? Now you can specify the place. What time did you get back home? Back to the office? Oh, I got back around seven. We commonly use this with your vacations. What time did you get back Oh, I got back on Tuesday. You returned home from Italy. There is also the phrasal You might say, oh, I really When you get back to someone, it So if I say I need to get back to John, it means So maybe he asked me a question and I need to get back to John or you. John might say, when are When are you going to respond to my question? When you get back into something, it means you continue doing something So let's say you decided to learn and you play guitar every week And then you stop playing guitar. You get very busy at work, but So you say, oh, I need to get back into guitar. I need to get back into my guitar lessons. So maybe you could use this I need to get back into my English language class. Are you enjoying this lesson on phrasal verbs? You are probably a little bit confused as well because there are just so And if you want to become very then I want to tell you about This is my premium training program where movies, YouTube, and the news so you idioms, and expressions very quickly and easily. Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach so you can look in the description to learn Now let's continue on with our next get This is used for revenge. So if you didn't get back to John, which didn't answer his question, maybe He'll try to get revenge on on you. So maybe he'll tell everyone and that's how he gets back at you This is when you support someone or something. So let's say your company has a new policy You can say I can really get behind that policy. You support that policy to get by. This is when you have just We most commonly use this So you might say with So it means you can pay your bills, but just enough at the end of the month I'm getting by to get into trouble. I'm sure you do this all the time. When you get into trouble, it just means doing something you're not supposed So kids get into trouble all the time. That's why you don't leave your kids at because they're going to get into trouble. They're going to write on all the walls with They're going to get into trouble to get on. This is when you board, which certain methods of transportation. So you can get on a plane, I got on the plane. You entered the plane, you boarded an expression to say that someone So you might say my grandma is getting on, She's become very old. My grandma's getting on, so she has What's the opposite of on? I'm on the plane, I got on the plane, And remember, you only get off certain methods of This is my stop. I need to get off the bus, get off the You get in and get out of I got So don't confuse those two. We also use get in when you enter a room in a So this is very common at work. A coworker could ask you, They mean what time did you enter the office. So you can also use it to mean what Because when you enter the office So what time did you get in is another way Now in this case, although we have an expression to get off, So someone could ask you, oh, What time do you usually get off? What time are you getting off tomorrow? This means what time do you finish work? Do you end work just for the day? To get out is also used as So let's say your friend Get out. Get out, get out of here. Get out of town. So you can add get out of here, or less It's just to show that I can't believe it. What? Get out, get out. So if your friend says something I'm moving to Antarctica, Why? Why are you doing that? When you get out of something it means you avoid doing something unpleasant. So I could say I need to get out of cleaning the garage because that's unpleasant and This is when people organize socially. They join each other socially. So I might ask, what time are So what time are we going to meet each have a cup of coffee, go for Now, if you specify the noun you getting together with your friends tonight? You probably know this one to get up. What time do you get up? This is when you leave your bed in the So what time do you wake up? This is when you open your eyes, but then So I wake up at 6:00 AM, but How about this one? Get up to What did you get up to last night? This is a common way of simply Oh, what did did you get up to last night? Oh, not much, I watched a movie. We also used this one though to imply My kids are always getting up to no good. This is the same thing as getting into Oh what did you get up to last night? It's what did you do last night? To get across this is to So as a non-native speaker, you might say I have a hard time communicating successfully. And if you have a hard time someone might ask you what are you getting at? What are you getting at? This is another way of saying, What do you mean? So if you're trying to explain something they can say what are you getting at? Now to get at can also mean to successfully reach So let's say I have a shelf and I I might say I can't get at my hat. I can't reach my hat to get rid of. This is when you throw away so permanently remove. Unwanted items. So remember I said I wanted to get there's so many things I need to get rid of. There's so many unwanted things in my So maybe once a year you can go through get rid of unwanted things. To get wound up about something is when So let's say your father doesn't So every time he sees something he gets wound up, he gets really angry. But you might say to your dad, get over it. Get over it. To get over something is when have strong feelings towards something else. And those strong feelings are So if your dad gets really wound oh, just get over it, it's not a big deal. You can, of course, get over someone. Do you know this one? When you get over someone, it means you no So after my divorce, it took me It took me years to stop having Now someone could say get over it. Stop being upset about the situation but that might be a little insensitive. You can also get over an illness, which It took me weeks to get over my cold. It took me weeks to recover This is how you travel within you might Google what's the best And of course, it's not by car. You don't want to get around by car So walking is the best way to get around, or taking the subway is the best When you get around to something or to do something after not So let's say I was trying to get out of cleaning the garage because I didn't really want But I finally got around to cleaning the garage. So I finally cleaned the garage. After a long time of not cleaning the take control of your life or your emotions. So let's say your friend is really upset she has not gotten over him and you want but instead you tell your friend You need to take control of your emotions because your friend is crying all the She's really Moody, angry, not pleasant to be get it together, which is a little bit of There are many phrasal verbs with get When you get through something, it means you It was really difficult for me to get Obviously that's a difficult situation. Hopefully you don't say get over it but I had a hard time getting So you can use this in a personal situation. You can use it in a work situation as well. I don't get along with my boss, so I have I have a hard time dealing with our meetings When you get through something, it finish something that was very I finally got through the report. So you finished it, but it It was difficult. When you get through to someone, it them after numerous attempts So let's say I needed to get back to John. I needed to respond to John. But every time I called John, I got his voicemail. I could say I'm having a hard So I can't get back to John But we also use to get through communicate something to someone in So I told my friend that she shouldn't quit her job and I explained all the reasons So I finally made her understand Your head is probably spinning right now but all you need is some practice, So let's do that right now with a quiz. So you have A to review and You have filled your vocabulary, but of Do you want me to keep making If you do them, put yes, yes, yes, put And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And I have another master class I know you'll