&quot;1980.&quot; The 80s were all about And then there was this: &quot;Every October a hole appears in the &quot;...hole in the ozone shield is the size &quot;The protective ozone layer is &quot;We are all at risk.&quot; Scientists warned that humanity was on track Without it ecosystems would collapse, skin cancer rates would skyrocket, and life as we knew it would cease to exist. But today, the ozone layer is healing. In an unprecedented act, the world came together So how did we do it? And what can we learn from it? The ozone layer is a sort of "belt" around It protects every living thing by absorbing two types of It's a powerful shield, but In 1985, scientists discovered a right over Antarctica. 40% of the layer had dissipated, Scientists realized the hole formed in the This was a wake up call. It wasn't small and far in the future. It was now and way bigger That's Dr. Solomon, an atmospheric chemist. In 1986, she flew to Antarctica, to investigate the cause of the ozone hole. "Leading the team is Susan Solomon, a young atmospheric chemist You know once you step off the plane in Antarctica, if you've never been there before, your main goal is to get out &quot;Do you want to do the next one?&quot; But what really our goal was to take measurements, not just of ozone, but also of different chemicals Some scientists released balloons in the sky While others took measurements on the ground. And they all came to the same conclusion. The biggest problem was chlorine from a man-made On the ground CFCs aren't harmful. But once they float up to the stratosphere They bind with ozone to make Then the loose oxygen atoms freeing it to destroy more ozone molecules. And that causes a chain reaction. The long lifetime of the chlorofluorocarbons They live anywhere between 50 and 150 years It means that every year that you use what you use the year before So it just builds up and builds up exponentially. And back then we used a lot of CFCs. The US had already moved away But most of the world hadn't yet. And they were still in everything from refrigerators The entire world needed to make a big change Catastrophe. Catastrophe. Unmitigated catastrophe. In 1987, ozone levels had dropped This growing threat led to some of the fastest So I like to think of it as, there's three at addressing environmental problems. So it was personal. It was perceptible and the solutions If you've been sunburned, you know that So everybody understands skin cancer. The personal nature of the threat is huge. The perceptible was easy to do You can just watch it get where there should have been a lot of ozone. And we have practical solutions. It was easy to find substitutes for you know, less than a year to do. It was a very straightforward switch, And I think the main unifying factor Scientists like Dr. Solomon held &quot;I think we will eventually see large scale The ozone hole started showing up "It's those damn fluorocarbons, they've "Macaroni, it will burn off." "Well so will the ozone, eventually." And all this public awareness put pressure "We are here today because we recognize And the Montreal Protocol made it official. It recognized "that world-wide emissions and result in adverse effects on human health It listed control measures to reduce ozone Including help for developing countries who need alternative technology Every single country eventually Making it the only universal treaty And the most successful environmental agreement Soon after, the world's largest CFC producer Since the protocol went into effect the consumption of ozone-depleting substances including CFCs, plummeted. Today, more than thirty years after the ozone hole has stopped growing And by 2065 it is expected to But there's more to be done. After the CFC ban we began using HFCs don't deplete the ozone layer but they that contributes to climate change. And it's the fastest growing one. So in 2016, the Montreal Protocol and now they are being phased out too. But they are only one part &quot;Climate change is already happening, &quot;Experts say that we have until 2030 &quot;People are suffering.&quot; &quot;People are dying.&quot; &quot;Entire ecosystems are collapsing.&quot; &quot;Unprecedented and even irreversible changes &quot;It is beyond any doubt that Climate change, our most challenging environmental So I think people in most parts and are concerned about, They found it to be perceptible. And we are finding practical solutions. It's not true that we can't do it anymore. We need to keep our eye on the ball And if we do we will get the environment