- A leg of lamb, you know, its for me, the quintessential In fact, when I was with the this was one of the classic Family, you know, everyone would and that was classic, doing a leg of lamb roasted as we're going to do today. You see I have a whole leg here. The whole leg, what we and I get it with the hip So you can buy it with, The first thing that I'm going to do, is to remove that bone. Taking a piece of meat here, that piece of meat at the actually the end of the filet, you know. You have to watch when you buy very often people are a bit like if it was something It's a question of following the bone. And the bone here, you You can do, the Scotch for example, we'll do the Scotch barley type So that big bone that can be cleaned, it can be frozen, and you can use it. You see the end of it here in that socket, that the end of the femur bone here. So this is removed, and usually as I say, you take all the fat out and freeze it, rather. So what we do here, taking as much fat as Then I turn it on the other side to remove the fat on this side. This is the hip, part of the hip. This here where you basically You see there is not much you just have here the fell, or the peau, they call that type of But on this part here, there is a lot of fat and you want to remove it because we are going to And if you put the topping on top of the fat, then have the topping the fat underneath. So that's no good. Remember that the strong taste of lamb a lot of people don't It's because you don't if you don't remove the fat enough. All of this is going to taste strong. You know, if you remove the fat the strong taste is already in the fat. What we do too, at the end of the shank bone here, I'm what we call Lasure in French, That is the mouth that piece which is the the mouth that you can cook We take it so that at the end You see that part here So this is quite lean. What we do, we taking you know you can take a into slivers so that it's kind of pointed so that you can put with your knife, make whole We flavor the meat like that with little sliver all over the place. You know, you put a dozen in France is usually cook medium rare and that's how I'm going to cook it today. If you like it, well You know, it's fine. It's your piece of meat, you But conventionally, if no in any other way, I would This is what is called a spring lamb, which used to indicate which now indicate an animal between six to nine months old, you know. So we're going to roast to start it with a little bit of salt and pepper, you know, all around on top and all this. And you do quite a lot with I would serve 15, 20 people And a taste of garlic on top so we of course don't really a tiny bit of olive oil. I put in my hand, you know, that it doesn't stick Then I put it upside down this like that for a little while underneath. Then we'll put the topping, special topping on top. And by cooking it on it melts basically most of So now it goes into the oven Upside down. Remember that the only piece of meat if you start thinking which which is a big muscle with fat on top. What did I do there? I removed the fat. If I have on the other and it's made of layer of fat, layer of meat, layer you cannot do it rare. You have to braise it to melt the fat. You know then that the the fat by braising it. So what we want to do on Actually you know first and put it separate but garlic, shallot, which are a So this is my base. I'm going to chop this I will put bread crumb About that amount, four, Day-old bread, you know. This and that is going the topping on to put and brown, you know it's going to be Later on when I'm ready like a table stool of oil in so the bread is not dry and But for the time being, this And meanwhile we are going which goes with it, which And the Gratin of potato is also classic. This is what we call pomme The boulanger is the baker, and the boulangere, of course, We call that pomme boulangere because in older time people would bring it to the baker in town to put it in the oven for a few hours. We have potato, we have onion, garlic and we are going to do In there, you know, to flavor it. We're going to put a To saute the onion that I have there. We can even put the garlic with it. Put that to saute and the potato. I peel the potato. You can keep them in water but when you take them out and slide them don't put them back in water. If you do this, a lot of Even if they discolor a So what I have here is my flavoring agent and my flavoring agent, you know, in that piece that you don't want to put it all over the place because you I have dry thyme, those beautiful bay leaf and I could put even a clove it's not really necessary. Oh you know what goes well you know, that we can put in I have the black peppercorn there. Now this will give me a and it very easy to retrieve. So here it goes, put it this way. I attach it with a little string. And you know we do that very often. Actually you know there you can even buy those but as you can see not really, not worth spending a lot that you can very easily do yourself. So here we saute that for a minute or so and then we put our potato. Potato goes in it. We're going to put a little You know in Alsace, in the they do the whole gratin with white wine. But here mostly we put dash of salt because which is totally unsalted. I have stock here, a very lean stock. You can see that that stock is very lean. A chicken stock or And this, We wanna bring it to a boil. It is basically boiling now, for the simple reason and that will go into a gratin dish. Actually you know if you cover this and cook it like that here The advantage of putting the juice will evaporate in the oven and concentrate the taste so then that's one of the reason why we are doing it this way. So here we have our in it and this right in it And this right in the center for flavor. And this has to go now into the oven and that will take, you know, like an hour. You know it takes a while in the oven for all of that juice to evaporate and the gratin be quite, So we put that in the oven here. Actually I put it on the small shelf. And now our Gratin is in the oven. We have the lamb in the Now we have to move to the first course and the first course we And large Scallop. The big, the big sea scallop which I love. I have here. And we are going to do that with scallion and with a little sauce. So the first thing that I'm going to do is start cooking those scallion. Scallion are very available very inexpensive and You know all those green vegetables. What you do just cut the lower part of it and a bit of the top if you feel. That they are sometimes that may be a bit strong. This, this and then cut the end of it. That's about it. You can even keep that for stock, You know those pieces. This way. When you're nouveau, this is great to eat So I am putting those to You see what I have in there I have a touch of water, that And that will cook in a few minute here. Covered, you know, two And while this is cooking we And look at those scallop, And a couple of them I didn't clean here. You can see that on those scallop there is that I remove here, here and there. So we serve like three scallop per person and it is quite a lot because So those scallop, you of salt and pepper on top and a little bit of olive oil. We're going to do that just We want to do that in a large skill att and that You know it's a big cast iron skillet. It's like doing it on the Kind of quite good for you. It's very, very low in and you can also cut them and So here the scallop are cooking like a couple of minutes on each side. During that time we of a special sauce with it, you know. Done with a strong dejon mustard, a bit of red wine vinegar. Again cracked pepper. Here we have cracked and a little bit of olive You just want to stir it, you know. You don't care whether It's fine and you don't need much. You need about a tablespoon Next thing I should as you can see which brown nicely now See there basically no fat in this but your skillet has to You can use the grill. Your grill would be And now let's check if Yes, you see those scallion are beautiful. Let's see if they are tender. Yeah it could cook maybe one more minute but they are perfectly fine. I'm gonna drain them on top of this. And you know what I can do of that liquid from the scallion, you know I basically nothing and extend my vinegarette Which is a nice way of making it lighter. So we have it here, the We're going to present this is quite hot, is to bring this around you know like a nest you You have about three would be fine here. The beautiful kind of nest. We can pick up a couple of our, as I say three you know because look at the size of those scallop which are beautiful. And finally a little that you can put. I would put the sauce mostly on the other side here. Look at that. Beautiful. And for a bit of fanciness, if you want a bit of paprika that you can, you know, put on just for color. And this is the first course for today. The best way to beat egg is in a copper bowl. Or stainless is fine too, You have to clean it however because you know you the Verdigris and all that, which can be quite dangerous. So we clean it up with salt See there is a physical and the egg white and that will acidify the egg white and make it form a lot. And as you can see here, that very potent, you know. So in the kitchen we Vinegar, actually salt, I'm because I don't have time, So we used to do vinegar, to make a paste, you know. Inexpensive copper polish. And now it's nice and very shiny and I will have the type As I say, again, if you don't have it, egg white will be very well So we are doing an Apricot Souffle. Egg white only. We are doing that only with egg white. No egg yolk. I have little bit of fig A bit of apricot jam, a dash Those dry apricot here I cook them with a little bit of water and this is what we are going to use. Now we put that juice and all directly into the food processor, with the jam, apricot jam. And that we're going A very intense puree, you know. We can of course do that But the dry one I would you know the fresh apricot with that because the dry one would you know, strong, very intense deep flavor you know concentrated taste and it's good. I love apricot. One of my best fruit in summer they are the best. Okay, so we have our Clean up as best as you can. You don't want to lose anything. I need this, that I don't need anymore. Now what I want to do diced up fig and you or put them in any way you want. You know this is the way I did. And our egg white. I have five egg white here and we are going to beat what we call a balloon whisk. And what you do first, you go very fast. And you go fast to break the white. You don't break the white. What happened is that like a wet towel. Then I go slowly, not I lift it up, let it fall on itself. And by with the technique much faster than an electric mixer. You see that and you try so that you don't get too tired. You get tired a little bit with one hand, you change with the other hand and this should be nice Done this way you know it's going not going to take you minute and a half to beat egg white. And you get the best volume this way also. See those egg white are They are ready when they hold the peak. Kind of like this you see. At that one I put a little bit of sugar that will stabilize the egg white and we tighten the white. We call that tightening the white. Then we put some of it about with the whisk and you What is the reason for that? Cause often the mixture is too thick and if you try to fold them Yeah. So the best way is to put which will lighten the whole mixture and now it will fold very easily and notice the way that I'm folding here, I'm folding with the right hand, I'm not moving the right hand. The same motion, the left This is what we do here. Now we have the Souffle This is the six cup like Souffle mold and then just fill up the mold here. That's good. And we want to decorate I may have to do that on the side here. You spread it out with a Then after, with the of a design like this, I If you design, you get some leftover here, you put in the center of it Then with your thumb, you make so that it has a neat and this is it. Souffle you know you can do it 45 minutes to an hour before you put it in the oven. But the best is really to put it in the oven just when you're ready. So here it is in the I'm going going to remove which I have here. Remember those potato You would want to remove and maybe put a little And now what we want to do And remember the lamb I put in the oven it brown here on this side. I wanna turn it on the other And this is the time of that beautiful mixture on top here. You can spread that out all over nicely. And that goes back in the I have one which is ready right here. As you can see it has pick So we're going to carve it on top of this. Put it there or I could put it directly, It's hot, on top of my serving platter. I don't even need a carving You know it should be nice and pink. Well the idea is to hold it You know, you hold this and I think it has a beautiful color. I'm gonna serve you a with the potato. So again, you know, I of garlic in it, you And I like the end piece of it, the end piece is a bit more cooked. Then I love that piece And this I can serve You see I have this a or a bit of that crumb, you And the potato. I wanted to serve some This is a real country You know that you will get and this is our main course for the day. The souffle always make a dramatic finish to a to a meal, you know And we get that there is of suspense in the making Never know exactly the way So we put a bit of powdered You can do without. Directly serve it. And we always say that you you know the souffle doesn't wait for you. And here we have to the dining room, our souffle is really stunning. And with that of course Remember those very elegant scallop that we did large with That light sauce on top, and the leg of lamb, classic leg of lamb. You can leave it whole in the dining room so you can carve it in The gratin of potato with And the souffle. And with that, the classic cabernet sauvignon, a great wine from the I'm sure you're going to try that dinner or you should try one dish at the time. You will love it. Your friend are going to love it and your family will enjoy it. I had a great time cooking it for you. Happy cooking.