In the middle of the Ob River in Siberia lies Never officially named, it's known after But people who live in this desolate region a name you will never find on Google Maps. Over seventy years ago, dark things happened things so horrifying they were kept hidden Things which resulted in this nameless place An anonymous piece of marshland less than best part of human history in total obscurity. Then, in 1933, it was abruptly chosen to be prison where inmates would work the land for But instead of a pastoral utopia, the 6,000 trapped in a nightmare of starvation, with In today's video, we're traveling into the horrors of Joseph Stalin's worst Gulag. A Prelude to Terror Bylina's parents received their visitor. She walked with fragile, painful movements, Although she said she was forty, she looked For young Feofila, it was likely the first Feofila's family were Siberian natives, They lived in Nazino, a tiny hamlet on the the sort of place easily overlooked amid Russia's Recently, though, they'd started to notice There were the boats that kept pulling up The screams in the night. The gunshots. And now this. This strange young-old woman being carried They took the woman to a backroom. There, by the candlelight, they removed the What she saw next would haunt Feofila for "I saw that her calves had been cut off," "I asked and she said, 'They did that to and cooked them.' All the meat on her calves was cut away." The woman had come from the new Gulag in the atrocity Stalin's Soviet Union had perpetrated But the story of Nazino Island - sometimes or with that cold May night in 1933. It started nearly four years earlier, 3,000km dreams. In the winter of 1929, Joseph Stalin had set It was now five years since Vladimir Lenin was sent into exile; and twelve whole years Tsar. With a flick of his pen, Stalin was about history. He called it "Collectivization". Collectivization was the order that all peasants and go work on Soviet collective farms. This was Stalin's anemic carrot. The gigantic stick was Dekulakization, a euphemism Technically, Kulaks were wealthier peasants. In practice, though, Kulaks were any peasants And, boy, did plenty of people disagree with In Ukraine, peasants destroyed their tools, crops rather than letting them fall into Soviet So Stalin did what Stalin did best. He had everyone who defied him shot, and everyone By 1932, Collectivization had led to famine that even Stalin realized he couldn't just What the Soviet dictator needed was someone Someone who could devise a brand new method Luckily for Stalin - and very unluckily for that sort of man. Guilty Until Proven Innocent an idea that was almost brilliant in its cynicism. A future head of the NKVD, Yagoda is mostly line of people Stalin promoted to the top In 1933, though, he was part of the team overseeing tasked with making Stalin's decrees somehow So Yagoda hit upon an ingenious solution. The USSR needed to both set up collective Then why not condemn those Kulaks to work Yagoda's plan was to "resettle" 2 million make them build their own self-sustaining All these new farms would solve the Collectivization would provide the punishment part. Yagoda was so pleased with his idea that he agreed, sending out quotas of Kulaks for police It's at this point that everything descended In Stalin's police, failing to fulfil your quota. So you were extremely incentivized to find That meant if you were living in an urban failing the internal passport regime instead. A hated feature of Tsarist Russia, internal after they gained power. But Stalin had revived the system the previous Distributed only to those doing useful work, legal citizen. Fail to carry one, and you were automatically And, in the cities, there were always enough quotas. Kuzma Salnikov, for example, was a married Communist. Then one day, he happened to go to a market sealed off the building. He was deported from his home city without He never saw her or his two kids again. Awful as Salnikov's story is, it's just There was the 12-year old girl left on a station went to buy bread. When the mother returned, her child was gone, quota. There was the 103-year old man who went out Or the student who was snatched off his aunt's There was even a pregnant woman deported for it clutched in her hand the entire time. All across the USSR, hundreds of thousands As their families struggled to find out what captured onto trains bound for the wilds of Vagrants, common criminals, political prisoners, street all became part of an unwilling exodus The conditions were so bad that scores died They were the lucky ones. The survivors didn't know it, but they were The Island of Death it can be tempting to think of the Soviet repression. But that wasn't the case. In Siberia, officials weren't even informed way until the first trains appeared. When 25,000 people were unloaded in Tomsk like "well, what the hell do we do now?!" The trouble was that Yagoda's guys in Moscow fast, but then let all the logistics get bogged In crude terms, this is a little bit like in place for a massive party in the Bahamas, or tents. Only, in this analogy, the Bahamas are a snowbound unbuilt prison compounds, and everyone is will result in Stalin holding a rival one-man officials." By May, 1933, Tomsk was housing nearly 90,000 for caring for them. So officials finally decided someone else Loading the first 5,000 exiles and 50 guards the Ob River, bound for the new island settlement It was not a pleasant ride. Nazino was roughly 800km away. 800km along a river still choked with ice, By the time the barges reached what would had already died from exposure. The survivors meanwhile stepped into a nightmare. The island was a low-lying swampland some There was no shelter, just trees the settlers But the officials in Tomsk had forgotten to And now here they were, standing on a blanket lumber to build shelter. Left with no choice, the prisoners slept out By the time May 19, 1933 dawned, another 295 And so began a fight for survival that would Games. Almost all the unlucky souls sent to Cannibal without their passports. They had none of the agricultural skills real skills. And this would soon become a very serious On the barges, the prisoners had been given But now the guards could no longer be bothered bread. Instead, they simply handed each prisoner than even prisoners in Auschwitz or Cambodia's Already desperate, many of the settlers mixed to an outbreak of dysentery. It was only the second day, and already Cannibal If all this is a little much for you, best From here on in, things are only gonna get The Theater of Cruelty - the prisoners had already reached new depths The freezing rains were killing people nightly, were lying too close to them and burning to On top of that, the guards hadn't returned grams everyone received on the first day. At this stage, the prisoners were still just to organize in protest. They started a riot. They made enough noise that the guards eventually bank to see what was up. When the prisoners said they wanted food, But not on a person by person basis. Instead, all surviving prisoners would have Each brigade would have a leader, and that the flour quota. It was at this point that any solidarity on Among the settlers were a minority of violent Seeing the key to their survival, they presented The guards just shrugged and gave them the And so began the awful process of starving on the island. You may be wondering why people didn't try Why they didn't brave the river and make The answer is that they did. Remember Kuzma Salnikov, the Communist miner Well, in the early days, when he still had icy water to the opposite bank and escape Miraculously, he eventually found a collective But Salnikov was an exception. Most prisoners who braved the harsh waters Those that made it to the bank were shot at Those who escaped, the well-fed guards then Which brings us neatly to the cruelty of Cannibal From the safety of their barges, they got fun. Other times, they would sail over, take a the way the prisoners fought one another for Some of them would trade these hunks of bread Yet others would order the criminal elements exchange for cigarettes. Cannibal Island would've been a legendary prisoners and sailed away. By staying, they transformed a disaster into On May 25 - one week after the barges landed Examining the corpses of five prisoners, he the settlers. When he relayed the message to officials back and obviously "cannibals by habit." Not two days later, another barge arrived, the island. Did these guys come bearing any extra food? Ha. What do you think? Death in Siberia left their humanity far behind. The stronger prisoners had split into gangs those weaker then themselves. Murder for food had become commonplace. And still it wasn't enough. As a cold June dawned in remotest Siberia, they could. With all these bodies lying around, they simply From this point on, things get so gruesome in us reporting them with our usual mix of Much better to just let those who were there One convict was later questioned by authorities His answer survives in the records: He said. "Just like shashlik. We made skewers from willow branches, cut skewers, and roasted it over the campfire.&quot; &quot;I picked those who were not quite living, It was obvious that they were about to go So it was easier for them that way. Now. Quickly. Without suffering for another two or three But the horrors of Cannibal Island didn't the nearly-dead. The Donner Party, this was not. This was madness on a deranged scale, like A 13-year old girl from the local Ostyak population during the June chaos. She later recalled seeing a female prisoner been sleeping with for food, a man called In her words: Tied her to a poplar tree, cut off her breasts, everything.... They were hungry.... they had to eat. When Kostia came back, she was still alive. He tried to save her, but she had lost too It was not long after this that Feofila Bylina's 40-year old woman who looked like she was Not long after that they removed those rags food. It seems that the combined effects of extreme the lack of oversight created something very An place where people didn't just eat other from torturing them beforehand. Luckily, the suffering was now so bad that In mid-June, a month after the first barges the settlement. The surviving prisoners were evacuated to to Tomsk, and Cannibal Island was abandoned. In total, over 6,700 resettlers had spent month. Fewer than 2,200 of them survived. The remaining four and a half thousand had for food. By August, the summer grasses had grown so still rotting there. Only locals like Feofila Bylina had any knowledge island. But the story of Cannibal Island isn't quite We still have to deal with the aftermath. Stories that Can't be Told is due to one man. Vasily Velichko was a Communist instructor that stretched along the Ob above Tomsk. In July, 1933, he began to hear the first the Nazino farm. The whispers of cannibalism, of unparalleled Without mentioning it to his superiors, he It was a hard trek, and Velichko didn't At first, nothing looked out of place. There were tall summer grasses, sparse trees, their business. It was only when Velichko stepped onto the the half-eaten bodies lying out of sight. Over the next few weeks, Velichko interviewed would speak to him. Slowly, he began to build up a picture of Of the catastrophe Soviet neglect and bad That fall, Velichko submitted an 11 page report Care to guess what happened next? That's right! Velichko was fired from his job and kicked the black hole of the state archives. But not before a handful of officials with set certain things in motion intended to make again. A moratorium was placed on the resettlement back for dissidents. In Tomsk, the 50 guards who'd overseen this memberships revoked and were jailed. While we'd love to tell you they wound up sad truth is that they nearly all served a being released. As for Velichko's report, it stayed "lost" Soviet Union. It wasn't uncovered until 1994, and only at the time had started agitating for a memorial But, grim as the history of Cannibal Island one example in a decade of Soviet terror. At the same time that the starving prisoners vast famine was sweeping Ukraine and Kazakhstan. In Ukraine - the most fertile republic in quotas so high that even where food was grown farms. In the ensuing disaster, somewhere between death. As on the Ob River, there were tales of cannibalism. Of families forced to kill their weakest child Of children who ate their own parents after And this was just the beginning. After the horrors of famine, Collectivization, got underway. Three quarters of a million denounced and Then came the deportations of the Tartars, of the Gulag system, the doctors' purge endless. Cannibal Island may be gruesome, but it's chapter in two decades of suffering unleashed A suffering still not dealt with properly We can find stories like this gruesome, even We can choose to look away, as many did. But the fact remains that disasters like this we'd like to admit. It may just be an anonymous stretch of swampland But Cannibal Island should be a place that - a monument to a very human kind inhumanity.