If you ask a particle physicist like me what be very big or very small. (Or maybe- maybe about lunch.) But most of the time, we like to think of the way it is and does it have to be that This leads us to think about the tiny subatomic The reason we do that is simple. If you want to understand the universe, one it's made of and the rules that hold it together. Once that's done, you can answer questions a diffuse gas that permeates the cosmos. There are criticisms to this sort of reductionist hard to predict phenomena like turbulence particle physics; and there is some merit Still, all phenomena must not only conform originate in those subatomic rules. So it's at least important to have an understanding Our current understanding of these tiny bits of particles, called quarks and leptons. Quarks are found in the nucleus of atoms, In addition, there are four forces, which between the quarks and leptons. The name we have for this model is called if you want to know more about it, I made The problem is that if we want to get at the what we currently know doesn't seem to completely We have six types of quarks, three charged carrying particles. Plus, when you include the mysterious world called a graviton, the situation is a, is Some have charge; some don't. Some particles feel some forces, but not others. It's hard to imagine that the ultimate building in this complexity. It seems there must be something simpler underlying As we dive into the world of the super small, neutrons and electrons. Digging deeper, we find quarks and leptons. So could there be another layer? Or two? Or three? Well, sure. Even though they haven't been found and, to have a name for the layer below quarks and These smaller particles are called preons. But there is no reason there couldn't be pre-preons In short, there could be a long line of undiscovered smallest particle of all. This seemingly endless ladder of particles One very interesting idea is that when we find a particle, but rather an ultra-tiny So how does that work? How can a string explain the variety of subatomic Essentially, scientists assign the various to be the various known particles. You can get a sense of this by seeing what If you vibrate a string slowly, you get a If the vibration is increased, you get two Increase the vibration more and you get three In the superstring model, each vibration pattern This is really cool because it means that kind of string. The complexity of vibrations is even more Take some salt; put it on a metal plate and arise. In this example, the white lines are where moving. Where you see the metal of the plate, it's While two-dimensional vibrations are already vibrate in way more dimensions' as in like Yes, imagining more dimensions is hard to needs to work. The dimensions we're talking about here are with. You can get your head around smaller dimensions The hula hoop can move in the familiar x, down and forward and backward. But you'll notice that the hoop has a little If you want to explain the location of the the hoop's center in x, y and z and then state side, top and so on. Now imagine that the hula hoop is small, so The location of the hoop still needs three the question of where the paper is. To answer that question, you need four dimensions. Now I know that some of you will say that also moving in the ordinary 3 dimensions. And you're right. Just remember, I'm using an analogy to describe The analogy is imperfect. But I hope it conveys the right idea. So in superstrings, you need the three spatial of time. That makes four. But you also need seven small extra dimensions, Pretty mind blowing, to be sure. But if you just remember a small string vibrating what the theory predicts. If you want to understand at a deeper level, A very important question should be on your Are superstrings real? Should I believe in them? The answer is clear and unequivocal. Superstrings might be real, but you absolutely They are currently a very cool mathematical evidence to support them. The reason is simple. The extra dimensions of superstring theory can access using our particle accelerators. Physicists imagine that the size of strings 10 to the minus 35 meters. That's far smaller compared to a proton than There is no accelerator built or even imagined So why do scientists study this idea that Well, first the idea is just plain cool; but that finally gives us a simple and fundamental world we actually live in. When people ask me if I believe in superstrings, But I'd like to. The idea is intriguing and compelling and about the idea. Maybe they will eventually come up with a Then we'll know if superstrings are a brilliant work.