hello everyone, my name is Olga and today with tourists in Turkey. the most popular scams scams with tour guides, and the most popular and there are so many scams, you must be thinking: Turkey, is it even safe to come here? and my for travelers. just use common sense and you I was living here since 2017, alone by myself, and foreigners, and we think that it is quite safe to the world, and Turkey is no exception, is a taxi away when you come into a country. at the airport you arrive at the airport, never ever agree to an official taxi, airport taxi. you will see away you see a big sign for it. you walk just for the official taxis. there will usually be a you tell him your address, he points you to a official taxi always goes by the meter. also in transport option. it's either a comfortable or for example in Antalya there is a tram that in 2022 is only 8 Turkish Lira. so that's the and I can recommend it. the trams themselves are so you don't have to wait for a very long time in Antalya here, they are quite reliable for us. especially in the touristy areas, I used to live there are ways when a taxi driver can scam you. official taxi. when you look at the side of it, side on the door there will always be a license always ask to go by the meter. and if the driver another taxi that will go by the meter. with the the driver might tell you one price, and at the he misheard. you and he thought that it will be be aware of how much money you are giving to him. and he will not give you a change. or he will say the change that you're actually getting. because 50 Turkish Lira from a driver. and she noticed to argue about it. and overall about the taxis, I in big city like Istanbul, for example, because and it might take you hours to get from one place big cities especially, public transport system is on buses, and that's a good way to get around the about the scam that can happen in restaurants. but I did read stories about it in expat facebook the prices in the restaurants are changing change even every two weeks. in the expat group to people when they went to a restaurant in the they had their meals, and then the actual bill so they asked for the menu to be brought again. they saw in the first menu. the manager explained and because the inflation now is so high, the beginning. but that was simply not true. and the the tripled prices were not reasonable at all. a dinner in a very touristy area, it might be they are taken away. so you know what kind the prices change, you just don't agree to it in the beginning. and in the restaurant that I'm and their prices are very reasonable. the food was what about the scams that happen in bars? in my previous video, but this time I will share like this. if you are a tourist, usually it's one or just to have a drink at the bar. and it happens Taksim square. and in that bar you are approached a beer or something like that. and they speak switch to English and pretend that they thought get your guard down, so you would think that they think you are also Turkish like them. so to go to a different place, where the music is or something like that. and because you feel you agree to it. and then you go to that other they join you, and everyone is ordering drinks. disappear, he goes to the toilet or for a and you might think that you will just refuse to up with a problem with the security. and it's essentially you are made to pay for your drink, and the bill can be quite high. it doesn't mean or that you cannot make friends when you go out. as a foreigner, is that I see that Turkish people they usually go out in a group, and the group will group. and it's just not very likely that a lonely he just wants to chat with someone. normally he not just chat up a stranger. and even if somehow men or women, they will most likely introduce you another recommendation I would give to tourists scams happen. and if you are noticeably drunk, Shoe shiner scam. So this scam is quite infamous. in touristy areas like Taksim and Istiklal street. is walking in front of you. And then suddenly he out of the kindness of your heart you are picking he wants to shine your shoes. And you just Then he does his job and asks a lot of money for of course you were not expecting this. So you saying that he has grandchildren, to make you pity him and pay that money. So when somebody approaches you just ignore. you just make like you don't notice tour guide scam. so this particular scam we just got into the Old City, we were looking immediately approached by a friendly guy, who &quot;oh, I know some place where there is you&quot;. and he essentially started walking. and we we don't want to see anything from you&quot;. so we as time goes on it becomes harder and harder because we do understand that he is a guide, and he doesn't say anything about it right away, it refuse him. and at the end after about 10 to 15 us historical facts, he does ask for money but for just pushing us into it, that feels really unfair a scam that I witnessed myself a couple of times. tourist area between Blue Mosque and Hagia Sofia. from Blue Mosque to Hagia Sofia and on the way &quot;the mosque is closed&quot;. which is of course to get me talking and maybe then take me to his kinds of scams. so in that restaurant or in that he can profit from it. so best advice, if you are just don't pay any attention to them. whatever if they want to sell you something or just just pretend you don't hear them. just walk on or something. just try to not even make an quite persistent, if you keep walking, if you go. and it doesn't mean that you can't make out there to get you. or that everyone who offers first ever trip to Istanbul, next to the airport I and get on the bus to the city. and the machine banknotes at that moment. so the man next to me, into the machine, gave me the card and just so with that I'm saying that there are good people than bad. but as a rule, if you are in you are approached by someone, just ignore that I would say: don't be afraid to travel to Turkey. a fraction of a price that you would pay in breathtaking views and gorgeous mountains. so and if you start searching there will be a list