- [Crowd] Kamala, Kamala! - Oh, you guys are at the wrong rally. I think you meant to go to the - If you had to be stuck in an elevator with either President Trump, Mike Pence, or Jeff Sessions, who would it be? - Does one of us have to come out alive? (audience laughing) - Who is Kamala Harris? What does she believe, and what does her story teach us about how she might govern - [News Anchor] She's the first woman ever to be the city's top prosecutor. - [News Anchor] Kamala is brat. - Kamala, you are fired! - Last week we did Trump, this week it's Kamala, so let me show you the - Should be asking, are we smart on Trump? We did it, Joe. I'm speaking. If somebody breaks into my We'll be prosecuting. My mother had another Never let anyone tell you who you are. You show them who you are. (audience applauding) - Harris was born in 1964 Her father had come to to get his PhD in economics. Her mother immigrated to landing in Berkeley, as her father: education. Her parents were married and had two kids, Kamala and her younger sister, Maya. Growing up, Kamala and her family lived in a mostly Black Eventually her parents divorced in 1972 and Kamala and her by their single mother. And it sounds like, like many it was pretty tough. One thing we know for sure is that Kamala's mother on her as a child. - My mother was a Brown woman with an accent and it was mostly my mother who raised us. So my mother. My mother. That was my mother. - And her mother is the origin - I don't know what's wrong You think you just fell You exist in the context (indistinct). - Kamala's childhood was happening just at the time he civil rights Freedom, freedom - This fight wasn't theoretical for her. It was happening in - We grew up pretty much by adults who spent their about this thing called justice. - As an elementary school student, Kamala was a part of to desegregate schools by busing kids from to try to integrate these cities that had been so deeply divided by race. - There was a little girl in California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bused to school every day and that little girl was me. - Okay, so at this point you start to see some of these influences that go on to inform the rest of her life, her immigrant parents, especially her single the civil rights movement and the neighborhood that she grew up in. In middle school, Kamala's in Montreal as a cancer researcher. She talks about this as being but she was a teenager and she was not thrilled Friends at the time describe as bookish, bubbly, and to have blended in After graduating high school in 1982, she enrolled in Howard where she studied political During her time at college, she took on student leadership positions, participated on the debate team, and continued to show participating in protests on campus. While in DC, you also start to see her turn more towards politics. She spends both her summers interning at government institutions, places like the Federal Trade Commission or interning for a California senator. She worked at the National Archives. She was a tour guide at the US Bureau of Engraving and Printing. And in between all of this, she also took on summer jobs to make money. The most famous of which McDonald's land Which like during this election, people have been trying to that she didn't work at McDonald's, like it's some highly controversial thing. Anyway, the point here is happening in Harris's On one hand she's influenced by activism, she's critical of government. She's protesting it, while also working within that she was often critiquing as unfair. This is a major theme within her life. One you can see in this to Howard graduates in 2017. - You can march for Black and you can ensure law by serving as a prosecutor Somebody is going to make the decision, so why not let it be you? - Okay, so it's the mid '80s and Harris returns to This is where we start Like one summer she was an intern at the Alameda County and she gets her first real as a public prosecutor can be. - I was working on a case and I realized that among those arrested was but it was late on a Friday afternoon. The case would not get I pleaded for the judge to come back. I would not leave until And when that happened this woman got to go home to her children. That woman taught me that in front of you that's wrong, you can just go ahead and - Okay, so we're now getting to the point that got me really curious about Harris. We have this list of initial influences that have informed her life, but now we get to the more visible part. What she did when she during her career, her they paint a picture and - Most important things don't come easy, so it's not gonna be a cakewalk. There's a lot of work to do. - Okay, but before we dive in, let's define this word prosecutor, which is a word that when you talk about Kamala Harris. A public prosecutor is They're responsible for and the case against people or businesses accused And here in the United States, They're tough on crime, responsible for upholding America's habit of throwing millions in Okay, public prosecutor, big So after law school, Harris becomes a public first in Alameda County, and then for the city of San Francisco, and then eventually for the So now Kamala Harris, this activist turned kind takes on the role that is kind of the definition of tough on crime, working to convict criminals, advocating to lock them up and upholding the status - Serious and violent crime, lock 'em up. - But Harris says that she's a different She calls herself a huh? This strikes people as - Are you soft on crime Instead, I believe we should be asking, are we smart on crime? - Again, here in the United States, progressives tend to advocate for reform to our justice system. They say that the system is too harsh, locking up way too many people who are disproportionately often for nonviolent crimes That's one of many critiques. And as I mentioned, as the ones doing the locking up. So to get through this next section, let's put both of these words on a scale and as we look at her career, let's assess what she's done that represents the and what of her actions represent more of the traditional prosecutor side. I'm gonna go through the but then I will get to so don't forget that that's coming. - Early intervention for the violent criminals - First up, Harris says that means holding serious criminals to account while focusing on preventing She focuses on stopping the And to do this throughout her career, she focuses a lot on data. - Let's look at the issue within California beyond one criminal case and look at the crime problem. Nationally, 75%, 54% to less than 10%, from 40% to over 90%. 70% re-offend. - The context here is that that easily scares us. No matter your political leanings, every person wants to feel safe. So there's a lot of emotions driving how our justice system works, But Harris wanted to change this. She wanted to use the analysis of numbers to help inform systems of that were more equitable, more rational, and to see in the data committing crimes in the first place? She's building public databases. - Let's focus on what we before it occurs. - Publishing statistics on crimes. - Elementary school students of 180 day school year. - Arrest data. - I was told prosecutors don't I was told prosecutors should not focus on the needs of children. - A public database for police practices. - Did an analysis of who 94% of them were high school dropouts. Perhaps untraditional for but I did. I got the answer. - Oh, and she took this like pretty far and it got when she came out and said that the state should be prosecuting parents with a crime if their kids miss too much school. And in a few cases she actually did that. - So I decided I was gonna start prosecuting parents for truancy. Well, this was a little controversial in San Francisco. (laughing) And frankly my staff went bananas. They were very concerned. - Okay, a few more things of the scale here and then we'll She fought against She fought big banks and won convictions after the 2008 housing crisis. - We have delivered to California $18 billion in relief for California's homeowners. - [Johnny] She fought and of a predatory for-profit university. - We are talking about Corinthian colleges taking advantage of Californians who simply aspire to - And perhaps her most as Attorney General is the moment where she told the clerk of Los Angeles to begin issuing marriage back during when this was a big debate around Proposition 8 or the - This is Kamala Harris, you must start marriages immediately. - Okay, but hold your horses. There's another side to this story. So far I've made Harris look like this reform-minded as a prosecutor. But let's look at the - I took on perpetrators of all kinds. Lock 'em up. - [News Anchor] Aggressively as San Francisco's first - First the death penalty. In 2014, as Attorney General, in a seemingly reversal as district attorney, she actually fought to in California by appealing a ruling that would've effectively In another case, the and said that California's that it violated the constitution as cruel and unusual punishment. And yet her office supported against releasing prisoners. Over the years, she resisted or fought against some Her office prosecuted almost 2,000 people in cannabis-related offenses, as well as defending the cash bail, which critics see as unfairly punishing lower income defendants. Okay, I know this is a lot of like, we are in the weeds of the justice system and like with the Trump video, I was able to be like in the weeds on like branded vodka and But Kamala's story is actually this. It's like she has been in the weeds on criminal justice policy and her critics and her fans debate as to how progressive or hawkish And so that is how we I know it's not as fun as watching Donald Trump but this is her career. - [Announcer] She's California's most innovative district attorney. - After going through you can see why some liberals called BS on her whole idea of being saying that her career of maintaining a tough-on-crime policy while sprinkling in some No matter how you judge all of this, what's clear is that Harris continues to mind that balance that where she's clearly has and ideals, but she also is pragmatic and works within the is where she can make change, which means upholding the status quo. But what this looks like, especially now that she's under the no one really knows where she stands, because there's seemingly contradictory or inconsistent behavior here. I'll share my read on that in just a sec. But first, let's see what happens next. - I am excited to stand before you as a proud California candidate for the United States Senate. - The election has been exhausting, because of the news cycle. I feel like every day that I should be following, but they're coming from all that all have different biases. Luckily there is a solution for that, and that is the sponsor of Ground News aggregates news stories from around the world into one place. It is a website and an through the noise when because it allows me to see the bias of this different coverage. What articles lean right, the factuality rating, how reliable it is, and who owns these different news outlets which affects the coverage. This is such an important tool during this time in our history and how the media is so polarized. Right now, they have this which helps you be alert to political spin and sensationalism. You can see information in I love this blind spot feature they have that allows you to see stories that you wouldn't naturally click. Helps you round out your reading. Right now, Ground News is giving 50% off to anyone who signs up using my link. You can click over to this issues tab to find out what's trending each week from foreign policy to and get coverage on these topics. Ultimately, Ground News is a tool that helps me be a more So to get this massive discount, just use the link in my description, it is Ground.News/JohnnyHarris, or just scan the QR code here on screen. You can sign up for the vantage plan which has all of these and hopefully it can become a more critical thinker about today's crazy news cycle. Thank you Ground News for And with that, let's get back In 2016, Harris won the election to become California's next senator. The backdrop of her victory was a country, specifically the progressive communities, shook by the election of Donald Trump. - Do we retreat or do we fight? I say we fight. I intend to fight. - Now Harris is a prosecutor, a professional legal fighter, and over the next few years to grill Trump cabinet as they came before the Senate. - Can you think of any laws that give the government the power to make decisions about the male body? Has the president or anyone asked or suggested that you Yes or no, please sir. Perhaps they've suggested, - I don't know, I wouldn't say suggest. - And then two years later. - I stand before you today to announce my candidacy for President of the United States. (audience cheering) - During this campaign, like everyone in a democratic campaign, she swung far to the left, saying that she espoused pretty something that has come back to bite her basically every week during this election. But she didn't gain traction and she soon pulled out of the race. - I'm suspending our campaign today. - [Johnny] But soon she got a call from the Democratic - You ready to go to work? - [Kamala] Oh my God, I'm - And as the vice presidential nominee, during the debates, especially, her experience as a prosecutor continue to define her reputation. - [Mike Pence] She said he's - Mr. Vice President, I'm speaking. I'm speaking. - [Johnny] Biden and Harris - We did it, we did it, Joe. But while I may be the I will not be the last. - Okay, now listen, I'm When I started reporting this story, I kind of thought that this next part was gonna be the juiciest part. Like what does she do And it ended up being the least helpful in understanding Kamala Harris. I've wrestled with this and concluded that I can't exactly from her four years as vice president, partly because it was Joe and the vice president and partly because of the which was the duty of of migration from Central America to the US's southern border. Like good luck. Like the mandate was go use systemic corruption, and gang violence in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, so that people stopped trying to come to the United States. I've reported a lot on and specifically in Central America. And I can tell you that one vice president has no chance of making especially in just a couple of years. - Want to be clear, to folks in this region who are thinking about to the United States/Mexico border. Do not come, do not come. - Now you can read her five pillar plan, but when I read it, it just feels kind of bland and familiar. Like the many reports about how the US can somehow in other countries. Stuff like this does not work. Or if it does, it does not work quickly. And to add to all of this, the American people seem to misunderstand what her task actually was. And this includes me and but I like a lot of people thought that Kamala Harris was in like this border situation. Like she was supposed to fix what we do with people coming to the border. And all I'm seeing on TV is record numbers of migrants arriving to the border, huge numbers of and not just from Central America but from tons of countries. Who was to blame for this Many looked at the vice president, because wasn't she the border No, she wasn't. But we all thought she was. And it didn't help that in one of her first media appearances, she kind of waffled some pretty - This whole thing about the border, we've been to the border, - You haven't been to the border. - And I haven't been to Europe. - Now to be fair and that when you look at migration to the US border especially if you look at people coming from the three countries was tasked with fixing. And if I were Kamala Harris, shouting it from the rooftops as a huge success of her big role. And while I think her with the leaders and to Central America to like make jobs and fix these root problems were earnest and well-intentioned. I just truly don't think to evaluate her based A vice president has no chance of fixing these deeply in other countries in just a few years. Okay, I've made that point. Let's move on. - Look, I'm not a young guy. With the Covid, excuse me, with- - Joe Biden is extraordinarily strong. - Bad debate nights - President Biden has decided to step out of the race for the White House. - [News Person] He is and endorsement for Kamala Harris. - I accept your nomination to be the president of the - So here we are kind of in modern day. We all know what happens next. Vice President Kamala becoming the presidential as Joe Biden comes to grips and declining mental that he would lose and Donald Trump would - I really don't know what he said at the end of this sentence. I don't think he knows - So Harris is now in the spotlight, and voters are wondering how What does her past, both tell us about how she'll govern? And the answer to that is pretty unclear. Partly because over the Harris has shifted and morphed her views based on the system and the That's what we've seen as we've talked about it here briefly. She doesn't have a record that shows some absolute which has been perhaps That Kamala's record and yet her character Her lived experience is as well. So after doing this research on her life, I do believe her when she says- - Is my values have not changed. - And this election is weird, they're getting weirder every time, but this one's super weird. She's running against a showman, a professional marketer who campaigns on his his personality, not his policy proposals. Kamala Harris was born who came to the United States looking for education and opportunity. And through hard work and endurance, she pushed her way up through the ranks to where she is today, all without serious scandals The only thing we could dig up on her is that she dated the and that may or may not have or a position on some But this was like a There was no cheating, So regardless of what you her stance on crime, I do think it is still legitimate to consider this personal character, especially when we're thinking about the most powerful the leader of the country. Because leaders lead with their personal experience as a guide. And this woman has lived a to a lot of everyday Americans. Something that seems to be in short supply among leaders these days. So I don't know how if she becomes president, but from looking at her record, I do feel fairly convinced of ethics and morals and values, and I think that is important to consider. So if you are a voting age let me tell you one thing for certain: you are likely to not vote. In this country, only half of who are eligible to vote actually turn up. So our democracy is totally distorted, because not everyone's voice is counted. I'll put a link here and find your place to vote. And with that, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hey folks, for those still here, I just finished recording this video and I just recorded the and I'm struck with That could be a reflection like obviously it came down but it's also a reflection that they've lived. Donald Trump's life is so and kind of tantalizing all of his products and Kamala's life is way more boring, because she just kind as a public prosecutor And it just, it's very stark to me how these videos are both because of the way but also visually. So my hope this was useful trying to understand Kamala Harris and are maybe deciding I hope that even in spite of and some of my perspectives, that doesn't change the fact that you need to make up your mind and decide and go with your gut and do what you feel. And the most important that you'd make it known. For those who don't know, all the music that we make for our videos is custom made by our composer, Tom Fox. He publishes all that music called Chromatic and he also You can listen to the whole catalog and reach out to license. All of that is in the description. Should check out Search Party, which is our other about geopolitics and sports. If you like this channel, and if you're not you should be. Okay, that's all. Have a good rest of your day, bye-bye. (music ending)