Einstein's theory of special relativity Judging from the views and comments that I've lot more of them. So I've decided to do something different. What I'm going to do is make a series of more coherent narrative. This one will be the first of the series, That might seem a little weird, but, well, So in this video, I thought I'd start, like I'm going to tell you the central meaning I will end with the two core equations. Now I don't intend to derive those equations I'll point out the important features and the basic method of how the derivation would So let's start by demystifying relativity. At its very center, it isn't about clocks It's not about some people aging faster Those are all consequences of the theory, Relativity is really about something much It's about how different people see the Relativity is not just an Einstein thing. So let's start with something way more familiar idea. Suppose you have two guys, one standing on driving at sixty miles per hour. Now assume that both the standing guy and both claim that they are the center of the This is the key point- both of them adamantly On the other hand, while they are both egomaniacs, how the other person views the world. And that is the heart of relativity. So let's flesh this out a bit. The car guy believes that he is stationary Not only that, he thinks that other positions For instance, the location a mile ahead of It doesn't move. Likewise, the position a mile behind him is So he can specify any location using the symbol to distinguish it from the standing guy. We can even hang some numbers on that. We'll say that the car guy is at location That means that he is at the center of his was a raging egomaniac. Now the location a mile ahead of him is simply location behind him is x sub car equals minus So this establishes the world from the viewpoint How does the standing guy see the same things? Well the standing guy is also an egomaniac But he wants to know the location of the car guy is changing. So the standing guy says that his location And that means when the car passes his position, since they both think their location is x at the same time. We'll get back to time later. Okay, so the standing guy thinks that the an hour is plus 30 miles away and after an In fact, we can write a simple equation for location and it is simply his velocity times Now that's for the car guy's location, If the car guy picks a location that is stationary of him, then the standing guy also sees that At the moment the car passes the standing plus one mile. After half an hour, that location is at plus After an hour, that location is at plus 61 We can thus make a general equation that tells viewpoints. If the car guy picks any location that is location x sub car, the standing guy will can be written as x sub standing equals x Now this equation is called a Galilean transform, His heyday was like in 1600 or so, so this In general, we don't want equations that a car and a standing person. So, textbooks simply call the two points of and the unprimed frame. So I am adding here the equation like you'll For us, the primed frame is the point of view is the point of view of the car guy. But the idea works for any two frames that I'll give you a second to take that in. Okay, so that's a core point. Now we have to talk about time. In our intuitive and familiar world, we say guy, or primed frame and unprimed frame- experience So we can write that here. t sub standing equals t sub car or, equivalently, By the way, you can do the same exercise starting He can pick positions and then we can ask I leave that to you to think through. But if you do that, remember from the point moving backwards at sixty miles per hour. This means that his velocity is negative, It's probably worth playing with these ideas Alright- so that's Galilean relativity and This relativity just tells two pig-headed locations and time. How is Einstein's special theory of relativity I'm not going to show you a derivation of similar in a different video. But I am going to tell you the two core assumptions show you them. The first core assumption is that the laws what we call observers in relativity lingo. That also means that both of them can say In fact, both of them has to insist that they Note that this is true for both Galilean and The thing that is unique to Einstein is that all observers. This flies in the face of common sense. After all, if you have two cars moving in the highway, their closing speed is 120 miles But that's not how it is for light. Everybody sees the same speed. If you take these two assumptions, you can Actually, they were originally derived by They are named Lorentz Transforms after Hendrik But it was Einstein who embraced them in a Like I said before, I am not going to derive There are plenty of places you can look them And if you want to see the most important is what we call the Lorentz factor that gives It's also on the Fermilab YouTube channel. So let's talk about Einstein's relativistic Suppose there are two women in empty space at some velocity v. Call them just the primed In my example, there are no external reference is moving or the other is. So they both say that they aren't moving. This is the raging egomaniac thing again. Now assuming that they use the time where both their time and location, you can transform equations. If we start with the unprimed woman and she with respect to her and call them t and x, for the primed person and those are embodied For maximum clarity, let's explicitly go For position, we have x prime equals gamma the elapsed time seen by the unprimed woman For time, we have t prime equals gamma times by c squared- and, of course, c is the speed Gamma is called the Lorentz factor and is quantity v squared over c squared. And I show where that factor comes from in You'll notice how the position equation but the time one is very different. Now I'll use these equations to show you to emphasize some things before we wrap it These are the core two equations of relativity. Everything else derives from them. And it's super important to remember exactly you how to convert from the point of view person. That's it. It's just like the car we talked about, the car changed as the guy drove, while the the standing guy was moving away from the That's it- that's all that's going on So this video has gotten a little long, but In the next video, I'll guide you on how Some of you are already asking about the twin we'll get there a couple of videos from In the meantime, let's just take a look we? Okay, so this relativity series is a departure If you like the idea of a series of connected Of course, you guys are all pros, so I don't We want the Fermilab YouTube channel to be And, as always, remember, that physics is