If you've watched the news that severe weather Storms are bringing even to places that were once considered relatively safe. As a result. The insurance industry toll, losing billions to natural catastrophes year after year after year, In 2023, 18 of the top 20 insurance providers in the U.S. had loss ratios over 100%, Meaning they're paying out than they're collecting And despite home insurance prices, 35% higher than they were in insurers are still hiking up But what's this mean already unstable Let's dig into America's We're talking about the price It's going up fast. from his homeowner's Two property insurance are leaving What impact will Helene To understand this crisis premiums are spiraling, we first need to understand how insurers make money. And that's all about law of large numbers. Let's look at a simple hypothetical. Okay. Let's say an insurer covers 60 houses and charges each $1 per year Of those 60 houses, catastrophic damage, costing the insurer $10 that year. Another five will experience each will cost $5 that year. and then another ten costing $1 each A total of $60 in premiums versus $45 in losses or a 75% loss ratio. $15 in profits. The insurer is making a bet based on averages. And according to the law the number of policies the outcome should be But today's weather, it's not average. It's getting worse faster than insurers can increase Looking at the same 60 houses, here's Two experience Eight experience and 15 need minor repairs. The cost to insurers 25% higher than the premiums Now, if this was a once in a lifetime catastrophic event, insurers could go to their even insurers have insurance. The problem more severe, This drives homeowners to make big claims more often to primary insurers to their reinsurers to cover these unexpected losses. Not wanting to lose money reinsurers either coverage or raise premiums on primary insurers who then do the same Now, at this point, okay, with really bad weather like California and Florida. But it's not going to happen My state is totally fine. Well, let's go to the weather to find out... Thanks, Chris. Home insurance across the country. With Louisiana down here Maine at 19. Michigan at 14. And Utah over here at 13%. Chris I can understand why premiums with all the hurricanes But what's going on other states? Glad you asked. Now, over here in Maine, scientists are expecting rise in the sea With each foot expected to increase costal storm frequency by up to 10 times. Now, Michigan, on the other these things called This is hail, hurricane And what about Utah? What's going on over there? Now, the risk of wildfire spreading to more One in six Americans live in an area at severe wildfire risk. With Utah being What's important about all of this is unprofitable every year, even with increasing premiums, resulting in the insolvency of some carriers downgrading of others. And although severe weather is the primary driver, another key factor that's compounding Homes are more expensive and the costs to repair them have gone up significantly. Just look at how the roof The roof? Set myself up for that one, With insurers and higher repair costs, it's they're increasingly asking for higher premiums While most states by overseeing rate are increasingly giving in to the demands of insurers. The risk is simply too costly to ignore. And when insurers they need, they get skittish. For example, you know, Jake, from State Farm? Like a good neighbor State Farm is there. Well, he's not always there. Sure. State Farm is the insurer in the United States, But back in 2009, State Farm left million policyholders hike of 47.1% was turned down Now, California is facing a similar challenge, requesting a 30% increase on its homeowners It's incredibly tricky. Regulators must strike homeowners from skyrocketing also creating an environment where insurers can profit. If rates are too high, then people don't pay If rates are too low, insurers take on losses and leave, or in some cases, public insurance programs are overrun. Insurance plays in accurately measuring When you have a government that subsidizes those costs, then you're encouraging overbuilding. and you don't want to mask the environmental risk We need to recognize that as a society and address it, not subsidize and suppress the rates. As a result, homeowners are in a lose-lose situation with fewer and fewer options. Let's look at each of these number one. Pay higher premiums. Seems reasonable to a point, everyone's mind is how much will premiums go up? Arizona has experienced one of the worst cases, insurance premiums since 2019. And it's still going increase of 7% in 2024. Not everyone can afford these drastic increases, especially lower and middle income families And so we have to go Problem is, there's a lot of friction that's making For instance, to find affordable insurance options, potential buyers, Now you're having that insurance early on. So people who thought a $550,000 house to afford a $450,000 house. And so we move to option number 3, reduce coverage. Taking on a higher deductible and making as few claims is what most insurance brokers are recommending for those trying to reduce the cost of their premium. But as traditional insurers people are being forced comprehensive insurance The lack of transparency, standardization is leaving many Americans underinsured. they've accepted certain the cost to rebuild Whether they know it or not, it's a dangerous place to be. The combination to find insurers in finding a proper and more homeowners Number four, forgo insurance. 6.2 million Americans do not have homeowner's If they lose their home the value of the home Those left with this option to middle income families people of color. It's a big risk, especially are the biggest source of wealth for most Americans. But the largest risk With these uninsured valued at $1.6 trillion. Let me say it again 1.6 trillion in unprotected market value. It's a lot of money, could ripple into the broader economy, upending banks, governments already unsteady But let's say that's and focus we asked at the beginning How are rising premiums going to impact America's already unsteady The short answer is more Americans out of homeownership. In a survey of 418 52% said they're considering decreasing due to higher insurance We have to rethink It's not just that We're probably down When you take into account climate resiliency that need to be made stock of homes. The point is, even if a family has a home they can lose it leaves And when developers income families struggle they pause investments which makes it even harder So exactly how can this crisis The best answer will be to stop building homes But Americans Although Vermont has insurance with relatively low risk, the population is decreasing. Meanwhile, Texas is seeing its population boom, of winters, hail, So we have to wonder why are Americans Home buying with all sorts of factors to consider to being close like how are the schools and what will my taxes be? It's true. More and more Americans climate change, but it's far from their top priority. This means the scale and destruction will continue to grow and become more costly, meaning that insurers but to continue So how else can we mitigate Homeowners on preventive maintenance. like to paint their house They don't like to do for the maintenance caulking the sealing. And the bigger at a community level. It's one thing to navigate away from your own home, if there was some community away from an entire community or to keep fire away. Other things, technologies have also helped reduce and losses. But what will make insurers while watching the Weather A reliable reinsurance option. Remember reinsurers, who ensure your insurers. These are global entities unexpected and big losses. And in 2023, their rates skyrocketed. This drove insurers to ask states to homeowners, which states couldn't really deny. That's calling for more regulation and some are even looking a national reinsurance Other reforms at the state are beginning with everything from rate requests are approved to updating the models by which insurers price risk to more frequently near coasts to ensure But as long as the risk the American is going to be less good news? The first step toward there is a problem. And as more to pay for coverage, insurers and regulators know something needs to change.