&quot;A new car from Britain that combines with some of the most modern technology The Lagonda is a When it launched it was all positive. This was a new dynamic car that would lead and the Intercity 125. But over time people were split. Some still considered it a great design. Some saw it as a massive blunder, and not The odd electronic dashboard and to one of automotive's worst failures? Time magazine called it one of the "50 worst But what do they know? The Lagonda was a shot in the arm for Aston So, where did this strange shape come from, go for an all-electronic dashboard, This is the Aston Martin Lagonda Story. [music] 1975 was a bad year for the British car industry. The oil crisis and increasing difficulty selling tipped failing businesses over the edge. British Leyland were the biggest casualty, along with Aston Martin. Aston were sold by the receivers to three The best way they felt to do that was a new The new team had plans to raise that to 250, The Aston Martin V8 had a good chassis, and Maybe they could give the V8 a restyle? The person to do this would be William Towns, William got down to work, but after several - that they should build an entirely new and have it ready for the This fit in well with management's plans. They'd already decided their new car needed Releasing a two-door would kill the market But they had reasons to worry about its success the V8 Lagonda, essentially a stretched V8, spectacularly - only 7 of them were sold! The new car couldn't make the same mistake It would start with the shape. William produced a low slung, angular wedge British Leyland had launched the wedge-shaped Esprit had been shown four years earlier. This would be the shape that would wow customers With time of the essence, he put in 12-hour model that could be used to form the aluminium Just 11 engineers worked on producing the And when it came together it became clear It was long - 5.28m (17' 4") to be exact. That wasn't as long as American cars - the in at 6.35m (20' 10"), but it was going a British multistorey car park! But it wasn't too far off the length of The 2022 long wheelbase Range Rover is only But for the 1970s this was a long car. Height was another matter. Like a sports car such as the Lotus Esprit, giving it a low sports car design. So, despite it being so long, the Mini was half the length. Aston Martin's car was almost 4 times heaver than the That shape was designed to be streamlined, it wasn't like Aston was honing the shape in The new car, with its low nose, would get acceleration and top speed. All that weight and drag meant the car needed Thankfully Aston Martin already built one - But trying to fit that large engine under The solution was to move it as far back in low-profile air intake. This had the disadvantage of low mid-range compromises for fashion! Aston would tweak the engine to give it the the previous V8 Lagonda - with a lower 140mph The previous 4 door had been given the Lagonda This was a company Aston had bought in 1947 1906 when it was founded by an He'd moved to the UK and had become Lagonda was the town he was born in, near Native American word meaning "swift running". It seemed an appropriate name for The Lagonda brand is so important to Aston The brand had been used occasionally since name to attach to this new high-end four-door With just 9 months until the British Motor The 11 person team grew to 17 people. The V8 chassis was stretched 31cm (12"), Being such a luxurious car, a good deal of There would be a wealth of leather - 9 hides would be electronically adjustable. Wilton carpets woven with British wool would, A glass panel sunroof was installed over the to be a limousine, so surely the rear passengers But the main interior feature was the electronic One of Astons new investors was Peter Sprague. He'd been chairman of National Semiconductor computerised cockpit would make Mike Loasby - the lead engineer creating of touch sensitive controls after visiting The electronic dashboard with Mike's touch Cranfield Institute of Technology - all powered There were high and low intensity horns, for Although the car had one fuel tank there were No longer did you need to stretch the fuel And the Lagonda would, of course, had pop-up The low bonnet design likely required it for to be a certain height above the road. The car was ready in 9 months for the British Although it looked the real deal, corners Aston's trim team had worked until 2am to the pop-up radio popped up with the aid of The lid of the box between the seats used And there was one other minor problem - it The press got a sneak peek 2 weeks before car had leaked out, so they were truly taken A press embargo was put on the story until But it was broken by the BBC airing a TV show Not only that, they showed the car moving! The rest of the press were rightly annoyed and in any case, didn't they say the car Yes, that was true. To show the Lagonda moving the BBC had taken People at the 1976 British Motor Show could It was on the front cover of every motoring Was this the future of transportation, with And with this level of luxury along with Aston's got Ferrari performance with Rolls-Royce comfort. The price tag was PS25,000- that's PS157,000 That made it one of the most expensive cars happy to pay almost 30 times as much for a prepared to spend that sort of money on a car. The public were excited about the Lagonda's mostly for the Lagonda. This didn't necessarily help Aston's immediate much firmer financial footing, because despite was a 1 year waiting list for the V8, in reality Now Aston had to get the Lagonda into customer's They announced that deliveries would begin clear that wasn't going to be possible. The electronics were a particular problem. In fact, in the end it could cost 4 times But this shouldn't have been a great surprise. Aston were putting a computer in a car, when No one had attempted a whereas the mechanics of a car were well understood. As Aston were to discover, silicon chips worked but they hadn't been designed to survive Like Morgan Motors, each car was hand built were truly identical, making swapping parts Production of the first car slipped to spring PS33,000 partly due to increasing costs, but In interviews Aston's managing director the price and delivery date had been 9 orders had evaporated, but on the plus side So despite delays, prospects looked good for As William Towns was finishing his work on for a British supercar that would become the One was built, and I've done a video There's an update to the Bulldog video as well. The car has been completely restored and Bulldog in the description. Finally the first Lagonda was ready for delivery. The press were called to drum up interest, The car didn't work and 14 people were working The major problem was that the temperamental The delivery day dawned, but the problems Aston seriously considered cancelling the The delivery was to Lady Tavistock at Woburn Abbey. Aston tried sneaking it in on a low loader, is a mile long driveway and the press had The jig was up, and Aston had to come clean It was major egg on face time. Aston's brochure lauding the Lagonda as In the end it had been let down by an American Aston's engineers had toiled for two straight After the press event Lord Tavistock jumped to thank each of the team personally for all The press weren't as barbed in the 1970s Maybe because the British car industry were new Lagonda, making light of Aston would of course get the car running whenever Lord &amp; Lady Tavistock drove the car, loader in case the Lagonda developed another fault! But when it worked it was wonderful. While driving down the M1 at 80-90 mph they A young policeman came up to the window - "Why yes". "My mate and I were wondering what it's The next thing the policeman was driving it with the police car struggling to keep up! Real deliveries began in 1979 once the bugs per week, each taking 2,200 worker hours. And Lagonda sales were sorely needed - Aston with a Lagonda waiting reputedly over 2 years. Aston Martin investor Peter Sprague of National Lagonda's to meet US regulations. He took delivery on the Tuesday, was unable meeting, and by Thursday Aston had sold it That car that Peter nearly owned was something The car featured self-levelling suspension. Each engine was hand built by a single person that was, maybe so they knew who to complain The "1980's-style sensitive touch switches" user to change between mph and km/h. In an age before trip computers the Lagonda elapsed time &amp; distance for each trip. The "Essential Services Only" button limited There was cruise control and the doors could And it was fast. The Duke of Westminster discovered he could stately home's two-mile driveway! The landed gentry though weren't the only buyers. A good percentage were sold to the newly rich Aston produced a special "desert touring up with the incessant sun that beat down through Rear air conditioning kept passengers at just But thanks to inflation the price of the car When it launched in Australia it was the most But boot space was less than stellar. During the design phase, the new Aston directors space, and then signed off on it. However, things change, and with the additional poor leg room - not ideal for such a luxury 6' 2" (188cm) Peter Sprague later admitted Not only was it cramped, with it being so to get in and out. One smart-ass quipped that Aston had managed Splashy promotional footage showed the car had problems. Aston failed to notice that there was a dent Once the sheen of excitement faded it became seats, weren't very ergonomic. A 7 second 0-60 time was nothing to sniff Aston experimented with twin turbochargers 380hp (283kW). It remained just a prototype, but Aston did more performance that Tyrell's Classic Workshop Other companies offered performance improvements, the Lagonda into an estate or shooting brake. In 1981 Aston Martin created a separate engineers Tickford were a coachbuilder that Aston Martin The new Tickford team produced custom versions and in 1983 produced the Lagonda Tickford. It had a colour matched body kit, plus luxurious a video player, picnic tables and a drinks cabinet. But despite all these top-of-the-line features, not even the Tickford Ford Capri used! 5 were sold, mostly to Middle Eastern customers so A year later Aston and Tickford produced a While at first glance it might seem madness the cramped rear, the extra 64cm (25") of It seems Lagonda customers rarely used the In 1978 Managing Director Alan Curtis said the Lagonda in 1985. That was bluster from a company that was running In fact, it would be updated as the Lagonda The previous car would be known as the Series The main change with the Series 3 car was a solution created by US company Javelina for the F-15 Eagle tactical fighter. Auto-dimming TV screens showed the relevant information It was powered by just 100KB of memory and nagging you that the boot was open, or you Maybe admitting they weren't the future, a new layout that paid scant attention to For example, the bonnet release button was mornings you could just pop the hood rather Doug Demuro has a good walk through of a Series On the outside the car was almost identical, which was now ahead of the front wheel. Like other cars in Aston's range, the engine US emissions rules. It gave the Lagonda a little more power and a more reasonable 16mpg (17.5 l/100km). At this point sales were ticking along nicely, V8 to focus on Lagonda sales. Unfortunately the TV screen dashboard proved and later Series 3 cars used a vacuum fluorescent The buttons changed again, and were moved But some touch sensitive buttons remained The Lagonda had been introduced in 1976, and as fashionable as bell-bottom trousers. Like the Lotus Esprit, the Series 4 Lagonda Maybe he just chiselled the edges off the The pop-up headlights were gone, now that the new car sported larger 16" (41cm) alloy The Series 4 Lagonda coincided with new ownership Ford bought a controlling stake in 1987 and The Lagonda was a dinosaur from a different New Aston Martin cars could use platforms The result was the DB7 that sold at 10 times who's looks now stood out for the wrong Its design had been so "of the moment" they come and go quickly, and by the late especially compared to modern rivals. The very things that drew customers to the Production of the Lagonda ended in the first cars around the world. Aston looked to revive their fortunes with styled by Italian coachbuilder Zagato. Unfortunately, it never got past a concept. 5 years later Aston tried again, this time It was the antithesis of the Lagonda's straight Inside it was also a sea of circles, but very It gave a hint of the Jaguar S-Type that would Based on the Lincoln Town Car platform, there Ford decided it would be too expensive to They were having enough trouble reviving the So, that was about it for the Lagonda. Aston focused on the DB7 which got high praise, of two door grand tourers, being sold off driving them around an airfield. Aston Martin changed hands once more in 2007, once more looked at the Lagonda heritage. With the Aston Martin name attached to two-door for their crossover concept in 2009. Well, Aston didn't say the dreaded "c" word. This was an "four-seat international tourer" it was really a crossover! In the end it would come to nothing, but the hard to ignore if a car company wants to stay launch the DBX in 2020. Many in the Middle East had fond memories original car would make sense? Aston presented the Lagonda Taraf in 2014. Taraf meant "ultimate luxury" in Arabic, be sold in the Middle East. The car was engineered by Aston Martin's of course the company that makes James Bond's Development had taken just 2 years, a lot had more than 17 people working on it! Production of the PS685,000 ($1M USD, EUR795,000, and ended a year later after selling 120 exclusive cars. Aston saw the Lagonda name as a future brand so they launched two concepts to test the waters. The first was the 2018 Vision saloon with It was followed up with a crossover, sorry, using the same styling cues. Any hopes these would come to market faded It was time to batten down the hatches and chairman Lawrence Stroll. But with Lagonda in the company's name, we can be sure that one day Aston can't have made much money on the Lagonda. They went through three generations of instrumentation and none of them worked particularly well. When Evel Knievel bought a Lagonda he removed Sometimes it's good to be first to market, bet on the wrong technology. Why was a digital dashboard better? Why were touch sensitive controls better? No one stopped to ask that question, not even Even Mike Loasby, the Lagonda's chief engineer eventually called it a "totally bad idea". These gee-wizz features were "cutting edge" cars to rich customers looking for a status a car to be a useful daily driver, ergonomics Companies like BMW &amp; Mercedes made stylish of luxury and were easy to drive. No wonder that when Bill Gates was the richest he wanted, his daily driver was a Mercedes Of course, this hasn't stopped touch sensitive being less ergonomic than push buttons, but They're cheaper for one, and they offer without having to change the physical controls. Screens can display any information at any The Lagonda with its exciting shape and electronics and it clearly had a role in Aston's survival. It was the main car produced by Aston Martin Like bell bottoms, it's gone through being the phase of being utterly unfashionable, If you want to see my history of the Aston Martin there's a link to the video on the right. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video!