Welcome one welcome all to my descent into madness. in the game. Oh and you know what? This person look that's Shortcat! They're gonna pass me right Oh there's red shell, let's go! Yeah that's gonna That's what you get for being an impostor. So uh for every character if you want to understand you're winning with your favorite character we're gonna play as all of them to prove that a good result every single time, so some of these we're starting with Yoshi Teddy ooh skill issue it's the best one in the game according to most strategy, rather than my- oh [laughs] instead of about in the last video, this time I'm gonna talk of a try-hard video, I'm playing against very good ahead of everyone while I'm still invincible and just not have anything to do with them. Okay this last mushroom here, and uh I'm gonna use triple mushrooms if it's not in my first slot, but spot on the track right after the glider and then These mushrooms aren't gonna do that much so drifts. Uh on drifts, it's actually better to use sharp but uh it does make it so that you go faster during a drift you actually slow down, but the be [laughs] hitting walls like this. Oooh! Hold Oh I got the item, sick! Oh no oh no no no this items in front of me that could hit me and now I don't know why I didn't get chopped, what? I'm I should have gotten like fourth, but that's what Shortcat got last! [laughs] absolute Longcat. I even front run? Should I even [laughs] front run never worked. I'll feel like it's going so well so I might as well bag, but I can't go through spot you can now only get two good items per set as you want assuming it's chainable items. And bagging is unviable like everyone has been telling balance patch is all not true anymore! No, come on who says that is just not very good at this game true this whole narrative about bagging is dead, Oh what?! I don't even got I didn't even get a it? Yeah well that's undodgeable. Anyway, we're is because you can get two items and because know you don't need three items to do shortcuts. I couldn't get my star out, this is bad we're on make this comeback take all the shortcuts get to reasons that bagging is good in this game [evil orange, okay this was going so well and I just it's over! Don't blame bagging bagging is not dead trust me guys [laughs] this would have worked shells. Sixth place okay at least it wasn't a bad top two. A lot of people left, including Shortcat position to front run Cheese Land, should I do it first time I'm actually gonna attempt this to attempt this, someone has hit me right away and really want it to work, but at the same time the is like I don't want this to work. Oh and also um is uh by by the end, I want to average better than I have another rule, it's um I want to only play That way you know I'm actually playing against like the 10,000 VR range, I can win with almost too much, and that's why uh I have this other combos are truly good at a pretty decent level I didn't see it early enough, that sucks! Hit you mushroom boost res! Nice got the double. Oooh that bullet, get rid of this thing. Oh I actually think I win [laughs] okay! Front running running out far enough to get mushrooms for the ending, really work? Oh! You see why I hate anti-gravity on the left side, and then I fell off the right Just happened twice proved my point, I have the right right after these people get their items yep Oh that banana was in a dangerous spot. Okay so already so far behind. But here's my chance, just with a red shell was scary until they threw the doing well here. Let's watch out for that green really good item here from the distance, yep! Need They're still right there! [Music] oh that was so back! All right so I I guess I'm starting in first just left, it was nuts! Cheese Land showed up on I'm not dealing [laughs] with that which is fair I especially ones that are as bad as Cheese Land. as Cheese Land I love Cheese Land. Okay let's lagging all over the place they can still hit me lag! Okay that anti-gravity bump was fine. I feel as bad. Okay that was nice! The mini turbo on this so I have to remember that, this is more like King to. Yeah I have to be careful here, okay they're side a little bit, yeah there we go. Okay so here I'm going more to the right. Oh I couldn't trick! this red shell for a little bit. All right we're are you so fast? Come on come on what happened No! I got second! It's just lag I think nothing Japanese. I love the way Rosalina's uh light blue it looks amazing. And The Duke? No one ever plays right and can we get a mini turbo, no not quite. I'm used to like almost maximum mini turbo from Like what was the point of practicing all that if I keep switching up my combo [laughs] every single if you don't think so, I challenge you to try it. on get this coin, yes! Okay stay protected for a I don't I don't think so I'm just gonna go around. is why you stay in second place. Okay wow they things I I never think about it. Okay watch out behind me. So we're gonna toss both of these, and Practice peg- oh someone was right there? [laughs] players! What a time to start in first place, Tanooki Mario standard cart, and like the standard looks really cute. Like you see this stuff on the And then the button tires is obviously really Tanooki Mario as being a really cute character. I actually makes the race more entertaining. Like race more boring, what? I didn't even hop! Wow! I turbo stats a little lower, I should charge the long I didn't hop. Whoa! Where's my mushroom? come on [Music] okay one one last chance to get Oh I didn't even get an item! Okay whatever, just People gap jumping come on not too many. Yes! Gorge still feels like Mushroom Gorge from Mario is incredible, so I've been keeping track of my see it but, I've been averaging better than third know if I'm gonna be able to keep that up, this think I'm supposed to do that well especially lot I can't control, but, I'm doing so well I hope if I can average third place or better probably or better? That that that that would be cool. Okay can trail me. I don't even know where they are know I'm just gonna go for coins, this is too like they could be anywhere, like the the way they like I just get hit. [laughs] see like I didn't lagged way in front of me after that. But you have not try and specifically snipe people and probably Coins coins coins, thank you, this is great! Can not moving super slow. Give me that give me that okay! Third place that was about to be so bad and stopped [laughs] you know people stopped hitting wasn't a real Birdo top 3 cuz I just switched already said I love the GLA tires, and this combo jet black of the GLA tires, it looks awesome! Okay unreasonable locations because look the way they Okay last chance to make a comeback I do have some as that Daisy combo I played. Yes! Nooo swerve dead I'm dead there's like stuff right there. Okay we get here, take a little shortcut at the end. got seventh, okay that's better than I thought I was really worried because we got we Rainbow Road, bad but we're on 200cc now. And I'm just gonna and that's gonna that's gonna be my chance to win. play this track. It's supposed to drift off that cool wow I actually somehow I got a bigger lead whatever with this, okay not that, but whatever. wow! If I win this this counts, nooo! I jinxed I think you probably just trick off here. Okay, I come on! [Music] okay okay okay we're doing just get away from these greens. Mushroom anytime lap. Okay oh that green shell, flew into the air. when you don't play 200cc is the most chaotic little bit [Music] Ah smart steering [laughs] here we go! Throw your item, now! [Music] give me much I thought I was in second [laughs] you know to play Shy Guy in Shy Guy Falls, I just burned maybe they left after they saw the track there was SNES Mario Circuit 3 and then a lot this person didn't like that, and they probably VR. Rod taught me about that strategy, it's tracks in this game and like some some of them you only want to play the tracks that you really that bump [Music] okay no purple mini turbo dodged that if I [laughs] was better if I was a messed up! Ah they hit me from the side yeah this is really bad now! Okay I almost got bitten Toad? {Music] this is a disaster [laughs] nooo! an item to take the shortcut, that is rough! this double item box can do for me. Okay somehow happy with that. I got destroyed so bad, and I end. The whole room disconnected after that race, show you but like on the globe, everyone just flew once in a while and I'm like holy okay I have I join the room in a particular way, I don't I don't so we'll see. Okay get rid of your trail item, this one I don't really care to hit you I just problem right here. I'm I'm I'm gonna be nice to you remember that for later [laughs] but I need section felt not slippery at all cuz my traction an unreasonably high traction I'm just speccing shells coming and they're not backing out, see try to gain distance from people behind you, but that I'm scared of a shock. Now get my coins up. if you mess it up [Music] what do you have I place after coming back, I just need to see the count. No, this is good! Okay yeah let's keep so we just got Shy Guy Falls twice around the race considering like uh not counting the races where and I was like, I have to play like 50 races and good chance to get duplicates. Uh so yeah that's my policy so I have to make up my mind like actually I got 12th place this race doesn't early. Okay I'm gonna save this mushroom so that boo. Okay I'm gonna use this now, to get rid of That's so stupid [laughs] Oh RNG killed this sometimes. I feel robbed, this was worse than the second, because I I had my item stolen at the last which is pretty good, averaging exactly third I've been getting but these results are really on going, and I just cannot get an item can I? does last place have a red shell? That that is when you're already getting beat up, and then second last place has a red shell too! And it's let's hit you, you're in the middle of the road. down just in time. I'm having to get a little war even matter cuz we're both so far behind [laughs] boosters, it's just that this part's already let's go! I think I hit them [laughs] give me this is great! Okay note for next time use that box as well, but I just skip an item, for that timing. Another bullet, thank you cannon glider! so I'm gonna use it when- oooh I'm gonna but person with green shells I didn't want to deal to first and I just messed up! What was that? been like in a clear first right now and I just out of the bullet. Okay I still have a chance here third place, wow! I'm just non-stop third place. Boo [laughs] I'm not sure about this combo I have know this is good, I just don't know how good I am um let's not even get an item. Oh yeah the the low ooh! Okay give me coins don't take them from me behind me has a red shell, this is this is good good. Oh I missed the item [Music] and I only have me has a red shell I thought it was something red like you really want a high mini turbo stat for good for this track. Okay I'm fine here though need to stay on like unpredictable lines. What are do that? Okay first place I can probably beat them gonna do? No! Of course there's always a red sh- Good stats let's see if I can pass this Yoshi at was a bad race I finally got some good stats and to show up! I look so goofy right now. Objectively Petey Piranha is one of the goofiest characters that it's a problem, like it it's actually a so I just run into bananas. Oh! Okay at least my didn't end up hitting me. We have some item lag go around for coins. Of course [sighs] nothing funny got six mushrooms. I'm just getting triple I might need to leave. Can I even count this single mushroom. Give me my item everyone else is the entire race! Look at that [Music] oh dodge this race was dumb. That was a dumb race I think okay it's Nintendo certified this one counts policy is we keep the repeats. So I'm gonna try did really bad on Moo Moo Meadows last time but I playing for a while. I need to get away from this up the shortcut. Okay this is- I can't be playing Messing up such an easy [laughs] shortcut I'm I have to do some snaking here, make sure I get anyone dodge oh that's so scary stay to the side. me we're good we're good [Music] let's go go go go Oh don't hit me don't hit me, third! [laughs] I combo? It's the same one I used with his dad. So all the time now, I haven't even played that many a repeat now [laughs] this sucks. Everyone in do I do? Okay two of them cancel each other Good throw! I didn't even see I think it came from I think someone had a really good back throw. Oh nothing has hit me [Music] how is nothing hit me? good item please! That's not good. I was ready for I can't even get to my items, sixth. I'm so over! This is so bad for me this is such a speed my all I'm gonna have to if I if I want to get pretty slow I'm gonna be slower than everyone here nothing I can do like I have a high mini turbo you charge like what four mini turbos? Five mini got bumped off okay well, [laughs] everyone item okay get rid of your trail item. I just don't over people and then potentially pulling like but I do not want to deal with just being hit. like these baby characters? They're slow they enough on all tracks! I just hit the button I'm well they activated the star. Yeah I need coins is I'm going so slow that people keep passing me it's not like I'm just getting unlucky this is you play a bad combo for a track. People pass you, get rid of this thing. Nooo, come on! Give me this place ah this is gonna be really rough, this be hard to get a good result. I went to sleep and and I'm still in a room full of Japanese players always here, I've not been able to find an hour of it's crazy it's it's kind of messed up if you against these Japanese players, this Link is- expecting I was expecting to get hit by something in these rooms. But that that Link was too smart, me with a banana. Okay I I I need coins right now track so it's kind of bad that I'm I'm on Baby all the coins that I lost from getting hit. Stay extension right here. Give me those coins, nooo little curve, there we go. No! See what I mean? let's go let's go! Oh great items! I'm gonna for the boost panel section and nobody has golden mushroom. All right fourth place, this is good start usage. All right I don't know if I can oh did this person fall off? They probably hit the of the lag. Oh that's my mom! I have to take down except I forgot to switch off the paper glider I made an entire video on this. It it already my main for the longest time. I think yeah, so I think this was actually my main for the longest time ever I may not ever have a main that Because I loved the mini turbo stat, and this you can do it with baby Mario and have one more if if uh I started playing today. Just to learn combo to learn on. Even though this is a straight good here because it helps you um get bigger trick getting that purple mini turbo so easy with this good but it's so fun. And I know this combo like played it in a very [laughs] long time. Okay much acceleration I don't really need to keep my lag I don't know if I'm really in second place, almost ran into that banana, oh good items! I My item got stolen come on get second place this yes! [laughs] let's gooo! I beat my mom oh that combo? This combo looks amazing! I just wish there GLA tires do. There's no good silver looking tires metal tires cuz those are silver but they're not So this is the best I have, for um trying to make of this Link I don't want people behind me with to find a safe spot and try to stay there as no super horn! Please don't use it [Music] okay, have it it might have incentivized them to use it. Trying to be extra safe thinking about what take the shortcut. Oh this mini turbo stats not Okay that was good that was good managed to get an difficult for everyone around me. Second place is so I'm just kind of keeping my spot here, if I can shell stay out of the way! [Music] okay, this is so scary! Come on what a- I got fifth place ugh! any of those red shells? Okay I've switched rooms, this track kind of. I felt like the other room happening until several seconds later all the rooms and hope I get not as laggy of a room. Oh! Get rid get rid of your trail, I just don't want was actually a bad idea. Okay they're they might oh they didn't! Okay but yeah that's one way you back. I almost got hit! Okay this is this is good you took someone else out so you're not gonna they could back their greens. I I don't know they play. Okay get rid of your red shell you're you? [laughs] I'm so nervous about these people is trailing they just can't stop trailing. Okay from the side again oh no no no no no I did I Gold Peach gets a lot of hate and I mean I don't a fish and she sounds like a fish in water and for listen to this all the time. Oh the bomb! What? getting fifth none of that made sense! Wiggler on I recommended that is actually like it it's pretty playing Wiggler, why are you playing Wiggler? playing the Wiggler because he's awesome? And if this combo [laughs] this is the most awesome of we keep getting tracks from random, there are some time cuz they see the the three tracks available these but I don't think they understand that like this game. It's like I want wave six DLC track picking random every single time, if any of the Don't pick random every time cuz then you can get on Excitebike Arena because you picked random, the select screen are not Excitebike Arena, right? Arena. I mean when Excitebike shows up, people my chance! Make up a little bit of time here but Okay let's let's go around. Um this is scary with forward. Oh no! Don't mush him in front of this like did you just throw that randomly? I had a the bomb would definitely hit you. Okay this but second place, pretty good! I hit myself with 4 before Yoshi's Teddy became the meta. This trying not to use Waluigi wiggler and I respect am I right? Oh! Get out of my way, okay now using a better combo. Oh we didn't get an item, I need to be in second place and not in third red shell went for first place what is it doing? a red shell. You know what's funny? We we had and then we got Dolphin Shoals because, someone we had like we had like Sunshine Airport, Rainbow more than Dolphin Shoals. And then we got Dolphin and you keep picking random, think about the gonna like it either [laughs] what?! What?! I I all happened that it all happened so quick and person. That race was so frustrating it was just what what I was supposed to do about that, like to do. I just flew out of nowhere okay now I'm my bananas hit people. Okay and let's- oh! Let's that's really surprising. Okay I'm not gonna reds holy maybe I should have. I almost wanted to like this is gonna hit me for sure. No item, it's probably gonna throw this forward. Don't tell me thank you it was just lag. This is such a scary trailing yep! [Music] [laughs] you know sometimes so glad nothing hit me for the entire second half the last time I recorded for this video, and Ice World again. So I'm gonna focus I'm feeling lag this time. Okay okay this is good this is I was gonna win I got fourth, nooo! How- what hit the off-road on their screen and that's why that is that FatKitty back there? I can't tell uh well almost the same stat and I have to remember that so I can't give them too much attention [laughs] fine, it's just a different family than mine. Oh I let's get three coins on the left here, okay not Toad Circuit definitely a bagging track, I have for me. And I'm not gonna be able to get rid of ready for the next item set. Don't hit me, thank just want to keep cycling items, this is not good! have to take the shortcut this is actually kind here! I'm right here with you guys! Okay here's here, take this shortcut, get in the glider, shortcut or for a blue shell. Just hope nobody track [Music] no! What?! Are you serious game? RNG that I went from a guaranteed win to ninth place? Dry Bones Mario Kart DS combo okay I can't do the a nostalgic combo the the dry bomber from Mario but you know it's it's it's got the the the cannon I learned about snaking all by myself in Mario I ended up playing the most before Mario Kart gonna get pushed off no no we're good, never mind. from me talking about what just happened in the had a guaranteed win, and both races something First time was lag, the way that Nintendo designed on someone else's screen, you get hit, which where you are on someone else's screen. And then, got my item stolen, the thing is like, it could stole from me slightly later I would have used the earlier, I I would have known not to go into the could have possibly happened in that scenario. no I got no one. The return of Shortbird? I knew about Shortbird and now Shortbird is one Waluigi Stadium but I'm on a goofy combo I do have a lot of traction though. Oooh that was Everyone's so good at this shortcut at this the way [Music] oh no! I didn't go high enough. I though cuz it puts you in kind of a bad line. Okay yeah I'm not even gonna try, that's so bad. still rocking that iconic Yellow Yoshi. Okay okay bad right now. Get a coin, so hard to get coins on has a red shell it's hard to pass them, oh no they not gonna red shell you either. Protect my protect no winning streak to protect but- oh wait I'm in have got hit by the red shell then. Shortbird race {Music] I hit some offroad, this is bad. No helping me out though [Music] I don't I don't know a trick! Oh I'm my hands are shaking! Shortcat Stadium, let's go Bowser Jr Koopa Clown! Oh there to show up. Hello Shortbird! I have to change my Shortbird what is this? [laughs] I thought Shortbird's combo and thought that Shortbird was bit of whites and I was like oh that's the Koopa bike, that's so funny. They weren't even using completely random and we have a Mario standard now, on Neo Bowser City. [sighs] it's not my track wet Bowser City. No! Why are you? That that's lag they lagged over to me or they hit the wall and you know it could be either one. Okay I'm not a big disadvantage [laughs] on this track. I need this is rough! Wow is that Shortbird in first? getting- okay no item I'm I'm definitely getting I gonna average a good placement, when this keeps Shortbird saw the video Shortbird is mad that they let's take down Shortbird I think that might give got bumped into the wall into a full stop. fully stopped I lost all my speed. It's okay I was big of a deal, uh we're just gonna take shortcut it's like it's no biggie as long as you're getting you're on such a slow combo I'm gonna pass Daisy [laughs] all right short top two whoa! That I'm gonna take a shortcut here, and then just be a red shell they've been in first the whole race, back in second place. Double trap the item box. stop someone else from catching up. There's a Oh they dodged the shock, wow! A couple people [sighs] okay that's fine that's fine fourth too [laughs] the bullet extension is so strong 3.94 this is getting very scary cuz my goal was to get bumped off. Oh that bump was strong, jeez! I'm in second [laughs] oh Lemmy's acceleration baby Rosalina same stats, and so maybe I'll have a grass, jeez [Music] okay but I haven't played a long time. Two defenses though, nice! First one people are menaces out here [Music] that was a mushroom, nope! No one has a mushroom, let's slow down maybe I noticed it too late. It's okay soon enough, they have a bomb I think. This is so that's why you don't trail a bomb you messed again [Music] Luigi high five yes okay for the items! Oh everyone got mushrooms. Okay at least Okay that puts my average exactly at four, this for a lot of things, like when did I ever use even used Wendy, I've shown Wendy twice on this a comment if you know. Also I know nothing about Koopalings in one game, is that controversial so many [laughs] Koopalings in one game. Okay hold it all the way to gap jump, yeah there we go! this is not good, maybe well I couldn't have held so I'll just hold this for a little while. Maybe what? We were top two for a sec. What Shortbird gap jump that's crazy! I don't even know how Shortbird could bomb me I feel like may not bomb me. I got target shocked, nooo! Oh me though. No trick. Please please! [laughs] two again! [laughs] major respect to Shortbird they have such a big disadvantage on this track. back, I like the bow it's like Birdo. But I just you know? [laughs] I don't want to be too mean to no! Oh red shell, let's stay to the side. [sighs] wow! They reded first place twice already? Why? me don't trail me. They're trying! I can't pass red shell me, I and I know they will because of Okay that sucks. People just be tossing their only gotten mushrooms this whole race. Can't even shell, saving one for the ending shortcut. Not worst [laughs] imagine getting random greened because of it [Music] his hair has to be one of the best hairs, just one of the best things in I've just not been doing so hot right now. Nice can go well right now, absolutely nothing can go getting red shelled? Nothing can go right this I couldn't do anything this race!! Shortbird's so Shortbird's front running this track, I'm we'll see what the real strategy is on this track. front probably- oh okay got bumped into the pipe, not good [Music] right so I made up one position another item ah good banana [Music] okay I got me almost every single race, good job with the show up again sometime, good night! Okay it's it's time for me to be the best player in this getting dangerously far away from four we don't but there's a red shell right behind me I'm just is good! Okay I didn't mean to do that I meant know if that's even possible [Music] okay I didn't Whatever that's better than fourth place let's get already [laughs] messed up [Music] oh I didn't get draft draft come on! Give it to me, thank you! can get a purple mini turbo here with Morton. No just keeps trailing it's so hard to get close to this it puts me in first without a super horn so Or just use it now. Cuz I'm probably not gonna Just gonna go for one item here keep up with them. you? [Music] oh! Is that a purple? Nice! It was just gonna hope they don't get a mushroom [Music] [laughs] why are you so slow after the shortcut? I think they messed up oh! That's what you get for is the best looking combo for Peachette, I I I probably true for Peach as well, I really like City Tripper sound effects. I think it's got one in kind of this category like the the Teddy Buggy here, I love this shortcut. Doesn't do that much, let's go! [Music] do a little shortcut action, a little bit, only got an orange mini turbo not totally safe to hold this mushroom for now. Nice orange mini turbo, secure a little breakaway. Love mini turbo when you're not playing on the Diddy keep holding these items, blue shell protection not good. Okay I have a pretty big lead right me are gonna get insane items. What? That came red shell. Oh no! I I literally had no time to fast enough to get tricks here. Okay that green will be too distracting to look behind me for now Okay orange mini turbo is fine I still win with an funny! I'm so glad that Inkling Boy Ink Striker purple hair? Really matches the Ink Striker which gonna pick one color for each of the inklings share the same stats except for the boy and the so I will be using them separately. Okay let's come for me nooo! Can you just crack on someone go for shortcut I just want to get to the front, didn't make that slight mistake, I would not have compound in this game, because if you make more yep and then you're more likely to get hit by try to attribute it to the very first mistake you never know, things probably would have gone nooo! Yeah they just had to wait for my star Dry Bones [laughs] the Dry Bones that has been bad! Oh but I hit a few people nice. Oh everyone's you do that? Nooo! Come on come on acceleration everyone got destroyed at the end I was just get for burning out at at the start. I am running to think I wanted the average to be below three at the coin! Okay and let's get two items here just I love bagging on this track the shortcuts are [Music] double shortcut! I'm in fifth with I think I should bag a little bit longer though. dodged that, but it's not important it's only lap made that short cut way easier, that shortcut so much. Give me on this turn nice oh what? No! this is good this is good, what?! Where did No mushrooms. Get me out of here! [Music] that just slightly better I think I could have won, four. Oh we got the Animal Crossing Track and I'm I get a speed boost on this track I'm even using crossing parts though like the Streetle or City hit the button for the banana I mean the mushroom. no no those bananas, oh I still got hit! I got of this quick! Okay okay okay we're still kind pack [Music] nooo! Why does this keep happening? get another item cuz his plant lasted for too long though, I got the trick what was that? [Music] bringing the average back down come on let's get when I set this as male villager's best combo box is honestly pretty jank [laughs] it's so big! it means I have some weight stat I mean the GLA what? What what even was that? Oh this is off to use it no one's dodging, one person dodged! They before you somehow hit me [Music] that's what you at the end because I have so much speed! Isabelle like she's going on an adventure oh my mini turbo mean an orange? No I got a blue. Ugh this is not has been the downfall of me so often this video mini turbos in that whole thing probably not the the first time [laughs] this mini turbo stats not slow down I know they could use it at any moment I don't even know what happened to my bananas. Purple mini turbo nice! My ice got stolen again clue that was the worst race of my life and I got let's go! I can definitely do this. I feel very one else feels confident on this track. Let's just of me. Yeah stop someone from approaching me, I shell behind me I think [Music] no mushroom boost scared they're gonna do something crazy with this this forward and it could just hit me, so I'm just a blue shell. Perfect! Right on the boost panel. I expect but no excuse I went way too far to the first place. Okay mushroom just to be safe. What?! There's more bananas is near me! Nice! Okay very have taken that would have been smarter, but I saw went from front running to comeback time [Music] me right now but I don't know what else they have, don't do that much on this track. Get rid of it forward it's way too risky! I don't need to get myself. Okay some distance, there's a blue shell. Gonna hold this for red shell defense, that's the first place! Okay we can do it we can definitely at the end of this as well [laughs] Diddy Kong no no we're good we're good. These bumps these back again, that's so annoying [Music] Diddy Kong kind of just have to play perfect and not get when I think I'm I'm gonna get hit or I can get let's make a push for the front. Stay away from I'm invincible. Got someone! Need to take them boomerang? I don't know how to dodge that I'm just pretend it's not there. Took the coins from them, please, thank you! No blue shell probably I'm just I can't believe I won this race, come on! After heart is beating out of my chest. I put so many few races. I don't care I'm picking front running to get a backing track right now. Okay okay that this track because it brings so much chaos every here just to make sure I stay in first place. Okay get double item box I have to. Stay in the water banana people have been playing really aggressive me [laughs][Music] I can't see anything here so close! Funky Kong's so big I couldn't see Still no blue shell- no no no no no no! Blue shell Trail you first thank you! Almost got trailed okay that's fine that's totally fine fourth place wow! Okay I need to get eighth place or better sings [Music] that was really bad I could might get hit for it or hit someone else? No oh I almost got into the fire [Music] they have No I have to now. Wow that was so stupid! Oh!