I am inside the VisiTel, 1987's future of Mitsubishi's Visual Telephone Display you could see who was on the other end of The only problem is that the Visitel videophone doesn't send video and you can't Now your Grandma Myrtle accidentally FaceTimes you fingers push the wrong button - but the dream was more expensive than you can imagine, on the planet to flush half a But the biggest surprise of all is built into of years developing our visual systems so we can and body language, despite our never ending of reading human appearance - it turns out we And while video conferencing is ubiquitous now, from remote Zoom-ing and Google Meet-ing for calls on iOS, Android, WhatsApp, Discord... I grabbed the March 1988 issue of it featured a cover story about the dawn of under $400! And they used your existing William J. Hawkins heralded the arrival of wave of similar devices from Sony, Sharp, and potential for the devices included augmenting having your real estate broker show you making sign language viable for phone FINALLY. And Hawkins also predicted that to peripherals like printers that or sending clips from home movies He actually got... a lot of that right. So I grabbed a pair of brand new, never need TWO of these things to work, or one person the ether. The box is... oddly hideous, but it looks like you're about to And there's these brown splatters? I have no I do not want to know how these The unit itself is actually really cool, newest gen of Amazon's Echo Show - the VisiTel a 96 x 96 pixel display resolution and no color photos. The embedded camera is a 16mm and there are 8 brightness control settings. The back has an RJ-11 jack to and... that's it. In an era of shockingly pretty efficient and extremely user-friendly. To the camera and it displays a video image of So you just give Grandma a call and you Here's what happens instead, I'll other to test them out. Hitting the "Send" that over the standard telephone you can't talk AND you can't hear the other rebuilds and mirrors the image properly for your The problem with sending video over telephone A phone line at the time carried about 3.5 could be sent per second. To put that into When you press and hold the "Send" button, white image into data representing picture Random-Access Memory - and then the pixels to control the amplitude or volume of a tone. Sending an image sounded like this. is converted to a digital grayscale for each So, it builds the picture over time. converted to an analog grayscale and and the VisiTel can store 3 of those images in But what about phone lines They actually factored that into the quality were mitigated by what's called the receiving phone just ahead of the picture The whole start-to-finish transmission which was a major improvement over Sony's and white - Mitsubishi said color images Okay, so both of these units both make a VisiTelephone call. I'm going to try Matt Tabor. I'll teleport to 1988, and This was revolutionary but the promise of talking to video screens The 1870's. The December 9th, 1878 issue of Punch Magazine Thomas Edison's "Telephonoscope" - a vision of a as sound. The image is an unbelievably prescient of instant visual telecommunication NO. The immediate reaction is to think forward-thinking glimpse into the a very smart one. That's an example of presentism, evidence through modern attitudes and values. But this entire illustration was It suggests that Edison was a crazy inventor techno-utopian future, and it mocks the like a Telephonoscope would actually do for us. What the comic actually Ivy Roberts described the phenomenon in "Visions and Machine Ages" - the people reading Punch in assume that everyone was thrilled with like electricity and photography, but of cynicism that saw these inventions as goofy the economic concerns of the Luddites - it was for the worse as an emerging class of technocrats wasn't a techno-fantasy for a future video phone, And it stayed that way for a while. The 1936 Charlie Chaplin film "Modern Times" president of the Electro Steel Corp. using a large At the end of the scene, The Tramp sabotages the And 9 years before, Fritz Lang's 1927 future of industrialists high in skyscrapers overworked subterranean masses. It was But what Fritz Lang didn't realize was at delighting millions and earning a spot in Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover - who of the United States - successfully tested receive video with AT&amp;T President As Lang and Chaplin were sounding alarm happening - and the videophone's "moment" was A Bell Labs executive named Julius Molnar videophone technology that could be in every will be the primary mode by which people Picturephone booths were set up at the AT&amp;T to sinking half a billion dollars trying and they could finally showcase it on the song for the Picturephone called the "Ballad In a place where electronic wonders abound A wonderful coupling of vision and speech It was all legitimately INCREDIBLE - Which is weird, because Bell Labs is probably the century - it's impossible to capture Bell Labs' transistors, vacuum tubes, long-distance calling, systems, photovoltaic cells, charged-couple video on a smartphone on your toilet because of at all levels, government and household, and they The problem was... did anyone want their More than 25 years before he served World is Carmen Sandiego?" kids show, Howard the World's Fair. He recalled that his junior to get dressed up to talk on the phone, When Blumenthal wrote about the Mitsubishi not enough people had them, and they Blumenthal, and everyone else dancing on Maria was the one who got it right A 2021 study from Carnegie Mellon concluded that intelligence. But videophones can't make you In "The Idea Factory: Bell Labs and the Gertner detailed the market research The majority of the 700 people surveyed said "very important," so that was encouraging The beauty of the telephone isn't just that that they can both connect comfortably. They can unshowered, wearing old clothes, in a messy house, talk - and the other person doesn't know. There's or a text message, that allows for mutual consent all of that gets way tougher: two people need seen to make it work, and if there's any kind Maria could've saved Bell Labs A. Michael Noll worked for Bell Labs in - he was also suspicious. He said in a 1988 to whispering in the ear. Seeing somebody almost we ask an audience whether they want to There were good reasons not to reasons to stick to audio. So... Let's talk Howard Blumenthal was right about and Bell Labs was about to find out. Just 12% they'd pay between $40 and $60 a month but they didn't want to pay a premium for it. That same year AT&amp;T opened Picturephone rooms could rent one of these rooms for up and someone in one of the other cities would go A total of only 71 calls were made in 6 MINUTE IN TODAY'S DOLLARS - and even though not a single Picturephone call Here's a question: What would A year prior to AT&amp;T's zero customer would have 1 million users generating was so exciting that film director Stanley sense of what the future of communication calls his daughter on a Picturephone So, the obvious solution was to roll it out to the masses - they had to plow forward In 1970 Picturephone opened markets in Pittsburgh, service. And again, it was really expensive - which is about $1,322 per month adjusted for the first half hour, which is $2.07 PER MINUTE After a full year and a half of the test rollout EIGHT. They even cut the price in half did people not want to spend all that of people didn't see the point Bell Labs and the citizens of Pittsburgh Metcalfe's Law. Computer engineer Robert Metcalfe coined the of a networked device increases proportional to the system. So, videophones don't have a them. And a lot of people aren't going to use The value of video calling wasn't obvious, somewhere on a spectrum of disinterested and it wasn't significantly better Video calling got switched off - if it was The prospect of seeing and being back into science fiction - like to talk to felicium addicts, which is basically a month after the VisiTel cover story in more comfortable with home technology and Companies like Mitsubishi and Sony thought it was And they were so, so close to being right - The July '88 issue included an update from the alleviate jail overcrowding in Maryland - 7 people and each day law enforcement could video home. One offender said, "I'm not happy And a New York Times forum titled "Videophone: doctors at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, we'd come to know as telemedicine - and even need to be in isolation for weeks at a time. "The bad news is that Mitsubishi stopped making And about 10 minutes after THAT, all the Picturephones and the Visitels that than a century, were wiped completely And now despite 100 years of skepticism, Alright, it's time to call Matt and it's time pixelated glimpse into the future. Matt's mom is a serious fan of old phones. this sweet one with the giant number she's got a landline, so I set I had to buy a Cell2Jack bluetooth adapter, so landline. I plugged in the adapter's power unit, and then the VisiTel goes into the Cell2Jack. So now I just need to call Matt. Matt: "Hello?" Kevin: Matt! You're not gonna believe what game my mom got me for my birthday. Check this Matt: Oh yeah, I'm comin' over. Tell the bagel bites. I'm sending you my gamer face. Kevin: Oh no. I don't know what like Satan's sonogram. The retrofuture Matt: Alright see ya. The Popular Science article spokeswoman Daisy Ottmann stating and exciting "...only if you believe But... what if you only want the words? See you in the future.