The Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri has a tram system inside all the way to the Let's explore how the the museum underneath, and, of course, the tram My name's Jared. I create 3D animations to show Hit the subscribe button to be just like this one. (upbeat music) The Gateway Arch is the at 192 meters high, It's similar to other structures Space Needle, and These structures are icons for the cities where they are built. Let's take a look at the Missouri is a state located of the United States. The city of St. Louis is The arch is here right Downtown St. Louis is And across the Mississippi The arch has a unique shape. If I take a chain and let it hang down, this is called a catenary curve. Now take that same shape Now it's an inverted catenary curve. This is the shape of the Gateway Arch. It's the shape that will The arch was built between 1963 and 1965, and it costs 13 million US dollars. That's almost 100 million The arch has the same height Over one million people come The arch is resistant to and in high winds, it can So why was the Gateway Arch Let's rewind the clock European colonists started of what is now the United States. Then slowly they started This was termed the Westward Expansion. The city of St. Louis was founded in 1764, shortly after the United This is what it looked like before 1803. St. Louis was one of the famous last stops to gather supplies before making In other words, it was You see where I'm going here? In the 1940s, they held The idea was to build a monument to honor the legacy of Westward Expansion. Out of 172 entries, they chose a Finnish-American architect. He had the most unique He decided to build an arch that would represent the That is why it has the name Gateway Arch. Sadly, Eero Saarinen passed away before construction even But today, he is still honored There was a lot of criticism Can we really build something like this? How would it look against It's almost similar to the Not everybody wanted it at first. Nonetheless, plans moved So how do you build an arch like this? Most buildings are built on the inside first and then This time, what we have is different than a typical building. The Gateway Arch has what's What this means is that there The metal on the outside, That's what's holding it up Building a support structure would've been enormous So instead, they would build upwards and then meet in the middle. Easier said than done. In 1961, they started digging 18 meters deep, which is They laid concrete and in several layers. This provides a solid base Construction of the arch The pieces were built in And that word equilateral, it just means that all three Each triangular section on the exterior and carbon The metal work was done in steel mills in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and then shipped all the The triangular pieces were so they were assembled in separate pieces and shipped by rail. There was a railway that went right by the construction site. The triangular pieces were right next to where they There are 142 of these triangular pieces. Where they're joined together, and they numbered all of these. At the very top is station zero. Then going down each and all the way down to station The triangular pieces and smallest at the very top. Once a piece was ready, and gently placed in position. As each new piece was placed, The welds needed to be so good that it acted as one to support the weight of the arch. Then the reinforced concrete to make the arch legs stronger. There were two teams working together to build the sides of the They had post-tensioning rods going down the sides of each leg. These helped to hold the legs upright as they were built higher and curved inwards towards each other. These cranes could only for the first six pieces, 22 meters tall. After that, the engineers planned to use a very unique solution. The tracks were built on and this is called a Creeper Derrick. It's basically a mobile crane that will travel up the side so it lifts new pieces Once there are four we can bolt in another piece of track. Now it's able to move up to a new height and continue working. This was really the first time that something like this had been done. These platforms can be tilted in place. That way they can stay level as they move up the sides of the arch. These letters on the side, PDM, that stands for Pittsburgh-Des one of the contracted companies The concrete being poured help but it was only needed to They soon reached a point would cause the arch to collapse inward. This means it was time The two creeper derricks Once in place, this supported each side so they could continue building the arch, another 21 pieces on each side. The construction work that the legs met perfectly at the top. If they were off by just a little bit, that would've been a Thanks to the engineers, After two and a half there was one more piece There were thousands of to watch this crowning event, and the gap for the less than a meter. They knew this would happen, but it was still a challenge to deal with. The gap needed to be almost for the keystone to fit. Part of the problem was causing the stainless steel to expand. The south leg of the arch so they decided to spray to cool it down. And as part of the original plan, hydraulic jacks were put with just enough room to fit the keystone. After a few tense moments, the and the workers were The engineers had done their job and the arch was now complete. The stabilizing truss could be removed and the arch could now It took the better part of a year to slowly bring the creeper derricks down, cleaning and polishing the stainless steel on the arch as they went. The arch was finished, but When Eero Saarinen designed the arch, he wanted visitors to be but he didn't know how Whatever system they used needed to be able to and it couldn't distort We want the arch's shape to be unaffected and have that smooth look To make things harder, the legs get thinner as The tram had to be Many industry experts at the time were stumped by this problem. How about we build an elevator? The problem is that an elevator and we need something that curves. Okay. How about an escalator? These don't go straight up and down. You might make that work at first, but you'd need to build several of them and that gets expensive. The main inspiration for the design actually came from the Ferris wheel. This can move people around quite well, and they're always right side around the Ferris wheel. This same idea can also be used to transport people up Dick Bowser is the engineer Instead of individual seats, the design called for and then put all the cars together and use cables to lift them. This tram system needed to be small enough to fit on one side of the arch leg. This leaves enough room on the other side. When the tram is at the bottom, the cars are below the tracks. Let's see what happens at the other end. And when it gets to the top, Notice as it travels, the cars The exact same idea that Each tram car has just about the same size as the Not a lot of room inside. Passengers can travel up There are eight cars on each side. This allows for more than to ride the tram to the top. I'll show you more about the tram system, but let's back up a bit. Today, the arch is a Let me show you a few This whole grassy area was called the Jefferson In 2018, it was renamed to the There are more than eight to explore along the Mississippi River. This is called the Grand Staircase, and there is also a train track that runs underground For parking, it's at the Stadium East Parking Garage. They even give a discount if Then you can walk to Now, this whole area If you visited the arch prior to 2018, this will look a little different. The entrance is here, which leads right This is the lobby. The information desk is here, and there is a life-size This way you can see what it will be like to ride to the top of the arch. Some people find it a bit claustrophobic. The ticket counter is here, and there's more to do than just the tram. You can buy tickets to virtual reality theater, and even a one-hour riverboat cruise along the Mississippi River. The museum inside is free, and you don't need a ticket for this. But either way, everyone going inside must go through the security line. There's a giant map of the and you can see some of the to travel to the West. Walk a little farther There are six areas to each focused on different aspects of the history of the arch. For example, this area focuses and this area focuses on and how that's changed over the years, and this area focuses on the design competition, and even a miniature model of the tram. If you bought a ticket then you'll go inside the Tucker Theater to see how the arch was built. The Arch Store is here. Arch Cafe is here if you're hungry. And in the center is a life size model of the keystone piece of the arch. Remember that the keystone was during the construction of the arch. There are even displays the view of what it Once you have your ticket, you'll need to make your way You'll walk through a hallway and then down some stairs to get to the loading area. Your ticket will show you which door you need to wait in front of. Since the 1960s, they've to modernize the arch. It takes four minutes to get to the top and only three minutes to get back down. With both trams operating, it can transport 80 people at a time. The doors open and you can make to the observation deck. There's room for about 100 people up here. It's 192 meters high, which is about the height On the very top of the arch The keystone of the arch is right here. There is also a metal time inside of the keystone, as long as the arch is standing. There are 16 windows on If you look out the you get a good view of downtown St. Louis. The reason these windows are so small is because larger windows There's limited time at the You'll be asked to come back down on the same tram car that you came up in. Note that the stairways are but these stairs are for At the bottom, you'll go up these stairs and then back into the common areas. When you're ready to exit the arch, you've got a few options. You can go back through the museum and out the same way you came in, or you can exit right here then out the doors, and you'll come right out at the base of one of the arch legs. My name's Jared. Click here to visit Patreon and see behind-the-scenes content. Your support helps to grow the team so we can hopefully make Thanks for watching, and (upbeat music)