We may grow up, but our childhood dreams Deep in the forest of Sumatra, Indonesia, not for fun, but out of necessity. Handling this vehicle is not for everyone. We've been using this train This railroad was built by Dutch settlers The original locomotives have disappeared, The rails, That might be an overstatement. The whole line is in a pitiful state, you've got to make a living, after all. Masinis and others came up with the idea to reactivate the line. I bought the engine, everything else I made myself. This gearbox comes from a Chinese minibus. I connected the engine and it drives the wheels. The engine is archaic but practical. It enables farmers to reach distant fields and transports goods which is that of the gold miners. All this at 30 kilometers an hour. It's not fast, but fast enough, Most of the rails are bent, so Masinis has solved the problem It's very easy to drive. If you can drive this, A car driver The secret is to know the tracks well. Otherwise, you'll have big problems. The key is knowing the track Indeed! A landslide has swept away these tracks. It's the rainy season, and it's been raining non-stop The rails are propped up and yet... I've derailed here before and tipped over. What we see here is still okay. I've seen worse. A little further down the line, It's a small but sturdy train regardless of the weather. Thankfully so, because its rickety rails The Indonesian archipelago made up of over 17,000 islands, Sumatra being one of the largest. It's home to hard-working people, work hard, play hard. The race is dangerous. It's packed with spectators, Sumatra's humid climate but they're also its worst enemy. Multinationals for the profitable palm oil business. If you don't anticipate the fruit might land on your head. Despite the region's enormous agricultural the population remains highly isolated. Some large towns so in the monsoon season... I don't have any tools in my bus, There are large stones The tribes don't seem to understand The Mentawai are part They fight for their home and for us too. The logging companies but we chased them away. Why? If the logging companies come back, We'll all perish. During the monsoon season, the air is saturated Come rain or shine, and engines are a bit like cats. Go on, push, everyone! They don't like water. It's the middle of the rainy season, Yesterday, the bus was submerged in water. The water came up to the hood. While Rudy's minibus his windscreen wipers clearly but not to worry, I can still see the road. I've got good eyes. It's my job to get the passengers I can't stop working. This is the only bus I hope we get there on time. You'll see that there's mud everywhere. The road looks like porridge. Simply put, it is strewn The whole road is covered with earthy jam. That goes on for 80 kilometers. The six passengers This part of the road is bumpy. I can't drive too fast, or the passengers will be thrown It's really uncomfortable. We'd rather be on a freeway. It shakes so much that my stomach hurts. It's very exhausting. I'm going to need a massage That's in a minibus The door opened by itself. All I can do is laugh Regardless, I have to work every day That's EUR10 per trip, no matter how many hours The same journey in the dry season but four times as long Rudy still hopes to arrive before dark, but for that, Gigantic holes block his way, Everybody out, come on! By reducing the weight of the minibus. There's water everywhere. It's the same every year. We always travel in these conditions. It's been 15 years since the authorities but they are nowhere to be seen. It's very muddy and deeper than I thought. I'll try not to get stuck. You've seen the state The government needs to fix this road. First, he relied on his talent. Then he hoped and prayed. All in vain. The mud pit keeps him prisoner. While mud may be a driver's nightmare, Mud means rice, At the end of each harvest, farmers like Maklanu and his children the only race of its kind in the world. This tradition isn't going to end with me. I've learned from my father, The two most beautiful animals like top athletes. They're even put on a specific diet This is our secret recipe It's a mixture of herbs, It's like a doping product We also rub its skin with spiced water to heat up the muscles. This year, on the back of his best bull. A victory would mean a lot but above all, in terms of money, as the offspring I bought these bulls for EUR600 each. Now they're worth almost EUR2,700. It's going to be a tough battle. The best animals in the region The race will take place here. It's dangerous for the cows. They can hurt themselves, Get ready for the start! The bulls are led by jockeys. They don't ride on their backs but are pulled while standing up Riders, take your place in the arena! We need to hold the cow's tail firmly and keep our feet securely The most complicated thing for the jockeys Otherwise, they can each go their separate ways. The aim of the race so most of the time, They are scored on their speed, style, It's a tough jury who awards the points. The public chooses the strongest bull, Betting money Pacu Jawi is a tradition for us. It's like a ceremony. Those of you in the back, The race is dangerous. It's packed with spectators, and sometimes, It would be surprising To make them speed up, Maklanu and his son My son is the jockey in the black cap. For me, it's become difficult and for a jockey, -Will you bite the cow's tail? Some people don't. -Why do they do that? Maklanu's son is confident, he won't get to tattoo Maybe he bit a bit too hard It all comes down to dosage, apparently. Here's the winner, with its powerful speed just the opposite of the railway line that leads to a mining village It's an indispensable lifeline, or rather, a line of death The last mining company in the 1980s, and since then, except by a few brave locals Without the rails, the gold miners These tubes This train is vital. Without it, the inhabitants of the village Everything arrives in it. I can load up to 1.5 tons of goods On the way, the greatest danger It's happened to me before, The Lebong Tandai gold mine That's a five-hour journey which hardly ever happens. As you see there, the mechanic is shaking the wagon which are completely warped. He has to push to prevent derailing. It's a really tough job. To keep moving, one must be clever In some places, I'm making temporary rails Don't you have anything to repair it? No, just these little pieces of wood. It's unbelievable, but the wood Ironically, It's not enough The train is really important for us. That's how we can move our farm produce. It's the only solution. There's no other means of transport. Without Masinis and his motorized wagon, farmers would have to walk with heavy loads on their backs. The driver is paid EUR10 per trip, a rate that falls far short he constantly faces, especially since the homemade engine We need to tighten the bolts. Otherwise, we risk losing this part. The wheels have moved backward. Masinis has two rules Firstly, because every problem has its solution. Secondly, to be brave. Otherwise, All the bridges he crosses and have been eaten away by rust, but the mechanic My worst accident The wagon was completely destroyed. Fortunately, I was the only one on board. I had dropped off This is the bridge Guillaume, our director, to get a shot from the front, This scrap heap, is 150 meters long. A part of it and has been patched up The landslide forced us The village was cut off from the world, There was hardly anything left to eat. Not to mention He manages to get through once again, It took him five hours The railway line stops here because a new landslide Fortunately, a motorized wagon is waiting for them After all, The poorest people in the region For EUR3 a day, I have no choice, I've done this for three years, Staying at home makes me sick. I've made 15 round trips, I carried almost 600 kilograms in total. The last ten kilometers of the line The hours lost along with the time it took push the driver of the second wagon If it wasn't for the gold mine no one would risk their life. Gold makes people it is not the only metal Indonesia abounds in precious metals, and each one The residents of Bangka Island Their island is slowly dying. Before the tin rush took hold of Bangka, The island wasn't yet full of holes. We planted cassava and black pepper. However, According to a local NGO, three-quarters which corresponds to one million hectares. What's so special about this mineral? When mixed with lead, tin is used to weld the components For our mobile phones, for instance, It may not sound like much, the number of smartphones it's an incredible amount. Since more and more of it is needed, The contrast between the turquoise water and the wooden platform Nature is the least of Hartley's The old fishermen see only one side of it. When the price of tin is high, which is what they used to earn Talk about motivation. Each dive lasts three to four hours, I attach the oxygen hose to my mask. There's fear in my stomach when I dive. The air compressor can fail at any time while I'm down there The dive is not deep. It's between five and ten meters. Hartley's hose is connected which is then lifted on the platform. Between land and sea, This inexhaustible workforce the world's second-largest producer exporting 80,000 tonnes of tin every year. Tin is black, and sand is white. This black mineral is what we look for. To sift it, miners use the same method Tin is heavier than sand. The ore sticks to the mats, but we can't see it Like on land, As the sand falls back into the water, which eventually suffocate. A disrupted ecosystem According to geological studies, in ten years' time, That's far too long. It'll be too late to save Bangka Island. In Indonesia, yet the infrastructure By the way, Rudy and his cab The big stones are blocking the wheels. However, Rudy is lucky. A bus from his company arrives The chain will get us out now. Okay, good. Good job. The passengers are ahead on foot. I hope they're not too far away. They are, and they've walked quite a bit, five kilometers, Everyone's worried We're still a long way I think we'll get there It's 4:00 p.m., they've only covered The two buses are now traveling in convoy This is going to be difficult. Look, the truck is stuck over there. Once again, the men have to get their hands We must help one another If someone is stuck, Otherwise, no one else will get through. We'll be there in three hours. Rudy is very optimistic, especially as the truck traffic They go around the palm farms to collect the fruit There's a lot of traffic on this road. Look at all these trucks. They're huge, They use it very often. It can't go on like this. They transport sometimes more than 300 tons in one day. In fact, Indonesia It's an unsavory first place since the country on the planet. Eighty percent to make way for palm tree plantations. Ardin is one of the 17 million people Harvesting takes place all year round, and the fruit grows rapidly The job is exhausting, and mechanized harvesting The most economical method A cluster of nuts It's a dangerous job. You need the right technique If you don't anticipate there's a risk We're paid by the weight we pick. Between the four of us, We sell them for EUR6 a ton, so we earn EUR6 a day. Ardin and his associates seven days a week. I don't know It depends on God and my age. By the time I'm 60 or 70, I'm sure I won't have the strength Farmers aren't the only ones The disappearance of the forest and women who live there Before you go hunting, Firstly, you're not allowed or you risk getting hit with a machete. You're also not allowed otherwise, it'll rain. Lastly, you're not allowed or one of us will die. Those are the rules of the forest. It's important Aman Laulau is Mentawai. He and his tribe The forest means everything to them. It feeds and heals them. The old chief knows the healing properties and there are quite a few of them. Of the 40,000 species 30,000 grow in Indonesia, When someone is sick, I have to go into the forest There are certain rules I must follow to find the right plants This ancestral knowledge from generation to generation, The fruit that I need is called sikukuet. Where will I find this fruit if the logging companies I'm afraid that all my knowledge I'll just take a pinch of this one This medicine will cure stomach aches The important thing Modern food doesn't suit them. The Mentawai love the pulp You'd better not be very hungry, Sago is our staple food. It's the equivalent of rice for us. We also use it It takes us a month or two Sago has virtually no nutritional value, It is, most of all, The whole clan lives in a huma, Fishing and hunting In the 1950s, the state tried and forced them to adapt to modern life. Today, this program has been abandoned, but many Mentawai [Indonesian spoken audio] Aman Laulau's clan escaped, The logging companies but we chased them away. Why? It's because everything we need If the logging companies come back, We'll all perish. Indigenous communities account or 25% of the Indonesian population. As for their ancestral forest territory, which makes up The future of Indonesia's green lung, so precious for the planet, However, for the Mentawai, the battle against forest enterprises As night falls, Ahmad tries his very best which exist mostly in name. This is the most damaged part We can derail at any time. Indeed. The wheels came off the rails. They've got ten kilometers left and they're not even close At this spot, they'll have to patch up There were no rails left at all, Provisional, that's the problem. Nothing is really ever repaired. Only their willpower On the road to the town of Labura, Rudy and his passengers Everyone is exhausted. Having set off early in the morning, they've covered 65 kilometers and still have another 20 to cover. As with the mine train, The passengers must use their muscles Rudy stops again, It's worse. There are at least ten trucks A vehicle has overturned We must wait here, It's not really the overturned truck but the driver and his mechanics. All the fruits fell We must pick them all up. Thousands of palm nuts litter the ground. If they don't pick them up, the driver and his crew Another truck but Rudy and the drivers To do so, they'd have to drive Some take a chance but are unsuccessful. Go on straight, go! The only solution and use them to fill the hole. That's good news. A truck is carrying Three hours later, I'm tired, hungry, and sleepy. One last push, and the lights of Labura It's 11:00 p.m., and it's taken them 12 hours We've finally arrived safe and sound. God bless. It's hard to tell Either way, prayers abound, Take that piece of wood We'll try to push the trailer. Go for it! The gates to the Lebong Tandai mine All in all, it took them over ten hours suffering and taking risks The 200 people who live in the mine to become rich. A beautiful utopia The Dutch, followed by the Australians, At the time of the big mining companies, hundreds of kilos Today, However, people are happy. When you're a farmer you must buy your equipment. Here, at least, we can use the old equipment Like the bridges on the railroad, their equipment Here, the gold is hidden in the rock, Every flake is hard-earned. Look, this stone contains some gold. Right here. There's not much, but it's something. The mines are almost running dry, but in other regions, Indonesia is affected It has just added to a long list a metal indispensable This new rush in addition to the deforestation and logging. The scale of the damage is enormous, Indonesia is beginning to realize that it is endangering of biodiversity after Brazil.