Michelle Obama was both the First Lady and She might be speaking to students, military somehow she appears to be talking specifically her pearls of wisdom. Born into a middle-class family on the southside success through hard work and relentless dedication, her life. As a former lawyer and Ivy-league graduate, for women's rights, education, equality, gun As she prepares to move out of the White House how far she's come. Here's a look Michelle Obama's stunning transformation Humble beginnings Michelle Obama might be a fashion icon now, she grew up sharing a one-bedroom, one-bathroom Her dad was a city-pump operator, and her shared tight quarters within a bungalow with Obama once said of her early life: &quot;Everything that I think about and do is shaped apartment in the bungalow my father worked Though they weren't wealthy, her parents did traditions, like taking Sunday drives and Yes she can Michelle's parents encouraged her and her excelled immediately, even skipping the second Michelle was chosen for her local gifted and Chicago's first academic magnet school, which When she told her high school teachers she of doubters. But not only did the National Honors Society also graduated cum laude in 1985 and then University in 1988. The boss Fresh out of Harvard, Michelle landed a job and soon after, she was put in charge of mentoring become her husband, the then-26-year-old Barack The eventual President joked about his first &quot;I remember being struck by how tall and beautiful She, I have since learned, was pleasantly quite as enormous as they looked in the photo He asked multiple times, and eventually she which they shared their first kiss, and the Breaking ground After dating for three years, the Obamas wed Shore Cultural Center in Chicago. But back when the bride was growing up in then-Country Club was segregated. She later revealed in their vows: &quot;Barack didn't pledge riches, only a life On that promise he delivered.&quot; Mom first Years before she moved into the White House, Senate, Obama made a point of negotiating young girls. She shared her tough negotiating strategy for her last job before becoming the First interview with her and said: &quot;'This is what I have: two small kids. My husband is running for the U.S. Senate. I will not work part time. I need flexibility. I need a good salary. I need to be able to afford babysitting. .... I will get the job done, I can work hard I was very clear. And he said yes to everything.&quot; Making history When Barack Obama became President, he and the first black First Lady. She also opened the doors of the White House felt they had a responsibility to make their She also established the first White House War II, complete with beehives that house As an outspoken advocate for nutrition awareness be a good teaching tool to promote healthy Salary sacrifice Michelle Obama made a pretty penny in her husband won the Presidency, and while her receives no such stipend for her work. Experts have estimated, though, that for all be right around what she was earning before. &quot;What I've come to find out is you don't sweat Fashionista Michelle Obama's legacy for championing healthy be sure, but she'll also likely be remembered the years. Her ability to make even the most simple items public, and her swanky dress styles have become She's also helped shine a spotlight on some Tracy Reese, and her willingness to show off made her a supreme bit of fit-spiration for Madame President? After her inspiring speeches on the campaign in 2016, there have been many who've expressed a move for the President spot. She's consistently denied any interest in only confirms her ability to reach the hearts people, worldwide. And as the Obama administration comes to a wisdom, timeless grace, and great sense of will be hard to replicate by any incoming Thanks for watching! Click the The List icon to subscribe to our Plus check out all this cool stuff we know