This episode is sponsored by Audible. In the future humanity may come to reside have lower gravity than Earth. We may find native life on those worlds or But what would those adaptations be? There is a fairly common assumption in science or on spaceships would tend to grow tall and would tend to be squat and muscular. On initial inspection this seems to make sense. Trees have evolved to reach up high to get plants, and are limited in height largely which are obviously reduced in lower-gravity, get taller if there was less gravity. Of course they also need to be strong enough that they can't grow as tall. When we consider places like Mars, with its that those aren't actually very strong for is so thin. If the atmosphere is thinner, as we often even easier for a tree to grow tall. However, thin atmospheres are not a guaranteed a tree a very good analogy for an animal let Our catalogue of planets besides Earth has a thousand times what it was in my childhood, distant suns little more than vague blobs planets that are vastly more massive than It's easiest to detect the bigger worlds they pass in front of their sun, make their change the gravitational lensing effects when But smaller planets may prove far more numerous And so far we really only have Mars, Venus, with less gravity and obviously none host There are four basic factors that make a planet High gravity holds it in place, high temperature a little at a time, and geomagnetic fields But remember that an atmosphere is generally weight gases are easier to hold onto than Venus illustrates this very well, because of these factors--lower gravity, high temperature, yet is has a thicker denser atmosphere than To explain how low gravity works on Venus, What If is a science show here on YouTube Well when low and high molecular weight gasses but the high weight gasses aren't moving This means, the escape velocity, which is gravity well, is the same for any molecule are needed to break out of it. Earth actually loses little bits of elemental but it manages to hold onto heavier elements But Venus has lost those gases and holds onto dioxide, trioxide and some nitrogen. So in theory, a low-gravity planet could have have to be composed of heavier gases than A magnetic field would definitely help keep it's not completely necessary. Thanks Peter. And Folks, make sure to check the link in Back to low gravity... Given the timelines involved, a planet that going to have a pretty thick and stable atmosphere it. There's no real reason it would have a thin enough to permit surface water. Moreover, we can't really assume our solar is bigger than most stars and also rather Many stars will be far more volatile, while dangerous bands of radiation that would tend For that matter, under lower atmospheric pressure, more water vapor in the air that can be broken lost. Whereas if the atmosphere is higher pressure, You also need more air on low-gravity worlds lower gravity. Pressure is the cumulative result of weight so the same quantity of air on a lower gravity pressure. We would also expect that atmosphere loss more and more air it goes faster. The pressure drops and the oceans evaporate can travel farther in the thinner air without so you lose more pressure and lose air faster. Add to that, hotter planets are nearer their solar wind. So too, they're more likely to become tidally slow down as a result, and it's those big, those magnetospheres, if that weakens, they So we do indeed have reason to think low-gravity and be less likely to have an atmosphere by but we also can't assume that's a hard Large Moons around gas giants might be shielded parent world, for instance. Worlds around less volatile suns might get Planets might get hit more often by comets and so on. They will be less likely overall to have thick also likely to vastly outnumber those bigger worlds with oxygen-nitrogen atmospheres are by raw numbers. As I mentioned a moment ago, Venus is hot, less gravity than Earth, yet possesses a very heavier carbon dioxide. Beyond not wanting to assume life definitely a world heavy in carbon dioxide might retain warm farther from its sun, as carbon dioxide Many other permutations of atmospheric composition and needless to say this only applies to worlds and lesser planets will have oceans beneath We'll focus on the liquid water under an Now this all assumes a natural setup, when keep an atmosphere even on our own moon simply it. And it's easy enough to do too, you don't this and it's far easier to simply create such a moon or planet, as we discussed doing It's a big task to be sure, but less than that much power, and is far easier than trying of megatons of atomic bombs down there, as For comparison, it's like deciding your wall or hanging tarps to block the wind, versus to make a new mountain arise to block that And of course you can always just go the construction of domes to hold air in, what we call para-terraforming. It sounds like quite a project too but it So too, bringing in the occasional comet to hitting to avoid a big impact, allows you it if it's leaking a bit too much. And since it is mostly leaking hydrogen, and most abundant materials in the Universe, you're As to oxygen, it is the third most abundant are overflowing in it, tied up in those rocks, abundant material of those places. You can easily remove it from those rocks a tiny part of the total mass of planets like Needless to say this only is allowed under to inhabit with our technology and industry, phenomena that might allow it to be natural. As an example, planets around red dwarf stars, have their own robust Kuiper Belts or Oort common in this Universe due to hydrogen and entering in close would have a shorter path impacting the planet, which also takes up in that solar system since it's more compressed So they might get hit by comets much more way. Now as to life living there, however it arose, Again it's likely to have a decently thick assume the natives need giant lungs, or that want without fear the wind will knock them What about the critters though? Are they more tall and willowy from the low Perhaps but we have to ask why they would A tree has a reason to get taller. Tall is only advantageous in nature because reach food that's higher up, and there's as we used to. As to thinner bones and less muscle, one might Birds have thinner bones to make them lighter That comes at a price of being less sturdy We need thick skeletons to support our mass but also to support us against inertia of by gravity, just weight. Nature also cooked up ways for critters to bones, as large dinosaurs often had. Peter, are there any alternatives? Well, a cool thing you'll find on a low bones, as well as more muscles compared to This is due to your body weighing less. It will still take effort to alter your enertia to carry way more mass. Heh, think of how cool you'll look when We can look at Megafauna in the past who also If we wanted to achieve similar pressure than would significantly impact the weather, as Flight is easier in lower gravity as well. Though flight mostly has to do with speed flying about. Ew, gross. Since gravity would affect swinging and jumping living in trees, engaged in branch hopping These wouldn't just be tiny little squirrels The creatures living in these trees could The reason why they aren't up there right predators to be in up in tall trees, as it's With this low gravity we could also see creatures However, this low gravity world could hurt These creatures rely on the air being thicker maneuverability, even in lower gravity. The new insects we find on a lower gravity only smaller, or they might be microscopic. But what would happen to these insects if Well you can check out our episode &quot;What if right here. Back to you Isaac. That part about bones having air pockets in the opposite effect on tree height too, on As we said earlier hydrogen and helium escape play a role in retaining gas. What's more a bigger planet is likely to those gases. Such being the case, we might see higher gravity use of biochemistry to separate the lighter bladders of lifting gas to let them grow far as a leaf analogy. Such plants would still be vulnerable to wind in wind and storms then re-inflate. Of course something like that could have evolved on if the atmosphere's composition is rather types. Virtually all of our atmosphere is diatomic same mass, only a 14% difference, as opposed the latter masses 22 times as much as the If it had larger portions of gases that differed approaches to weight might show up, creatures sucked in the air and retained the lighter We do after all see it in regard to oceanic ratio changes to alter their buoyancy. Indeed it's possible you might not simply and treetop, but an entire biosphere layer world was maintaining its atmosphere in large tectonic activity, you might have a good deal floating up there to maximize light and feed both nutrient and buoyancy. In lower gravity it's easier for wind to air too. But speaking of dirt, we're not limited Much of our own ecology is beneath the ground, and density of the dirt. You might have deeper topsoil just from a things. Such worlds might have far more caves too. The Moon has many large underground lavatubes, they don't collapse as easily, and it is up tunnels in lower gravity. You might have far more burrowing creatures What we're seeing though is that the gravity is setup, still leaves a very broad ranges Taken as a whole, I don't think we can make to be skinny and large, though large seems Just in this case large might also be musclebound You might also tend to see more internal storage motion still takes energy and is mass-dependent energy just standing, you burn more calories and that's purely a function of weight. But big also moves slow, even if it's got very agile, it's very hard to turn on a compared to a mouse. As I said, many of the planets, and most large will be smaller than Earth. We'd expect to find more worlds with less I suspect life, at least surface based land-life, a bit higher but it could be that the larger them being less likely to host atmospheres. But I also mentioned that while we were focusing we would have a lot of such worlds where the like Jupiter's Moon Europa. Such worlds would be scanty and meager in to run an ecology without the Sun, but they regardless. It's also a good reminder that our oceans tidal forces. Pressure is a function of weight above you you might see quite an expansion in oceanic Now, the top thin layer of water where light the action would take place, with much beneath marine snow, descending from that top level. That might see some interesting adaptations Near the shore we often see plants that grow but reach up to the top for light. Out in the deeper sea things either live on but little nutrients. In lower gravity that shore-zone where they expanded as plants can grow taller and reach shore. Possibly a great deal as traits that improved favored by evolution. You might see plants growing rather tall in much deeper. However, nutrients that are heavier than water tend to see more abundant ocean life. Most of Earth is covered in deep sea, life the shores or inland because sunlight is up diffused into the water near the surface. If it's easier for nutrients floating in biomass would arise in those areas away from Combined with the lower pressure, this might clogged with life on the surface so that you Hard to say of course, and this is all very more ecological options than we might initially dusty, dry worlds of low gravity. Of course that is very dependent on having once one of those begins dissipating it probably and faster. Such things would still be on geological timelines, oceans diminished. Until the early 20th century, we thought Mars And while better telescopes have revealed surface fissures, it also appears that Mars Hopefully someday soon, we'll get to do to see how long ago it was and how quickly tilt. There's a lot of books set on Mars of course, colonizing it and bringing life there, those life was already there, but diminishing, that We see one such example in C.S. Lewis's "Out of the Silent Planet", Book of the Month. C.S. Lewis is best known for his classic fantasy along with his friend J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings helped breathe But over a decade before Narnia he wrote the Elwin Ransom, is said to have been modeled I happened to have gotten an omnibus edition fiancee Sarah, who promptly borrowed it to the audiobook version instead, which to be to tales anyway. Unsurprisingly it inspired today's episode. While the science is of course dated and never Lewis's strong point anyway, the first book and the life that emerged there, the culture of colonization of other worlds. Audible has an amazing catalog of audiobooks month: 1 audiobook and 2 exclusive Audible including access to news, original audio shows, can listen to your audiobooks anywhere on left off, they're great for commuting, running You can start listening today with a 30-day Choose 1 Audiobook and 2 Audible Originals Just visit the link in the episode description, 500-500. So we have our monthly livestream coming up Time, and then we'll move into April's that might be in the cards in the coming decades. Then two weeks from now we'll flip that be like if Technology came to a stand still, Stagnation." Don't forget to check out the video "What What If and subscribe to their channel and of course don't forget to hit the like enjoyed today's episode, and remember we've got our monthly Livestream Until then, thanks for watching, and have a great week!