- You know in cold weather, in full winter. I like to do the very classic, old French dish we call And this is one of those A kind of very comforting, Thing you do at home. You can do that ahead too. And we do that with a piece of meat, which I have here. That we are going to marinate in red wine, you know. And the marination in red It can be done in different ways. In that case here, I'm about that piece of As you can see it's a and the first thing that we want to do, is to put it to brown And again, I will explain the use of the pressure cooker before. When you take it out of the liquid, you know, dry it out. You can dry it out with your hand this way or with a paper towel. And we want to put it in And now, what I have here. I am going to show it to you. Is a mixture of carrot, onion, black peppercorn, herb and so forth. This is what we call the marinade. You know, in France what It's when you have enough liquid, so that the whole thing Instead of maceration where you have only a little bit of liquid, like if you macerate fruit with a bit of Grand Marnier or whatever, it's just moist. This is the marinade and We have all kind of vegetables. So this, we are going to And for the time being, I wanted to show you where It can come from the butcher, just as I have it here, which is called cryovac. That is in a plastic where all the air has been sucked out of it. And this is a piece of You know what we call the under blade. It's a very, very good and quite tender. In our type of cooking what we want to do is to remove the fat from it. And here, as you see, and under the layer of fat, you have a layer of what we call the silver skin, you know. You can even remove but it's not really necessary It's really sinew. And it give. You see that what we call the silver skin, and that will give some you can remove a little bit So that piece here, is on that big shoulder blade, you And that piece is also used by the butcher as what we call the butcher steak If I cut it across, you which in New York and on the called the chicken steak. What we do, we take this, put it to marinade, and there is different way You can do it hot or cold. And what I have here, I have onion. I have garlic. I have carrot. I have oregano, thyme, crack pepper cracked black pepper, and of course, fresh bay leaf. And here I have a bit of dark soy sauce. I have red wine vinegar, a bit of balsamic vinegar, and of course, red wine. You know, and I have a Which is the Southwest of France. A very deep, rich wine, which is made with the M A L B E C. It's a different type of grape. A bit similar to the to So we're going to put Now, if you really are in a hurry, what you can do is to take with the liquid, bring it to a boil and put it boiling hot, That's what we call a hot marinade. And the hot marinade is going to permeate right through the meat If you have time, like you have here, you take your time and you and leave it overnight. Actually, you can even you know, it's fine. We put no salt on it. So what we do, carrot, the carrot, the onion, a head of garlic, a whole head of garlic. You can hit it up on the They go all over the place, of course. But you don't need to Just put that in there. I'll bring that in the center now. We have this, this and that. You know, we do venison this way. Venison is very good this way. A bit more carrot, the bay leaf, and those That we dry out in the microwave oven. You know, it's very good to A bit of deep balsamic vinegar. We want a lot of acidic there. In there, you know? Regular vinegar. A bit of soy sauce, which will give me some color and a bit of intensity of taste, also. I have enough here and finally my red wine, you know? Want to marinate it. Remember that by the time most of the alcohol will be evaporated. So that again, you can cover it with directly inside, you know, so that you have no oxidation in between. And that can macerate for So, what we have here a seared piece of meat. That has started browning And as you can see here, I'm doing that in a pressure cooker. The pressure cooker, is a very nifty piece of equipment, you know? What I have here is a gauge. The pressure will push that gauge up and you will have different color. It goes from yellow, The higher the pressure, And what it does actually, it concentrate. It apply pressure directly As you know, at atmospheric There is enough pressure on the water, the water will boil at one or 212 Fahrenheit. There is a certain As you go in the mountain, the less pressure there is on it. You lose about one degree with 500 feet. So by the time I'm in Colorado Springs, or a place like this. At 8,000 feet, I've lost 16 degrees. That is the water will boil 16 degrees lower than 212. Which at some point, when you cook things like beets or beans, there is not enough heat and the glucose and certain So it has to cook forever. That does the reverse. It applies so much pressure, but it has to come to about 300 degree before the water stops to boil. So it cook very fast and Very good. What we do here after it's brown Remember that it's a You have to follow the We close it here and I put it, not all of them have that little gadget. This is a little gadget to going to release the pressure in it. And some of it, they all But in a slightly different fashion. So look at the manufacturer instructions. And what I have here, of course. I have another one with and what I'm going to do now, because this is cooked enough. I'm going to stop the depressurizing it. So I move that thing, and the pressure will start coming out. And during that time, we're going to work on our dessert. I have some absolutely And it's a very, very easy recipe to do. But I have. Those are big berry, which What I use, you have to use That is a coagulating And that's what I use karen jelly. I have karen jelly here. If you don't have karen jelly, you can use even a But in full summer, if if it very hot, you're I would advise you to mix a little bit of plant gelatin in your jam, you know. So that it coated more around the berry. All you do is to deep your berry so that it's coated all around. And you have to be absolutely sure that you have a very cold plate to put it on top. See that plate is very cold. I put it on top. And when I lift it up, you A little pool of the jam, you know, which is left around. But this the principal, it's easy to do. See there is different You can glaze it with sugar, you know, like a caramel and you dip it. What we call a sugar to it's almost like a At that point, it forms a Another way of glazing it, is to put egg white. dip your berry into egg white, and have to roll them in That's another way. And this is the third way. This is basically in my opinion, the best way of doing it. Because it's so, and the kid You can vary your jam. So, you know, we can decorate this with a little bit of, with some cookie. You know, if you want. Which would be very nice, and even a little bit of edible flowers. Maybe nice around. And you can really do a stunningly, beautiful plate with this. You know, to do that piece you have to have the right cure of meat. And the right cure of meat? Is actually the piece of The under blade. A piece of the chuck. Again, in the shoulder area. Or a piece of the shank. All that are going be very gelatinous, nice piece of meat you want to add. Don't buy a piece of top round. More expansive, and it's going to be dry. Be sure again, that that totally de-pressurized, you know? So otherwise it can be, otherwise, and it can be dangerous. All the pressure cooker work on the same principle, you know? So what we have here, we have a very, oh, I can feel a very tangible piece of meat. Yes, I have to remove it with So it's braised but I say it goes so. It does such a moist piece And of course it reduced a great deal. What we want to do, even though we remove We wanna strain this. You know. That I would use, even put it in another stock off to put. (clank of spoon) Get all my juice out of that, press that a little bit, you know. And look, if there is any If there any fat, and here you press it on one side You know, as much as we can, we want a very very lean piece, very, very lean sauce. But remember that was So what we do there is and bring that here. And we are going to We're going to reboil this in there, and prepare our vegetable now. I have a very concentrated juice here, quite good. So what we have here as garish, to go with our veal. We have the pale onion, We have potato and we have onion. We have mushroom. Those mushrooms are just washed them and I'm going to put because this is the This have been blanched about 10 minutes. So they're just slightly firm. The carrot have been and the onion. So, what we want do first, You want to taste it I think I need a bit of Be very good. And we want to thicken the sauce slightly. And to thicken the sauce, we're going to use the starch here. And this is, we use a potato starch. You can use arrow root or potato starch. And you have this. If you use corn starch, it tends to be a bit too gooey, you know? So that's good. Remember that the starch You can put a bit of water, Because we use wine. We want to use this again you know. The starch is what we call pure starch. It doesn't have to cook it Remember that you cannot put Otherwise the protein will coagulate and you will have nice little dumpling all over the place. So what we want to have here. See you pour a little bit and you look, it will thicken on contact. If you like it here, you stop. Maybe a dash more. That's about it here. Sometime at the end of a roast like that, I put a little splash Just to give it a zip, you know. Then we put the rest of our garnish. Because that with the red wine sauce and that basically would heat up, you know, for a while for Just to get it hot. And if you have to keep what you would want to do is to cover it or keep it in a, in a You know, that type of meat in France? We used to eat that with a spoon. There is certain type of dish, which we have braised And it would serve certain type of game that serve like this with them, with a spoon, because they are so cooked. And it's very good. This one happened to be quite cooked too. So what we want to do here that you have there, you know. And you can see in the that long line is gelatin. This is the center of that I say we have on the shoulder. And with that. As I say, we do the steak that we call chicken steak, you know. Very tender piece of meat My father would love that, you know. This is the type of We're going to present this. You know, in a type of home cooking, it's a nice idea very often Cutting some of the And presenting the whole with the rest of it uncut, there. It's a classic type of, (speaks french) if you want, way of serving That we have gotten away a bit from because of newel cuisine, and serving everything on plate. So I have my garnish here which could be of course, warmed a bit longer. Remember that we are very low fat in it because all we have was a to make it, to brown the meat, you know. This would be your perfect With a bunch of friend. And remember, try to do You know, which would be also a classic way of handling that. I think we need a bit more You see a nice, beautiful You know, the intensity that we have here. From the Medoc, choose your wine. You know, you will notice that some of the wine sometimes will lose a lot of color in the cooking. And it because the pigment Sometime disappeared as it cook. As you see here, I have A little bit, maybe of green And here is our estofado (classical piano music) We're going to start our That is a composed salad. And what I wanna start with In water to bring them to a because we want to crystallize them with a little bit of sugar and cayenne. And when they get wet like that, there it works out better. So they have to come back But we can see the difference already in the color of the water, here. And what we do here very simply, I put them back in there. I put a little bit of oil there and I have a canola oil, like a teaspoon, you know, just a touch. A little dash of salt. And then cayenne, you know, and you'll be surprised, you know? That may seem like a lot but when you cook the it lose a lot of the hotness. This is the principle You know, when you put your - and sugar, of course - when you put your cayenne and saute it, you lose a lot So what we want to do here is to saute it until it caramelize. We want to have a nice I'm going to put that on low. So it doesn't go too fast. Then I'm going to work on the salad. You can use any type of salad you want. But look what we have here. I have what we call We call that 'frizzy' in French. And the 'frizzy' means curly. You know, it's the same thing. What you wanna do is to pick You know, when I was a kid, my father used to plant this salad when they were grown and spreading out, the more they spread, the more they get exposed to He would bring the and attach them with a string. And the whole thing will turn white. Or you put a flower pot and the whole thing turned nice and white. A bit like they do with the cauliflowers. So what I wanna do here a little bit of the part which is a bit too green, outside, you know. This way. And then fold them and cut this in about two inches, you know. Piece like this, and put The same thing here, of course. If there is any damaged Like this part here. And that's it. I can even use the green Even in soup. You know, we do that very often. It's a bit bitter, you know. So certain type of soup goes well with it. I have to saute that, so it doesn't burn. And now when you wash your salad, this is the bottom part you wash them directly in there. It's important to have enough water so that whatever you shake in your salad, if there is any dirt fall to the bottom. So don't wash your salad You have to have water under the salad. After you wash it good, You have to lift it up from the salad that it don't do the mistake of pouring directly in there, because if there is any dirt, it goes back right into it. So that's what we do here. And that I use the base So I can put that back in it and spin it. This is a terrific invention. I tell you, because one of with salad people, is not spin enough. What happen if it's not spin enough? You have like two or left in the salad. And that destroy the sauce The seasoning, you know? So here it's very dry and you can see, I have quite a lot of water So I have that here. And what we want to do is our dressing. This is burning nicely, here. So what we have to do, I think they are crystallized enough. I'll put them here. When that happened, you know. This is the way I wanted them anyway. I like them nice and dark, you know. So we put our dressing, a I have here regular vinegar and I have hazelnut or walnut oil. Those are very flavored oils. So that dressing will be done of walnut oil and about A dash of salt and some pepper in it. I'm ready to taste my salad soon. And I can put it in there. I'm in for four. I need about four cup, And then in addition to that. We are putting an apple I will cut it into little strip. Remember that the same type What we used to call teaspoon salad. So I cut three slice here, three slice on the other side. I leave the skin. I just wash those apple. It's a nice way of cutting it this way I have the core left. Pack that up together And I will have a lot of This, remember that I said used to be binded with mayonnaise. And here, it is a much lighter example of an interpretation of old dishes. You know, Marrion way, you know? I will have the texture of this, the texture of the salad, then texture of the caramelize apple. Caramelize that is. I have the sugar, the sugar turn into a That's what we call will caramelize. If you wanna do this ahead, you know, if you do it ahead, then your best bet to with a dash of citric acid. That is lemon juice on top of it to prevent discoloration here. That's what I have That will prevent your discoloration. And now I can toss my salad, I have my dressing in the bottom. And we want also to put a Now, you know, you don't have to put the cheese if you don't want. But it's a nice addition to it, you know. At the end of the meal. So you have your arrangement of green, Depending on how much green you want. I tend to use my finger. That would be more than enough for one. And we put some apple on top of it. You know, give it the crunch and so forth. Of course, a little or over caramelize, pecan just put it so that the nice side shows, you know, the best. This is a great hors d'oeuvres And finally, if you this is a goat cheese that you can crumble a little bit on top. You don't need much. Half and ounce of cheese And now we have our Which is our salad compose. It is not often nowadays, you know, that we do those long simmering daube de bouef we did today. And it seems that I put so much wine in. And then I did, I put which is less than a bottle. A bottle of wine is three cup and for, you know, a is not that much. Remember that it's done the daube classically had What we call lardons in We are pigs fit. I mean, it was very, very rich. And here we pick up a We even differed it, the sauce at the end. So we have a lie, a nice With it with a very anton taste. Great for a cold winter day. And of course our salad to start. We have all kind of different different color in that salad. Which make it quite And you cannot miss with the finish of those glazed strawberry. Year round, you know, with slice of orange that you glaze with let's say an apricot And with that, we want a glass of wine. And the same wine that we The Cahort wine from A very deep, strong berry, Which is made from the You know, that type of grape that we have in the Southwest of France. Enjoy that meal, just as And do it for your friend. Happy cooking. (tech sound)