One of the things I like about particle physics matter under every experimental condition successful theory the Standard Model of Particle this incredible theory. While the Standard Model covers most of the the strong and weak nuclear forces and the about the force that literally binds the universe The reason for this is simple. Gravity is other known forces. On the size of, say... other forces all have kinda sorta the same 100,000 times weaker than the strong force. Now that last statement probably sounds kind difference, like comparing something, oh, is unfathomably weaker still. It is about- trillion, trillion times weaker than the strong to the size of the visible universe. It's Since gravity is so weak in the quantum world, effect due to gravity in a particle physics was the data from particle physics experiments, reason that we know of gravity is because of the Milky Way or even clusters of galaxies Isaac Newton predicted 350 years ago. It takes to see gravity at all. But I don't want to talk about the gravity or cosmology, but rather I want to talk about very small. But I just told you that at sizes comparable So what the heck am I talking about? Well gravity, even if weak, must apply in thought, but it's true. And, since our best general relativity, the most obvious thing subatomic realm. As an illustrative example, If you do that, you find that Einstein's energy by the emission of gravity waves and prediction using classical electromagnetism well-known, quantum mechanics. This same chain have some kind of quantum nature. Another reason to suspect that gravity must have a quantum theory for the other forces, It is impossible to seamlessly wed a quantum additional evidence that there should exist not be able to write a theory that accurately small. So if we accept the idea of quantum gravity, conclusions we can make that are true for that there should be a particle called a graviton. of electromagnetism predicts that a photon should exist. Now we've never seen a graviton, which means it exists, in order to agree with both Newton's must have certain properties. To have gravity's To be only an attractive force, the graviton which is different from the electron's spin must also be electrically neutral. So this all seems pretty simple. The theory So it would seem that the next step would and I do that sort of thing all the time, Of course, the problem is that gravity is essentially impossible to make a graviton and purposes, there is no chance that we'll we might imagine building with the technology There is one small possibility we might see if the universe is much different than it dimensions beyond the familiar three, it's even possibly find massive gravitons as well. small extra dimensions existing. Frankly, If you're interested, take a look at my So, getting back to the more basic idea of progress on the subject? Well, yes, and no. There have been a couple quantum gravities And, by successful, I mean that they are still says that the very smallest building blocks This theory has been very popular for many not making testable predictions. If you're on the topic. Another idea that's been floating around The mathematics of this theory is pretty complex networks," but the basic idea is that there Now, this is a pretty bizarre idea. It means cut an object a meter long into two objects size, you literally no longer can make smaller The physical dimensions of this smallest space physics experiments, although they might have of very distant astronomical objects. The far there is no evidence that confirms these So there is no confirmation of quantum gravity, consequences that will change how you think of black holes and the universe right before If you have even a casual knowledge of physics, that before the Big Bang all of the matter point with zero size. Similarly, the center mass of the parent star compressed to zero These tiny concentrations of enormous mass are unphysical. They don't exist. If a theory theory has been pushed hard enough that it Now I don't- I do not- want you to think or that the Big Bang never happened. Nor do of matter in tiny, tiny, volumes aren't don't send me some anti-relativity email. But what I am telling you is that as matter that gravity becomes more important and that Quantum gravity is what protects against a that we will never understand the details of a black hole until someone works out a So I hope that this conversation gives you quantum theory of gravity. Realistically, but it's a fascinating topic and one that a theory of everything.