Sponsored by SurfShark VPN. Click on the link in the description and enter months for FREE! With the growing popularity of solar and wind, energy source: nuclear. It can be a divisive topic, but there's a out massive, expensive nuclear plants that's What are they? What are the benefits? And do they really address the downsides of I'm Matt Ferrell. Welcome to Undecided. When the word nuclear comes up, most people But, even though there is a scary history for establishing a reliable carbon-free energy We've been producing nuclear energy since to the Soviet power grid in 1954 . It's widely energy source that can be used to support and solar. Some countries, like France (71.7%), Slovakia rely on nuclear to produce electricity. And it accounted for 10.3% of the world's However, that number was higher in the past. In 1996, nuclear accounted for 17.7% of the GW of new nuclear generation capacity came PV and 59.2 GW of wind. What's caused that sizable decrease? And why aren't we building out more nuclear? The major events of Three Mile Island, Chernobyl, made people fear nuclear energy and stalled But, the safety threat and nuclear waste aren't out in the cold by governments and investors. The intermittency of renewables needs to be Nuclear power plants could be a stable and they're complex, expensive, and usually take significant delays during construction . The one report gave a cost estimate for a new other hand, the average cost of natural gas and the construction of those come in around power plants are more appealing to a utility, as nuclear. According to the World Nuclear Industry Status (LCOE) from nuclear power rose from around In comparison the LCOE of solar and wind reached The report stated: "What is remarkable about continue to fall due to incremental manufacturing despite over half a century of industrial . The nuclear industry needs an escape route attractive, reduce construction time, but standards that are needed. That escape route has been to invest in new I have another video about Thorium Reactors challenges, but the other trend I've seen of you, has been around Small Modular Reactors It promises to reduce construction cost and Many people believe they can be the future Compared to &quot;regular&quot; sized reactors that a much smaller footprint, which means that in factories, and then shipped to the installation But how small is &quot;small? Well, they're small enough to fit in trucks Compared to conventional large-scale nuclear have unique designs, SMRs can be manufactured This means you can scale production, reduce construction of nuclear power plants. The World Nuclear Association defines SMRs or less, designed with modularity in mind. To round off the SMR terminology, there are or VSMRs, of up to 15 MW . Compared to the 1.6 GW of power capacity, this new technology one of the front-runners in SMR development that would take up 1% of the space of a conventional Whereas a typical commercial reactor cranks would generate just 60 MW. The in-factory fabrication feature of SMRs and construction cost, as well as make it wouldn't normally be possible with a larger Also, SMRs can be linked with other energy to increase grid stability and security . Talking about money, for about $3 billion, to build a 720 MW nuclear power plant. That's about 20% cheaper per-megawatt than 1.25GW units currently being installed near And that construction has been hit by delays What about safety? Nuclear power plants are complex buildings AC power, backup generators, and batteries of a power loss, which increases accident Suppose something that wasn't considered in In that case, it may cause the system to fail, Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 when a second plant. On top of that, maintenance and refueling plants. Every 18 to 24 months, these power plants takes a month without energy production, and these downsides. When we talk about nuclear reactors, we refer safety measures, and cooling. But, with SMRs, it's different. These small-sized reactors fit right into structure. And some of these designs have a long refueling For example, the 5 MW Micro Modular Reactor, ... you gotta love that name ... requires and the 100 MW ARC-100 small modular reactor 20 years. SMRs enhance safety and security through lower of passive safety systems. That means they have less reliance on active grid power, generators, and batteries. NuScale's SMR employs natural water circulation The thermal safety system incorporates an of the outer vessel, which removes the heat In an eventual emergency, specialized valves be released from the reactor vessel into the The steam then condenses, and water flows set of valves at the bottom of the reactor This helps cool the reactor down. The steam generated by boiling water recirculates, that lasts until the heat and pressure finally All this cooling and power control happens power, no operator, and no additional water, Considering all these advantages, many countries and development of SMRs. The Oregon-based NuScale, for example, has . In 2010, the company estimated a capital would be about $4,000/kW, which rose to $5,078/kW $100/MWh for the first unit. In June 2018, the company declared that its originally planned. Subject to Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval, to about $4,200/kW and lower the LCOE by 18% Hitachi Nuclear Energy, Bill Gates-backed China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC) a demonstration of its 125 MW ACP100 small the existing Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant Canadian ARC Nuclear is also developing an coolant nuclear reactor with fuel costs fixed They also have a company called Terrestrial components from two existing designs; the Modular Advanced High Temperature Reactor Russia is also dabbling in this area. The nuclear engineering company OKBM Afrikantov plant. Akademik Lomonosov, is a power barge that It started operation in December 2019 in its and by May 2020 was fully commissioned and 20% of demand in the region , . But, is this all to good to be true? But before I get to that, I'd like to thank I know we're not traveling much right now, to protect my privacy online. SurfShark encrypts all of the data you send photos, videos, and whatever you're doing A lot of online services use some pretty sophisticated can protect you from that. With SurfShark's CleanWeb, it will block it safer to use the internet even at home. One of the best parts of SurfShark is that whether that's iPhone or Android, Mac or SurfShark is the only VPN to offer one account Use my code to get 84% off plus 4 extra months SurfShark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, Link is in the description below. Thanks to Surfshark and to all of you for So are SMRs too good to be true? Although progress has been made in SMR technology, block for SMRs, as well as potential design NuScale design, for example, is still in the questions, which include potential problems its reactors in eventual emergencies . Normally, to control the nuclear reaction through the As I mentioned earlier, if the reactor overheats, the containment vessel, where it condenses However, the condensed water can be low in boron level might mean it wouldn't be able This has complicated their approval process In addition to that, even though SMRs can with economies of scale. Conventional power plants have thousands of to dozens or hundreds of Megawatts for SMRs. An analysis performed by Energy Strategies in 2019 showed an SMR LCOE range of $46.66/MWh around resource costs. Nuclear power's biggest rival, natural gas, Another issue that's pointed out by critics of what to do with long-lived radioactive SMRs that use a pressurized water reactor and no country has proposed a permanent solution , . Dr. Gordon Edwards, The president of the (CCNR) wrote: "Radioactive left-over used fuel from the storage for hundreds of thousands of years." -Gordon Edwards, president of the Canadian The International Atomic Energy Agency has &gt; "Solutions for managing spent fuel and one of the most important factors to take with the security of fuel supply." -Christophe Xerri, IAEA Director of Nuclear Despite the challenges, SMR supporters look power to be more cost-effective, safe, and sources to balance an increasingly intermittent power. They may be right; but there are still concerns and unresolved problems with nuclear power carbon-free power source can be considered Jump into the comments and let me know what And if there's anything I missed with SMRs. If you liked this video be sure to check out Be sure to subscribe and hit the notification And as always, thanks so much for watching,