What is the experience of a boyfriend with a lot of energy? Again Cichen The marriage proposal was vowed yesterday. It's not like you don't want to pick up your pants and run away. Hello, the number you dialed is empty. Please check and dial again. How can it be empty? Excuse me Did you see the man I had a room with yesterday? Miss, I don't really remember. Can I have a look at the surveillance? He's my boyfriend. I can't reach him, please. Okay What's up Miss, I just checked the check-in records of last night. You're the only one. How did this happen Miss, have you been dreaming? Impossible I fell in love with him for half a year. Chu ci Chen He disappeared. Hello, have you seen this man? He used to be there with me. Don't know Chu ci-Chen, if you don't want to be responsible You can tell me directly. I will not entangle it. But why is it that this month I've been to all the places where I dated you. Even the home address you left me. Work unit I can't believe no one's ever seen you. I'm afraid you had an accident. Finally chose to call the police. Ma'am, the person you're talking about doesn't exist. Is it possible that the love affair of the past six months Is it really just a pipe dream? Jingjing I will always be nice to you. No matter what happens, I will never give up. Ci Chen Grandma, what happened to me? You're... you're pregnant. Pregnancy It is indeed a happy pulse. Chu ci Chen is not my dream. He really exists. Who's the father? It's gone. It's gone. How could it be gone? You must be out there screwing around. Grandma, my sister has been ignorant since she was a child I'm used to playing outside. Did you have sex with several men? I don't know who the father is. You're really unruly. grandma I have a normal relationship with Cichen. You are the eldest lady of the Shen family. Who gives you permission to fall in love with a wild boy outside? You look like this. Who dares to ask you? Oh, Grandma. Don't be angry As long as she doesn't affect the reputation of our Shen Group. Just let her play. There has been an uproar about this matter. How can it not affect the reputation of Shen Group? From now on, Shen Ruojing You are no longer the eldest lady of the Shen family. grandma In your heart Am I just a tool for marriage? ha ha. That's for sure Huh Shen Ruojing You're out. From now on, I am the only one in the position of Miss Shen. Mom, are you sure dad's here? Confirm I haven't made a phone call for five years. Is clearly the heir to the first consortium. And lied to me that my family was ordinary. Chu, you have to give me an explanation today. Look Isn't this the eldest Miss Shen who was kicked out of the house? Shen Ruojing What are you doing here? Why can't I be here? What's your attitude? Do you think you are still the old Miss Shen? Recognize the reality. The present Miss Shen Ruotong is Shen Ruotong. You've already been kicked out of the house. Now you wear a decent dress. Can't afford it? Be interesting and get out. It's not shameful to dress like that on such an occasion. I feel dirty standing with you. I suggest you go to the gastroenterology department The mouth smells so bad. It's all pickled. you Shen Ruotong Your family tutor really needs to be strengthened. Shen Ruojing, you'd better know yourself a little bit. You're just a loser who got kicked out of the house. Don't embarrass yourself here. Made me make a fool of myself. And This little bastard. How far is it? get out of here. Mommy, I mean, it smells like the sea. It turns out that the minds of these people are full of water. An unbred child Who are you scolding? You come here. Slightly Who are you calling, little bastard? You were unruly at that time. Also had sex with several wild men at the same time. Had a baby. I don't even know who the father is. Well, I don't call him a little bastard. What do you call him? It turns out that you have been spreading rumors all these years. Spread rumors isn't it What? Dare to do I can't admit it yet. That is, today is the birthday of Mrs. Chu. You're not ashamed to bring the bastards out. I'm afraid she wants to fish for a rich son-in-law. But a bus like him that anyone can get on. Where else do you know what shame? As long as someone can look up to him. He'll let his little wild owner yell at Dad. I don't know who ended up with such bad luck to uncover his offer. Hurry up and get your little wild master out of the house. You are not welcome. I'm not a little wild pet. I have a father. When my dad gets here, Get all you bad guys out of here. Do you know what you're talking about? Even your mother doesn't know who your father is. How do you know that? Learn to brag at an early age What a vanity. There's a mom like this. It's not surprising to teach such a son, isn't it? After all, the upper beam is not straight and the lower beam is crooked. I'm not lying. I just have a dad. I'm not a bastard. You're right You have a father. Your father is a dingo on the side of the road. Your mother and the dingo. Gave birth to a little bastard like you. Shen Ruojiang, don't you dare hit me. You said I was okay. But you can't talk about my son. I told you he was Xiao Ying. You scold me. I'll give you a slap. If you don't believe me, let's have a try. You asked for it Yeah, I thought he said he had a dad. Then who is his father? Say it and scare you to death. Then tell me. My dad is. My dad. Who's talking loudly over there? Miss Lin, the snake is trying to make trouble. We can't stop him. I can't believe he just hit someone. Shen Ruojin, he unexpectedly Here we go, Miss Shen. This is not your presumptuous place. What's that got to do with you? How can Shen Ruojin talk to Miss Li? What do you think Are you still the equal Miss Shen? That is, although You and Miss Lin were once called Uncle Haicheng. But now you don't even deserve to carry Miss Lin's shoes. Miss Lin was chosen by Mrs. Chu. He is about to prepare for his engagement to Master Chen. Chu Cichen, shut up. Can you mention Master Chen's name, too? I'm in charge of the reception today. If something goes wrong, Mrs. Chu will definitely think I'm useless. And Shen Ruojing must not be allowed to appear at the party. Miss Shen, please leave immediately. I'm not leaving. I'm here to see the father. The father of the child Are you kidding The people who come to this party today are either rich or expensive. You came here to find the father. If Miss Shen really wants to be seated, It's not impossible. But did you bring the gift money? I'd like to take a seat. Invitations are not enough. And a gift of money. What gift? I want to You may not have been to a party for too long. I don't understand the rules of the Chu family. The birthday party of Mrs. Chu Cash only No gifts. So The Chu family has an unwritten rule. Those who give millions of gifts sit at the table. Those who give tens of millions of gifts will sit at a table. I don't know. Miss Shen, which table are you going to sit at? How can he have any cash? He is running out of money for baby milk powder. Shoujing, you're not here to play the autumn wind, are you? Chu family banquet Not all cats and dogs can enter. Not to mention that you still have a little bastard with you. That's ridiculous. That's not how you find your dad. Miss Lin, you are just too soft. Just go to the security guard and beat him out. Miss Shen If you don't have cash with you, I think you should get out of here. Otherwise, if you get kicked out, The face is not good-looking. Who says I didn't bring it? Please ask the old lady. Give him a grandson. Which table should he sit at? The little guy's eyes. Just like the young master of the Chu family. Is he really a Chu child? This child is actually the blood of the Chu family. If Shen Ruojing has a relationship with the Chu family, Who dares to look down on him in the future? Shen Ruojing, what do you mean? You said this little bastard Is the child at the end or whistling? The father of his child is Chu Cichen How dare you. That kind of identity. Is it something that people like you can imagine? Shrojing, I don't think you can live this day. Do you want to marry a rich and powerful family? Life is really hard. After all, prices are getting higher and higher. If only they were all like you. Like me. Me. Miss Lin, this wild boy is definitely not Chen Shao's. He has such a mean mouth. Even you dare to scold. We have to teach him a lesson. Shen Ruojing, if you can't teach a child well, I'll teach him for you today. Security, arrest him for me. Break his mouth. Slightly Can't catch me, can you? You bad guys. When my dad gets here, Take you all in. What are you waiting for? Get him. Yeah, come on. Let me go! let me go! Everybody stop it. Otherwise, my hand slips. He'll be disfigured. Miss Shen, what on earth are you doing? The Chu family is not a place for you to be wild. I want to see Chu ci-Chen Chen Shao didn't say that he could see him on sight. You know what? let's do a DNA test first. Wait until the results come out. It's expensive for me to grow hair. You take it. The money buff looks just like the old lady. Huh Keep quiet The Chu family can do DNA very quickly. You wait Don't you dare deceive the Chu family. You're dead today. Miss Shen, let's wait for the results now. Is it possible to let Miss Lin go? I'll wait until I see Chu ci-Chen. In case Miss Lin is bullying my son. Master Chen, the plane is late. He can't make it tonight. Come to what? Dad's not coming. It's a good thing I was prepared. Let my sister pick up her father at the airport. Uncle, can I touch the puppy? I'm still single. Am I that old? The little brother will touch it for you. Uncle, can I touch my brother? Ah! Brother Cheng, you're finally here. Let me tell you something. This little girl is really interesting. Daddy I'm not your father. Cut the crap. My brother just sent me a message. Said they were surrounded now. Go and save your mother and brother. Kid, who's your mother? Shen Ruojing oops Hurry up. It's too late. Miss Shen, you can stay here. Until the DNA results come out. Can we let people go now? Okay I don't know. I don't know. ShuiLuoJing is going to be in trouble. Shui Luojing DNA is tired of it. Why did you do this to me? Do you hate me that much? What are you doing? Miss Shen, isn't it all agreed? Why are you still hitting Miss Li? Because of this little bastard. It's not Chen Shao's child at all. She's scared, right? Shen Youqing Before the results come out. Get out of here. What, are you Chu's watchdog? Since when are you in charge of Chu's door? He's not in charge. I can. I'm the future mistress of the Chu family. Shen Ruojing, you did this to me. You are not welcome here. I think you are targeting Miss Lin. I know he's hosting the party today. Deliberately bring a wild seed to the house to make trouble. And delusional to replace Miss Lin and marry into the Chu family. I'm afraid I don't know the blood of the Chu family. I'm sure I'm going to do DNA. It's wishful thinking. Don't you have a mirror at home? You don't know who you are. I still want to be compared with Miss Lin. Neither do you. Even if you are jealous of Miss Lin It should also be divided into different occasions. Today is Mrs. Chu's birthday banquet. You don't take Miss Lin seriously. Just turn a blind eye to the Chu family. Get out! get out! Get out! get out! Piss off, Shen Ruojing. You can't wait for the result. Somebody throw them both out of here. Dad, that's Mom. It's been five years. Nice to finally see you again. You are going to be engaged to Lin Wanru No. Where have you been all these years? What happened that year? Miss Shen, please take care of your children. Miss Shen's mother Why did Dad say he didn't know you? You don't know me I should know you. What on earth is going on? Sister Shen, Mr. Chu, be careful. Why are these eyes a little familiar? No fever or amnesia. No brain and liver damage. You're faking it. Miss Shen Please respect yourself. The baby has been born. You told me about self-respect. Shen Ruojing, are you saying that Sam is your lost boyfriend. Good But Sam only went back to China once five years ago. Stayed for a week. Haven't you and your boyfriend been in love for half a year? You and Sam fall in love online. He's always been in Haicheng. We have a date every weekend. Your porcelain touch is so unprofessional. I warned you. Sam has been abroad all the time You can at least be like a little bit, okay? He has been abroad all the time But I clearly remember every day of our date. Am I mistaken for someone else? Do you have any difficulties? Miss Zhen I didn't lose my memory. Like I said, I don't know you. The oil has been noisy for a long time. It turns out that all this is your imagination. Have you given up now? Chen Shao doesn't even know you. Yes, Miss Shen. Chen Shaodu said he didn't know you. Can you go now? Didn't you just have a DNA test? It's not too late for me to wait for the results of the report. Miss Shen, how long are you going to struggle? Even Chen Shao himself said he didn't know you. I think we don't have to do that DNA test. That's right, sister. Don't you feel ashamed enough? Really is a bitch. Have no shame. I thought I could bring a wild bastard at random. You can come to your door to recognize your marriage. It's a pity that Chen Xiao doesn't like your tricks. You really don't believe me. The party is about to begin. Ask the idle people to wait out. Come out of this Because the test results came back. The DNA test results are back. What do you want to do I want to see the report. Great. Now the results are back. I'd like to see if you have any excuse to stay here. Shen Ruojin dares to go wild in the Chu family today. We'll have to teach him a lesson later. Otherwise, Miss Lin's suffering today would have been in vain. You're right. Chen Shao This lying woman must not be spared. She must be severely punished. Must not be tolerated If everyone follows the same example, The Chu family doesn't count. Please ask Chen Xiao to open the report quickly. Miss Shen, this farce should be over. Okay, then I'll do the DNA test myself. I'll get back to you when the results come out. It's a good thing I just plucked two of his hair. Did Silshan just let him go? He just scratched me on purpose. You, too. Daddy Brother Cheng, what about this little guy? Where is your home? Dad, I don't know. Don't call me Dad. Okay, Dad. Take it home first. Mom, where's your sister? Leave it to your father to be DNA. Young master Ci Chen, you're back at last. This is Little girl, whose child are you? Sister, I'm from my father's family. Hey, the affair debt you owe out there again. It belongs to Shen Ruojin. At that time, it was like a plan for you to be treated by Lin. Gave birth to a light rain The child is as big as Xiao Yu. Is it possible that you spend one night with two women? I was set up. That time, I would contact her mother to come and take her home. I have a brother at home. But he's already asleep. Will you play with him when he wakes up tomorrow? Yeah This Shen Ruojing. Have a bad reputation outside. But the child is innocent. Take care of her. Miss Lin spread the news in the name of the Chu family. Xi said you were angry. I don't want to see Shen Ruojing at sea again. This Lin is like No wonder Cichen doesn't like him. Be careful. You think too much. Do you want to clarify? Clarify Is to hit him in the face. Hit him in the face. It's the face of light rain. Light rain, I brought it up with one hand. Forget it for his sake. Girl, let's go. Grandma Xiaomeng, would you like to prepare breakfast for you? Yeah, it's kind of cute. Grandma said that the little sister's mother had a bad reputation. So if you say hello to her later, should you pay attention to her? He's so aloof. Although not from a good background, But the virus smoke Meiko is very good. He can't see me. He can't see me. This is Xiaomeng's. This is Xiaoyu's. It's so cute. How come she's not my granddaughter? Mom. If I had stolen all his triplets There would be no such troubles as today. Five years ago, I drugged Chu ci Shan. Only to be detoxified by Shen Yueji. It's a good thing he doesn't know who the man really is. And then I paid off his doctor. Said he was only pregnant with twins. Steal one of his children. His father almost found out about stealing a child. Besides, what do you need the triplets for? You and Sam are going to have children of their own. Let the triplets compete with you for your fortune. But Shen Ruojin has found the door now. If it goes on like this, it will be discovered sooner or later. What do we do now? Don't be afraid. Shen Ruojin can't even get in touch with Chen Shao now. In a few days, his family will get out of Hancheng. I've already sent someone to exert pressure. Just wait for the good news. Boss said that the DNA test sample you gave me last time The results came out. They are responsible for sending the test report to your email. Okay, got it. Hey, boss. Someone is going to pay a high price for your biological culture sensitivity patent. Would you like to meet the buyer? No time You're retired. What are you doing? Get busy looking for the kids. Hello, I'm looking for Chu Cichen. Do you have an appointment? No, please give him a call. Tell him I'm Shen Ruojing. You are Shen Ruojing. Miss Lin has already explained it. I won't let you go up there and harass Mr. Chu. Please leave immediately. Otherwise, we won't be welcome. Shen Ruojing Miss Lin is about to get engaged to Mr. Chu. Don't you dare blame him. What a shame. Brother Chen, Dr. z is so spooky. His phone also has the highest encryption. We can't even find him. Otherwise, I wouldn't have let you do it yourself. Brother Chen is awesome. You broke the firewall. Let me see where Dr. z's cell phone is located. Isn't this the gate of the company? Why is it you again, Shen Ruqing? Let me tell you something. Brother Chun and I are going to find someone today. I don't have time for you. Don't be ignorant of praise. The test report came back. The child is yours If you ask questions, marry me. Brother Chun even made a fake report. Miss Shen, I made it very clear last time. You don't have to get close to me. I'm not interested in this. If you don't believe me, Why don't you do it yourself? I hope you will contact me after you finish your DNA. And explain it to me. What on earth is going on? And I don't know. Lin Wanru is the master of Chu Group. Ah, it is worthy of the flower of Gaoling. Ah, I suddenly forgot my business. Look where the phone for Dr. z is located. Was discovered. Mr. Lord, Miss Shenlin. You're fired. Brother Chun, where are you going? What are you doing home? I really want to be a DNA. Miss Shen We are the staff of the Child Protection Society. I received a report from the public that there was child abuse here. So I specially came to investigate. This Lin seems to be really haunted. I'd like to ask you a few questions now. And invite you. Answer truthfully what kind of work do you do now? It's kind of freelance. That means there's no job. According to our investigation, Your mother and father are unemployed. So the whole family has no income. We also asked the neighbors. I know you have two children. But you keep the little girl at home all the year round. Don't let her go out. Excuse me, why is that? Because he doesn't like it. No way Children like to go out to play. If you do this, you usually prefer boys over girls. Now we suspect that children have a tendency to be abused. Please ask him to come out and see us. He's not at home. He doesn't even go out. How could he not be at home? Is it because you have abused children all year round? That's why they stopped them from seeing us. The woman even abused her own child. All the investigators have come to the door. How could that be? This is outrageous. Oh, yeah. That's not true. Being a mother is too much. Come on, hand over the baby. Hand it over. Hand it over. Hand it over. Shi Ruojin, we have called the police. Ask them to save the children in distress. Yes, during your investigation, The child will be sent to the orphanage for good training. That's right I volunteer at the orphanage all the year round Don't worry I will take good care of your child. I know you're good at fighting. But you can't stop them. Assaulting a police officer is against the law Is anyone here I told you I wasn't home. Where are they Yeah, I went to find their dad. It's over It's a good thing I'm smart. Or you will fall into the clutches. Whose child are you? Why are you here? It looks familiar. But a five-year-old child I'll make you so nervous. It's not like you're here to call Sam for Dad, right? Daddy Dad, do you still know me? I'm Chu Tianye. My sister and I are twins. I miss you so much Why did you bring back another baby? This is yours again. Hey, you're here. How many children are there that I don't know? He's not I'll contact his mother to pick him up. Beautiful sister Are you Dad's sister? I'm my father's mother. No way You look younger than Dad. Chu Tianye, what are you doing here? I'm looking for my father and sister. Chu Xiaomeng is your sister. You two know each other. Yeah, we went to a kindergarten. I'll take you to your sister. Ma'am, the young master quarreled like this child. At first glance, I thought they were brothers. Could they really be Chu children, Mom? I'm back Yo, the second young master of the Chu family. I also know where the door of Chu's house opens. Mom, look what you said. I heard that Shen Ruoqing came to the door with the child. These are the two kids. Five years ago, the night of your brother's accident, You're not at the Huashe Hotel, are you? How do you know Usually you are most afraid of your brother. As soon as I heard the news You came back in a hurry. There must be something wrong with it. Don't tell the truth. I went to get a room and play games with some buddies the other day. Drunk. And then I had sex with a woman. Then why didn't you say so? No, I didn't expect me to be so good. I can't believe I slept. Flowers in the ditch. Don't be happy too soon. The baby may not be yours. Let's make a DNA first. Chu Yu is really excellent. Well, will Dad give me less because of this? Chu Tianye's little curly hair is so cute, isn't it? I want to touch it. Don't look at me. Don't look at me. Took a piece of hair. Uncle, it hurts to pull out a hair. But if you want it, I'll give it to you. It just takes a lot of nutrients to grow a hair. My sister and I were gone as soon as we were born Mom and Dad go out early and come home late despite hard work. Still have no money to buy me nutrition. How much do you want for friends? I'll give you a hair. 1 Million Okay, wait for me. I'll give it to you after withdrawing the cash. Don't bother so much. I have a bank card. Just transfer the bank card in. It's ready. I have a lot of hair. Do you want to buy some more? You must find out. Is it a father-son relationship or an uncle-nephew relationship? Understood Is the watermelon sweet, little girl? Yeah Sweet Uncle, do you want to eat watermelon? My sister and I lost our father as soon as we were born. Mother got up early in the morning and late at night to sweep the street and so on. I thought you said you were going to move bricks. Well, after moving the bricks, I went to sweep the street. My mother is very poor. So that my sister has never eaten watermelon. She is very pragmatic. So 5000 yuan for a piece of watermelon Sweet and crispy Young and old are not bullied. Oh, okay. Hey, hey, ha, ha. Alas, I don't know how much they have suffered over the years. Mrs. Lin Wanru is here. Talk about Shen Ruojing I need to talk to you about the two kids. Let her in. Auntie, we found out Over the years, Because Shen Ruojing couldn't find the man of that night. Vent all the anger on the children This is evidence collected by the Child Protective Society. What? They dare to abuse their children. What? they dare to abuse children. Why is he so excited? There is also information provided by Mrs. Shen. It is said that Shen Ruojing has been ignorant since he was a child. be subject to changing moods And Mrs. Shen also provided a lot of breaking news. It turns out that when he was 10 years old, he was abducted and sold to the depths of the mountain. I didn't get it back until the age of 13. When he came back, he was covered in blood Keep no one close. So he may have been stimulated by something. What kind of blow can you take? Be turned into a mountain. It must be as reported on the news. To be a child bride. No wonder the reputation is so bad. Even if there is anything, It's not his fault. What matters is these. If he has a malicious mind, Abuse of children Then we will never forgive lightly. The young lady is so afraid of people. Is that because of this? You go get the family doctor. Arrange it right away For the kids. Do a comprehensive physical and psychological examination Yes Auntie Both children are still young. If Shen Ruojing threatened to come to the door Afraid to tell the truth. And Shen Ruojing will also use this as an excuse to pester her body. What if it scares Chu Yu? Before the matter is found out, Shen Ruojing will never be allowed to enter the door. And she's not allowed to see two kids. Well, as long as Shen Ruojing can't get into the Chu family. Then there's no way to explain. Aunt, let me take Xiaoyu to dinner first. Let's go. Light rain Let's go. Xiao Yu, you should act coquettish with your father more. Said he missed his mother. Let me go to the Chu family more often. Do you remember? It's Chuzi's fault. It's really limited that I can only go to the Chu family once a month. If you don't come to the Chu family to deal with these two little bastards, I'm afraid the consequences will be endless. And those two kids. They're going to compete with you for property. You have to find a way to drive them away. Their mother is a bad person, too. If he goes to Chu's house, He must not be allowed to see Dad. Do you remember? I'm talking to you. Are you mute? Ah! Huh Hello Why do other people's moms dote on their children? But every time my mommy comes to see me, she makes an offer. Ah! You all right, little man? How's Xiaoyu doing? The young master is fine. Just scared. Refused to let go of the woman who saved him. Take me to meet Xiaoyu's savior. He is the nobleman of our family. That woman was here just now. Boss You took your favorite car at that time. Well, it was enough to see that the situation was urgent at that time. Why do you think you risked your life? For what? How's my car? Sent it to be repaired. Hey What I told you last time. About the patent for the biological culture. What are you thinking about? The other party's offer is not low. Not so good. Who would have thought The internationally renowned microbiologist is the least. Unexpectedly, he is so young in front of him. The woman just keeps the money and doesn't make any money. There is no way to be self-willed in patents. Mommy, Grandma asked us to stay at Dad's house for a few more days. Can you deliver your sister's schoolbag tomorrow? It seems that Ono and Xiaomeng had a good time in the Chu family. Although Chu ci Chun forgot me But I don't want to let the kids down either. Mother Xiaoyu just didn't meet your requirements. Why did you run away without saying a word? Without telling my mother when I got home Mom's been looking for you all night. Usually the light rain follows me well. Why are you running away from home when you get there? Children are always more conceited in front of their mother. Aunt Xiaoyu was frightened today. Can I stay here with him for a few days? Sichen said that Lin Wanru was strictly forbidden to spend the night at the Chu family. But children always go to their mother when they are sick. Xiao Yu, I hate you. Go away. Light rain Let me see you out Your mommy is so annoying. My mommy is different. She's cool and rustling. Can do anything. Is the most beautiful woman in the world. Only my aunt was prettier than your mother yesterday. No way I've never seen anything better than my mommy. Beautiful aunt. The car is good. My mommy is good, too. The beautiful aunt smells good. My mommy is too soft to be blind. Also soft The beautiful aunt is the most beautiful woman in the world. I want Dad to marry a beautiful aunt. No, Dad wants to marry my mommy. My mommy is the best. Sister, don't you think? Yeah My mommy's here. I'll take you to meet her. As soon as you see it, I'm sure you'll think it's prettier than your pretty aunt. Mrs. Shen Ruo is surprised. No Auntie I hope you don't mind my leaving now Come with me to find Mommy. Miss Shen, please leave. You are not welcome in the Chu family for the time being. I'm here to see my two kids. Shen Ruojing, why are you so haunted? You can't get into the Chu family. Get out of here. Please ask again. Once or call my kids out. Don't waste your time here. To tell you the truth, I'm here You will never enter the door of the Chu family. Mommy Mommy Mommy I miss you so much Beautiful aunt. Are you here to see me? What are you doing here This is my house. The child I saved yesterday turned out to be a Chu child. Xiao Yun How can you talk to him? He's not a good guy. Shen Ruojing No matter when you get in touch with my son, I'm warning you. Don't ever talk to my son again. Miss Shen, my master told me Don't you ever come to the door again. Please leave immediately. The master's orders. Doesn't Chu ci Chen want me to enter the Chu family? Can't Shen Ruojing understand people's words? Still shameless. Get out of here. This is no place for you to come. Go, go. I'll call security. Let go. Beautiful aunt. Does your wound still hurt? Mommy, you're hurt. Yes, the beautiful aunt tried to save me yesterday. Eight stitches on the leg Miss Shen, I didn't think you saved Xiaoyu. Please come in. Mommy, don't stand there. Let me help you inside. Be good. Auntie, slow down. Mom, does it hurt? It's okay. It doesn't hurt. If it's someone else, I'm afraid I can't wait to talk about how serious the injury is. Let the rescued be grateful. But he is an understatement. It is not so ignorant and ignorant as it is spread outside. be fond of eating and averse to work Miss Shen Is there any misunderstanding between you and ci Chen? We, Miss Shen, Dad, I love this. Change his toy. Children can't touch other people's toys casually. Chu Yu lent it to me to play. Dad, why did you only give it to Chu Yu and not to me? You should ask your father for it if you want it. You're my dad. No, no. This is a toy I made for you myself. Don't lend it to anyone else ever again. Bad dad, I hate you. Miss Shen The Chu family is not in the habit of raising children for others. Please take the two children away. Sister Shen has gone too far. I apologize to you for him. Ono Xiaomeng Let's go It doesn't matter if I don't want this dad. Beautiful aunt, don't go. Xiao Yu, come on. Your father won't allow Miss Shen and his children to come to the door. Then let Aunt Beautiful stay and Daddy go. He is really a white-eyed wolf who can't be raised well. You can see Miss Shen's charitable attitude. Please, in the future, Don't bother the three of us again. Chu Yu let go Shen Ruoqing, you are not allowed to take the children away. I know you went through bad things when you were a kid. Turn you into a psychopath. But you can't abuse me no matter what. The girl said Xiao Meng. Look at his reticence now. You are about to be abused into a mental illness. Mommy didn't abuse me. The report came out. Cheng Ruoxing, I know the child defends you. But it's okay. The doctor told him Xiao Meng's physical examination report. The young lady is in good health But there are some psychological problems. He has mild social fears. Generally speaking, there are two situations that cause this kind of personality. First, what kind of blow did you suffer? So I don't want to see anyone. Second, the IQ is too high. Unwilling to deal with primary-age crowd So what kind of blow did he suffer? The young lady belongs to the second situation. I can't believe that as a highly intelligent genius, Zixuan also asked for a doctor when she was a child. After examination, it was determined that the IQ was too high. If Xiaomeng is the same Then it is very likely that they are the real women. You go to Cichen's room and find his razor. Do the DNA test again. Remember to hurry. Yes Shen Ruojing, even if the children are all right, I can't marry you either. What are you talking about? Shen Ruojing, don't pretend. The child belongs to Cimo. Please stop pestering Cichen. I know that Cichen's identity is more respectable. Do you want to be compared by me? But you can't mix fish and ink with beads. Even you can't cloud ink. Rely on Uncle Lin Who are you talking about, Elm? Miss Shen, I think we should go back to our respective places. Put an end to this farce If you want to pester Cichen, I'm afraid the house is going to be a mess. I think Aunt Chu and Cichen Will not allow this to happen. So you're going to push me on your brother. Miss Shen, I've said it many times. I don't know you I'm asking you to do another DNA test with my kid. No. Why not? I saw Chu ci Mo coming out of your room that night. This can't be fake. So there is no need to have another one with Cichen. Miss Lin, I just want to do a DNA test. Why do you keep blocking it? Cichen has only had sex with me all these years. Stop dreaming. You had sex. I'm sure you don't know. You saved me and his baby, didn't you? So please give up on Cichen. Stop messing with our lives. So you didn't lose your memory. But refused to recognize me. Because of him. Miss Shen, please be clear. I've never been in love with you. How did Ono and Xiaomeng come from? They're your kids. It's none of my business. Let me say it for the last time. I don't know you And I'm not gonna do anything with your kids, DNA. For five years. Studied for five years. Also thought that he might be married and have children. But I never thought it would be like this. Little leaf kitten Let's go, Miss Shen. Could you stay a little longer? Two hours will be fine. Yeah, you wait a little longer. When the DNA report comes out, I'm going to compete with this woman for custody of the child. good In order to avoid accidents I'll get the test results myself. You must take Miss Shen and her two children Keep it for me, okay? Rest assured This is Mommy for me and my sister. Prepared nutritious products I'll buy you a drink. The beautiful aunt did a great job. Sooner or later, something will happen to these two children if they don't handle it. Crazy, I won't let you stay in Chu's house so easily. You forced me to do this. Young master, what's wrong with you? Doctor. Oh, my God. Light rain Ah! Ah! It hurts. Light rain Xiao Yu, what happened to you? You're going to work hard. Don't scare your mother, Xiaoyu. You have to take care of these two children. What do you care about those two little wild masters? Come and see the light rain. He is the son of Zichen The young master of the Chu family If anything happens to him, Zichen won't let you go. Light rain Here comes the soapy water. Send it all to me. You've had enough. It's not enough to prepare for light rain. Don't forget whose servant you are. Isn't my sister my father's child? Why don't they treat us? It hurts. Detoxified snake paraquat All three children drank paraquat. Now that we have the result, Why not detoxify them quickly? This poison is used to weed. It's very toxic. Kill in one bite There must be a way. A few years ago, Dr. Z invented a detoxification pill. If you take it to them within half an hour There should be some salvation. Then what are you waiting for? But I only have one collection. Hey, Xiao Yu, why? Our kids don't care? Zhi Ruo is surprised that you have two children. Even if the antidote is given to you You don't know which one to save. Why not give it to Xiaoyu? Cichen Xiaoyu is your son. Shut up. Mr. Chu, please make a choice. If it's too late, it's too late. Pei Xiaoyu Shen Ruojun, what are you doing? Are you sure you want to give the medicine to Chu Yu? Miss Pei There's nothing wrong with me using my Chu family medicine to save my son. Just give me back the medicine. Otherwise, you will blame me for being rude to you. Good medicine can be dealt with. You promise me one condition. Take a DNA test with my two kids. Sure It just makes you give up. Don't ever come here again. I got the DNA test report. Unexpectedly, I've only been out for two hours. There is so much trouble at home. These two kids are really me. But why did he say that I had been in love with him for half a year? I don't even remember. This old bastard went so far as to be a DNA behind my back. Dr. Sizhen. It's the poison he found in the drink he gave the child. So he planted the poison. He hates us so much. So he's going to poison our children. So what if you do DNA? Now those two little bastards will die, too. It just happened to be over. You hate him I hate why he poisoned my child. Why are you so ruthless? Is all the drinks poisonous? Why are you pretending? In order to poison all the children, You're going to poison all the screens. What are you doing? What? you? Cough Cough Cough Cough Cough Did you read the report? What's the result? It's a father-son relationship. Then you tell everyone. Who is Chu Tianye's father? It's me. Ono, do you hear me? I hear you. Remember it all. Ono and Xiaomeng are also Chu children. Who will treat differently in the future? I won't spare you. It's okay. Most of the poison was vomited. Only a very small part has been absorbed. But not life-threatening. Cichuan, did you see that? He dared to poison me in front of you. That's what he's doing. Zichen He's a cold-blooded animal. He was scared of the poison. On the 18th, he gave the antidote to Xiaoyu. He's just trying to make you feel guilty. Don't hold him accountable for his crimes. But his two children are dying. He still killed your child. You can't leave him alone. That night five years ago Not you Chu Yu and Chu Cichen The DNA also reached 99.9% that year. As long as I kill this Chu Zichen. It's impossible to give up on me. Zichen Xiao Yu is your own son. It wasn't me that night five years ago. How did he get out? Ah, Zichen. For Xiao Yu's sake. Take me to the hospital. Feng Junyue Looks like the detoxification pill worked. Ono, how much time do they have? If you don't take the detoxification pill in time The toxicity has begun to erode their internal organs. Live less than an hour. All the authoritative doctors in Haicheng Treat these two children immediately. Contact drunken doctor to find detoxification pill No matter what the cost Even if it's a robbery. And you have to get the medicine back to me. Yes There is less than an hour left. Why would that woman take the baby away? It's a waste of time If my children don't live, I won't let him go. They're not my kids. I thought the ratio between me and my eldest brother's child was 2:1. Only to find that it was 0:3. What genius daughter? They all belong to other people. Where are you going I'm going to the Shen family. This is outrageous. Dad, the whole family has gone too far. If you don't give me more of the inheritance this time I will never forgive him. Sister, why aren't you talking? What are you thinking I forgot my book. Aren't you angry? Dad gave the only pill to Chu Yu But didn't give it to us. If it wasn't for mom, the doctor had an antidote. We could be dying. You said it was in Dad's heart It doesn't matter whether we are or not. I'm back. I just took the sheets from several rooms. All the covers have been washed. Just take it out and bask in it. Grandma, I'll hug you. Sure. Where are the pictures of you and your sister? It's all a little moldy. The sun is fine today. Take it out and bask it in the sun. Okay, 50 yuan. Wechat or Alipay? You little money buff. Let's go. Are the kids gone? Even the white sail has been hung up. The ugly one, Shen Ruojing, if not He took the baby away. How did you leave so fast? This is outrageous. Shen Ruojin's layout of the funeral hall is too simple. How can our monk children do that? Uncle Get out! It turns out it's alive. What a surprise Dead, uncle. Could you bring me some money? Why did you fall into the eye of money? Ono, I'm glad you're okay. Can you show Grandma to your room? All right Grandma, this way. good Hey, you go to the room, too. Hey, Mom. I'm not interested in children's rooms. You're interested. You two have a good chat. To remove the misunderstanding. Xiao Qiang, we didn't even finish watching it. There must be less resentment. This is my diary. I can't read it. Ono, you're only five years old. Grandma will help you to see if there are any typos. Check it out, okay? Okay, but don't read page 38. Yeah. Okay. I'll get my sister. good Remember that page 38 must not be read. Okay, promise not to look. It's my birthday But mom went out to work late. Just to buy a birthday cake for my sister and me. I'm very distressed, Mom. Mom asked me to make a wish. My wish is I can suddenly have 20 million yuan in my bank card. In this way, we can give our mother an old age. I didn't tell anyone. If you say so, it won't work. And I won't show these diaries to anyone. Hey All these years, Shen Ruoqing took care of two children alone. It's not easy. No wonder Xiao Yue is such a money buff. Mom, our family is so rich. You're still a money junkie. It can be seen that this thing It's hereditary. Hey Have you paid your salary bonus this month? Mom, what are you doing? Can we not satisfy your nephew's birthday wish? Transfer him 20 million, isn't it? Why don't you spin? I can't bear to give up. Ah, okay. But I don't have his bank card number. Then take a look. Isn't that written at the back? I know that my birthday wish will be realized by the gods. So write down the bank card number, too. Lest the gods transfer the wrong money. Why am I always hurt? brother I thought you said go to your room. Wait a minute. Hey. Go and bring them a plate of watermelons. For uncle? What uncle? That's a valued client. So you're the drunken doctor. This has nothing to do with you, Miss Shen. Why don't we talk? How did Tanni abandon her two children for Chu Yu? Miss Shen, I was set up that night five years ago. I can't remember what happened. That's why I misunderstood you. Who has come this far? You and I are both parents of our children. Why be so hostile? And I've never done anything to hurt you. Honey, this durian is too expensive. Let's not buy it in the future. The Chu family banned me from outside. I can't shoot right now. No income. Where's Mrs. Shen? I broke with you again because of the order of the Chu family. I will never pay for living expenses again. I did the math. There is not much savings at home. You have to save the phone. Ono is the most pitiful. Such a young child The Chu family actually gave the order. But the kindergarten won't let him go to school. We need to save quickly. So he can go to a good school. What exactly do we hold a grudge against the Chu family? How could they be so cruel? The Chu family did not do anything to hurt me. It just got my dad banned. Get my mom kicked out of the house. It's just that my son has no books to read. I'm sorry. I'll take care of this. And that Chu Zichen failed our family plot. Don't let me see him. Or I'll play one at a time. Yeah Ah! Jingjing This is Chu ci Chen. Uncle and aunt Actually, I'm pretty hard. But I'm only five years younger. You are definitely no match for me. Your father was very good five years ago. Of course, he used to play an emperor. Long Teng, the emperor of the extermination of the country How did my wife Chu's family come to us? Shouldn't we be allowed Get ready to run away overnight. Grandpa doesn't need it. Grandma and Dad are not here to bully us. It's here to give us warmth. What about the affairs of Miss Shen's family? It's been checked out. It was the babysitter who poisoned the family. He broke a vase the other day. I asked him to pay for it So he held a grudge. Now, uh, it has been reported to the police. In the Chu family, I knew I couldn't get the evidence. Fortunately, I punished someone else in my own way. Before, I thought Xiao Yu couldn't live without his mother. So I've been setting up Cichen and Lin Wanru. But now I don't think she's fit to be the mistress of the Chu family. So I have called off my oral engagement to him. Where is Lin Wanru? Break the body And called off the engagement. It's a price to pay. But he is Xiaoyu's mother after all. The Chu family is not easy to go too far. Hello Xiaoyu is awake. He wants to see you. I have no hobby of raising children for others. Beautiful aunt. I want to see you Where are you and Didi's sister? I'm going to find you. Miss Shen Since Ono and Xiaomeng are also children of the Chu family I think why don't you take them to the Chu family with you? No need. You're at home. You're not going anywhere. I don't... The kids need to rest, too. I won't bother you any more. About what happened five years ago I'll send someone to look into it. I will let you know when I have the result. Go and inform Hai Zhen There is no gap between the Chu family and the Shen family. Withdraw the orders issued by Lin Wanru In addition, the oral engagement with the Lin family is cancelled. I will not be engaged to Lin Wanru. Ling Xiaojian has been sent to the hospital. The Lin family used to take care of Bijie. Mm-hmm. What Xiaoyu ran away from home? The young master burst into tears Said we should have a good rest when we are tired. Let's all get out. Don't let us disturb you. We didn't expect this either. Sir, we're here for the young master. But he's not coming home. Said that if he was not allowed to go to Shen's house, He went on a hunger strike Oh, forget it. Let him go. It's also good to cultivate a relationship with two children. If Miss Shen doesn't let him in, Take Chu Yu home. Don't get too entangled Mom, you're my mother. No shouting. I'm not yelling. I'm the father's child. Ono and Xiaomeng are also their father's children. So you just have to marry your dad. You'll be my mother. Chu Yu, you are not welcome here. You go home right now. I don't... Mom, are you sure you can't let Brother Xiao Yu in? He's the son of a bad woman. That bad woman is still trying to hurt us. Hey Why can't Brother Xiaoyu be my own brother? If we were triplets, We can love each other. But a bad woman is a mother. She's so pathetic. come in Hey, hey, thanks, Mom. Don't call Mom. Thank you, Aunt Beautiful. You can only be here for one day. I'll take you back tomorrow morning. Great, Chu Yu. You can sleep with me tonight. Can I go in and see the two kids? Whatever. When is Chu Yu's birthday? The fourth day of October What? Why is Miss Jun so surprised? Chu Yu's birthday is the fourth day of October. The birthday of the dragon and Phoenix is the tenth day of October. It's only 7 days before and after. In this way, you stepped on two boats. At that time, Chu ci Chen always blushed in front of me. A look of pure love It turns out it's all fake. He's a scumbag at all. Miss Chen, I've never really been in love. And I've never lost my memory. I have been abroad all these years. Seldom return to China You said you were never in love with me. Then what is this? This is This is a picture we took when we were dating in the park. I've been looking around with this picture all these years. Trying to find you. Miss Shen, don't worry. I will certainly give you an account of this. Dad, I'm not going home. I want to be with my beautiful aunt. Xiaoyu Xiaomeng Look what I brought you, huh? I'm sorry, Dad. I don't know the mistakes I made before. You're daddy's kids, too. Now I want to make amends. Don't know, Ono. Is Xiao Meng willing to give his father this chance? He can put himself down like this. It's not like ignoring it. Does he really not remember me? I hope you don't mind my leaving now Come back tomorrow. Please take Chu Yu away. Miss Shen, light rain He has a stubborn character Even if I take him away now, He will still find a chance to come back. Please take care of him for a few days. Let's just say the Chu family owes you one. Smelly dad just left, smelly straight guy. Hey, isn't this the bumblebee made by dad himself? Who needs me? It's worthless. Lin Wanru, let go. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. You let me go. I'm not leaving. Xiao Yu, this is no place for you. You're my son Come home with me Don't go. Why do you come to other people's houses to rob people? Just because I'm his mother. You let go. Go If you don't let go He was dislocated. Are you the child's real mother or not? I have no idea. Feel sorry for the mother of the child What are you doing? Shen Ruojing and Chuyu is my son. I have the right to take him. I'm not leaving. I want to be with my beautiful aunt. It's not up to you. I'm your mother Is your legal guardian. Huh This is his birth certificate. Chu Yu is my son. If you don't let him go, I will report to the police that you abducted and sold children. At least you have a few years in prison. Why is this signature so familiar? Shen Ruojing seems to be the mother of the child. There is some contradiction between mother and son. You said that you, an outsider, always intervened. What, you want to stop them from being reunited? The child was sent by Chu Cichen. Even if you have to go, Chu Cichen came to pick it up himself. One mouthful of Chu Cichen You really don't want to die. I see You think you took it with you? Chu Yu can marry into the Chu family. Let me tell you something. No way. You have two kids. Why do you always occupy other people's children? Why are you such a bitch? I like to help others raise children so much. No matter how low your identity is, The Chu family won't let you in. Shen Ruojing is going to take Chu Yu no matter what. You stay away from my son. Will take Chu Yu with you. You stay away from my son. Do you want me to call Chu Qichen to talk to you? That seems to be enough. If that's enough, get out of here. Hey, you. Let's go, huh? What's mom doing now? Calm down. Don't panic. How could I not panic? Light rain is my only leverage. If they find out about Xiaoyu's life, Then I'm done. I sent all those people away. Don't mess yourself up. As for light rain I have a way to get him home. The hospital on the birth certificate. It is Haicheng first Maternal and Child Hospital. And Lin Wanru's attending doctor Unexpectedly, he was my original attending doctor. Isn't all this a little too coincidental? I just asked the Chu family. Sure enough, it was announced to the public. Withdrew the previous order to ban us. I also have an itinerary. I have to take part in a business event tomorrow. Can you give me 200000? That's right This Mrs. Lin is very strange. The relationship between our two families is obviously not good. Tomorrow is his birthday. Even sent me a birthday invitation. I'm not going Mom, let's go. OK Hello, Miss Shen. Tomorrow is Mrs. Lin's birthday. He is Xiaoyu's grandmother. Both affectionate and reasonable should participate. So I'm going to pick up Xiaoyu for the party tomorrow. When do you think is convenient? I'm going to the birthday party tomorrow. That's just right. Could you please bring Xiaoyu to the birthday party? OK Pick him up when it's over. Beautiful aunt. Remember to pick me up after the party. You go home. Rain, your mother came to rob you yesterday. She has a saying that is right. Our family. Is not qualified to keep you. If only I were the child of a beautiful aunt. The beautiful aunt is different from her mother. Mother always says gentle words. Doing cruel things. But the beautiful aunt is always cold. Doing something gentle. When the banquet is over, The beautiful aunt won't take me away. Or I can come back on my own. Come on. Isn't that Dr. Li who delivered the baby for me? Why are he and Mrs. Lin together? Dr. Li, what are you doing here? Mrs. Ming, many dignitaries forget things. It is rare to remember me I paid him off at that time. So that no one knows it. Stole a child from Shen Ruojin. What's he doing here? You came to me. There was a medical accident recently. The other party seeks a claim of 2 million Aren't I strapped for money? Mrs. Lin, look at you. What a big mouth! Where? where? The neighbor got it from that child. It's a drop in the bucket. Of course, I can also go directly to Shen Ruojing. Tell him that he actually gave birth to triplets. Miss Shen, what are you doing here? I'll transfer the money to you later. But I warn you. Don't appear in front of me again. Do you hear me? Yes Miss Shen Why are you so sneaky? It's really not up to the table. Where's the light rain? Oh, my gosh. Light rain You have to know who your mother is. Don't want anyone else to give you anything. You are shortsighted. It was bought off by others. Beautiful aunt is no one else. Hey, you. The housekeeper showed Mrs. Shen and Miss Shen around. They haven't been to this kind of party for a long time. Be sure to entertain well. It's Miss Shen. Mrs. Shen, please. Mrs. Lin is so angry. It seems that what Dr. Li said has something to do with me. There must be a conspiracy. After the banquet I'm going to the hospital to see Dr. Li. That's our lady's money. His piano has reached the level of performance. And these pianos sell for millions. You can't afford to pay if you get dirty and break it. Master Chu is here. The young master of the Chu family is here. It seems that the good news of Chu Ling Bird's family is coming. Even for the sake of young master Chu Ling He should be here, too. Now that everyone is here, All take your seats. The Lin family put Miss Shen at the end. It was a demonstration to bully the Shen family. Do you think Miss Shen is not worthy of our Chu family? We Chu family always look for a wife only by character. Regardless of origin If you just want to look at your origin, It seems that Tarin is not enough to see. Zichen, what are you doing? I'm going to get some air. I have long heard that Miss Lin is extremely talented. I really had a good day. Miss Lin's attainments on the piano It is one of the best in China. We can hear her playing today. It's really blessed. Are you kidding me? Miss Lin, you are so modest. You played that song beautifully just now. It's like the sound of nature. Ah, Miss Shen. Can you play the piano? How many knots do you have? Didn't take the exam. I haven't passed a single episode. I just can't play the piano. What do you mean, a little bit? Wolf, I can also play. I can play two tigers. Ha ha ha Mrs. Shen, you should really take good care of your children. Have been so indulgent since childhood. You have something to lose when you grow up. Girls. There has to be a talent that can do it. Jingjing can play the piano. What can she play? Play cotton? Forget it. Don't stain our ears. My son just played Jiawat dance music two days ago. Miss Shen, will you? Isn't your son only six years old? ha. Look at that posture. I thought it would be a metropolis. My son can play this kind of music. Mrs. Hahashen, your daughter really knows a little bit. This variation of Xiao Xiang Xiang by Mozart Variation two Choreography three He plays faster. This is the best song I have ever heard. Make a fool of myself. I'm going to the bathroom. Mrs. Shen I didn't expect Miss Shen to be so smart. Your family is so low-key. Miss Shen's attainments It can be ranked in the international community. I'll go to the bathroom, too. Dad, didn't you say you were going to see Ono yesterday? This Transformers is not ready yet. You have a set. I'm going to make one for him, too. Is dad going to engrave Ono's name on this? Cty is his initials. Yes But dad gave him a bumblebee yesterday. Ono didn't forgive you either. Does he not like this? What does he like? I don't know, but you can ask. Beautiful aunt. Please help Dad. He loves these things. Oh yeah Crooked tail here. He likes to add a circle. Like this? Yeah Here's the thing. Miss Shen Mr. Chu Premise There are good programs waiting for you. Beautiful aunt. Don't forget to take me. Zichen, I think Xiaoyu always disturbs Miss Shen. It's not so good. Or let her go back to Chu's house. Miss Yun, we are not so close. It's necessary to say my name. Shen Ruoji, you don't really think You and Chu Zichen are from the same world, right? I'll show you. The gap between lowly ordinary people and our rich family Mom, to celebrate your birthday. I have a special birthday present for you. Is it Everybody knows that. In ancient times, there was no need for actors to perform on the stage. We are modern people. I also like to find a starlet to support the scene. I can't invite the King of the Movie. This kind of 18-line one still grabs a lot. Sure enough Dad, suddenly there was an announcement that they were doing something wrong. Mom. I chartered him for one day. You can do whatever you want him to do I remember you were a little actor, right? Then you can show us a monkey. If you can make my mom smile, Double the tip Hey, don't forget. The boss told him that his client was God. What's wrong with raising a monkey? come on. The little star is not sensible. I paid you to come. What are you doing standing there? It's like, um, you're so ignorant. This is Miss Shen's father. Yo, what a coincidence. Then don't play the monkey. Let's play a criminal police drama. Just take my mother as Lafayette. You're the eunuch. Just celebrate my mother's birthday. Does this slave want to kneel down to celebrate his birthday? I won't take this job. What are you doing We signed a contract. You also signed it. Why did you go back on your word? You need to apologize to the client. Obviously, they have gone too far. Our contract is very clear. To meet the needs of customers It's written clearly in black and white. You're just a little actor. What big names are you playing? Do you believe me to tell the company right away I'll ban you right now. So that you can't act in the future. Don't you dare leave this door Face high liquidated damages with the neighbor. That's tenfold. Can you afford 2 million yuan? We can afford it. Go back and tell your boss. He terminated his contract with your company. Will he dislike such a superficial? I'd like to introduce you. This is my father. He is an actor It's the 21st century. The feudal dynasty has long been overthrown. Every profession deserves respect. Thank you so much for interrupting and saying goodbye today. Hold on Shen Rujing in broad daylight So many people What are you doing? Hit your bodyguard. The bodyguard picked him up and called the police. I'm calling the police. Call the police I'm calling the police. Mrs. Lin, this is just a joke between the two. You don't have to call the police for a fight. Your family is really deceiving others too much. No wonder they did it. He shouldn't hit people in public. Last time, he poisoned my daughter. Is Mrs. Lin sure to investigate the poisoning last time? Okay, I'll give it to Chufu today. Save one's face I'll let it go. Well, you get out of here. Remember to take Chu Yu away. Beautiful aunt. Why didn't you pick me up? Miss Shen, I'd like to explain to you In fact, Cichen and Lin Wanru were just an accident. She's got a lot of accidents. Just one accident. What do you mean It's the same day as you. What? No way Did he disappear that day? It was after my marriage that I went to see Lin Wanyu. Chu Yu is a premature baby He was brought into the Chu family by Lin in a month. At that time, the child was a little older. Just like other kids. Since then, uh, Cichen has never returned home. I didn't get in touch with him. Two people together. Add up to no more than five sentences It's not like Lian Jia said outside. Mom, why did you tell him that? I don't like anything like him. How could it get into my brother's eye? Rest assured I'm not interested in people who can't control the lower body. Can we go in and see the two kids? Come on in. You guys go in first. Let me get something. Grandma and Dad said yesterday that they would come to see me today. He doesn't mean what he says. He apologized to you yesterday. You ignored him. That's why he's afraid to come today. Then I'll ignore him. Why didn't he know to coax me? What are you doing? When Xiaoyu was one year old, I gave him a bumblebee. I gave him Optimus Prime when I was two years old. When I was five, I gave him Megatron. Light rain, Dad. I didn't know it existed forever before. I sent you a bumblebee yesterday. Today, I made another micro-shock patch and Optimus Prime by myself. Do you want it? Yes. All right, you will have everything except your appointments. Including the inheritance. Does it include the inheritance? What a little money buff. Cute Daddy. I know you don't like Transformers. These are two books that I have annotated. Thanks Dad Good boy. sorry Excuse me for a moment. What did my grandparents and mommy do? Is someone coming after them? Dad, you go help Mom. good I heard you went wild at the Lin family party. Qiankun, can you understand something? Don't you know the relationship between the Lin family and the Chu family? Offended the Chu family. You still have a good life, Auntie. Grandma has been restless about this for several days. Can't you save your mind? That's what you're here to talk about. Of course not I came to you. It's important. Mom, we have a guest at home today. It's not convenient. If you need anything, just say it here. What guest? Shi Jingjing's friend His friend. How many bad friends he has made outside all day. They are all no three, no four people. I said you should take good care of him, too. You really can't get into this house. I remember we were kicked out of the Shen family. Our family background does not bother Mrs. Shen to fly. This is what you call a friend. So good-looking. Must be a pretty boy. What's your name Isn't this Chu ci Chen? I think I made a mistake. Mr. Bi Jingchu has knocked him over. How could it be here? What's your name So rude. I don't even know the basic etiquette to my elders. Blind in white with a good face Mom, you'd better go back. Whatever you want to talk about today, It's all inconvenient. If there's any inconvenience, get out of the way. You really can't get into this house today. Then I won't go in. It's right here to make things clear. I'm here today. It's for Shen Ruojing's marriage. Marriage is right. He's 25 now. Fooling around all day be derelict in duty and run irrelevant business It can last a lifetime. Besides, I have two children. What kind of family would want him? It's such a pretty boy. Can we play with him? Shoujing, what's that look on your face? Grandma is for your own good, too. You guys are really doing what's best for me. Still worried that the affairs of the Lin family will affect you. No matter what. I've arranged the marriage. Why don't you come home with me? So what kind of good family are you going to find for Jingjing? You are a superfluous son-in-law. There's nothing for you to say. Mom, he's my husband. Please show some respect. All right, get down to business. You know your second brother and sister is also 28 this year. Didn't she always like Jingjing? So I came forward and said it. The marriage was settled like this. You're talking about that stupid kid from Lao Li's family. What stupid boy? Li Jia and Shen Jia are also a good match. There is something wrong with the brain of the second child in their family. But if there is no problem, will you marry Shen Ruojing? Mom, how could you? What a good marriage it is. The two families are close together. Otherwise, the remnant flower like Shen Ruojing will fail. With two young men. What kind of family can you find? It turns out that all these years He has suffered so much criticism with his children. Even his relatives did this to him. Of course, I will let Li Jiashan treat the two children. At least they can support them in college. No better than their poor father. The children of our Chu family do not need to be raised by other families. What Chu family? You are the father of two children. Good Which company are you a contracted artist? Do you understand Haicheng's rules? The baby is yours, so it's yours. What did you say about the Chu family? If you don't know, I thought you pretended to be some Chu family. Brother Chu Sheng, what are you doing here? Why do you call him brother? Brother, what are you doing here? Master Chu Which brother is this? Of course it is my eldest brother who can be called brother by me. You are Chu Sichen. The child belongs to Chu Chi-Chen. It's none of your business. Please go back. We've already broken up with the Shen family. And don't ever see each other again. Well, you've climbed to the top of the branch. Look down on the Shen family. It can be broken clean. Everything you have is. The Shen family gave it to you. Including the clothes you wear. How can you tell what you said about parenting? Give me a price. I will return it to you. Shen Qianhui, I think you're confused. Are you really going to sever ties with me? Yes good Then do the math. It's my mouthful of rice. One mouthful of food raised you from a little baby to such a big boy. You owe me a life. How can you return it? Honey, what are you doing? Don't kill the old woman on impulse. Shen Xianhui What are you doing? I'll give you your life back. I heard that people have 100000 blood in total. I'm going to keep my body to take care of the baby. Accompany the husband You can't give it back. Then I'll give you 100000 blood back. One day and one night You mustn't do anything stupid Why can't you do it? People only have 100000 blood. If you give it back to me Just give it back for one day. That's not how accounts are calculated. You raised my mother until she was 18 and went to college. Later His tuition and living expenses are borne by himself. At that time, the wealth of the Shen family was several million. It is he who has achieved hundreds of millions of assets since taking office. If it comes in this way Aren't you going to give the Shen family to my mother? Fart sorry Your hand slipped. Go on. Well, how dare you murder your grandmother? Come on, kill me. Enough Somebody. Don't you dare harass Shen Jia again. Do you believe me to make you disappear from this world? Roll and watch you get down on your knees. Mrs. Shen has been in Haicheng all these years I have heard of you for a long time I didn't expect our family. There will be such fate. Miss Shen gave birth to a dragon and Phoenix for our family. We Chu family will not ignore it. Let Dad marry Mom. no way So you still don't know me, do you? Yes Like this Then you can go. What about the kids? But I want to be with my beautiful aunt. Where's mom? That's where I am. My brother is right. Grandma Xiaoyu wants you to stay. But I want to talk to The beautiful aunt is together. As long as all three of you come to live in Chu's house. Are you still worried that the pretty aunt won't come? I'm not going. I'm not like someone. Let mommy do what she doesn't want to do. No matter how much I pay, I won't betray my mommy. So you just betrayed Mommy. I don't know. But Grandma gave too much. Sister, grandmother said. The Chu family has a big library. There are many books hidden in it. Especially the solitary edition of the whole world. And there is no one in the Chu family's library. Because outsiders can't enter casually. Let's go. Where to? Go to my library. So you're going to Chu's house. Mommy, when I get my grandmother's money, You can be a salted fish every day. It's no problem for me to give you an old age. Wait for the money. I'll be back. I'll be back when I get these books. Yeah, let's go back together. I'll be back when they come back. Dad doesn't marry a beautiful aunt. When I grow up, I marry. Okay It just so happens that I can go to that hospital sometime. Looking for Dr. Li. Auntie Before, the young feather was poisoned. frail I just want him to take some time off. What about tomorrow? I want him to go back to school. So you two won't have to come from tomorrow. Then let's spend some time with him today. Okay. Okay. Let's go. I can't believe my beautiful aunt didn't come to see me for so many days. I'm going to pack my bags and find my pretty aunt. After all, husband and wife can't be separated for too long. Otherwise, there will be a marital crisis. Beautiful aunt. See me. Are you disappointed? Light rain You have no conscience. Do you even know who your mother is? Light rain Xiao Yu, where's your mom? Actually, I love you very much. She's just not very expressive. Yes, light rain. You see, this is your mother's favorite gem. What about us now? give it to you. It can be given to a beautiful aunt. It can be used as a token of love. What about this gem? You mustn't tell your father, okay? I'm not gonna tell Dad. It's a secret between me and my beautiful aunt. Mom, is this really okay? Don't worry. The stone is extremely radioactive. A week at the most Chu Yu will suffer from blood disease. And the best way to treat blood diseases Is to let you and Chu Cichen have another child with you. To save you, and then you can make a request. Let you get married. But what if Cishan doesn't agree? You can rest assured that Mrs. Chu will get him to agree. Don't forget. Chu Yu is his favorite grandson. Ono, what's wrong? Hungry or thirsty? The beautiful aunt is not here. I am the future stepfather of Chu Tianye and Chu Xiaomeng To help the beautiful aunt take care of the child. Never mind I just want to see what you just took. Never mind Okay Ono Dad, my sister and I have been pitiful since we were kids. Mother worked hard to get up early, greedy and black to feed us. Ono, what are you trying to say? Dad, today. Chu Yu's mother gave him a big jewel. Me too How big is it? It's so big, come with me and have a look. That gem must be worth a lot of money. Look, this is it. Hello Mom's out of the hospital during the rainy season. At Haicheng Children's Hospital Shen Ruojing, what did you do to Xiaoyu? Why did he suddenly faint with a high fever? Light rain is just not feeling well. What does it have to do with Miss Shen? Auntie, you always pay attention to Xiao Yu's body. The Chu family always had a family doctor. Do a regular check on Xiao Yu Xiao Yu has never had such a serious illness since he was a child. But he got sick when he got to their house. He must have abused Xiao Yu. Oh, don't cry. After all, it's not my own. It's hard to raise as your own child. Miss Shen's negligence is understandable. But Xiao Yu is all right this time. Don't bother Miss Shen. Mrs. Chu still has to raise her own children, doesn't she? It's okay. It's okay. The fever has gone down. Is convulsion and fever. Must have been in some kind of shock. Next, just calm him down. Never leave me Never leave me Chu Yu was almost hit by a big truck before. Be frightened I think he's dependent on you. Miss Shen, could you stay with him for a while, please? Okay, Mom. Mom's here. Xiao Yu's mother is here. Mom. Mom. I'm mom. Will always be there for you. Miss Shui, I won't bother you to look after my child. Miss Shen, I'm sorry for the trouble. Chu Yu still can't go to the Shen family yet. I was ill-conceived before. You two are so embarrassed. It's normal for a child to have a headache. But put it on Chu Yu Gave Lin Wanru a reason to hurt you. I can't put you in this situation. know Yeah, the first day of junior high school is not my child in the first place. Now I finally don't have to worry about it. You should be happy, aren't you? But why are you looking at their family? I'm a little trembling. I'll talk to the doctor. You take care of Xiaoyu. Mom, don't come near me. Mom, go away. Have you heard? Dr. Li is in trouble. I heard that he received red envelopes from pregnant women's families. Do b-ultrasound for someone and tell them it's a girl. As a result, it turned out to be a boy after induced labor. The family favors sons over daughters Now he is afraid to come to the hospital. I guess, ah, I'm afraid that people will bet on compensation. You don't know what happened to Dr. Zhou, do you? In fact, he often receives red envelopes from patients' families. Make some private deals with pregnant women That doesn't count today. The biggest is his routine operation. Besides, people are protected by honorable people. Nothing will happen. It is true that he has a relationship with a rich family. This matter has not been It's been pressed down. If you ask me, I have no sympathy for that pregnant woman. The family favors sons over daughters They really deserve it. It's just that a dog bites a dog. All right, what are we supposed to do? go. Yeah Did Dr. Li deliver the baby for me? Dr. Li. The last time I stood with Mrs. Lin in the parking lot It seems to be Dr. Li, too. Miss Shen, it's really you. I'm the nurse you delivered five years ago. How are your three kids? I only have two children. Isn't it three? I remember correctly. I just graduated five years ago. Do an internship here Be in charge of delivering the baby Because you are very beautiful, Miss Shen. Three more were born in one birth. So I've always been very impressed with you. Ha ha ha I'll go to the doctor and talk to you. Zichen Mr. Chu Do you eat fruit? Let me peel an apple for you. No Do you eat bananas? Or grapes. I just washed it. Are you the child's real mother? What does Mr. Chu mean? Of course I'm Xiaoyu's real mother. Light rain and high fever The lips are dry like this. The doctor told Xiaoyu to wipe his lips from time to time. Ever since I came in, All you have to do is ask me if I eat fruit. Do you ever care about children? I'm going out. I said get out. Take Lin Wanru's DNA sample. Make a new comparison with Xiaoyu good To hold a transnational meeting immediately. Mom, it's over. It's over. Why? Chu Zishan began to suspect me. I just heard him say he was going to marry my DNA outside the ward. Go to do a test with Xiaoyu. What should we do? Now, if he finds out that Xiaoyu wasn't born to me, Then our Lin family will be finished. Calm down. don't panic. Mom, what do we do now? Up to now, we can't just sit back and wait. You listen to me. The young master is gone. What's going on? I don't know. I fell asleep last night. But no one came in except the doctors and nurses. Come on! It's called surveillance. Yes. Is it? Oh, my God, what if Xiao Yu is hijacked, son? Go and find it with me. Brother Chen can take people away from you. This man must not be easy. You think about it Who have you offended recently? Especially those who are very clean. Because it has always been hidden. Except for the servants who signed the confidentiality agreement. And a very few people. Few people know who he really is. Jackie Chan, you know who it is. Then I'll call my brothers quickly. You tell me who it is. Let's level his house. Daring is Xiaoyu is really eating the courage of the ambitious leopard Don't worry If you win, you're afraid they'll destroy the body. What are we gonna do? Xiao Yu, he's only five years old. He doesn't have the ability to protect himself. From time to time Bring it to the nearest Hello Boss You asked me to speed up the DNA test for you and Chu Yu. The results came out. speak up Chu Yu is your own son. Mrs. Chu, I happen to have something to tell you. Did Chu Yu go to your place? No. Why? He's gone. If he comes to you. Please contact me as soon as possible You have the man. good Did you find the sapphire? He took it with him all the time, huh? Good. Then let him keep it with him. Mom. Do you think Chu Zishan really found something? Why did Chu Yu lose it No one in the Chu family has told us so far. The Chu family didn't tell us Then let's pretend we don't know. And even if they doubt it, There is no Chu Yu They can't even test DNA. So you relax. That's good Mom, what about that little will? Why don't we take care of it? No kids. The Chu family can't find out the truth. Not with a word of aftermath. No kids. How can you beat Shen Ruojing? What are we going to do? Now we have the initiative. What's your hurry? If Chu Cichen suspects We'll destroy the body and wipe out the trace. one finished , all is finished Withdraw from the administration of Mrs. Chu But if there's no doubt, besides I'm gonna go check on that little bastard. It's smart at a young age. If it wasn't for the mountains, He really got away. Stay away from him. The sapphire around his neck It's not a good thing. It's okay. My physique. I'm not afraid of anything. There's radiation in his thing. You'd better stay away. Hey, hey, I said it's okay, but it's okay. Leave him alone Play cards, play cards, play cards You want some water? Mm-hmm. What to drink Nonsense It's no use at all. What right do you have to drink water? Chutian also lived with Chu Xiaomeng to the Chu family for only a few days. Shen Ruojin will be free to enter and leave the Chu family. What about me? you lived in the Chu family for five years. And I got nothing. What you don't have. It's mom's voice. Other people's mothers love their children so much. Why doesn't my mother love me? Keep an eye on him. Yes. The Lin family definitely kidnapped the child. They will do whatever it takes to achieve their ends Xiao Yu's life or death is still unknown. I have to do something. We can't let them really kill Xiao Yu. Why are you calling me? Are you jealous of me? What are you talking about What do I envy you? Jealous that I came from a better family than you. Jealous that I look better than you. Jealous that I have two children. And you only have one child. Oh, no. Chu Yu is prone to fever. One day he may die young. You won't even have one. There will be no hindrance between me and Chu Zichen Xiao Yu, forgive me. Mom said such vicious things to protect you. You farted. Chu Sichen has no feelings for you at all. Really? don't hang up. I have a surprise for you. Can I help you, Miss Shen? Zichen, you promised me before. Will also let me live in the Chu family, right? What's this woman doing? Obviously, we respected each other before. I suddenly became enthusiastic today. What I said before. Always count. You can take the children and live in the Chu family at any time. In the future, I will live in the Chu family. Even if we hold a banquet Chu Yu's mother will also be invited. Don't worry. I'm not that stingy. The beginning is the same as today. good So when will you check in? Don't bother. Mom, Chu Yu He can't die. Must be alive. I'm going to marry Chu Qiqiu. I want to be Mrs. Chu. What's the hurry? calm down. Don't mess yourself up. Ma'am, no. Young master, he can't do it. What? Why haven't you called a doctor yet? We can't let this moment. Even the slightest move is a problem. The Chu family is full of Haicheng looking for him. If it is discovered, We're all screwed. But he's dead. The Chu family would be surprised to make a choice. We can't take risks in this world. It's like you listen to me. Now, if he dies, It's better than they found out. Chu Yun, wake up. You are not allowed to die. You are not allowed to die. I must have saved him. He can't die. You wake up. I must save him. You all think of a way for me. Go to the hospital. If it is a minor illness and minor injury We have our own treatment on the road. But now he's hurt like this. Even if it is sent to the hospital I'm afraid it won't survive. So there's nothing you can do about it? Is it possible Do I just watch Shen Ruojing marry into the Chu family? You get up. You listen to me. It's not impossible to do it now. If Shen Ruojing is the killer of Chu Yu And you are the victim's mother. The Chu family will always owe us. Yes, I must stop Shen Ruojing from marrying into the Chu family. Check out the Lin family. Keep an eye on them. Let me know immediately if anything happens. Boss, where is it convenient for me to go to their house? Why don't you check it out yourself? I'll check. It's easy to find out. What kind of people? What happened? Mrs. Lin, early in the morning, What do you want? What do you want, comrade policeman? I'm calling the police. What are you doing? I'm not messing around because your grandson was killed. What do you mean Early this morning Someone suddenly came to my house. Said he saw Shen Ruojing kill Chu Yu. Running is the back garden. That's impossible. I don't believe it either. So I want you to bring Chu Yu. If everything is a misunderstanding, Then just make it clear. Chu Yu, where is he? Chu Yu Chu Yu has been kidnapped. Dad, it's him. It must be him. I heard him say it myself. If Chu Yu hadn't died, The minister will marry her and start. Shen Ruojing You are so ruthless. He is still a five-year-old child. You have children, too. How could you do something like this? I didn't do anything about it * We don't have anything to say * Mrs. Lin, don't talk without proof. Casually slander people Bah I slander people. Comrade policeman Go in and search. As long as you've killed someone. There must be traces. Why should I let you search my house? Why are you feeling guilty? Comrade policeman Do you see They feel guilty when they look at them. This is a search warrant. Excuse me We need to go in and check. Huh Please Mom, who is Xiao Yu's clothes? Why are you? Why did you kill my son? Forget it if you come between me and Cichen. I can make way for you. But why did you kill my son? Why is it so cruel? You give me back my son. You give me back my son. You give me back my son. Shen Ruojing, you give me back my son. You give me back my son. Shen Ruojing You are so ruthless. Actually killed my nephew. You are so ruthless Brother, I must not leave this woman alone. Mr. Chu, you love Chuyu so much. You must want to kill this killer, too. Peel it. That's for sure Oh, comrade policeman. Why are you hesitating? Hurry up and arrest this murderer. No, we don't have anything to say about it * Then what is this dress? What's the blood on this? This dress. I don't know how it ended up in our house. Human evidence and material evidence are all there. Don't you dare argue Comrade policeman Arrest them quickly. I suspect they were committed by a gang. We need to make sure the blood on it belongs to the victim. To make an arrest. What else is there to confirm? Can't we just go to the back garden and look for the body? You don't have to find it. Why don't you go? Are you afraid of finding the body to prove the crime? Because he's already here. Beautiful Aunt Xiao Yu Don't leave you. Xiao Yu, you're not dead. Xiao Yu Xiaoyu Are you all right Grandma, I'm fine. But you already died It's obviously out of breath. What happened People are fine. This is a misunderstanding. Comrade policeman This is not a misunderstanding. And there's nothing you can do. Just right. I'm calling the police, too. Mr. Cheng Are you talking about the Lin family calling the false police? Except this And kidnapping, abusing and killing children next door. Cizhen, I didn't. Not me, not you. Why did you just say that he was dead? Who's out of breath? No one knows about the disappearance of young master Chu. How do you know he's not breathing? Xiao Yu, do you know who kidnapped you? I know it's mom. You're talking nonsense. You didn't even see it. You're blindfolded. How do you know he's blindfolded? I guess Being kidnapped in TV series is always blindfolded. Rain, let me ask you something. Did you see us? No, because I was blindfolded. You see, I told you. He didn't look. He didn't see it. But someone saw it. My bodyguard is snooping around Saw three people kidnap him. Among them, Dashan feels sinful. Contacted me on his own initiative And cooperated with the arrest. The rest. Break through the bottom of the box I won't hold him responsible. Comrade policeman It annoys me the most when I join this group. This is the first time for me to do this job. Mrs. Lin is the mastermind behind this. He told us to abuse the child to death. I watched them kick the kids in the heart. All kinds of abuse The child is covered with injuries What he did was a terrible thing. Comrade policeman I couldn't save the baby. I can only secretly take some pictures as evidence. The child was beaten and vomited a lot of blood. Was thrown into the back garden of the Shen family. Fortunately, Miss Shen happened to see it. Saved the dying child. This is torture and murder. What awakening? This is clearly Chu Cichen's man. I told you. How could Chu Cichen not even save a child? It was already arranged. Chu Yu was picked up yesterday It doesn't seem to make it. In fact, they are in good health. It's just a little empty after a day of hunger. If the beautiful aunt hadn't saved me, I'm already dead. Saving lives is like being built. You will be my mother. Xiao Yu Xiaoyu This is all my fault. Your mother didn't want to kill you. It was all my idea. Anyway, he's your mother. Xiao Yu, I'm your mother. You were born to me. You can't do this to me. Really? you're his mother. What does that make me Really? you're his mother. What does that make me Auntie, let me explain. Lin Wanru Have I been good to you all these years to feed the dog? How much did your Lin family take from our Chu family? You don't know that, do you? Five years ago, your Lin family was a dilapidated settlement. Now enter the top ten industries in Haicheng. It's all our Chu family's help. It's all brought to you by light rain. Even if you're not his real mother, You can't abuse a child like that. He's only five years old. How could you do it? Mrs. Chu, even if we did something wrong, And the law spoils you here. You can't do it, the law. You help me. You help me. Are you completely considerate after seeing Shen Ruoji? From the bottom of your heart. Look down on me Do you know Your grandson has been contaminated by radiation. Get a blood disease sooner or later. Ha ha ha ha Even if I get shot, He's with me to die, too. Ha ha ha ha Is that what you're talking about? I've already replaced her. Lin Wanru You vicious woman. I'm gonna shoot you. Mom, what are you doing? How can you hit someone in front of the police? Then I should be able to move my feet. Like what's going on? The hospital. We're going to the hospital. In broad daylight No matter how good the Chu family is, it can't be done. We will arrest these two men. But before that, We need to take them to the hospital for treatment. The Lin family has taken advantage of our family over the years. Make a lot of money. I'm so blind. I... Look at the time. At this point, the Lin family should be acquired by us, the Chu family. Can he agree? The kidnappers almost died when they mistreated Chu Yu. Dare they disagree? Sacrifice your son for business ambition. Mr. Chu is such a good trick. Mom, this is all with my consent. Light rain Let's get to know each other again. Xiao Yu, let's get to know each other again. Hi, I'm Mom. Mom Hey, Mom. Yeah Mom Xiao Yu's mother is here. Mom, is he really my brother? Yeah, you're triplets. Great. Hey, hey. Did you find out about that photo, Mr. Chu? Boss found out. The photo is p. Miss Shen seems to have been deceived. Luckily, what? Luckily it was me that night. I didn't find out. Miss, I'm sorry. Everything in the past is my fault. It doesn't matter. My lord has a lot. Forgive you. Okay. Although I don't know why I don't remember you. But from now on, I want to try to understand you. Well, it's been a long life. I'll wait for you to remember me. Daddy Will you give me the same inheritance as Chu Yufen? Hey, hey. Only when you die will you divide the inheritance. Well, after you die, Will you give me the same inheritance as Chu Yu and my sister? If you live, I will give you an inheritance. What fun Dad, don't worry. When you get old, I would never give you oxygen.