A daring parachute escape from a flying 727 A search was made of the plane immediately... We don't know who he was, where he came from, I expect that we'll keep looking until we find him In the afternoon of November 24, 1971, a middle-aged man carrying a briefcase and purchased a one-way ticket The man identified himself as Dan Cooper and, he soon boarded Northwest Airlines Flight 305. Once aboard, Cooper made himself comfortable on the right side of the cabin. He ordered a drink and had a smoke Once the flight was cleared for departure, and handed an envelope Inside the envelope was a note featuring a Schaffner reluctantly sat down beside him eight sticks of dynamite Cooper's demands were quite simple. He wanted $200,000 in cash He also demanded a fuel truck to stand ready to Should they fail to comply with his demands, Once the flight was airborne, while another flight attendant, by the name of By using a telephone in the rear of the cabin, between Cooper and the rest of the flight crew For the next hour and a half, Flight 305 while local and federal authorities as well as the four parachutes. 10,000 $20 bills while the owner of a nearby skydiving school At 5:45 P.M., more than two hours Flight 305 finally touched down in Seattle. By this point, it was well after sunset, and the aircraft was brought Once the flight came to a stop, both the ransom who then brought them back aboard. In exchange, Cooper permitted two of the flight attendants as well as all the passengers to disembark. Many of whom had not yet realized With the ransom paid Cooper told Mucklow to inform the Captain They were to fly with the landing gear down, The lights in the cabin were to be which opens from the underbelly Two of Cooper's demands could not be satisfied. would not allow for a non-stop flight As such, Cooper proposed a refueling stop before they all agreed on Reno, Nevada. Second of all, it was not possible to depart Cooper agreed to retract the stairs on the condition and taught him how to extend them Parked for nearly two hours Flight 305 was back in the air by 7:36 P.M. Less than five minutes after takeoff, and that, from this point onwards, The last time she saw Cooper, as if though he was preparing to jump. Mucklow joined the rest of the crew, and some three hours later, Once the flight came to a stop, the crew but there was no sign of Cooper The aft stairway had been extended mid-flight It seemed, there was only At some point, between Seattle and Reno, walked down the stairs, As soon as it became clear that Cooper dozens of FBI agents only to discover a disappointing A black clip-on tie... ...eight cigarette butts... ...and two of the four parachutes Evidently, he brought the ransom In interviews conducted Cooper was described by the crew and passengers He appeared to be in his mid-forties a dark suit, a white shirt, Soon after boarding, Based on this description, the FBI produced Before they could mount a search, however, when Cooper abandoned ship. But that was easier said than done. None of the four crew members nor did the pilots of two fighter jets, which Which is not all too surprising Although, the flight crew The last communication with the hijacker when the crew used the intercom Within the next 10 minutes, as an oscillation or vibration of the aircraft. At the time, the crew suspected and a subsequent recreation of the hijacking Okay, so that took care of the when, While Cooper was very explicit about the he never specified any kind of route. In fact, Cooper grew so impatient that he dismissed the Captain's request &quot;get the show on the road.&quot; As such, the Captain chose to fly along an airway By using Victor 23 as a guide, authorities at the approximated time of the jump And so, at the break of dawn, using helicopters, airplanes, and ground troops. The problem was, even if the Cooper's eventual landing- or drop zone The loosely defined search area covered a vast stretch of mountainous wilderness occluded by a dense forest, so it was truly like finding Apart from the difficult terrain, by low temperatures and inclement weather Despite their best efforts, authorities never nor the items he'd brought along with him. Having made little to no progress the FBI turned their attention The money had been collected which maintained a ransom package of $250,000 just for such an occasion. Because of this, the serial numbers of the had been documented in advance. A complete list of which were quickly made government agencies, and the general public. The intention was to make it as difficult Northwest Airlines and several newspapers to anyone who could find a note In spite of these efforts, no one ever did. That is until nearly a decade later. In early 1980, was building a campfire on a small beach As he was digging into the sand, Ingram Having heard about the infamous skyjacking, Ingram's parents brought the The notes were promptly inspected, the serial numbers Once the excitement subsided, however, the money managed to raise The most significant of which was how? How did the money end up so far away Looking at this map, that Cooper simply dropped some of the money, The bundles could then have been carried before finally being washed ashore at Tina Bar, which is the name of the beach. Tina Mucklow. Tina Bar. Coincidence!? Yeah, coincidence. Anyway, the problem with this idea flows in the opposite direction. This has lead some, including members of the FBI, For instance, if the drop zone close to a river called the Washougal River, it is conceivable, albeit improbable, that Alternatively, the bundles if the flight path was further to the west. Even so, natural explanations potentially free-falling and/or free-floating, ended up at the exact same place To complicate matters, sediment from the riverbed as part of a dredging operation in 1974. And, according to one analysis, the money If true, that would mean the money But a reexamination of that analysis found that what might actually have been Not only that, but the sediment some distance away Furthermore, the rubber bands which held them together This is significant because revealed that this brand of rubber bands to open-air or water for more than a year. So unless the bundles where somehow they must have become buried at Tina Bar The most probable explanation, therefore, deliberately buried the money. Did Cooper survive Did someone else bury the money If there is an explanation it's managed to elude investigators Suffice it to say Since Ingram's discovery in 1980, both Tina Bar have been subjected But, to date, there's been no sign of Cooper From the very beginning, it was assumed by many It would not make for a very but that's the thing about stories, While there is no hard evidence for the assumption that he fell to his death When Cooper leaped into the darkness, at roughly 170 knots, The wind was so violent that it ripped out which was later recovered in 1978 To say that Cooper was not dressed for the occasion The ground beneath him, meanwhile, which likely means that Cooper jumped Even if he could see the ground the parachute he selected Meaning, he would not have been able to steer Thus, precluding any potential coordination While Cooper expressed some his actual competence level It's widely believed that Cooper demanded two primary and two reserves, to make the authorities believe That is precisely what happened as the FBI sabotaging the chutes as they did not want to But in their haste to obtain them, with a nonfunctional dummy-chute This mishap seems to have gone unnoticed was one of the two missing from the plane. Not only that, but Cooper chose the older out of the two primary chutes provided. So, in both cases, it seems like Cooper But there are other ways For instance, it's possible that Cooper used but as a means In fact, that is precisely what Cooper First, he tried to place the money before removing some of the suspension Perhaps he used the dummy-chute And Cooper's decision to use the older primary chute It could also be a sign of familiarity because while the one he used was a military chute. The argument is that Cooper and chose the older military chute because And there is at least one other reason to While the flight was in a holding pattern near Seattle, was only 20 minutes away At the time, that was an accurate assessment Apart from the potential military connections, Cooper may even have had links You see, the type of aircraft a Boeing 727, was also used by the CIA to covertly drop A task for which the Boeing 727 was uniquely So it's fairly safe to assume specifically because it provided Whether he learned of this from the CIA or came However, the fact that Cooper chose was apparently random chance. When Tina Mucklow asked Cooper &quot;It's not because I have a grudge towards your airline, He further clarified that Flight 305 happened Even so, He seemed to know a great deal He appeared to be familiar with the local terrain. He maintained a low profile to avoid a panic. He covered his eyes with He left very little evidence behind. And he demanded four parachutes to force He was even cunning enough to reclaim the note Apart from the name there are no other samples But for all his planning and cunning, it seems Cooper did not give enough thought Not only did he fail to specify a route, but he was from Mexico City to Reno. He could have demanded more appropriate parachuting He could even have specified the ransom to make it lighter Presuming he did survive the fall he may then have had to make his way in nothing but loafers and a trench coat I get the distinct impression that than a carefully executed jump. On the other hand, authorities never matching the description of Cooper This might suggest that he did survive and that he swiftly and quietly Furthermore, other hijackers and many of them did survive, Finally, the simplest explanation for how is human intervention. At the end of the day, most of this is based Without any concrete evidence it leaves the door wide open that he did, in fact, survive. By the time the press the FBI had already begun to investigate Among them was a man in Portland This Cooper was quickly eliminated the name Dan Cooper was confused for While Dan Cooper is most likely a pseudonym, The comic is written in French and centers While the comic was not translated into English it was available in Canada, Given that American and Canadian accents it's possible that Cooper, who was described was a bilingual Canadian. This might even be supported You see, when the Captain relayed he used the phrase It seems doubtful that an American citizen so perhaps Cooper was not American. The problem is, we don't know or paraphrasing by the Captain. For instance, notes taken merely contain the phrase While testimonies provided include phrases like So Cooper might have been Canadian, and he might just as he might have been American, and might have Nearly half a century has gone by since the thousands of suspects It would obviously be impossible let's take a look at some of the people that, have been suspected Robert Rackstraw first became a suspect in 1978, He was a decorated He had experience with explosives. He had an extensive criminal record. He had an uncle named John Cooper, He was expelled from the Army which might suggest a motive. After all, the hijacker did say When confronted by journalists Rackstraw would neither confirm Instead, he'd say things like &quot;I could have been&quot; On the other hand, Rackstraw had More significantly, Rackstraw was only This is well outside the range of ages Most of whom believed Cooper Kenneth Christiansen when his brother noticed certain parallels Christiansen had briefly served as a paratrooper he'd worked for Northwest Airlines He was 45 years old He was left-handed, For instance, Cooper used his left hand and the clip-on tie he left onboard Shortly before he died in 1994, &quot;There is something you should know, After his passing, his family discovered To top it all off, Florence Schaffner bore a strong resemblance to Cooper. On the other hand, Christiansen did not He was both shorter and lighter. While Schaffner she remarked that Cooper had more hair, And there was nothing suspicious which he'd simply earned by selling land. Richard McCoy first became a suspect in 1972 when he hijacked a Boeing 727 and escaped via Because of the significant overlap some believe they must have been committed McCoy used a fake name. He used a fake hand-grenade He used handwritten notes Both McCoy and Cooper as a warning to the crew. McCoy demanded $500,000 in cash McCoy also bailed out the back of the plane once they passed over his hometown Apart from the similar modus operandi, McCoy had also served in the Vietnam War McCoy did actually survive the fall two full days before he was apprehended Before his death in 1974, McCoy refused On the other hand, and even came prepared with a skydiving helmet and jumpsuit. He gave very specific instructions In addition to the fake hand-grenade, McCoy also used an unloaded handgun He failed to retrieve one of the notes He was only 29 years of age And all three flight attendants were While there are meaningful parallels McCoy might simply have been a copycat Duane Weber first became a suspect in 1995 he supposedly told his wife: &quot;I've got a secret to tell you. I am Dan Cooper.&quot; Following his deathbed confession, Weber's She claims to have found a bank bag She claims Weber had sustained a knee injury Weber supposedly had a nightmare And a year before the money Weber had allegedly paid a quick visit In addition, Weber was a World War II veteran. He had an extensive criminal record. He matched the physical description. And he was 47 years old in 1971. On the other hand, did not match any of the prints Although, to be fair, there's no way to know Furthermore, Weber's DNA did not match But, once again, there's no way to know actually came from the hijacker What's so frustrating is that the FBI likely If you recall, eight cigarette butts and there's a good chance The problem is, that evidence was lost William Smith first became a suspect in 2018. Smith served in the Navy during World War II He was 43 years old at the time of the hijacking. He had dark brown eyes. He matched the physical description. He shared a certain likeness especially this speculative sketch A student named Ira Daniel Cooper, attended the same high school as Smith. Smith worked as a yardmaster for a but in 1970 the company As a consequence, Smith lost his pension, He could, for instance, have developed for their role in bringing about the downfall It's further speculated that Smith could have hop on a train and escape undetected. On the other hand, Smith spent his entire Given that the hijacking occurred and was committed by someone who, at least, Smith is not the most ideal candidate. However, the fact that Smith You see, the tie that Cooper left behind was which uncovered various metallic particles. Some of these particles, especially pure titanium, This might suggest that Cooper worked as a manager or possibly a rail yard. If nothing else, I hope that this illustrates just how difficult it is to be certain These five individuals look nothing alike, Was Cooper really in his mid-forties Did Cooper really serve in the military? Which one of these sketches In 2016, the FBI had to admit defeat Unless someone stumbles upon Cooper's remains it seems there is little hope of resolution. Did Cooper survive? I have no idea. But as long as that possibility the legend of D. B. Cooper