- When I started my I thought that because chips were easy to make. And because nuclear bombs were only controlled by they were hard to make. But what I realized is If you take nuclear weapons, that technology has barely It's so easy to make nuclear bombs, even the North Koreans can do it. But chips are everywhere because they're cheap and they're tiny. And making things very is extraordinarily difficult. Today, there are just three cutting-edge processor chips, the types of chips that or are used for AI. For many of those devices in some cases, can only in a single factory in Taiwan. The key risk that hangs over but really our entire economy is that something goes wrong in the Taiwan Straits, such that we lose access My name is Chris Miller. I'm a professor at the Fletcher School and author of &quot;Chip War: The Fight for the World's Well, I first got interested in chips when I realized you how the world works without them. When we think about technology, we think about social media, we think about apps on our phones, but undergirding all of this are chips. A chip is a piece of silicon, often the size of your fingernail, and in it is carved thousands or millions, in some cases billions of tiny which flip circuits on or off, on and off. And when they're on, they produce a one. When they're off, they produce a zero, and all of the ones and zeros, undergirding computing, all of your Instagram likes, these are all just long which are created on the chip by these circuits flipping on and off. Before transistors, which were sort of light bulb-like devices that would turn on and off, on and off, to produce the ones and zeros. They were cutting edge for their time, but they had huge inefficiencies. They wasted a lot of heat, for example, they worked pretty slowly, and they also, because they created light, attracted moths. And so computers had to in the early days of computing, which meant removing moths from the lights that In the middle of the 20th century, William Shockley, John invented the first transistor while they were working at Bell Labs, It was part of AT&amp;T at the time. - [Narrator] Invented at the laboratories, the transistor brought Bell scientists, one of the two Nobel prizes they have won for discoveries in physics. - [Chris] They were initially planning to use these transistors as - [Narrator] Though it for the betterment of the versatile transistor now appears in a staggering variety - [Chris] Individual transistors in a way that was okay if you but if you had a thousand you had a jungle of The first chips were invented by engineers working at Texas Instruments and a company called in Silicon Valley. The first engineers realized that you could take multiple transistors and make them on a single piece And so that was the first chip, a piece of material with carved into it. - [Narrator] This single then sliced and diced. The objective: semiconductors. Patterns are made by and then micro-machined to produce nearly 1,700 - [Chris] And so the jungle of connections was replaced by a single which was much more reliable and also much more easy At first, they were building chips primarily for the US government, for the space program for example, and for weapons systems. But they realized early on you could take the exact same chips that the government and use them for commercial applications like computers or pocket calculators. And that set the industry off into its first phase of - [Narrator] All the calculator know-how you'll probably ever need. - [Chris] Over time a new Intel, for example, was founded in 1969. And it quickly focused on making chips for personal computers, which at the time was a very small market, but they correctly bet that soon everyone would have And Intel, even today, is the world's largest producer Gordon Moore was one of the He's most famous today probably for coining the term Moore's Law. Moore's Law is not a law of nature. It's not a law of physics. It's really a law of economics. Moore's Law predicts that the and as a result of the computing every couple of years. And that's been empirically If you're able to find a way to shrink, shrink your transistors smaller, you will be able to find And that has incentivized in improving manufacturing processes, in making chemicals more purified, which means that the capabilities of chips have gotten vastly better and continued to get much, much better at a faster rate than anything else. So I like to think, for example, of airplanes to illustrate the difference. If airplanes doubled in from the 1960s up to the present, we'd be flying faster literally But chips have done that. Chips have increased in that capability because the scale of the Chips today are measured in nanometers, and so that makes them only far smaller than a bacteria, smaller than a mitochondria, half the size, for the most of a coronavirus. There's basically nothing we When you go inside one of called fabs, what you find is that and not much else, because humans are way too imprecise for manufacturing at nanometer scale. The machines that make chips And they cost so much because they require some of the most precise like a mirror that's the flattest mirror humans have ever made, a laser that's the most in a commercial device, and a ball of tin that and then is struck twice by that laser, explodes into a plasma measuring of the surface of the sun, and this plasma emits light 13.5 nanometers, to be in exactly the right geometry and land on your chip to carve the transistors into the silicon. It's the most complex that humans have ever made, and it's required to make all And that has enabled the both in terms of the in high-powered data but also the application of computing to all sorts of devices. Today, there's computing everywhere. It's in your dishwasher, it's in your coffee and it's possible to because today it's so cheap, we can produce it almost for free. The chip industry was a global industry from really the earliest days. Because chipmaking requires and hugely complex equipment, everyone requires a set of partnerships to give them the materials, and the software, and to produce advanced chips. So in the US right now, most of the key chip Most of the manufacturing of chips happens in East Asia, in Taiwan, Many of the chemicals that go into chipmaking come from Japan. And the machines that come from either Silicon Valley where some of them are still made, or the Netherlands, or Japan. So the industry has globalized, but it's also specialized in the process. And so there's not a single region today that can make cutting-edge If you take for example, the primary processor it was probably made in Taiwan, but it was made in Taiwan from the Netherlands, and and from Japan. It was produced using And then often assembled before ending up inside And that's typical. During the pandemic, the supply and demand dynamics were out of whack. A lot of people ordered new computers, for example, to work from home, and so PC production shot up or people bought fewer cars in the early days of the pandemic and so car production declined. And companies couldn't predict what type of chip they would need. The effect of that was to create shortages of Car companies in particular found they couldn't get the types of chips that they rely on. The thing about cars if your car often doesn't work. And during the pandemic, car companies found themselves Just a a single chip, often even the cheapest to have to leave cars in while they waited for That created hundreds of for manufacturers like automakers. And that matters because the shortages we saw in comparison to the if something happened to like those in Taiwan. The biggest chipmaker in the world is the Taiwan Semiconductor When it comes to advanced processor chips, like the chips in your phone TSMC makes around 90% of them. In 1987, there was an American The Taiwanese approached him and said, would you like to build And he said, &quot;Yes.&quot; At the time, most chips were by the same companies. But he established TSMC in Taiwan with the aim never of designing chips, only of manufacturing. That's exactly what TSMC has done and it's enabled TSMC to some of the largest Apple, Nvidia, Qualcomm, AMD, they all rely on TSMC which means that TSMC is the largest chipmaker They've got an extraordinary market share and are arguably the most because the chips that they produce, we rely on for basically everything. - [Reporter] China and ever since Chiang Kai-shek and what was left of the Nationalist Army fled the mainland for - [Chris] Anything that disrupted would be catastrophic Especially if China carries through on the threats it regularly makes to use force against Taiwan - [Reporter] China fired right over the island and encircled it with warships to prove it can strangle - Even a small move, a small conflict, would be disastrous for the chip industry because Taiwan needs to import energy, it needs to import spare parts from Japan, from energy coming in from the Middle East. And if any of this is disrupted, chip production could break down. And if chip production that matters for everyone, because everyone uses Both China and the US see to the technology competition China's worried that because it relies on importing chips from Taiwan and from Korea, it's gonna be cut off in the future from getting to the chips that it needs. And right now, that's already The US is limiting the ability to sell their most And the aim of these regulations is to give US firms an advantage, to make sure that US and that the US gets to write the rules of how AI will play out. Today, China's the world's They spend as much money as they spend importing oil. There's nothing that China's more reliant on the outside world to purchase. Right now, the most is about five years behind TSMC. Which might not sound like a lot, but that's 2 1/2 Moore's Laws behind TSMC, which means that for the you really take a performance hit if you want to use a Chinese manufacturer versus a Taiwanese one. And that's the US goal to kind of throw sand in the and hope that the US can The biggest change in has been the explosion I think the release of encouraged all the big tech firms to spend tens of billions of dollars building vast AI infrastructure, which means data centers full of the most capable semiconductors. One of the key trends in more advanced systems require being trained on larger volumes of data. If you wanna train a system on more data, you need more computing power, which means better chips to train it. And so today, companies like OpenAI or millions and millions and training their AI systems. And most of that budget buying ultra-advanced semiconductors from companies like Nvidia. One of the key challenges to drive down the cost To make AI really widespread we need the cost of we don't even think about it. It's sort of like Google search today. No one thinks what's the because it's approximately zero. Google spends a bit of but it's so low, you don't Today, AI is actually pretty expensive. A single query to ChatGPT is There are a lot of how do you do deployment more efficiently. Nvidia's chips, which are at the center of the AI ecosystem right now, are pretty general purpose They can train many and are useful both for training But if you design a chip or a specific type of deployment, you can make it perfectly And so a lot of startups right now are looking at individual workloads or individual deployment we're gonna design a chip that's perfectly tweaked This is startups tackling this industry, but it's also big tech companies. Facebook, Microsoft, Google, they're all designing their because they know the specific workloads that are inside their data centers and they've realized if they design chips specifically they can operate more than a general purpose AI Which I think is gonna be really important in making AI cheap enough to make a major impact on the economy. When I look at the surge of investment in AI chips right now, I see no reason to doubt that Moore's Law won't continue for a very long time. That means more advanced chips, which means more computing power that we can apply to all sorts of uses, AI and all sorts of devices. And that means we'll be using because the trend has been that as chips get better, they get cheaper, and we put them in more Today, if your car has a thousand chips, I wouldn't be surprised in a decade. And that basic trend is true