It's the world's most remote and isolated It's home to glaciers, mountains, plants, noteworthy for what it doesn't have. In modern Antarctica, there aren't any trees, or amphibians! At all! But, it wasn't always like this. Thanks to plate tectonics, Antarctica has at various points in deep time. As a matter of fact, before the start of the was still joined to both Australia and South And the fossil record tells us that, in the place, very different from the continent we Palm trees thrived there, as did flowering hoofed mammals and marsupials. And because of the way it was situated, Antarctica path for the ancestors of some of the southern wallabies and kangaroos. Eventually, of course, the lush environment cold, glacier-covered landmass that it is by the most powerful ocean currents on the But it turns out that a lot of what we recognize those famously unique animals of Australia was green. If you could travel back in time and visit thing you'd notice would probably be the Off the coast of Wilkes Land, in eastern Antarctica, pollen and spores -- from ancient palm trees And they've also found pollen from other today. The traces of these warm-weather plants can back then. Since these palms and other trees can't think that, in the early Eocene, the coast with little to no frost. By one estimate, the mean annual temperature Celsius, with an average winter temperature So, how could ancient Antarctica have been Well, for one thing, the Eocene wasn't the so mild. Scientists have found sporomorphs and other that date way back to the Devonian Period, And in the early Jurassic Period, about 190 home for dinosaurs like the long-necked Glacialisaurus In those days, Antarctica was just one small was located a bit farther north than it is But by about 100 million years ago, most of had migrated to the bottom of the world. By the early Eocene, the western part of Antarctica but the eastern part was still mostly linked And right around this time, the world was This event is known as the Paleocene-Eocene about it, because the theories about what really complex, fascinating, and little scary During this period, the global average temperature years or less! And as the world's climate changed, so did Tropical trees like palms, as well as ferns continent, including Antarctica. And mind you, Antarctica is a really big place; easily fit inside its boundaries! So given its size, it was able to support Farther inland, and at higher elevations, found from plants that are normally found trees. It's also been suggested that some areas even experienced monsoons, getting more than And of course, plants didn't have the whole On Seymour Island, off the Antarctic Peninsula, of ancient dung beetles. Those are balls of dung that female beetles So if these beetles were rolling dung balls Well, some of it came from ancient marsupials! Fragmentary remains and isolated teeth tell in Western Antarctica. Judging by their teeth, it seems that some as the modern colocolo opossum, a small and America. Another Antarctic marsupial was Antarctodolops. First described in 1984, this opossum-like discovered in the continent's fossil record. Its ancestors most likely came over from South Other residents of Eocene Antarctica probably For example, a single contentious toe bone that includes modern-day sloths--might have Xenarthrans originally evolved in South America, that's been found in western Antarctic, The teeth of this creature tell us that it branches and maybe eating the occasional sapling. Not many specimens have been found, but we Notiolofos in Antarctica. Judging by the sizes of their teeth, the bigger while its smaller cousin was about one-fourth And the fact that these two species had such both been specialists, eating different types each other. Another big hoofed mammal known from Eocene or "Antarctic Tooth." Scientists think it was a kind of astrapothere, American herbivores. The only Antarctodon fossils that have turned But more complete skeletons of other astrapotheres tapirs. Some species had self-sharpening canine teeth nuts. Others may have been semiaquatic, like modern-day And paleontologists think Antarctodon was into Antarctica from South America. So, these and the other animals that shared to paleontologists. Because, Antarctica's fossil record isn't and many of the bones that we do find are Still, the coexistence of all these Eocene to a variety of land mammals. But why isn't that the case anymore? What happened to Green Antarctica? Well, while Antarctica's land mammals were loomed on the horizon. Scientists are still working out the timeline of events, but they think that, by about 56 had pulled away from each other. Then by about 40 million years ago, Antarctica seaway. This expanse of water--which still exists And at some point, another seaway formed, Peninsula, sometime between 36 million and So as time wore on, Antarctica went from being to being an isolated continent. The stage was set for a dominant new force Current, or ACC. This current still swirls around Antarctica, on earth. Its volume is 1000 times bigger than the Amazon speed of 40 centimeters per second in some Propelled by winds and unimpeded by land, farther north, keeping them away from the It also dredges cold water from the ocean And those two factors work together, creating Climatologists think that the ACC is between But there's not a lot of agreement about affected the drop in temperatures -- and the What we do know is that the late Eocene and At high latitudes in both hemispheres, temperatures Around the world, atmospheric carbon dioxide of it were being absorbed by marine plankton This may have contributed to the worldwide And the formation of the ACC could've forced Regardless, we know that from about 36.5 million across the continent. As ice blanketed Antarctica's surface, many A study of fossil plant samples from the Cross found that its plant diversity dropped by middle Eocene. Slowly, warmth-loving trees and ferns found These were dominated by Southern Beech trees, since the late Cretaceous Period, based on And even their days were numbered. Their sporomorphs tell us that there were as 2.5 million years ago. But today, it's a treeless continent, a consist of hardy mosses, grasses, lichens Clearly, Antarctica's biodiversity took And yet, life continued to flourish on its After they split with Antarctica, South America the rest of the world for millions of years. And those two continents had something special New World opossums originated in South America and North America. Meanwhile, Australia is world-famous for its wallabies and the now-extinct Thylacine. And DNA evidence suggests that the common South America about 70 to 80 million years So, from there, marsupials spread through three continents were still connected. And as evidence of this journey, they left of the mammals that Australia is famous for So even though Antarctica has lost its big for life. Which is why, even today, our world retains Antarctica was green. Hey Fam! PBS Digital Studios wants to hear from YOU. We do a survey every year that asks about Eons... and things you'd like to see more You even get to vote on potential new shows! All of this helps us make more of the stuff The survey takes about ten minutes, and you Link is in the description. Thanks for watching Eons, which is produced If you want to keep imagining the world complexly Intelligence hosted by Jabril Ashe. Over the course of 20 episodes, we'll unpack write and implement code in labs to program Check out the first video about the history today! The link is in the description. And gotta give a shout out to this month's Jon Davison Ng, and Steve! To join them and our other Eonites, go pledge Also thanks for joining me in the Konstantin If you like what we do here, then subscribe