Hi, I'm Toby, and welcome back to the joy filmed one of these, but I'm so glad that you're through mathematics. I'm going to run some things to understand in this video. But mostly, we Some people do this through drawing, we are going to get a private tour of an imaginary Before I introduce you, let me tell I remember a kid in my class at school, saying about. He said that the teacher had told him about and called negative numbers. I was doubtful. I thought that if it was true, then the Maybe I felt a little hurt that or that I was missing out on something. Perhaps Of course, I eventually found out that negative experience several years later, in high school I think it was the careers counsellor. He teachers lesson plan. But towards the end veered guys heard of imaginary numbers? We hadn't. and labelled one real and the other imaginary. Maybe I was yet to really understand of these mysterious new numbers. I had again A long time later, I would realise that are in fact, similar in the way that they extend ideas that prove to be useful. Where the negatives the imaginary unit i comes from asking what the Now it's in the best interests of you and I to our actions have real consequences. So we should you to my imaginary friends now. And whilst this track of how many imaginary friends we have. At to the zero. And it's one of those quirky the power of zero is equal to one. This solution we're not going anywhere. And we have to stay imaginary friends, Ignatio, with him, we So without first friend, we can now travel It's wonderful in here, but now I'm My second imaginary friend, Iguana we have negative one. I'm back in the real and it's so sad out here. I could get help from But there's not really anyone out here. I could With three imaginary friends in total, But we end up being underground. And will bring us back out to the positive This is all you need to know, to travel we can show our story on a map, where we're and minus i. And that is because multiplying by we met had been a gang of negative numbers, then This flipping shows that multiplying by An imaginary friend takes us to a pit stop in multiplying by i is a rotation of 90 degrees, And if we do it four times, we get back where as well, we would see a clockwise rotation This ability to multiply and move around in a modelling things that are circular in nature, or imaginary at all. Some people just have trouble in imaginary numbers or not. They are right It says mind boggling as decimals to early mathematicians. Some never got to Larger friends such as two i, three i, and But what about the rest of the plane? Well, yes, bit more complicated. This is the complex plane, two parts, a real part and an imaginary part. To here at one plus i, we are halfway Let's see a use for multiplying complex numbers. Say you go for a walk in the forest, At first you walk along the path laid But you realise this isn't right, and you want you work this out? Well, normally, you could do need to carry a protractor with you to work out by one plus i, which we already know is a rotation is equal to eight plus eight i plus two i plus two that term becomes equal to minus two, and we end laid out in the direction of six plus 10 i, will Introducing imaginary friends has given us an tool for performing rotations. These friends might but each one is still special. I'm proud of the electromagnetic wave. The electric field and and their magnitude and time variation are to the imaginary part and the electric wave waves in one equation and capture the way that To meet some more imaginary friends to head over video. Brilliant is a place to learn in a fun and pals Julia and Mandelbrot in a course on complex the topic with visits to complex multiplication, formula. It's great that you're on YouTube now But to solidify your knowledge as real, the best Brilliant's website and app are built off the have something for everyone. So if you'd like and educators today, click the link in the Safe travels to your imaginary world. I hope Thank you to my Patreon supporters, and a special