[GUN RELOADING] E3 2001, when we saw Halo, It's crashing, it's buggy, It seemed like Microsoft bit off DREW ANGELOFF: At each build, KIKI WOLFKILL: Like at some point Honestly, we were just focused on, how do we get this thing TINA SUMMERFORD: DREW ANGELOFF: This is our lead title KEVIN BACHUS: If this thing fails, Xbox was finished. [EXPLOSION] REPORTER: There's a new contender ROBBIE BACH: Xbox is going to be.... -The future. -MALE REPORTER: Xbox. J.: Limitless, connected You guys never understood! REPORTER: The company is going GAMER: Sniper. Nooo! N'GAI CROAL: It's a ticking time bomb. It makes me very nervous FEMALE REPORTER: A bold vision for the figure of gaming. It's the Xbooooooox! [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [STATIC AND TYPING] Soon, you will be food. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] JOSEPH STATEN: that people weren't quite sure A first-person shooter. And the framerate was terrible. HALO MONSTER: Come on, make my day! [GUNFIRE AND SCREAMING] All of a sudden we were in a new area, and what do we know about console games? GEORGE PECKHAM: you know, &quot;It's not very good, really.&quot; Bungie may be a, but the game wasn't really SOLDIER: NARRATOR: something drastic had to be done So, in a last-ditch effort, put the development team under arrest. [METAL DOOR CLANGS] Ed Fries had put Halo behind the curtain won't let anybody talk to the Bungie team. He's like, &quot;You guys seal yourself off. Literally and metaphorically, Like, our doors, I don't even think Ed I kept saying &quot;Hey, Ed, you know, And he goes, &quot;Oh, not yet.&quot; I mean we only had we had to get this thing into boxes. Good to see you, Master Chief. Things aren't going well. We had to stand up a complete game We had to create a compelling story we had to cut levels, take shortcuts, just a mad rush of long days, full-on, old-school crunch -That's got to hurt. There it is. The one positive thing that comes out of crunch Ultimately that was one of the things that Bungie took very, JOSEPH STATEN: For us, at Bungie, to make the best game possible, you are open to a whole Yeah, dude, that's cool. All right! And Halo had the burden [HALO MUSIC] JOSEPH STATEN: And we had no idea We hoped people would like it. MASTER CHIEF: Here we go. [CROWD CHEERING] But the rubber hits the road CROWD: Ten! Nine! Eight! Seven! -Six! Five! Four! Three! Two! One! [LOUD CHEERING AND HOOTING] -INTERVIEWER: Halo? -INTERVIEWER: Anybody else, Halo? I remember very vividly ONLOOKER: Hold it up! JOSEPH STATEN: Starting to look And then game reviews. And then comments. And realizing, How the hell are we gonna beat this game? Halo, which had problems came out on day one and it was amazing. It was really amazing. N'GAI CROAL: HALO SOLDIER: That you could go anywhere and do anything on this beautiful, lush planet filled with things They just did it so well. The controls felt natural. You could tell like that a breakthrough for first-person shooters. GEORGE PECKHAM: I didn't care I was using a controller, I was in the Halo universe, It was a bit of an epiphany, Like, you can play Awesome! Halo was a phenomenon, Landing on the beach with the Warthog with Master Chief... it just blew me away man. Banshee on flames and is skidding towards me across the ice, And it skids to a stop It was like I was there. It was like I had that experience. RADIO VOICE: Somebody order a Warthog? With Halo, Microsoft had that you had to go out and buy an Xbox and that was something Halo formed so much of the backbone Woo hoo! Xbox! BONNIE ROSS: Watching the feedback the stories people were telling, -You getting Halo? Good. Just checking. Without Halo, you know, we're not here. VOICEOVER: Halo. Combat Evolved. REPORTER: one million copies Fifty percent of Xbox owners Xbox was the Halo box. That's what made it work. Halo broke ground in so many ways. In game control, Even art style. It inspired a lot of people It changed the game for Xbox the way we look at first-person shooters. First-person shooters had only really And mapping those controls It just felt right. LORNE LANNING: no one had nailed it, So before Halo came out, if you wanted to play a shooter because that's where you would have and keyboard to aim, to land that headshot on your enemies. [GUNSHOT] What Bungie did with the help of Microsoft's playtesting is figure out how to get something on a console, where all you have [GUNFIRE AND YELLING] They weren't the first to do a shooter on And the influence of what Microsoft is still being felt in games today. TINA SUMMERFORD: Even today it's And, really because of Halo, Xbox became The multiplayer was transcendent. It was just something that you didn't [GUNFIRE] RYAN MCCAFFREY: Every single Xbox had an Ethernet port You could use it for LAN parties Oh my God! PC gamers understood the joy of the LAN, You make a network of computers which means you have to be face-to-face -I got the flag I'm out the front! And it's a fun experience, and run around and do things just because you're all there, Microsoft ushered that in for consoles. NARRATOR: Manually plugging was not a new concept. But it had always required Now, the communal gaming experience It was for everyone. Right now we have this game going here Downstairs, I was just down there, have at least a sixteen game going there. They keep on bringing in more stuff It was a communal party that you could have and have multiple consoles all connected. We'd get together at like 8AM and play 16-player Halo all the way I remember running so I could have a friend I'd go to my buddy's house we're in four different rooms TINA SUMMERFORD: &quot;You looked at my screen.&quot; Don't look at my screen. GAMER: I can't! I can't see your screen! We'd make a little flyer at work Bring an Xbox, That changed everything about And these, by the way, weren't small TVs. These were the big cathode ray TVs that I had a heavy-ass TV. Flat screens weren't around back then. -You got it? So I bought a PT Cruiser just That was a fashion statement back in the days, with that big screen. -Gimme a second. Gimme a second. I know it's my foot... Ow! I remember playing nonstop and just The minute you stepped into a multiplayer You just got sucked in. And we would play all night long. It provided me an experience I had NARRATOR: Halo was a runaway hit, putting Microsoft in the big leagues But the team wasn't done. They saw a way to take those multi-room Sniper. Sniper! Ohhhh! The initial concept for Xbox Live was one of those magical ideas, that I call Epic [BLEEP] Pitches. Because they're pitches that even they planted a seed of ideas that had an impact on the entire industry. Maybe an impact on global culture. AARON GREENBERG: and the idea was is now we can actually have a networked community to living room around the world no matter where you are in the world, and we can all be part and that vision was like [BLEEP] awesome. Yes! There definitely was some skepticism multiplayer games over the Internet. ROBBIE BACH: Xbox Live is like a vague fog Nobody knew how that was gonna work, a good ecosystem, and whether And it became a huge point of tension in terms of how it was designed But we're gonna do it. Microsoft is putting literally billions But the program was fraught with risk. It required technology anywhere in the industry before. And those kind of tech investments NARRATOR: With so much riding the team couldn't afford to develop it If they wanted to deliver they needed gamers to tell them DAVID HUFFORD: We went out around the United States. One of the things that came back was that voice communications You know, it is a good day Nobody wanted to sit there just taking out their buddies. AARON GREENBERG: The first thing was it had a headset in it, it's like... You were talking about console gaming. What are you supposed to do GAMER: The Xbox communicator. It lets you talk to other gamers This broke down the barriers You simply banged on your headset, in the world that was on the platform. GAME COMMENTATOR: Back to throw! PEYTON MANNING: Your defense is offensive. Your defense is offensive? Building that global couch and kind of virtually elbow each other, [GAMERS SPEAKING JAPANESE] with four gamers on four continents through headsets just as if they were This was before Skype. So the notion of low-latency, we had to go build out that tech. GAMER: I like this one, you get your own -That's a good idea. DAVID HUFFORD: for gamers to play in over generations. We knew it was important ah, that linked to you, where you could Your gamertag. It's your identity on Xbox Live, in this brand new gaming universe. Remember, you're building all your stats Rather than have a gamertag for Madden and a separate gamertag you just want to be known as one thing. My gamertag is TheRealB. My gamertag is Cowboy22. My gamertag is HeroProtagonist. -It's KingDoug. Xbox Live wanted to bring that fundamental instant fun You will never be without a game It was a revolution in online gaming. NARRATOR: They had the technical knowhow But on the other side of that challenge, If they built it, would gamers pay for it? FRANK O'CONNOR: The technology was in the we just didn't know how it was gonna fly. That firstly someone's gonna pay but they also have to go tell Ah, I've never been shy and there was one time and we ended up arguing about it and it was me saying, is the dumbest idea I've ever heard. Like I hate this idea. Somebody's gonna pay 50 dollars for, for multiplayer games And people did laugh &quot;Why would you pay for access because It wasn't just me, of people saying &quot;What, are you nuts?&quot; So this experience had to be amazing. That was crazy to people. multiplayer if they have to pay for it. REPORTER: Microsoft is taking the Xbox -Xbox Live. Microsoft is putting the Xbox online. Today the Xbox goes live. REPORTER: Hasselbeck at his in Seattle, each other in a video game, Oh, sit down! Son, don't your coaches tell you That is quarterback 101. Last night, we had gamers playing against celebrities here in LA We're checking the perimeter. All right. So here I go. Xbox Live launched exactly one year after the original Xbox itself The launch of Xbox Live Blow up and kill everything in sight. That's the idea man, I'm gonna open up a can of whoop-ass The two launch titles Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, and MechAssault, which was a third-person Just lightbulbs went off, Live let us add the element of community CHRIS CHARLA: that this was gonna be like What Live did for Xbox that once you got into it and I met so many people online playing games that I never woulda been cool with, me beatin' him, him beatin' me, And there's an extraordinary number of like 50-year-old males and they will not go to another system So they're only gonna buy a system while the kids are sleeping Call of Duty or something right? Every night me and my homies be on a party with about 15 to 20 of us, and talkin' about what happened and it's just like a great gossip line GAME COMMENTATOR: What a nice play! We had forecasted how many Xbox Live subscribers month 1, month 2, month 6, et cetera. Hey we got 50,000, hey we got 100,000. Hey, we got a million, hey we got And that happened, like, like, I wouldn't say instantly, It happened very, very fast. Xbox Live was unprecedented. Everybody else's version What you think of gaming today, talking with friends, playing games, because it is commonplace now, Xbox Live could be considered one Before Facebook, even before Myspace, the very first interactive Quite frankly, Microsoft proved was going to be the key to the future. NARRATOR: that even took optimists But while the platform was teeming their college buddies there was one consistent complaint. What happened to the game Where was Halo? When we started working the weight of expectation Halo 2 had to be a blockbuster movie. And that was always a danger is, big triple-A spectacle, made Halo a success in the first place? Goddamn we have a lot of work to do, Everybody on the team had a different idea We loved that you could get into vehicles, that you couldn't, like, and jump into their vehicle So boarding vehicles SOLDIER: Look out! We were really good We weren't quite as good and figuring out how to right-size fit 'em into a box, When I got there, they had reached a point in development gonna have to cut half the game, on a lot of the promises Within a year, Just the way the game felt He looked at the game. [BLEEP] this. ED FRIES: And he came to me I'm gonna have to rework and it's effectively gonna add Jason help! JOSEPH STATEN: How can we ship a better game than Halo? And from Microsoft's point of view, how can you ship that game This is now by far the most You know this is Halo, Jason saying he needs a new year, time I do know that Ed went to bat for us. Ed was very much a purist. He was about creating great games the time they need, sometimes with actually making a profit. So, to me it was a no-brainer. But ah, Robbie wanted to put it in front of the other leads on the team, it's gonna affect, you know, it would affect the continued marketing JOSEPH STATEN: Microsoft back then Software, shipping on time, at quality, was a big part ED FRIES: and Robbie basically goes around the room And it went around the room and everybody I walked out of the room and basically Robbie gave in. He calmed me down and he agreed NARRATOR: Ed got the Bungie team But the delayed launch Really that Bungie meeting When I walked out of there, it was the first time I could I had been there since I was in college. I had a lot of stuff going on in my life. About to turn 40. and made plenty of money Within the next six months I quit. NARRATOR: In January 2004, while Bungie set out to finish to one of the most popular titles The extra year Fries bought them Not only did it elevate the game, New... Level. [LOUD CHEERING] The lead-up to Halo 2, I had never It was genuinely a pop-culture event, 7,000 stores are opening on midnight. They've been waiting a long time for this. They were chanting, &quot;Halo 2! &quot; Halo 2! Halo 2! It just felt like something new Because Halo 2 is the best, Xbox's Halo 2 is expected to generate than day 1 sales of any full-feature movie Halo 2 is probably, you know, phenomenons to ever hit my life, It was the biggest day REPORTER: Halo 2 sold 2.4 million units in 24 hours. Here was a video game, for the first time It was a coming of age story This game is simply I played Halo 2 with my friends That's how transformative and what it did for Xbox Live, NARRATOR: and a full-blown cultural it seemed like Microsoft's Xbox was even surpassing On a winning streak, on an industry-changing When I arrived at Microsoft, that the gamer was gonna be using this, and how do you continue We started then to plan this multibillion dollar investment, Xbox 360 is the new entertainment system that's designed around high def, And it doesn't stop there. It's totally personalizable so you can change the way it works, and find your friends KEVIN PEREIRA: When they unveiled the 360, with a stunning interface, with a focus This was all stuff that they had with the original Xbox and Xbox Live into the core experience of the console. HARJIT SINGH: Xbox 360 was than the original Xbox. To achieve that, we had to push technology and solutions that didn't exist We had to go explore things As opposed to leveraging and existing technologies, a brand-new processor So we were taking a lot more VOICEOVER: At the heart of the Xbox 360 DAVID HUFFORD: Whatever you'd heard Emotion Engine, you know, you had created in your head, a leapfrog product that said, This is the most powerful And so, we evolved the Xbox that plays all the games you love, to all your friends this digital entertainment lifestyle. PETER MOORE: We involved movies. We got content generated The magic in Xbox 360 is, it does Xbox 360 guide? It is your launch pad VOICEOVER: Here you can store We've also added a new concept Sort of a record of everything across your entire library of games. With Xbox 360, we've created technology and every corner of the planet A product with games at its core, connected digital entertainment. [APPLAUSE] JEFF HENSHAW: Everything we were trying We're really focusing hardcore on building an online experience PETER MOORE: Gaming was always first. But this was no longer just the ability This was breakthrough thinking. We built Xbox 360 with a mission. They showed it as a media hub You could connect other devices to it, You can do this, that, the other. They were building this thing REPORTER: Microsoft's new Xbox 360 will be It's huge. The next generation We wanted to try something new -Xbox rules, man! -Woo! -MAN: Did you drive far? -And Kansas City. -Los Angeles, Hollywood. Orlando, Florida. It's the only way [DRUMMING] Hey this is Xbox Live's Major Nelson, we're here at Zero Hour Hey guys, you ready to go? [CROWD SHOUTING] Tonight marks the biggest gaming event Zero Hour was this in-person fan I was at G4 at the time, that they were just gonna throw It's the Xbox 360! I'm hexed! JEN MARTIN: And decked it out TINA SUMMERFORD: We are seconds away and all of these people getting a chance And as the doors start to open, you knew that you're about to run in -Are you ready? And we basically said, &quot;Hey, come here and you're gonna be and we're gonna sell you I want Xbox! TINA SUMMERFORD: Thousands of gamers came. People that had met on Xbox Live that had never actually seen People were so happy. It was a magical launch event. AARON GREENBERG: The Zero Hour event was We had so much pride in this product. Was this a transcendent moment for you? Oh yes. NARRATOR: spilled into the rest of the country, as the console became available CHRIS CHARLA: I waited in line in like outside this Best Buy to try and get I was so stoked They had a great launch lineup, It had the features It had the games for casual gamers, The Xbox 360 Marketplace Sure you had Steam but this was a managed, curated portfolio, And we were one I start downloading games, and I download, and like all of a sudden everybody's and I'm like, okay, we were sitting here, and I just got on the Internet and now we're playing Huh? Ah! This is the future, and this is what this MAN: I can view my profile, so I can see and it's got the whole It was the first console We take that for granted now and your gamerscore and your rating. You achieved something in the game and that something is whatever Hey, did you scale this mountain, did you Somebody could play through the game but if you wanted to really complete it GAME CHARACTER: Kick some ass. SCOTT PORTER: I've got 148,000 gamerscore. People are like, &quot;What is that? Why do you, why do you care?&quot; Because it's something that reminds me all the games that I've played, I feel like I've accomplished something. They had an incredible console that was built for always online, that ran on top of everything Mine, finally! TIM STUART: with great games, And so we felt we had Yeah, we were riding high, we were KEVIN PEREIRA: They had arrived. They had to gain the trust of developers. They had to make a statement that they belonged at this party, of all of the lessons that they had I think 360 was finally and Seamus PETER MOORE: Gamers were looking to see And we thought that we did. We needed to be seen And this all needed Unfortunately, [OMINOUS MUSIC] GAMER: This is called an E74 error? Contact Xbox Customer Support. It was in the forums and I started I think there's something going on here. DAVID HUFFORD: are coming from the games press who are hearing from gamers, &quot;I'm having a problem with my box.&quot; GAMER: You can feel the top We could hear retailers starting to say... &quot;There's an issue here.&quot; With the 360, amazing and special, What the [BLEEP]! ...that could kill the Xbox. And all the work that they had done [CRASHING SOUND]