- Okay, y'all. You know one of the best parts of a meal, especially a Thanksgiving meal, is bread. I have to have a good bread because before the day's over, I'm going to make me a turkey sandwich with extra mayonnaise on it. It is so good. In fact, I gobbled down so I can get to me a That's how much I like them. So I'm going to share with Now, this is in my first cook- no, this is in my second But if you have &quot;Kitchen Classics&quot;, it will also be in that book. So &quot;Kitchen Classics&quot; or All right, now I'm just and I'm gonna let that (clears throat) Excuse me. In 2/3 of a cup. No, 3/4 of a cup, sorry. Now what is it? (Eddie chuckles) Let me make sure I get this right. - [Theresa] Three quarters of a cup? - Three quarters of a cup. And that's exactly what I have. All right. So I'm just going to dissolve that, and I've already measured Come on, start dissolving baby. I've got two and a half cups of- I'm using &quot;My biscuit&quot; mix because I think it's just incredible. But if you don't have with another biscuit mix, real But you can also go to the store, right? The Paula Deen store, and you can find it in but it is truly, it makes the best biscuit, and don't use anything but buttermilk, and that buttermilk to that biscuit that we all love so much. All right, so back to yeast rolls. So I've got a little bit of sugar, let's see how much I have. I have one teaspoon of sugar. - [Theresa] Is it tablespoon? No, I think it says a teaspoon, but don't judge by my eyes y'all. Yeah, it's one teaspoon of sugar. All right. I've got a half a teaspoon, so let me get the- Okay. So we got our and now we're just going to stir this up. And the reason I love this recipe, y'all, is because, you can do like just one step and you are ready to roll your dough up, and then we're gonna and we're gonna let it rise. So let's see if our yeast is dissolved. I think it's dissolved pretty good. And when you pour your yeast water, and you want to just mix, mix, mix, as fast as you can. So here we go. Stir, stir, stir, stir, stir, stir. (chuckles) Do y'all love yeast bread? You know, it's just- it brings me back to school. Did y'all's school cafeterias up North Eddy? - [Eddy] No. I don't- - Oh honey, you'd have known it. - [Theresa] We didn't have it either. - No. We had homemade yeast rolls from the first through the 12th grade, and you're talking about - [Theresa] Really? - Yes. Okay. So I got this mixed All right now, I have decided for my yeast rolls, I'm going to cook them in a muffin tin. So, you want to lightly (spraying) There we go. And you can make these into I'm going to sit that right there because we've got to pull this out on a cutting board and like 15 to 20 times. (indistinct) I mean. We don't have to wait we can get it all done just this quick. And who doesn't want good, I do what I do. Okay. You think we've - [Theresa] I would say yes. - I would say yes too. You know, there are some rolls that you would kind of do like this and make two layers and (Eddy chuckles) We'll have to do that one day y'all. - [Theresa] That's croissant, isn't it? Like a croissant type? - Yeah croissant- - Has so much butter in it. - [Theresa] Yum. - Okay. So I didn't count, but I think I did that 15 to 20 times. So this is supposed to make how many? 15 rolls. - [Theresa] Those are - Yeah. So I'm gonna drop that in. So we'll see. I may actually get more than- more than 15. Just depends on how big you do them. Pretty, pretty, pretty. This is some pretty dough. All right now. I think he's (chuckles) So we're going to cover these. When we get done, we're going and we're gonna let them rise- Oh, I did. I got him way too big. That's going to be my roll, (laughs) but I'm gonna cut him down. Okay. Then we're going to and we're going to let them And like I say, they're in a warm place. I'm probably going to cause I have things in the oven so it's producing heat for me. Now it's a little big too. I couldn't remember So, really depends on your pinchure, you know how much you're pinching off. These are going to be delicious. And then we're going Oops! Get back up here roll. We're going to butter these as soon as we take them out of the oven. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. All right. So when I wrote I must make not bigger rolls (chuckles) because we going to get more than 15. We've only got three, six, nine, twelve. No, it's going to work out about right. We're going to need another muffin tin. I wonder, you know, most of my So I don't know if we bought an eight, an eight count muffin tin or not. - [Theresa] I don't think we did. - I don't think we did either, Theresa. - [Theresa] Because I think and we know what we brought. - No, do you know what though, I will just make these on a little pan, the rest of them and stick it in there. - [Theresa] Perfect. - Whoa. - [Eddy] And make just one big one- - Oh just one big one. Okay. (Eddy laughs) You want one big one? Okay. - [Theresa] It'll be like What is Ryan's, remember like a Ryan's? - Oh my gosh. Yes. But look what I'm going - [Theresa] Oh. (Deen laughs) - [Theresa] We'll see. - I'm going to cheat a little. - [Theresa] Now we're over that one roll. - This one hot roll. (laughs) After that I'm gonna just - [Theresa] Now, do you need a wet rag? - No. Oh yes. I do have to have a damp rag. So look- - [Eddy] Some right there in- - Yes, right down here or in there or somewhere. Okay. So that puppy's gonna rise, rise and shine. And I'm just gonna put him- I think on a little paper plate. He didn't want to leave me. - [Theresa] I wouldn't either if I put all that butter on there. (Deen laughs) I mean, come on, it's smart. - Bon Appetit y'all. (chuckles) All right. Now I'm going for our fat boy. - [Theresa] You think or does he need his own rug? - I don't know. (chuckles) Let's just try tissue. - [Theresa] You see, this will be our experiment. - [Deen] Yes. - [Theresa] I'll double, how about that? (Deen laughs) - Okay y'all, it's actually Look at this big boy that I made for Eddy and me and Theresa. I'm gonna just bake that off in there. So these have been rising and they look beautiful. Oh, this Pan's not hot. So in the oven this goes. We're going to bake these for about 12 to 15 minutes, so I'm going to set it for 12 minutes, and then I'm going to check them and if they're done we're gonna and taste. So, 12 minutes is a magical number for Bobby's oven. Look at the jumble, Eddy. - [Eddy] If you could just pipe that smell - Yes. - [Eddy] Through the airwaves. (laughs) Yes, yes, yes. - [Eddy] I think it could (Eddy chuckles) - Oh my goodness. Yes. Look at those beautiful Now I tell y'all to brush it with butter, but as it turns out, I don't have a brush here So I'm just going to spoon it on top of every one of those muffins or yeast rolls. It's just in the shape of a muffin, I thought that they might if I could put them in a confined spot, which is what the muffin pans do. Oh Eddy, are you swallowing hard yet? (Eddy chuckles) (Deen laughs) I'm swallowing hard. Okay. So should we cut the big boy? Let's do that. Let's cut big boy and you and I have it. How does that sound? All right. There's your half. Ouch! Don't don't. Ouch! (laughs) - [Eddy] Don't touch the pan- - Don't touch the pan. (laughing) Okay. And remember how I stuck butter. Look at the steam coming up. (laughs) - [Eddy] Yeah, that one - This would have made It's so hot, Eddy. I can't. (both chuckling) If I'm going to be at the evening, share a sample with everybody. - [Eddy] Well, let's just sit - [Deen] Okay. (both laughing) It's nothing, nothing like They smell so delicious. My biscuit mix makes a great starter, for whatever kind of whether you want to make, and you want to make yeast rolls, do it. Now, I'm going to see what I've got in the Okay, look what I found, Eddy. I found blackberry preserves. (laughs) Eddy got the top off after right Eddy? - [Eddy] You did. - Cause he just took All right. So this is and oh- oh my goodness we love And they'll just grow wild, you can stop in a field and most likely find some You just have to be careful because snakes hang not because they want a blackberry, but because they want the little birds that feed off the blackberries. So, if you're around blackberry bushes be very careful. (chuckles) Eddy, can I go ahead and- they're starting to cool down. So I'm going to put you a little blackberry your yeast roll, so we can eat it at the same time. - [Eddy] It's almost like - It's almost like what? - [Eddy] Having a hot jelly donut. - I just needed a little bit more butter.