This video I have a question for you. Have you ever seen one of these? It's a Pik!-oh. it's a pikmindae rubrus Unlike the universal Love and praise, fantasy adventure, or the cozy ambiance from Animal Crossing Has always been when the characters look so cute? a fool's perspective. Pikmin is much more than what it seems. At a glance, you'd think Oh, for me to snuggle up with my blankie and be wholesome WRONG! pikmin isn't animal crossing or the sims. Or one of those 10,000 It's [PIKMIN] on the surface, it might seem that way, This franchise is not for the faint Literally, philosophically, So follow me down this Pikmin rabbit for people who do their taxes yaknow. it's your life. alright. Let's talk about this in the most literal People who grew up playing Pikmin but there's more people who grew up Are also old! I went from 13 to 23 in the ten year I mean it would be weird As someone who fell in love I'm a totally different person now and the vast majority of people Weren't new 13 year olds born in 2010 who owned Wii U's. It was for people who play Seeing an old friend return than the community's passion for Pikmin subreddit with the occasional Oh, I was such a big fan. I love those guys. Reality Check. We have Pikmin fans buying billboards That's not nostalgia. That's a multi-decade long passion. Love for the series runs deep to deep for It's more than nostalgia. We're going to have to When compared to other games. It's easy it must be a pleasant cozy experience You have successfully been deceived it's but look like Mario mushrooms. Oh, so pretty and juicy and red. Don't gobble it. It's gonna end you, mate. The game may be esthetically cute couldn't be more uncomfortable. Rock Pikmin and ice Pikmin aren't Pikmin Their parasites. Olimar and Louis aren't simple avatars and Luigi Olimar is a 40 year old man And Louis is Louis. The water wraith is you and you Pikmin down, crushing The game's day night the world becomes so dangerous hunted down by nocturnal predators. Jumbo bulborbs are infertile. I could go on just the fact of what makes a Pikmin game. A Pikmin game proves it's not all hugs Unless you're okay with hugging a corpse. And that theme of loss and sacrifice plays in Pikmin's gameplay philosophy, So let's go to the next floor Pikmin 1 The first game in the series, introduces You have a 30 day limit to recover and if you fail, I think he dies. This creates a constant sense of urgency and prioritize their actions you have left gets lower and lower. Pikmin two introduces caves and furthers with the addition of a second Captain with enemies and treasures. But whilst your down there, time Instead, it replaces that stress Because if you lose a pikmin in the cave, you can't produce more Pikmin And this new aspect of stress. Plus a further highlight in multitasking increases for complexity And in Pikmin 3, the third game continues It introduces three captains for even more And with the food supply mechanic, you have to manage your resources and plan your actions Unless you're really good at a game But that pressure is still there. And the newest release Pikmin 4 If you play Pikmin Dandori A Japanese term that roughly translates to efficiency, The game also introduces Pigment, a Pikmin companion character, Not only do these additions but also increases the depth with the amount of options you have. More so than any other game in the series. Pikmin 4 feels like a game of fights which is a common aspect of adult life. This is what having a job I've even heard from a few of my friends to their real world career You don't need any more evidence the importance of planning your actions as possible, Pikmin 4 is work. But it's just really fun. And you might think, now We can end the video there. Nope. But still a very important aspect, So let's head down to the final floor. Just like how DanDori and efficiency Parts in Pikmin 4. They're also something we should strive And one thing that takes a crucial part Manta sleep. Sleep is something you do I've struggled with poor sleep I've had little to no issues and a big My sleep masks are designed sleep, helping you get the rest such as falling asleep to YouTube videos The Manta sound letting you drift off, without the massive negative effects not to sleep must offer 100% darkness with adjustable eye cups material for long lasting you. So for me, my perfect shot of a mask and as a brother who rarely used sleep mask is by far my favorite outside with the aroma dots for give you a sleep It's crucial for mental clarity Poor sleep quality has callously linked but Manta can help you for maxing out your wellbeing Click the link below or use code. Getmadz at check out for a 10% discount Thanks again Pikmin 4 at surface level seems to be a total renovation akin to something And in many ways, it is a reset of the tutorialization even going as far as adding That I'm sure many people will buy you realize that Pikmin 4 holds to detail and tasteful nostalgia who've been there from the beginning, While some Pikmin fans may argue that I personally feel like this perspective Yes, the game has introduced friendly mechanics, But let's not mistake accessibility Pikmin 4 still demand strategic and efficient resource management, speedrunning or just trying to push This game's difficulty but about the depth of its gameplay, and how good it is at tackling its thesis which in this case is Dandori could also be attributed to us Over the years, we've grown up and honed our skills What's seemed challenging as a 13 year old And although there's no arguing that more accessible, less stressful for your captain in Oatchi I don't think any of that diminishes its overarching theme of Dandori the easiest game in the series Yeah, probably. But beneath that easy to make argument and very rewarding, which perfectly in this video. Pikmin on the surface, is so easy to make and give assumptions But when you grab that magnifying glass up close, in the detail, But this is just what I think. You know, maybe I'm wrong. I leave a comment if you disagree. You could, like, subscribe. Okay, bye!