- I'm Darren McGrady, the Royal Chef. Former chef to the Queen, Princess Diana, Prince William, and Prince Harry. And I'm gonna be making Gaelic steaks. I remember sleeping on the mall outside Buckingham Palace to of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer. I was working at the Savoy And I thought, how cool would And to work in those royal kitchens. When I got home, I applied for a job. Just a few weeks later, there I was in the kitchens having an interview. It was incredible. Buckingham Palace was The interview, I sat with the He asked me all about cooking. I got the job, just like that. Within two weeks, I was working in the kitchens at Buckingham Palace. I started at Buckingham Palace and was then moved to Balmoral Castle. It was at Balmoral Castle It was my afternoon off. And I remember going for a walk And I looked down the road, and I saw this lady walking towards me. And she got a load of dogs with her. And I looked and I looked a bit closer, and thought, &quot;No, that The lady was coming closer and closer. And she got a head scarf And I looked again, and I thought, &quot;Oh my gosh, it's the Queen. &quot;I'm gonna see the Queen.&quot; Remember what you've gotta say, it's &quot;Good morning, your majesty. &quot;Good afternoon, your majesty.&quot; Bow. You don't speak to her All of this was going through my mind. And I was thinking, &quot;I'm As she got closer, the dogs saw me. 12 corgis. And they all started barking, And I just stopped, and I thought, &quot;Oh my gosh, I'm gonna get I'm not gonna get to I turned and I went running the other way. And the Queen started laughing. Can you believe? The Queen was laughing at me So I never really did These are beef tenderloin steaks, and I'm just seasoning with I'm using beef tenderloin the Queen would actually have venison. Now we're gonna cook the and the onions and make the sauce. To serve with the Gaelic steaks, I'm doing potatoes and parsnips mashed together. And then the garnish is Queen Elizabeth loved to From the gardens. And at Balmoral Castle, and the potatoes and the carrots. So when all this came together, especially if you were from the estate, this And you can see why it was One of the things I soon learned working for the Queen was that all of the dishes were rich in cream and butter and fat. Calories really didn't matter. We could use as much cream and butter in the dishes as we wanted to. They just made them taste amazing. It really was traditional French cuisine. The Queen chose the menus Using a menu book, we would suggest three days menus for her to choose from. And then she would pick She put a line through the And if she got guests coming, The Queen wasn't a real foodie. And I soon learned that she eats to live. She doesn't live to eat. And so the menus that we did again and again all the time. And if we tried to come then we had to actually The whole recipe. So the Queen could look at the menu. Look and see what was And it was difficult trying to put new dishes on all the time. She liked her favorites. When she's on her own, then When she's entertaining, then I did an interview where I was asked, &quot;What was the Queen's favorite drinks?&quot; She likes a glass of champagne. She likes (speaking in foreign language), that's one of her favorite She likes a (speaking She likes port. Someone said, &quot;Oh right, so The Queen is such a disciplinarian, it amazed me that we would send a great big chocolate cake up At afternoon tea. And she would just take the tiniest slice and it would go back to the kitchen. If she wanted more, she And when that cake came up again. Me, I would have eaten it all. One of the things that really amazed me was that the Queen actually And chefs we cook So it was really, really important that we got a really good sear on the steaks. And cooked her steaks well-done. If ever she was doing a prime rib, she always Because that meant that meat This is the best part of the sauce, the (speaking in foreign language), all those little crispy And putting the butter and oil in there before we add the onions, really gives the flavor. And some mushrooms. (scraping) Turn up the flame and let those soak in. One fun thing about this is we'd also make if for Prince Phillip. But the Queen doesn't So we'd actually put a little For Prince Phillip. It was about a week later This time she looked like a real Queen. No head scarf, no corgis running after me. The Queen hosts a Ghillies Ball, a gamekeeper's ball And all the staff are invited. I was there in my suit, and And this time, the Queen was dressed in a beautiful long gown. She got a tiara on. That's the Queen that I knew. The best part of the (sizzling) You never got to sit down We were royal servants of the Queen. We never sat, even sat at the Here we go again. Lashings of cream in the sauce. Well, that's just gonna Once it's reduced and we've then the steaks go back in. The Queen was never one for She liked the same foods, the same dishes over and over again. Just every now again, she Somewhere she'd visited and. And say, &quot;I had this dish, and I've got the recipe, can you make this, please?&quot; And we'd have to try something different. But for the most part, it was those tried and tested recipes. Some of the dishes dated The chocolate cake, for example, that same chocolate cake was served to every member of the royal family for When it came to the Gaelic steaks, beef or venison for the Queen Seasonal vegetables, too, and if we were at Balmoral, we From the gardens. And some baby carrots to go with it. Ready to serve. If the Queen was on her But for a banquet, it would go portions and the potatoes and the vegetables would all be served separate. The Queen's not a big eater. Just small portions. So we couldn't fill the plate. And one of the steaks is more than enough. Gaelic steaks. And that is one of the (instrumental music)