You've heard of disposable cameras! You've heard of disposable diapers! How about, Disposable movies? For this video to make any sense, I'm gonna Amazon Prime video, Disney+ (trying to future and all those other streaming services don't exist. It's a desolate landscape, I know, but thankfully these trying times. And, well actually Netflix did exist at this How quaint. But ya know what's annoying about video You have to take the disc back to them. Or, mail it back. What a hassle! I mean, needing to go back to the store? And giving them the thing which I borrowed How inconvenient! I mean, it's not like I'm gonna just go Now I have to go out of my way to return my Eugh. But what if there were a way that I could Don't you mean buy the movie? No! I mean, what if I could somehow bring home I open it, and then it breaks itself! All the savings of renting with the convenience I'll take 600! This rather bizarre idea did actually happen. It wasn't a huge success, and I'm gonna in the early 2000's there was an idea to Some of you might be thinking of DIVX, an which was a more technical solution involving server to verify whether any specific disc You could then upgrade your disc at an additional or even upgrade it to a so-called DIVX Silver Ain't that some dystopian DRM right there? But we're not talking about that. Instead, we're talking about something else. After DIVX had proven itself a failure, a decided to try that concept again and began These were completely compliant DVDs that made with a chemical component that would of being exposed to oxygen. The idea was that you could buy these discs and since they were sealed in airtight packaging, they You could then watch the film an unlimited point the disc would blacken and become unreadable. And of course I have one of these discs right It almost certainly does not work but we will That's right, I haven't opened this yet. We're gonna do it together! I moved you a bit closer so we can do this hmmm. What's that doing here? Anyway, let's open the package. swanky music begins in background and cutting towards me. So this is just very basic [music cuts] .... [music resumes] in shrink wrap. [sensational shrink wrap struggles] Very user friendly. And inside we find a little package with some And our disc. Mmmmm. This might possibly work, but we will see. This is really, I will say, you would need .. agh .. or some sharp object like a utility knife. So it looks like a normal DVD except the back This may work, which would be surprising but I can't see the TV so we're just gonna [strange whirring noise from the DVD player] It's making really weird noises. I'm gonna guess it's not working. It's trying again. This is nerve wracking. I don't think it's working. I just noticed this "For best results, open was inside the shrinkwrap so there's no well I suppose on the shelf it wouldn't matter but if you took this home you better open at least this far to get a sense of when you need to watch this. We appear to be getting nowhere fast. This is attempt 2. It really sounds like it's trying its best. Wait. Did it get somewhere? [more disc drive noises] I have to... I have to actually look at the screen. I can't stand this. What's very interesting to me is that the player It's just continuously trying to play it. So it's almost like it can see something, Well, that was an expected disappointment. Since the disc is so old, oxygen has seeped the disc. In fact, the discs only had a shelf life of If we were in 2008 or whenever this disc was And it would have, you know, worked. Now, you might think that the red coloring But it isn't. Instead it's a weirdly forward-thinking players they're talking about. See the black color isn't actually black. Light of certain wavelenghts could pass through through the "black" coloring of a PlayStation And one of those wavelengths that could pass laser of a Blu-ray disc player. Coloring the disc itself red would block that to read DVD-data using a blue laser (which, is why Blu-Ray players have a red laser diode, their attempt would be foiled. Are you wondering why I keep calling this Well, to make filming easier I filmed the Yep, it was movie magic! Descriptions and images of these discs show disc, but this disc clearly hasn't. This is why I thought there was a chance the Either its packaging was somehow able to prevent the 11 years between its manufacture and today, hyperbole and in fact it just got darker. If the disc does turn completely black in some pictures in a pinned comment. Well, links to pictures but you know what So let's talk about what this disc was actually trying When you or I go to a store and buy a DVD the movie. Instead, we're buying a specific license for the rest of time. Or at least, for the life of the disc, video That's what the FBI is always warning you You didn't buy a license to show this in You didn't buy a license to share this on You bought one license to watch this one film But, you can watch it over and over again. And once you buy it, you'll never have to Unless of course you get tired of watching format or whatever. The cost of making the packaging and the disc DVDs cost pennies to make, but the movie is you're buying. If whoever the content owner is can only make again, they're gonna charge a lot for the viewing indefinitely. But, if there's a set time limit on your doesn't have to charge nearly as much. If they have the opportunity to sell it to if they only make a few bucks. So, what Flexplay, and DIVX before it, attempted a film, and thus movie studios would only rather than 10 or 20. And, since DVDs are hilariously cheap to make, for the cost of a rental (about five dollars) The advantage of Flexplay, of course, was place you bought it. The disc would simply become unusable and Now, while this may seem like a pretty stupid idea --after all video rental stores already so what's the real advantage aside it could have been pretty revolutionary. Flexplay wasn't just trying to make a consumer's They were trying to enable any business to Video stores like Blockbuster needed lots their inventories, they needed to track rentals business was rather unique. A grocery store probably isn't gonna want a few extra bucks. But, since Fle-- it's back! How did... But since Flexplay didn't require you to them like any other product. Any retail establishment, from grocery stores, to hardware stores could easily get into the Simply set up a Flexplay display, order some Except, of course, that didn't really happen, Flexplay discs were first tested in 2003 with was a resounding failure. First of all, let's be honest, this is a You'd think that the failure of DIVX would and even in 2003 Billboard was skeptical a lot of market confusion. They were pretty correct, as the test ran A large part of why it failed was due to pressure Disposable DVDs don't sound like a great While it is of course possible to recycle seem to be that interested in figuring that to the store where you bought it to recycle kinda defeats the purpose. The convenience aspect sold both to the business is pretty much lost if the consumer is expected and the business has to handle the recycling. So what's the point? Disney is likely who caused the end of the them to stop this Flexplay nonsense. And they did, for rather obvious PR reasons. But, Flexplay would return with a vengeance They had somehow managed to get Paramount, to agree to licensing deals, and they Hudson News, Travel Centers of America, and notably Apparently they were trying to go after the but was too busy to return it. Or something like that. To try and alleviate concerns from the environmentally "Technotrash" to provide recycling (which again defeats the purpose) and they also would to return the disc for recycling. Which again. Defeats the point. And now you've printed something. To ship it back. To be destroyed. Apparently Flexplay did offer free return Really, the whole thing did seem rather stupid. If you're gonna mail it back, you might be enjoyed by dozens of people. Rather than one. If you have to return to the store, you might Or, you can just throw it out and be OK with And then of course there's this little company. Ah, yes. That one. The product that lets retail establishments taking on any of the hassle. Which allows its customers to return their purposely placed in front of everyday businesses The product that costs a small fraction to only a small convenience penalty, or if you no convenience penalty at all. But I'm sure Flexplay will do just fine! Well it didn't. At a cost of $4.99 to $5.99, the product didn't Remember that Netflix discs were only $10 unlimited number of rentals. (well, unlimited As long as you rented just 2 things in a month, And of course, you could keep the disc for a find that it destroyed itself. Redbox rentals were still $1 per day, so if a movie for one fifth the cost of a Flexplay And thanks to their positioning in front of probably have a reason to go back and return Plus, Redbox does give the retail establishment for a machine. So regardless of how icky throw-away polycarbonate it also frankly just didn't make sense. At Flexplay was pretty much the worst possible If, perhaps, things went to their plans and airports decided to pop for a movie from Hudson But, I just don't think that was really If it was, you'd think Redbox would be in disc when you get home. But maybe they didn't want to deal with country or something, I don't know. Pretty much the one sole advantage that you the discs would be brand new every time. You'd never have to worry about a scratched hassle of returning it and getting a refund. But, this concept was already tried with DIVX Yes, DIVX was a weird product that wasn't Flexplay had that going for it. But the resounding failure of DIVX was somehow honestly they shoulda seen this coming. I'll grant it's clever, and I remembering But for a commodity like video rental, a neat inexpensive rental. And that's before we even get into the waste Sure, the production and disposal of an individual impact, but the Tragedy of the Commons means and possibly without realizing it. If Flexplay had become mainstream, then imagine renting one movie per month. That's over 800 million DVDs produced each intentionally wasted if made by Flexplay. In 2010 Redbox rented over 500 million discs. According to this website I found, the average So, those 500 million rentals were only made Redbox accounted for nearly half the rental numbers across the board, conventional DVD per year, vs. 1 billion Flexplay discs. Yikes. So I think it's safe to say it's a good Yes there are probably a few billion blank but they weren't meant to just be Producing a DVD with a deliberately limited And I think that while we seem to live in that seems rather crass. And I think Flexplay crossed it. Interestingly, a thought experiment has been impact of streaming services, with their vast 24/7 sucking up that sweet sweet electricity health than physical media. In many ways streaming services are the perfect because we can't see the backbones that But regardless, I think we can agree that worse than simply renting them out the old Before I close this video out, I'd like The patent that I believe is the principle Their patent was so broad that it covered basically any potential way to create a self-destructing disc. Here are just a few samplings: &quot;In one embodiment... Another aspect of the invention... Alternatively, a timed destruction of the They basically thought up as many ways to and wrapped them all up into an over-arching Pretty smart, actually. In fact, it can best be summed up in this Another aspect of the invention is a composition... They even described a disc that would be chemically the disc, which could in theory limit the a specific timeframe. They really did cover all their bases, here. Too bad it was a product nobody asked for. As always, thank you to everyone who supports folks you see scrolling up your screen. Contributions from individuals like you are If you'd like to make a pledge of your own behind the scenes footage, and the inside out my Patreon page. Thanks for your consideration, and I'll temporarily smooth jazz I will be amazed if this works. And I hope it doesn't because I already let's try. ...was to sell only temporary rights to a film, and the... no. ...is pretty much lost if the consumer is respected to... Respected? Expected! ...is pretty much lost if the consumer is res.... (disappointed silence) Is expected. ...is very hard because. Ahh!! No!! That's not the line. The.... dibbiybede And loads of bored business travelers stuck in... eugh. I've completely forgot how I wrote this We appear to be getting nowhere fast...