Hey what's up you guys this is Gabriel Oh my God it's Fluffy Hell yeah it is And I'm here hanging out Big show tonight. As you can see it's Uh, it's not really big... You know So anyways you guys This weekend is the encore presentation On Comedy Central Now... Comedy Central is only available in the So for the rest of you worldwide I want to give you guys a nice big sneak Of the... Of the special that is gonna be eventually available on DVD Or if you hack it or however you get it But I like to know that I'm... I'm giving this one to you guys to enjoy So check this out This is my story about And you'll see, there's a surprise at the end Cause I wasn't expecting this either So enjoy and please share it Have fun! It's 23 minutes long so get ready My agent calls me up And he's says Gabe check it out You're getting your request to perform I go really? Ok cool Army? Navy? Marines? Air Force? Who? Actually, the request is coming from a prince Run that by me again A prince I said... Purple Rain? Not Prince A prince I said how do they know me? I don't know but they say that they know you and they want to hire you I go it sounds like a joke Matt Trust me, it sounds legit All right... If it's legit, I'll tell you what Give whoever a ridiculous figure And let them know that they have to wire Otherwise forget it Four hours later... Gabe! What? Ridiculous just called... Are you serious? I'm looking at the screen bro They wired all of it Next thing I know Welcome aboard Saudi Arabian Airlines 17-hour flight you guys From Detroit Michigan to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia And just so you guys know, I didn't go by I took some friends with me Nobody from this show For obvious reasons Yeah man, the crew that I travel with Everybody's hairy, big nose Goatee, beard, crazy eyes This... Are you kidding me? With all of us were like Osama bin Lopez, you know what I'm sayin? You don't know what the hell we are So I took two other friends I took one friend, his name is Edwin San Juan Who's Filipino Works clean Hell yeah... And another buddy of mine named Who's Native American, who also works clean and... Alright Hell yeah, sure Hold on I want to look at the camera Hey Larry Omaha, Edwin San Juan, you guys have fans and they're here in Hawaii Get your asses over here Anyway, umm... So we head to Riyadh 17-hour flight from Detroit As soon as we get there... They flew us there first class by the And the plane is pulling up to the gate and, you know... It's doing the whole you know... And the tube is coming out to meet the As soon as the tube touches the plane All of a sudden... The door... On the Pops open And a man in a suit gets on And he walks over to the three of us And he does this... And I'm sitting there freaking out like Oh my god, this is like the movies! And they pulled us off the plane And they escorted us to this area called VIP baggage claim And it sounds kind of And I get there I realize oh They're serving cookies and candy and And there's leather sofas And it's really nice And there's nothing but And they're all talking about me I don't understand Arabic But everyone in this room understands when someone's talking about you The guy's looking at me and he's like... I'm sorry but this... Is universal And apparently this is Arabic for Damn! So then this other guy walks over to me And he's holding a sign And the sign has my name on it And he's really excited He's like, it is you! Come come. Come! It is you, come come, come, we go And I went oh, ok cool. So we grab And we followed him outside to the curb They have three Lincoln Navigator SUVs There's three comedians, and there's We're so paranoid that we're in the Middle East We all get in one car We're sitting in there And we take off We're heading towards downtown Riyadh ok? Now all I know... Up to this point about my experience is that I've already been paid My flight's been taken care of And I have a point person Who I'm supposed to meet at the airport Who's not there So I'm talking to the drivers Excuse me sir, where's this guy? It is ok, I take you to him... Is ok... Is ok is ok Uh... ok... And for me it's not okay, because I researched Saudi Arabia And you know... You think the rules in Singapore are strict The rules of Saudi Arabia are very, very different, ok? And I don't want to offend anyone And I want to make sure that I don't say the wrong thing So I need to know, you know? Some... Some... I need some info! So I keep talking to the drivers Um sir, would you mind helping Whatever you need, you ask. I tell you. Um... I apologize in advance If i come across rude, or disrespectful Or ignorant but um... How do you guys know about me here, in the middle east? What do you mean how do we know? Yeah, how do you know that I'm a comedian? You have comedy central, or HBO... or Showtime? What is that? That's a no, that's what How do you know that I'm an entertainer? Oh! Your videos! YouTube! My friend, Youtube You're huge You're the number two most famous Number two You're kidding... I am NOT comedian, I don't No... I'm the number two most famous comedian in all of the Middle East? Yes! Who's number one? Jeff Dunham Jeff Dunham is the number one comedian You guys don't find him at all offensive? Oh No... I kill you! When I heard that you guys I was like you know what? They get it... They get it So I'm like we're cool We're sitting, we're driving We're heading towards downtown All of a sudden the driver... Cuts the wheel really hard And we get off the freeway And now we're taking a side road, And I'm like, ahem... Excuse me? Where are we going? We are going to the show I go um... It says here that we're staying in the city Yes you're staying in the city But the show is somewhere else That doesn't make sense... Why would you have the show somewhere else? How come you don't have it And then he broke it down... My friend... Here in Riyadh, it is very different ok? Your type of entertainment is forbidden... In the city There are people called Hold up the traditions They keep it so that it is very It is not allowed, the social gathering We must go somewhere secret... In the desert Alright um... So how many people are you guys It's a little between seven to eight hundred people That many? I told you... Number 2! And sure enough you guys, we pull up to this racetrack In the middle of the desert And there's a... There's a giant tent set up next to it And there's... There's 800 There for a comedy show And as soon as we pull up... As soon as we pull up Radio's start popping out And I keep hearing on all the radios Fluffy... Fluffy... Fluffy... All of a sudden, some guy runs up on the stage And they And he starts yelling to the crowd I don't know what But I've seen enough hip hop to recognize a hype man Oh yeah, he's out there... And then I get the biggest introduction of my life And nowwwww! Direct from the United States of America! Here he is! Gabriel Iglesias! And the crowd starts going Fluffy... Fluffy... Fluffy And when I heard that... I freaked out I was like, oh my God, this is gonna be an amazing show So I ran to the stage as fast as I could... I'm not a runner... But I booked it to the stage Because I was so excited And when I got to the front It clicked... That in Saudi Arabia... They still have segregation And I didn't find out till the last second... Because I saw a And on one side Men... Other side Women And all the women in the front row Were covered, from head to toe All I saw... Was this Oh yeah I had no idea I didn't know that... I didn't know... It threw me off so bad Gabriel Iglesias! Fluffy... Hey what's going on everybody, how you... I froze! I've been doing this for 15 I don't freeze, but that threw me off so bad I didn't know what to say... All of a sudden, men start yelling my My friend, do the donkey Do the donkey! Hey chocolate cake! Chocolate cake! A guy in Make fun of me! Hell no... And the people started laughing The women were laughing just as hard as Granted, some of them I couldn't see But for the most part it's like... And I'm not trying to be disrespectful, you know? They're laughing... I even had fun with one of the girls I said Oh, I saw your neck She said, you're going to get me in trouble The Saudis had such an amazing sense of They were laughing and carrying on And I had no idea that they were going to be like that And then after the show I got a chance to meet some of the And one guy was almost in tears He was so emotional... He walks up to me And he's just like I cannot believe... That I am standing here in front of you Mister Fluffy Thank you Please... Please, when you return to Or whatever you travel Let the people know what you saw, ok? Let them know that we're not all bad That we are not all those bad people from Fox News, ok? You let them know because we see Fox And Fox News believe that everybody in Middle East is bad Everybody's terrorists Everybody has a He has a bomb, he has a bomb, he has a bomb Oprah is here giving away bombs to everybody Everybody... Please... You let them know We're not all We are not all terrorists My cousin... Maybe WHAT?! I kidding! I kidding! I kidding! Look at your face! Look at your face! Oh, I'm going to die Look at you... A plane! What plane? I got you again! Two for two, I got you! And he is raising my blood pressure every seven seconds And then he starts breaking it down for me How stand-up Is starting to bring people together... In the Middle East And how he's He's doing comedy It was crazy, the conversation, you know? Here in a... In Saudi Arabia Um... People they... They like watching the stand up comedy Because... We love to laugh, ok? We love to laugh It's great to laugh And people don't think that people in Middle East have sense of humor They see videos, They see TV They think we are the They say, oh Middle Eastern people are all angry Look at that their face, their angry Everybody angry Everybody mad Everybody angry My friend, we're not angry It's hot... Ok? It's a hundred and seventeen degrees... Everybody's not mad, their hot! Look it Everybody has a hot face Hot face Everybody hot face I promise, you give me air I am so happy We are ok We love to laugh I've been doing the And um... I have jokes Good for you May I try? Ohhh great... Alright man, go ahead... Ok, very nervous, Ok, here I go Ok, here I go... Two Jews... Walk into a bar... Not in my country! Man, you're gonna get my ass arrested bro We wound up doing shows all over the We were in Riyadh, Bahrain, Dubai, Qatar, Doha... And each show, you guys, Not because there were so many people But because the people were friendly They were fun They got all the I couldn't get over that I honestly thought that they were gonna And I felt terrible I felt terrible because I was judging I was prejudging them And I thought they were going to be a certain way And I felt bad because all those years People were doing that to me Not really giving me a chance And I was I felt so bad And then when I met the prince... I was still judging 19 years old And he's a prince I thought he was gonna be a brat He walks up to me And I was already like, I failed to realize... That he's a prince And he was brought up to be a The way he carried himself... He intimidated me in about 18 seconds Ok, I'm 36 And I meet em, Wassup?! And he's like... Jibril Scuse me? Jibril Jibril? Gabriel I understand that your name is Gabriel But in the arabic language, your name is I was welcoming you, in our language Oooohhhhhh..... I'm a dick And I started already imagining what was I am so sorry I'm so sorry And he was so nice He was like, I want to thank you For coming here to Riyadh And doing all of It was so beautiful to see everyone From the little children in attendance All the way to the elderly people with Everyone had an amazing time... Everyone It was beautiful, ok? Beautiful Religious Religious police... Laughing They don't laugh at shit I want you to understand how big this is There was an American here Entertaining people from Middle East There was no violence, no bloodshed No problems Everybody was smiling Everybody was getting along It is possible An American was here... An American was here He kept saying American... American, Freakin' ten years being called a Latino comic I had to go all the way around the I was excited! I was like, say it again American! And then I had the most surreal conversation I have ever had with a person... He looks at me and he says I want to thank you for everything... I want to invite you and your friends to come to my palace So that I may entertain you I'm like, Are you I am not getting invited to a palace by a prince Oh my god Up until this point, my only Was a Burger King drive thru All of a sudden, one of those SUVs pulls up And a guy jumps out in a suit And I guess his favorite Cause that's all he said... Please... Please... Please... Please... Please... Please... Please... I'm like, are you kidding me? There's a man in a suit trying to get me in the back of a Lincoln Navigator And there's a prince I'm not gonna lie... I felt like a hot chick I was like, oh my God, let's go Hurry up bitch, let's go! We get to the front of his palace, you I'm not gonna lie It didn't look... like a palace The walls are really high... There's barbed And there's two guys in the front with I'm looking at this and I'm like This doesn't look like a palace And I started thinking... What if I'm on some messed up episode of Middle Eastern Punk'd You know what I mean? You thought you go to palace, you to go prison, you're Punk'd! Fortunately, the doors opened up And we drive in And then they closed And when we got outside, you guys What we saw was amazing Outside... Desert Inside... Palm trees, bushes, shrubs, a pond And he had exotic pets I know exotic pets Because I know what I have Over there... He's got a tiger! Freakin zebra... Monkeys And he had a freakin boa constrictor I'm like, are you kidding me? Snakes, monkeys, a zebra and a tiger... Oh my god, that makes me Kung Fu Panda And I started thinking What if he It sounds messed up But let me explain As an American, you cannot just purchase an airline ticket To go to Saudi Arabia You have to be invited by a person of When I left Detroit to go over there I had to fill out a form that says I understand that i'm going to Saudi Arabia And should something happen to me... One of those things on the list being Kidnapping Conveniently right above Death America is not responsible The Prince could have actually... &quot;You're mine&quot; Two weeks later... Now he's showing someone else That is my snake, that is my zebra That is my Mexican... That is my tiger... Keep me inside of some little box that says Jibril But it never happened... And we're walking around And I actually pulled him aside for a second I said listen uh... I gotta tell Well you tell me I... I need to apologize What did you do? I didn't do anything... I just want to apologize... For coming here With the wrong mentality I says unfortunately I thought that uh... You know, because it is the Middle East I thought you guys were going to be And everybody's been nothing but nice Ahhh? I know I didn't think you guys And understand, you know, so many references Ahhh? I know! I thought you guys were going to throw But you were funny... What? Never mind... 2 out of 3 So we're walking And he's showing me this and that And I'm just kind of like looking around, I And then I saw something that freaked me out We're walking in the direction Of a giant cage And when I saw the cage, I stopped I was like uh... Uh... What's with the cage? Take a look Great... So I walk over towards And I look inside And I notice that there's birds in there And I was like ah, ok, He got all offended That's not regular birds... Those are falcons I go ok, you have a lot of falcons We use the falcons for hunting You hunt falcons? No no no no no... Each falcon is 100,000 US dollars They are trained We go out and we shoot a And we send a falcon to retrieve Would you like to see? No no no no no no... I got little dogs, I don't wanna... Bye Bruno Before I know it, here comes the other Please... Please... Please... And he goes inside the cage And he puts on this leather And he starts getting one of the Falcons I'm watching him do this and I noticed All the Falcons are on these purches about this high And there's about 15 in a row And they all have hoods... Covering their And I asked him Why do they have hoods on their eyes, man? They look like little hostages Shit! I'm sorry bro I'm sorry I meant no disrespect by Seriously No disrespect... It was a slip And he was I understand Middle East... Hostage... So the other guy comes out And he's got And he's got a glove And he hands me the glove And I put it on... And he transfers his Falcon to my arm And uh... All of a sudden, he starts doing And he's basically showing me that the Falcon's trained And I I thought we we're going to kill something I'm like nooo, but we were just playing with the falcon And I started getting excited, you know? And the more excited I got, the Cause then he got excited I'm like, this is great It is great Yeah this is so cool So cool I'm like God, you're so lucky to have so many falcons I am so lucky Would you like a falcon? So matter-of-fact, like... Would you like a cookie? Would you like a falcon? Same way! I'm like, are you kidding me? Don''t give me a Shoot, you think I'm lazy now... Hell no Don't give me, oh no uh uh I wouldn't even leave the house I'd be at the front door... Donuts And who the hell is gonna watch my I can't leave it with my buddy Martin in You know he would abuse it Take it to Try to hook up with it... The red head