There are some places but few truly know. One such place is Transylvania. A male-dominated culture that For us, a horse is like a child. Horses are like members Transylvania is a region with a Itis a place where people at peace with the idea of it Our cemetery is the only one rather than cry. Away from the cities, some right in the heart of Europe. Low-hanging clouds of mist. Sinister legends. Vampire stories. Transylvania is perhaps best Bran Castle is marketed But the region has much Its magnificent buildings are Hungarians, Germans, and In the far north, on the border The region, historically is known for its skillful wooden churches recognized by In the small Orthodox residents believe They say that the from the crib to the coffin is bound up with wood. And people here have This is especially of this village of When a person dies, they get a lovingly-carved, A picture and a poem, tell the story of Honestly and bluntly, For 45 years, Dumitru Pop a place the locals call This makes him something The plan is for son-in-law Ioan To do the job, one needs to know The whole village knows the Because everyone knew how Especially her son-in-law she really bossed him around. He had to dance to her tune After her death, the family that was a true And this is it: Beneath this cross If sheid lived just one day You who admire this otherwise sheill come back The reactions were positive, no That was how she was. Itis Dumitru alone who decides the deceased and above all, what information is This is for a young man And I wrote the following: Oh I rest here at a young age, I proudly bought But the Mercedes I died in my car before My life came to an end so early. If only Iid at But now Iim lying Final words of remembrance sincere, but with a But Dumitru has no intention He carves, paints, and writes The idea is to change The merry cemetery is the only laugh about death, Taking the sorrow out of death. A mission that Over the years, the 67-year-old has made a Geographically, Transylvania forms the center The region is surrounded by of the Carpathians. Cluj-Napoca is seen as the With some 325,000 residents, Cluj is Romaniais second largest and scientific center Formerly known as Klausenburg, it was founded by German The grand buildings to its great regional Today itis mostly young people Cluj is a university city, representing a young An exception in a region rural and traditional. In the small towns and villages, thereis an incredible Here, people still have time or at least, they take it. On the roads, there are almost as Horses are closely linked To this day in Transylvania, theyire not just an theyire also a status symbol. Constantin Vamos is the His farm isnit far from Cluj. Come to Papa, Hadice, come to Constantin, or iCostelli has a close, almost Horses are the most Iive loved horses When I was eight, I I couldnit afford anything more. Nowadays, not only does Costell have heis also turned it Heis been breeding and Hey, look here, sweet little guy, Good boy, good boy. Heis still young. If you donit train him now, He has to learn But as much as he at some point itis One of the regionis most important Stela the mare is The negotiations are Iive asked for 4,500 euros. I donit know if Iill get that. I have to convince Iill try and negotiate the The potential buyer wants before meeting the horse Costell breeds a traditional Originally used as today theyire primarily At the upcoming horse market Transylvania means Like a thick, old carpet, forests cover large areas of of the Carpathian mountains. The few people who settle It sounds romantic, Itis six in the morning, the start of the working day Even though todayis work Itis going to be a tough day, Iill feel the work in But thatis OK. Toader canit live Every two months, he sets off We need the charcoal to survive, We need both: the sheep and the charcoal. Then we manage to get by. Toaderis family farm is Besides sheep, he owns goats, meaning he has With the source material at He gradually piles up The center, whatis known as Itis where Toader To do this, he needs bone-dry and this secret ingredient The rubber boot One by one, Toader the logs in a circle It looks simple, but it The spacing is crucial. Too close, and not enough Too far apart, and Iill only see if I did a Until then, all I Toader grew up in the While other children Toader learned to bring to make cheese out of milk, I couldnit work in an office. I need the freedom and the And not everyone can The stack is almost finished, a pile of wood weighing Toader covers it, first with straw, This protects the wood Finally, he lights the fire I need to hurry so that the fire catches Otherwise, itill just The flames go out quickly. But the embers continue where thereis just The skill lies in controlling to prevent the stack Toader wonit know will be until he reopens Transylvania has been the Romaniais best-known different European peoples. The culture of Germans is entrenched There are more than 150 an impressive legacy of They were built to defend against In towns like residents could take Houses of worship were turned into observations towers, Most of the ethnic Germans Today around 16,000 Transylvanian In the village of Cincu, two of Marlene and Alex the culture and language In particular, the artisan traditions Together, theyire renovating to Marleneis grandparents with old materials and Theyire currently working The challenge is: when you work itis quite normal that nothing because everything While carpenter Alex takes Marlene goes on a daily Her latest find: antique doors and Sheis also discovered We found the exact technical drawing Things like this are this region of thereis an old artisan In their renovation project, the Herberths utilize and know-how as a way of building These finds very Yes, itis a great piece of work in Itis a real treasure thatis But thereis still quite a bit can fit the doors into Itis going in... two millimeters yeah, thatis staying put. The problem: The strutis too long and the But Alex is not giving up. Theyire not defeats, In his workshop, Alex finds a The 38-year-old from the region The old tools are better the quality of steel is better. Theyire much more robust you can buy And if theyire old itis safe to say they were with a particular So heid never give because the two of them would The unconventional project of village gossip. For sure, people shake their Weire the ones who that would normally be thrown for scrap iron or firewood. No oneis collecting Of course, weire the freaks but thatis just fine. Alex was born in Bra?ov, They were raised bilingually. But living in Germany was Their roots to their and Marlene feels When my grandmother died, I came for a vacation, at a very A time when I was wondering who I wasnit so conscious but it turned out to And so, Marlene stayed. But realizing her dream became The couple kept coming up Thatis not The nails from They wonit be able to continue for the pavilion. While Marlene and Alex further to the north, people another artisanal In the little Dumitru Pop makes his Heis been doing it for 45 years. He feels those Itis important to him that His son-in-law is to a huge honor for the young man. Itis a big Iim not setting out to be but Iid like to at Iid like to achieve that. Like many young Romanians, Ioan worked on construction as a migrant laborer. His home village couldnit neither personally Until he met Dumitruis out in the workshop. To work with the crosses so thatis why I decided I felt at home here again. It was very difficult Heis been Dumitruis and will ideally take But thereis one problem: His skills arenit quite up to Iid like you to finish chiseling where the lettering I hope it works out. Iim nearly done here. And once youive done that, Iill do my best. This cross is to be a final The Gilau horse of trade show Itis already packed, And traders are still trying which is much too small. Costell, the horse breeder But heis determined I donit know of any event Itis about honor and money. A lot of money. Costellis hoping to sell The potential buyer is also Pufi Moldovan makes sure I canit put into words how Itis in my blood. My father, my grandfather, my and thatis how A horse is like a child. Horses are like members Pufi belongs to the like almost all those The first Romani people in the mid-14th century Horse trading is one of and most respected professions. With a lot of fanfare, the men try to get potential Negotiations are conducted Enough, you crook! Letis shake! 3,000! Youire joking, you scoundrel! 4,000! Eventually, a double and the tone becomes friendlier. Horse trading is a thatis generally Aside from money, this The market is the get-together They eat, drink, and In Sap,n?a, itis a The village in northern A member of the close-knit The widow Nuta has commissioned Everyoneis still in shock, An infection resulted No one saw it coming. If heid only complained if weid been at but it was already too late: His entire body was infected. Itis so sad. In Sap,n?a, people have They mourn but try not to Letis remember the good things. There are so many photos. Our granddaughteris The widow Nuta has asked as all the villagers do Locals believe the cross The cross will be a sign of Iim not worried because I He knows the story of every Heis from here, he was He knows everything. Dumitru Pop knows Stan He was at their wedding While Dumitruis son-in-law Dumitru will write a poem Itis always sad when a Weill all miss him. On this occasion too, Dumitru Whatever I write on the cross is They only see the and then again once I never show the poem Donit write that on it. Nuta fully entrusts Dumitru with The merry cemetery of Sap,n?a. Itis one-of-a-kind like an open book, where visitors can read about The Orthodox Christian community and thereis a lesson Dumitru Pop knows how tough to see the bright side. Apart from when thereis nothing as in the case Burn in hell, taxi As big as the country is, you had to stop in front of and make my parents so sad. This tragic accident Events like this are so painful how else can I describe it? Each time I read it, the How awful. But no matter Dumitru must always find Including now, for the death The embers in the charcoal have been burning for five days. He layered tons of wood to build Toaderis milking his because his Itis time to open the clamp. You can never be certain Sometimes the core doesnit burn But Iive got a good feeling The money from the sale of the of income for The animals alone arenit Toader canit really tell He needs to open it. Iim starting here. It needs more time. Itis not I need to close the so no dirt gets in. Otherwise, Iill smother Toader gingerly closes Here on the left, the wood isnit yet But the embers arenit On the right side, Toaderis hoping for Now I need to see if but it looks good. The charcoalis slowly From there, itis all charred. Thatis very good, No matter how I strike Good quality. Toaderis family is one of Isolated from the they rely on each Toader supplies them with around eight euros. And thereis always fuel Supper today is mutton Between the sheep Toader is confident heill Here, tucked away in the In Cincu, itis also Like her approach Marlene Herberth tries to use Today, sheis a typical dish that her to boost their immune systems, Transylvanian Saxons when it comes to their cuisine. That means using and Marlene is cooking ahead of time because she has an Work on the old pavilion Alex couldnit find the but a blacksmith friend Heis going to make The head can be slightly bigger. Thatis a fifty. And theoretically, the Thomas Fink strikes the iron, heated into the nailis Thereis a small German-speaking Itis a mix of Transylvanian who have left Germany Many of them work as Here it is. Wow, super cool. The new nails and the The historic pavilion project Amazing I can picture it properly now. Itis going to be great. Weive got a reason You bet. Well then, letis tuck in. The couple thanks their friends Their dream of a house in the home of their In Sap,n?a, a new day dawns. While Dumitru Pop is finding to his late friend, his the final touches to the cross. Ioan is under a great After all, Dumitru canit is able to fashion an Itis not perfect. There are a few small But the most important is perfectly straight so And youive certainly The next step is for Ioan The bright hues of the grave the poems and portraits. Ioan is getting But no one becomes a village Iim still a beginner there are many tricks and But Iim in the best position possible Iim confident Iill be Dumitru has written around This one was But now he thinks heis That looks good. Here Iim laid to rest, Iill tell you the truth: My life was not easy, I had such a full day, thatis The only nice thing I learned: To make schnapps from Lovely his widow will be pleased. Surely. These days, I sometimes I donit know how many more Iive got someone to take over. And when the time comes, I hope The truth about a Thatis no simple feat. For Dumitru and Ioan, life isnit Which is why there will at the merry At Gilau market, the They also compete The animals must and some score Nowadays, the Organizer Pufi finally has time If I like something, And Costell has I wish you a long life, Iim very well, this is Sheis a beauty, Just two. Two years? Exactly. Whatis your price? Iid like 4,500, but I donit Thatis daylight robbery, Whatis your offer? 3,500. 3,500 for this mare? Look at her legs, See for yourself, Whatis your final price? Your offeris too low. The customary the men tease and seeing how far A single handshake After some haggling a double handshake Iim very pleased. We agreed on 3,750 euros, The mare is a perfect fit Selling the mare But I know where sheis going. With him, she wonit have to work Itis like a father I wouldnit entrust my Thatis the way it is Itis early evening, and Costell is returning to Theyire his pride and joy, and one important part of And many here are doing all