Welcome to another Mathologer video. I am sure the divine proportion, 1.618..., a one-fits-all People have been going nuts over this number and a lot of crazies. Around 1990, mathematician infinite family of close relatives of the golden the plastic ratio, the supergolden ratio or which are all relatives of the golden ratio Steinbach's discoveries outshine all of these. note of Steinbach's golden relatives and when I was only the second mathematician looking at be talking about today are actually my own little about them. And, as advertised, it all starts with think of some numbers that satisfy this equation. 0 times 0 equals 0 plus 0. Boring :) Anything 2 times 2 equals 2 plus 2. I've always been on the But no, that's not it :) Alright, let me show you. 7 equal angles. If you ever come to visit me in Pretty isn't it? Alright. Let's put there are three different types of edges in this we choose the length of the red side to be be r and s then .... :) r times s = r+s You did since I opened with that equation, you did see it r and s pan out to be these two numbers here whose product is the same as their sum. In fact, However, r and s are super special. Have look. anyway :) Now let's push the squaring button. two tails are exactly the same and the two numbers r squared at the bottom is equal to the s on top, the case. r and s really are connected in this else? Well, there is also this one s squared but so what? What does all this have to do with regular pentagon of side length 1. It only has one quite a few of you will know that this length it is IN the study of the regular pentagon and first stumbled across the golden ratio. Now it similar to the ones over there. phi squared equals I am about to push the squaring button again so and only the integer part has gone up by one. phi curiosity on your non-mathematical friends. looking identity phi squared = phi plus 1 is the that the golden ratio is famous for. Let me remind relationship with the Fibonacci numbers and the numbers pop up in gazillions of places in nature. the golden section and the golden rectangle. And like for example the golden spiral. Then there is recently, we've been stunned by its manifestations And that's really just the tip of the iceberg of I should mention that Steinbach calls our special rho and sigma but at least in this video I'll source of confusion, at least for my non-Greek course on the basic mathematical properties of the Absolutely amazing stuff. Okay so to start, how a way as I claimed? Well, there is a great way to you to a very ancient and very pretty geometrical Take any four points on a circle and connect opposite sides, capital A and lowercase a, and the b. Furthermore, let's call the diagonals capital equals C times c. Whoa, super pretty, right? :) Any bells going off? Yes, of course, Pythagoras rectangle... then opposite sides, as well as the theorem turns into Phythagoras theorem :) a wait where is the right-angled triangle? Well, that Pythagoras theorem is a special case of let's put Ptolemy to work :) In a regular heptagon single out four of the vertices, those ones there draw in the diagonals of this quadrilateral. long, whereas the green and blue lengths are r and plus s times 1 equals s times r the sum of r and s Okay, but we are not finished yet. Again, can there are other types of quadrilaterals hiding in is not done yet :) Going for the diagonals first, s times 1 plus 1 times 1 r squared equals s+1 our What about the regular pentagon? Well, very is a third type of quadrilateral hiding in our corresponds to our third basic r and s identity :) clear that we can play this game using any regular be used to establish Steinbach's infinite family associated golden miracles. In this video I'll most interesting and accessible in this infinite an interval cut in the golden ratio? Everybody has start with the golden identity phi squared equals is equal to phi + 1 divided by phi. Well there the short red segment, the long golden segment and that the ratio of golden to red is equal to the something very special. Here are a couple of very ratio in action. First, here is a copy of the golden segment. Now our golden identity says at the top and at the bottom. phi divided by 1 the bottom. This then translates into the fact bottom until the ends line up with those at the Have a look Magic! Next golden ratio wonder. You regular pentagon. Of course the two segments less boringly so are these two segments as are Next, a superfamous 2-dimensional incarnation of like this. Then the right side of our identity long side phi + 1 divided by short side when we cut off a square from the right like this same aspect ratio. Let's check. Long side divided side is 1. Inspired by this, we call a rectangle this leaves us with a rectangle of the same there? Cut off another square. Another golden like a never-ending mathematical fairy tale! this gives that iconic infinite golden spiral of a logarithmic spiral that passes through these s and r counterpart of all this. Again, the ratio lining up perfectly when we uniformly compress corresponding r and s stunt :) Wow ! These three Here are the first three. At the top, long divided by short in the middle. 1+s divided by r which this chain of identities really stands for three to the middle ratio, middle ratio is equal to left ratio is equal to right ratio. Alright the top s divided by r is equal to all of this at the top s divided by 1 is equal to all that. associated with the regular heptagon. That's and why are they true? Let's have a close look. we can all agree that this is true :) Now, in the denominator by r. That does not change the value moment? But wait, let's not blurt it out just yet What's next ? Of course ! this product is equal to same. Similarly, on the other side s squared is identities. Tada. How pretty is that. And the same Next Remember this diagram is full of pairs of about the corresponding heptagon diagram? Can we red and blue to green in there? Well, obviously There again And again. Little puzzle for you: How this diagram? It's like playing 'Where's Waldo?' zillions of those blue to red ratios. That's all occurred among nicely aligned adjacent segments, in maths :) We get this in the heptagon, too. Have length and so we get this. and then we get this aligned like this. Here, for example, blue to searching you can also find this sort of aligned Okay, next topic. What's the r and s counterpart ratio discussion it's clear that turning our that gives two golden rectangles. Furthermore, the this. Okay, let's bring in the red-green-blue segments each which we'll use as the sides of green and blue The medium box has these three Cool, now because of our three chains we also know that the aspect ratios of all our three boxes are similar, so scaled images are similar rectangles. It's also clear what the small box has length 1 and the short sides of the scaling the small box by a factor of r will turn of s will turn it into the large box. And while to scale the small rectangle by a factor of as we've seen, the small rectangle fits nicely is also possible for our boxes. There, the small appreciate just how nice a fit we are dealing with r and s. Cool :) There is also a supernice way one here. Another divine fit :) Now, to turn the just cut off this square. Again something similar there is another square. This means that we can box by cutting off two square prisms. Let me show of course :) Let's do the same in the case of our bam bam and we are left with a smaller golden box. and so on And just focussing on those square iconic square spiral. Bit of a difference though the right. In particular, the smaller and smaller to a point in the interior of the rectangle we smaller golden box leftovers on the left converge with. Here it's worth pointing out that every time do this in two different ways. Like this or like as we cut off our infinitely many squares, to can be located in many different positions So in this case things converge to one of the happen on the left if we cut off the same square Anyway, I just wanted to make the point that this cutting off game and not just the spiral one the golden ratio. But, if we make our choices of very interesting spirals. And these spirals really with quarter circles. There and there. Neat, hmm, yet. Remember everything we've talked about so far large golden box. But, of course, there was also the medium box. Again, we can remove two square box. Here and here. Let's also quickly make a 3d of course, it's also possible to play the cutting ways of cutting. The first type of cutting takes the two boxes differ by a scaling factor of s. In factor is r. I'll call the first type of cutting If you are a Mathologer regular you may remember of the square spirals and some closely related proofs for example. We'll get to some other really in the next section. Again. Golden rectangle, at another golden rectangle. cut again, another this also works going the opposite way. Instead one of the long sides of a golden rectangle to there Here is an interesting idea. Instead of a square. and modify this square by adding other before... on top. What are the dimensions of the the long side 2 of the old rectangle becomes the side is just the sum of the two old sides. There. No? What were the numbers we encountered so far? initial square. Then 1+1 is 2 And 1 and 2 were the and 3 were the dimensions of the new rectangle. here is the famous Fibonacci sequence 1,1,2,3,5,8 elements of the sequence always add to the next our first connection between the golden ratio Have a look at the 8 times 5 rectangle in front golden? Let's check how golden it is. Put a little Inflate it inside the green rectangle as much difference between the golden rectangle and our sliver at the top, that's the difference. This is very close to phi, the aspect ratio of the to phi, 1.618, and so on. In fact, it turns out become indistinguishable from golden rectangles. rectangles, that is, the ratios of consecutive fact, our second connection between Fibonacci mathematician Simon Jacob around 1564, then Johannes Kepler in 1608. On closer inspection, the in some sense, best fraction approximations of the reasons for the occurrence of the Fibonacci in nature. I've already talked about all this in let's grow some more rectangles :) But this keeping track of the dimensions again. Just watch. switch to autopilot again to grow our rectangles. Fibonacci numbers :) And again, that rectangle turns out that, as before, those rectangles turn converge to phi again. In other words, if you with ANY two positive numbers a and b, the ratio phi. Isn't that amazing? :) But there is more :) numbers is that the number 5 is actually the 5th the 5th rectangle and we get the 5th Fibonacci Now, let's choose a and b to be phi and 1. So again. Okay, so we know that we get the dimensions for a and 1 for b, on the right. Let's do that this 5th golden rectangle by scaling up the first right? Okay, so here is the 1st golden rectangle times four times Magic! Okay, in this way we've that connect phi and the Fibonacci numbers in yet identities for all powers of phi. First, here are 5 is the 5th Fibonacci number. This means we to the power of 5 equals The 5th Fibonacci number It's clear how all this generalises and so we Oh and wait, what have we got there? :) There, In fact, everything we see in front of us also maximise the mathematical fun, let me also quickly let's start with the golden identity. Make a copy. rinse and repeat. Copy multiply through by phi this for a second time? Isn't that just a waste we are able to go further than with the geometry the history of the golden ratio, known as Binet's number. Turns out we are already more than halfway this particular Fibonacci summit. Here we go: our the equation x squared equals x plus 1. Obvious equation. Which, apart from phi, has a second minus 1 over phi. Homework: one of you show that that means -1/phi squared is equal to -1/phi +1. argument to generate a list of identities for EXACTLY. Right? Unleash the rinse and repeat on phi cubed counterpart. Keep going and you arrive bottom. Let this sink in for a moment. We get extra price. Pretty magical isn't it? Alright. guess what comes next? Remember we are gunning How do we get there? Easy, right? Just subtract get this difference of powers. On the right the we get this Great! :) Now just solve for F(n). in terms of the totally irrational number phi :) irrationality somehow manages to cancel out and hmm? Here is a question for you. What does this number that's not an integer? Like the pi? Or phi? in the comments. Also, just for fun, let me show using Binet's formula. Mathematical seatbelts on? before I transport you to the heptagon parallel time: Everything I've talked about so far is Also, just in case you've already forgotten half the Fibonacci numbers that I've just been going see and remember that there is a connection. Just by phi. Can you see it? There. There it's staring up to the next power of phi. How very Fibonacci maneuvre that takes us from one golden box to maneuvre here Of course, as for golden rectangles, In the case of golden rectangles, we switched from a square of side length 1. Similarly we now switch a cube of side length 1. Exciting isn't it? get :) Okay, let's grow this cube and keep track Bam! Bam. The dimensions of this new box are 3, and so on On closer inspection it turns out that example, take the dimensions of the last box 31 Okay then of course we get 1 on the right. and so very close to our magical numbers s and r. sequences converging to golden rectangles, initial box will give a sequence of boxes that Amazing, right? Anyway, let's have a look at the largest number in the second row is the second number is the sum of the first two first number above. And this is how you always equals 6. 3+2 equals 5 and finish off with 3 One again. Let's compare this to the list of rectangle 1+1 is 2 replicate the 1 2 plus 1 is 3 replicate how neat is that! What did we look at after And remember me harping on that these identities top? Well turns out our list of triples has an s on the left instead of powers of phi. And familiar. This was one of our three basic r and and s identities. In fact, our whole list can identities. Just to illustrate how and why this me also just quickly show you how the fifth power Really easy. Start by multiplying through with our basic r and s identities. 6 plus 5 plus 3 is first position into the last position. Alright, it feel like there is something missing from our example, right at the top, strange to start with 1? Well, no problem. Here is the missing identity 0 times r plus 0, works. We can even backtrack 1. And our two new identities also fit in a la 1 plus 0 plus 0 on top equals 1 below. Great! left sides of our identities. Powers of s. What and multiply through with r, followed by you get Interesting, hmm? Multiply through with of course you can multiply anything in sight by interesting isn't it, a whole infinite array case of the golden ratio. Now let me show you degrees to make it into an infinite pyramid. Let's focus on these three entries Can you see it? Yes, the sum of the two numbers right above. Now does bell? Of course, Pascal's triangle :) In Pascal's to the one below. And actually the same is true follows from the our basic phi identity, this our basic r+s = r times s identity. Have a look. all the powers of s go up by one. If, instead, triangle moves here. But then by multiplying the addition triangle anywhere in our grid which everywhere. Wonderful :) Well, so far we've only turns out that the Pascal like addition rule also fact, it applies times three, to the three Here, just focussing on the s terms, the numbers pattern. There, 1 + 0 equals 1. 1 + 1 equals you focus on the r terms, the middle elements of are also the right sides of the triples. Here what we see in front of us is still only sort of all this also works for negative powers of s and 2d grid of identities that is Pascalian in four Then s components, r components and constants. four different Pascal like grids in there, there component at the top is the same as the constant the pattern. This means that the constant grid Insane, right? Challenge for you: What happens if do a reverse r maneuvre followed by a reverse s have? Leave your answers in the comments. What's course! How did that work again? Well, here is that derive the general formula below. Write down identity. Figure out the second solutions to for free. Now solve for F(n) and Binet's formula our Pascalian miracle grid. Okay. So, instead of identities. Then the general formula at the bottom then on the right the general s component, the term. Next here are the three equations that equations have three pairs of solutions that can r and s. Here they are. These three pairs then equations. Right, the one on top is the one we B(m,n) and C(m,n) to arrive at the formulas something extra nice. If you know a little bit derived using matrices. Well, there is also some pretty symmetric matrices capital S and R. Try it turns out that this matrix product R to a special last row. For example, R to the power And you've probably guessed it already the r and constant components in here. Now there is replace the lowercase letters by the uppercase our matrices satisfy all the same identities as they satisfy our basic s and r identities. My amazing discovery from falling into oblivion and explore this incredible rich gold mine of mission is to trigger a gold rush :) Of course, be worth talking about. Well, maybe another check out Peter Steinbach's papers. There Also now that a lot of people will get to know the chase is on for finding rho and sigma in interest please leave a comment. Next, if anybody this video and ask him to get in touch with me. in Albuquerque in the U.S. but must be retired who showed me his amazing rho and sigma rectangle rectangle. There Aaron's beautiful rectangle with of insightful ways. I'd seen an article by Peter inspired by this rectangle. Alright, and that's it some visuals of interesting bits and pieces