<i>Noooooo.</i> <i>Noooooo.</i> <i>I know college is really about <i>But here you can get <i>as well as an education through life.</i> <i>Also, so much of it is that <i>I thought was... was rare.</i> <i>And so when it came time to apply to <i>No, Morehouse is the only school <i>Walking down Brown Street <i>and affirming you.</i> <i>That's something that they do here.</i> <i>And I love that part of the <i>Southern hospitality <i>Students here, they're extremely We produce more black attorneys. We produce the most black doctors. Everybody around you, they're black This place is sacred. <i>I think this is a safe space <i>And this school was going to <i>would not have gotten at other And if we had white people just I will feel... disrespected. Completely. <i>Everything that I am Do you feel like you I feel like I belong here, It's that simple. [Minority Reports] [Historically Black Colleges] We're on the campus of Morehouse is an historically black, that was founded a culturally safe space to black predominantly white institutions. You will not replace us! In 2018, their existence for a lot of the same reasons. In the past year alone, hate groups are openly marching a white student admitted on Instagram black roommate's personal belongings, another black student had the sleeping on a couch in the common still victims of racially The thing is, Morehouse, like so many the most difficult financial climates And in order to keep the recruitment <i>Don't we want to come together?</i> <i>For some of you, coming together And while shows like <i> have dramatized the tension around on college campuses, that tension is very real at So, we're here to meet Tiago. He's a non-traditional freshman and we're going to find out what at an all-black school. -Tiago? -What's up, homey? -What's your name, man? Chris, nice to meet you. So, I've got to actually put on my Do you mind if I sit on your bed? No, I got you, I got you. Always ask first, I appreciate it. I'm not trying to violate. So how's freshman year been? It's a little bit of a culture shock, a new city. You know, when I first got here they always come up to you and ask you, You know, people looking at me, like, So, that's something that But, the cool thing is that it's representative of Southern which I really appreciate. So, my middle name is actually Jimi, That's cool. My dentist gave me this to me, that That's awesome. You know, growing up in a and elementary school, and then transitioning to a in my high school, you get to see I think it just psychologically, where I'm naturally more gravitated than the white community. What made you want to Why Morehouse? I think I just wanted something, How did your friends and peers how did they My family was cool with it, but I that, you know, it was And that's no knock on them, And then, you know, peers... they didn't respond initially well -So, kids they ridiculed you? At first, it was a hard process. This was my dream, right? So, I had a ton of self-doubt and sort of identity crisis, "Oh, what am I doing? Because everybody's saying But every time I took a trip people would tell me, "Oh man, I was like, "OK, why am I being by strangers, than by people Morehouse, like many of the 101 HBCUs was founded in the late 1800s who were refused access to Over time they evolved into where black students were encouraged the oppression that lived outside These environments helped sculpt Morehouse in particular has produced Spike Lee, and Samuel L. Jackson. But this legacy is put at risk with like we've seen at West both HBCUs with black student So I spoke with Damon Phillips from to find out why. I mean, ultimately, it's Ultimately, we need to fund our institutions differently And so a lot of schools are now non-traditional HBC students: white students, Asian students, There's a big push. Has that been met with any criticism A lot of people have issue with it. You know, you guys are current how does that make you feel when you that there can be a growing number I'm on the fence about it, because I should still accept people However, at one point in time we because of the color of our skin. Now, I'm not saying they're not welcome here, no. But I am saying... Here at Morehouse College, they're What's taught here is not only for where we are. But how we fight for who we are If you grew up in an environment and abused and just, you know, you really don't want to see them That bothers me because... we have to provide a safe haven So, there's a frame of thought That if you let one person in then, everyone will come in. And there are schools that we've Where you've got Kentucky States and West Virginia States, which is So, people are afraid of that You'd be more a kind of If you have ten black students, that's not going to affect But a hundred may. If they made the decision to come to that there is a level You know, you have to assume that decide to come to an HBCU. The white student that conceivably wouldn't necessarily have because they don't understand If they're not coming in you know, this is the knowledge that Have you ever gotten a "How to I missed my copy. I'm very comfortable with things Do you feel like your presence here, supposed to be a culturally for people that don't look like you? I see how people would think I know that I come here as a In this country, Now, how can we use our privilege <i>Fire it up <i>Just know that you cannot hate <i>We are the oldest and the coldest <i>Break it down</i> How do you feel like this experience The most fundamental change, is... turning me away from <i>Ice cold</i> Decentralizing the attitude The attitude that I'm smarter, that I deserve this opportunity the attitude of supremacy. Understanding that, had I not come I probably would have never delved the true history of this country. All the things that the to keep people down. I wouldn't think it's fair for as a person that is seeking But, how do you respond to people who to be black? Just recognizing that No, I don't want to change, you know, or act like they stereotype But there are elements to black <i>I couldn't find stereotype -Woah. -The Feds. -The CIA is monitoring you right now. "We're losing one." Textbook. The grilled chicken, You said the grilled chicken, Yellow rice, yeah. I'm sure all of you had, sort of like an idea of what Morehouse by the time that you got here. Did you guys think that you were when you got to Morehouse? No. Of all people like... -Yeah, that's funny. He stays in the dorm next to me too, I was very kind of "What are you doing here?" I didn't expect to meet Tiago, and even after I did meet Tiago, I didn't expect to Well at first I didn't know So I didn't trust Tiago too much. Everyone was a little bit skeptical just because, in America, we kind white people coming into black spaces -Right. He's not doing this He's doing this for the same the same reason Brandon's here. And when he explains to me why he it's like, "Wow." That's mind blowing, you know? He kind of has the same vision So the only reason that I'm is because of these that guys like Khalil, guys like men of Morehouse, throughout my life, that have So really, I'm just After speaking to Tiago I knew the wrong thing to do was to because then you can't change him. So in order for me to change his What is the thing that you love What do you value the most What I pretty much love the most is That unique mission of having that just changed the And that's something that I Have you taken any leadership So, I am the president of this dorm, Because of, you know, the obvious. -Really, what's the obvious? in probably the most famous dorm being the president of that. That's... very ironical, right? Is that the right word? So your being the president of Graves Oh, definitely. How did you become president? I ran an election. And I remember I wanted to run because I didn't think president I didn't have that courage, but and then I ran. What somebody taught me was that it's it's always about the message. Have you had to confront your at this institution? Yeah. A student earlier this semester In like a... condescending undertone, right? Anywhere, you know, people are I was a little bit anxious and You know, "I hope people accept me." People might say something or It's fine. It's not personal. Especially because most of But it's OK. The history of this country, right, and all the oppression, I would say 99 percent of my extremely amazing. That one percent, I don't What's up, bro? -Alright. At the end of the day, everybody I judge, you know, you judge. We all judge. But when people get to know me, their own perspectives. We're going to go talk to Professor and former professor, to get her historically black colleges and When you're walking across a campus who also walked on that lawn, right? Who sat in those rooms. The legacy is palpable. know that it was carved out for you, says something very different about your potential. At least for four years you're not And so, when a white student says, "I wanted to try something Or, you know, "I felt this calling What do you hear? Well that's nice. But you can't... You don't understand what it meant this side to be here. You don't know it. What does that mean though? That means that the shared... what that institution has stood for, Us, black people. Is it reverse racism to have schools OK, so I don't even understand that And I get that it's an argument, it's Racism has to do with structures, all of that. Not, "It's not fair because you're and I'm white and I should That ain't... If that's what you're calling I ain't trying to have a Do you guys feel like it is showcase the experience of a non-black student I mean I genuinely want to... -I would like to hear an answer. No. Controversial? Yes. Why do you say controversial? Because, of course society How come "they" can get into but we can't get into where This is a space where people that for the last 400 years have come Yet, when we get here, when the national media who do they The only perspective that's relevant is the perspective of a young person I do like the fact you're here to But at the same time, there is student can bring to the culture It's us culturing him. So when you ask about this question I'm going to just be blatant, into a predominantly black space. We're at Morehouse right now, Only because so many students came to To not be dehumanized. To be the most human that they could Do you guys take issue with the fact of recruitment dollars that student to Morehouse, or Spelman, -Is that a fact? -I didn't even know that. That is problematic. Do you think they could integrate? This place is sacred. Our ideas, who we are as people, And if we had white people just and 40 percent of the population, I I would love if a white person with and learned about us as black We have a lot to offer, and I think we want to keep that Because that's all we've got. <i>You can look at it... Come see what black people can do. Like, I don't want to do that. You can learn my history, like, in We come here to escape all that. I'm in pain because... you all don't see the bigger picture. You see what's in front of you. Here's the bigger picture. Morehouse and Spelman recruit the and put them next to the best There has always been Always. When I was a student here, That was his name. Any student that comes to the they're going to be They have no choice. The reason why we don't have It's about money. It's not about But look what we do, what we have. <i>-Speak. Look at what we have. I think that students have a right These schools have, for a long time, get an education. been a place you can get an our students are coming from seen a black instructor. That fear of, "Oh my God, they're is rooted in a really personal place And I understand that. It's a good thing to expand the applicant pool People that criticize that have to the school is trying to figure Couldn't the introduction of the to the HBCU campus usher in Either we change and we adapt to struggle, a lot, and some schools are want to embrace what's coming. What is your response to someone you're only here Essentially that you are an In my case, you know, it's not true. Like, I genuinely care about this So I'll just pass these around. Is that part of the reason why you a student ambassador? That's definitely the main So, this is probably not you what A white student at a HBCU When I was a freshman in high school And he really embodied that And regardless of the racial dynamics I saw that potential in myself. But I would like to know so can anybody tell me where they're -From Indiana. -Philadelphia. -How about you all? OK, OK. Are you guys happy about the -Absolutely. And then the 76ers, they -Right. just to put that out there, sorry. Boooooooo. Ah, man! A lot of those first individuals space of some kind, recognize the value or an And I'm curious what the difference I guess, the way I try to look at it the campus, how can I get involved, How can I make Morehouse a So we're about to enter This is kind of a sacred I think this is a safe space for And I think it should I don't want this to spark a lot of I don't... that's not what I want. Yes? What percentage of the students do that attend Morehouse? I don't know those numbers. I do know that there might be three Me, somebody that's in the ROTC Coming here, meeting Tiago, this is the first time I've ever seen Why you would want to immerse I think throws a lot of people off and hearing his very honest desire to the privilege that he was born with, You look this way, right. This is Century Campus. Every year, in May, we graduate I think the most African-American all in one place. This used to be a Civil War site. Think about that from The most graduating are on top of the remains of fallen Yeah. If you are going to diversify, it's students like Tiago that you not people that want to come here and feel no calling to How's it going, bro? You good? -How you doing? How's it going, yo? But it's important to keep in mind and so many desks, and when you give well-intentioned non-traditional opportunity from a young black So do you have any feeling of regret away at this school from a young I will. I would be. And I would be if I don't earn it.