What is spin? It's something that apparently but what is it? In the video I'll explain how we know spin it. Spin was a latecomer to the quantum mechanics equation, and everything seemed to be working realised that some particles seem to have mechanics didn't predict, and the source To understand this we're going to need one Whenever a charged particle moves, it creates and you can see it for yourself, by putting In fact, if you have charged particles going field, that field pretty much looks like it's particles moving around, in circles, to act we know from classical physics it was built But eventually some experiments showed that I'm going to explain one of those, a simplified Let's say we have a bunch of electrons by not doing little loops, so they shouldn't a Stern-Gerlach apparatus. I'm not going to explain how the machine magnet is placed inside it measures it's up, it exerts an upward force on the magnet. exerts a downward force. Of course there are this, the magnet is still somewhat pointing It is proportional to how much this magnet for this magnet pointing down. Say a magnet But these aren't the only ways the magnet or left or right, or any combination, so what how much the magnet is up or down. If the upward. On the other hand, if a magnet was backward, it wouldn't feel any force and if we shot through a bunch of magnets in random here and in a pretty smooth distribution. Of course, if we threw in a non magnet, it So that's what we should expect with electrons. But we do the experiment and find something as if they're magnets, but they don't up to the same height, and the other half Let's look at this second mystery first. they're randomly oriented, but these results half of them where pointing exactly up and very wrong when we prepared them that meant something clever. Let's turn the stern gerlach the machine measures how much the magnet is of up and down. The more to the left a magnet If a magnet isn't pointing either left or Now let's use the same source of electrons pointing up or down, so if they go through at all. of them go left. So then were they actually can't be right either. Let me explain how to think of this in the videos. I can measure the up or downness of a particle, eigenstates? Well, this experiment showed fully down, and nothing in between, so there spin up and spin down. Now we can apply the describe the wavefunction of this particle, so I can fully write the state of this particle in classical physics this wouldn't be enough just tell you how much it's pointing up or right it is, and also how forward or backward. Let's see what happens when we do some arbitrary number is bigger, it has a bigger chance of It doesn't go 3/4 of the way down ever though, But what about if I flipped the machine on In Quantum mechanics, if you tell me the wavefunction to figure out what the wavefunction is in that, we just need to know how to convert coefficents should be equal in size, if we fully up can't be pointing either left or up, but is being measured for left and rightness it shouldn't be biased towards one side. Now we just need to decide the sign of each and that left, then this turns out to be the And this is something you'll recognise from Ok, so now I've shown you how quantum mechanics more difficult question, 'what is spin?' so why are they magnetic? This is what was on their own axis. The idea is, if you have bits of charge are moving in a circle, and magnet. But we know this is wrong. If this the electron should be- it's bigger than conclusions. These days we think the electron point- and that can't spin. I think this image of the electron spinning, because it makes all kinds of incorrect predictions, stops us from asking about what it is. But, of other physics terms I don't understand. like we define those things by how we measure is that thing that makes some particles act the future as we understand more physics, of deeper physics. There is some hope for to quantum mechanics in an ad hoc way. This quantum mechanics and relativity, something While this was awesome, I don't feel like it comes out of the maths, it still doesn't it exists. Maybe there are some properties spin is one of them. There was so much more I could have said about it would be fun if you guys taught each other In the description, I've put a whole lot I would love if you picked one of more of You can present your work in any format you social media accounts, on your own website to make it into a video, but I know that's As for the content, you should know that some are ones I don't know the answer to despite to just make an attempt- this doesn't have claim to answer questions but leave big gaps, And some of these questions are still unanswered, So then your task isn't to necessarily definitively you point out why you don't understand something, worry about being dumb. Not knowing things dumb. I'd love if you read each other's responses. and start a discussion, then awesome I'm Anyway, good luck, I'm really looking forward