It is the story of a conflict and of which no one sees the end. The story of a hatred who have been fighting Suicide attacks. Air raids. Urban guerilla. Every day, the powder keg This conflict, which no one understands It is this story Why did some Jews decide to the ancient kingdom of Judea after 2,000 years of exile? Why did they fight How did they impose themselves against the Arabs of Palestine? Just a few years after suffering one of the greatest traumas For years, movie lovers filmed their adventures. Jews. Arabs. Their films testify the violence, but also their daily lives, their hopes and their dreams. We found these amateur films for you. With Barbel and Ella Weiler, two little German Jews who narrowly escaped Nazi persecution With the Katz family, Jews from Eastern Europe before illegally joining With the Arens, Zionist activists. We will tell you about the tragedy and the odyssey of the Jewish people We will also see the Said family, Arabs from Jerusalem. With the Kouri in the city of Jaffa, as well as several actors We will follow them in their revolt and on the roads of exile. From Hitler's accession to the establishment of a look back at these 15 crucial years and which continue Berlin. The year is 1933, April. Hitler has been in power Germany's new leader is He accuses Jews of dominating He said to one of his deputies: "The economy is completely "It is their universal empire,&quot; &quot;which they have extended &quot;The fight between "What's at stake is simply A month later, He organizes nocturnal ceremonies where books written by are burned. Hitler entrusted the head of propaganda, with converting the German people German men and women, the era of absolute rule by Jewish intellectuals The success of the German Revolution made it possible Now is the time of the German man. Ten years earlier, simply a far-right activist, "I hate the Jew by instinct "It's poisoning us." "It's hateful and repugnant to me," "from the bottom of my soul." At the same time in the vicinity of Berlin. Meet the Weilers, a small vacationing by the lakes. They are Hitler's enemies. The father, Friedrich, He's filming his wife Hilse and the two little girls they had, Ella and Barbel. He is an image enthusiast. He gives his daughters a camera so that they immortalize In their country house, Barbel and Ella live like all little German girls It is paradise. We are all together. My mom is the best mom And my dad is the strongest. He's a former soldier. He received the Iron Cross but for some time he has been saying From the window of Little Ella recently attended I am afraid of soldiers Dad explained to me that They sing, they walk at pace in black boots. Just seeing them is horrible. The Weilers are very integrated Little Ella goes to public school, and since the Nazis came to power, The other children come up to me My teacher likes Nazis. He explained to my father that Jews are not allowed I don't want to go Designated as public enemies, the Jews are, however, Less than 1% of the population. Less than 1% in France as well, where, despite the extreme right, is preparing to form the Popular Front In Western Europe, most Jews are perfectly integrated. They obtained equal rights with Some of them, the inventor of psychoanalysis are among the great figures In fact, of the 11 million Jews in Europe, most are elsewhere. They are in the East. Look at this exceptional document, shot when Hitler came to power. This world has completely We are in Munkacs in Czechoslovakia. Here, Jews make up almost They live in community. By practicing small trades and in the cult of their Some of them, religious Jews, dress in clothes inherited from They have their And 3,000 years after Moses, they continue Communities out of time, far from the great upheavals and at the center of which Here, wearing a fur hat. Keep doing Shabbat. Listen to me, stick to Shabbat Say the prayers We don't have the right to do less, In 1933, the Jews of Munkacs are far from their community will have been However, Jews have lived Traditionally in Europe, they are held responsible for all the They are accused of living off Of being parasites. And of belonging Above all, Christians consider them 2,000 years ago. Absurd accusations and cause outbreaks of violence. Massacres that "thunder" in Russian. The last wave of pogroms dates when thousands of stormed Jewish neighborhoods tens of thousands of people. An investigator, Old people and children Thousands of women Victims have been mutilated Their right arms and or vice versa. Here, the moral state approaches dementia. In Eastern Europe, more and more Jewish families are now considering This is the case in Kaunas, in Lithuania, Traders who are also very and have been living in the country This family movie dates from the year Here are the grandparents, They are walking on the boulevards Zvi, who is three years old. Deloliya and Yitzhak, All we have left is of the year of their marriage. Their eldest daughter is 16. Her name is Dita. She perceives more and more I have heard about the pogroms My dad recently said &quot;Take our money&quot; &quot;and take the whole family &quot;because the Lithuanians will soon We are advised to leave, but I don't want to. Everyone loves me here, and life is so good for me. 200 kilometers away, the same year. We are in Riga, the capital of Latvia. This is the Arens family, like the Katz. They own a small They also film with one of the very first Same superficial smiles, However, among the Arens, some have already made This is the case for this 16-year-old boy, His name is Mickael. As this photo shows, Mickael Arens, here, belongs to a youth organization. He is one of these Jewish activists we see more and more in village squares. They are called the Zionists. They adopted an anthem, The HaTikvah. Which means hope in Hebrew. Their hope is to reach Palestine on the other side and to settle here, in Jerusalem, the ancient capital Zionism was born long before Hitler. For the founder of the the Jews will always wherever they are. Whether they integrate or live as a minority according to their tradition. They must therefore constitute and found their own country where they can Physical training, Hebrew lessons, before their departure thousands of young Jews They learn agriculture They are the future pioneers of Israel. In the early 1930s, Mickael joined one of these farms Betar, a radical Zionist movement. We will sleep We sing. We're training. For us, it is a necessity to fight because we all share This land which is In the 1930s, The Middle East was After the First World War, France was given control Already present in Egypt, Great Britain administers and Palestine. In 1917, with the Balfour Declaration, Great Britain officially opens Each year Thousands of them land in the and whatever they were They join a small local community which has never left the region and which has never stopped praying It is the cradle of Judaism. The last remnant of the temple the king of the Jews. The temple was destroyed all that is left today are A few meters above the wall, the Muslims have built one of their According to the Koran, The Prophet Mohammed gained It was also in Jerusalem Each year, thousands of people to the site of Jesus' death. It is on this thrice holy land where the Zionists intend to Founding their new homeland and settle permanently. All over Palestine, they found a new type the kibbutz. In one of them is Joel Iglinskiy. I had no future in Poland. Here, we are a big family. We are going back to farming Men and women, while our children are in daycare. On the kibbutz, we share everything. Everyone pays their salary and we make all of our decisions For these young idealists the experience is unique. With his comrades, Joel Iglinskiy simply intends We are committed The red flag flies We admire Herzl, We are revolutionaries and we know that On site, the inhabitants who witness What do the Zionists want? How far will the colonization Why are they coming to Palestine? In the 1930s, the Arabs of Palestine They represent two thirds and are spread throughout in hundreds of towns They are called Palestinians in memory of the Philistine people in antiquity. Before the arrival of the British, they lived under for four centuries. Watch these color images shot Their oriental culture Some of them are Bedouins. They live in the desert but most of them are peasants. They work for great like here, on the coastal plain, where the famous Jaffa oranges They are exported For several years now, some Arab owners have agree And little by little, the face of Palestine is changing. In 1935, Jews already represented they created dozens of villages This does not prevent from living the pre-war years and in a certain welfare. This is the case, in Jerusalem, Christian Arabs who own Filmed by his father this boy is called Edward. He is the future Palestinian writer Our family home was in Talbiya, a neighborhood of The imposing two-storey villa and a lovely garden in which my sisters and I could play. It was an idyllic time. On their family movie, nothing yet suggests is about to end. At the same time, in Germany. The situation becomes The Nazis who seek to create multiplied provocations and anti-Semitic inscriptions On the trams and even on public benches. on public benches. At the Nuremberg Congress in 1935, the Nazis officially exclude Jews Among German Jews, and more and more people to France, Great Britain, or the United States. This is where a Jewish community But visas for Western countries Thus, more than 100,000 German Jews where the doors of immigration A hundred Jewish families aboard the Mariette Pacha, of the Most of them are the laws of the Reich prohibiting Jews The Zionist associations welcome and give them the means Among the passengers on the our Jewish family from Berlin. Unlike the other passengers, the Weilers come Without knowing yet whether with their two little girls and leave Germany definitively. They continue to film To convince his wife, Friedrich Weiler He takes her to the shores They visit Tel Aviv, the Jewish metropolis emerged from the ground They visit German friends However, after a week of travel, they are still hesitant In Jerusalem, they found a city in turmoil, close to revolt. At the call of the grand mufti, Palestinian Arabs demonstrate and its policy favorable One of their spokespeople explains. Since the beginning demonstrations follow Getting more and more violent. Attacks on kibbutz, attacks in the middle of the street. In 1936, what is called the Great One of its leaders is called He launched the guerrilla war We rebel against injustice, against Zionism, to defend our Holy Land. The English abused Arab blood. Today, we are ready In a few months, the revolt and forces the British The repression is relentless. Like here, in Jaffa where a neighborhood and razed. It takes the British army two years but it's only temporary. In 1938, on one of the Arab peasants we find a leaflet which sounds like a warning. Today, you are cruelly trying to of our houses, of our honor. Know that never, not before having will we lay down our arms. The same year, in Germany. The date is November 9, 1938. In front of the population which the Nazis set fire to the places It's Kristallnacht. A gigantic pogrom during which and a hundred Jews are murdered. A few months ago, Germany took control of Austria where 200,000 Jews live. In a new outburst of anti-Semitism, tension rises sharply in Europe and the risk of a new world war Some Jews in Europe realize that the countdown has begun. Shortly before Kristallnacht, The Weilers made the decision and to emigrate to Palestine. On the photos taken before departure, but Friedrich notes "We are spending the last &quot;Until the end I feared &quot;would ask us for "Last night, my mother thought she was Friedrich's mother, Ida, decided to stay in Germany. She tries to reassure Nazis. It's nothing to worry about. We have them All that, you'll see, will pass. Berlin. the day of departure. The parents take final photos The grandmother, Ida, came to say Ella, her granddaughter, is excited. She doesn't realize it's the last time I am excited about this trip. A new life is beginning. We're crossing Austria where Hitler has just We're crossing the Alps. It's the first time I've seen And then that's it, The Nazis, with their viciousness, The family embarked for Palestine. Our boat is called the Jerusalem. To pass the time, my mom knits, and I read books all day long. After five days at sea, The parents have chosen to settle where they think their two daughters They will soon learn that to have been able to Because in the spring of 1939, the situation changed abruptly. Great Britain, which is still makes a decision that calls To secure the support of the Arabs the British decide to stop To limit the number of entry visas as well as purchases of land. A catastrophic decision for the Zionists who intended to make millions before the outbreak of war. Their leader in Palestine, David Ben Gurion, in turn, He decides to accelerate the these creations of colonies which multiplied in previous years and which rely on It is July 12, 1939, near the Negev Desert. The Zionist militants have of prefabricated houses On those lands they previously Among them is Joel Iglinskiy. "You have to go fast." "Everyone knows what to do." "You build palisades by putting "to stop the bullets." "We're going up the watchtower." "We forget the fatigue" "because we are the soldiers "and we know that we're doing In the summer of 1939, as the Jews held their breath. Some, as we have shown, sought refuge by emigrating Others still hope to continue espite the danger. It will only take a few months for them The project of the destruction of It is this new chapter that we are September 1, 1939, Germany invades Poland. It is the beginning of From the first weeks, the Nazis, increased the exactions. Forced labor, beaatings, humiliations, as shown by dozens of photos of German soldiers Hitler ordered the Polish Jews men, women and children, in quarters reserved for them, the ghettos. The Nazis chose to isolate their to starve them little by little, before, soon, deciding to The massacre began on 22 June 1941, when the German army A lightning offensive which, pushes the Soviets back In the conquered cities, the Nazis immediately launched with the help of the population. Everywhere, like here in Zloczow, pro-German nationalists, far right activists and defendants launch pogroms under the encouragement They accuse Jews of being which were committed by In Lvov, Ukraine, a German soldier films the crowd Dozens of Jewish women, after being raped, will be murdered An SS sergeant, Felix Landau, is surprised by "We're seeing things that are "Hundreds of Jews "holes in their heads," "broken hands" "and eyes hanging out "because of the hits" "full of hate" "and anger." In a few hours, the massacre Again on the 4th of July, Germans approach This is where Dita Katz Do you remember that film When the Germans arrive, the "Don't be afraid of the Germans." "I knew them during "They are civilized people." However, from the very first hours, his own son Itzhak disappears The rest is told by "Lithuanians with sticks and crowbars," "hit the Jews to the ground," "on the skull or on the face." &quot;Without distinction,&quot; &quot;they are beaten&quot; "until they no longer show "In three quarters of an hour," "the one who is presented killed fifty people.&quot; "All around, the Germans In Bavaria, from his mountain chalet, Hitler approves pogroms. But he wants to frame and rationalize them. He instructed Heinrich Himmler, to set up special units: Their mission is to remove any trace of the Jewish people The Einsatzgruppen will shoot In Libau, not far from Kaunas, the soldier of the German navy, Reinhardt Wiener, films one of these massacres A truck is coming. Guards force Jews There are weak and sick people they help each other out. They are pushed towards When they get to the trench, they have to walk over bodies the firing squad they are told to turn around waiting for the next group to arrive. The scale of the massacre In six months, the Einsatzgruppen murdered In front of his troops, Himmler gave the order. "What to do with women "I don't think we can exterminate men" "and at the same time let "so that they can take revenge on At the end of 1941, information about the genocide In Palestine, the Arab population remains Even though its spiritual leader, exiled by the British, He raised a regiment of The Jews, on the other hand, to stop receiving news This is the case for Mickael Arens, the young Zionist from Riga, and who joined the police force. He is unaware that his mother, who remained in Latvia, was killed in the first days Friedrich Weiler, too, can no longer Ida stayed in Berlin. On November 2, 1941, "Horrible news from Germany." "The Jews here are being "and sent like cattle to Poland." "This news is so inhuman&quot; &quot;that it's hard to believe it." "They are asked to dig&quot; &quot;and they are slaughtered In November 1941, Ida Weiler, the grandmother, has She is here in Lodz, Poland, with 140,000 other Jews. All those who escaped are now locked up in ghettos. This is the case, in Kaunas, With her mother, and her fiance Yehuda, Dita no longer harbors "I know since my father disappeared" "that the Nazis are "What is happening "and no one is helping us." At the end of 1941, the Nazis, who occupied launch the final solution. It is the second phase From everywhere, in France In Romania, in Yugoslavia, in Poland, Jews are grouped together then directed in panic to unknown destinations. It's from Holland, at the Westerbork that we have the most precise testimony These images were taken They are unique documents. Every morning, a train takes several A Jewish nurse, Etty Hillesum, "The cattle trucks are filling up "I see an elderly person going to "saying the prayer of the dead." &quot;The babies with squealing "Young women are already "Are these doors really &quot;Unfortunately, yes.&quot; &quot;Thin openings still let &quot;Will we ever be able to &quot;what happened here?&quot; For the world to realize the tragedy it will take another two years. Spring 1945, the end of the Second World War. After five years of nightmares, Europe celebrates victory One of the worst During the winter, Allied and Soviet soldiers liberated dozens of extermination Majdanek, Auschwitz, Bergen-Belsen. And the world has learned how In gas chambers and crematories which sometimes still burn even The toll is 5 million Jewish victims, 6 million, as we learn a little later. How did the world let At a meeting of the one of the leaders Nahum Goldmann, let his anger out. The port of Haifa, in Palestine, a few months after On makeshift boats sometimes the first survivors of the camps On one of these boats Garcher Rabinovich. "From where I am, Palestine "It's the first light "I am crying with joy." "Do you know what it's like "after being hated" "and driven from Relief for some, but concern for others. Faced with the arrival of Jewish once again, the Arabs of Palestine are protesting. In Jaffa, a teenager, Youssef Chaker, "Jews suffered horribly "But we Arabs have "Why should we suffer "Nazi genocide &quot;Why don't they create &quot;where they were massacred,&quot; &quot;instead of coming to us?&quot; To deter any new Arab revolt, Great Britain continues to It forbids Jews to but this time it gets all the undocumented and groups them together After the Nazi death camps, holocaust survivors experience British prison camps. They will react soon. In Europe, 150,000 Jewish survivors like here, in Austria. They are reluctant to return where they fear returning to the Among them is Dita Katz, who miraculously survived Despite the death of her father in 1941 Dita chooses to return In Lithuania, where she hopes to reunite and rebuild her life. Her younger brother Zvi, the boy filmed in 1929, is now 18 years old. He too survived the Holocaust, With his mother, they decide to go to Palestine. To circumvent the British ban, he made contact with and it's Zionist agents who are without identity documents and without a visa. In 1947, one of these trips was filmed by the By train, then by truck, Zvi and her mother Czechoslovakia, Germany, Austria. After several weeks of travel, they are dropped off at the foot of and it is on foot that they will "There are women and children with us." "But nothing can stop us "We are 2,700 meters "mom is not weakening." "We feel sure of ourselves" "because we know that we will finally On the other side of the border, they embarked at night, on a clandestine ship. It is from here that dozens of ships to land them High-risk trips. One of these ships, the Exodus, was recently boarded The collision caused and the Exodus was This time, the Zionists want to As soon as a ship is in sight, the 950 illegal passengers are and they take refuge Journalist Meyer Levin while his partner, Tereska Torres, "This boat is a modern jellyfish raft." "There is almost no air, no light, "Women, often hysterical, faint." "Around 1 a.m. a little boy was born." "The mother screamed After 12 days of navigation, as the ship is nearing a plane flies over It is followed by a British warship and orders the machines Unmasked, the passengers go out For them, as Tereska Torres The dream ends when the English soldiers "We are living the last hours "As we get closer to Haifa," "the city is rising before us," "so beautiful&quot; &quot;and forbidden "A company of armed and helmeted The passengers are all directed the British established It is there, locked behind new barbed wires, that Zvi Katz and her mother For them and for the Zionist activists, the situation has In Palestine, Jewish armed groups and to launch a campaign of terror. Extremely violent attacks which aim to subdue the English On clandestine radio, an 18-year-old terrorist, Gueoulah Cohen threats. "You, British people," "are going to pay for every tear of "and to whom you refuse help." &quot;Hell will enter your lives,&quot; &quot;and terror will flood "For we have taken an oath In Palestine, Arab attacks are now And the region is once again Then news arrives from New York It is November 29, 1947, at the An extraordinary general meeting One of those that will make history. Commission of inquiry, public hearing, speech. For a year, the international community has been and is preparing to vote on the In green, the territories offered to the Arabs, in blue, those that are In the middle, the Jerusalem area, which would be administered The Zionists accepted the division, but the Arab countries all announced To be adopted, the draft must receive Undermined by guilt The United States announced and Great Britain that The suspense concerns two countries. Tempted to the end by abstention, France has just given the Zionists It is followed by the Soviet Union. It's unexpected, but the major powers In a few minutes, has just progressed In the crowd in Tel Aviv who explodes there is the young Berliner "Our dream is "The Jewish state is "It's fantastic." "We dance, we laugh, we sing." "Everyone embraces each other "What a joy!" They crossed the borders reached their promised land they now have the support At the end of 1947, the Zionists Will the two parties now succeed According to the UN, sharing must be followed one Jewish, the other Arab. We will explain to you why did this project collapse and how the creation of Israel plunged and exile for decades. November 30, 1947, A young Arab from Jaffa, "Why should we give away "For them to turn it "And what will happen "Now there is only one solution, To defend their rights, thousands of peasants One of their leaders One of the heroes of He has only a few weeks "My soldiers have only basic weapons "We sent SOS to neighboring &quot;in vain&quot; "Yet the hate is so intense that In the opposite camp, The Haganah, the future army of Israel, Supervised by veterans it is made up of highly motivated Among them is Zvi Katz, here, He escaped from the Cyprus camp "All I think about is fighting." "For us, it's a matter of dignity." "We no longer want to be like animals "Never again will we allow ourselves The two young Berliners, they too were involved They have just learned that their grandmother died Assassinated by the Nazis. They are determined. "During the war,&quot; &quot;no one acted to save the Jews." "Today, we can only "If we don't help ourselves,&quot; &quot;who will help us?" In the spring of 1948, Fawzi al-Qawuqji and launch their troops to attack One of the targets is the the crossing point "We attack at 5 a.m., "I give the order "to destroy as many houses "They seem to have Opposite, the kibbutz defenders One of them, Joel Lotan, "We're trying to repel the enemy." "And we hope to hold out "Fortunately, after a few days," "Haganah soldiers end up " from Haifa." In a few days, Offensive, counteroffensive, the Haganah, better organized manages to gain the upper hand and to take thousands of prisoners. In the conquered cities, and is considering On April 9, 1948, In Deir Yassin, Jewish extremists massacre including children. A carnage of which no image remains, but the news of which goes and triggers panic. In Jaffa, a few rare candid photos show residents abandoning and leaving the city. Among them is Youssef Chaker. "We heard about Deir Yassin "We heard that the Arab countries "In the meantime, "I get in a truck, we pile up This is the beginning A few streets away is Afif Elkouri. "The whole city is fleeing." "On Arabic radio, we are told that "but is it for sure? " Those who have fled will never From now on, the city of Jaffa, will officially be considered May 14, 1948, It is 10 a.m. in the port of Haifa. The British governor Alan Cunningham Britain ends three decades and leaves the two sides Six hours later, in Tel Aviv, the leader of the Zionists, decides to proclaim the Jewish State. After years of struggle, the Zionists are reconnecting Behind their flag will be a 150,000 people who and who will become Today, 60 years later, they represent 20% of the population. But most of the Arabs in Palestine Almost an entire population, men, women and children, It is called the Nakba, The exodus that began in April will affect more than 700,000 people. Two thirds of the Arab population. The entry into war against Israel the day after Ben Gurion's speech, doesn't change their fate. After several weeks of battle and the after several spectacular advances, the Arab armies are retreating A situation that further reinforces According to the latest historical half would have been by Israeli soldiers. They found refuge in in Jordan or Lebanon, Among them is Abu Hicham, who is19. "They gave us tents." "The ground is wet." "We don't have "One can't live normally anymore." "They give us bread and cheese." &quot;I feel humiliated and &quot;to return to my village.&quot; "As long as it takes, we will fight." Hate, humiliation, exile. In 1948, The history of the Arab-Israeli conflict is just getting started. Today, Abu Hicham, 78, He lives in a Palestinian camp a few kilometers from Afif Elkouri. For 60 years, neither has been allowed to return Palestine. Some have emigrated to the West, like Edward Said, the little A university professor in New York, Edward Said was one of the most famous until his death in 2003. On the other hand, in Israel, despite the trauma Mickael Arens, the young Zionist from Riga, in Galilee. Very marked by her childhood memories, the little Berliner Ella Weiler married a Jew who like her. They had two children. Her sister, Barbel, married an Auschwitz survivor She lives with him in Tel Aviv. Grateful to her father for making him leave Germany It was only in 1972 that Dita Katz There she met with her brother Zvi, They live in Tel Aviv in the murdered by the Nazis. Perhaps the most surprising At the age of 99, the kibbutz he created in 1939. More than ever, he remains faithful to