Our family that visited last week And after a wonderful ten day visit, I'd say the hardest part of living abroad Still, we really can't complain another is just around the corner. notably during the summer months. with a few days before my mom and bonus just the three of us again, Of course. So today I'm going to continue digging and working with the dumper. I'm going to refill its hydraulic oil because there is a pretty nasty leak I think last time I don't think it's empty yet, And when it's getting too low, will heat up more I ordered the parts. to fix several leaks, ordered as well the brakes, I'm but I want to have them here working anymore, just going to fill up the hydraulic oil When it's sparked, so all the leaks go inside the cardboard I'm moving. You can hear the excavator squealing a little bit, And it's just in time You can see the black near. It was where the original hill was. The yellow layer is what I dug out. That's a little bit more difficult here used to be the old farming road So in this area, there is a lot of, gravel or the bigger rocks were probably the tractor So once beyond that point, I know from when I was digging this So it's around here next to the barn You can see it in the back as well. So we're almost there. It's a lot easier We're getting further and further. Takes a while. Little machines. Very big job. The machines are made for each other. That's not the problem. They're just little. But to do this task, it's okay. Where I want to pond, I think I will need to, rent Because I'm not going to take it's starting to get a very large pile. How is Bob the dumper? I'm going to call him Bob from now on. Bob and Fred. Fred the digger. Bob the dumper. It's doing its job. It's leaking everywhere where it can leak. Sometimes new leaks appear still eats oil about half a liter a day When it's standing still, it's not leaking The biggest problem I have with it is the hydraulic oil. It leaks too much So that's something I think I have at least two weeks of digging Maybe even more. It's that time again. They're thirsty. Both of the machines. It's actually quite okay. They don't use a lot of fuel. A lot less than I thought. Especially the dumper for being, It's, very economical to run. I have to fuel it and it isn't a big container to fuel And the excavator is maximum one time each day, It surprises me. So that's the advantage Going to fuel this one. I'm going to grease it like I always do, and then I'm going This is a product to clean the injectors If it works, I don't know. But it can't be bad. Always. If you put some product in, do it Put your product in whatever it is, So it mixes. Here. You have a nipple on the bottom. This one is working to grease it. And we have a nipple here, But it's the nipple here with the big ball So it's quite important because, the So I'm going to take the nipple off and try to free it, So here This is the grease nipple. So what? I'm going to first check if, If it is, then it's in there grease is coming out of the grease nipple. So it's not this. It's inside. So I'm going to take a small little wire and poke in there if it's hard or not, and try to free it up It's a bit the system of this. You can see it moving. It's what I want to grease. It's actually pretty much the same thing. And they're only bigger. So this one Above in there. Okay, so this little wire goes So I'm going to put some, WD 40 in there and, try again I'm going to let, WD 40 do its job. It's, noon anyways. It's time to eat. And afterwards, I know it's not the nipple. And here so it goes practically all the way down. So there's not much I can do. Then, put the product in And if this doesn't work, I know and it creates a pressure wave inside But it is an important joint to be able Okay, let's put the nipple back on. It's difficult to film this Tubes and stuff. And the way. But anyways, the nipple is good. There's some crud that came out. And I need to continue working. I'll try to push some grease in it, If not, then at least through a little bit. Nope. It's still not pushing through. Thing is, if it's been sitting dry that was in it, together stuff, gets rock solid to. Maybe tomorrow I'll take it off again put some more WD 40 or I. Look, if there is anything other. Maybe, diesel. Diesel decreases as well, I don't know if it's from standing on an incline But something is. And it is. Engine oil is dripping a lot. Alright, Bob well because there is a diesel leak So either this has been filling up the tray It is oil. Just going to quickly check the oil level. Okay. I seriously think we have a problem. That is diesel. It is diesel with oil, I think. No no, there is no oil, look. No No, it's clean. Ok, but it's dirty. Did you open it? It's the return. All right. Claude was just here and I asked them. So basically, like I thought So it was leaking diesel. Why didn't they have it before? Because most of the times I park the dumper on the flat surface. This time it was parked on an incline with its ass downwards. There's a little tray underneath there Gathered there together with some oil. And when I backed down, that's Nothing to worry about. It's still leaking oil, I need to get some, English keys, though, mine on the metric ones, they don't fit, so I'll have to look, But we can start working again. In case you're wondering why I put the dumper up like this is because my blazer is over there. Never have to move it every time. It's more work than just turning around I'm pretty good here. I'm a little bit deeper than what the laser is telling me, but that doesn't matter. I'd rather have the water going a little bit away from the bones than the other way around. So I'm trying to slow it So the barn is here, at least it will stagnate in the corners. Today it's Saturday, and they're predicting rain, it's really, really important finish this. To. I need to go towards the dam and spread it out a little bit, And if it gets too big and I won't be able to move it So I'm going to go down there, flatten it, and then I'm good for another Okay. set for today. And I'm going to empty the dumper. And then, I'm going to take a shower, I've had enough. It's been a few weeks. Doing the same. Slowly. We're getting there. Small machines, big task But, Fingers For now, everything is running smoothly has already, paid itself. I think it's amazing. He's, 40 or 50 years old. He hasn't been looked I think. But, despite his aches, So I'm very happy with both of them. I shouldn't say that loud still, I'm pretty amazed by that and it's still doing it. And it's shifting a lot of soil. So. Good morning. A couple of videos ago, company that wanted to work with us. Power Queen is the company they make, So different capacities, These are lithium ion phosphate batteries. So what will I be doing with them? We've got two of them. It's, So we have, 48V, and we can put them with the rest of our batteries Now we have a Victron system And now are we going to add these two, Queen batteries And with adding these two we will have 15. So it's actually, big increase for us. It will help us a lot because now. We don't have enough batteries, even if there has been enough sun. Most of the times, like now, Then they are fully charged. Then we're not taking enough power, So instead of doing that, back into batteries So I'm pretty excited and, see how they go. What do I do Because I can't know every brand I didn't is, I look them up on YouTube, So that's people, smarter than me. And most of the tests, So that's why we decided to, to work And see how they go. What have I done is, Power Queen. Luckily. And I like it when companies do that. They had a little booklet It shows a little bit what you can do because I'm going to put them But, you can put them on your boat These are perfect to put on your boat, a lot more than, lead acid battery. And the way a lot less. You can use them all going camping. You can put them in your RV, Whatever you like. And these are 25V each, different capacities, different sizes, So there's a lot of applications So what I did with, the manual. Yeah. You know me, I like to read it And that is what I did They are not fully charged. So what I did, I quickly wired is up. I took a panel solar charger and I charged each battery separately and what we need to do so the cells inside I'm going to be connecting them together I'm going to leave them Now that outside And after that is done, they are ready And, I'll make another video of that but I got to add some parts to the Victron But I have all parts ready, The only thing that I can't say because I can't tell you That's something I will keep you updated. And then one year these batteries are amazing. There's still, 99% capacity left. as with anything, Look into this. Batteries. Go and watch other people who do That's something I'm not going to do. Because I don't have to break them. But, I think Will Prowse. He's, an honest, honest guy who reviews I watch him a lot, I will be putting them in my system We are really excited. So, let's see how it goes. and, thank you Just to show you guys Now going to leave them. They say 12 to 24 hours, Let them do their thing, and then A few and although we had many plans for things we hope to visit, we all ended up to take things much slower than expected. My bonus dad, Dirk still found the energy though to harvest the potatoes. And my mom helped me with Odin and made sure we had a nice meal As we started regaining energy, it was time to give you Okay. Welcome to our wild little veg patch. So for grown ups, I was here with Odin, but he's really tired from daycare, And I'm going to continue The harvest isn't that spectacular. some of them have blossom and rot. As you can see. I didn't know tomatoes could have this, it's probably because there's not enough So that's an issue. They also suffered Where the leaves to curl up And that's probably They weren't protected from the rain. Tomatoes And then there was too much moisture. So not the best conditions to thrive in. Either way, we knew the spot wasn't ideal for a veggie patch, the whole veggie patch has sunlight But, definitely for tomatoes, it's not. I don't think it's enough. So next year, More in the open, And then the veggie patch will have, sun Some plants won't like that, But it's going to better Other than that, we're getting some nice courgettes. That's something that's really thriving here. So that's that's really great. two melons. But, they don't look happy. We'll see if they, they ripen. Okay, so this is our harvest. It's not much, but, This is it for now. there are quite a bit more on the plants, And it's not only in our garden. I spoke to Claude's wife, she's in her 80s And she said it was an exceptionally bad Even her She did get a lot of salad. Which she shared with us, but, yeah, I think, it's safe to say for our garden adventures And, I mean, next year