PAUL JAY: Welcome back to Reality Asserts Jay. We're continuing our series of interviews Thanks very much for joining us. JOHN C. KIRIAKOU: Thanks for having me. JAY: And just to remind everybody, John is Yes? KIRIAKOU: Mhm. JAY: And you'll find his whole biography below segments, 'cause this is going to make a heck working our way through John's life. You left Greece. You came back in the year on Greek terrorism. And then 9/11. So where KIRIAKOU: I was at CIA headquarters that day. morning with Cofer Black, later Ambassador of the CIA's Counterterrorism Center. And Condoleezza Rice, who at the time was the issue--which seems quaint now, but I had taken was ready and to come out to the side entrance JAY: Now, before we do that trip, what's the to George Tenet, that he had told President security briefing, that the number-one threat al-Qaeda. KIRIAKOU: Yes. JAY: That summer leading up to 9/11, Richard now that there were at least four or five, pieces of intelligence that suggested there even known--some of the people that ended pre-9/11--there's a lot going on. Now, I know much are you getting a sense of this? KIRIAKOU: Well, I mentioned this in my book. to spend the day with a visiting group of a day of briefings and meetings and handshakes thing all the time with our foreign partners. So, as part of that day of briefings, I had group in the CIA's Counterterrorism Center. analyst, which is what I had expected, to And Cofer at the time was the director of the Counterterrorist Center. And Cofer started off this briefing by saying--and terrible is going to happen. We don't know that it's something on an unprecedented scale&quot;. camps is one of jubilation. We're hearing and saying, I'll see you in paradise. We're attack--the salesman is coming with vast quantities match; things like that. And he said, we've problem is we don't know when and we don't I beg you, if you have any sources inside Well, these guys were silent. I think, frankly, And at the end of the day, after they had for spending the time doing the briefing. him, Cofer, I have to ask you, was that for And he said, things really are that bad; we're JAY: This is July 2001. Now, we know there and other areas of various intelligence agencies might be. KIRIAKOU: Yes. JAY: One of those models for military intelligence them might even fall down. We did an earlier Leopold, was one of them--actually talked That information, as far as we know, was suppressed, the food chain, which was rather odd. Richard Clarke talks about--in fact, did an we also have--we ran on The Real News Network--with it to him. He said that information, in the to him. Someone had to intervene not to let BOB GRAHAM: Fifty--five-oh--CIA personnel stop it. You have to intervene and say, no, got a report to that effect. JAY: We asked Senator Bob Graham specifically attack the United States, that no action was like that, and you've got the CIA saying something's KIRIAKOU: I remember Dick Clarke and Cofer this from the rooftops and no one in the Bush You're right about the modeling. We knew from in using airliners as a weapon. The CIA analysis be against American embassies again overseas, that in the past. JAY: Except then you get the memo,-- KIRIAKOU: Right. JAY: --the memorandum that bin Laden plans KIRIAKOU: Well, we wrote the memo. JAY: Right. You wrote the memo. KIRIAKOU: Yeah, we wrote the memo. JAY: The CIA writes the memo to, as a presidential KIRIAKOU: Yes. JAY: Right. KIRIAKOU: Yeah. So we had the memo. JAY: So where [crosstalk] information [crosstalk] KIRIAKOU: Which information's that? JAY: That Osama bin Laden plans to attack KIRIAKOU: All-source intelligence. The analysts on these little bits of information that they're attack was probably going to be in the United attack was in the United States. We didn't the FBI didn't tell us. JAY: This is the group in Seattle. KIRIAKOU: Well, they were all over the place. They were all over the place. JAY: But the FBI did have knowledge of certain--. KIRIAKOU: Or at least some of them. JAY: Some of them. KIRIAKOU: Yeah. Sure JAY: I think one in Seattle in particular two of the people--. KIRIAKOU: One of the hijackers? JAY: No. KIRIAKOU: I'm talking about the 19 hijackers. JAY: Yeah. Well, two of the hijackers, apparently, actually had some informant kind of connection CIA. KIRIAKOU: The FBI's relationship with the has been absolutely terrible. We don't like September 11, and probably for some time afterwards, Now, there were FBI agents, certainly, who Center, and there were CIA officers assigned that didn't necessarily mean that both sides JAY: You get a memorandum--and you write a gets a memorandum from the CIA saying Osama guys have intelligence at the level that he intelligence officers that something terrible think you cannot get Condoleezza Rice to listen KIRIAKOU: So this is one of the enduring mysteries the Bush White House was not focused solely JAY: [crosstalk] KIRIAKOU: We all knew what was coming. JAY: --seemed to be making efforts not to KIRIAKOU: It kind of seems that way. JAY: I mean, how do you get--Coleen Rowley's go into a computer of a guy that wants to KIRIAKOU: And not land. JAY: I mean, this is--how do you demote Richard CIA,-- KIRIAKOU: And they did. JAY: --who tells you the number-one problem's czar? KIRIAKOU: That's a good question. JAY: How do you tell--apparently, the FBI you to focus on white-collar crime or something KIRIAKOU: Right. There was an article just unequipped to handle counterterrorism cases. still not focused. JAY: Well, I guess what I'm suggesting is real evidence, hard evidence, that it's not KIRIAKOU: By whom? Who does the--. JAY: By the White House. The White House is They demote Richard Clarke. And then Richard when his hair is on fire. I mean, this is--I think? Is this, like, a deliberate culture what he said. GRAHAM: The fact that it was so pervasive federal government were moving in the same in Orlando who was chastised when he denied the president of the United States authorizing possibly denying us forever important insights have everybody moving in the same direction who is giving them instructions as to where JAY: So that includes before and after the GRAHAM: Primarily before the event. After that supports the activities of the Saudis permission given to the Saudis to act. JAY: There's got to be a coach. The coach Cheney,-- KIRIAKOU: Right. JAY: --but one can--he's not leaving, you what he's trying to say here. What do you think? Was there a deliberate And let me put one more little piece of context. Century this document that a lot of neocons for the assertion of American military power it even goes--it goes so far as to say international superpower, but now it's not really so necessary the regime changes we need. But they say we'll there's still the Vietnam syndrome, and only it exactly, but it's pretty close--galvanizing public support for this kind of a foreign Then we get what seems like evidence that KIRIAKOU: I don't know, to be honest with I can tell you that the war game model showing hundreds of models. To be able to pick out going to be I think was probably impossible. I can tell you, in the CIA I never saw people this attack, and having not enough information do it. JAY: And doing it in spite of the White House,-- KIRIAKOU: Yeah. JAY: --in a sense,-- KIRIAKOU: Yeah. JAY: --because the White House is not listening KIRIAKOU: They're not listening, they're not funding. Now, Dick Clarke, Dick Clarke was a hero of when the George W. Bush people came into power, position for ten years, he's gay, he's a liberal JAY: So why not give him the heave-ho? KIRIAKOU: And they demoted him. JAY: No, no, no. Why not give him the heave-ho cabinet-level access, and put in somebody Richard Clarke. KIRIAKOU: Well, Condi Rice took it over. It counterterrorism. JAY: Well, she's not even listening to the KIRIAKOU: Well, that's on Condi Rice, isn't JAY: Well, partly. KIRIAKOU: Yeah. JAY: But as I'm saying, there seems to be some series of--. KIRIAKOU: I wouldn't call it hard evidence, circumstantial evidence. JAY: There's certainly enough evidence that KIRIAKOU: Yeah, I would think so. Sure. But something like this up? It's just not going JAY: No, it's not. But the media doesn't have KIRIAKOU: Well, the media doesn't have the JAY: After we interviewed Bob Graham, agree KIRIAKOU: Absolutely. JAY: Bob Graham is a serious intelligence KIRIAKOU: Yes, he is. Highly respected. JAY: After he leaves the Senate, after he to impeach George Bush is 'cause he didn't book--after he says that the Saudis are directly and Leon Panetta appoints him to the external KIRIAKOU: Right. JAY: Like, he's not a marginal--. KIRIAKOU: No, no. He's a serious guy. Right. JAY: A serious guy. So I do this interview players running in the same direction, and agencies not being able to pursue what they America, he says there is a coach. That's organizations up and down the United States. free. We give them a transcript of the key even calls us to find out what we have. KIRIAKOU: That's the story of the mainstream in deep, investigative, serious reporting. JAY: I mean, I have to say, I think part of down and, you know, explosives and various KIRIAKOU: Yeah, I don't believe any of that. JAY: I think it's actually--you know, I've if 50 years or 100 years from now you turn should shut up right now, because there's evidence that there might have actually been agencies and leave the back door open. There's facie to look into it. And the stuff about out so much that it seems so absurd. And even way of something that is actually there and KIRIAKOU: Mhm. Mhm. Something important. JAY: Well, rather important--it's 9/11. If collaboration, and if it is with the Saudis, that the Saudi government is directly involved words, facilitating and funding, then--. KIRIAKOU: See, I never saw that. I saw Saudi the Saudi government or the Saudi royal family, JAY: He says so. He says the committee reached My own take, having interviewed quite a few they describe it more like a feudal structure, KIRIAKOU: It is. JAY: --many power centers. KIRIAKOU: Sure--well, no. There aren't many and that's the king. He's an absolute ruler. But there are influential people around the amount of money that they have. That's been Arabia. JAY: So you can imagine that something like the king. KIRIAKOU: Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, family, it's a highly respected, old family old man bin Laden was worth billions of dollars, construction magnate, and not just for Saudi and then really throughout the Middle East. a port, hospitals, hotels--it was bin Laden no blood ties to the royal family. They don't But the bin Ladens are a force to be reckoned I think it was people who had bin Laden kind financing al-Qaeda. It wasn't necessarily even members of the Saudi Royal family, although think it was these wealthy businessmen who keep its non-oil economy humming. They were JAY: I have no idea who's right in this, but has never been an investigation into what's the joint congressional investigation. KIRIAKOU: Absolutely. JAY: Graham, without ambiguity, says the word it by saying government. He says the government. He says, no, government. He says they have pages, and he's not allowed to say what's KIRIAKOU: I never saw any such intelligence. JAY: But you weren't in that section. KIRIAKOU: But I spent most of my career working I just never saw anything like that. JAY: Okay. Alright. We're going to continue up where he was on 9/11 and the atmosphere Please join us for the continuation of Reality