- What's up, Ray-Ray. - Finally, how can we even more magical? - I know you gonna make me works, so... (both laughing) (Cheryl vocalizing) So that's for the vowels. (both vocalizing) You work on the vowel placement- - Okay. Each exercise is full of (Cheryl vocalizing) Try sing it for me? (both vocalizing) - Hmm? (Cheryl laughing) (Raymond vocalizing) (Cheryl laughing) - It's okay. (Raymond vocalizing) - Good job and go. (both vocalizing) - That's right Ray-Ray. Good job, baby. Let's do a cool one. Start off on the chest, we go to the mix, we go to the head and then four vocal registers. (Cheryl vocalizing) - So cool, right? (Cheryl vocalizing) - It's so pretty. (Raymond vocalizing) - Mm-mm. - So that's not bad, not bad. - So when you do the (Cheryl vocalizing) You wanna make sure you don't - Yeah, yeah. - But you wanna like slide into it. - Okay. (Cheryl vocalizing) (Raymond vocalizing) - Sing it, Ray-Ray. (Raymond vocalizing) Sing it, baby. (Raymond vocalizing) Real nice. (Raymond vocalizing) It's perfection, and go. (Raymond vocalizing) Yes. (Raymond vocalizing) Be careful. Real good, baby. (Raymond vocalizing) So pretty. (Raymond vocalizing) Yes. (Raymond vocalizing) Sing, Ray-Ray. (Raymond vocalizing) You better sing it, Ray-Ray. You better sing in falsetto, come on. (Raymond laughing) You sound so good, baby. - Cause I knew when I was gonna come over I was like watching your Like, I know she gonna kick my butt. She gonna tell me off. Was Lauren (Allred) in this car too? - Oh, that's so sick. - Oh, my God. - Now you, baby. You are in Lauren's seat. We not gonna do no runs, we're not gonna even begin. Let's keep the silence, awkward silence. What did I tell you - Yeah. Every second counts- - Counts. - Okay. but use those seconds to let them know, &quot;Hey man, I'm here.&quot; Do some more runs. (Raymond vocalizing) Do it, Ray-ray. (Raymond vocalizing) Yes, right. (Raymond vocalizing) You and me we made a vow - Yes. For better or for worse I can't believe you let me down But the proof's in the way it hurts - Can I just tell you something? - Yeah. - Your articulation is so good, Ray-Ray. - Oh, thank you. I can hear that classical training, baby, all day. You tell your teacher I said, &quot;Hello.&quot; (both laughing) Oh man, your diction is impeccable. - Oh, thank you. You don't hear diction like that unfortunately, a lot of times You are killing it, Ray-Ray. - High level singing, high level. - Thank you. For months on end I've had my doubts Denying every tear I wish this would be over now But I know that I still need you here You say I'm crazy - You're gonna kill me. (Raymond laughing) - You're killing that You say You say You say - Okay. (hands slapping) - Open and up. - That makes the whole difference. (Raymond laughing) That's what I'm talking about. You say I'm crazy - I love it. 'Cause you don't think But when you called me baby I know I'm not the only one - I love it. Sing it again, &quot;I know I know I'm I know I'm not the only one - I love it. You've been so unavailable Come on, second verse, bring it. Gonna bring it. Now sadly I know why - Put some more on it, baby. Kill it. Come on, baby. Your heart is unobtainable Even though Lord knows you kept mine You say I'm crazy - You gonna have to chest I'm sorry. I know you got a chest without one. You got it, please. Please belt that for me. (Raymond laughing) You say I'm crazy - Exactly, hold that Hold it. You say I'm You say I'm crazy Show 'em you're a tenor boy. You say I'm crazy - Yes, show me your (Raymond laughing) You say I'm crazy 'Cause you don't think But when you called me baby I know I'm not the only one - Dude, Ray-Ray. 'Cause I have loved you for many years But maybe I am just not enough - Find the placement Maybe I am just not enough You've made me realize my deepest fear - Mm-mm. By lying and tearing us up You say I'm crazy You don't think I But when you called me baby I know I'm not the only one You say I'm crazy 'Cause you don't think - Kill it. But when you called me baby I know I'm not the only one I know I'm not the only one - Show off, show off. Give me some high notes. I know I'm not the only one And I know, and I know, and I know And I know, I know I know I'm not the only one - Ray-Ray, you killed it, Ray man. Baby, you sound so good. - Thank you. Thanks for watching this video. And if you guys wanna improve all you guys gotta do is visit me at... - Cheryl, Oh, God. cherylportermethod.com (hands slapping) cherylportermethod.com cherylporter- (both laughing) cherylportermethod.com - Baby, oh. - Oh, my, thank you. - You're a Star. Baby you're a Star! You got it. you gotta... We gotta do some... Somebody better. Hey, whoever watching this video, listen. (both laughing) How do you think your confidence is as a singer, Raymond? Honestly, how do you feel? - Sometimes I do have those But I feel like throughout the years I've definitely been coming into my own where I've been, you know, singing for like pretty Like, I wanna say 10 years, like 10 plus years of training and stuff, and I'm still training, I feel like every session that - Yes. - But sometimes, you know, 'cause I'm such a perfectionist, you know? - Yeah. - It's that Virgo energy. (laughs) - Yeah, yeah - You a Virgo too? - Yes, I'm a Virgo as well. - No, we both Virgos. - We're twinsies. (laughs) - Perfectionist. What's your birthday, baby? - August 24th, so late - I'm 28th. August is heart. When I was growing up, I wasn't a prodigy. I mean, I wasn't one of and everybody's like, &quot;Oh, my God, you're gonna It's like I had to study really hard. It's like nobody in my Nobody in my family was a singer. And so I didn't even have It's like, so when I wanted God bless her heart, she was like, &quot;Np, you're not gonna be a singer. Like, you're going to be broke. You ain't going find no job, you going to be on the streets.&quot; You know, it's just like And a lot of people don't understand that there are possibilities for people. - Right. And so thank God I got a scholarship. - Oh, yes. - I found people who believed in me. My teachers believed in me. And I think that's probably, like, the main reason is because I wanna help to realize you may not be the best but you can become the best. - Yes. - You can become your own best. - Yes, your own best. - Yes. - And so, even though I in vocal technique, I want you to go out there, don't think about the notes, don't think about the performance. Think about opening up your mouth and touching those people's lives, making them feel something, giving them some hope, giving them something Just like the lady that you sing for at the senior citizen's home. - Yes. - You know, that's what it's all about. So I want you to become a but don't get caught up on the technique. - Okay. (chuckles) - You know what I mean? - Get caught up on the soul. - On the soul. - 'Cause you got so much hard, baby. 'Cause if you get out there and and you're vulnerable and you show them, they all gonna fall in (both chuckling) Make the heart connection. - Okay. - Yes. - That's why we doing the exercises. - Mm-mm. - They're going to be there, baby. - Yes. - Touch the people with your heart. - Okay, I will, Cheryl. - Thank you. - Okay, let's do another exercise, baby. - Yes. Thank you, Ray, baby.