- Say hello to Europe's cutest bird. The little owl is known for its adorable It loves to live close to human villages, so I think it really likes us. Sadly, the little owl has So last year we went on Now we returned to see how This feels so fluffy. The results have far Then we discovered that the younglings are facing new obstacles that are putting the So of course we had to bring help. We're &quot;Planet Wild&quot;. Our story brings us a huge 600 square located on the outskirts of Berlin. It was right here that one year ago we completely fell in And then so did a lot of you. We learned that little owls meaning they need the right and natural diversity to thrive. But these landscapes have and that was especially true of Eastern Germany with leading to an extinction of However, after the fall the industry that had here in former east And that's when Peter They stood up to profit hungry developers and fought for the chance to give this one devastated Over the next 30 years, they gradually transformed Eventually they were convinced that the ecosystem had healed enough to bring the little owl back, and they developed a three step It starts with captive breeding. All over Germany, people in order to release them Like this lovely couple that - The next step is A fascinating process that we covered in detail In short, new owl pairs to breed and raise outlets of their own. Once they're grown up, to settle in nesting boxes that Last year, our community of 25 nesting boxes across a large area. Now, one year later, we're coming checking in on the baby alts. (upbeat music) Two hands full of fluff. I wish you guys could feel A big part of the process is monitoring the growing owl population. That means check in if taking some measurements and placing a little This allows us to identify them later, see how they've grown and You're a pigeon now, is that okay for you? The rings have a bright colour so they can be easily And just like that, It's been fascinating to open up a box that you have set up a year ago and see there's a whole and our box installations to be super successful. Usually you would expect around 10, maybe 20% of them to be inhabited. But out of the 25 nesting 13 on our hosting little owl families. - [Host] One reason why these is that we invested in a mechanism that makes them safe from the owls biggest - So here's how this mechanism works. You see this little flap here and owl can easily push it open to enter into this little entry hall here. And there's a second to get into the owl living room. And the two are connected in the way that they can never be open at once. That means a long predator like a marten simply can't get through, pretty clever. It's incredible to see how these literally can bring back a species, and that's why we're doubling down and bring community funding to set up another 50 (upbeat music) But it's not all smooth and our monitoring alerted - These five babies clearly suffering from that damages their beaks. This situation is quite serious, and without intervention, The five were brought in immediately and received a first treatment Today is their second and last treatment, and they're already It's incredible that can heal this little fella. Ideally, we humans would of these wild creatures. But in a reintroduction the survival of every to the overall population recovery. The team is well underway to a self-sustaining population so that eventually human intervention won't be needed anymore. But Peter and Gunther had - That's why we're so excited that with the amazing community growth that we have seen since last year, we can come back and bring to this project when it's most needed. While a year ago, we were with $6,000 euros. This year we are coming back with $40,000. That is the power of So on top of the nesting boxes, we're financing a full year of work in the breeding area for the field work across this beautiful 600 With this funding, the and the circle of life with new little owl breeding pairs that are already taken care And with each new the ecosystem recovers a bit more. All thanks to 30 years of dedication by local wildlife heroes and with a little help from Now, if you're wondering our planet, consider joining with a link in the description Because everything that is funded by people just like you. The bigger this community grows, the bigger these missions will get. (upbeat music)