In April 1979, at the General Dynamics docks in officials was launched a submarine that became submarine built in America, this 170-meter 18 thousand tons, is equipped with an arsenal USS Ohio is the first of 18 flagships that whose performance is considered outstanding The mid-1960s became the era when the space race peak. We all know about the mighty rockets of that However, this race was happening also in the military one. The emergence shifted the balance of power and the US the Soviet missiles could hit US forces In search of a solution to this problem, the The program, named STRAT-X, was supposed to be nuclear triad: forces operating The result of this study was 9 promising key military systems, 1 was aviation and 4 were naval. a group of large nuclear submarines, which would the range of which would allow their use The implementation of this concept consisted of Work on the first part was launched in the to have a combat load and range greater than that's what happened - the Trident was born, which Parallel work was carried out on the submarine. that the optimal carrier should have about 20 into account, it turned out that a boat with a The work on the direct development began and, and their arsenal grew. The main executor, Electric Boat shipyard especially for this and named after the State of Ohio. The same name Initially, it was planned that the Navy would process of building the first of them, ambitions Navy expanded the order to 15 units, with plans In total, between 1981 and 1997, General Dynamics When creating the boats, the engineers were the combination of large sizes, power, low noise, into account the acceptable operating economy - Ohio is a third generation boat. In terms of 170-meter ship with a displacement of about 18,750 The Soviet Typhoon submarines, were monsters with a displacement of 48,000 tons. Ohio definitely got a record arsenal. Each boat Even the giant Typhoon only had 20. Of course, themselves, much lighter and more compact in The first group of 8 boats, was equipped with the basic Trident I C4 missiles. of 7400 km or 4600 mi and could be equipped Starting with the 9-th boat, USS Tennessee, the Trident II D5 missiles, the range of which combat load could already include up to 8 475-kt The missiles can be launched at 20-second and in waves of up to 6 points. In theory, all with one salvo, although in practice such It is not so easy technically, besides firing Of course, a submarine is a submarine and it The classic weapons here are 4 The boat has a hybrid hull. The main, pressure are located, is made of high-strength steel and length of the ship. On the top of the pressure like a roof, covers the missile silos. Due to the upper part, the boat is considered a single-hull the emerging hydrodynamic noise. A high and narrow to the bow, in front of the compartment with four fins in a cross at the stern, the horizontal The maximum diving depth of the The submarine is nuclear. The power plant reactor. It provides energy to two 35,000 hp propeller. The boat has one propeller, 8-meters features of the propeller are still considered Plus, there are several additional to back up and maintain the systems. This gives A special innovation of the new generation is the system and the introduction of several operating this parameter is considered outstanding even it was completely incredible. Up to the point the equipment available back then often simply of low noise, only the French Triomphant The boat itself is equipped with a and hydroacoustic equipment. The basis of the antenna with almost a thousand hydrophones. passive and active elements on board, plus Later, as part of the modernization, AN/BQQ-10, with a common station and an open The boats can create hydrographic maps and The main patrol regions are the Pacific and two naval bases were specially adapted. On the Base Kitsap is located. Boats that are based sometimes they can make intermediate stops at On the coast of the Atlantic, in the southeast Kings Bay. Each base has all the equipment infrastructure for training and serving the crews Moreover, 2 crews are assigned to the boat at According to various estimates, Ohio usually forming maps and observing the situation in the calm, such ships do not try to get involved in One such thing happened in 2009, when a small A lifeboat with 5 people ended up far from all seas, when hope was already lost, it was noticed Just like that, on a lifeboat, accidentally in the middle of the ocean - pretty lucky. problem for the US nuclear submarine fleet - these the late 1980s to build 24 boats were discarded, offensive weaponry were supposed to limit the At the same time, the Navy's own analysis of they really only needed 4. And this is first 8 boats were equipped with the Under the threat of disposal, it was 4 boats out of 8 have been upgraded and received boats awaited more large-scale work. They have operations that do not involve nuclear apocalypse. each - as a result, the ship received 154 Tomahawk adapted for equipment and means of carrying out count as ballistic missile carriers anymore, At the same time, efficiency and relatively element of the US nuclear triad. At the 2,100 warheads, or roughly 60% of the For 2021, the entire group of 18 submarines is is more than 40 years old. And all of them are up to six months. It is assumed that Ohio class and a replacement is already being prepared. by new strategic ballistic missile submarines The history of American flagships continues, Comment below what you think of these the channel so as not to miss new videos. There's