- Hi. Many musicians out there because maybe they've come that they'd like to work with, but they're not entirely to fit the melody. So, here's a melody, it in a style that you would because the principles are just the same. So, here's my little four bar melody. It's not a melody that's going but it will serve a purpose Now, down here, I've got some chords. We're in the key of C Major, every note of the scale, C, D, E, F, G, A, B, and then you make up chords. So you do that by using and the fifth note. In other words, C is the first note. So, D would be number two, so E is number three, F would be number four, G is number five. So you use one, three, five. So above C that gives you, C, E, and G. Above D it gives you, D, F, A. Above E it gives you E, G, B. Above F it gives you F, A, C. Above G it gives you G, B, D. Above A it gives you A, C, E. And above B it gives you B, D, F. And we sometimes refer to C, D minor, E minor, F, G, A minor, B diminished. Don't worry too much about and the diminished for the time being, but those are the chords it gives us. Or some people prefer to do it this way. They use these Roman Numerals to call this chord I, chord II, chord III, chord IV, chord V, chord VI, and chord VII. And basically, if you want you look at the first note, and you think, &quot;Well the first note is &quot;has got E in it?&quot; Well, chord I has got E in it, isn't it? So that would fit. Chord VI, has got an E in it. And, chord III, has got an E in it. So basically if I take this E, I could put chord I with it. That sounds okay because I could put chord III with it. That sounds okay because I could take chord VI. Sounds okay, that's got an E in it. Or to put that another way a chord of C, a chord of E minor, or a chord of A minor. But if I tried to take chord VII, or B dim and put that with it, doesn't sound very good because So you'll find for any note in the melody there will always be three So then you could kind of and think, &quot;Well which So for example, because it's you might decide you're or a chord of C, because that would fit Now, if I put that down I'm then going to move on to C. Now C is also in the so I could stick with that chord of C or I could move to a different So that I is one possibility, but chord IV, a chord Chord VI has got a C in it, or a chord of A minor. So I could go from C to A minor, or I could go from C to F major, or I could go from C and stay on C. If you want it to be a little bit gentle, you don't want the chords you could just stick where you are. So I'll do that for now. Let's go on to the next one. Here we've got a D. Sometimes you can just Sometimes you can put some notes together. So when I look at this second bar, I think well D, B, G spells So there's a G chord or a chord V. So maybe I could put a G chord over the whole of that bar because it just happens Well that's great, isn't it? So let's have a G there, or a chord V. You don't have to do that. You could have one chord for and one for the G, but it might just make it sound to be changing the chords that spell out a chord. Well you might as well Going on to the next note, well this isn't going to fit a chord of G so we probably need to change. We're also discovering that we've got one chord in the first bar, one chord in the second bar, so maybe that's kind of We'll have to see. A could fit with chord IV, the F chord. It could be something to do with chord II, the D minor chord. Or it could be something the A minor chord. So if it's the F chord If it's chord VI or A minor, it's that. If it's chord II or D minor, it's that. So it could be any of those things. Well, let's for the sake of argument go with a D minor chord, Then, I may decide I want because it fits the D, but the trouble is that So I'm going to have to change aren't I? I may even think, &quot;Well is there a chord &quot;that's got D and B in it?&quot; And actually you can see D there, can't you? It also fits in a chord VII. Though I have to say that usually chord VII doesn't sound quite so good, because it is a diminished chord. It sounds a little bit odd. So you might want to avoid So how about we go for a And then because this is the melody in history, well it's a C, and it fits with a C chord, or a chord I, so that would kind of bring us home. So if we run with those chords, it's going to sound like this. So we're going to have a C chord, and a G chord, and a D minor chord, and a G chord, and a C chord. Or I, V, II, V, I. And by the time I've got going in the accompaniment it could be quite good. So there we are. How to have a melody that you might have composed or improvised. How to find chords that fit with it. So you could have hours of fun with that. Good luck!