familiar faces here today Okay, cool. Nice. Welcome. So yeah, I guess I have this remix meetup. Um, it's a monthly meetup that we I don't always remember Who's like pretty familiar with running PX create remix app, etc. Pretty much everyone You've been coming for like six months. React router. React router, which is, it's a react router how long used to be. Oh my goodness, Shane. Nah, I'm kidding. Well, that's, I, that's, that's alright, cause it's a little bit of a lighter speaker, um, I wanted to try and make That's cool with everyone, so, uh, raise And you're willing to like engage Okay. So if you are, if you are not that person, I'm not going to force you. I would recommend maybe just Um, and kind of let's maybe like work if you're comfortable with that. If not, I'll still have my screen up so And I can be your, your Um, and yeah, that'd be good. So remix world who, uh, Up to date with what's going on in Remix. Oh, Mark does. Yeah, we know that. So what, what is the most I thought you were going Come on, man. No, I'm just kidding. Yes. Beat support. Yes. So, yeah, so we released a beat support. So, oh man, it switched to dark mode. I didn't expect that. And I am not, I am such a light mode user. This is very weird to me. I can't do it. All right. Uh, toggle. Sorry, y'all. Yeah, it's gonna suffer, I guess. All right, there you go. That looks great. Uh, so yeah, Vite, who raised, with, what, what is Vite? Okay, cool. Actually, less people than, um, I not heard of it or know what it is. So, Vite, um, is essentially So, it's most similar, and, and people I'm not like the best about this stuff. It's, basically, it is much, Webpack was for a long time. So it is, it is a pluggable system, go to the website that's created by um, which is another, you know, uh, Uh, so yeah, next generation front way to put it as tooling generally, Uh, get ready for, catchphrase, etc. Um, notably, yeah, some things that are Um, it's one, one good thing, it's Um, and it is, again, very pluggable add transformations as you need to, a really good example, or Markdown. You maybe have that code that you or JSX or HTML or whatever. There are plugins that do that have created in the community. So it's like, Oh, I'm building just want to transform some MDX. Like you can just literally import or And it, it just works for the most So very cool. Um, and then recently, yeah, Remix We decided we are tired of We're trying to get away from that, and winner in the compiler space right now for So you can use VEET, uh, just with uh, you can use it with like react and Uh, that's totally possible. Indeed. It is I would say it's very much the react app was which was like the de to create like a single page app like a It's a very like cross cutting cross nice which is why remix is super excited not like It's not a remix thing like the best thing for the web as a whole, being the best for remix at all they're So it's pretty cool. Um, so what I thought we would do with it because it seems like even familiar with, with feet as a whole. But most everyone's pretty familiar with So, um, So we have kind of two options. So this is a choose your own adventure So we can start with like a minimal So show of hands, do you just This is totally arbitrary. It really doesn't matter. Okay, who wants to do the One person. Okay, we're going to do it in the minimal. So I would recommend going to Remix. run slash blog. And then it should be the I would just go to that. And we're going to copy mpx create and then it's remix run slash remix Also, I know it looks like byte, So that's why it's pronounced beat. Is it? Okay. Evan is not French, he is... He's, well, he lives Okay. Yeah. He has a Chinese only alt, so Yeah. Uh, that's really interesting. Cool. I don't know, that's a very, uh, I mean, Remix, everything is, really make fun of anyone. So, alright. So, we run npx create remix at latest. And then yeah, you can If you're not on the Wi Fi, I'm spilling any secrets. But it's just Eastside Tech Hub. Uh, there's no password. So, going back. Um, create a new Git repository Uh, Brandon never came back on Zoom. He's not with us. Art is downloading the dependencies. Should've used it. P. M. P. M. All right. Um, so go to myremixapp. Head up. So, first thing you'll Is that good? So there's this, um, at the very there is a beat config file. And pretty much right off the bat, It gave us unstable beat plugin. This will, will change it as unstable we think it's like, we're pretty we're pretty confident this is pretty But we don't know 100 percent like And so we just we want to make sure before they before we fully ship it. And then we also like if we do want about the API, we just want that, um, But if we do change anything, it's going Um, so it's like, it's probably the released in my experience, but I also not a year and a half month and a half. That was completely wrong. Alright, cool. So you're going to import unstable And then this define config that's how you define the config. And then this ts config paths, um, is doing is we have like a path alias So we're just like, we're mapping. If you do like tilde slash, that's just So it's just a path alias. Um, so that's just like a convention Okay, cool. So, what can we do in here? We have four scripts. TypeScript check, that's pretty boring, So we have a dev and we have a build. So, first thing you always You'll actually see this thing working. So once that runs, it says beep, 4. 5. 0, ready in, uh, like six seconds. Um, it's a little bit of a cold, uh, Hey, locals at HTTP localhost 5173. So that's just leads port. I believe you can pass in. Um, I think it's just like port. I don't know if you open It's not port. It's a server. Is it? Okay, so you do server and Okay, that makes sense. So I could do 3, 000 here if I wanted. I can stop that. Oh, blew up. Did I do something wrong? Just, just syntax stuff. When I ran the mpx script with that v dash dash port equals 4, 000. What? So it quite, yeah, so that was just what Okay, cool. Kind of neat. Nice. Okay, cool. So, you know, I've changed the You, you have a lot of control when I did control space. Um, it opens up, like We're in a TSS file, so that's nice. We can just see kind of all the Um, but I don't wanna do any of that. That seems complicated. I'm gonna keep it easy. Um, That defines what Calvert does for Yes, exactly. It just returns the same thing. You pass it to it. Exactly. Yeah, that makes sense. Thanks. Um, okay, cool. So now we have... On our left hand side, we have this. Welcome to Remix. It's just our normal thing. So, Remix, you know, we can go to change things, and when we save it, It's very fast, which we like. Obviously, this is a pretty, like, simple, too complicated when we're training, Much faster than what, um, what the that I've started doing but it kind is, what is it it's um, it's like open, there's format on save format. This one is crazier. Oh yeah, you just like turn on autosave, and it just gets, it's very, very scary. You just like change stuff and just like immediately updating. It's a really, really good way how good are your tools, you know? Um, so I like that. So yeah, you can do lots of stuff. Uh, another thing that we can do, um, that is we can like create, um, a CSS file. So we'll just call it, Um, it can be called whatever, but CSS, would have a background color of, uh, red. Um, and then we'll go back to the route and then I think. Import it. See, see, this is, it's crazy. I'm not even saving it. It's just like, hey, everything's Um, so I believe I No problem. So you kind of gave it away there. Um, so that's a, that's So this is like, this is non-standard in just a regular JSS file that you without, like a bundler that. That doesn't make sense. You can't import and index that CSS file, pretty adopted and other things too. Um, this definitely existed like Webpack you import that, uh, whatever file that going to bundle that CSS, that asset, So Beat is like very much an asset maybe a way to think about it too. Or maybe asset bundler. I don't know. All these terms get confusing. So Remix is kind of out of that game. It's saying like you, you know, Uh, Remix, we're, we're like a, So that's pretty cool. You can just like have, you know, size, you know, like very big, um, It's very cool. This is so ugly. Uh, very, very ugly. Let's do, actually, like, text. That's not good. See, I'm too used to tone at this point. What is it? Color. So, easy peasy. So that's some of the power of beat. Uh, but like I said, we can do... That doesn't even look right up there. I like, did I stop? Oh. That was weird. It was, I swear, it Slight delay. All right. Um, so like I said, we can, um, So I think it's like, Oh, good. You know, so now that you have the power routes, which files and which routes You know, if Remix has plans or will of smart route bundling with, you know, using the side effect imports now? Yeah, I mean, that's exactly how how Beat works, which is great. Yeah, so like, that was a convention is basically, let me um, let me little easier to talk about I think. So, oh shoot, is it in here? That might be wrong. And our search is not what I want conversation for another day. Um, so inside of links, uh, or sorry, export a, a links function and that So how Remix worked. Um, is yeah, basically it's com slash some styles that that CSS is you're on, whatever route this may be, So whenever you are on that route, Whenever you leave, those V just goes a step further and says, route thing, and you don't even have This could be a component, and Um, and so anytime this component is CSS with it, which is like, so nice. Um, so yeah, like, I, I thought this was like, this is where we get into this webby, this is more how the web works, um, but, you know, again, the community a good job with this, people trust it, so how you want to do it, you can do it. Yes, or no, or like global. Say it one more time. Is it scoped, scoped, CSS or no? So this is, uh, it's a little bit of both. So it technically, the CSS I wrote targeting an H1, but I'm like 99 percent So let's, let's take an example. So we're going to create a new it, uh, uh, we'll call it Austin. I don't TSX. And so here we're going to export. Should I actually call it something? Um, and so here we'll also return um, we're going to need some The error is saying just that I'm Yeah, exactly. Transform failed. I don't know, we'll get to that And And so we'll say back set up of this And then here, we're going to say a link. Um, and this one will be, uh, So say go to Austin. I will say, okay, this is It's not like 100 percent perfect. Our CSS imports do sometimes So, I did have to give it a hard refresh. So, that's for Pedro to Alright, so now if we go to Austin. Oh, shoot, it did work. That's not what I expected. No, I didn't want that. Maybe it's just the HMR. It could be. Alright, let's try, um, I totally expected it to, to not be CSS should not have been loading that. Maybe I just don't Let me see. Okay. NPM runs. Oh my gosh. Sorry. Sam is in the way, so I NPM runs start. Okay. So now we're starting it. Okay. Cool. So if we go to Austin. Okay. So there it works. So yes, again, kind of a bug. It's actually, this is great. I'm getting paid for lots of work to do. Um, so yeah, so there it's We can open up the, um, the specifically what is it doing. So that's. Let's maybe try that again. So let's in localhost, index, Yeah, that's not there and if we refresh So somehow it, yeah, I know. Okay, cool. I like it. Does it work nice with SVGs? Does it work nice with SVGs? Can you clarify specifically what JSX. Yes, we'll do that and then But we're definitely we can do that. So, um, I have to look up what it is, is like how you find these things. So there's a V plug in SVGR. I'm trying to remember Is it? Okay. A good kind of gut check with this 720, 000 downloads per week, that All right, so what we're going to do dependencies, what they're doing, we're That's what I do most of my life. Um, and then so it's going to And, um, close that one. And then, so we're just going So these are all just plugins. You just kind of keep I was told the order does not And I'm very afraid of that 1 percent Right now, there it goes. I just installing. Cool. So it said, uh, yeah, to do all that. And then I should just be able to import. And so they do have this convention and you have to add a question mark, react. I think there's a way you can get just go with it and not worry But that makes sense, honestly, like so I kind of prefer to point out Okay, so we need a, um, an SVG. So here's a fun little trick. If you right click on the Remix So if you ever need Remix Um, Remix is not the only Dispersal do this like they Yeah, this, which is So you can pop a logo. So, if you ever go to open little feature because it's super All right, cool. Let's switch. What logo do you all want? I want the color one. I want the blue one. I want to see that in here. Looks like I already had it downloaded. So clearly I've been doing a lot of this. Okay, so what we're going to do Open up, Alright, uh, doesn't really I'm going to put it in app, but Um, oh shoot, I did that wrong. We'll make a directory called assets And then I'm going to call it, Just logo, just for ease. It can be called whatever. Uh, okay. So we have our logo. It's in assets. That's cool. We can see it. It's right there. I have a little previewer So, let's go back here and So, it says, we're just be importing it, like that. Let me get back to here, and get back again, so we can actually see this. Okay, so we say we're going to remix, We haven't imported it yet though, defined, which makes sense to me. Then we'll import logo svg. And then I said we needed I didn't have to give it a There's your giant, giant logo. I can maybe give it some, uh, parameters. Uh, that's pretty good. That's huge. What's going on with Oh, I need to also set the height. Oh, I think actually I should have just let the width figure itself out. That's doesn't make sense, but that SVG in line that you can go and do stroke colors and things with CSS that Exactly. Right. Yes, you got it. So, and we can even point out which I can try it again. Eugene? Yes. Eugene? Is that how you said it? Cool. Are you sure? You seem like you're No, I'm not. But it doesn't matter. You'll have to correct me later. But Eugene, you said? Okay. So, uh, as you pointed out, is So yes, we have our SVG Um, and then all these Gs. So you can see, like, we have the Is that kind of what you were wanting? Yes. Okay, cool. So that works. Now, my high horse. Don't do this. Please don't do this. Um, so this is fine if you manipulate that SVG for some reason. But, uh, for some reason, for a long think because of create react app the de facto of how to import SVGs. Um, it's pretty expensive to, It's fine for just, like, one case. But if you're downloading all of this doing, that's, that's actually just want the image and you're not doing not manipulating SVG in any way, even there's some stuff you can do with it You're right. You should probably though just the be treated just as images, um, if So that's my high horse, but you Is there, um, some upsides in doing targeting to increase your web page I would use this way So my kind of first rendering will be Good question. I think I get what you're saying. Yeah, it's already in HTML. And I don't need to download the image. Theoretically. Yeah, that is a good point. Um, you could try and use. So what is it? It's a preload, but this will help me. There are ways you can, um, tell things. It's still written in the HTML, so And this is like the, uh, synchronous. Because it's in the HTML immediately, that is true. I will say though, there, what there are ways to, I don't think What am I looking for? Image loading. That's it. So there are ways to, to also to preload stuff very fast. So you still should be able to get around which is like an image tag, but totally if you're just talking about your SVG Just like one import. I'm just saying like. Just don't go crazy. Like every single, you know, SVG like if you're in this way, it will and it's eventually also affect your Yeah. Yeah. It's a balance for sure. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So I think you got it. So yeah, that was a good, Like I, uh, I wasn't even sure if So Yep, so that's a good one. Another one, yeah, that I'm excited about. Also, this is, this will complain There we go. This just wants this, um, this cs file. And then that should fix it. Okay, cool. So that's all that was, Nothing, nothing, um, remix y Okay, so, yeah, let's add an MDX page. Um, does everyone know what MDX is? So, uh, let me just say, like, one would be very nondescriptive. So, hello, this is my blog. Cool. And we're going to go to blog slash, you need access to my document. Sure, fine. Okay, so it says 404 not found. I think that exists. What? Oh man. Ugh. Remix. Alright, fine. Did you agree that 24 page of easier way than what it was? Yeah, so the reason, um, the reason want to encourage you to style it. I do agree that it would be nice So, I'm of both minds, because it's like, use the default, but I agree with you. I think they need to Not weird, but not that easy than on Next. js, I think. Right. Like, you need to add some other things, but in Next. js you just... I think you should have 404 page and Instead of, uh, dedicated 404. tsx? Yeah, but sometimes my, I I'm not sure if it works like that. So if my folder doesn't find does it go to the splat in this way? It will not, correct? The splat will work only if I'm mistaken. In with URL, like, completely. Correct? It's been a second, but I'm pretty In root? Uh, I'm doing this first, and So, um, so your default, what you, is you're going to want to set tsx, and that's To me, So you're right that there is this convention super early on. They were like, oh, it'll I can never open this thing. If we just have like a 404. tsx page, right? Yeah. The issue is like, what if you actually be called like 404 for some reason? Like there's a pizza place. That's like, that's a zip code. And so it's like, they may So that's like, it's just totally agree. Yeah. So this is, and honestly, I think about this of like, should we So that you're encouraged to see that. Cause I agree that it's like, if of hard, but if you do know it, then But we also need to rub Cause it's not like full Sure. You can add like layer. Yeah. So you just do, I would, this is how I boiler platey, but like we, we try not exactly how you're going to set it up. This is, this is, uh, this is reactor making this so complicated. So yeah, I would just like, I is what I want my styles to be. So I'm going to wrap No, I lost it. And then, so I'm actually going So this is kind of And then here, I would just say the same In all honesty, I would not recommend your um, for your error boundary because a pretty minimal page so that it's But trade offs, I get it. Okay, so we have a header and we say this is the header. So actually the whole head and I'm with you. So we had the header, um, and then but we can't log one doesn't exist yet. Sorry. So go back to Austin. So we'd see there's our So this is, this is how I do it. You have the full power of So I would just say create a wrapper with And then in your error set a default error boundary. And then you can, you can export So you can go as nested as you want. You can have specific error So that's why we like this convention this gives you a lot of control. And then your root is your root part. But yeah, totally. I agree. It is. It's like, there's a way you could that could feel really, like, nice, always that question of, like, what this feel a little easier seeing this feel like, eh, it could be easier? Genuinely asking, you can disagree. For those who are just super, let's say... Refreshments or whatever you call it. So they can go with either way and you wanna want to have more control. I agree. Yeah. I think, I think what I would prefer in a, um, in like the template itself. 'cause like, I don't, I don't love two ways to do the exact same thing. I wouldn't want like a dot 4 And like this, cause then it's like, conflict between the two, because I feel Like, okay, just export Like that's, that's very reactive. It's very composable. And I agree that if you don't know that um, and that it feels more complicated simple, but I get what you're saying. Appreciate that. Uh, operate conditionally Yeah. I didn't make it. I, I, I kind of assumed that was possible. Yeah. I just, I, it, there we go. Let's try this. Uh, what this thing is import. Okay, so, this thing, oh, come on, really? That's what it is, it's just an unknown. So what is this? Is a route error response? It's a remix error. Oh, fascinating. Okay, cool, so let's... Yeah, let's just copy and paste Status, I assume, would be the code. Yeah, so, import this. Okay, so this is saying, we don't does something to where it checks it. And so if we have it, then we and that error response is... Yeah, it has a status. It has, uh, we need to pull it off. Is there a way to... So now, we can see, hold on one Yeah, so HTTP error, it's going to include like your message and status. So here, yeah, so that h1 is saying, Here's the status text itself. And then here's like the You can do whatever you want here. You have the full power again. But yeah, that's how like you would test. And if something else blew up, you're it's like, something else blew up, Uh, what were, what were you asking? I need the data from server It's no way to go with loader, correct? So I probably need to... Okay, so you want a loader. And then normally you would just Let's make this async just Okay, so, nope. I promised guys I know JavaScript. All right. Um, okay, so, typically, so if you're, want to send data down, basically. So if I have an error, um, then I'm error, or I'll say message, sorry. Um, this blew up. Okay, so, wait, so I'm going to say... Oh, does it really? Yeah, you're right. No, that makes sense. Uh, I'll get back to that then. You can move through the object. Yes, exactly. So now, actually, what is going on? It's not on It's hitting the 404 error first, which Okay. So if we, if we actually know what the what the, what the error itself is. So as you were pointing out, so to think how you would do this. You said you can just But how does it, is that It might like away. Yeah, go for it. It works with objects. If you throw just an object, uh, since an async function, when you catch Yeah, who's catching it is the question. Uh, the renex so say there Because it's not an instance of error. Yeah, so I don't even know. Yeah, so in that case it's like like what the hell is that thing? It's typically you do want Yeah, it'll just, give you JSON. In that case, you're right. So, so, you totally can just More or less serializable. And that will end up, that will you threw, you didn't return. And so at that point though, know what you actually threw. Because Remix has no idea at that point. So you're totally right, you can, you can I would still recommend though, like, You should be returning, you an error or even returning. So you can set the, even like returning I'm trying to say is, yeah, more fields. I think it's this. Oh wait, sorry, status. Uh, 500, right? Will this work? I don't see that working. Uh, that's probably because So it's like a correct 500? Yeah, it would show up in your loader. Wait, does the status need Is that because I'm trying I think it's this thing. Yeah, that's awesome. Okay, cool. So what's going on here now? Yeah, you're right. So you can totally throw just a This is just a serializing it status code or whatever you want. And then it's upset because It's trying to And it's been error boundaries and remix. So thank you all for, But yeah, you, you have a ton of control. So yeah, it says, you know, here may trigger an error UI, throwing a 400 or a 500 though, in this case, I mean, So yeah. And your loader is, is pretty much in your loader is like where you want So you have, you know, you two kinds of errors, right? You have known errors and unknown errors. That's not, that's not They have a much more eloquent way of exceptions and your known exceptions. So you have like, Hey, you gave Or like, you're not authenticated In that case, you would want to have branches and returns information A lot of times you could, you could do also just like do it as directly loader Um, and then you have the unknown errors, boundary probably should be shining, is something blew up, but I do still want Trying to think if I could trigger Anyway, they've got a nice one that comes Houston, we have a problem, and they have and they say, like, something's wrong. Some of that we actually Some of that we actually do at the edge. And it never even makes And then, as it makes its way ways to be able to show those. Yeah, that's a good point. Man, we are far from beat. Um, that was a great question. Thank you so much. I'm gonna need to do a whole and we can do a whole talk. I think that'd be awesome. Or someone else can do it, actually. I would love that, because... Is that like here we go? Okay, what were we trying to do? Heck yeah. Alright, so, uh, you made a git request. Oh, I should probably like clean is going to get crazy later on. We'll just delete this, we Okay, you made a git request to blog1, route, like, so it's just like, I don't, uh, you know, I'm kind of confused, so, that one, um, let's go to, so if you go you can see our beat unstable, um, docs not say beat unstable, and it'll probably I was about to say it'll I don't know if that's entirely true. We'll see. Uh, that's for other people Okay, so if you scroll down, um, I'm just going to look it up. They have a good example Again, this is just a plugin, so this This is just Remix saying So that's why I went there, because I just So we're going to install I wanted to mention about this dependency interface is a superset of, of rollups. Um, so any rollup plugin That's awesome. Yeah, thank you. No, that's, that's a super, uh, that's One, because it like, because of that. And then two, because like, rollup is now the target. For like plug in systems, so Remix se, we're more like, hey, we're tied more or less, um, so, we like that, Alright, MDX, so we're just gonna do stuff in here, but I think that actually so now it says the page isn't working, so probably do type everything up, y'all. Yeah, I had too many ports running. There we go. So yeah, this is the header. Let's go back. Wait, no, that actually is totally wrong. Um, oh no, I closed everything. Hold on, I gotta restart Chrome. There we go. Alright, cool. So where was I? blog. 1. tsa or mdx? Oh, I just didn't put anything in here. Is that what you were saying, Matt? There we go. Sorry about that. Cool. Yeah, the style isn't there, Like this is what this is doing uh, it's doing transformations. It's turning that into, you know, So we could target that style But MDX is especially useful because You can render like logo. Ooh, I wonder if this will work. I haven't tried this one. Import a logo from I really hope this is good. Thanks y'all. Oh, totally blew up. Um, but that's just because It was your fault. It was. Every single time this has been my fault. Except for this time. Alright, what happened? Uh, I can't open it. Uh, I think, I think it's just these. Um, the tilde doesn't work for it. Oh, yeah. So, that's just a, again, that's an Oh, I know how to fix that one, actually. I've done this before. Okay, so that should fix that one, Alright, I might actually have What?! So sad. I swear I did that right. I don't know. Uh, he's joining us a little late. Uh, I don't know. I don't know why that didn't work, but... It's not Remix's fault. That's all I know. Anyway, that's kind of nice that, That's really mad at me. Did I do something wrong? You might have, you might have Gosh. Yeah. What's this thing? Can't find mode on Tilda. It's not picking stuff up. Oh yeah, it is. Okay, so it's, it's unstable. I don't want to know. What is it? But now, no, now it's not Oh, so I just broke up to TS You chop off your, your mdx. Oh yeah, because it says W slash star. Why did I just do? Oh my gosh. That's awesome. Yeah, you noticed what I saw, Cool. Is it? It should just be slash star or squiggly. Okay, so now see, let's see. I'm too impatient for these pull starts. Okay, so we're back to that air. Amazing. I don't know. Every mistake is just That's good. Which module did you Oops, sorry. So back in beats, What did, import mdx from at mdx. js slash roles Yes. And then, um, going back to the remakes. run Uh, I mean there's a lot of, this it, but there's, there's all sorts of, Nope, shoot, that's the wrong one. That's the old MDX stuff. Yeah, we could add, uh, we could just like parses front matter. You can do whatever you want with that. Um, yeah, there's all It's at mdx. js. Yeah, this website will pretty cool. Okay, um, For a project that has been in progress From the Remix Compiler to VEET. How, in, how, how involved is that? How involved would that process be? That's a good question. Let's get back to it. What was your question? Is it working with Cloudflare Workers? That's a really good question. So, Cloudflare Workers is, The long answer is, like, We feel pretty So we have been talking to sorry, Cloudflare employees. They're very, very eager for this to work. They, I do not know all We put out a video a couple of days ago, a in 40 ish, I had to look this up today. Someone talks about this more in depth, a lot of technical details behind it. So it's not works for like next GS That I believe is the solution we want they don't even like that solution. So there's like, they are very much Cause I do want this to work a lot better. Um, So we will get there. That is like, I don't, I don't think supported because remix is always We want you to be able to use whatever it's a JS kind of one, um, Deno Node, um, their fault, uh, it's not our fault, I'm forgetting, yeah, um, so, yes, we there today, unfortunately, um, Aren't add some sort of first party or, yeah, work, is it worker DI can't remember. They have like all these different things. They have, like Wrangler two was a big a way that they, I think emulated or, Uh, they're like environment essentially. But then I think they wanted to get And, but people are all still that's kind of a problem. They're like, Hey, look But everyone's like, no, And so I think that that is my Uh, so it's kind of on them to fix it they are like, they've been super, been a lot of conversations that I'm it's, it's just a little bit outside actively being worked on all the time. Um, same with Netlify. They just reached out to us today. Like they're very eager to get. Uh, one, they aren't on v2 yet, I unfortunately, but it is, like, almost, then they really want, like, support bead, and have, like, a bead plugin, expect it to, and everything, so. So far, everyone like this has honestly work with us, uh, this movie should unwilling, it just is another step, for Remix on Beat, then it works for, It's just, it's all good, all around. Um, okay, so, I had an idea. You don't have to listen if you don't website called, Oop, that's not it. Uh, Remix, austin. com. You go to github, github, and then you go to the repositories, to the actual, this guy. Alright, um, so you go here, It's not the most complicated remix So, my thought was, we could, we could could all just kind of break out, and and like, see if you could convert this. See if you could get this on And let's see. And, and, because this is good for me, and be like, this is a horrible And they're going to be like, wow, off because we've just done so much. So how does that sound? Does that sound like a fun challenge? Cool. So if you, if you don't feel look at these people have been asking That's what I, that's what Um, so the, most of the changes were probably why the blog is breaking, I'm oh, some of the, some of the, so a lot module format, um, the server dependencies I lifted this route files That's just a argument in the take this hash directory thing. So I don't know where that goes in. You don't need it. It's handled by v. Nice. Um, we have the TSS config pass in because we needed it to make it work. Okay. Um, and then all the V test stuff can the defined config from the V test, Cool. Um, I added a post, post CSS config Um, was there something else? A package? Jason, I converted to module. I'm not sure that we had to do that. I tried to do that to fix the think we have a custom server, so But if we did, I think you're right. That, that might be, would have helped. Um, so I think that is most of it. Then I just put the feet Always. That's awesome. I assume the blog is I think you need MDX fun. Learn the plugin array Yeah, I mean, , we, we don't know what's That thing is kind of weird. Looks like we need an MDX Right? Yeah. That's probably some of it because Yeah. Let's see. NO'S installed, roll up and not remark. Well, I guess plugin I didn't touch this. Ah, you're right. But there was MDX bundler in the Yeah, but that should get automatically It's you, it's, it's, uh, even know if we could do so. I'm happy, uh, this is great. Thanks, Mark. Round of applause for Mark.