- This week on the season we cover the disappearance of Jimmy Hoffa, a prominent figure in the - Big name. - Yeah, everyone knows Jimmy. I don't think a lot of people know what happened to Jimmy, - Well, I don't think many - Nobody knows what happened He disappeared, - Yeah. - That's the whole show. - That's why we're in the office, right? - Well, why don't we learn about it? - Should we? - Yeah. James Riddle Hoffa served as the International Brotherhood from 1958 to 1971. The Teamsters were originally known as a labor union for drivers. At age 18, Hoffa succeeded better pay by organizing a strike. He began organizing for and gradually rose through the ranks. Hoffa's influence as in the US was significant. At the time, 90% of US transportation was controlled by the Teamsters, who were controlled by Hoffa. In 1941, Hoffa and the in a turf battle with rivals in Detroit. It's here, according to author that Hoffa got involved with the Mob. Hoffa hired the Mob to get rid and although this worked, after this, the Mafia essentially owned Hoffa. - [Shane] This is not a good outlook, or probably a good stance to have. The Mob seems very handy. You just give 'em some money. - [Ryan] No, okay, see, this to fall into the trap of the Mob. - [Shane] I know, I know. That's why I have a hard stance, like I'm never gonna - Oh, wow, how noble of you. - So if you're in the Mob out there-- - You're such a hero. - Because it seems so convenient. - No it doesn't! - It does. - No one's thinking in their normal life, like, ah, if only had the Mob - Right. Someone's giving ya trouble? - What Herculean task have you encountered that you're like, man, I really wish I could - I mean, I have my old couch still. I could call the Mob to take my old couch. - That would be the dumbest that I could ever think of. - I'll tell 'em it's dirty. Ah, just took this couch-- - And now you're dirty. - It's gotta go. - Whatever. What are they gonna me do? - Anything. That's how the Mob works! - But then I do one favor - No, that's not how it works. - Yeah. - The Mob and Hoffa formed The Mob was able to out of the Teamsters' pension fund, funneling these funds into the financing of many Las Vegas casinos. Hoffa and the Teamsters, in turn, got a favorable return on these loans. Despite Hoffa's connections to the Mob, he was beloved by union workers, as he was known for increasing benefits and wages for workers. Hoffa had a stable in the 1940s and 1950s, but this began to splinter Hoffa started serving a 13 in 1967 for crimes including bribery, jury tampering, and mail fraud. Then, in 1971, President with the promise that Hoffa would abstain from any union involvement until 1980. This pardon would oddly set into motion events that would lead Four years later, in early July, federal investigators found that the Teamsters' largest pension fund had been robbed of hundreds and only two weeks later, Hoffa vanished. The timing of these two more than a coincidence, with the discovery of hundreds going missing from the and Hoffa barred from the It stands to reason that to investigators that with the Teamsters' pension funds. Obviously, the Mafia would As such, let's examine On July 30, 1975, 62 year old Hoffa was seen outside a called the Machus Red Fox. According to notes written Hoffa was asked to meet two at this restaurant. The acquaintances were suspects and Anthony Tony Pro Provenzano, both members of the Mafia. Provenzano was also a Teamster, however, neither Giacalone nor Provenzano showed up to the meeting, that there had been no meeting organized when questioned by the FBI. Giacalone and Provenzano the day of Hoffa's disappearance. Giacalone was at the noticeably chatting up people Investigators suspected trying to solidify an alibi. Provenzano was in New with his brother Salvatore all afternoon, playing So they both-- - Rock solid. Huh? - Almost too rock solid, and that's what investigators noted, because it was like, look at me, I'm over here talking to people. Hey, how's it going? - Look at me. This is where I am. - Yeah, look at me. I'm definitely not murdering - It's 3:16 PM on this date, and I'm here talking to you. - It's me, Tony Pro. Note the time! Note the time. - Let's take a photo - Yeah, here's a big clock. (laughing) After Giacalone and Hoffa calls his wife, from a nearby hardware store pay phone, to tell her what had happened. There were five witnesses that they saw Hoffa in the looking like he was waiting as Hoffa was fairly famous Additional witnesses said that with three men inside picked It stands to reason that was the last time he was seen alive. The following morning, on July 31, 1975, Hoffa's car was found in - [Shane] Obviously, I and murdered or mysteriously It's kinda neat to have people talk about your last known whereabouts, though. - [Ryan] Yeah, yeah. Like there's like, oh, He was playing-- - [Shane] The Dave and Buster's? - Yeah, he was playing Flamin' Finger, and then some men came over, - He got in a Mercury Marquis. - Yeah, he got into a &quot;I still have tickets!&quot; (laughing) - I haven't cashed out yet, bro! I'm gonna buy some disappearing ink. (laughing) - [Ryan] Witness statements a burgundy Mercury Marquis with three men seems to be corroborated by A hair found in the car was therefore, it's plausible, if not likely, that this is the car to the secondary location Witnesses stated that looked to be a man named who was known to be like a surrogate son, and protege to Hoffa. The thing to look at Hoffa into a car, into a dangerous situation unless there were people - [Shane] Yeah. - And this guy was one of 'em. So I think that's the key You've gotta get someone that someone-- - Trusts. - That someone trusts, so if and I saw you in the car, everything's okay. Shane's in the car. - Come on in! I'm just going around the block. Come on in, Ryan. Come on in. - Okay, I'm never getting into - Get the (beep) into the car. - [Ryan] O'Brien always denied and any involvement with However, O'Brien was after Hoffa's disappearance, with some maintaining that had suffered after O'Brien felt that Hoffa should have gotten him better - I mean, I know how those guys operate. They just kinda cross their arms, and didn't happen. - It's a good De Niro face. (dramatic music) (laughing) Hoffa's daughter has &quot;was driving the car my father disappeared &quot;in the vicinity of The and reason that quote, &quot;if &quot;he was there,&quot; end quote. Investigators also noticed O'Brien said he was using like transporting a 40 pound at Teamster headquarters to He said that the salmon had so he needed to get it cleaned. German shepherds also found Hoffa's scent in both the backseat and the trunk. Hoffa's son has said when he asked O'Brien if he was involved in his O'Brien quickly fled the room. - Good poker face. (laughing) Whoo! - I don't like that question. See you later. Searches for Hoffa included both literal searches in the area and searches through but unfortunately, Hoffa's Before we get into the theories, one thing seems to be that Hoffa, in some way, The Hoffex memo, a document by federal investigators suspected that the Mafia, concerned that Hoffa would make it known they had infiltrated the Teamsters, and accessed its pension fund, to pay for its illegal operations, decided to kill him. As for the question of why Hoffa would divulge information one book on the case, I suggests that the Mafia was concerned that Hoffa, who was anxious to get back into union leadership, would be willing to swap to lift his 1980 restriction that Nixon ordered. Hoffa was also apparently vocal about trying to get the and the union's pension fund. Even still, despite knowing likely killed Hoffa, investigators could never Four months into the investigation, Ralph Picardo, an inmate in New Jersey, claimed that he had information obtained while one of Hoffa's killers Picardo's information to form their list of suspects, most of which were one of the men that Hoffa the day he disappeared, however, all of the suspects and didn't testify, which and led to an essential cold case, and with that, let's One theory is that Hoffa was at Rolland McMaster's horse McMaster was an enforcer This theory is supported Dan Moldea, who interviewed before Briguglio was killed. In 2006, the FBI searched for Hoffa at the horse farm, to no avail. However, Moldea believes at the farm, and that in a 55 gallon drum, and sent to a Mafia controlled in a Gateway Transportation truck. The trucking company's president was a Teamster pension fund trustee. - [Shane] This is why the Mafia works, I gotta be honest, because you've got an who are there to assist you, and provide alibis and make things happen in covert ways. - Obviously, they're doing deeds of evil. - For sure. - But you can say that you could admire the commitment to unity. - Yeah. I mean, don't kill people. - Don't kill people. - I think we've said I'd like to say it again. Don't murder. - But you could admire - Yeah, familia. Vin Diesel, The Fast and the Furious. - Yeah. - They're all criminals, - They stole DVD players. They should rot in prison - They didn't steal. They're straight up murking people in the street in those movies. - Were they? - Yeah, they're like causing millions of but Familia. - You could ride with me any day. Pass me a Corona. (Shane mumbling) The second theory is that Tony Provenzano ordered the hit on Hoffa. Federal investigators organized the hit because of conflict between Hoffa and Provenzano that occurred while they were imprisoned Their conflict grew to the point where the two despised each other. According to Hoffa's son, Tony Provenzano, as Hoffa's enemy, was thought Frank Fitzsimmons, who in the Teamsters. In 1974, Hoffa said that Provenzano had threatened to kidnap his loved ones, or pull his guts out if he of the Teamsters again, as their mutual contempt increased. - I'm gonna pull your guts out. (laughing) Was that good? - That's pretty good. - It's probably, it's probably exactly-- - I don't even know when they say-- - I'm gonna pull your guts out. - Yeah, that's-- - Hey, I love it. - It's incredibly vivid. - I'm gonna start using - Yeah, that's a-- - You cut in that coffee line again, I'm gonna pull your guts out. - Jesus Christ. All right, I guess I'll go - Yeah, that's good. - I'm gonna pull your guts out. - Don't talk to Shane in the morning. - Also, that's gru, like You just give 'em a little stab. - He's disemboweling somebody. - Yeah, he's like, (vocalizing) - What the fuck. Small intestine, liver. (Shane making slurping sounds) Oh, he's eating it now, too. - He's eating it up like spaghetti. - He's like one of The All right. Yeah, whatever. The third theory is aka, The Iceman, killed Hoffa. Kuklinski was a hit man and serial killer, who was interviewed for hundreds of hours by author Philip Carlo, while During the interviews, claimed to have been paid He explained that, at the ultimate orders of powerful Mob figure Russell Bufalino, he drove to Detroit to most likely, Tony Provenzano, Gabriel and Salvatore and picked up Hoffa at They then knocked Hoffa out, stabbed him with a hunting and transported the body to that was later crushed Kuklinski said, quote, &quot;He's &quot;in Japan right now,&quot; end quote. Patrick Kane, a police officer to put Kuklinski behind bars, believes that Kuklinski However, others dismiss saying that he was a gross Robert Garrity, crime has called this claim, quote, &quot;the most embarrassing I don't know why I feel for someone to brag that they killed more than they actually did. I feel, it's just being a terrible person. I don't think he was actually the killer. I think he just wants people It seems consistent with his character. - Yeah, yeah, he's a balognster. - But he does want us to believe that he's part of a - Yeah, so he got taken to - Yeah. - Like at the end of Brave Little Toaster. - That's a deep cut. - [Ryan] The fourth theory is aka, The Irishman, killed Hoffa on orders from Russell Bufalino. Sheeran spent some of his last weeks interviewing and possibly confessing with author Charles Brandt. Ironically, Hoffa was the one to be a killer, as Hoffa is to get rid of his rivals and secure his leadership Sheeran claims that after at the restaurant, they where he shot Hoffa in as he walked inside. Sheeran then left, as the body was taken to a funeral home controlled by the Mob, where he was cremated. Sheeran apparently felt very but did so because he would Sheeran said that he purposefully sat in the front passenger seat of the car, to send a secret warning to Hoffa. Hoffa always sat in the so Sheeran hoped that Hoffa would notice there was something Hoffa's son reportedly that his father would've entered the car with Sheeran inside, and that if it had been other suspects. Furthermore, according to the FBI, Sheeran was in the Detroit Sheeran even named a house but attempts to locate Hoffa's According to reporter David Ashenfelter, it's possible Sheeran but there isn't really any It's possible that Sheeran his guilty conscience before dying, especially with his strong Catholic faith. I don't understand why a who is a hit man, would say these things unless he did them. - [Shane] Yeah. - [Ryan] Right? Like it doesn't seem like - [Shane] Especially if - [Ryan] He feels guilty, right? - [Shane] You're not gonna be like, let me spin a funny yarn - [Ryan] Yeah, yeah, exactly. - [Shane] It's an odd thing to fib about. - [Ryan] No, it's weird. There's not a lot of, I don't see a lot of motive behind that. - [Shane] No. - [Ryan] Where this is the possible involvement who Sheeran claims co-ordered the hit. A PBS investigation into Hoffa, and taped conversations revealed that Hoffa's Frank Fitzsimmons worked to pardon Hoffa and get But also, they suggest that in the union ban on Hoffa until 1980. The tapes indicate that Fitzsimmons wanted Hoffa out of prison so he could keep control of the Teamsters that supported Hoffa. However, Fitzsimmons didn't to seize power, hence the restriction. On Nixon's side, Nixon would endear him to workers, because as Attorney General quote, &quot;He's just a tough, beer-drinking, &quot;no good son of a bitch like - I do like that. I'd trust a guy like that. - So basically, this is between the president of the - Yeah. - The president wants of the working class, and the so they could be on the but they don't want him to so they get Nixon to put this ban on him. - The president and the Mob. That sounds a little far fetched, Ryan. - Well, it's on tape. - I know. That's crazy. - Documents at Wayne State University's Reuther Labor Library of the Provenzano mob to Vegas to deliver special counsel to Nixon. The documents go on to show was sent to Nixon for the nearly one million dollars in total. This was around the time and according to a this money could've been used though the mob payments to So the Mafia just purchased the president of the United - Yeah. - Crazy. - [Ryan] The documents suggest that Hoffa could've been suspicious of this. It's theoretically possible to go public with the information that the Mob paid off President Nixon. This would have made Russel Bufalino, one of the most powerful figures in the American mob, very nervous. Additionally, in 1975, Time Magazine published an to the CIA via Mafia and According to journalist Matt Birkbeck, this destroyed Bufalino's and after its publication, Bufalino was determined to silence anyone who would shed more light on his activity. He got wind that Hoffa including Sam Momo were going to meet with which was looking into the and sure enough, Giancana, were all killed in various ways after Bufalino heard about their plans. It seems kinda cut and - [Shane] Do we know how those - [Ryan] I'm sure they were - I think I'm just wrapped to get murdered by the Mob. - Yeah, 'cause, again, there's - No. They probably lure you into a - Yeah. - Oh, we're just gonna go pick and then-- - Yeah. The fifth and final is that Hoffa is still alive. I would imagine this is mainly that Hoffa's body was never found. One bleak version of this theory suggests that not only is Hoffa alive, but he's still in custody of the Mob. Another happier version that Hoffa ran off with a Either way, in 1982, Hoffa - I just wanna know where Did someone a man who looked - Probably a place that to do go-go dancing. - What? - He probably went to a - Yeah. - And then met this go-go dancer, and was like, do you wanna go to South, why are we going into the details of this? - 'Cause you just said, one sentence, you were like, other people - It's an internet theory! - There's nothing else-- - This is a product of the boards. I don't know. - Oh, you've gotta get - [Ryan] As of 2015, but it was considered inactive. Thousands of tips have been the vast majority of Barbara Crancer, Hoffa's daughter, has said that she doubts the considering most of the Investigators tend to - I guess the lesson learned is don't get involved with the Mob. - Well, you've grown. - I've grown. - Because in the beginning - At the start of the story, and have 'em just do all my tasks. - Yeah, move your couch stuff like that. - But now I've learned a thing or two. I don't wanna end up - Yeah. - Being dumped in the - Yeah, you don't wanna see a bunch of just plastic - Oh, that's never good, right? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - You know you're about to be whacked. Before you know it, the last thing you see is the inside of a trunk, people are calling you, 10 years later, two talking about the disappearance of you, and little do they know, maybe you were with the go-go I don't know. Perhaps one day, a new break in the case will shed some light on what happened that one afternoon in Michigan, but for now, the case remains unsolved. (light suspenseful music) (eerie whooshing)