Dr. Cornel West, the moral philosopher president on the People's Party ticket. Dr. West political change in an electoral system saturated parties. He calls for a paradigm shift, a demanding that we redirect the focus of governing corporations, the military machine empire, and His decades-long commitment to the oppressed, empire, his condemnation of the grotesque determination to halt the ongoing ecocide will see If this campaign becomes a movement, and it on the ballot and build grassroots support, the sabotage his candidacy will be formidable. The the media, the corporatists, the billionaire will be as vicious to Dr. West as these forces in What hope third party candidates have of system remains to be seen, but one thing is that overthrows the ruling corporate duopoly, but ultimately the extinction of the human Joining me to discuss his candidacy is Dr. you campaigned for Obama. I think you did over 60 for Bernie Sanders. So you certainly were embedded Well first, let me just start off saying it's brother. These decades have been ones in the joy of having your brotherhood and that made the announcement, set the high standard, note in Louis Armstrong in the West End Blues, want to be clear what the standards are. It's you know, courage is the enabling virtue. All For me, I've always viewed myself as a jazz jazz man in politics, which means I have to be be ossified and petrified in my analysis or in my I've worked with my dear brother Bill Bradley who too. Then I also worked for Ralph Nader and I the 20th century and 21st century. I want to misperceived, and so forth. Then I went back then went back again even with Biden, old Trump. So I've tried to be flexible and fluid poor people and priceless working people of all So I'm thoroughly convinced now that, at this with milquetoast neoliberalism. Neoliberalism will at the roots of fascism and the two-party system, empowerment of poor people -- not just in the the world -- Given the militarism and given the empire in terms of its military might. So this to mount this third-party bid to, on the one hand, to dismantle the empire in the name of poor and within a much larger movement. That movement, of Keeping the focus on those the great Frantz Why can't that be done The Democratic Party has proven now that the progressives, the Bernie Sanders. I have a love for my brother and as a jazz person, have big disagreements. It made it very clear that especially every two years and every four military interest, military-industrial Silicon Valley, Big Tech, they're at the center corporate power, surveillance, ecological with Manchin in the debt ceiling agreement. Oh, make agreement when it comes to the needs of poor Democratic Party. Of course, they've been doing it's very difficult not to be able to see that. Jesus Christ. Ukraine, the Middle It's very clear that there's no commitment be it Palestinians on the West Bank or be it but who are bearing such a brunt, in part, not of American imperialism. So the NATO expansion is by the rationalizers of the war. So we've got suffering of our precious Ukrainian brothers though Putin is in fact a gangster, even though empire who's pushed their back against the wall, at the American empire. If there was missiles the US would blow them to smithereens overnight. Russia is a wounded empire, got its solidarity with the oppression of the Russian against the invasion. See, that's serious moral Russians in any homogenous way, there's always a You've got some Jewish brothers and sisters who their government, but you never view the Jewish always a variety of different voices. So to keep means everything to my own candidacy, my brother. policy. We've seen the neoliberals dismantle the II, all sorts of antilabor laws, the Taft-Harley the 1960s, you had the Powell memo to Samuel probably knew Huntington at Harvard. Talk about what they've done and Yeah, I think that it's very clear that the powers trade union movement that was going to bring power processes, in which profits were to be gained and just for profit. The great CLR James makes 1947. Massive strikes, major challenges to the say, anti-trade union policy tied to Congress and corporate elites, ruling class. Congress already elites, ruling class. Trade union movement many of the precious socialists and precious or thoroughly marginalized, or demeaned, I was thinking of the great Louisa Marino, fighters of the 20th century, was deported from there then the US has a coup there and overthrows The way Claudia Jones was deported, but held on. Harlem who was taken to jail under the Smith wait a minute. I'm not myself a communist, is the libertarian sensibilities here among the that kind of hypocrisy from corporate liberals. to, on the one hand, push the trade union back, The vicious legacy of white supremacy that American capitalist order, Indigenous immigrants tied to cheap labor, enslaved Africans to come to terms with Jim Crow because they broke regime in the name of, we are against racism. we broke the back of legal apartheid in the trade union movement being pushed back, issues you're going to be thoroughly marginalized. the great Paul Robeson, among others, who wanted then are included within the status quo there, then to talk about poverty and class. It's going So the very litmus test of progress, let's say, folks you got? What kind of representation do multiracial and even later multicultural status contempt for working people, militaristic are represented and included in an because it's not as racist as it was before. the same way that when it became unfeasible to was a real freedom fighter, and put in the corrupt species of internal colonialism, isn't it? imagine the impact on my precious Black folk and years of lynching, and years of Jim and American mainstream. See, in lived experience, oh, my God. It looks as if we're really now on liberation and emancipation, and you have The breakthroughs have been made for the Black for the Black professional managerial class. cannot be denied. You can't account for Obama when you have the vision that I am concerned the predicament of what the Bible calls, &quot;the those in the hoods, in the barrios, our poor so many other places still catching hell. The our precious trans being viciously attacked, When you look at the world from the vantage all the multiculturalism in the world is quo. Let us be very clear. When you have your baby it's not a big difference between the Yeah. Let's talk about what Malcolm X called our in there, we were both great friends with Glenn the Black misleadership class, he called it. Kimberley, and Brother Danny, and the others. Yeah. Bruce Dixon. But let's talk about those internal colonies. Abu-Jamal together with the great James Cohn. and racial suppression that it changes its functioning as internal armies of occupation kicking down doors in the middle of the night. in Newark, or Camden, or Oakland, or anywhere overseas. There's that tie with imperialism. both white, Black, of all colors, that have been rendered invisible. The heart of your campaign population, of all colors, that have been cast austerity, and everything else. Somebody I know wrote a text on that, name is the precious folk who have been pushed against celebrated by the Thomas Friedmans and others. Oh, but democracy across the board. Well let's look Tom. Let's look at the evidence. Well, we great William Barber has been making, is that The what? 60% of Americans are living month to month. even as food stamps are cut given the debt What are we talking about in terms of human lack of nourishment, let alone lack of access to even given Obamacare? I know I get that a lot came through and made the breakthrough. Oh, it a deal with the corporate elites in the industry but profit at the center, leaving out so many. Frederick Douglass school of thought. You see, eliminate, abolish poverty. I don't want to chip don't want to chip at struggle for living wages. I at mass incarceration reform. I want to abolish if they're animals. There's ways of dealing with are criminal. I'd be the first to acknowledge We can learn from Finland. We can learn from rehabilitate persons. I want to abolish corporate mentality and imagination the Ruth Gilmores, mean much to me. Because that's what it to the precious humanity of each and every one sexual orientation, or national identity. You see it in New York right now, Ecological catastrophe. The future of the species, The destruction of democracy. If the is a corporate-driven, milquetoast, neoliberal Let us be very clear. It's like a Weimar That's why, as you know, I'm going straight many of those vanilla brothers and sisters. you want it. I know you're scarred. I know you're under this corporate globalization, and the and the greed of the corporate elites. I want you concerned by satisfying your basic social needs. up on the xenophobia that makes you feel good, financially. That's what is required. I'm not of those white brothers and sisters. I don't They just happen to want to come at Black folk, and Muslims at the moment. They can be changed. Well that rage is manipulated That's right. or DeSantis, and others and it's also buttressed of Trump supporters, the famous Hillary Clinton manipulated. On the other hand, by Democratic That's exactly right. Very, very much so. You reintroduce America to the best of itself. That of slavery and Jim and Jane Crow, movements of corporate greed at the top, women control over any group that's been marginalized. The least of coming back to that because I have a deep moral in that regard, you see. But the best of America the Rabbi Joshua Heschels, the Edward Saids, the could talk about Chief Joseph, all of the Of course, as you know, so much of the man. It's the greatest artistic century of recorded time, the 20th century. So jazz and rhythm and blues and the best of hiphop, traumatized people who, with artistic creativity provide a vision of a better world and provide a that people are trying to cut us off from. That affirmed, all of our sense of possibility is I remember Richard Wright writing about the Absolutely. Absolutely. and Israel. As you know, I spent seven years in the empire was always the external expression went into 1st Battalion, 1st Marines, went sand the N-word, there was ... It is the The Wretched of the Earth, but that quality, that of empire as it is within the racist. I think very outspoken about Palestinian rights, but talk One, being with the Monroe Doctrine. After the 13 colonies to a continental social experiment, of indigenous peoples and others. The Mexican immoral war. He was one of the leaders of the war, Mexico is now part of the USA. So we have to keep truth. Condition of truth is to allow suffering resisting ... They're not just victims. They're hemisphere is our backyard. No one else can ever the 1890s, Guam, Puerto Rico, and Cuba. Now, imperial [inaudible 00:26:12] outside of American empire within the continent beginning track of that story, keep track of that narrative. policy, it's going to be so deeply shaped Europeans who arrived. They're just now going white supremacy with them. Look what's going hatred of precious gays and lesbians and Right. fanning and fueling the hatred of gay brothers I'm saying all these fellow Christians in their be. Your text on American Christian fascists US foreign policy, imperial like any empire. I about that. If people think, &quot;Well no, no. I want to introduce America to the best of greatest comic writer we ever had. William James, vice president of the Anti-Imperialist League Filipinos, he's part of the best that we've had. against the war in Vietnam, he's part of the best. America. I believe that as a human being, as a citizen in this American experiment given its And you, like I, support the boycott, divestment, of Israel. That's a very contentious point and just want you to explain why. Of course you were apartheid state of South Africa. I just want to say that South Africa's apartheid And the United States. But thank God we had Jewish voices in Israel critical of the apartheid regime. Again, much deeper than just the elites I think it's fairly clear and this is one of the the plight of the Palestinians, that's a taboo ever come to truth, come to terms with the truth the point is this. If there were a Palestinian brothers and sisters, then divestment, sanction, make you a moral hero. Now, I would be part of that movement too. brothers and sisters. It's a moral and spiritual of crimes against humanity when it comes sisters. A giant like Roger Waters, what does lying on him. He's been doing that performance to resist Nazism, to resist any form of domination you can't even begin to compare Israeli occupation that they're no way identical in terms of scope continuum with fascist treatment of people and Brother Roger Waters is talking about and it's I know I'll be viciously attacked. but I just look them in the eye and tell ever be deterred when folk are simply trying to in my work my downplaying of Jewish suffering, I is crucial. 2000 years of being hated with no doubt about that. It should never ever brothers and sisters. I say exactly about [inaudible 00:31:40] in India, about Muslims anywhere that kind of thing is taking place I want to thank the Real News Network, Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.