Translator: Ki Yun Lee Hello, my name is Vanessa, and I am a recovering awkward person. (Laughter) This is me at the peak of (Laughter) Luckily, my years of social awkwardness led me to a fascinating career So, what I didn't realize I would do an experiment that led me right on this stage My lab researchers and I We wanted to know, Why do some TED Talks go viral So we embarked on a huge experiment. We analyzed thousands of hours I wasn't sure if we would find anything, so we were analyzing body language, we even looked at outfit choices, which made today And very quickly, there was a pattern And after we coded we realized there was a pattern. Now, before I tell you what that is, which is, When you see someone, what part of the body You can just call it out. What do you look at first Face, eyes - so most people - shoes. (Laughter) They are very high. So most people But actually, when we first see someone, the first place we look is the hands. And this is left over Because if we were approached the first place we looked was the hands to see if they were We wanted to know if we were safe, Now, this actually still remains and when we can't see someone's hands, something interesting happens. So I just did something You should start to feel The reason for that is you wonder, What is she doing back there? (Laughter) And then, the longer I leave you get more and more distracted And eventually, Can't she just bring her hands off And the moment I bring them back out, it feels so much better. And this because our brain knows we can't see intention. And we found as we compared side by side with we found a pattern with hand gestures. Specifically, on average, the most popular TED talkers in 18 minutes. Yes, we painstakingly counted I have 465 prepared for you today. (Laughter) And the least popular TED talkers Almost half. What's happening here? So when TED speakers take the stage, they are showing you first You'll notice when I walked I was saying, &quot;Friend, (Laughter) And the other thing that TED speakers do - see if this looks familiar. So they come onto the red dot, &quot;Today, I want to talk to you (Laughter) &quot;I am going to break it down that are going to change your life.&quot; Right? (Applause) So the most viral TED talkers seemed to sit in the same way because what they are doing is &quot;I know my content so well that I can speak to you I can speak to you with my words, but I can also explain And this way, they underline For example, if I were to say, &quot;Today, I have a really big idea.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;It's huge.&quot; (Laughter) You laugh, and you are like, &quot;Vanessa, and that is because your brain gives So today I have a really, really big idea, and I am going to explain it My big idea is that we are contagious. Specifically, as humans, we are constantly sending We also do this emotionally To explain this, I have a rather disgusting So, in this study, from people who ran on a treadmill. Then they collected sweat pads from skydivers Two very different kinds of sweat. Here is the disgusting part. Then they had poor (Laughter) I know - they had unsuspecting (sniffing) smell these sweat pads Here's where it gets interesting. Even though the participants the ones that smelled had their fear response In other words, they caught the fear. This means that Our fear is contagious. And this begs the big question: If our emotions are contagious, how do we make sure that we are So, I believe that we can be The first one is non-verbally. Now, to test this idea, I did a very simple experiment What I did is I stood in the street, and I looked up at nothing. And I wanted to see if people would catch So you can see in this video, I stand in the streets looking at nothing, and slowly one by one ... (Laughter) I infect people walking by. (Laughter) And slowly ... (Laughter) we begin to gather a crowd. (Laughter) (Applause) This poor woman, you know - and we are standing there, And we are standing, and I am going, Who's going to break first? And after about 40 seconds, we are looking, &quot;Is he going to jump?&quot; (Laughter) And this experience taught me and then we create rationales Now, this is actually a good thing. As humans, this keeps us safe. Dr. Paul Ekman has studied something It's a universal facial expression, and he's discovered Across genders and races, we all make the same expression This is the fear microexpression. So, fear is a really important emotion because we want to catch it to warn us if something And this facial expression So imagine for a second Your eyelids and your eyebrows so you can take in as much &quot;Is there another snake? Then your mouth - &quot;huh&quot; - opens so you can take in oxygen in case We make this face before Now, what's interesting about it is you should be starting That's because when we If we saw this face in the subway, we would be like, Because it keeps us safe. So I want you to try it with me. Open your eyes as wide as possible. Raise your eyebrows up. Very good. Now, take in a short breath. (Gasp) Perfect. Do you feel anxious? What's interesting is they cause our emotions. So not only do our emotions but our face also causes our emotions. It's called the facial So when we see someone with this face, and then we are ready to fight, Luckily, this also works So one of the faces behind me and one of them is fake. (Laughter) So the real happiness microexpression into these upper crow's feet muscles, And this is really important because, you know, (Laughter) and they say they are happy for you, It looks like this - (Laughter) So try the fake expression for me first. Just try this fake smile, You can even go, &quot;Uh, uh.&quot; It doesn't feel so good, right? It feels inauthentic. Now, go all the way up into your eyes. So smile all the way up Ah, that one should feel What is interesting is it causes our own happiness. And we also catch it when we see it. Researchers of the University of Finland They had participants look at photos of people with the real happiness They found that pictures of the real happiness smile, those emotions caught - they caught the positive emotions, and they themselves But when they looked at the face they caught nothing. In other words, if we show up to events interact with people we become less memorable. This doesn't just happen in person, So I worked with corporate clients who are They said &quot;Vanessa, I get being happy in person, So we decided to do an experiment. We had participants in our lab the first impression on the phone. We wanted to know if people could hear So we had people record with happiness, sadness, anger We wanted to see So I wanna play you and see if you can guess Are you ready? Alright. Same person. Here is a). (Sound recording) Hello. Here is b). (Sound recording) Hello. How many people How many think b) is the happy hello? Very good. We can hear this difference. We can hear this microexpression. Now, I thought this was interesting, So we devised a second part where we had participants in our lab and rate that person on likeability. We wanted to see if the happiness microexpressions or the power posing expression did better. Here's what happened. After we asked people, &quot;I do like this person a lot,&quot; &quot;I like this person a little,&quot; we found that the across all trials for both men and women, they became more likeable. Whereas the same persons who baited were less likeable. This is the happy side effect Not only do you infect someone else you also become more likeable. We talked about non verbal, and I have to talk about How do we infect confidence verbally? So in this study we took 500 Speed-Networkers, and we asked each to go through a eight of these rounds. So we assigned each participant a conversation starter Then we set up cameras and we analyzed each We were looking leans, nods, laughs, We were also looking In a really good conversation, In a really awkward bad conversation, there are lots of silences, And we also asked each of the participants We wanted to know which ones produced What we found was that centered on this little chemical So dopamine is the neurotransmitter or when we get a reward. And I noticed that most of our chit-chat that we have at parties It sounds like this. &quot;So, what do you do?&quot; &quot;Where are you from?&quot; &quot;Live around here? Huh?&quot; &quot;Well, I am going to go get It was great talking to you.&quot; Those conversations happened It was almost as if My brain was on autopilot. What we found was is that the worst ranked the ones that got the lowest ratings, the ones that produced the lowest volume, the ones that got the most leans away, those were the ones that we use the most. &quot;What do you do?&quot; &quot;Where are you from?&quot; from a physiological perspective, No pleasure. So what we tried was to find that could spark or create Can you verbally trigger dopamine? We found that the brain If you ask somebody a question, What I mean by this &quot;Been busy lately?&quot; their brain immediately looks They think about negative things the stress, the busyness, Whereas if you ask someone, their brain immediately begins to look It starts to think about all the excitement And that does two things. One, it creates pleasure for them. You are literally asking them to borrow excitement and bring it to the situation And the other thing that it does Dr. John Medina found that dopamine, when it's triggered makes a mental post-it note. In other words, when you ask someone else the happy side effect So here's my big challenge for today. Instead of using the typical &quot;What do you do?&quot; &quot;How are you?&quot; and &quot;Where are you from?&quot; let's banish those and let's try ones that ask the brain Try &quot;Working on anything &quot;Have any vacations coming up?&quot; &quot;Anything good happen today?&quot; I think this is the greatest gift We are asking them to flip into optimism. We are triggering dopamine and excitement The last way that we So, this study is one of my favorites. In this experiment, they asked &quot;Don't Stop Believing&quot; into an accuracy software. Now, this a very nerve-racking experiment. They are rated on vocal tone, words, and they are given no preparation. But they did three different trials First, they had them and sing into an accuracy software. The second group got into the room &quot;I'm nervous.&quot; And the last group had to walk &quot;I'm excited.&quot; They found with this simple reframe the nervous group got 53% accuracy, the control group got 69%, but the &quot;I'm excited&quot; group Why? Anxiety and excitement The only difference is mindset. So my challenge for you today is to think about When you want harness incitement ask dopamine-worthy conversation starters; use more hand gestures; make authentic smiles; and never pick up the phone in a bad mood. (Laughter) And the last thing I want to do I want to make you really infectious. So what we are going to do is on the count of three, I want you to yell out &quot;I'm excited.&quot; Are you ready? One, two, three! &quot;I'm excited.&quot; You rocked it. (Applause)