When we imagine the solar system, we tend of rings indicating the orbital motion of Given that we've learned this since we were all the planets are on the same orbital plane. Not only that, but they all orbit the Sun But have you considered, why? Is it a massive coincidence? Or did something happen to make it this way, of it elsewhere? As you can probably guess, it was not a massive planets orbiting the Sun along a plane, regular All the gas giants have regular moons that all in the same direction too. Saturn's rings orbit Saturn along the same clockwork fashion. So, we can see there are plenty of examples, Let's go back billions of years ago to before Deep in the heart of a HII nebula, or a stellar each particle resisting the other's gravitational Until one day, an outside push of energy, and dust inside the nebula, disrupting the collide and clump together. Soon, these clumps would attach to other clumps, particle becoming attached. Within a few thousand years, impacts from causing the object in the centre to heat up. More material from the nebula cloud was sucked forming what is known as a protostar, or a fusion in its core yet. At first the infalling material around the directions, causing a very chaotic environment Collisions between the particles would have so, their angular momentum would have been However, these infalling particles would not nebula cloud has a total angular momentum. So what ends up happening is that while particles most of their momentum would have been cancelled until all you are left with is the direction The best visualisation I can give you to help this. This is a great video from Dan Burns, who The ball in the middle, with its large mass, which is just like what gravity does in three-dimensional Dan throws balls in both directions around they collide with another ball going to opposite and what you are left with are just the balls the same direction. Now, friction from the lycra wouldn't happen to orbit unlike the balls that slow down eventually Also, this is kind of a 2D representation so you'll need to imagine these particles Instead of just the two directions these particles be approaching from all directions, colliding predominant direction remains, creating a As material falls into the protostar, the to begin to rotate in the same direction the As less matter falls in towards the protostar it, material begins to clump again. If enough material clumps into one, you may or even multi-star system. Otherwise, these clumps will eventually coalesce Around these planets, a similar disk to a planet to rotate in the same direction as forming moons. This clumping of material can be observed disk of its own, Saturn. Cassini, during its mission, was able to spot as material clumps together from various gravitational Some of these moonlets fell apart soon after, system. But some lasted until the end of Cassini's form very tiny moons one day, like some of paths in the rings themselves. Now, the orbital plane of the solar system variations of a few degrees, but it definitely It's almost beautiful how in nature, you form something rather calm and orderly. As material in the solar system like asteroids by impacting them, less and less collisions We can already see a vast reduction in the by measuring the age of craters on exposed From these clues, we can see that all the and planetesimals during this chaotic beginning, as more material got in order, until what This is a type of natural phenomena which through self-organisation. Other self-organising emergent structures instance the development of hurricanes. Emergent structures are basically where randomness orderly structures. We see self-organising take place in space solar systems, and even in galaxies. As a side note, we also see it in star and Big Bang. Given all this evidence, we have to assume and we have just about been able to observe similar planes too. So, there we have it! Why planets are all on the same orbital plane. Thanks for watching! Want to help pick the next Astrum Answers? Check the links in the description to become Did you enjoy the video? Then please subscribe and share the video, channel. All the best! And see you next time.