The Nintendo Entertainment System is widely home video game market, and was a defining in the 1980's. In 1991, the Super Nintendo was released, Genesis for control of the 16-bit generation. A pair of Ill-fated systems launched in 1993 3D, but it was the 1995 release of both the it into the mainstream, and even with triple-A Country 2 yet to come, it was obvious that as Nintendo's flagship product. On this episode of Classic Gaming Quarterly, by partnering with Silicon Graphics to develop And while many in the older generation of in the mid to late 1990's the N64 made Nintendo gamers. &lt;Theme music playing&gt; The history of 3D gaming stretches all the arcade games like Battlezone, as well as home By the late 80's, 3D graphics had matured Winning Run and Atari's Hard Drivin' were a rough approximation of the real world. However polygon-based 3D graphics required the time to fake it with techniques like raster In the 16-bit era, the Super Nintendo's games like Pilotwings possible, but Nintendo's the development of the Super FX chip, a graphical 3D graphics. The chip was most-notably used in 1993's Star by UK-based &quot;Argonaut Games&quot;, who also developed The Super FX chip opened a Pandora's box, moving forward. An enhanced version of the chip, known as which was completed in 1995 but never released. By this time, both the Saturn and Playstation to avoid comparisons between Star Fox 2 and They also wanted to create a stronger association the home console market. Silicon Graphics created workstation computers in the early days primarily had applications The company was founded in Silicon Valley students in 1982, and by the early 1990's, special effects, SGI workstations were used were even featured on-screen in 1993's Jurassic Sensing the potential of using Silicon Graphics Tim and Chris Stamper, founders of Rare, leveraged workstation. At around the same time that Star Fox was were beginning development of one of the most and would use a new graphical technique creating Kong Country, which in the waning days of in the coffin of the aging Sega Genesis. Silicon Graphics specialized in producing hardware with a limited target audience. But in the early 90's they turned their they thought, was their golden ticket. In 1993 they developed a game hardware prototype MIPS R4300i CPU. "See how, as it passes the lorry, the billboard If your point-of-view was in the lorry, that SGI founder Jim Clark went first to Tom Kalinske to convince a skeptical Sega of Japan President Clark then went to Nintendo and got a much who agreed to license the technology on a On August 23rd 1993 Nintendo and SGI jointly Reality&quot;, announcing that it would have a and in the home the following year. In March of 1994, the Stamper brothers, of games using SGI hardware, officially joined for an arcade-based iteration of Nintendo's fighter Killer Instinct. Arcade powerhouse Williams would distribute as well as producing their own game for the Although these games were intended to show be brought home with little to no compromise, to what would become the Nintendo 64. Rare and Williams were the first two members a supposedly hand-picked group of mostly lesser-known big announcement pushed many of the big names Although the company had hinted that their of 1994, Nintendo controversially announced of choice. Cartridge media was faster, but it was also the storage capacity. While publicly stating that this decision at the time, in fact it may have had more with Nintendo's Peter Main admitting that This decision also allowed Nintendo to maintain had always been a defining characteristic Bellwether third-party developers like Capcom, been major sources of quality third-party have a vastly reduced presence on Nintendo's In mid-1994, Nintendo released the first image likely a reference to pre-video gaming Gunpei Ultra Hand and Ultra Machine. While this Ultra 64 was simply a prototype it ended up being the final cosmetic form On January 5, 1995, the Ultra 64's finalized is centered around the 64-bit NEC VR4300 CPU with a 32-bit system bus. The 64 has a stock 4 MB of RAMBus unified of 1998's Expansion Pak. The system uses the same multi-output audio/video and its successor, the GameCube, but unlike to composite and s-video, with RGB output The true heart of the 64's hardware is the chips in one. The Reality Signal Processor handles all 3D system audio, while the Reality Display Processor mapping, anti-aliasing, perspective-corrected of which combine to allow the hardware to on either the Saturn or Playstation, without Lastly, whereas both the Saturn and Playstation Nintendo 64 had 4 controller ports built-in, game console since 1982's Atari 5200. Because of this, and thanks to the 64's powerful the system prominently featured 4-player play, Smash Bros, and the Mario Party series. The Japanese release of the Ultra 64 was scheduled And with the industry leader set to release launch of their own 32-bit systems, both traditional to grab as much marketshare as possible before The Ultra 64 made its worldwide debut in final trade show, also known as Nintendo Space World. The name of the system had changed, becoming One rumor was that the &quot;Ultra&quot; moniker was they had created a shell company during the own limits on third-party publishing. According to Nintendo themselves, however, desire to create consistent branding across It was also announced at this show that the to April 21st of the following year. Although a number of games were shown at Shoshinkai, become Ocarina of Time, just 2 games were Kirby Bowl 64 was in development by Kirby evolve into Kirby Air Ride, a game initially finally appeared on the GameCube in 2003. The other game available for play was Shigeru at the time claimed was just the game's Although the demo was advertised as being to show attendees it felt like they were playing of the game would undergo many changes before It was also at Shoshinkai that the public controller for the first time. The radical design features a unique 3-handled D-pad and an innovative analogue thumbstick. The total number of action buttons on the the two shoulder buttons, a trigger button Lastly, the controller includes a peripheral for saving games, a rumble pak for force feedback, and from Game Boy and Game Boy Color games. The controller was designed by Nintendo's Nintendo hardware engineer Genyo Takeda. As head of R&amp;D3, Takeda previously led the system that made it's debut in 1987 with The noteworthy games, including the first several franchise. Having been delayed yet again, the Nintendo The system sold for 25,000 yen, and available title based on the Japanese board game Shogi, and Super Mario 64 which predictably sold Nintendo initially shipped 500,000 units to out in just one week. Throughout 1995 and early 1996, excitement and the latest scuttlebutt was front page The Nintendo 64 made its official American Entertainment Expo, on May 15, 1996. The launch date was announced; September 30, With the June launch of the N64 in Japan, of industry insiders, increasing domestic anticipation for the system, with many gamers games until everyone's cards were on the table. In August, with the system yet to even be to $199, bringing the system in-line with They also moved up the launch date up one that the 30th was a school night, and sent "Welcome to N64..." Nintendo 64 systems were in-stores, under the launch date, but when ubiquitous mall and began selling systems immediately, other choice but to green-light the early launch Breaking with tradition, the system did not only a single grey controller and a set of Additional controllers in a variety of colors, available as a separate purchase for about The Nintendo 64 was released to both great In its first month on the market, the Nintendo November, Time magazine named the 64 as it's stating that Nintendo had stuffed a $10,000 as the first game machine to offer fully-immersive Although it would later turn into a two horse North America, in 1996 it looked like the were about to heat up. And the same gamers who were being told to launch of the Saturn and Playstation were With Nintendo stating that they wanted to "The key isn't the number of the games, ...only two games were available on launch Pilotwings 64 was the follow-up to 1991's Nintendo. The game was co-developed by Nintendo and "Project Reality Dream Team", and who Adventure Racing. Pilotwings 64 is a great game in its own right, while showing off the power of Nintendo's Unfortunately, Pilotwings 64 was in the unenviable most hotly anticipated video games of all The first true 3D platform game was a little-known released in 1990 on the Atari ST home computer, by Data East for the IBM PC. The game uses simple, flat-shaded polygons geometric shape up and across a series of While rudimentary to the extreme, it was head-and-shoulders at the time. Five years later, shortly after the console's Playstation, and although the game features camera issues, it was an early indication genre into 3D space on more powerful hardware. Naughty Dog's Crash Bandicoot beat the Nintendo and while the game kicked off one of the Playstation's by their nature lacked the open-world exploration moving forward. In 1991, during the development of Star Fox, of a Super Mario game set in a fully 3D world, a reality, that development of a 3D Super As was the case with all previous entries 64 was led by Miyamoto and Takashi Tezuka, as both an animator and assistant director. Koizumi joined Nintendo directly out of college, and dialogue for both The Legend of Zelda: Awakening. Initially intending to become a film director, into Nintendo's games, sometimes to the both Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask. The 3D model of Mario was created, likely Graphics called N-World, most-likely on a Rather than trying to take advantage of the to give the graphics a more realistic look, artistic style, with Mario donning a primary-colored vision to create the game as an interactive The game begins with Mario outside the castle kidnapped, and this open area provides both game's new control scheme, which gives the Once you're ready, you can enter the castle, the game's levels. Only one level will be unlocked at the outset, your choosing after the collection of a requisite The collection of these stars is the ultimate available in each of the game's main stages. In the Super Nintendo launch episode, I said game in platformer's clothing, and this The game brought with it a major change to and Nintendo was seemingly taking a risk by their marquee franchise. Aside from the obvious change to 3D, the game an open, almost sandbox-style world that encourages While the completion of challenges leading quite a bit of time wandering around and interacting Mario 64 offers a much deeper and more immersive the series. Unlike the small handful of 3D platform games a revolutionary camera system that allows gameplay. Arguably a hallmark of the franchise, each atmosphere and is uniquely themed. The game's graphics, while colorful, are to prior entires in the franchise, and I would up much better than most 3D games of its generation. Veteran Nintendo composer Koji Kondo also Nintendo 64, and used them to great effect While many of Super Mario 64's tracks are melodies, gone are the chiptunes of the 8 of jazz and orchestral styles. The voice of Mario in Super Mario 64 is portrayed got his start working for Nintendo at trade his voice and movements were coordinated with interactive experience called Mario in Real-Time. Martinet would go on to voice all of the characters and his first in-game performance as Mario for the PC, but it was his work in Super Mario minds of gamers. In fact, it was Marinet's idea to have Mario left him idling for too long. Great as it may be Super Mario 64 is, understandably game. While the new analog thumbstick gave players himself admitted that players accustomed to curve. And as innovative as it was the camera system game. Super Mario 64 also lacks a 2-player mode, the game. But in much the same way that the original platform games, the influence of Super Mario clearly seen in other titles of both it's can be at least partially credited with the a whole. It's simply impossible to over-state the the game industry, and on an entire generation In much the same way that my childhood was 80's pop culture, Super Mario 64 looms large 90's, and has gone on to become many people's For all of the games released for the Nintendo Mario 64 is, for most people, the game most It was also the highest-selling game on not moving just under 12 million units. It also arguably set the standard by which be judged, and was in Miyamoto's storied Much like Super Mario World on the Super Nintendo, received a sequel. It would be 6 years before the next installment Sunshine appearing on the Gamecube, and 11 Mario Galaxy, would be released on the Nintendo If you'd like to play Super Mario 64 but and upgraded for the Nintendo DS in 2004, game are available on the Wii-U Virtual Console. That's going to do it for this episode of I need to give a huge thanks to CGQ viewer Nintendo 64 controller all the way from Riyadh, For his trouble, Sami has a CGQ shirt coming show by purchasing a shirt, you can do so the video description. If this is your first time visiting to the launch videos. We're going to switch things up a little my favorite YouTubers, Banjo Guy Ollie, with Man 2. As always, thanks for watching and I'll