Hey, it's Sam Oh and welcome you to our This course is made up of 16 lessons tactics, and strategies to create your There's no fluff, no bs, and no sales So let's get started with the first lesson, where how it works. So affiliate marketing is when you And when someone makes a purchase with a commission. Now, in order for the affiliate company to attribute a unique link that looks something like When a visitor clicks that link from your stored on their device. And an affiliate cookie does two main things. First, it helps the merchant attribute And second, cookies usually hold an expiration purchase the product after clicking your link. Let's run through an example, Let's say a visitor comes to your post some of your affiliate links. This leads them to a product on Amazon. But wait... they have to go and pick So they do that, have dinner, and then go They find the product again and then purchase Because they clicked on your affiliate link, And because Amazon has a 24-hour cookie a percentage for both the garden hose you weren't promoting it. Now that we've covered the basics of what talk about what you'll need to get started up in the next lesson. In this lesson, we're going to talk about with affiliate marketing. The first is a property or platform. A platform is simply a place where So that might be your own Now, creating either of these is pretty things like how to make an affiliate the actual marketing of an affiliate site. The second thing you'll need is Relevant traffic means that you're attracting in a topic and ideally want And one of the most important parts content, which will house information So that might be reviews of products, best We'll talk about how you can come up As for getting consistent traffic, much of that Three of the most popular channels are Now, social traffic is typically inconsistent to surface new content. But many affiliate pages can actually So if you don't have a significant following as a reliable primary source Now, ads can be great because you But you have to pay for every single So unless you're a part of a very high-paying with ads and conversion rate optimization, yourself underwater fast. Now, search traffic is free, And the way you get search traffic is search engine optimization, or SEO. It's the primary traffic source I recommend affiliate websites rely on. We'll go much deeper into the tactical and getting relevant and consistent traffic in whether the reward will be worth the effort. So in the next lesson we're going to talk marketing and how much you can actually make. In this lesson, I'll give you a high-level overview Now, as we discussed in the beginning of this you're able to generate unique affiliate links. And when someone clicks on one of your links you're paid a commission. So very generally speaking, the more relevant affiliate links. And the more clicks you get, the more conversions, And as long as your revenue exceeds Now, you might be wondering how much The simple answer to that For example, Pat Flynn used to share his in affiliate commissions in December 2017. Ryan Robinson also shares his income reports. And in October, 2019, he reported Both of these gentlemen have done and I'm sure it's taken a lot of hard But the reality is that your checks might first starting out. Now, if you want to make a sustainable income affiliate site as a business. It will be a grind and there will But that's totally fine because when you seeing it as a way to &quot;hopefully&quot; make setting yourself up for success. So with the fundamentals in the books, let's a high level overview of what it looks like In this lesson, I'm going to give you affiliate website. And this lesson will give you a good idea you'll learn throughout this course. But first, let's recap some key principles which are going to play into your strategy. So, at a high level, your affiliate site is going And the types of content you'll create For example, how-to articles and And within the content, you'll add your Now, when someone clicks on one of these be compensated by the affiliate Now, not only will your content convert visitors to your website, too. And the marketing method we'll use to get optimization because the traffic Best of all, SEO traffic will help you generate Now, there are actually quite a few steps traffic and revenue. But to give you a high-level overview, four macro steps. Finding a niche; planning your website; So let's go through these phases at When you're starting an affiliate site, it's beneficial to start with For example, it would probably be better a generic one on all types of recipes. And that's because broader topics tend it'll be tough for you to get traffic to your site. And without traffic, there is no revenue. Now, this is just one small example of the things There are other things to evaluate like commerciality, and more. We'll go through some techniques in module 2 give you the best chance at creating Alright, the next stage is This is where you'll be creating And there are two things in #1. You'll want to plan your content strategy. And this is a super-important step traffic and conversions. Now, the majority of the planning will be keyword research, which is a process to search for products, services, and And the second thing you'll need to And by structure, I'm mostly talking about We'll cover all of this in Now, after you've finished planning This includes making a website and Now, the most time-consuming and Because content is what will help you to rank will use to make buying decisions. We have an entire module dedicated to the content creation process, the types of you templates you can follow for Now, getting traffic through SEO is writing good stuff. A key ingredient to rank high in Google will be backlinks. We'll talk about some basic strategies that help power your pages to rank for their money in your pocket. So now that you have a high-level overview of let's get our hands dirty and move on deep into finding niches, qualifying them, In this module, I'm going to show you that's right for you. But before we get to the techniques to find to look for in a niche. And there are four factors we'll focus on. The first factor is competition. Now, because we established in the first ranking it in search engines like Google, keyword competition. And the main purpose of this is to get an idea that are relevant to an affiliate site. Now, there are a lot of things that go but at this stage, we just want to get So we'll use a simple 3-step process to do this. Step 1: Generate keyword ideas. Step 2: Filter for low-difficulty keywords And step 3: Narrow in on affiliate keywords. To get started, search for a phrase related like Ahrefs' Keywords Explorer, then Now, to filter for low-difficulty keywords, a max value of something low like 10. Finally, you'll want to filter For example, keywords that include the word &quot;best golf clubs&quot;. Or keywords that include the word &quot;review&quot; &quot;stix golf clubs review&quot;. To do that, hit the Include filter, choose words like &quot;best&quot; and &quot;review&quot;. Now, if we hit the Show results button, low-difficulty keywords that cumulatively Again, we've only scratched the surface into more detail later. But if you want to learn more now, then in our free SEO course for beginners on how In fact, I highly recommend watching the full be fully applicable for affiliate sites too. Alright, the second factor is commerciality. Now, not all niches are created equal. Some have insane commercial value which can while others might only result in Ideally, you want to choose a niche that you don't reach a point where you'll A few things you can do include, market research affiliate programs, and look at advertising queries are to different companies. We'll talk more about understanding The third factor to consider Plain and simple, you don't have to be passionate But it doesn't mean you should choose From my experience, choosing a niche in is the best route to go. Because people often quit their affiliate the products they're recommending Losing drive may be The fourth factor to consider is Again, because we're going after search of how much traffic you can get to Fortunately, keyword research tools make this which are the number of monthly SEO tools can also give you search traffic even more helpful than search volumes So by understanding the breadth of getting an estimation of how many people are how much traffic you can get from these can get to your affiliate links which should As a general rule of thumb, you'll want to will likely be lower. But your niche should be tied to a larger niche out, which is going to give you For example, you might start an affiliate And after doing some quick keyword research a cumulative search volume of over 130,000 Not small at all, but not huge. But the great thing about bed frames is that &quot;mattresses,&quot; &quot;pillows,&quot; &quot;sheets,&quot; and There's tons of room for growth. Now, what you're going to find as lot of these factors are connected. For example, niches that are highly commercial low competition will often be It's all about finding a balance from In fact, these four things that we just talked so you can qualify one that's right for you. But before we get to qualifying, we need doing our research. And that's what we'll be talking Now, before we get into the research and the four things you should look for in a niche. And these are: The level of SEO competition, which will we can compete. Commerciality, which will give us hints Personal interest, which is important to actually enjoy what you're doing. And the breadth of the search market, our addressable market - at least for These will help us qualify a niche so we it comes time to choose one. Now, the process to find and qualify your niche selection process. And you'll probably fall into one of two buckets. Bucket #1: You already have a general And bucket #2: you don't have a concrete opportunities if they seem interesting. Let's go through the process for bucket #1 information to check off items on Alright, so assuming you already have the first thing you'll want So for me that would be topics like Now, because these are all things that the &quot;personal interest&quot; qualification factor. Now, for each of these topics, you'll and products related to that niche. For example, if we were to do this for &quot;golf,&quot; &quot;putter,&quot; &quot;irons,&quot; and &quot;wedge.&quot; Now, with our subtopics in hand, the next of preliminary keyword research. And you'll need a keyword So I'm using Ahrefs' Keywords Explorer of subtopics and run the search. Next, I'll go to the Matching terms Now, not all of these keywords will We want to find topics where it's easy to Fortunately, so-called &quot;affiliate keywords&quot; And these are just add-ons to a base keyword. For example, when a query includes the word a product roundup. Queries that contain the word &quot;vs&quot; or &quot;review&quot; comparison article in order to rank in Google. We'll get into the details in a later but we're not quite there yet. But if you can't wait, then you can watch course for beginners which Now, because we know we can find &quot;affiliate the words &quot;best,&quot; &quot;vs,' or 'review,' we can the &quot;include&quot; box in Keywords Explorer. I'll also hit the Any word tab because any of these keywords in addition Hit Apply, hit Show keywords and we now that would be valuable to a golf affiliate site. In fact, the fact that there are nearly two just the US alone tells us that the breadth So we can add a plus to that Now, some of these are going to be quite filter for low-difficulty keywords All you have to do is set the maximum And right away, you'll see that there's that happen for these low-competition So both SEO competition and Now, to get an idea of commercial value, to see how much advertisers are willing But these values are only for one query to get a full picture of how valuable your a lot of these affiliate type keywords. And the way to do that is to find a competing that you'd want to rank for and are because they'll be too tough to compete So to find these competing websites, Just search for something like &quot;best golf&quot; and And this will show us pages that in the title of the pages. Basically, it's going to show us other from dedicated golf affiliate sites. Now, because SEO competition is a big part I recommend setting a Domain Rating something like 20. And again, Domain Rating is a metric that Hit Show results, and now you have a list of likely posting affiliate content on golf products. But we don't need to see pages at this point. We want to know more about how To view the top websites, just And now you can see a list of low-authority they get, and their traffic values. Now, traffic value tells us how much it would if you were to buy it from Google ads. And the reason why it's a decent proxy value is because if advertisers are willing then it's likely valuable. Now, it's important to note that when you're sure that the sites you're analyzing are actually Just scan the domain names and if it sounds the types of content they create. So for this site, it's clear that it's an affiliate around reviews and product round-ups. Now, going back to Content Explorer, monthly search traffic and it has while being a low-authority site. Now, to be clear, it doesn't mean that it tells us that the topics the site ranks So let's add a plus to that qualification factor. Now, it's important to note that you means to understand commercial value. One key component that we didn't talk that these sites are using. And I'll show you how to find affiliate so stay tuned for that. Alright, now let's talk about finding and of the topics you want to cover. There are two effective ways to find niches. The first is to look at the sites that are For example, that golf affiliate site we And if we hover over one of the affiliate a page on the domain amzn.to. This is Amazon's shortened URL. So with that domain in hand, let's go amzn.to, and run the search. Next, head on over to the Backlinks report, link to this website. Now, because SEO competition and breadth of when choosing a niche, we can set some filters has nearly 50 million links. First, I'll choose &quot;One page per domain&quot; because page-level data at this point. And then I'll set the Domain Rating for low-authority websites. Next, I'll set the Domain Traffic filter which will help us understand Finally, I'll click on More filters And I'll set this to English. All looks good, so let's hit Show results. Now it's just a matter of skimming through common sense to infer what For example, this one is a stock checker, one is on knives. The knives one is actually pretty interesting of 6 and gets around 100,000 monthly So this tells us that SEO competition is of the search market, even for So let's add a plus to those factors. Now, to get an understanding of commerciality, To do that, I'll just run a new domain search And as you can see, the site has a monthly impressive for such a low-authority site. Now, as for personal interest, that's up to you. Alright, the second way to find niches is to To do that, just search for &quot;best&quot; in Next, we'll set a DR filter to have And just like we did before, I'll a minimum value of 10,000. We'll set the Language filter to And this is basically showing us pages are low-authority, and are in English. Now, if you want the summarized version, 100 websites in Content Explorer's search Then, just skim through the domain names that you might be interested in exploring. For example, this site looks like it's on traffic, has high traffic value and There's a triple plus for our work boots niche. And for good measure, I'll click through all about work boots. Now, that is a niche I would Now, if you want a bigger list to skim hit the &quot;One page per domain&quot; filter. Finally, hit the &quot;Exclude homepages&quot; filter, look through along with their Now, the qualification methods we especially for the commerciality factor. The affiliate programs that are associated with revenue you can generate because different So in the next lesson, I'm going to show and how you can find niche affiliate So let's kick things off with possibly and that's Amazon Associates. This is Amazon's affiliate program. They have millions of products you can ecommerce brand in the world. So in my opinion, Amazon Associates is Now, their payouts differ based And commissions can range from Now, let's look through the pros and cons We already touched on one and that's of products to choose from. Another pro is that you can monetize Basically, you create a single affiliate link for that visitor, they'll be sent For example, let's say a person from They'll be directed to But if someone from Canada or the UK to the amazon.ca or amazon.co.uk And the final pro is that Amazon's Because it's Amazon and most people, at there's very little friction from And remember, as an affiliate, You only get paid when the merchant gets paid. Now, the main con with Amazon's affiliate program And for many niches, there are other We'll get into finding these The next affiliate program is Target. Target is a big box store in the United States like Amazon. Now, their payout is pretty low at &quot;up to 8%.&quot; But one differentiator from Amazon is while Amazon only has a 24-hour cookie. This means that if someone clicks your Target 7-days, you'll be paid a commission. Whereas with Amazon, the person who within 24 hours. The next affiliate program is Commission Junction. Actually, CJ is an affiliate network. Basically, companies who want to start Commission Junction and they'll handle Now, the pros of CJ is that you get access to They also share stats like the average time periods, as well as the commission rates. Another pro is that unlike Amazon, or Amazon subscriptions. There are companies that offer which handles travel bookings and which offers email marketing services. Now, a downside to CJ is that you have get accepted. Most of these affiliate merchants from they allow to become an affiliate So while it doesn't hurt to create a CJ you may initially get rejected until you reach But there shouldn't be anything to worry this course, you should be able to do that Alright, the next affiliate program is ShareASale. And actually, this is also an affiliate network. Now, I won't bother talking much about the exact same as Commission Junction, For example, Etsy and Weebly both use Alright, so now that we've covered some of the let's talk about how you can find likely high-performers in your niche. And it's quite simple. You just need to look at which affiliate After all, if a lot of your competitors then chances are, it converts And there are two ways to do this: The first is to go to Google and search For example, in the previous lesson, So I might search for &quot;best knives for camping.&quot; Then you can click on a few of the And all you have to do now is hover over Now, this is functional, but A better way is to use a free Just click on the icon, choose the Links tab, to see all external links on that page. And as you can see, this page only seems Now, if we look at the next ranking page, you'll called &quot;Avantlink&quot; which is an affiliate network So to research the programs further, you'd and check out the metrics they Now, the downside to this method is And this page happens to be But a site about knives would probably And you don't buy kitchen So a much better way to get a holistic view who your competitors link to For example, in the last lesson on finding And according to Ahrefs' Site Explorer, it valuable as you can see from Now, to find the affiliate merchants that to the Linked Domains report in Site that this site links to. Just sort the table by the &quot;Links to Target&quot; Now, all you have to do is skim the domain to an affiliate program or network. We already know that all of the Amazon Then you'll see this shortened URL hundreds of times. This is Shareasale's shortened Now, if we click on the number for this row, it leads to a knife company called BladeHQ. And if we look up that site in ShareaSale, earnings per click metric. Scrolling further through the list, also links to avantlink.com. And if we expand these links in Ahrefs, you'll see it sends us to another Then it's just a matter of researching Now, if you rinse and repeat these steps you should be able to find some common the best affiliate program for your site. Your competitors have basically done Now, when you're choosing an affiliate additional things. The first is product and brand reputation. Beginners often choose programs But the reason why a lot of affiliate programs inferior to many of their competitors' products. Remember, after someone clicks your affiliate you to get compensated. Also, people who purchase poorer quality And when refunds from your referred sales By recommending good quality products help your visitors and your bank account. Quick sidenote: this is actually why I don't program as I've never once seen a quality Alright, the second thing to Now, most affiliate programs won't list landing pages. But if you happen to be working with an it doesn't hurt to ask. To illustrate the importance of conversion rate, So according to Amazon's commission table, And most camping knives But that other affiliate program we found Well, let's say you get 100 clicks to order value is $100. If 7% of those clicks convert on Amazon then that means your commissions your commissions from BladeHQ would be $15. So despite the fact that BladeHQ has a bigger to go with in this scenario. Now, this example is a bit oversimplified traffic source, your content, These are all things we're going In fact, the next module is all about which is going to give you a blueprint In this module, we're going to do some Now, before we work on the actual tasks we get on the same page and go over using for our site. And we'll basically be expanding on in lesson 1.4. So as a quick refresher, we want to create an In order to do that, we'll need consistent affiliate products. And the best way to get that traffic is SEO or search engine optimization because Now, the general process to get SEO Step 1 is to do affiliate keyword finding topics suitable for an affiliate site Step 2 is to create content that people want And step 3 is to get backlinks to these Google search and get that consistent allow you to build that consistent revenue. Now, these are the technical and creative But what we haven't really talked about from a birds-eye view. The basic idea is to choose a niche and then to choose a sub-niche For example, you might choose golf as your sub-niche. Then you'd cover absolutely everything to the next sub-niche. Let's dive deeper into an example to help So let's say your niche is fitness equipment That means you're going to cover As an example, you might create equipment &quot;the best dumbbell sets&quot;, and Now, let's zoom into adjustable dumbbells. So let's say you cover five different adjustable Well, to cover this in full, you now Now, let's say you also want to write Well, you can now write about dumbbell and legs. Let's zoom in on dumbbell This would be a listicle that talks about And assuming you cover these bicep exercises, Now, assuming your content is great, what site to be the authority of dumbbells in conversions and search engines, Now, assuming you get through the hundreds content, this is where you'd revisit your sub-niche - let's go with barbells. Then you'd become the authority of And what you're essentially doing here is that's going to be the foundation to not just that has potential to go Now, I need to pump the brakes here becoming this mega authority site, and find some topics that would So throughout the rest of this module, with you to plan for this And in the next lesson, we're going to go keyword research for your niche. Now, keyword research is the first step in income through an affiliate site. And it's basically going to set the foundation So simply put, keyword research is people use when looking for products, Now, because we won't be selling products or site, we ideally want to find topics where But before we get into the techniques to one foundational thing that's And that's search intent. Search intent tells us about And by understanding the intent of a query, easily recommend products or not. For example if someone searches for they're in the market to purchase a product look at different brands, and assess As a result, you actually need And the people who read this article may and make a purchase. Whereas a topic like, &quot;what is protein Based on the keyword alone, we don't a research paper, exploring the world which type of protein powder to buy. Simply put, this topic probably wouldn't because the majority of people So adding product recommendations Now, in general, there are four types of so-called And these are: general comparisons; branded Now, before we get into how you I'm going to choose a niche and So to set some context, I'm choosing And as I taught in the previous lesson, Let's go with car seats. Alright, so let's talk about the four how they fit into an affiliate marketing site, The first type of keywords These are your typical &quot;best For example, &quot;best car seats,&quot; &quot;best It's super easy to recommend products searchers are looking for After all, the keyword, &quot;best&quot; implies On top of that, people searching for these &quot;best to purchase something in the near future. They just don't know which product. So to find these keywords, you'll And I'll be using Ahrefs' Keywords Explorer. Alternatively, you can follow along with this To get started, I'll search for a few broad queries &quot;booster seat,&quot; and &quot;booster seats.&quot; Let's run the search. Next, I'll head on over to the Matching Now, since we're looking for general filter and type in &quot;best.&quot; Apply the filter and you'll see over 18,000 our seeds and the word &quot;best.&quot; Now, since there's probably too many keywords down to just low-competition And to do that, we'll set a maximum keyword And there are some great topics like &quot;best rotating car seat&quot; and &quot;best So from here, you can jot down some keyword account, you can actually add these Now, if you don't have an Ahrefs account, you can for something like &quot;best product name.&quot; You'll have limited data, but it should be good Now, a quick but important sidenote: you Keyword Difficulty scores. Higher competition often indicates commerciality to a topic. For example, the query, &quot;best car seat&quot; the ones we were looking at. And according to Ahrefs' Keywords Explorer, 38,000 monthly organic So these types of keywords are worth adding when your site is a bit more established. Alright, the next type of keywords These are keywords where a searcher between two branded products. For example, that might be These types of keywords usually have lower than general comparison keywords because purchasing decision to a few key products. The easiest way to find these keywords in the same category. So assuming I wanted to find branded car seat of car seat brands and run the search. Next, I'll go to the matching terms report. And again, I'll go to the Include search box, the phrase &quot;car seat&quot; since these companies Apply the filter and we now have a list for branded comparison blog posts. Now, if we do the same thing but instead of car seat models, you'll find even more to add to your list. Now, if you don't have an Ahrefs account, Keyword generator tool. Just type in something like &quot;product Jot down any keywords that are of interest to Alright, the next type of keywords These queries will typically follow And people who search for queries like this They've researched multiple products, a specific model, and now they Now, just like the branded comparison keywords, So if you're going to buy these products and that people are actually searching A simple way to find brands and models worth and look through the different categories So right now, I'm on buybuybaby.com and Now, if I click on the dropdown for Brand, can jot down. So I've already gone ahead and done So I'll paste a bunch of these into And let's head over to Again, we'll hit the Include filter but this and add an asterisk at the end, And just like that we know exactly which models which we now have keyword metrics for. So take some time to add more keywords we'll move on to the last type of which stands for &quot;Trust and Authority.&quot; Now, in order to rank your pages, you and website authority. Meaning, you need backlinks. But since all of the keyword types we've it'll be tougher to get links to these pages. I mean, would you rather link to or one about car seat safety? Probably the latter, right, seeing as it's objective value for your audience. Now, while these keywords may not it'll still serve two important purposes. #1. You'll build trust with your audience And #2. You'll build authority through So to find these keywords, let's search for &quot;car seat,&quot; &quot;car seats,&quot; and &quot;booster seat.&quot; Next, I'll go to the Matching terms report we're looking for informational topics. Let's set a Keyword Difficulty filter to a list of relatively easy-to-rank-for keywords. So I'll add some to my list until Now, if you don't have an Ahrefs account, Just search for a seed keyword Then you can rinse and repeat Alright, so by now, you should have of the four affiliate keyword categories: product reviews, and T&amp;A keywords. But all we have at this point is There's no real order or structure to as it helps to build out that huge web of So in the next lesson, we'll take your list of pieces we'll need to create and start building In this lesson, I'm going to walk you content strategy. More specifically, we'll be taking the list organizing them into logical structures affiliate site. Now, as I mentioned in lesson 3.1., we want covering all of the important And the main benefit here is that all of and essentially work together to build And if we had to define topical authority, it's source on a given topic in the eyes Now, the two parts that make up so-called meaning content, and backlinks. We'll talk about the latter a bit the importance of topical coverage. Let's say you have a site in the golf niche. If you publish a post on the best &quot;Oh yeah...they're the authority&quot; in To become the go to place for information golf balls,&quot; &quot;best putters,&quot; &quot;best golf shoes,&quot; &quot;how golf,&quot; and I could go on for hours. Plus, the content would actually Now, even this example hardly illustrates because there's just so many things you'd This is why focusing on a sub-niche topical authority. And this is the way we chose So you'd cover topics like: &quot;best &quot;pro v1x golf ball review,&quot; &quot;taylormade a golf ball,&quot; &quot;how to properly clean golf balls,&quot; &quot;best golf balls for high handicappers,&quot; Assuming your content is of high quality, an expert in your niche and because of that, because it's well-trusted. Again, I'm barely scratching the surface, but my authority a) requires extensive topical in a sub niche because of a); and c) building For visitors, they'll find a plethora of And for website owners, you'll likely have better assuming your content gets linked to. And I'll expand on why topical authority Now, if you've been building your site you should have narrowed in on keyword research for that sub-niche. I chose baby products as my main And in total, I generated a list of 239 car-seat the four different &quot;types&quot; of affiliate keywords. General comparisons; Branded comparisons; The only major thing that's left to do topics together so we can start And we'll be using our keyword lists to do this. Now, if you get no clue what I'm talking back to lesson 3.2. where I walked you affiliate marketing sites. But if you're all caught up, then let's way to map affiliate topics. And that's by creating product clusters. A product cluster is a simple content structure with multiple product review posts. Let's look at what this might So first, I'll choose a general comparison 3-year olds.&quot; This topic will sit at the top of our pyramid. Now, because general comparison topics recommendations, we'll need to choose And in my opinion, the best place to start For example, I actually own nine car seats of research and real-life testing. Now, I also have a couple kids that are the types of car seats we'll be One of our car seats is the Diono Radian include it in my round-up. Now, visually speaking, we would just &quot;best car seat for 3-year olds&quot; and Now, another car seat we have is the would recommend. So let's add another branch. Now, I'm not particularly happy with some so let's look at our product review seats we could potentially add. Now, I've already gone ahead and and installation videos for 14 And after researching, I've narrowed 3-year olds&quot; to a total of six car seats. The two that I have hands-on experience Graco 4ever dlx, and the Safety 1st Go and Grow. So let's add branches to our flow So to review, we know we're going to create plus, we're going to write six different general comparison post like &quot;Britax one4life Now, from an on-page perspective, we can simply from our general comparison And it would also make sense to link comparison post. We now have a product cluster. Now, the reason why I call product clusters reviews gets bigger, creating content for For example, when we go to create a post on small cars,&quot; we've already covered the Diono 3-year olds post. And that model just happens to be Now, branded comparisons also fit Looking at our list of branded comparison on &quot;graco extend2fit vs 4ever&quot;. Well, we just wrote two product reviews post would be super-easy. And of course, we could easily add whether they're one-way or Alright, the last type of keywords on stands for trust and authority. And these are mostly informational topics. Now, these topics may not directly important purposes: they can help you and build trust and authority. Now, unlike product clusters, informational a pyramid-type structure to them. For example, if you have four pages on together creating a perfect pyramid. Internal linking on these pages will mostly come For example, let's say we're It would be perfectly natural to link to &quot;when you should turn the car seat and &quot;requirements to change These are all related to car seat topics on our T&amp;A keyword list. Now, it would also make perfect sense to link to our commercial page on &quot;best car seats&quot; to buy a new one and could probably to an appropriate product. As you can see, creating these structures strict adherence as it is about creating When you have a big list of topics and you difficulty scores, it's tough to visualize And what happens more often than not, creating poor structure, which just makes But by having a solid internal linking plan, that should ultimately help you rank higher in #1. You'll create a better user experience for resources that may be helpful to them. And #2. You'll facilitate the flow of rank higher in Google. And without getting too technical, that just backlinks, the pages that it links to although to a lesser degree. Alright, so now that we've mapped out our And I won't go into how to create a WordPress of that is entirely up to your preferences. But I do want to talk about two super- And these are your homepage's content And that's coming up in the next lesson. Alright, so let's talk about homepages So very generally speaking, a homepage of the type of website. #1. It should communicate what #2. It should lead people And #3. It can be used to help rank Now, the first purpose is But the second and third points especially in the context of So let's expand. A conversion for an affiliate marketing site link and buys something Now, the thing is, you don't have But what is in your control, to a certain affiliate links in your content. So therefore, leading people towards just means getting visitors to engage recommends affiliate products. And the actual conversion that happens clicks one of your affiliate links. Now, as for my third point on using pages higher in Google, this comes the previous lesson. When you link to pages on your site with of something called &quot;PageRank.&quot; Basically, when the linking page gets or &quot;power&quot; over to the pages it links to, And it just so happens that homepages are Alright, let's look at a couple of examples things on their homepage. The first is Garage Gym Reviews. They state that their brand is about And on their site, they &quot;provide everything fitness-related.&quot; Scrolling down, you'll see some These are all clearly targeting Now, according to Ahrefs' Site Explorer, that are linked from their home page because they're actually ranking In fact, all four posts are ranking in Here's another example from Dog Food Advisors. They clearly state that their site is They're leading people towards their post an important post for this site. They're also linking to a &quot;dog food reviews A of different dog food reviews - all of which would Now, their &quot;best dog food&quot; page gets And yes, they rank in the top Their dog food reviews page also gets a lot &quot;dog food review.&quot; So when you're creating your homepage, because it works. And remember that it doesn't have to change the homepage at any time. Alright, let's move on to setting up Now, your navigation menu #1. It should help provide a good user whatever it is they're looking And #2. it should make it easy for search Here's what I mean. The way Google finds content on your site is For example, if Google lands on one the navigation which point to page A and page Then they can &quot;follow&quot; those links on the pages that page A and page B link to. And this process can go on Now, if all links are removed from page to discover any of these URLs because This is an overly simplified explanation But the main point is that we want search engines to discover our content And a well thought out navigation Now, your navigation links will largely depend or plan to have, which is typically dictated For a small site, the solution is easy clusters,&quot; which I taught you how to So you can simply link to some of your general This way, all your pages are accessible within Now, for a larger site where you have too you'll want to create category pages For example, if we look at the Wirecutter they have various categories Now, if I hover over Tech and click on the majority of posts at the top of this And these pages link out to all Again, there's no exact formula Ultimately, you want to create a good your content accessible to search engines. Alright, so if you followed along from have completed your keyword research, your homepage and navigation architecture. Now it's time to actually create And that's what we'll be diving In this module, I'm going to show you how And there are two main goals for our content. #1. We want it to rank in Google so we And #2. We want our information to informed purchasing decisions and we can Now, before we get into actually creating that's frequently pondered upon and that's content should I create for an affiliate site?&quot; Before we can try and answer this question, opposite extremes - one site with just informational Let's talk about the completely To help you visualize the types of content vs. posts, and product reviews. Now, the problem with this kind of site in my one of a kind, and demonstrate authority to be tough to really stand out. The only example I can think of that did were acquired by the New York Times. At that time, no one was really doing well thought-out tests because it required But the Wirecutter consistently did this really well. As a result, they earned the trust of people an overall authority in product reviews. The bar is much higher now. So to translate, if you're unable to at least you probably won't be able to rank, therefore, you won't make much in commissions. Now, let's look at the other extreme - This site will have tons of how-tos, for purely informational purposes. Now, because informational content typically earns ranking and getting traffic to your site. But the main downside to creating a fully stunt your revenue potential because to naturally recommend products. And affiliates get paid when people click So back to the question: what is the ideal for an affiliate site? Well, as I just explained, there's positives And because both are important, it's my is completely fine. That might be a 40/60, 50/50, 60/40, or whatever. Now, the good news is that if you followed already set yourself up for success. If you remember, one of the core content And again, these are groups of commercial posts with multiple product reviews So if we were to transform this map into topics we might have &quot;best car seats&quot; as our general and maybe one branded comparison post Boom. Our product cluster is complete Now, if we were going for a 1:1 ratio, we'd pieces about car seats. To do that, I'll draw from my keyword research Now, all we have left to do is And creating content is what we're going I'll show you how to write commercial and convert into affiliate commissions. Hey, it's Sam Oh and in this lesson, I'm going posts for an affiliate site. And when I say &quot;money-making,&quot; I'm referring covered in module 3. And these are general comparisons like &quot;Titleist Pro V1 Golf Ball Review,&quot; and vs. Taylormade TP5 Golf Balls.&quot; Now, when you're writing these kinds of have one primary goal in mind for your content. And that's to serve the intent of a visitor, with the information they find on your page. Now, the reason this is important is because you increase your chances of ranking higher the most relevant pages for any given query. And because these queries have commercial they're more likely to buy something from your Fortunately, creating content for these So I'm going to give you some flexible the best chance at ranking high So, let's talk about the first type general comparison keywords. Again, these posts are going to be what like &quot;best [product name].&quot; So, &quot;best garden hose,&quot; &quot;best Now, because the word &quot;best&quot; implies that you'll use for these general comparisons an article in list-format. And these general comparison posts The introduction, the summary, So let's start with the intro. Plain and simple, a listicle is not meant Nearly all readers will go in So with our intro, we want to keep it short actually trust what you have For example, if we're writing a post on the I might say something as simple as: &quot;We tested 10 car seats and rated In this post, we'll share our research car seat for your 3-year-old.&quot; It's short and sweet, instantly builds that they're in the right place. Alright, next up is the summary. As I mentioned before, listicles And that's because some, if not most the best product is. That's why I suggest having a section Here, you can simply add bullet points for &quot;best car seat money can buy,&quot; &quot;best car seat for Not only can this help improve clicks good user experience for those Alright, now we're on to the list points, Now, a list point is made up of The heading will usually be the name For example, my post on &quot;best car seats for Radian 3RXT,&quot; &quot;Britax Marathon,&quot; As for the description, you're just You want to give only necessary an informed purchasing decision. Now, when it comes to writing descriptions, throughout the post. For example, if we're reviewing car seats for to describe the car seat, a few sentences on our test categories like build quality, image of our analysis, and then perhaps Predictable formats help people absorb what we want for our readers. Now, last but certainly not least, we want your product review page in the description. We'll get into writing product review pages in Here, you'll want to wrap up the post. You can do this by summarizing your top your site that might be interesting to that reader. For example, it might make sense to link at the end of our best car seats post. Now, these general comparison pages tie in remember from module 3, a part of our And product clusters are simply content post with multiple product review posts. Now, when you're writing product reviews, different than the intent of those People who visit a &quot;best of&quot; post most likely Whereas someone who visits a product review review&quot; has likely narrowed down their search They're likely closer to making a purchase, and So your goal for product reviews should to help visitors decide if that specific So with that said, here's how I think First will be the introduction. And much like the &quot;best of&quot; post, you'll And the two things that I think are a) show the reader they're in the right place, comparison post to complete For example, if I was writing a post titled &quot;With its slim size and high safety ratings, of the most popular car In fact, we classified it as one of But it's not all glitz and glam. The Radian 3RXT is one of the heaviest some of our hands-on tests. In this review, we'll share the results of research to help you decide if this car seat is the right one for your toddler.&quot; Alright, now we're on to the body of the What you decide to cover here Basically, you want to cover the most your niche care about. For example, with car seats, that might be portability and specs. For golf balls, that might be distance, These are the things you should cover in will be your heading. And these categories are essentially what Now, with the conclusion, you'll just want who the product is best for. For example, for our Diono Radian &quot;The Diono Radian 3RXT is a solid In fact, it scored extremely On top of that, it's the only car seat we in the back of a small sedan. If budget is not an issue for you, then you be disappointed with the Diono Radian 3RXT.&quot; And we're done. Alright, the final commercial blog post type want to talk about are &quot;branded comparisons.&quot; And these are your typical &quot;vs posts&quot;. For example, Diono Radian 3RXT Now, when we think about someone who's the visitor has likely narrowed their product But, they can't really decide on which a side-by-side comparison. Basically, they're coming to your So just like with the product review posts, and again, help them make an informed So here's what the intro might look like: &quot;The Diono Radian 3RXT and Britax Marathon car seats. They both have all the bells and whistles, about every way. In this post, we'll compare the main features seat is best for your little one.&quot; Now, as for the body, we want to take and cover important topics that someone So again for a car seat shopper, that might portability and specs. But a key difference here is that instead highlighting these things for one product, we want to compare the differences Think of comparison tables that I'm or your favorite ecommerce store. Now, for the conclusion, it Just wrap things up. Now, two important things to note from an perspective in these branded comparison posts, is to internally link to the individual product guide. And this is going to help you complete your structure we talked about in module 3. Now, writing money-making or commercial posts Creating informational content on So in the next lesson, I'll show you how to informational blog posts that are likely to and show you how you can turn informational Hey, it's Sam Oh and in this lesson, I'm going posts for an affiliate marketing site. And by informational blog posts, I'm talking posts, and basically any type of content On top of that, I want to show you how informational blog posts that may not seem Let's call these silent profit generators. So let's get started. Now, before I walk you through some blog post and most important step to creating content Search intent represents the reason And the reason why it's important is because high in Google. For example, if we were creating a post about kids' car seats site, what do you think Should it be a step by step tutorial where convertible car seats? Or should it have a different format? Or wait... is this for convertible car seats, Well, this was kind of a trick question because seats&quot; is actually about cleaning the seats in your seat. How do I know this? Well, the way we identify search intent is entering the query in Google and looking at the top-ranking pages. After all, search engines want to show so the top-ranking pages are essentially the intent of a searcher. So as you can see, the top pages for &quot;how regular car seats so creating a post on rank for this query because Now, for argument's sake, let's say that intent Because the keyword has the word &quot;how to&quot; you need to create a step-by-step guide. But what's interesting, is that the top 2 a set of tips - meaning, an unordered So if you want to compete, you should follow to improve your chances of ranking high. We have a full SEO course for beginners where and actually creating optimized content for I'll link that up and some SEO content Alright, let's move on to a few blog post of informational content. And all of these content pieces will contain Let's kick things off with the first Listicles are blog posts that contain non-chronological tools, techniques, myths, mistakes, or whatever. For the title you can use any of these templates. Let's turn them into working titles: &quot;11 Ways to Sneak Snacks onto a Plane&quot; &quot;7 SEO Tips that Actually Work&quot; &quot;4 Blogging Techniques to Grow Your Audience&quot; Titles for listicles are about as easy as Now, as for the introduction, your goal in as few words as possible because most For example, if you're writing a post on 7 &quot;Ranking high in Google is more But that doesn't make it impossible. As you can see, our blog ranks for over Today, I want to share a few simple The intro is short and helps build trust because what the reader is hoping to achieve - The last thing I recommend including in the This makes it much easier for visitors to since listicles need to be skimmable. If you're using WordPress, there are plenty free plugins to choose from, just search for, &quot;table of contents&quot; in WordPress's plugins options to try. Alright, on to the main content. In the most basic form, your main content and content that complements the headings. Now, depending on the type of listicle For example, if you're doing a series of tips and descriptive headings that would make For example, if your post was on 17 Weight Spicy Foods,&quot; you might put &quot;#5. Eat Now, as for the content that goes under these your own mini-template. For example, if your post is on weight loss with weight loss in one sentence. Then you might explain how it works Then you can end off the list point with two tip into action. Consistency creates a predictable reading you as a writer to avoid tangents So with a mini template in hand, it'll just subheading and before you know it, For list posts, I wouldn't overthink the conclusion. The majority of people aren't even going to closure for people who do. My recommendation is to briefly summarize content that's related to your post. And internal links are good to use because a better user experience for your readers. So here's a sample of what Feel free to pause or rewind to make sure on to the next blog post template Step-by-step guides are your typical &quot;how-to&quot; chronological steps to teach how Now, for the title, you can use one So if we turn these into real &quot;How to Build a Deck (7 Steps)&quot; &quot;How to Start a Business (Even if &quot;How to Find Email Addresses for Now, for the intro, write a short one using solution, and proof. For example, let's say you have a step-by-step Your intro might read: &quot;Looking to grow your YouTube The &quot;trick&quot; is to target topics This is the approach that helped us grow our monthly views in one year.&quot; Now, the reason why the PSP method is effective guide usually come with a problem. They're looking for a solution. And if you have proof of that solution, Alright, so with the intro in the books, we be your step-by-step instructions. And because step-by-step guides have a logical H2s as the main steps. For example, our post on YouTube &quot;Step 1: Map out a hierarchy of topics.&quot; &quot;Step 2: Generate keyword ideas&quot; &quot;Step 3: Check search intent&quot; ...and so on and so forth. As for the conclusion, just keep it short tend to be quite long. Again, I recommend adding internal links to to want more at a dead end. So from our hypothetical YouTube keyword on YouTube SEO and getting more subscribers keyword research and serve what Here's a sample of what this Feel free to pause or rewind to make sure on to the next blog post template which Expanded definition posts are But rather than being written as a logical overview of a topic. Now, because these posts are expanded definitions, &quot;What is or what are [concept or acronym]&quot; then any additional details about your piece. For example, &quot;What is an Oligarch: &quot;What are SERPs: Search Engine &quot;What are NFTs? A Detailed Introduction Now, the great thing about expanded definition follow for the intro, main content, and conclusion. In short, you want people to come for So for the introduction, you'll want to keep or acronym. For example, our page on &quot;What are SERPs&quot; a supporting image, and then tells you with jump links to each section. Now, for the main content, I highly recommend you only want to include the most important [something]&quot; would want to know. For example, if we created a post targeting, for ideas in Google's People also ask box. So from this list, these could act You can also look in the related terms So based on these keywords, I'd probably want is the F in NFT, I'd want to talk about how you Finally, look at the subheadings for So this page talks about what they are, how they work, what they're used So assuming we were creating A Detailed Introduction to &quot;Expensive JPEGs,&quot; looks like this, where our intro solves the a decent introduction to the NFT space. Now, for the conclusion, you just need And again, I highly recommend adding internal want to learn more about. Because if they've made it to the bottom of want to learn more since the content The bottom line with all of these templates that they need to match the intent of the And the better you match it, the better your Now, I've previously talked about how informational The way you do that is by And product-led content is simply content the help of your product. Now, since you, as an affiliate, won't own of it as creating product-led content for For example, let's say you have a DIY home tools like drills, drivers and other tools. You might want to create a post on how to an estimated 2,700 monthly searches in Google. Now, as far as I'm aware, you need an air So it would be super-natural to organically And because air compressors aren't exactly some of these people will likely take your leading to a commission. We have a full tutorial on product-led content to learn how you can master silent profit And that wraps up this module. In module 5, we'll be talking about Get good at this, and you'll have no problems engines. In this module, we're going to talk about link building tactics and a simple macro that'll help you get higher Google rankings, search traffic, and more affiliate commissions. Now, backlinks are basically the fuel And while you may want to jump straight into you first understand how you can best harness the power link building for affiliate sites. So, link building, whether it's for an affiliate commonly done through email outreach. And this is where you contact people who might Now, reaching out to some &quot;Hey, you like gardening? I sell garden tools. You should recommend my product ... is kind of awkward. And beyond being awkward, There's no benefit for the recipient of be getting any or many backlinks at all. Now, let's flip the script a bit and &quot;Hey, Sam here from thegardenseo.com. Just wanted to say thanks for sharing with [Company A's] garden box kit. I bought the same model and had the exact problem with the pieces not lining up properly. After some tinkering, I found a cool way I wrote about it in this post and If you find it helpful, perhaps your Cheers, Sam&quot; This is a bit less awkward because there's want to share and link to your content. It's genuinely helpful and people Now, that brings us to the realities Yes, helpful content is going to be So this will mostly be your informational which we called T&amp;A keywords in module 3. Now, as for commercial content like your and product reviews, these are a bit trickier goes to you. And people receiving these link But that doesn't change the fact that you to get backlinks to these commercial pages So I have two suggestions for you. #1 is to use the middleman method. This is when you build backlinks to the more it'll be easier to get links. And as the links pile in, that page's Now, since you control this authoritative you can actually add internal links from here to your money pages. And what ends up happening is that some to your commercial page that will hopefully The informational post is essentially acting be hard to get backlinks to and will help We have a full tutorial on this SEO strategy Now, for more competitive topics, you're the commercial content. And the best way you can do that is to just your content really really really really And when you actually have content that's you're going to want to promote it because that it'll feel like a crime not to share A few things you can do to improve your content add custom photography or graphics, or get Making your content better than your your niche and personal taste. So I highly recommend watching our that's better than your competitors which juices flowing. Now, this is just the general backlink strategy And in the next lesson, I'm going to share proven link building techniques you can use to start putting this strategy into action. Hey, it's Sam Oh and in this lesson, I'm going building tactics for your affiliate site. Now, link building is largely a numbers game to get backlinks. But there's one thing that can significantly the techniques that I'm about to share with And that's expertise. When you're an expert in something, that insights to share. And as a result, people will take For example, let's say you have a beauty blog getting a regular teeth whitening is good Now, if some random person emails you a post explaining why you're wrong called teeth whitenings&quot;, you'll probably ignore But if a dentist emails you and tells you products are good for you and the ones dangerous, because of x, y, and z, you might and link to their content. They clearly have expertise. Now, being an expert, in the context of be in the top 1% of your field. The majority of people writing content probably write about. So even being a passionate hobbyist can go to share from your own personal experiences. Now, I know absolutely nothing about this misinformation. But the point is that if you're positioning in your niche, link building will be much to share with you today. And that leads us nicely into the first link from HARO. HARO stands for help a reporter out. It's a service that connects Just sign up for an account as a &quot;source&quot; you'll start getting emails with a list of from journalists at various publications. And these include Business Insider, The New Now, HARO is a super-easy way to get high- the ones that are soliciting sources Now, there are tons of requests that come be relevant to your niche. So you can set up a simple Gmail Just go to your Inbox and click on the caret Next, set the &quot;From&quot; field to Then, you'll want to set the subject to &quot;HARO&quot; emails include that in the subject line. Finally, set the &quot;Has the words&quot; field And also use the OR search operator to Click &quot;Search&quot; to see the results your out some of the emails to ensure If everything looks good, click on the Now, even though we've filtered down the results are going to cite you just because you responded. And while you should go the extra mile to unique and insightful information, half the is in responding to the right questions. So to increase your chances of getting mentioned, likely looking for multiple experts on the topic. For example, in this query, Bustle is in the plural of therapist. And they want to know more Now, the description is even more She says: &quot;I'm working on an article to boredom in a relationship.&quot; So more likely than not, she's looking the blanks in her outline. So if that niche makes sense for you, then a response as possible, and then Now, if you're an expert in the field, then sure to state your credentials in the beginning of their email to set a tone and then earn trust through your knowledge and experience. I'd recommend using HARO without The quality of links are just that good for And if you're pairing HARO with the affiliate you'll be maximizing the mileage from Alright, the second tactic Guest posting is when you create And generally speaking, that post comes site. Now, while some sites won't allow you to will, as long as it makes sense and So the first thing you need to do is find posts. To get started, you can use Ahrefs Content billions of pages and get SEO Just search for a topic related to Next, let's set a Domain Rating filter to both very low and very high authority websites. So I'll choose a range like 30 to 60. I'll also choose the &quot;One page per domain&quot; website multiple times. Finally, I'll set the &quot;Published&quot; filter to narrow in on websites that have published Now, we still have around 80,000 websites search results, which is just way too many So let's head on over to the Websites tab, will show you the top 100 websites from your Now, it's just a matter of looking at look relevant, and pitching your For example, this site gets decent search from Google, has a decent website authority, and has a bunch of authors, meaning, So let's visit their site and take a look Things look fine here so let's head And since they list their editor here, I'll Now, if you don't know how to find these video on how you can do that in the description. Alright, the next link building tactic I recommend is to do podcast interviews. Much like guest-posting, being interviewed a podcast puts you in the spotlight as an in front of a someone else's audience. So if you actually have expertise in your this is going to be an easy one for you that'll a) help you build a reputation and b) get backlinks while you're at it. Now, the thing I love about podcasts as a building strategy is that it only takes around an hour of your time and links are almost if you choose your podcasts appropriately. Here's what I mean: a lot of podcasts have And these pages almost always include and their social profiles. So to find podcast prospects that are likely link to your site, you can simply reverse-engineer a podcast interviewee's homepage For example, if you're in the SEO niche, might want to check backlinks to Tim Soulo's Twitter profile, since he's been a guest To get started, I'll go to Ahrefs' Site Next, I'll go to the Backlinks report. Now, to narrow in on links from podcasts, set a page title filter to search for referring pages where the word "podcast" From here, you can sift through the results, a guest when appropriate. The benefit to being on podcasts You get the chance to meet like-minded people can go a long way even from an SEO perspective. Now, if you follow the course and rinse have no problems getting some If you want to go beyond these tactics, then link building for beginners which And that wraps up our affiliate marketing course. I've linked up a full playlist to this Thanks for joining me, consider subscribing