(lively salsa music) - This is the definition of a meat sauna. This is an ultimate fiesta in here. It's just a party in the a meat party. All the action, the energy in here. The meat love is out of control. (lively salsa music) Good morning, I hope you're It's Mark Wiens. I am in Oaxaca City and Oaxaca is known for having some of the best, one of the ultimate food so I'm thrilled to be here. We're gonna walk around today, we're gonna go visit some local markets. We're gonna eat some amazing Oaxacan food, we're gonna visit some attractions. We have one full day in Oaxaca City. We're gonna make the most of it and I'm gonna share it all with you in this video right now. (speaking foreign language) A cup of hot chocolate, mixes Oh man, this is a frothy, bubbly cup of fresh hot chocolate, Oaxacan-style. Oh, wow. (speaking foreign language) We decided to try a Tamal de Mole, and it's steamed in a corn husk. There's the masa and then you Okay, let's try this. Oh, oh it's so hot! I love how that's just stuffed, it's just packed, it's And you can taste the You can taste a little and then it's all wrapped I need a sip of hot chocolate after that. Oh, we are off to an amazing start. That was just my first bite and my first beverage and it was fantastic. Oh, and that's making me excited. We need the bunny hat. (people chattering) Oh that hits the spot in the morning. That's wonderful. - Mark, Micah wants this hat. - Micah. (upbeat music) It's 8:00 a.m. right now and we're starting off this morning at Mercado Abastos, which is the biggest, it's the largest market in Oaxaca City. It's absolutely gigantic. You can find everything and seafood, oh, lots and Anything, (speaking foreign language). Also, we're gonna also find that we're gonna eat for breakfast. If you need a new pair of underwear, if you need a pet, if you this is the market to come to. Oh, we're coming to the (speaking foreign language) (lively salsa music) Some of the stalls are still opening because I think they open this whole entire market, but this stall back here It's called Comedor Lupita. I'm not even totally but there are a lot of people here. You know it's gonna be delicious, so we're gonna stop here (speaking foreign language) Shrimp soup or fish soup? Shrimp soup or fish soup? (people chattering) They put a ball of masa in the, what is that called, a flattener, and then they flatten it into a tortilla and then the tortillas go onto the comal, which is a hot stone, and So we got fresh tortillas here, we got the Caldo de a fish soup, and then Caldo de Camaron, which is the shrimp soup. For the Caldo de Pescado, just overflowing over the bowl. I'm just gonna taste that broth first, before I add some seasoning. (people chattering) Mm, it's a little bit tomato-y. You can taste some herb in there. And you do taste the that's a little bit fishy. I'm gonna squeeze in some lime. (people chattering) And they also have some onion which is all communal, which I'm gonna add a bunch of onions Oh yeah, this is gonna be amazing. And then also some cilantro. (dishes clattering) Okay, and then for this bite, Oh yeah, I'm not sure but it's a whole fish in here. Look at all that meat on the side. Oh wow, that's hot. (people chattering) Mm, oh the fish is awesome! Mm, it's really like silky in texture. Actually the broth tastes but the fish is very not fishy tasting at all. I can't wait to try one and I think the easiest thing and you kinda eat it (people chattering) Mm, mm-hmm, the tortilla's a You can taste the fresh corn. Actually it only tastes like pure corn, maybe just with water in it. It's good, it doesn't taste Okay, one more addition to the soup that I didn't know they even I gotta add some. (dishes clattering) (people chattering) - [Man] This is what made - Yeah, this market? No, I had no clue where to come here. We were just gonna walk around (speaking foreign language) Oh, oh that salsa is nice. A little bit sour, and I think they're roasted. You can taste a smoky flavor to them. Mm, this is a very soothing, very warming dish to eat in the morning. I'm loving it. Next I'm moving over for the Squeeze in a little more lime. Okay, take a look at this. This is the same soup base, but full of big shrimp with So, I'll actually just take pluck off that head. (lively salsa music) Yeah, that's a good fresh shrimp, then we follow with some of the soup. Mm, yeah, this is a wonderful dish. Taste that with a tortilla. Both of the soups are excellent, just depending if you want, it just depends if you want I like them both. Probably I like the fish better, it's a little more meaty. Mm, mm, (speaking foreign language). - [Woman] Ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha. - One more thing that I because of how they serve it. They serve it with a spoon, You can smell the coffee in there and then you can also really It's okay to pick this up, right? (lively salsa music) - [Woman] Oh. - Ah! It's very light. It's not like a strong coffee, it's a very, very light coffee, almost like you're just drinking water, hot water with a little and then a little bit but I mean, you can't think or like a strong coffee. And what's also cool is that in this bowl of coffee. If you look down you could Can you see my face down there? This is a massive clay cup of coffee. I'm gonna be peeing like This was a great place. They're really friendly, very popular local place for breakfast, and yeah, that just hit the spot. It's, you know, it's like it's comforting. That's what you need in the morning. (people chattering) (lively salsa music) Okay, and I am loving the produce here. There are so many different The passion fruit is gorgeous. There are mangoes. There are berries. There's a lot of and vegetables here, and especially things that look like they're kind Yeah, this is a great market. (people chattering) (upbeat music) One of the things that around the market, especially the vegetable is that they have a lot and vegetables, as well arid-climate fruits and vegetables. So it's a huge mix of such a diversity of fruits and vegetables, that's part of what makes (upbeat music) This is my kind of a market. There's an entire lane that's just garlic. There's so much garlic. There's just an abundance in this market. (speaking foreign language) We're just completely within this labyrinth of a market, but we could see the smoke and we knew it was a for our next thing to eat. (people chattering) (tortillas sizzling) She works so fast but you can I can't wait. I can't wait to try it. And those salsas just look insane, in huge mortars, stone mortars. (speaking foreign language) (people chattering) (speaking foreign language) In order to make our she first pounds the then it grills over the hot metal plate, which is sitting over charcoal. And we got the one with meat, so she takes a really thin strip of meat, she puts it into a little grill. She sticks it underneath the hot plate, which is where the coals are burning. So that roasts until it looks then she adds on something called asiento, which is, she explained I think it's a lard, a pork lard. Spreads that on, then she from this giant salsa And then after that, she which is cheese and then finally we got that piece of meat all on top. It's so hot, it's so fresh. Okay Carlos, you ready? - [Carlos] Ready, let's do it. - Yeah, these are so juicy, they're just dripping with salsa. (upbeat music) Oh. Mm, oh that is insane. Carlos. - Mm-hmm. (speaking foreign language) - Mm, good. - It's so good. You can really taste that salsa in there, which is like very smoky, (speaking foreign language) That's just outstanding. Definitely my favorite part of that entire Memela is that salsa. The complexity of flavor in (people chattering) Whoa, I'm so happy right now. Wow, that was absolutely phenomenal. So flavorful, I absolutely loved it, and she's so friendly, she's Oh man, what a wonderful lady. I have no idea how I can It's somewhere within You just gotta walk around but you will find little gems What a market. This is a place you have to visit when you're in Oaxaca City. This is the type of market I for the entire day, just see new things, and eat! But we have a lot more to do today, so we gotta move on and we're gonna head to the center of the city now. (car horns honking) The weather is actually perfect today, and it's actually not that far to El Zocalo, which is the (speaking foreign language), so we're just walking over there, and we're about to reach the old town. (tapping) (people chattering) (speaking foreign language) (tapping) We cannot make it very far in Oaxaca without finding more food. The food here is so good! So she has this giant pot of slow-bubbling pork and and then they're just Right as we were walking past, she pulled out the bubbling heart, and Carlos and I decided that we needed to have a quick taco We cannot make it far! She chopped up the heart then and then she added some and maybe a little bit of salsa. Or maybe that's some green salsa as well. (people chattering) Oh man. Mm, oh that's delicious. Heart is so tender. It's not even iron-y at all, and then that guacamole in there. There's a little bit of salsa and the cilantro comes in nicely. Oh man! That heart is so tender, you know heart can sometimes That is so moist. (speaking foreign language) Wow, that was superb. It's so (chuckling), that was one of those that there was just absolutely on the sidewalk without tasting that. We had to. Okay, we're on our way to El Zocalo now. Oh, there's just so much food. Okay, we can't stop, we can't stop, we gotta keep on moving. But I want to so, I wanna stop so badly. (laughing) There's so much good food, it's endless. (upbeat music) (people yelling) We're almost to the it's a huge protest. Many of them are doctors and nurses. I think protesting some but we're gonna just to the center there and then visit the main (people yelling) It looks like the entire in the center there and it's I think we're gonna avoid it right now. Maybe we'll have a chance but instead we're gonna go eat some more at another market which is a especially for their grilled meat. This is the place I was looking forward, have been looking forward (upbeat music) Welcome to Mercado 20 de Noviembre, which is also known as the There's so much meat here! You choose your meat, they Oh, this is the place for (lively salsa music) (speaking foreign language) (lively salsa videos) (speaking foreign language) (lively salsa music) (speaking foreign language) - Enchilada. - [Mark] Enchilada, ah. (lively salsa music) There's about 40 or 50 all with an assortment of different meat and I think they all pretty There's beefsteak, there's pork steak, there's longanisa, the sausages, there are some other things. Finally, you just gotta We went with a very friendly lady. She offered us the whole mixed plate, so we got the mixed plate. What they do is they weigh my favorite part of the entire process was how she takes the meat and she onto the grill, chucks it onto the grill. It lands perfectly onto the grill, then they grill everything over just flaming hot charcoal. This entire alley is a meat paradise. This is the definition of a meat sauna. (people chattering) (speaking foreign language) Yes, yes, (speaking foreign language). (meat sizzling) (people chattering) (speaking foreign language) We're taking our tray Oh man, it's just filled with And we're going to the It's a little confusing and (people chattering) We got a table at the and they serve you just the entire tray. It's an entire basket of Oh, we got some salsas to go with it and we got some red paper to eat off. The meat aromas within your mouth will Okay, I'm gonna try a (lively salsa music) Oh wow. Oh that's insane. Oh, it's salty. It's tender but you feel the stringiness of that meat. You can taste how it's been grilled over such a hot charcoal fire. It has such a smokiness to it. And with that saltiness, that produces such an (lively salsa music) Wow. That's absolutely stunning. I love those roasted (people chattering) Oh, I love the roasted peppers, too. This is an ultimate fiesta in here. It's just a party in the a meat party. All the action, the energy in here. The meat love is out of control. Okay, next up this is a marinated pork that she said it's in a chili marinade. (lively salsa music) I love that marinade. It's a little bit on the You can taste the dried chilies in there. You can taste it's already (lively salsa music) Next up, I'm gonna try the longanisa, which is the sausage that she grilled. When she was grilling that, you could just see the flames shooting up because of all that juicy as it was grilling. Okay, I'm gonna put the longanisa into a little piece of tortilla, add some of that salsa, it's with tomatoes and chilies and onions. (people chattering) Wow. Mm-hmm, it's just meat (lively salsa music) That sausage is so smoky. (people chattering) Those onions are so sweet. - [Carlos] That's like a bar. (laughing) Mark, there's one more left on there. (laughing) (speaking foreign language) - Oh wow, oh that's delicious. That's so smoky. It's a little bit chewy, but that releases so much juicy flavor. Yeah, I love intestines, (people chattering) We are now walking out into, oh, the market sort of of Meat Alley, and they Oh, this place is amazing! There's still so much amazing but we're getting kind of full, We're gonna walk around, we're gonna go back to the main plaza and to a couple of churches hopefully we'll eat some more. We've only been walking and already this Mexican the city has been outstanding. I love this city, people are friendly, the food is incredible, the culture. It's such a food-based culture. (upbeat music) (Micah blows raspberry) - [Woman] Micah (chuckling). - We walked back over to El Zocalo which is the main public and today, yeah, it's still but things have quieted down a little bit. People are wandering off but even if there's not a protest here, it's still a bustling It's just an overall very pleasant area. (upbeat music) We're walking up the walking You can see all the and we are walking towards Santo Domingo. (upbeat music) This entire Plaza Santo Domingo, it's an incredibly You can come here just to relax, sit on the walls of the plaza. The church, the architecture is gorgeous. It's calm, they have the You can take your photos. But it's a beautiful place. This is a great place to spend some time, when you are full after and take a little break when you're in Oaxaca. We're walking out of old town and we're on our way to go eat at, it's a restaurant that serves Okay, you'll see what it is. (car motor humming) This is the spot and I (speaking foreign language) Oh yeah, it's really quiet right now, but I think it will really but we're gonna have other plans tonight, so we're here as soon as they (upbeat music) Tlayudas are one of the Put on a thin layer of she adds on some cabbage and then, the famous Oaxacan cheese, which is like a mozzarella string cheese, and she really strips it into thin strips but puts a lot of cheese on the inside. Then it goes over the hot But you can smell like that very fast, kinda almost burning aroma to it, but they keep flipping it but that cheese starts to And then you can order it with your variety of different meats, which then they also grill And then they put it So we got some fresh (upbeat music) I think they're all the same on the inside but then they just come with This one is the marinated pork. But yeah, you can see and they're folded up. It comes with some garnishes. There are some salsas and some That's pretty heavy! You can really smell the burnt, 'cause they keep it on such a hot fire but they just keep flipping it. We gotta take a look inside. Oh yeah. Look at all of that. Oh, there's so much cheese! That's like a giant mouth (upbeat music) That cheese is so elastic-y, and then, it does have an amazing like You can taste the The beans sort of give and then, yeah, that's just delicious. Okay, and let me add on some of the salsas and a squeeze of lime, and of those onions on here, with some, they kinda look like pickled onions. Okay, let me pick this - [Man] Getting heavy. - [Woman] Yeah. - Mm, oh, mm-hmm. Oh, that really enhances it. The guacamole, the squeeze of lime to make it sour, the onions. I think that's the touch it needed for me, because it was lacking that Some of this garnish. I don't know what this is. Mm, slightly onion-y but without the, like a grassy-tasting onion. I think this is the same meat that we just ate an entire platter of. Oh, yes it is. We got three different types, but really they're all exactly the same. The only thing that's different So it kinda doesn't really I like how the cheese, I mean, the cheese is not too salty. They use a lot of cheese, so you think it's gonna be but actually the cheese is kinda light. Not too salty, it has a nice (people chattering) From here, we're gonna jump in a taxi. It's a little ride away. We're gonna go to a (upbeat music) (child vocalizing) There it is. This site, Monte Alban, is It's at the top of the mountain. It overlooks the valley and It was a pretty nice drive to get here. And I was just reading that it is the largest, pre-Hispanic city in the Oaxaca region. Something else that's very that it's the first urban, planned city. So actually where they took time to plan the entire city out I don't know, everything is planned. This is the first urban So it says this is the main plaza, and it dates back to around 500 to 800 AD, and it's a 40-meter wide stairway. Okay, I'm climbing up. (footsteps clicking) Whoo! (upbeat music) It's 5:00 p.m., that's when they close. I wasn't really sure what but it was well worth a visit. And what I like is that you're able to climb up some of the ruins, get the view of the whole city. That was great! (people chattering) We're on our way back to Centro now. (lively music playing) You just gotta love the That music. We made it back to El and it's perfect. It's in the evening, this is the time when when they're hanging out, And we came here actually last I wasn't filming but we where they're making Elotes. And Elotes, it's corn It's one of the most and you'll find it all over. Like, in the evening, You'll find it everywhere, but this guy, he has the longest line of any Elotes cart in the entire city. And then we asked some in line last night why, and they said it's because of his style. (upbeat music) (speaking foreign language) All the best things. (speaking foreign language) Had a lot of things. (upbeat music) (speaking foreign language) I would make a guess to say that he probably has the most at seasoning a cob of corn. He just flies! Is Micah allowed to taste it? - [Woman] No. - Sorry, Micah, you can't taste this 'cause there's lots of and a lot of mayonnaise so to watch this one. But it looks beautiful. It's just covered in so many things, this has to be the I've ever had in my life. (people chattering) Mm! Oh, it's young corn, so it's really soft and tender and juicy. Full of mayonnaise. There's so much mayonnaise on it. Then you got the cheese which You've got all those different chilies, which are kinda salty. The lime juice on there and then, you know, just (upbeat music) That's so good. And you'll see, like, so eating this at this time. Another thing that I how, you know, he sells that's so typical, yet he He takes such pride in what he does, and I fully respect that, and I'm fully willing to wait in line 'cause he takes such (upbeat music) I think I got a little It's been a very long day, that we have to eat to make We are back at Mercado 20 de Noviembre for one last plate of food. On the opposite side of the you'll find, it's kind where you'll find all sorts This is a great environment and actually a lot of the because they're mostly, I think, they're most popular at lunch. But you can come here to Oaxacan-style, and we're gonna try a couple Starting off with is Mole negro. Oh (speaking foreign language). And this is one of the It's, yeah it's probably one, I mean, it's a dish you They're famous for Mole here and it's an exquisite blend of spices. I know there's nuts in the sauce. I think with the Mole negro That aroma is insane, you Such a dark, rich, like (people chattering) Mm! It has a little bit of a sweetness to it. So then you can taste the slight bitter-y flavor to it. You can taste all those chilies in there. The nuttiness of it. It's such a complexity of flavor. (upbeat music) Mm-hmm, a great way to end the day. Carlos and I are splitting the so this is the red Mole version, which I don't think it includes chocolate, or some of the other spices. It's a totally, actually of spices and mixture. Mix that with some of the rice. (upbeat music) Mm! Mm, that's like totally different. It's more on the saltier, I really like it. It's almost like a curry sauce. We've come to the end of the day. I'm running on my last steam but I have a little bit more energy now after that Mole, that final plate. Oh, that was delicious. I like both versions We only had one full day in Oaxaca City, so we wanted to make the most of it. I think it was an amazing success. I'm very, very happy and And I'll leave all the and the things we ate in so you can check all that out. And I wanna say a huge thank Please remember to give it a thumbs up. Also remember to subscribe. I'm gonna be publishing lots and click the little bell icon so you get notified of all future videos. Good night from Oaxaca. Thanks again for watching and I will see you on the next video.