- [Jared] This is the space shuttle. It's kind of like a space plane. It launched like a rocket, but then landed like an In this video we're going at the inside of the orbiter vehicle. We'll see the crew and all the way to the My name is Jared. I make 3D animations on how things work. In the past I've had a lot of fun doing other space animations like the International Space Station and the Apollo Spacecraft. I'll leave links for But I think it's about time at the space shuttle. Thanks to our sponsor for a fun and interactive way to learn math, science and engineering. The space shuttle was and flew 135 missions. 2011 was the last time the The space shuttle consists the orange external tank, and then the two white or SRBs for short. The external tank is for the three main engines. The two SRBs each carry their own fuel. This is a partially reusable system. The orbiter and the two SRBs are reusable, but the external tank was not reusable. They had to make a new Keep in mind that a lot the space shuttle even though technically this is just one part So, orbiter vehicle or space shuttle. Sometimes these terms Let me show you what a The space shuttle was launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida. (bright music) The two SRBs did most of the At that point they were detached and fell back down to the earth where they would be recovered The three main engines are on their own for the next six and a half minutes. (bright music) After that the orange and it fell down to the earth where it burned up in the atmosphere. The three main engines are now dead weight and won't be used for the The last push to get into orbit is done by the two smaller OMS motors. Now the shuttle will circle the That's a speed of 28,000 The payload bay doors will be And in fact for most of the time the orbiter will be facing This protects the astronauts Many of the missions were but some missions went as Anywhere in this area is and it's where all of the At the end of the mission, the OMS motor fires up to It doesn't change the speed by much, but it's enough to send it on a path back through the atmosphere and things are going to get a little hot. This part is called reentry. (bright music) Once we're close to the ground, the orbiter glides down to the runway. The wheels are extended and the orbiter lands This red parachute helps to Now remember the orbiter is reusable. Before the space shuttle, launch vehicles were only You had to build a new but with the space shuttle, the orbiter vehicle could There were five of them Columbia, Challenger, Discovery, And actually there was The very first orbiter to be built. This one never flew in space, but it was only used Challenger and Columbia were but the other four orbiters here in the United States. Let's take a closer look at the orbiter. (bright music) Some have called this the most complex flying On most missions it had a and stayed in space for one to two weeks. It is 37 meters long and 24 meters wide. For comparison here's which landed astronauts on the moon and here is a Boeing 747. Let's take a look at the and then I'll show you more The main body down the center We can break this up into three parts: The forward, mid and the aft fuselage. The aft fuselage has a vertical and three engines on the back. These are called the space The two smaller ones up here are called the OMS rocket motors, and OMS stands for Orbital The mid fuselage has the and then in the center is the payload bay. Sometimes called the cargo bay. This is where they would Forward fuselage has the nose cone and the full reaction These tiny holes are thrusters the orientation of the shuttle in space. And most importantly the crew compartment. This is where the astronauts On the bottom is the otherwise known as the heat shield. There are more than 27,000 silica tiles to protect the shuttle from There are three doors on the bottom that contain the landing gear. These open up once the shuttle Okay, we've seen the now let's take a look at the inside starting with the crew compartment. There are three levels in here: The flight deck, the mid The flight deck has the The commander is on the left There are two more seats directly behind, but these will be stowed away for most of their time in space. At the back of the flight deck These two windows look There's also two windows on The flight deck has a hole on the floor that leads down to the mid deck. There's a ladder, but when you're in space The mid deck is where the crew eats, sleeps and does some of their work. These are the lockers to store equipment and personal belongings of the astronauts. These are the sleep stations. It can fit three astronauts horizontally. More astronauts sleep in bags There's no gravity in space so sleeping is a bit This is the galley used to prepare food. Don't forget about the bathroom in space. This is called the This is the airlock for when astronauts get and then go outside to Behind this row of lockers This holds equipment and computers that can help fly the shuttle. Several seats can be for launch and reentry. The shuttle was designed to On most missions there were seven, three on the mid deck and Below the mid deck is the equipment bay which holds the waste pumps, and more storage space. The crew compartment here is the only pressurized which means is the only part without a space suit. The side hatch is how they enter and leave the orbiter on earth. The hatch is not used If they did it would suck all the air out. Not good. When it's time for some of they'll use the airlock. For now I'm going to skip We'll come back to it. The engines are in the aft fuselage which is in the very back. This is the thrust structure for the space shuttle main engines. These are RS-25 engines which are powered by liquid The fuels are stored in the external tank during the launch through the atmosphere. The fuel was fed through and back to the three engines. The fuel is extremely The hydrogen is pumped down and then back up the inside In this way the fuel was before it is burned. All three engines can be or up and down. This was done during the Right above there's the orbital maneuvering These helped give the at the beginning of the mission and also slow the spacecraft The OMS is actually made of two pods on each side of the vertical stabilizer. These contain their own You'll also notice that there are more There's even more of them underneath. This is part of the reaction We saw earlier in the video in the front as well. All three RCS modules can work together to change the orientation of the shuttle. The orbiter has several parts which are very similar The wings, the elevons, the body flap, and the vertical stabilizer This rudder can also These parts don't really but they will matter once and ready to land. Okay, now let's take a closer Once in orbit around the earth, the payload bay doors are It's very important to because they have radiator to help get rid of excess heat. The bay is big enough to fit a payload of up to 18 meters long This was used to launch many satellites including the Hubble Space Telescope. It was also used to launch modules for the International Space Station. On some missions they carried which has extra working space The astronauts can get in here by floating through the access tunnel. Along the left side of the called the Shuttle also known as the Canadarm. This was a contribution by Canada. It was operated from the controls at the back of the flight deck. They looked right through this window. The Canadarm was used to grab and move payloads around in space. It was also used to move When astronauts put on their it's called an EVA or The astronauts put their then they can open up the and go out into the vacuum of space. Later shuttle missions had the airlock in the mid deck removed and another one was installed This whole system is called Here's the airlock, the and this top part is This is how the space to the International Space Station. Once it's docked the to and from the station. (soft music) The orbiter does not have All of the electricity is generated underneath the payload bay. You'll notice several for liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen. Then at the front there The hydrogen and oxygen are to generate electricity. As a side effect this also creates water which can then be used or as drinking water for the astronauts. The technology used in the space shuttle would not have been possible who can solve challenging problems like how to launch a rocket into space or use a giant robotic Engineers need a strong A good place to start This is a problem solving website and app that teaches you how to think. Just watching or reading isn't enough to really master these skills. Learning is best when at every step of the way. Brilliant offers over 60 courses like math and science. Maybe you'll dive right into calculus or gravitational physics, but more likely you'll want like algebra, geometry, or They even have a phone app, so you can do this whenever Learning math, science and Brilliant's interactive the whole way through. Sign up for free by going The first 200 people will get 20% off their annual premium membership. (soft music)