Hey, everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I want to talk to you about salary salary negotiation with Local Government or So, if you want to know more about negotiating button, subscribe to my channel, dive right So, I recently had an email from a subscriber He says, Hey, Don, I got a job offer from less than I was making before. Then they already told me that that's the it and they're unwilling to negotiate. What should I do? For starters, negotiating with any kind of They're just the worst. And not because they won't negotiate, it's They have a certain number, a grade mark, based on a certain individuals experience to do on the job. As a general rule, Local Governments and Federal counterpart. So, if you're going to work for the government, But you see, they don't really have the flexibility money. Their hands are tied. I mean, they're public organizations. There's only so much they can do. So, what do you do? I mean, they offer you $3000 bucks less and how do you get more? Well, Ill tell you; the problem is you If you find yourself in a position where they're you were making, before you screwed up. And I'm going to tell you where you screwed And don't feel bad; a lot of people do this. You screwed up because during your first interview, And I'll tell you; the first time you need When that person calls you up and says, Hey, for senior programming position. Are you interested? about the position; you see what it's about, that. The next thing you need to ask them for this position? or Do you have a And they're either going to say Yes going to say, Yes, we do have a range in range? And they might say, Well, it's is. But at least, you get this out in the open before you ever have an interview. And a lot of people, they won't even do this. They feel that it's taboo or it's inappropriate And I say, No, not at all. free, are you? If you are, then don't bring up salary. But if there's a certain number that you have up tactfully, respectfully, but you need to you. And just ask them; you don't have to ask them Just say, Do you guys have a salary range set aside for this? And it's between 77 thousand and 83 thousand. And let's say that you're making 95 thousand. They are really outside of your range; don't they're not; they can't. I mean, if this were private industry, they But that's a different story. This is government. So, that's the problem a lot of people make job interview process and they wait till the government says, Here you go. Here's an offer and you look at it, you're This is three or five or $10 thousand less like, That's the best we can do. didn't address this earlier. Had you addressed this earlier, you would in mind and they can only pay X amount of And if you don't fall within that range, don't with them. Unless you're willing to take a cut. I mean, I once knew a lady in Canada. She was probably making about $110 thousand; And she interviewed with a governmental organization. They offered her 62 thousand; 62 thousand. This woman had 20 years experience. She was making over $100 thousand. They said, We'll give you 62. pushed him, she squeezed them, she worked She's was like, Hey, Don, what can I do? I got to get more than this. They want to pay me half of what I was making And so, we talked over some strategies and And she went in, you know what they came back 67. They upped it. They upped it five grand. Thanks. So, you got to understand that government with salary. They just dont. There's only so much they can pay. And I'm sure that that's true in Canada. That's true in the United States. And I'm sure that's just true all over the Government agencies are publicly funded agencies They can't be paying exorbitant rates that There's just so much they can do. But it's your job to find out what that job And like I said, just do it tactfully. Just ask them, Has a salary range been Now, let's just say you're late to the game You've already had your phone interview and an in-person interview. And this is your first interview. Don't let this be the first question you ask you're all about the money. I mean, you need the money, it's like oxygen, about the money. So, it's a good closing question. Save salary questions for closing questions. Because if you bring it up first, it makes If you bring it up last, then it makes it job, based on everything you said. So, what's the compensation? Mr. Employer, I'm really interested in the I really like what you guys are doing. Have you guys decided on a salary range for You don't say anything else. Don't say, Well, I was making this before. I was making that. You shut up; stop talking. You let them speak. And if you're in there with the first interview, And they're probably going to come back and tell you what it is, then prompt them and going to say, Well, it's between 80 thousand There's usually like a 10 to 20 percent span And it just depends on qualifications and think you have. So, that's the key to asking the question, so that they don't think that you're just money, money. But I mean, that's why we are there. We're not willing to work for free. We do want to be paid and compensated fairly. And there's nothing wrong with that. And you should want that. Now, as far as negotiating the offer, that's but I just wanted to cover one of the key Now, if we go back to the original question Don, they're offering me $3000 less, what They are not going to offer me anymore. less than what you need -- like I said, you it's too late, what do you do? Well, what you can do is ask for other benefits. Try to make up for it with vacation time; You see, their hands are going to be tied But other things, other intrinsic things, So, maybe you can get an extra week or two Or another thing you can do is say, Hey, I'll come to work for you for $3000 less. But after six months, after you've had a chance give me the extra 3000 after six months. That might give them more flexibility to factor months of time. That's another option that you can do that negotiating tool set. Now, another tip on negotiating: Never negotiate So, if you got this letter where it's $3000 get on their computer and type a letter and Can I have a little bit more than that? It puts you at a severe disadvantage. Because you try to negotiate with me an email, back and say, No, I can't do that. And recourse. What do you do? You always want to negotiate in-person or And there's specific reason for this; because You want to hear the tone of their voice when You want to listen to see how definite it Maybe you can detect that they're not really So, when you're trying to negotiate through that is just kind of lost. You always want to negotiate over the phone Because if you say, Hey, can I have $3000 And then at least you're in a position where In email, you can't do that. Now, I know a lot of people, they don't want it's uncomfortable. It is. I'll tell you right now, negotiating is awkward, If you're not used to negotiating every single to you that you're willing to accept the $3000 the pain of trying to sell yourself to them. But I strongly encourage you to go through Have the conversation. You will regret it if you don't, seriously. A lot of jobs that I've gone into. That I've taken at face value or taken a little want to negotiate. I was afraid. I was afraid they might take the job away think I'm all about the money and I want more So, I just took what they were giving me. I mean, literally, within 30 days, I'm like, were hiring other people, just like me, for were making. They told me. I just I felt like a chump because I didn't it. I could have got an extra five thousand or I didn't get it. And I just felt bad. So, I learned early on. And now, if I go in there and I negotiate I'm worth, I try to get market value. I don't try to get more than I'm worth. I just want to be compensated fairly. Now, there's some employers out there that I mean, if you're making $80 thousand and position is 110. We're going to pay you 110. They're not I mean, there are some other employers who really not to their advantage to try to take less than market value, because you're going that. You're going to leave in six months and they're So, that's all I have for today on negotiation. So, for your next interview, talk to them, or Has a salary range been determined for informed decision is whether you want to continue All right my friend. Thats all I have for you today. Good luck in your next interview. Now, before you go on your next review, I I always got a gift for you; the video. Head on over to jobinterviewtools.com/top10 Guide. This has the top ten most common questions Tell me about yourself. Why do you you? It doesn't really go into negotiation; But it does cover the most common questions. And the answers in there are going to help the offer so that you can go in there and All right, my friend, good luck on your next And I will see you in the next video. Bye now.