What fruit do we need to grow What fruit could we grow that I think you have everything. She likes mangoes. But we Avocados, can't grow them As Americans, we're used to just about anything. From tomatoes and But not everything can grow cost. We're next to one of the and that's where the crops You know, they shouldn't be the states, or from over the sitting around and stuff. It should be, you know, The number of farms and what consumption have been on a few decades in the U.S. Instead, what's being grown is livestock feed and ethanol, and oils in highly processed In the U.S., we have nearly a We have a population of just Yet we're not feeding We are wrongly focused on low value crops that are not And then we're counting on with the high value, healthy These staple &quot;commodities,&quot; called, have a special status aid. They fetch top dollars they're cheaper and less At the end of the day, farmers have to do with the land that they decision in terms of what family operation. So why isn't the U.S. prioritizing more of what its what can it do to change It's a chipper apple. It's proprietary to a Locust Most handsome apple we have Chip Kent is a fruit farmer in Milton, New This is his son Sawyer, a Like most U.S. farms, Locust In '24 they planted the And this one. And then the The more than 200-year-old 800,000 pounds of mainly Though Locust Grove did not York State Farms bring in an after all expenses are called net farm income. The farm also operates a in the fall. Locust has to 100 by acquiring other Farms of Locust Grove size U.S. farms. The largest 2% control 42% of New York State saw its farms and acreage in decades, Net farm income is forecast from 2022 record high. That's mainly due to rising crop prices. Specialty crop farmers like record higher incomes on But they're high risk, high volatile and don't get even assistance as commodities to Locust has had to get very diversify and expand. We plan a lot of different with, you know, something We've created more with the pick your own. And if you you get a little lazy, then And then that's when the farm else as a farm or goes off to We could put up some really river here. So it was like We added woodies to our farm. It was 21 acres on the couple of years after that, Locust Grove's main source of City Farmers markets four Some fruit is also sold to Everything else is used by The biggest stone fruit crop Yeah, we had none. The year before. And then we had no plums. Year before. We had a lot of Operational expenses are Some affect specialty crops Fruit and vegetables are and labor intensive. Farm labor costs are expected 60% of what we bring in right The margins on what we had Back in the 80s, you made a it in a bank at 10%. So, you know, and you didn't Competition is another thing harder for American farmers When the North American Free 1994. It lowered prices by availability in American smaller American farms, and returns and higher production more expensive, as farmers increasing costs to As for Locust Grove, the more profitable crops like They're just not suited for The Kents are also unlikely land prices may increase. We just need money, maybe cut reduce our fuel costs, our I mean, that's what's eating We don't want to be know, we also don't want to the bone and not make any One of the most complex yet legislation is the farm Bill. It's been passed about every impacts everything from what living. A big part of it which help low income The last one passed in 2018 More than $30 billion went to commodities in the form of They help farmers deal with and natural disasters. Over the years, federal crop increasingly favored row wheat, soybeans, and sugar That's always something that largest farms getting the payments. And can that be I think, you know, the tricky what I consider to be small of. We're not a huge farm. We're an average sized farm It's a third generation grandfather. I farm now with there are financial The USDA funds other programs farmers, in part like regional producers to buy school meals. We go into the marketplace and variety of purposes, and most and vegetable production. If you look at the totality think you'll see that there's we've made in specialty crop For more than two decades, the receive the most aid, raking subsidies. Gackle's farm is There are some of those adjustment there to more farms and who should be financial assistance. But, doing that, it would affect The US has been a leader in since the 90s. All of this really is to corporations that profit off exports. The 1996 farm Bill removed which encouraged farmers to demand rather than government Today, the United States production, specifically They're out top agriculture $64 billion in 2023. Corn and soybeans alone of all total farm crop income So why corn and soybeans? They play an important role For one, global meat and that livestock needs to Corn and soybeans are used in over half of Americans' And lastly, they're production, which makes them These same agriculture trade deficit are driving Subsidies are a major driver The foods that the government Those are the foods that are available and more affordable Here in rural America. You know, the economies for communities, our small A lot of that depends on, you able to be profitable and invest back in their Health experts have linked our with the country's growing Fruit and vegetable and despite an increase in rise in imports, less than fruits and vegetables. But Secretary of Agriculture differently. We've seen a significant actually in production of United States. We import 12 months out of the year. But in terms of actually ranchers, our farmers, our productive and they provide this country. And that's an many other nations. The 2018 farm bill expired in Congress has been unable to funding for some programs in faced with increased and fertilizer costs. Agriculture is in serious Input costs have risen they receive for what they The issue here is the farm A big sticking point are Those are the minimum prices commodities like corn, Payments are triggered when number. It's easier for Congress to than it is to Department of Disagreements over the continue to anger activists those who grow specialty tough to meet and hard to The Kents, for example, have We had to put our neck on the we have a loss. And the premiums are They do help offset some close to paying, you know, a We could use a little help. Who's going to grow our food? You really want to buy it all On the other hand, pulling commodities could be producers. The American seeking funding elsewhere if farm bill before January A whole new set of lawmakers I don't think people are of starting all over again. The new administration is legs, if you will, and that's So you're looking at an bill. And they could make big Commodity prices could also years. Not having one in place right programs, but it does create into 2025 and beyond. Farmers already are making made purchasing decisions on The margins are really tight. My father always said, you lot of promises out there. Every single bloom is a We promise that we're going But you never know because Advocates are pushing for a federal resources and crops. Many point to Mexico, vegetable exporter to the US. The country subsidizes much barriers to entry. Its agriculture imports to between the years 2000 and It goes to show you that if farmers are going to grow it how to grow and raise enough But these backwards policies farmers are moving into that where the support is. Mexico's major advantages are availability. The US has could mandate that some allocated for fruit and First of all, there's Large scale production of corn Belt is probably not an It just doesn't fit the It's not something that we We can do it at a small The short growing seasons, winter. Globally, most countries that form of input support, like by lump sum payments. The US could follow that vastly different needs. I think the difficulty there exactly the same, and we're and we're dealing with climate. The USDA announced an grant funding for specialty these crops competitive in assistance could show up in If you look at the totality of think you'll see that there's we've made in specialty crop Other solutions include fruits and vegetables in the commodities overseas. Trade is super important and know, farmers maybe needing resources in a farm bill or So we want to be profitable Farmers are efficient and Vegetable production was up while fruit production was up With less risks and more grow more specialty crops. Once you've acquired and business, it should go It shouldn't have to stop had to sell it. You know, if that's a whole nother story. Now we're up for the make it last.