Why do people think if you deprive yourself grow or that sugar does make cancer grow? Otto Warburg's findings who did a phenomenal reliance on increasing glucose absorption. study this particular thing, right? They. if I cut out the glucose cancer's gone. Welcome to Target Cancer podcast. My name also known as the @theoncdoc on social media, someone that I'm actually pretty upset I didn't Joseph Zundell and he basically, if I'm geeky meaning what happens in the patient. He's oncologists to be able to basically, stay we're so excited to have you. I love your us about the sciencey things, about escape lot of myths, and you and I think, share the Thank you for being here and what got you enigmatic, the cancer process and just kind challenge of humankind. So first of all, just let me thank you for honor. And I also found you a little bit too maybe a little bit too. But the actual, like I think there's really only a few of us trying got me into cancer biology is one, I realized in science, but the main reason that I'm in researcher is because of personal reasons. Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. That's okay. we've got found some more things, but it's just some cancers that are just more stubborn with Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee, the Pulitzer and he kind of shed a lot of light on why challenging because it's not just the properties cancer is known to hijack other cells. Almost our own body kind of repel, our own defenses cancer uses. Also Sandip Patel told us that around some pancreatic cells that probably or eats up the chemotherapy right before you answer that can be captured in an hour on that make some cancer so stubborn. Obviously, makes it grow and get bigger, that's always right? That was a super aggressive feature And then all of a sudden now you want HER2 Why? Because now we can actually attack the Yeah. They actually, they just came out with levels of HER2 receptor expression. Low receptors. is that all of a sudden, like everything we two plus , all of a sudden, and I keep saying breast cancer and you're told you're triple but HER2 negative, you have to go back to forever, for 25, 30, however many years that last summer, and that's why it was a standing And then they tested the drug which is, called We can target it. And so that's some of the, about where we're at. But can, what are two makes cancers some just so stubborn, or what mechanisms? Is it hijacking the immune system? Yeah. So this is gonna be a very complex answer, display on my page especially from a layman's of cancers. Have you read those papers? I ha I've read some of them. Yeah. When you Yeah, exactly. And so they, we've been adapting utilize a very diverse amount of strategies. it's like you said, hijacking immune cells, microbes to kind of. In their particular environment, to grow. Or whether it's not hijacking nearby to grow towards a tumor and continue to supply devoid of oxygen, which is a condition known and environmental contributions whether it's which can help to drive an environment to And that's what, is interesting because I post too, sometimes you're like, oh I've learned to say, what happens when you have a good like gets smarter and Sid, he was like remember, Like he was, kind of speaking to the point will melt away. You need about 300 million if you have a high burden, the chance that to be resistant sometimes will show itself or so, or that's why a lot of comments I would cancer. They just, take care of it 15 months And I was like, there's some merit. I've learned some, I could see how it seems that way, but takes 200 million cells, you're like, oh, the mechanism. But 99.9% of it would, so like they all like, started to shrink up and then see that basically declares itself. But what of are getting smarter. It's not the fact I need to make this target, but what happens about, to block all the blood vessel flow, We use drugs like that, TKIs, bevacizumab, like renal cell carcinoma. And colon cancers. effective to just cut off that blood supply. is that environment around the cancer, either after treatment, if you're blocking it, there's to where the cancer cell doesn't think necessarily, reshape itself or reassemble itself to then in that sense, kind of they do get smarter, environment like a regular cells do. Yeah. So I think a lot of people when they lens that it's a homogenous or simple cellular especially in later stages, they develop kind we start our education, and I think it's the as of cancer as like an evolutionary disease. So a single cancer or a single tumor can develop where the cancer cells are in the tumor. And of, or statuses of how those tumor cells have but also the various components that they growth. Like I said, there are hypoxic cores, that are very low in oxygen. That'll be very to cells on the periphery of the tumor. And chemotherapeutic in the clinic, you'll take is against a specific target on the cancer, cells that evolve in a particular way that they will kind of grow out when you take care So that's often some reasons why we see chemo one way we can combat chemo resistance is multiple mechanisms that might exist in the differently throughout the whole entirety Yeah, and that's interesting that you say lot of people looking at, and I myself usually okay, if I have, 20 lesions or 15, like, why I can't resect 'em all or take 'em all out, they're in different places, then I had lost you can see, but obviously we know that there's called stereotactic radiation or spr rt, where that little colony. And this conversation that means you just oligo means in Latin, you take care of the primary lesion. But the is still is trying to be formulated to support you said, if 99.99% of it is fallible or basically being stubborn or start to come up, that's if I have a complete response everywhere else, current treatment that they're on, that it's therapy. That seems to work on a lot of the the heterogeneity of it. And I think one way same way that sometimes athletes. They'll Why? Because that makes you bind under oxygen because you have, increased oxygen carrying if they're gonna play us LSU in the south, of times they get in trouble in the fourth in a macro level on your muscles and your way down to a cellular level. Something as Holmes book and they're like, I can tell he's and it was more weathered and that skin was of the sun, like shining on it than obviously or another that, that I think is a little same concept. So anyone listening to this. a macro, large cellular level can do and understand tools that inside the one specific cell that Yeah. Now one thing I'm gonna ask you about, because and poised. This is the thing that's gotta it unravels me, and I'm glad you said it so bro. You don't eat sugar and you're not gonna I, I've gotten humbled on social media cause desiring to know things. And they're like take that any day. Yeah. But the two things inflame a little bit, are no sugar diets and with the sugar diet. I'm not gonna ask you I say it is if I give you no calories, like Yes, your cancer cell died, but so did you. to like, have viability of life, but I'm gonna is that a myth? Why did that come about? Why sugar that the cancer won't be able to grow Yeah. Yeah this actually makes my blood boil actually changed a lot in terms of my messaging to try and understand where this argument pissed off. I'm like, how can people think simple. And so going back to the meat and about it and I just started asking people, this was coming from. And I actually, I think from people's misinterpretations of Otto Warburg's of interesting to you and I because we've a variety of different fuel sources to contain of just utilizing carbohydrates. So I believe findings, who, he received the Nobel Prize kind of establishing this tumor metabolism on increasing glucose absorption. People have early findings of seeing how glucose uptake the Warberg effect oddly, named after him. this out of effect and extrapolated it in now it, it's kind of easy from somebody who To say, okay, increased glucose absorption sort of reliance on glucose. If I cut out when we look at the literature, especially of time has passed and we know that glucose saying this somewhat wrongly, but a means glucose absorption might be an increase or pancreatic cancer as an example, to increase as a means of stimulating glutamine increase there's mutations of enzymes in the cytric in some cancers, like one of the cancers that is a means to an end. And I believe that a of Otto warburg's finding back in the 1920s. Yeah, you're exactly right. That's what I, back where, where does that. Let me, the simple I'm oversimplifying it for a PhD. But... you have to. There were, and you feel too, like there's not in just, not just for like cancer stuff prevent, I know is is a difficult word, but but one thing, at least when it comes to exercise up, like you have to have a certain amount 300 pounds of muscle are gonna be less than this unregulated colony of cells or these of him as like the venom, like from Spider-Man. in the day when I was a child. I still don't, the Raphael or one of these you just think ninja turtle. That's what cancer cells are they need to break grow. They're unregulated, therefore, just like that what bodybuilder may have an increased glucose like requirement meter can't reach a like zero. If we got labs, sure. If you like didn't have sugars, then requires cancer cells too. And that's why looking at that. The PET scan is showing things of glucose. Not exactly, but basically, and why the brain, which is always hot, right. Like a cancer cell and uses a lot of glucose is being. It lights up on a PET scan. Yeah. And this is actually something that I've tried have misinterpretations due to just what a of glucose which when it's absorbed by cells, to some extent, especially your brain. Very tissue. So technically in a PET scan, everything that patients see from a PET scan is something the background noise from every cell in your the cells that are glowing a little bit more where the tumors are. So those final images But at the core of it, all cells in your body utilizing image processing methods to try where the cells that are utilizing glucose So I think, and.. Not every skin, not every like cancer is pet a lot of prostates won't be avid even though same with some renal cell cancers, kidney Really overall is how we started this podcast, and properties and that's why, the book that the Term A Cure for Cancer. And it sounds I think that's great. Because it is not, it's not a, it will never a consolation of things and it'll be different. A technical cure. Right? Exactly. Yeah, exactly. A technical anyone listening, and again, like you, I've At first, you're just like, oh no, that's, You're like, people just want to know things Yeah. That we're not even gonna tackle the alkaline explained in the acidity of your stomach and is crazy because our kidneys constantly are acid based levels are changed. So just like altitude or anything else that the water we or thwart that process. Our kidneys, I think, smart they are and what they do for us. Yeah, a hematologist and they also regulate how Yeah, that's right. I'm a little biased. That's on the kind of use and energy of cells and of dynamically acclimate and change and have which we're affecting with treatments, in What do you like to kind of talk about that? on kind of what may enable a cancer cell to Believe it or not, actually I just recently specifically testing by specific antibody. the immune system, one thing that we commonly reduce the total amount of receptors that surface to kind of hide from them. And this is immune cell evasion. And so they'll reduce and that's how they can continue growing. from a technical mechanistic perspective is of tumor cells to kind of guide the immune even innate immune components like dendritic cells to kind of boost and I say this somewhat you utilize a lot of immunotherapies. Earlier is anti PD-1 to target this receptor that important adaptive immune cell component within by utilizing an antibody therapy or an immunotherapy called PD-L1 on cancer. Actually, I might it cancer cells that have PD-L1 and cells? Yeah. Anyways. And they reflect that interaction Exactly. So but what you're talking about you're saying you're recognizing like, whereas evade. You're saying some cells actually take shady like a red flag and they're actually, you are talking about bispecifics, you're that's unique to the cancer cell, presumably then it's carrying with it chemotherapy. Correct. Exactly. Yeah. It can either be unique like of specific metabolic changes that kind of that make it to the surface of the cancer design antibody-based therapies to target a tumor antigen. Or like you mentioned, and they'll reduce the total level of expression different ways to to target those cancer cells. Yeah. For sure. The suppression signal. And I think, you are one of the best people at things, this is a big one for me. , that test it in mice, there is a difference on really good example I had with the previous feel bad, Ian Walters, I think. When you take a dish or basically you know, outta somebody's could sprinkle like fairy dust or the drug at it in six to eight weeks, it's oh my gosh, or the therapy that we had worked. But what's happening is you now. Basically to the innate, which means like just inherent that stuff. Also that we take for granted errors a day and our immune system's constantly the fairy dust or if it was the actual, like the fairy dust, I the immune system. So there's with what happens to that cancer. Versus, that cancer existed in the mouse beforehand know that it's escaped the immune system. media about how these studies come out and I saw this article and whatever. And it's, short amount of time. Yeah. Yeah. So one of the things that I've actually, is reference my own. My thesis project one to me, it was actually showing that the things in our, in a very good mouse model of a type cell carcinoma. Now specifically in ovarian often highly expressed. And one specific protein It's frequently mutated and lost due to a and it's an epigenetic modulator, so it regulates this massive complex, ARID1A is part of this And so in my thesis work, I discovered that response that, normal cells also use for sustaining cancer cells utilize this stress response because it turns out this massive complex response when cells get too stressed. So it's in cancer cells. So they suppress this stress you have increased amounts of the stress response that losing this particular protein increased that with small molecule drugs. I saw this was move this into a mouse model where we very physiologically matches what patients develop really large inter traversal tumors of nasty ascites formation. So the abdomen And we found that when we inhibit this particular our in vivo mouse models, that we see a significant So basically you're like you're suffocating. that takes place in the cell to have to like tempering that process, right? Yeah. Because it's already been un enveloped or that would otherwise keep it calm, like it's one of its actual neoplastic or malignant whoa. Let's go ahead and put the brakes on They're like they're very loyal cells. They like, they have a self detonated button. That say, Hey, I know that if something looks awry, say. I need to go out. I'm injured. I shouldn't basically saying this protein, that sense try too hard to overcome this because we may then how you're re-enabling it. And that's And I hope anyone listening can hear how that's Yeah, our lab I was in The Zhang Lab at Wistar. But he, I was in his lab and his whole lab serous ovarian cancer and just ovarian clear his lab. Countless research articles upon was there, within the five years we published metabolism by glutamate inhibition. There's actual name for it. It's CB-839 is the chemical a little bit different. So.... we have different or yeah, glutamate metabolism associated with this thing called the ER stress response being grade Cerus cancers there's a DNA methylate found ways to inhibit that. So there's a variety type will utilize to just, sustain its growth. usually. Hundreds due to cancer cells, literally to survive in a particular environment. And and try and calm things down, so to speak. Yeah. And a lot of times they do a shotgun stress shotgun 20. And then you just don't So how do you account for all 20? Yeah. And of course a lot of these tools are the I had a podcast with Cliff Reid who has this he's we recognize it's complicated, right? basically has the thing where you take the say in ovarian cancer. , the IDs you mentioned. tubes and then puts a control group. And these over there overnight, then they all start die, and then lose their mass. And he puts are all like FDA approved and he cal, they an accelerated mass change or delta, like Yeah. More than the control group. Yep. Then there's some intracellular calamities, stuff that says it's probably gonna be tumor 90, 95% consistent rates with that. And that's like the, know every tool, but that's an actual And whatever the case may be, you can already the different ways to think about it. Yeah. Again, that's called Travera and I thought phenomenal way to screen for specific drugs they are FDA approved, then you find, given particular is decreasing the overall mass You get it. You can begin to determine the overall mechanism And you can fast track it into treating that, one strategy which will make cancer therapies important. It is. And that's, it's 72 hour turnaround. Yeah. So like at least I have an... Whereas right hope they respond. So it's literally like like usually cytotoxic poison ish like chemo so like it, it basically could revolutionize different kind of creative ways like that. they recreate the cancer based on that molecular avatars and then they just expose them to takes six months and they see what kind of mid gut in whatever it is to try to mirror of science on and all I've discovered all a platform. That I know the CEO, Mika pretty accessibility is like what you are doing, these antibodies. The only way we know you in vivo, which means okay in something that's least it has other circumstances. When those then you try it on a patient because you know whether it's new, whether you're using it is a trial and the only way to be able to Yeah. And it's, that's one thing I always than they were 25 years ago when we literally a human die or not. And then it's okay, they two. Now it's, it's just so much more specific. talk about. Medicine has advanced amazingly. I have a good friend too that that just got and I don't know if you're familiar with this at ways to encode or recode the portion in to be able to like CRISPR and all that technology predispositions you have genetically. So these this MSH one and six and all that stuff. What, chance of cancer when these things are erroneous? I think they're even enzymes that are associated these enzymes, which is commonly seen as a it's a somewhat rare disease that they have like colorectal cancer. I actually have a of this is they'll develop polyps associated over time. So pretty much anyone who has this have a really high likelihood for developing those polyps are kind of sustained inflammation way to put it. Intestines in the colon, sustained is very complicated, but it's sustained meaning And so one of the ways that a lot of people as a component of these mutations or these and causing inflammation within the gut is increasing the overall amount of fiber that friend, Consumes Metamucil religiously, which non fermentable fiber, specifically non fermentable. the gut. People who have irritable bowel disease of fiber you have can reduce the overall amount have within the gut or Lynch syndrome. Yeah, and so with Lynch syndrome, like you aren't able to like, they're deficient. So repair for the mismatches. And you might say why you end up having these kind of polyps . But one huge silver bullet we have now for is, a similar thing is immunotherapy. And I would say six, eight months ago now, where cancer all like vanished. Yeah. And that's The New England Journal medicine study? Was It was 12 patients. But the key factor was their mismatch repair proteins. They were that make 'em uglier? And that the fact that they're gonna be really ugly, aggressive tumors. your immune system recognizes. So that's why one we talked about earlier, can have very Yeah. The way I say it is if you're walking past, clean the house and you make sure everything's briskly, and that air makes a big dust ball You're like, oh my gosh. Like I, I promise looks, and it's basically something is envisioned the same way where immunotherapy sometimes very effective in, it's like all of a sudden and see it, and then it goes and actually The problem was it was disguised or it was part of where things are headed is like it's take care of every last cell. Yes. Like they did not. Obviously there's a lot of sensitivity what we can say is there are things happening still giving it and we're just. Can we now The good one, the cure word. And should we totally changed after we were able to highlight Yeah. Things like that. So it's just, it's basically, Yeah. I studied CLL for a long time too. That's first lab that I that I got into, we studied perspective. I'm kind of immunology trained, a biochemist. We studied all the signaling how I got into the endoplasmic reticulum stress as B cells differentiate from naive B-cells increase the surface area of the endoplasmic of antibodies that they can make. And so one leukemia, is that these patients will often only produce one type of antibody. And this significance MGAs? Yes. You might have even heard that too. And it need to utilize the ER stress response to surface area enzymes and transcription factors to increase the surface area of the ER to loader or antibody load. And so we, when we patients you're essentially affecting the into plasma B cells to kind of be, exert their So one characteristic of CLL is a very swollen assessed whether or not our therapy was working, patients, the spleen will enlarge and ridiculous. and, you, you have a tiny spleen in a mouse, scale that up to what happens in a human being I went off on a tandem there, kind of extrapolate can be and how various cells will utilize different cancers to support this particular in multiple contexts. No I love it. And that's, it brings an important podcast yet, but I tell my patients all the it's MGUS or monoclonal gammopathy.... Or, but it's called monoclonal, B-cell, lymphocytosis. B-cell and not enough of them. MGUS or that aberrant or screwed up B-cell. Oh, you have that are antibody mediated, like inflammatory that you would see a rheumatologist for or a spinoff or secondary to having a clonal And all my lectures are residents and all myself, I got, excited about a vitiligo with I'm like, maybe it'll get better. And she's she probably didn't have cll cause I was diagnosed about people that usually have this MGOs or stuff, and when you can just attack those steroids, pulse it or do it weekly, and then that's why we use rituximab and rheumatology with IP and stuff. What you're doing is bringing turning on, turning, having a.. But not playing like pushing him all down because he's three You have analogies for things. I love it. Thank you. I just, it's cuz I just like a What's that? I think it's a great way to learn. It's good teach people too. Yeah. Just helps cuz they'll to remember the jargony mechanistic details it, something that people are more likely I, my professor Dr. Juneja told me the whatever remember it and relate it to the exact mechanism. Yeah. And patients especially they get more hey, this is the five page list of all the and type one diabetes. Yeah. But then you're like, then you're like, but this is why we're doing it. Yeah. And all you're like, I get it. I get, I see why it's but it's actually like, makes sense and sensible. like to go by Dr. Joe? Dr. Like what is your Actually just have people call me Joe? Just Yeah. Kind of personal. Just because I like to kind me for the information that I put out and have 'em call me Joe. Obviously I have a handle people not to call me doctor all the time, The real question is, do you drink Joe? Do Every damn day. Are you kidding? Oh, good. coffee. Yeah. There was a big study that, oh, it's bad for your... basically the phyto-gens beans, decaf, or caffeinated, doesn't like their heart and there was a 25% less incidence forward three to five cups a day versus people Interesting. One out of five. Yeah. 20% increased survival 25% less anything cardiac related. Less death of what they say is the, I don't know if it's Is it like that? That was a big one. That's Is it adaptogens? Or It could be phytochemicals. That's what was the last one? Phytochemicals. the surface that apparently are very productive. the, and all that stuff that comes. They're fat. I'm like, that's not the coffee that Coffee. Yeah. It's hard to weed out the specific characteristics the best output for preventing cancer. Another this, that I recently read I'm on the NCI published study showed that people who had risks not only for cancer, but pretty much stated they don't know the direct contributors, coffee thing where people who tend to drink they have a reduced risks for a variety of And that's true, true totality or decreased. Which is different than caffeine. That's the Yeah. Yeah. Alright, Joe, we enjoyed it. Is Any pearls of wisdom that relating to anything? material. Yeah. The only thing that I can say, especially where you get information on your disease Because while people may be well intending always don't always have the credentials or particular disease like cancer. And just because.. Especially with supplements. Yeah, and just because you have a mouth doesn't if you have an opinion. So be very careful trusted professionals like myself and Dr. But it is. Yeah, it's tough. It's calling We try and give people tips to to be able Yeah, the more we learn in medicine, I think, really this hard to beat just the natural in oh, go get it, need it cuz it's natural. darn good job with things. Yeah, mother Nature and if we try to quanously, change the system of vitamins, again, someone may mean but my dumb for not doing something. That's a red Absolutely. There must be something there because most tier that, and some of which I've talked on just don't know. We just it's it because it's we know the problems with proactive. Yeah, and it's obviously, it's definitely one thing that will tell you who's an expert say, I don't know. They're trying to be honest into buying some supplements. So I think that's to. Yeah. Awesome. Thank you Joe. We appreciate Yeah. Thanks again for having me. And it was