- Bez, have you recovered from the other day? - I'm not over it. had a very, we had a very strange and traumatic and it's still in my head. I'm still thinking Is that over-exaggerating? - I think...It might probably the scariest thing that's ever happened lucky. But we're only 26, so I'm sure we might have terrible things. So far, this is So we had some... - This is pathetic. This is some intruders... - Intruders in the house. - So right? I had, I had dinosaur-shaped cereal, and I said, &quot;Oh, lover of mine, I'm gonna go to you're going to the toilet. - Probably. And I went I felt what I thought was like a huge moth. I I'm not scared of moths. You're really scared of of... Just to... Just to set the scene, I'm scared butterflies, birds, bats, uncontrollable movement. in your face. - Yeah. - So I opened the past my face. And it, like, skimmed, I it went so quick. - Horrible. Horrible. - &quot;That's just a huge moth.&quot; And then I looked, So it's down the corridor. And it flew right window. - Yeah, it did, like a thud. Bang. - And &quot;That moth is huge,&quot; because that was such a &quot;I'm going to have to, like, get this dead moth into your window... - And hit the window, and look into the office down the corridor, and I see A bird. And it had landed on my keyboard and was brain just went to freeze. - 'Cause you're scared And I just don't like the idea of holding an my goodness.&quot; And then I just screamed. And it It wasn't dead. - I didn't, I don't think, I I heard you say... - I went, &quot;Oh, my God!&quot; I really saying anything. And it was alive, and it I went, &quot;There's a bird. There's a bird. There's this bird in my office, and my whole brain was do? They're so hard to get out of the house.&quot; hard? Is that an infamous thing? - Well, I think and they're so hard to catch. And it's ooh. - damage the wing! - ... my friend had a budgie and out once. - That's a nightmare to get back maybe 8 years old, and it was flying around as scary as this... - 'Cause it continues. flappy, this is your worst nightmare probably and the idea of one being in the house, worst to you with fear in your eyes, and I'm just like, And you're like, &quot;What?&quot; And we literally looked do? What do we do?&quot; I think we said that like do you do? - We were like 'What are we supposed adults and the people who aren't children like &quot;You just go in there. You open the window and you out.&quot; And that's what would be the logical thing. - So then we, we were downstairs for about and we kept hearing it. - Our students, we 15 minutes. So we canceled with our students, of course. And then we, we, we landed on the were just determined not to. - I would never... you're scared of dead animals. So the equivalent go and pick up this dead mouse or something?&quot; - thing... - So of course, insert picture, insert yeah, it might be. - Oh! Yes it is, yes it is. to add more context. We kept hearing it repeatedly &quot;It's going to kill itself. So you kept putting it to die.' That was stressing me out because I was here. I've got to go now. It's time-sensitive.&quot; but it wouldn't die cleanly. So it would die, it kind of in pain. Horrible, horrible. - So ticking clock here 'cause it was only, I'll which makes us look ridiculous 'cause it's height of this mug. - It wasn't like a huge So I then decided, okay, okay, I was like but I don't want it to touch my skin.&quot; So I like this, put my hood up, face mask on, gardening but then I got a tray, like a food tray to be a me like this. So, I thought if it flaps, it won't turned the corner. It gets worse, guys. I turned birds. - Two birds. And I just went, &quot;There's chances? Because I would say it's... - Insane. - I will have a bird in their house in their life. - extremely rare to have two, two's mental. - Two at they flew in from was only open about that big. maybe that. - It wasn't big at all. So, but, two just checking the time. I'm so bored, um, had fact that two, my theory is one of them got and its lady friend or its boyfriend decided know, maybe. - Either or, we've now got two birds picture of Sean Connery in your office, and the Sean Connery. - And it was insane 'cause now it's there's one bird. Make sure...&quot; There's two now. flying, and we, yeah, we saw them flying around. &quot;What do we do? What? There's two. There's two themselves is now doubled 'cause there's two. So we can see them through the window. - And it was your house and see two, two little birds. - It on like my window ledge like this and I'm like, house?&quot; - It was crazy. - They just 'doo doo doo thing that I hated was them, kept throwing much 'cause I was like, &quot;They're going to die and open the window.&quot; So we literally just I was, I was stumped. - I was so stressed. Then I saw a van parked outside the neighbour's and has a normal, serious job like this will your, why is that the assumption? - Because we are can sit down and we can teach people English, but two birds in the house, we are totally, totally a man who was doing painting for the house next two blue tits in our house. Can you come? And no issue. He was like, &quot;Whatever.&quot; He went &quot;Hello. Hi,&quot; like so nice to them. - So weird. tea towel and just gently picked them up and just everywhere. They pooed on my chair. They pooed on that's the nightmare. - Which I'm still going to it? - It's only a tiny bit. I mean, they won't was just traumatising. My heart has never beat you're lucky then that's the, if that's the most two friendly birds have been in your office... - was just insane, wasn't it? We couldn't believe minutes still now, and that was, and that was over the sight of when I turned the corner and this, like sort of fluttering, and I was like, That's a bird. That's a bird!&quot; - I remember my up, like a bathroom. - That's good! 'We had in did you call it? An outhouse? - Yeah, a toilet inside. - Well done! - But it was a kind of, it and it just stayed there. - Yeah. Yeah. I believe there was no plumbing inside at the time. - Yeah, yeah, and so there was an outside toilet. I don't know when I was maybe 10, 11 maybe I'm misremembering, but I believe in the toilet. - That's the stuff of nightmares, like a Stephen King novel. - I'd have to ask my it was horrible. - Yeah, awful. But, yeah, that dead. It's a 'you' job. I'm not touching it. a job that you could never do because you're enough to do. It's not like I'm scared of birds. think that will be an experience that will... - would you be a little bit more... - I'd be a and I'm, we're terrified of opening that window which is weird. - 'Cause I'm just, there's no way dead animals. So have you and you're scared of then you hear a *squish*, a squelch. - Yeah, I think. - Yeah, I think I would faint if, maybe have you ever... - That's such a funny sight, your fears, two birds flying around and you're Toons with like the two birds flying around here?&quot; &quot;There were two tiny little bluetits I can see birds outside the window now. Horrible. we need them. - They're lovely when they're in the it was the contrast of, 'you shouldn't be in here' causing chaos by flapping around, that, I didn't a bit sick afterwards. So have you ever stepped from? - No, I think I, near, I nearly have. I do something, and I nearly did. And I remember happened. So I'm okay looking at pictures it's not like a hobby. But if I think there's a a little bit more of a thing for me now. Now gosh, yeah. That really wouldn't, that would not um, it's so funny 'cause I've been telling all as I'll call it. And all of them, like, these no, no. I'm just worried about this cable. Your be all right. Um, if it's not, I'm sure we'll I tell them about the bird, and they'll be like Why? I wouldn't be scared. Why were you scared?&quot; I game. - Girl I taught she just went, &quot;Oh, don't be silly.&quot; She said, &quot;Don't be daft.&quot; I'd love to see it if you've got two birds in your see it. People think that, and then everyone I've &quot;I think I'd be okay. I think I'd be able to go it's never happened to them. - They can walk the but can they walk the walk? - Yeah. And I say in your house?&quot; They go, &quot;No.&quot; Like hmmm. 'Cause before on this podcast, if you'd have said, what would you do?&quot; I would be telling you, &quot;Oh, when it's there and I'm face and I can see them in couldn't walk in the room. I couldn't bring myself stressing me out. That's what did it. - Yeah, Laura... - Go on. - ... I mean, we that bird... - Well it's worth it, that was a absolutely. We've got some 'have you ever' questions. Um, I ask some of these to my students to practise present perfect tense. - Good. Here's a good one, Laura. - Go on. - Have you but not my fault. The teacher made me do it. I got the highest mark 'cause... it was the French French oral is you had to pre-write an essay of things like, in English, it would be like, 'My friends. Sometimes I like...' just like a typical teacher could check it and be like, 'Oh, that's you couldn't take it with you. You had to memorise because that's, that's just a memory test. be better if it was more like a conversation, but French for two minutes. And obviously, you had 'Okay, we'll be fine.' And the way they did to interrupt, if you went on a tangent and just written...? - Oh, I'm sure you'd be fine, yeah. be... okay. - No, no, no. That's he's helping you out. - Okay, carry on. - So, we're going to do it is you walk into the room.&quot; will give you your um... You give me your planned it here just so I know what you're supposed to and I will voice, we're going to record a really old-fashioned recorder thing. - Yeah examiners. And then you get your exam back.&quot; and then he gave it back to me and said, &quot;Just reading it.&quot; And I was like, &quot;All right.&quot; So, I grammar is correct, everything's perfect. I got to there so it'd be like, &quot;Uh, je m'apppelle Laura, - Yeah, so you're making it sound very natural. why did he do that? Because he...? the pressure on schools is that, you need to, their students; otherwise, they'll have, you it's probably better for him just to go, I know she can. She's good. So I'm just going to make it easy for her.'&quot; - Interesting. - I... oh, have I? There was a, at university, Voice, like voice classes? - Yeah, yeah, and voice. - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - and... - Oh, with all the phonetics? - It was ridiculous. - Yeah, I hated that. Um, we did, like, an exam, didn't we, or a text? alphabet. - Yeah, it was weird. So we...we and I did not have a desk. I had this music stand. right? - So, you were taking your test on a stand? stand. It was weird, yeah. - for exam-taking. - Yeah, it was weird. two hours before or an hour before to practise and realised that what I could do is I could write whatever it was, on the music stand, and then pencil and then rubbed out, in the shining of the - That's really good. - So, I did that, and on the calculator exam. So, in...I don't know if we have two maths exams. There's a calculator exam harder, but you have a calculator. Um... and the calculator one, by the way. You know the first, I'd still be doing it on the calculator. just to be sure. Um. And I did the same I wrote, like, things out on my calc- on the um... - The plastic cover that goes over the top. of course, it would look very fishy if I went, obvious. So I just had it out in the open on the kind of try and catch the light, like... there? Like your COS and your SIN and TAN? - So, yes, I have. Both... - So you know what won't mention her name. 'Cause, you know, rude. on her legs, and then she wore tights, black you can see through. You can see skin. So on with all the things written on her legs... just like pull it tight and just go like... what you're looking for. 'Cause if you've just there like... 'Where did I put that thing?' exam... - Yeah and it must look so obvious, like where's that thing?' I never did that, but I when we took exams in school. And you remember, it to us that if your phone goes off in an exam, they void all your exams that you're going to take. - of course, it is because they can't do that happen. But I remember, like, doing an exam, and back. And I remember hearing my ringtone. It someone else's. But it was also my one. - What like, the... - Crazy Frog or something... - Yeah, that everyone had? - There was um *sings* - And Um...I was just taking the exam, to my feet when I heard that. 'Cause I just terrifying. 'Cause I was really scared of um, 'Cause we were told that you only had to write remember which one it was, black? - Yeah. Um...and on, like, the first GCSE exam, take in the UK when you're, like, 16, 15, 16. - and, you know, did it, and then left the exam. yeah, I didn't have a black pen. So I just did it we all knew, surely, it will be okay because they photocopy your exam, they don't actually send blue pen, it doesn't come up. - The computer can't him up about it. And we were like, We, we milked He was so stressed. - I bet he was. I bet. making people stressed about silly things. - Well, is awful. Let's do another one. - Yeah, well, yeah interesting one. Have you ever eaten horse meat? scandal. - TESCOs, Tescogate. - It wasn't it wasn't TESCO, it was FINDUS. - Oh yes. - Was to get a libel. But there was a scandal, and that, yeah, they...- It was something like 70% was horse meat, but it was sold as... It was like the UK, they got revealed it was horse meat, but I So, don't think I have. But, yeah, meat's a weird between eating a cow and horse? But something I don't... - I don't think I'd like to eat horse, going, &quot;Have you tried horse? Oh, so nice.'&quot; it's because they're just useful for us. - That's them for other reasons. - We need, yeah. - That's are tasty are already established. - Have you seen the line?&quot; And there's like a - About there. that. So, there's like a chicken, there's like a sheep. - And then a dog. -...and then it goes line? What you eat? - There. - About there. Yeah. there is, of course - I'm not going to eat a dog, Laura? - Go on. - Have you ever swum in the ocean? don't like it. - You don't like it? You had a good beach; I don't like the ocean, which is a very but I talk to a lot of people every day who Brazil and Italy and Spain, and they say, &quot;Oh, the beach. I hate it. I think it's because it's, I don't like sand, and I don't like salty beach. - Like Anakin Skywalker. I don't like sand. you. - It's coarse, dry... - gets everywhere. -... have a lovely day, and then people try to make down,&quot; and then you're sat down. &quot;Oh, it's a bit to get the sand off, and, &quot;Does anyone want some the food, and you've got sand on your fingers, and because you've been eating food. - And then the your mouth. - And then it's like 'ooh, ooh'. And feet gets all sandy, so you can't put your shoes have to try to dry your feet and then very quickly foot back down on the sand. - Without putting your then, and then, &quot;Oh, the ice- anyone want any there. So, one person goes over the sand. - Yeah, on. You get about four ice creams. And then you you've got your ice cream, it drips a little bit you got to wipe it with? This towel that's also now I've just got sandy ice cream on me. And where Lovely. I'd love to wash my hands in the dirty It's not relaxing when you're a kid. It's nice; I fundamentally hate the beach. - Wow, I mean, swimming in salty water because it gets in your my eyes 'cause I al- 'cause, you know, you've got and that's awful. And then your skin feels awful I, awful. - Yeah. - Give me a pool, an outdoor agree with you and I'm just gonna be the Devil's you feel more connected with nature. The swimming me. - I don't know. - Detach me away. - But you in other ways. I love a lovely walk in the Grass is great. - Grass, right, yeah. - I love never gone camping? - No. - No. - No. - Never. is just not my thing. I can swim in the sea. the sea's always way too cold. It's never that was quite satisfying. But because it was fish, loads of fish, beautiful to look at. I you had to get in and swim with them. - And do you or was I...? Because there was about 10, 15, up the courage to get in the sea. - You don't we'd stopped the boat and there was an island. yeah, I've swam and I'm on this Greek island.' Surely not. - No, I made you go in first 'cause there treading water for twenty minutes while scared of the sea. - You don't like the sea. you drop your anchor down. - Parked. - But near to the shore, so you had to park it quite like something like 30 m. - Because of rocks, ridiculous. - Well I didn't want to break were really far away. We were really far away! &quot;Laura, we can definitely get a bit closer.&quot; But and then swim to the beach. - How, how far do I think I was swimming for about a minute and know what that means. - Well, imagine, imagine imagine, okay, imagine you're watching a race, a running track. It's the furth- like the... that's not far. - 100m. - What are you on about? further than that. - It was about that distance. further. - Either or, I thought, 'this will be the whole swim like this, 'Oh my god,' - Because I'm scared of the sea, it was horrible. - Yeah. the shore... - Yeah. Did I reach there before 'Right you swim...' - And did, so you did watch in about after you'd been swimming for about the way to the shore. And then, what did Sorry! - I swam all the way to the beach, and I, I'd been... - Like you'd just swum the channel? into the sea. - Like Tom Hanks in Castaway? - exhausted. - You swam for like a minute. - And I slowly. And, oh, it was painful. Onto the beach, Yeah, because I thought, &quot;Well, I'm already wet.&quot; then you could see the the rocks, like the rocks of water. So, if you ever go to Greece, around that's so funny. I love that story. You're just, And then we had to swim back. - Yeah, but I swam sure I was like, &quot;It's okay, you're doing it. more? - Let's do one more - 'Cause we've been round up with one more. - Have you ever fainted? situation because I want to know what it feels you have. - Yeah. - Where did you faint? - And podcast, I will, I will repeat my story for you, maybe 17 years old, 18, 17. And I, my, my parents about half past 8. Yeah. And I caught the bus at 10 to 8. So... And I used, you know, I was very Normal day. Had my breakfast. I felt absolutely shower, just felt really light-headed. And I, my, off the floor. - Giving way? - Yeah, giving way. have hit my head. I must have done. It was like a and I, I landed on the floor. And then I just for a long time. And then I woke up, and the water yeah. And then I, and then I got up. - How long shower. The house was empty. - Everyone had left. she was in sixth form. No, I don't know where she parents had gone to work. They must have just but then I was locked in the house. But I thought, a day off here. Not my fault. Funny story.&quot; But driving teacher, my driving instructor. And with this guy, and he was cross. And the, the, the and then we had a driving lesson. And then, I would end up back at home. And I texted him, this happened... - &quot;I'm locked in!&quot; - ... I don't know if I said I'm locked in my house. really sorry. I'm really sorry. And he was not &quot;I'm coming to your house.&quot; - Oh, wow. - And he'll I panicked 'cause I thought &quot;I can't miss another what would you do? What would you do, &quot;I don't know what you want me to do. I that he was going to, like, knock on my door &quot;What do you want me to do? I'm locked in. Do you situation. - You wanted to miss the confrontation. I'm scared of lots of things. So, what I did was out of and get out of the house was on the window. And I thought, &quot;Well, there's a bit of was the second floor of a house. So how high sure people can picture a second floor. - jumped out of the window. Um, I jumped out the did. - My legs were, like, really shaking and, lesson. And because my legs were weak, the... - he was getting cross with me regardless, and I be in this class.&quot; Anyway... - &quot;I fainted a day. - We ended up back at my house. But of And I just had to sit outside my house for about And then the story I gave them was that I just, well, my, my day finished early, and I just, I, I if you're listening to this, that's what happened. What, what does it feel like when you faint? Does felt like, you, genuinely, it just felt like I it once. I want to experience it when I'm right but I haven't, I've never fainted. So, let's hope you go. Sorry about that long story. - No, it's carry - shall we have some lunch? It's lunchtime, have for lunch? - Oh, I'm going to have a salmon fancy. - It's nice. - Beans on toast for me. - Oh, one of my other fears, baked beans. - Well, there beans that I've got are not very nice. They were beans so much. I hate beans so much. So, enjoy for joining me. - Thank you very much. - See