- You're gonna learn my top five tips for making friends as an adult. And maybe you can relate to Making friends used to When I was still in school, every semester my teachers would assign us to group projects. I'd meet people that way. I'd end up seeing people in You start talking to those people, you'd walk to the next class together, you'd grab lunch maybe after a class, maybe you form a study group. And before you know it, Every semester the whole with a whole fresh batch of new faces. Schools have sports teams and clubs you can join. You're surrounded by potential friends. After school my situation totally changed. I moved to a new town and I drive to work and back and only saw the same 10 I realized that I hadn't met a new person in about six months. The social connections that I was making had a shrunk by about 90%. In fact, I moved a couple And I'm outgoing, I'm an extrovert, but it was still really hard but I set out to try. I wasn't attempting to They say, if you have even consider yourself fortunate. So I'll share my journey as and it's up to you to adapt these tips, to fit your own situation. First, bloom, where you're planted. This means you have to commit to making new friends where you are. If you're moving to a new a new job, you have to go If you haven't recently Make friends with the people who are already right around you. This is about proximity. One of the main variables that determines who is how geographically close you are. You're more likely to who are already near It's much easier to meet up and spend time with people who are in your community versus on the other side I mentioned this tip because when we find ourselves in a new situation, many of us will hang onto our old life or spend more time on social media. So it's natural to miss old friends and it's fine to stay in touch. But we're talking about making new friends and that has to happen face to face. You have to say to yourself and signal to others that Otherwise, you'll be You'll also be sending mixed signals to potential new friends. My wife and I became friends who was new here in town and they were awesome. But they were always talking about the place that they used to live and their desire to So we became friends with them but I wasn't too surprised to see that they were struggling They were essentially telling everybody that they were just passing through. People may not be as willing to make room for you in their lives if they sense upfront that you're gonna leave either way. In contrast, my wife and I also and one of the most common are you going to stay here? And we'd say, yes, that's our plan. We came in with the attitude that you have to bloom and commit to where you are. We told ourselves that we had to make investments Proximity is the key. Make friends with people boom where you're planted. Second, you have to put yourself You're not going to make new friends, just sitting in your apartment, waiting for people to knock on your door. This is about proximity as well. You have to put yourself so you have at least the If you already have the it's important to put yourself out there to spend time with the That means you have to take make a call, and make some plans to get together. Put yourself out there. If you're looking for brand new friends, another way to put yourself out there and meet new people is You'll likely be invited at work with a small group. You'll see an email about or a flyer or social media some kind of social element you should accept all Many years ago, I moved to Los Angeles and I knew nobody. I was pretty homesick and I just moped around. I even said no to a few I said to myself, you don't know anybody, you're gonna feel awkward. Well, of course you don't know anybody, you're brand new in town. So I changed my approach. I said to myself, Alex you're going to accept for the next couple of months, even if it sounds a little boring. I said, &quot;Yes&quot;, and went to three or four I said yes to almost every I started noticing flyers, almost everywhere to see I started saying yes and I started meeting new people all of whom were potential friends. The truth is I'm shocked at how many people even when they wanna make friends. A few years ago a guy I know, I heard didn't really have any friends. So a couple of my buddies and I invited him to join us for dinner at this awesome Texas barbecue place. And he just flat out He said, &quot;No thanks, I don't Look, we're not gonna beg I honestly think one of the main reasons people don't have friends is they're not seeing that there are good and reasonable invitations out there that they could be saying yes to. So put yourself out there and make up your mind to accept Another way to put yourself There are small groups all around you, they're usually based upon Maybe it's a book club or a gaming group, it could be any type of activity. In addition to proximity, that helps people become Groups are perfect for this because people come for that common interest and then friendships can grow out of that. As I've mentioned, I've moved all over. And I moved to Arkansas years and a magician's club. Groups are always trying and they welcome everybody with open arms. All you have to do is think interests, and activities you already like or that you wanna learn more about and start looking for groups who are doing those kinds of things. Ask around in person or look online. And to clarify, I'm not talking Many groups these days will but they meet in person. Like last year, I wanted and I found a local Every Thursday, this group sailing lessons to new people. And I showed up because I but I've made some new friends because of our shared interest in sailing. Your shared interest, hobbies, activities, instantly give you something to talk about with these other group members. And if you're really motivated then start a group of your own. I have a good friend who I got closer with because he would host He invited me over. He said, &quot;I'm hosting a game in a couple of weeks. Do you want to come?&quot; He was always organizing You don't have to wait around If you're feeling energetic, start your own group and you can be the one to invite others. The point is you have to in every sense of that phrase. Third, as the expression goes, the best way to make This has to be sincere, but it has to do with how you treat people and how you relate. So what does it mean to be a friend? Well, one way is to be There's a lot of takers out there. People who look for ways from other people. They try to get attention, praise, time for their own benefit. Takers are high maintenance, They want to do things their way. I know a guy who only called me when he wanted something. He was never there when I needed something. I know another guy who wants to lecture me and boss me around. He didn't want a friend, he wanted to be in charge. I had a friend a few years ago who always had drama in their life and they would want me and I was supportive. But then I had a bad day one day and I wanted to talk about it, and told me that I was acting like a baby and ended the conversation. Takers drive on a one way street and this is not how friendships work. Real friends are givers. Friendship has to be a two-way street. In conversations and relationships, look for ways that you with your time, energy and attention. I'm friends with several people who are always looking for small ways that they can be of service. They say, I'm gonna go do you want one? They'll say I read this and I thought of you. They say, come on over. Givers demonstrate an with their time and attention and they have the other Another way to be a friend is to take a genuine interest in others. Don't waste time trying to or amazing you are. Get sincerely interested What do people do when and interested? Well, you don't spend time and trying to impress other Instead, get curious, ask questions. I mentioned the importance a lot on my channel because I would estimate ask absolutely no questions. So take the time to Ask them about what they do for work and how that's going? Ask them about where they grew up? Ask them about their If they have a family, Parents love to talk about their kids. Ask them about the kinds of foods, movies and shows they like. When you demonstrate that you're they will naturally become Another way to be a good friend When people talk, give put your phone away, make eye contact. I have a bunch of videos but the bottom line is that good listeners are people magnets. There's an expression out there, listening is love. If you listen completely to other people, you'll never have a lack of friends, they'll come looking for you. One of the best ways to make And as I mentioned, it has to be sincere. The fourth tip is to be on the lookout for any common ground People really perk up when they find out you So as you ask questions and listen, notice where you have things in common and dig deeper into that. Friendships are grounded in similarity. This could be shared hobbies, shared experiences, shared priorities. I mentioned common ground when we talked about joining groups but common ground is a key way that friends get closer and your friendships will deepen. One of the first things I do, personally, when I'm getting to know for what we might have in common. The more common ground you the more there is to talk And when I notice something I mention it. That means you have to reveal You have to let people get This can feel risky but you have to share I was in a conversation just the other day with someone I already know I found out they had I used to live in Colorado. And I talked about that in the conversation with them briefly. There's one more thing And our faces both lit as we talked about places that The goal is to discover common look for similarities. And one of the main reasons, if you think about it, people explain why they're they'll say, well, we We like people who have common The fifth tip is super practical. Make a list of the three key people that you want to develop friendships with and start investing in those people. This really brings together that we've talked about so far but you wanna look at all the and then narrow that top three people that you will commit to so that you can reach out to ask them to do something When I moved here to where I met a lot of people in that I started attending but these weren't friends yet. They were just acquaintances who I wanted to have potentially So I literally made a list that I sort of knew and a short list of three guys that I wanted to get closer with. They checked off a lot of the boxes that we've been talking about. We had things in common, they lived close enough And I sensed that they were open to getting to know me a little bit more. So I started to invest in those people, by connecting with them more regularly. I'd send them a text every week, I'd ask them how they were doing. If a new movie was coming out, I'd say,&quot; I was planning to any interest?&quot; Honestly, I felt a little I've heard a lot of adults say that. You have to put yourself out there, but you don't know yet if the other person is or interest in making a new friend. And some of those guys were I love Iron Man. Other guys were too busy and that's okay. This is a long term approach. The key is to be really that you want to start hanging At the time I had those three but only one of them turned But over time you meet new people and I would be very intentional and say, I would like to become And I'd start reaching out, And I just kept investing who were willing to meet me halfway. Now, if this approach sounds find another way to focus your interests and start taking action steps to becoming better friends I'm very happy to say, I now have those two in my life who live near me, who I talk with, text with and hang out with regularly. I like and admire these guys. And I have another half dozen friends who I get together with sometimes but not always because they Here again is a summary of my five tips to make friends as an adult. Feel free to add your own advice in the comment section below. Thanks for spending Friendships are one of that you can have in this life. And I encourage you to make your present and future relationships a top priority. Till next time, thanks, God bless and I will see you soon.