So we're going to add the umami flavor of tomatoes to our base. This liquid will lightly impart the tomato flavor to the sauce. This is the thickness! Now this is an Italian pasta dish! Hello! I'm Chef Fabio. Now, for the ingredients we have spaghetti, garlic, oregano, cherry tomatoes, salt, sugar, and olive oil. Okay, so for this episode of our Tomato Pasta Series, we'll be making pasta with cherry tomatoes. I've made a lot of different tomato pasta dishes up until now, but today I'm going to try making one with a new technique! First, cut the cherry tomatoes in half and arrange them on a heat-resistant plate. The oval-shaped cherry tomato we will be using today is called Sicilian Rouge, and in Italy it's called "datterini." The juicy sweetness of these tomatoes rises when cooked, making them ideal for pasta sauces. I recommend using Sicilian Rouge if you have it, but if not, regular cherry tomatoes will work just fine! First, sprinkle salt evenly on the tomatoes. So the most important thing today is to add sugar to your liking. Sprinkle it evenly over the tomatoes. Later, when we heat it slowly in the oven or toaster, the sugar will caramelize and the sauce will be packed with flavor, making it delicious. So, sugar is the key! In addition, I want to add an Italian aroma, so we'll evenly sprinkle some dried oregano. The aroma of this oregano gives off a strong scent that really embodies Italian cuisine, making you think of Italy, so if we add this dried oregano to tomatoes and heat them, they'll give off a great aroma, so it's important to add generously! From here, I'll heat it in a 170degC oven for about 30 minutes. You can use an oven like this, or you can use a toaster like the one you use to toast bread. Now let's heat it up. Yeah, it's been cooking for about 30 minutes now. The point of heating the tomatoes today is more than turning them into semi-dried or dried tomatoes. That's because the bottom (yellow circle) is burnt after cooking, right? The important thing is to remove and use the burnt parts with boiled water to make the brown sauce, so it's key that the bottom is well charred! We will use these tomatoes again to finish off the pasta sauce, so set them aside for now in a tray. So, we're going to use these burnt parts as a sauce. Okay, so let's start by boiling the pasta. Today, I want to boil the spaghetti early and thicken the sauce properly, so I'll add bronze-diced (coarse type) spaghetti. There is 15g of salt in 2L of water. In a frying pan, add crushed garlic and then add the olive oil. Add enough oil so that the garlic is submerged when you tilt the frying pan like this. Then heat it up. Okay, now the garlic is starting to bubble. I don't want the garlic to get too brown today, so we'll turn off the heat while it's still simmering. At this stage, remove it from the heat and let it cook with the residual heat. This heat-resistant dish we heated the tomatoes in earlier is now packed with the delicious flavor of tomatoes. So, while the garlic is cooking, turn the heat on and add the pasta water in. Once you've poured in the pasta water, scrape the bottom like this to unstick the tomato flavor, and the liquid will turn into a brown sauce. This is the key point of today's dish! When the flavor from the bottom is thoroughly absorbed into the pasta water like this, the garlic should now be soft, so mash it with a fork to release the garlic aroma into the frying pan. So, although this isn't the basic Spaghetti Aglio Olio e Peperoncino, it has a strong garlic aroma. So, we're going to add the brown sauce we just made, which is packed with the delicious flavor of tomatoes, to the base of this dish. Now we'll boil the base just once. Today, I'm using a little more liquid because I want to finish the pasta in this sauce to create a thicker pasta dish. Now add the tomatoes we cooked earlier. Then lightly crush the tomatoes in the liquid...and you'll have a delicious tomato sauce! However, if you want to keep the taste of the tomatoes, you can leave them alone at this point. It's delicious to break them up as you eat them. Whether you mash them or not is up to you, but by lightly mashing them like this, you can transfer the umami flavor of the tomatoes into the sauce. Okay, now that the noodles are cooked, it's time to mix them into the sauce. Today I'm using spaghetti that requires 14 minutes of boiling, but I'll boil it two minutes earlier than the package says, then simmer in the sauce for two minutes to thicken it. I usually add a lot of salt to pasta water, about 1.5% for every 2 liters, but today we're using less salt which is key since the amount of salt can make the pasta really salty. Now, cook it for 2 minutes and simmer slowly like this, dissolving the starch in the pasta and turning it into a thick pasta sauce. Okay, now after 2 minutes the noodles are just about done. This is the thickness! This is the thickness of an Italian pasta dish! Once the noodles are thoroughly coated with the sauce, stir them... Wow! The noodles are now nicely coated with the sauce, so it's time to plate it up. Now, our Cherry Tomato Spaghetti is complete! Itadakimasu! Wow! This consistency is just like classic Italian tomato pasta! Wow! Mmm! This, everyone, is simply awesome! It's the ultimate Italian cuisine, or rather, it's a simple dish that represents everything about Italy. It feels that way because we used thick noodles that have a rough surface called bronze dice, which makes the noodles thicker. By mixing the noodles while they are still firm, the sauce is thickened at the end, creating a pasta sauce that is quite rich and making it a pasta dish that goes really well with thick noodles! So, "did you use an oven for today's dish?!" is what I think you may be thinking. This is a technique that is actually used in Michelin-star restaurants in Italy, so please give it a try! Thank you for the meal! Today's dish is a great, simple pasta dish that will give you a real Italian feel, so please give it a try! Thank you as always for your comments! Well then, see you in the next video! Bye~! We've released a dedicated app for this channel! - With many new, unreleased recipes! We also tell you our favorite equipment and recommended ingredients! If you become a premium member, you can view exclusive recipes and use the ingredient recipe search feature. You can also bookmark your favorite recipes.