Over the last money has taken over campaign finance, eroding our political process and is set to break records in this year's And it comes with a fun name Dark money. Dark money. Dark money. Dark money groups. Dark money is flowing There's much too much money that flows Good point talking foreskin. Admittedly, folks, when I step into the political ring, it's as treasurer of the National Chillers Party for the proliferation of pontoon But with the presidential race what better time for me of feces and cash that's Because I'm a little pretend journalist, Dark money means money from unknown sources that is used to back But to understand dark money, when Waka Waka topped the charts and a conservative nonprofit called some kind of Anti-hillary Citizens United was going to be banned that prevented corporations messaging right before an election. Citizens United sued, and soon which ruled that while Citizens United of individuals, therefore That's actually a violation The same would go for other types Ain't that right, Craig Holman So the Supreme Court on its own into a major case where they ended up should be treated as people expanded features in campaigns. They can make unlimited Corporations That's considered bribery, What the Citizens United is for corporations to give money that push certain messaging but don't technically campaign The groups spending and dark money in particular, That's Anna Massoglia from the campaign Open Secrets of the two groups You've probably heard of super PACs. They run those ads that feel like a cross World War two propaganda Kamala Harris supported That's terrifying to me. Trump says Harris is a radical. I don't buy it. If Donald Trump weirds you that out, Democrats are dialed in on one thing Because, again, they technically don't Super PACs can take an unlimited amount from basically anyone or any organization. And while super PACs have to disclose Commission, which is the regulatory agency finance law, some of the groups super PACs have to disclose their donors, That's second group. And I mentioned earlier, 501C4s are one of who gives them money to spend most of their cash But despite their legal missions causes, there are a bunch of ways For example, they may spend on where they feature a candidate in the ad, on how amazing or how terrible And because they avoid words or the equivalent anything that would They not only don't have to disclose their donors to the Federal Election in many cases, they don't have to disclose Which means that Dan Toomey will nuke England Vote Toomey for president. That counts as political But if a 501C4 paid for an ad that said so they finally know who's boss. Pretty cool right? That doesn't count It counts as social welfare messaging. So you wouldn't have to let anyone know And while 501C4's they donate to to make a certain ad, There is very little stopping that may be affiliated, So you can have a super PAC who run the super PAC It can be run by the same people using some of the same resources. So if I were a billionaire knowing that I supported I could find a 501C4, which they would then give to a super PAC ad that destroys my grandpa's brain Totally straightforward. Literally, within the first year of 2010, of the Citizens United decision, Spending by outside groups, and what eventually became super PACs 427% literally overnight. And it's just gotten much, much worse No diggity. Let's crunch the numbers, Craig. By the 2010 midterm elections, by Citizens United, there were about Today, there are over 2000. In the 2012 presidential election, $600 million in the 2020 election. They spent over $2 billion. Damn. We don't know where a Super PACs lean into this secrecy things like Concerned Americans Freedom works for America, people or the I Love America super PAC, and look, I can understand wanting If my neighbors knew I'm sure they would stop inviting me They're animal lovers, dropping spare cash into these things. The majority of super PAC funding comes Super PACs are funded by just a handful of very wealthy They're throwing billions of dollars into the election Indeed, in just this year's presidential given to super PACs by individual These roughly 6000 and that's on top of another roughly that super PACs have received And while I'm you should know with nuance differences which wealthy individuals and corporations You can only put so much in a So to recap, we have these shadowy donations and essentially to drop their cash and crank out ads Groovy. But despite all of this shadiness, that super PACs cannot directly coordinate Right? Right. The issue of coordination comes down to a really important Sean Cooksey Commission, the regulatory agency that I mentioned earlier. Public communications is a term in the law that says these are the kinds of between a candidate without it That term includes broadcast TV, radio, newspaper ads, billboards and other things that we consider But Sean's colleague, FEC vice Chair Ellen that the coordination regulations are just and part of the problem is they were And I have on numerous occasions that we really need Yikes. Sounds like Ellen and Sean has some stuff by the watercooler. Many of the loopholes through which super PACs and political parties I mean, this is Dan Toomey level Like, campaign staffers or have candidates Other times, campaigns will upload B-roll Campaigns on their website in a big red box, to super PACs that this is the language And because it's public, And in many cases, they're giving them all and they just have to put it together So if you're scrolling Instagram at 2 a.m. and you happen to see a political ad that it actually could very well have been written by a former political staffer which is operating outside of the Yet the ad was still created by the campaign itself. And legally, that doesn't count as coordination Now, originally, most dark from corporations that tended to support But since 2018, Democrats have decided going band for band launching a blitzkrieg of dark money in some cases. Dark money is a bipartisan disease Some billionaires are liberal. Some billionaires are conservative. Everyone is a beneficiary of dark money Which brings us to today, cash is set to prop up two candidates campaigned against dark money So they have Nobody knows what the hell they are, It's the dumbest thing I've ever seen. It does not represent justice in America. When dark money is fueling elections. They want to take these people you do as I told you because I gave you That does not represent We gotta take that money out of politics. And yet, each party has decided to conduct a campaign in 2024 is to do The main players supporting called Future Forward, Future Forward USA action, founded Future forward operates in intense secrecy nearly half $1 billion to air ads As of a few days before the election, Meanwhile, a number of different campaign, also creating ads as the election approaches. Everyone's feeds right now with all sorts of bizarre content, and then some of it is far Kyle Sharp. Yeah, I know the guy. He writes about online Because of the anonymity super PACs and other to do shadier stuff than the campaigns Good example is one prominent in Arab-American areas of Michigan right that Kamala Harris is super pro-Israel, in Pennsylvania and telling those voters The more people spend on one side, the more the donors are going and have to spend more money to combat It's it's And, I think most Americans with this much in this type of political information Kyle. But if this arms race of muddy money shows side of the aisle, I'm wondering, Maybe one day we could, I don't know, overturn where our politicians were bribed Well, unfortunately, my friends, And I wouldn't hold your breath waiting on Congress to decide anything But you should also remember that many of the lawmakers who could fix receiving dark money, so it might not be And if you've got a phone super PACs aren't just involved in No, sir. They're actually even more successful at running ads in less might be even more susceptible Now, all of this comes together look at our electoral system Dark money is no longer a problem It's the solution. Each side has decided that their best shot with embracing this dark new world Even when most Americans agree on our elections. And you can see it in the way that these organizations A recent CNN report with dementia were tricked One group of wealthy Republicans that are looking to challenge Should Trump lose. Elon Musk was raffling off who supported his super PAC in certain it's probably illegal. Shutting down his dreams of completing into Mr. Beast's Amazon Prime game show. Though his dreams of buying faster Tesla projects Certain people are far more influential to get their candidates elected I think we can do better for the American Yeah, maybe I mean, if this is going to be our system, Maybe what we need is a president bank rollers right on their sleeves, fuck it. I got all my money in my entire political Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, George Soros, Depot, and a bunch of random shell To the average voter with a medium Sounds like an all American slogan to me. for good work. I'm Dan Toomey, worried about politics. Can't relate. Not here at the National Chillers Party of pontoon kickbacks. Special thanks to all of our donors, make this video possible. We appreciate you. And to everyone else. Make sure you kick back, relax Have a great weekend.