Black holes can destroy everything - but What happens if we push physics to the absolute in the process? Let's create a tiny black hole, about the try to rip it apart. Nuke It Big booms break things. So to set the mood, let's explode the world's Boom Black holes swallow whatever crosses their And since E = mc2, all the energy that enters The mass of a black hole is proportional to it just gets bigger and more massive! Antimatter Matter and antimatter annihilate each other. What will happen if we throw a moon's mass Unfortunately, when an object enters a black its past identity - whether it's made Black holes only care about gravity, which object. And the mass of a particle is the same as an anti-moon has the same effect as throwing The black hole just gets more massive! This "deleting ability" of black holes their size and power, black holes are, in An elementary particle, like an electron, by just three numbers: its mass, spin and And amazingly, the same is true for black They have a mass, they can rotate and carry Once a black hole forms, it doesn't matter or a banana: it will always be fully described But if a black hole is basically a weird particle hole? Anti Black Hole How exciting! A particle has the same mass as its corresponding Since a black hole has mass and electric charge, the same mass and opposite electric charge. What if we make them collide? Sadly, the charge will just add up and cancel So after the collision, we'll just get a OK. We need to think bigger and stretch physics Destroy the Event Horizon It is true that a black hole can carry spin But even for these crazy objects, there are If the spin or the charge of a black hole will happen: the event horizon will dissolve. In a simplified way, we think of black holes compressed mass with such strong gravity that not even light. This is why a black hole looks like a "black The event horizon is the outer edge of this Cross it, and you'll never be able to come But when a black hole rotates, it works a It is as if the rotation wants to repel nearby - which doesn't happen because its gravity BUT - If the rotation gets too fast, this disappear - nearby objects won't be imprisoned The same thing happens with the electric charge. Make it too large, and our ironclad jail will If we managed to destroy the event horizon, And objects would still naturally fall towards If you hit it, you would still die horribly But the vicinity of the singularity won't You could get as close as you want and come This should count as destroying the black Can we do it? Overfeeding All we have to do is to overcharge or over-spin We could do this by throwing objects with momentum, so that the charge or spin increases We have to overfeed the black hole until it However, whether you can actually do this physicists. Think of a charged black hole. Equal charges repel each other, and the more more they push back. So let's say that we have a negatively charged electrons, for example, whose charge is far The electrons will feel an electrostatic repulsion. And the more electrons we throw, the larger be and the stronger the repulsion. But once we reach the upper limit, the electrostatic allow any more electrons to come in. At this point, the black hole will refuse With the spin it works similarly. Once the black hole reaches its upper limit, But some scientists have discovered what looks If an instant before the black hole reaches in just the right way, it looks like we could Most scientists are skeptical, but let's give Breaking Physics There is a catch though. The event horizon of a black hole hides the So destroying the horizon would leave us with hidden by an event horizon. And this poses a problem: it could mean the There is a big dirty secret about black holes. Contrary to widespread belief, the singularity No. It is in the future of whatever crosses the Black holes warp the universe so drastically switch their roles. Once you cross it, falling towards the center That's why you cannot escape: Stopping your as stopping time and traveling to the past. So the singularity is actually in your future, And just like you can't see your own future, hit it. But you also can't hit something that is it, like you will experience your next birthday So you will feel the singularity once it happens Singularities that are in the future are not with them. But a naked singularity would be in front What would we see? Well, the whole point is that it's impossible A singularity is a region of infinite gravity, At a singularity, the bending is so radical broken. Space and time don't exist anymore. This means that you cannot predict anything, where and when something will happen. But "where" and "when" have lost their So we have an unpredictable thing with infinite This means that anything could come out of to lost socks or a solar system. Predictability, causality and physics as we We think that singularities should exist in general conditions, gravitational collapse However, scientists think that nature forbids Something enforces the creation of an event from infecting the rest of the universe. Without event horizons, physics may not make So although black holes have been portrayed they may actually be the heroes that keep So if we do destroy the horizon, we might You know what? Let's not do that. The Safe Option As far as we know, there's just one safe All black holes emit tiny particles - a This process causes them to slowly lose mass behind no horizon and no naked singularity. The time it takes for a black hole to completely For our mini black hole the size of a speck trillion trillion times the present age of So, is it possible to destroy a black hole? Yes! We just have to wait. But you don't have to wait that long. There are plenty of fascinating things to - if you have the knowledge to understand To help you with that, we've created a series to the next level. Made in collaboration with our friends at understanding of the topics from our most metabolism, to climate science and supernovas. There's even a lesson on black holes, where behind their behavior and lifecycle. Brilliant is the best way to master key concepts science and beyond. Just set your goal and Brilliant designs the tools--to reach it. Brilliant has thousands of lessons to explore. And each one is interactive, like a one-on-one Their latest course, "Exploring Data Visually," you don't--to start your journey in data No coding skills required. You'll analyze real datasets, like one about for yourself. In a world overflowing with information, data every field. Brilliant is the perfect place to start learning To get hands-on with Kurzgesagt lessons and you can start your free, 30-day trial by signing There's even an extra perk for Kurzgesagt get 20% off an annual membership once their We love seeing how the gears interlock with