Translator: Mika Fukasawa Good evening. One of the things I love is it lets me step back in time In doing that, things that we've gained One of the things I've really noticed is the fact that our relationships First of all, In indigenous cultures in tribal cultures, especially, no water districts, Nothing stands between them other than their own ingenuity They have a very intimate It's always astonished me. This one Hawaiian woman, she saw this crab She said, &quot;Look, There will be a storm coming tomorrow.&quot; Sure enough, the storm, They're more or less the PhDs The other relationship is their relationship to each other. Again, they don't have the institutions. They don't have social security. They don't have an IRA or a 401(k) plan. They don't have elder-care facilities. They completely depend on each other That produces a real tightness. I've noticed women at a well They're all sitting around, They're nursing their babies. The woman that needs will take her baby She'll start nursing it. That woman will see her goat run off, She'll start nursing it. These kids are kind of They live in extended families, The other relationship is the relationship to spirit. It's a very strong one. This is Malik and her great grand daughter Yasmina. They spend all their time together, 14 hours a day working in the garden. I've seen this in Africa, I ask, &quot;Why are these two people together all the time? There is a big age difference.&quot; They said, &quot;No, no. You don't understand. Yasmina is just coming and Malik is just about So they really do have They literally pray to the spirits They put spirits in everything. Their ancestors' spirits In the beginning, as superstition, Over the last 30 years, and I want to talk to you a little bit About 25 years ago, on the human rights issues there, to go and meet the medium the Dalai Lama's oracle. It took place in this little monastery. There were about 60 monks in there; they led the medium in, sat him down, put this big hat on his head, His face turned red. The monks started chanting He kind of went into this trance, and he started talking The monks started writing down and then, after about five minutes of that, he fainted, and they literally I just watched this, and I was wondering, &quot;Is this a performance? But two days later, I was able His name is Thupten, He is 50 now. He said that he didn't remember when he was in this trance. He felt very weak right afterwards, So I said, &quot;Well, how did you How did you get this job?&quot; And he said, I had started hearing these voices. I started feeling very ill, and in fact, I thought An older monk came to me and said, He taught me how to go he nurtured me; he stayed with me Now he's the Dalai Lama's Oracle, Two years later, I was doing up in the Northern part of Kenya, and I was taking pictures of these people. My guide turned to me and said, &quot;You know, their predictor has told them that you were coming I didn't think too much about that because there I was He went on to say, that you would hide from them I said, &quot;No, I don't hide, I'm usually right in front [of] the person That night I was home, and I realized, yeah, that I've never used before. It's this Panoramic camera. And this is the way All of a sudden I thought, My assistant said, &quot;That's amazing.&quot; It was just something but at that point, is start actually seeking out these people that go into altered states in order to heal or predict That's what I started doing. By the way, here is the woman I did take her picture Her name is Sukulen. She is 37 years old - She had the very same story When she was 12 years old, She started feeling sick and dizzy. Her grandmother came and said, &quot;You know, you've got a talent,&quot; I literally went around the world and doing my human rights work The way I would find them - they never introduce themselves as shaman. You would never know who they were &quot;Who is the healer here? And they would tell me So this is Nomage. I'll just show you This is Morgan Yazzie, This is Lindsa. She is a shaman in Eastern Siberia. Mengatohue, a shaman in the Romani tribe, in the Amazon in Ecuador. One of the last shamans I interviewed There is a group of animists there, There's only 3,000 of them left, They hold on to their animistic beliefs. They are very interesting-looking. They say they are the remnants They are very fun-loving, but I went there because I was told that there was a six-year-old boy and I wanted to see him. Everybody I had interviewed had been a shaman for years. I wanted to find somebody When I got there, I found: he was a 60-year-old goat herder (Laughter) So that's the shaman rumor mill. But anyway, I had taken as an assistant. We had to hike for about a day and a half to get up to the top of the mountain He was the shaman for the Kalash people. And again, I asked the same questions. &quot;How did you get into this? He had the same story of hallucinations, The shamans, in different cultures, By the way, shamanism It's the world's There is a lot of common denominators, but the way they In Mongolia, they beat In South America, they take In Pakistan, they use something they burn juniper branches, pour the blood over the burning branches, and then the shaman inhales Here I am trying to talk him because I don't want him He said, &quot;No, I have to do it. My spirits are telling me I have to do it. You've come so far.&quot; So the next morning, started burning the juniper branches. He started praying the spirits of the forests. They slaughtered the animal, and then he went into trance. He stayed into trance and when he came out, he was very silent, He was very talkative And I thought, I asked one of his sons &quot;What happened to him? And the son just said, 'Your journey is going to be but you are going to be safe.' The next day my son and I took off. We left his camp and headed up further We were out in the middle and my son started getting sick. He evidently picked up a bug First day went by, Second day, third day, fourth day. Couldn't keep anything down for four days. He was getting so weak I was totally freaked out. We pulled into this little village, and we happened to run who was visiting his mother, and he happened to have a bag and some oral rehydration salts, To me it was like a miracle I'll tell you a little bit First of all, this is the common things it's not always true, but in general. They typically are identified And the &quot;Call,&quot; [for] the ones it was a psychological crisis. Secondly, they almost always had a mentor. Somebody that has been through it, and has come out the other end and can show them the ropes, and show them, and tell them, And then they have to face It's almost always this death. A death of their old self And this rebirth - It's like they ... take on much more They expand their consciousness. Their awareness of who they are expands. They expand their circle of compassion; I guess that'd be As such, they learn to go where they believe the spirit world That's where things really happen. They go there, get the information, And then, after they've learned their trade, they begin their life of service, and they typically do this for no money. This is something they just do, In the beginning many of them resist it because like Janduli Kahn, he still has to do that. But on top of that, Sukulen has five kids On top of that, she is the healer So it is a lot of extra work. So it happened - because I didn't know what to do with it. I didn't know what to say about it. I felt I was getting in over my head, into the world of consciousness, But a year and a half ago, who had one of these psychological breaks. I just want to introduce you to him, (Video) Adam: and my mind just opened, and I started thinking And in that sense, it was beautiful. I found it was - How I found my - The first time I'd ever experienced where I really felt like a part of this. That I was this, this was me. And so simple - Yeah, And then I kept going, And then it got scary. It was just kind of like a panic. I don't know. 'Put some medication in this kid I don't know if it hurt or helped. It was at the point I think, for side effects of medications. Like, there was a point And I felt like a lab rat, Absolutely awful. Vomiting all day, I couldn't leave my house for so long, and the thought of interacting with people It was just so much. I still don't know and what was my mind.&quot; Phil Borges: Adam was on drugs, He was having a such a hard time cut them off, and did And those of you They come in various forms, but this one was 10 days It's very rigorous. I did one just to see what it was about. And it was one He was able to stabilize himself. He got a job at Whole Foods Market, He started having where he'd have a thought And by the way, he is very psychic, he has very strong healing potentials. But he has no confidence there's no one that's been able Anyway, he had these, and he decided he needed to go back Well, they learned that he had and they sent him home. So the one avenue cut him off because of the stigma Adam isn't alone in this by the way. In having bipolar [disorder], any of these heavy psychological episodes. Here's some statistics from One in five of us will suffer By the way, that's The other thing is, one in 20 Another interesting fact is 50% happens before the age of 14. By the way, most of the shamans, or in their teenage years. Seventy five percent before the age of 24. So it's more or less Here is the difference The shaman's advantage. One, they have a cultural context. The physiological crisis, it's believed to be - It's something the person and be stronger in the end. Have more abilities in the end. The other thing that's a big advantage If you have the stamp or on your dossier, or whatever, It's not like having diabetes It's one of the most stigmatized things that can happen And especially, if some kid and he's not knowing and the doctor comes and says, you can imagine The other thing they have an advantage of, they have a mentor, they have somebody that can take and hold their hand and say, &quot;Listen, I know what this is all about, And the third thing is they have a community Not only that, they have Many of these people have specific talents So, that's what is an advantage if you're in one of these I don't know if you heard by a woman by the name Has anybody heard that one? It went viral. This is a young woman, when she went to college She said, &quot;My nightmare began when I told my roommate Her roommate said, So she went [and] saw the doctor. The doctor said, She went to see the psychiatrist. The psychiatrist put her on medications. By the way, these medications they don't get She said, from that point on, You ought to listen to her video She eventually got to the point &quot;I realized that those voices this old childhood trauma But it took her and a couple of friends to get her out of that hole because of that stigma. So, if you do have one of these issues, if one of us does have we go to somebody. The common method of treatment is to suppress the symptoms So, with Adam, and so I've been posting this on our blog how he's doing and what's going on. By the way, he's homeless now, And we've started that take a whole different And in fact, some of the psychiatrists, and we're posting them as well, claim many of these instances, not all of them, but many of them, And they believe, just like I do now, if you don't stigmatize them, if you don't scare them with the label, and if you give them a place of support, that the psyche itself is self-healing. It will take them, and it will eventually and they'll typically come out at a higher level then when they went There are many people that believe - we've interviewed cultural historians, they believe that our species You look at the environment, you look at what's happening and we're being asked to a whole different level. I just want to end with this statement and I love this statement, &quot;We human beings as something separate This is actually an optical delusion It's like a prison for us. Our task is to free ourselves by [widening] our circle of compassion and the whole of Nature in its beauty. This striving for such an achievement and the only true foundation That was Albert Einstein. Thank you very much. (Applause)