[AUDIO LOGO] [APPLAUSE] So I want to ask a But maybe I think with the question of thinking about leadership. And I wonder how you think about how you define it. I've actually been asking this I'm always interested to see Well first, let am to be back at the law said, Heather, in a room that in. So this is a special treat. I think that it's frankly very in general before you ask because leadership at all levels in any kind that you can imagine. There are leaders of families. There are leaders of of businesses, of universities. You go on and on. And of course, there And so I always start because I think you have is a situation in which you are thrust into and obtain leadership why you want to be a leader. You have to you think you can bring the circumstances might be. So for me, leadership is about together, having the to follow through on what having enough of a empathetic understanding of the people will follow your without followers is although I guess you can and make up followers. [LAUGHTER] But in the so-called have to have real whether it's voting for standing up for you, or And I have always believed, in that it was critically with people who had who had perspectives and diversity of all kinds so to make better decisions. And now there's which proves that diverse long as people are actually and then listening to each around whatever goals you're So I always think of it because leadership You may not think of but you're the person to for all kinds of advice going to do on Friday or up to being an elected or some other Great, OK, well that was the I'm actually going to ask. So with apologies to who prepared really we're just tossing to have a conversation. [LAUGHTER] So let me just bring are a ton of students in this So this is what the dean So if you all don't know, or early 1970s, some the International Law Library. They burned a faculty People were walking around with It was a really unusual time. But I wonder if you in the shoes of the students about what were you like then. Did you know what lay ahead? How were you thinking Oh, I had no idea. I graduated from And as Heather said, of our college government, which My fellow students and I were very little. But it was a great about what we would to bring about the changes like hammering away at the of course now, in retrospect, But you know, that's [LAUGHTER] --and trying to change the have boys in the dorm and the door had like that, things that were So I didn't really I was going to do after into the first semester And a professor said, well, you're going to do but gives you lots of options. I said, oh, OK. So then I started and got into a couple. I had really no vision of I really went to because this professor a lot of options for if I ever And so I ended up at admitted to Harvard and Yale. And I had a male friend who And he invited me to a mixer. I don't even know if there But this was a mixer, where-- I think mix different Well, yeah, I know you mix We just-- [LAUGHTER] --we just showed up and we were. And so he invited me to this at the Harvard Law potential incoming wanted to go there or not. So anyway, he was He was introducing me. And honest to goodness, to this guy who had to be the He was like 6' 5&quot;. He had on a three-piece suit. He had on a watch chain. And so my friend said, oh, is Hillary Rodham. She's trying to make up her competitor. And he looks down at me and First of all, we don't And secondly, we don't [AUDIENCE GROANS] And that's how I ended [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And it turned out to be although as you pointed And it was during And there was a lot going on. There was a trial of in the New Haven Courthouse. There were-- this is there were what they And businesses were There was a fire in the And some of us literally to help put out the fire before There was a lot of just of issues arising, there were the murders was it two or four, gosh, at And it was-- there was that was so hard And this was a very in my life and the In response, largely, to students literally going to go on strike pretty helpless and hopeless and so much turmoil And it was a very, So it was a time in our country, where a lot of the same about democracy, about you can imagine, as they seem to be right now. Yeah. And as you think about-- do you you-- things that you didn't do You did you did the full panoply But I wonder if if you could go back in oh, this is one thing Honestly, I can't I took an extra year. I was supposed to And one of the it real was trying to figure be done to alleviate poverty and to understand better how or didn't serve children. And so I went to the and asked if I could observe, do something there. And they were open And so I convinced the here at the law school to was focused on status in the family, I worked with Joe that he was doing, along with Al of the Yale Child Study Center, was Sigmund Freud's called Beyond the Best because the standard &quot;the best interest of the child&quot; and situationally applied. So that was an I became the first-- even though I was the first person from the profession to go on rounds because this was 19-- I can't remember-- were trying to define what was which was child abuse. Up until then, there was no even psychological paid to the phenomenon And so there had been some and studies done in And so the hospital protocols to figure out what abuse, how to to do with the parents or if that's where the So I would go on rounds with with a supervising doctor, been burned, had fallen down And there was an explanation. But sometimes the didn't fit the explanation. So how do you make So I felt really fortunate I immediately went to work Fund, started by Marian Wright of the Yale Law School. So I felt like the law for what I thought I would I would be primarily an advocate and family issues. That's funny. So one of the is we want to prepare everybody their first. You have some pretty So maybe we can talk if you don't mind fast to your time in the Senate. And I ask this because I as a model of how part of a 100-person Senator Coons and And when we were having they each talked about how do And there's really different And I wonder if about how you thought and how you got so much Well, when I was thought I would run for office. It just never crossed my mind. Now I did meet somebody intended to run for office. [LAUGHTER] I thought, well, good for him. That sounds like fun. Yeah, so I did know people at thought they might at least, to have a But I decided to run and frankly, internal This all came about in 1998, So right after those elections, announced he would again in the 2000 election. Literally within seconds of I got a call from from New York, Charlie Rangel. And Congressman Rangel said you gotta run. You gotta run. I said, Charlie, come on. I'm not going to run. He goes, oh, you gotta run. And it wasn't just I'd be a great senator, It was because Giuliani So this was the old Giuliani, better than the new Giuliani-- [LAUGHTER] --but in other ways, at least [APPLAUSE] I mean, I don't know But anyway, so Giuliani And Charlie Rangel and a lot leadership in New York really And I think they were sitting who can we get that Why don't we get never lived in New York, who to run. And I said no. I said absolutely not. And I kept saying no. And I was very And then in like some of the people running Committee started going well, we hope we can get Hillary Then people would call me up. And of course, the And I'd say, no, I'm very flattered. I'm honored. But no, I'm not running. I think we're going to live of our time, when we but I'm not running. OK, so this went on and on. Delegations of people were They would roll and say, OK, here's what to win New York. And so they would They would talk They would talk about They would obviously And they were friends of because I kept saying just let us just come see OK, fast forward. And this really happened. And this goes to It was, as I recall, Giuliani had already announced. He was up and running, I was doing a first lady in a high school in Chelsea. Yes, we did name our daughter in New York City. And so we were at this event. And it was to about women in sports. So one of the women at the And the name of the documentary So I was introduced by She was, I think, captain of the team. She was very tall. And so she introduces me. And the newspapers were she run, won't she run. And I had told people So she introduces me. And I go up to shake her hand, She leans over. She whispers in my Mrs. Clinton, dare to compete. And I felt like I'd been kicked. I thought, wow, I going around telling women to compete in school, I was on every campaign stage running for the It was the year of the woman. It was all of that. I mean, I was out there. And I suddenly thought honestly, for the not doing this because Let's be really clear. And the answer was, yeah. I kind of am. This is a contact sport. And I had tried to move us and paid a big price in effigy and everything else. And it can be very above the parapet. So I began talking seriously and that I was really close to. And raising the question, do because I'm scared to do it? And do you think I'd be And of course, They said, oh, yeah, but you probably And I finally decided thinks I should do this. People think I And So. going to step out, step And it was really hard. It was hard because I was used speeches for somebody else. Vote for her. She'll be terrific. Look what she brings to the job. Oh, my gosh. What a great senator, or he is the best. You'll be so lucky to have him. And then all of a Like, I think I could do this I mean, I tell you It's hard. And I want to be really So fast forward. I'm running against Giuliani. And eventually he drops out. Then I'm running against And he gets into the race And he sends out an here's all you need I'm running against Hillary And he raised like $11 So that was big money back then. And so it was a tough campaign. It was really exciting. It was a wonderful experience. I have to tell you, that's If you do get out people would have never met. You hear stories you It expands your understanding in your state or your country, So I get elected. And so two people reached the then Senator from is one of my personal icons-- she had some of the best one And I just did an event for Wes Moore, who's running actually, I think, will win. And again, she And she was on the Zoom. And she goes all right, people, and into the trenches for Wes. She's just really good. [LAUGHTER] So she called me up to come see me to talk I said, please do. So she came . And she said, OK, committees you want to be on and And let me give you some advice when you first get there. It was incredibly helpful. The other person who reached from West Virginia who for a very long And he reached out and he here's the question for a big profile. You've been first lady. Let me ask you, do you want to I said, well, I think I want actually want to He goes, OK, well here's And he proceeded So when I got to I began to represent and then others, of course, were to navigate because when you're and you see those you're going to agree with them, some of the time, and And you have to be to figure out how to build things done for the people is important for the country And that was all put to I'd been a Senator The city and state I It was horrifying beyond words. The day after the attack, were flown to New York. We were literally the only We landed. We took a helicopter, which And we could begin to grasp the It truly looked like We landed. We met up with Giuliani, who more months, Pataki, who to meet with people, get as zero because there was literally and whatever else was And then we go to a big meeting and federal officials in of the police headquarters. And we're sitting And around 9 o'clock, both come in and give us each a note. And here's what the note said. The note said, the White House, has just sent up a request They've asked for $20 a penny for New York. And I'm looking. Having just seen the I am just speechless. And I look at Schumer. And Schumer has-- he He's got a daughter who was had to get evacuated He has to go home. He has to see his family. So I get on the last train I get to Washington. I take a shower. I get dressed. I go to the Capitol at because Robert Byrd And we'd had a turnover because Jim Jeffords, Senator from Vermont, had and caucused with the Democrats. So the Democrats were which meant Byrd was once again Committee. So I was sitting there waiting he came in like at 6, 6:15. And I went in. And I said, Senator, let me yesterday. And I described it I said, the White House sent There's not a And we've got to Clearly, they attacked is a symbol of our and our diverse and multi-everything society. We've got to rebuild New York. He said, what do you need? I'm just sitting there. I said, I think we need He said, OK. I will do everything I just, literally, I for the rest of the country, for New York. And we then went But then I went to the to make a speech to Schumer came back from New York. I told him what I was doing. He went on the floor. That afternoon we had a And it was just me and at that time, George Allen both from Virginia. And we're sitting And I told President Chuck and I were and gave him a very And I said, we need your We have got to have your He said, what do you need? I said, we need $20 billion. He said, you've got it. So then we were getting to go into the cabinet for a bigger meeting with from both affected states. And John Warner, this had been just an incredible of those Republicans wish you could clone and and he says, Hillary, that commitment in otherwise, his staff So we get into the cabinet room. And President Bush And then I say, Mr. to thank you for your commitment [LAUGHTER] And his staff looks like deer in the headlights look. And they're looking And I looked at John thank you, thank you. So by the time Schumer and the president's in the Office of are trying to undo So we then spend not literally calling but the president said so. So sometimes leadership assessing a situation how to make the best of because there were Republicans some Democrats who were like, from for New York? I said, you know, in case you didn't notice. And we had to keep fighting for of the way. And that took up much of in the Senate. Secretary Clinton, could talk a little you were secretary of state. And I should just-- last time you were here, we actually had a faculty lunch. And faculty can sometimes than other human beings. And so-- [LAUGHTER] --the challenge-- everyone was And so people would just [LAUGHTER] And it was amazing your knowledge was. But I just wonder a little bit about how how you approached it, how Obama and a huge across the world difficult problems. Well, just like I never I never thought I'd As you might ran against Barack Obama. And we started off with, as 10 people on the stage. I was the only woman, And then it got down fighting to the end. So as soon as it was clear and was going to be nominated, We actually did an event of weeks, in a place called we both had gotten, as I recall, primary, although I [LAUGHTER] So I worked really, really And I assumed that I supporting his agenda and doing So the Sunday after Bill and I are out This is a theme in my life. I do a lot of And I don't know if any of or New York. But it's North of New York City. And it has really And usually it's hard even And there we are in the middle rings. And it's Bill's phone. And it turns out to be And he wants to ask Bill member or two. And then he asks to talk to me. And he says to me, could I said sure, when? He goes, sometime this I said, oh, OK, sure, wanted to have a personal about going forward. Anyway, that following meet him in his And we're just sitting And he says, I'd really like I said, oh, oh, oh, well, I'm deeply honored. I'm flattered. I mean-- oh but here are do a really good job for you. And I gave him thought would be considered would have considered He goes, no, no. He said, I've thought and I really want And I said, I'm so because I'm pretty Once they get over that hump, I call him know Mr. President. I said, yeah, . I'm really honored but I I love being in the Senate. He goes, look, I want you to think made up my mind you're And I said, well, but I really want to He said, look, I want I will call you in a day or two. OK. I go home, talk to my And I say-- I'm so-- I'm just kind of me to be secretary of state. And I said, I really want that I love. And I told him no. Anyway, he calls me I've really thought about this. We have two huge problems. We have an economy in freefall. And we have lost our I can't do both of these I'll deal with the economy. You go out and tell and that they can I really want you to do it. And I said, I know there are And he said, I am not I said, I just-- I really-- I've got And then I tell my husband, and he wouldn't take And Bill says, I asked and you told me no [LAUGHTER] I said, you know, about attractive, [LAUGHTER] I mean, why don't I just I don't know. Anyway, so I literally And I thought about it. And I called him back. I said, if you really want me And I'm deeply honored. Anyway, so I agreed and I And then I started-- after I agreed and after it was I started calling all these that I knew. And the assessment, it was after the former guy left. There were a lot of we don't know what And especially in Asia, are you are you just Are you going to be Are you coming back to Asia? What are you going to be doing? So I decided to make my first to Asia. And I decided to include like Japan, South Korea, and Indonesia because President So I wanted to, as since I thought we had a not just with leaders, I wanted to do things that would whether they were town halls And So. agreed to do a lot of while I was there. So I agreed to be on a morning called, Amazing, was a show that people And when I learned that, I said, but I will talk. And so they of a highly-enthusiastic because it's a morning show on behalf of President Obama. And they had questions So here's the first question. And the first question was you and he ran against you. You said mean things about about how. Can you work for him? I said, well, because we And yeah, we have elections. Somebody wins, somebody loses. That used to be the [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And then people come together I was honored to And I am now part of President And I honestly think a sense about what it was like. We did not always agree, But he was always secure enough, to have disagreements. I was aware that he got on important matters. And sometimes he go do what you think is right. Other times, say, But we had a really open, and dialogue about the Whoops. And so for me, it turned out Can we just talk a little bit of the time because we've I think one of the has been watching people on the look at exactly the and come away with a completely And politics, you function in a world like that. And everyone is, I think, We worry about in our election in a way that There's just kinds of things on the radar screen. And I wonder, how about the next couple of advise people who care about what they should do going Oh, I think it's such And we're in a very difficult It's not, at least in my The divides are really deep. And they're exacerbated and misinformation of people's emotions and that it feels really on literally both sides are not respected, they're not given the that they should in our society or our economy. So I do think it's And I think about this practically every all for legitimate and even values because We are a diverse bunch of folks. And we don't all We weren't all We didn't have the So yes, we do see the And that is not bad. That can be, as I good for making better listen to each other. But there seems to be a desire interests to manipulate our truly do disempower large do try to fix or determine by limiting the electorate, by by now, with this frankly, before the Supreme Court to give to state legislators, the violence on January 6. What on Earth would to believe the election had been filed in front of a and federal judges, where Republican as secretary of state or counted votes over and came to the same conclusion. Why? Because for whatever they choose to believe that we are as a country we should have to deny the reality of the And that is in part, in response has an almost cult-like and frankly, the lack on the part of Republican who refused to stand up who have left their or been defeated because their duty by and either voting or voting to certify the as they had been counted So I view this as I think there are people of psychological or truly believe the conspiracies. To some extent to these conspiracies to social media, which uses that they are caught in And this is a is a direct threat to democracy replace reality with this kind reality. I think that there are They're looking and a lot of money and power And it's a lot easier-- look where I come I look like-- for me to just That's probably a pretty good And then there know better and do it anyway. I served for eight So I served with a lot of there who, after saying terrible decided that it was the to throw their lot in with him. I don't recognize them. I know they know better. But they have decided it makes sense. And I think there's on the part of people who have the charisma that somebody like that somehow you'll always-- because you're smart too-- you'll always stay And if you really you'll be able to come back. I think that's an illusion, I think you go back and look who thought they could manage to use two extreme examples, It doesn't matter that much, probably be good for my career, So how do you those layers, layers layers of deception, I think it's really hard You have to be prepared to break through and build up a large enough to refute the lies I think that we're in in the next couple of years. If you look at the efforts to in states like there is a very to basically win elections win them or not. When I won in 2016 by in the popular vote, I by about 70,000. So 40,000 either way, I would When Biden won the popular he won the electoral college So 50,000 either lost the electoral college. And that is part of and his enablers, is they could not lose Georgia for that matter. And when they did, by we're talking 11,000-plus, they refused to accept that. I mean, that's what I lost by. I could have had I could have done the of such mind and character. But of course, I didn't. And I had people literally do you know how many voters The AP did a study which said and 60,000 voters in Milwaukee And we had anecdotal evidence And it wasn't easy for me gave my concession speech. I thought he would be a I didn't believe, would be dangerous until I And I said, look, we have We have to support And I hoped and literally make a pivot to be the not just the true believers, didn't, wouldn't, couldn't do. So if you look at look at Biden's see how close these elections So what their goal is enough voters that they the outcome, whether don't count votes, votes, whatever it might be. I was recently who's an expert on voting. And he said, I went at your race, your And in Cleveland, in that you actually ended up getting than Obama did But there were so because hundreds of purged between 2012 and 2016. So they know how to do this. And they are intent And so I think if you and you actually one vote is the way it should be mobilize everybody to vote, so the electorate is going your political positions, so and even if they then just don't or have the state legislature I think that that's And I can only hope with that the Supreme Court conservative federal and throws out Moore v Harper. Because if they don't, I think democracy is over Well that brings me to is actually from a student. And in a funny way, this that Senator Coons about, which is this is a personal one-- get through your day? I mean, Senator Booker, has gone completely nutritious And for those of you who are and Booker, went running together, through the But I wonder how you just Well, I don't run. [LAUGHTER] My daughter does marathons. So I figure the running Look, I like to that my wonderful late friend, Albright, said. She was asked, after where she was talking about all And somebody asked say you're an optimist or a pessimist And she goes, oh, I'm an And I think for a pretty good description. And I get a lot of joy I still work with amazing We just finished something Initiative in New York-- it was just extraordinary-- commitments to change, put up their blood, to improve education and health just do really You could not be there for the and not go away optimistic and need to bring people together is bigger than them to fulfill that purpose. I also run an organization I where we fund entrepreneurial are in the political world. But they recruit candidates, they represent on the front lines of as well as we give And I'm still really by people who want to run I told you, just I did a Zoom fundraiser who happens to be a He was a Rhodes scholar when African-American, 44 years in New York. He's going to be the next And that's really exciting got the chance to make a real So on all of these And then my daughter and I called Hidden Light. And our first production where we went out and women around the country about overcame them. And it was extraordinary. We did it during COVID. We traveled literally across the for part of our are funny because people always So we thought we'd talk And we talked to a few because that's if you're doing a show for TV. But most of the people we you've never met before. They're communities. They're leaders. But there are-- a woman who's got out of that movement and are still in it. And one of the people she interviewing her was a young reveal because she left the and testified against the hate marches and when the car ran into the And then we interviewed and an African-American was murdered in a waiting for a bus in as ROTC Lieutenant in the army. I mean, hearing how how they overcame the lived with their grief but and better for it. And then we went to clown school I would do, to be honest. Apple said, we Why don't you go to And I said, excuse me? So there we are in clown school, Rouge, with little, red happened to be, as the the smallest mask in the world. And learning what a flop, what that means in front of people and Whether you're a clown or you're a professor and and you're not deal with a flop, which Do you recover from the flop? Do you give up because How do you keep going? So and then the other thing co-produced is a story of an of her small town in Afghanistan by the Taliban-- they tried to kill they ended up how she dealt with that We have this of her getting to the airport, And I was deeply involved women, who were on what was So her story is a bought, called In Her Hands. So we're trying to tell can seem dark, and going to happen next, that lift up inspiring people. And I have a bias toward that are maybe going to help tough decisions. So that gives me joy. And then I have to say-- this sounds really cheesy I have three grandchildren. And I had dinner And they just give They're eight, six, and three. They're so different. I'm just amazed. I had one child and there's these three Nature, nurture? I don't know but it And it was-- it's always just to see these new So I'm doing a lot. I've got a podcast that I'm just-- I have that give me a lot of joy, keep But I remain deeply that our country and we don't see our and we don't see because I agree that we're and autocracy. And there's a lot of examples of today. I want us to continue to and that's not going to be easy. Thank you very much, We really appreciate it. [APPLAUSE]