PAUL FREEDMAN: Alright, so we're going to deal with is Empire in the East. Why did Constantinople, survive, the Western Empire based, in Milan, at times collapsed in the We're going to take a long view that is, from the the mid-ninth century. After the mid-ninth century, flourishes and has a period, weeks, of great splendor But this long view is justified 400 years, or so, this Eastern threats of invasion, sieges, sorts of nations and peoples, internal division, because Or what the people who I remind you that while we Empire or the Byzantine Empire, the Roman Empire no adjective, They were the successor to-- and if they were the only the empire of Augustus, the empire of Constantine. In their base, before the you see on the map. The map really shows them, more Eastern Roman Empire-- notice in the Mediterranean. This was the accomplishment of sixth century, whose reign height of power of this this period of crisis. So while I'm saying that we are century's worth of sieges and in the sixth century, in the represents a kind of brief, but of the West. And that's partly the leftovers of it, in this Byzantine or Eastern Roman extending-- including Spain, North Africa, Egypt, the Mediterranean that is modern Israel, Anatolia-- that is to say Asia Minor, and the Balkans, Greece, This empire was held together you see, and as we've already placed to control access between across the Bosporus Straits, Sea, which is the access point Mediterranean Sea. This city, modern Istanbul, Theodosius II, in the The so-called Theodosian rather nastily restored are an incredible monument, to the power of Constantinople, built on the landward side. Constantinople-- very difficult to attack from walls, very difficult to Until very recently, that is, I the Theodosian walls were agglomeration of Istanbul. That is, they were so big and so the city, that only in recent one of the fastest growing and region, has the city leapfrogged and the walls are now in new part of the city. Nevertheless, extremely And the period we're dealing Constantinople and heresies. And if you just hold that in &quot;one event after another, that that this will have, I think least rendered comprehensible. Before we go on, let few words about Procopius. Who has read the Secret OK. So not too much. You should have started it. I should've warned you. It has disturbing, even weirdly It is a diatribe against I don't think I'm giving Procopius' theory about demon, a devil, a representative What makes this text intimate portrayal, even if it But we will pay a certain a certain price for intimacy, of an extremely sinister It's a little bit like reading capricious, extremely powerful, bloodthirsty ruler. I think what you have to ask of this particular time and What seems to be Procopius' And we'll elucidate some Procopius, in part, is this other works are lavish in This is an historian who panegyric and diatribe. Nothing between lavish servile imaginable criticism. The two go together. The two are phenomena, again, that of Louis XIV to that of The same kind of enforced praise humiliation and rage that comes A Secret History had to be authorities read a few words of not died in bed, as, We know this from one manuscript found in the seventeenth OK. So that's my introduction When we talk about survival of survival under several circumstances. So our first concern is, how did century, which destroyed the Part of the answer The East was easier to defend, the position of Constantinople, impregnable site and as a very extensive trade, and as a territories of the Empire. By core territories, I mean parts of this empire, which including Greece under that and Asia Minor. And, of course, Constantinople both of them. Other advantages of the a bit richer, more urbanized, than the West. It's army It's civilian structure of administration remained intact. With the exception of Justinian, emperors are that outstanding But their subordinates were very worked well, and the East threats from the outside. &quot;From the outside&quot; meaning it Roman Empire, in an, admittedly, defensible space. It had an eastern frontier and both of which were fragile. The eastern frontier we already talked about them-- and the Northern frontier, along or less, with all sorts of Avars, Slavs, Bulgars, all would attack it. It also had the disadvantage of And we're going to be talking These problems, eventually, did It would have a period of pretty different from that of the West. century, this decline can be many cities, or their much we've already seen that as in the loss of territory. We're going to be talking and the Arab conquests. But they begin in the seventh result in the loss, from the Egypt and the Mediterranean But unlike the West, the government, never collapsed in Although, it is a kind of period Certainly, a period of military of political problems, and Nevertheless, the Empire In general, during this period, years-- we're talking about, is the ability of the empire willingness to accept the loss protecting others, and its over its region. At the opening of our period, Antioch are extremely Their importance within the But in order to understand problems, we're going to have I think I already apologized heresies, and I think I already explained why it's important. Questions, remarks, OK. Representatives of the to claim equal time? OK. This is just a selection I mean, it's the proverbial proverbial icing on the what do you call it-- crust on the chocolate But having said that, these Christological controversies. They're about the nature of his human to divine nature. And, grossly, to oversimplify, Christ's divine nature, and human nature. [correction: the nestorians nature; the Monophysites The beginning of this Nestorians, named after the bishop, Patriarch of Nestorius seemed to teach -- 420s, and the stories in for 431, as patriarch. His followers seemed to teach and that his divine nature was nature, or it was nonexistent I should remind you that the being God, and yet, being suffering and dying. So this is a problem that, understanding of who Christ is Nestorius was deposed by the Constantinople-- I'm sorry, the Third Ecumenical meets in Ephesus, on the western Council of Ephesus, Ecumenical third one in 431. The first two had dealt I remind you that Arianism is it deals not with the nature relationship of Christ Here, we're now just Monophysites, in opposing the emphasized Christ's divine in their opinion, overemphasized the human nature. But from the point of view of Orthodox, the people who Nestorianism nor Monophysitism, extremists. The Monophysites over did If the Nestorians taught that kind of fully human one and a separate, the Monophysites teach, that Christ had essentially, divine. The relationship of the human Monophysitism was denounced by threw a bucket of water The bucket of water representing What's at stake in this, and Christ saves people. If he is too human, then he's like some kind of ancient-world And he doesn't seem, then, to from the devil, hell, original things that God has saved the If he's divine, completely of distinguishing him And then, how did he suffer Was his suffering real? Can God, with no human Questions about this so far? We understand the difference, And we, sort of, understand Sort of, because maybe I hope not, because you're not if you're thinking this-- You may be thinking, though, don't they just agree to &quot;Hey, you can believe in one Or, &quot;You can believe in two in two natures coexisting. And God will reward your That's really the problem, is which, at least, so enlightened people don't really in detail, on others. We're not really interested But the Bible, I've got to important to have the The Bible, particularly, but Testament, is very bad on The further back you go in the intentions rewarded. Lot's wife was told She looked back. She was turned into Nobody said, &quot;Oh, OK, you didn't you know, &quot;human weakness.&quot; Or the guy-- now I'm betraying who stumbles as they're carrying to Jerusalem, from captivity Is it Usiah? Well, anyway, I shouldn't I'm not sure of. But the guy stumbles, and He stumbled. Nobody asks him, &quot;Oh, I'm stumble,&quot; or &quot;a little rabbit stumbles: he dies: that's it. God wants you to understand Insofar as you don't Therefore, the right nature is important. It's not just a matter of one band is better than another, is better another, or one team It is crucial. Gregory of Nyssa, himself a AD or so, that the mood of great, that if you go into a change, he says, the shopkeeper the begotten and If you inquire about a loaf of that the Son is inferior, and And if you ask if your bath is the sun is made out Now, all of this is a satiric ordinary people are caught up in It is not, exclusively, intellectuals or clergy. But it's a political problem as that it really preoccupies us. In the Council of Chalcedon So Ephesus, 431, Chalcedon, Chalcedon, also on the other Asian side of what's The Council of Chalcedon It basically says that Christ They are both perfect, but they are separate. Two natures, one person, A &quot;hypostasis&quot; is a thing that This solution was suggested The same Pope Leo negotiated with the Huns. The West had the advantage of of controversies. And so Constantinople, than Rome in the 450s-- Rome, about to collapse nevertheless, is beholden to be the majority solution, to the Of course, actually, it's not everybody acknowledges the It provokes a split. The Patriarch of Alexandria resisting the Council, and extent, Lebanon and Palestine, steadfastly. Indeed, the survivors of that is the modern-day of Christianity-- are the Copts, in Egypt, who population-- Christian Monophysites-- and the Christians of Ethiopia, more than fifty percent of the The so-called Coptic Christians of the Monophysites. The Nestorians also have some modern world. They were very strong And if you've studied things and other Western travelers in people who interpret for them, them with central Asia and the Nestorians. But we're going to leave them political problem for the They're, pretty much, exiled. The Copts are an internal And the Monophysites, or Orthodox, the Byzantine The Byzantine Emperors try And I'll mention a couple The Emperor Zeno, from 474 to the Henotikon. We're back to emperors. As with-- we saw as far back trying to intervene controversies, right? The Henotikon says, one of the we're not going to discuss So first, it says this rather of the Trinity was incarnate.&quot; further discussion. Nobody liked this. Zeno was succeeded by Monophysite. And then, as we'll see, the century, Justinian, who we're more closely, was a fierce Chalcedonian, Orthodox. But his wife was, sort This may have been politic. Since they were both effective Monophysite could orient Empress, and the Orthodox, Ultimately, this problem would the Arab Muslim invasion of the over the Monophysite Again, I hope I'm not giving the most striking, sweeping, Mediterranean world or of the period that we're dealing is the rise of Islam. Mohammed's Hegira is I can't remember. Anybody know, off hand? Anyone want to look H-E-G-I-R-A. Student: 622. PROFESSOR: 622. 622. By 660, Egypt, Syria, Palestine, to Muslim rule. And they are extending their Africa and as far east How this happens, why this discussion a little later. But again, if you refer to the Islamic takeover. And again, if you look further consists of all these parts, taken away from it. And the parts that were taken the Monophysite parts. So the fifth century is the Eastern Roman Empire, despite The early sixth century, which detail, is the story of the make a stab at reuniting, by been the single Roman Empire. Justinian's empire was retrospect. This is a reconquest that, at later generation would have overexpansion Initially, the Empire, after Justinian-- so in the late sixth century, would be Persia. But also, at the same time, start experiencing Danubian from the Balkans. And here again, as invaders and heresies. Invasions from Slavs and Avars Persians in the East. OK. In 591, a revolution toppled peculiarly enough, fled to the Emperor Maurice helped In 591, there was a peace and Byzantium seemed to have period of warfare of the This allowed Maurice to turn front, his Western- Northern tremendous threat to him. The Avars, a central Asiatic Central Asia into the Balkans. And they carry with them, to conventional portrayal used to the Slavs; the latter It's a little more complicated The Avars had taken the great And in 492, Maurice turns to back against the Danube. His army rebels against overthrown and killed. The beginning of the seventh maximum danger of Byzantium. It lasts, with intermittent overthrow of Maurice, to Constantinople. Immediately, this new emperor, The Persian King claiming to benefactor, but, in fact, simply Constantinople. In 608-609, the Persians and the Persians are really By 617, they have taken Egypt, have taken in Jerusalem, and has been taken back to The emperor, at this time, very impressed by, admittedly. Heraclius leads a resistance, siege that is on both sides of On the one side, the land side, are the Avars and the Slavs Across the city, on the Bosporus, are the Persians. And what Heraclius does, is to of the patriarch, and go Persians from the rear. The patriarch defends the city, the army, but by putting walls, to face the enemy. An icon is a painting So then, it is not a statue, And it portrays a saint or Mary has come to be called the remain today, a figure of the of aspect of the piety The Church -- patriarch ordered down all of the treasures that decorate it, in order So the combination of the icons, of the populous, and military this prolonged siege-- at times a double siege-- of the Avars and the Slavs After many years of fighting succeeded in overthrowing At the battle of Nineveh this is a seventeen-year I'm sorry, Nineveh-- E-H. Heraclius defeats the Persians, Empire is virtually crippled. 627-- Byzantium would have seemed to The first Arab attacks, however, years after Mohammed's Hegira. By 636, Syria had been taken; taken; and the True in this case, we lose Persia, itself, would pass under Arab rule. Egypt would fall in 645. What's left of the the Balkans and Anatolia-- some Armenian, some So weak is this empire, so beset to be, that a successor of Constans II, moved the capital Constans II ruled Syracuse, Sicily, obviously-- the original Syracuse. He would be the last emperor And he was, actually, So in 662, when he moved the spectacle of a kind of ghost Visit of Constans II to Rome, Eastern Empire beset, as it was exclusively, by the Arabs. And indeed, in 674, the Arab Constantinople. In 678, we hear, for the first Greeks against the a weapon called &quot;Greek fire.&quot; Greek fire is some kind In other words, something that or some other propulsion will burst into flame. Obviously, you can't launch it You have to have something basic bomb throwing-- you have to have something that The Greek fire was, wooden ships and on It would set the And it's a weapon that seems to for awhile, to the Byzantines But, parenthetically, how was it in the first place? These people, who decades that flowed all year long, who sea, for whom the desert It is an example of this kind that we'll emphasize, about the Islamic invasion. The East did survive The seventh century-- with in more detail-- is a crucial turning point. By this time, the Eastern Roman about as the East is pretty Justinian would be the last And the truncation of the and the Near East, means that empire and, also, pretty much Orthodoxy is the Christian Nestorianism and For the time, the Orthodox Catholic world, in the Their official break won't And as you know, to this day, Russia, Greece, and so forth, And they also have certain West. And that's not our We do have, however, before more heresy. A heresy that starts to divide late seventh century, and Iconoclasm, which Wickham talks and which he tells us What he means by that, is that something that must not be about It's got to be about Iconoclasm is the belief that particular, are dangerous. And that they lead to image, rather than what So the iconoclasts believe in A cross is fine but not Even, in some circles, Christ would be suspect. The danger of this reverence icons then, becomes a sacred fallen into idolatry. You're worshipping multiple Now it certainly seems logical to do with Islam. Because Islam, in its most frowns on and bans the divine figures. And it, indeed, doesn't like in decoration of Lest this be interpreted as Prophet -- especially There are no pictures of for mosque display. And so it seems logical that criticism from Islam, that monotheist, that it's a form of many sacred figures. And that the success of Islam against Byzantium, might be monotheism-- the abandonment of the worship proliferation of The problem is that there's And you don't have to this kind of thing. If you look around the churches Europe, you will see statues Protestants, in the sixteenth stained glass that was destroyed Protestantism is iconoclastic in it believed that the Catholic reverence to all of these saints forgot, in the process, to Iconoclasm is a crisis It is also, like these other problem of how to represent the human beings. What connects the divine Are there intermediaries? Is Christ an intermediary, And if he's God, how is Why does God care about us? How does God care about us? How many ways are there It took until 843 to settle It had many periods of recrudescence. It's a controversy that lasts, of 150, 160 years. At times, it divides the Empire completely, at times not. It tends to be supported If the emperor isn't iconoclastic, it tends to wane. It's supported by the emperors, trying to unify and mobilize the of the emperor, instead of around the various So where are we, with this of only sieges and barbarian In the ninth century, it would exception of Constantinople little more than fortresses. We seem to be at the end of fundamental way, of that Mediterranean cities. Society even here, as in There's not a whole There still are libraries, with don't seem to be We have very few texts It's a militarized society. It's an intensely There's very little secular really at the end of Greco-Roman As it happens, however, this of surprising, at least in Byzantine Empire. And we will be talking On Wednesday, we're going Justinian, through Procopius, And then, we will turn to the subsequently. Thanks very much.