[Music] Welcome to Bitterley in Shropshire, the quintessential English It's bursting with pretty cottages, a all surrounded by empty rolling fields. But maybe people of Bitterley because they think that their are they right? Was quaint, little old Bitterley just 3 days to help the villagers find out. Let's [Music] The village of Bitterley: a sleepy, tranquil tranquil kind of place, but with Time Team ain't it? Just the right sort of conditions for Ludlow in the county of Shropshire, Bitterley is a history dating back at least a thousand years. uncover. And I mean really keen. 9 o'clock, day tooled up, all itching to help us launch a full Spurred on by June Buckhard, village resident and joined forces with us. And they'll be honeycombing the time they've finished, Bitterley won't have you wouldn't have thought that a little village think that their village which is - what - about you look around Tone, at what we've got in this an opinion as to what this lot is. Well I must lumps and bumps here. Yeah. Does the phrase Absolutely it looks like mediaeval settlement you? We have, yes. Come on let's have a look did you find? A bag full of pottery, all of it that's mediaeval, isn't it? So, everything now? We need to see if there's a building here, four times the area into an area excavation. What If we dig test pits in the existing village and than let's say 1500, 1600, something like that, So we'll start off test pitting down there- Yeah. Oh yes please! So this is trench one and So we're putting in our first trench - trench. Although they found mediaeval pottery, so by expanding their trench we're hoping and pottery really are the remains of scratched the surface before he's got some Pot. Oh, that's good. That's good, look. Any 12/13th century. 10 o'clock, day 1: already we But a mile away back down the road, modern day watchful eye of Mary-Anne and the archaeologists, gardens with test pits. So you haven't found any for. It's her job to maintain order and report this is some sort of gym move, isn't it? I evidence from across the whole of the present the dig we'll be able to chart the history of the the lost Bitterley they think once existed a mile archaeology of the village already? Well we think up the top because of the plague. Oh, so theories fact there's a very strong oral tradition in the church and that it was plague, definitely plague, got energy, and now we've got theories. In the caused many mediaeval villages to be abandoned, So far we're just lacking one thing: good solid pottery do not a village make, deserted mediaeval Phil has already transformed the villagers' trench What it looks like or beginning to look like is probably a collapsed wall, that's where all this or not it's a building wall or whether it's [Music] So too early to tell whether it's a wall but at least it's not just a pile of stones. this massive field to explore every last lump and if there's any evidence of buildings underground, bumps you need to employ good old-fashioned leg what bumps lie over what lump. You need to get our new team member Alex to do. Fortunately, he on in this field, it's going to be quite something on this. There's certainly a kind of change in here, I don't know if one's an earlier field but quite what the relationship is at the moment, with 3 days. But down in the present village after of expert guidance, we've now got a throng of has right angles and straight edges and keep that piece of stone like that, I think you're pretty hard work's paying off. How long have you been now. Yes. Have they found anything? Yeah look at that? Edward VII. And the date is just- 1902- many minted at that time. So that's really nice. it looks as though it's just come out of someone's just drop it in did you? No way. So half a day village all the way back to 1902. But back in the with those lumps and bumps. So what have you found I have. We've got what I think is an arrangement because these parch marks, if we go over here... it's just that bit drier and that's telling us stones here as well, aren't there? Yeah we've fact you can see stones all over the place, can't almost looks like a wall here, doesn't it? Yeah. isn't there? We've got a platform that feasibly- And it's the way it relates to the end of this Yeah so we've got something here. Also we've got a which may be some kind of trackway, and we've side of that, so I wouldn't say village but it here. It might be a couple of farmsteads or 'cause we should get cracking on straight to be some evidence of settlement. To find out, lumps do turn out to be the walls of mediaeval well, maybe the villagers' theories are right - Maybe we've nearly sorted it. But then again, maybe not. Aston's first law of local research I don't think the villagers would like that. that whatever they tell you is probably right. But if their theory is wrong and this wasn't a what could have caused it to collapse, if in reasons. I mean the most obvious one is in the from arable farming to pasture farming. You don't evicted or they drift away and go elsewhere. house like this, is looking out they don't want down and clear the space in front of them. I like the landowner and getting rid of all the peasants the village. But whether this phantom village was down to hovel clearances is all still up in have we yet got enough evidence to show that Right now there's only one man able to answer you? Absolutely Tony. Oh it's a superb day isn't I could do with a pint at the end of the day. doesn't have a pub. Village that doesn't have You've got to have a pub. Maybe that's why it I think they've all gone somewhere else for here? Not in this trench, no, I don't think we haven't you? Ah but just because we've got a wall we've got a building and a village. I think we do the edge of a field. And you can see that actually there's one face of it there, and you can see it. It is a bit disappointing, isn't it? There's got to actually take off some of this rubble, knows? - there might be a mediaeval village there. Join a thriving worldwide community of Time reach 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon continue expanding the Time Team world with Beginning of day two here at Bitterley in people of the village which is just through Morning Ian! -And whether or not the village once the church is. But actually, it's not them that for the extension of the village and what have just once part of some field boundary. And look - another field boundary or something, and and look - what's this at the other end? Could much here, is there? Nothing to write home about. today. I've told you about this, it'll be time Why do I get that kind of response when I'm just nothing in these trenches? This was open the end Tracy's still cleaning, we don't know what's in to here, that can't be just a field wall. Michael, it? In that trench, can you yet see indications that's all I'm saying. Now ask me the next until we see if there is any mediaeval occupation don't you? Yeah of course, and I've got an area We've got these very ephemeral earthworks laid up against a road that once went through the this field that's interested you the most. Yeah, have come from somewhere up there so, yeah, it's and we should put a trench in and have a look at had this morning. And then you're going to have and leave us to get on with it, right? I can't So, let's hope it's third time lucky as we're we can find any evidence of a settlement up here. shout buried walls of houses. Like I haven't heard to find any hint of a village at this end, a mile it's a hive of activity as the village's own for another day's onslaught. There's your muscle got 19 test pits open and as the finds come in, on a map of Bitterley. It's a crucial task because find as the spread of finds as a whole, using found in the test pits. This should help us build took shape. So, these three are from test pit quite a mix of modern and older pottery. This the blue dot. That's really nice. That's a piece wheel thrown, it's formed over a curved former. the mould, put the glaze on and they would have a pie crust effect. That's a really nice piece are gradually beginning to push back the date of success than we are. Back in the fields, we've and pottery, but as for evidence of a settlement all. Well, apart from the one rather large thing Bitterley Court. And if anyone around here is land owner. There's no bell or anything is there? this? Yeah well we'll play the 'mad archaeologist' shotgun coming out of the bushes. No, no, I got talk people around when they know what you're your garden. Hello. Do you think if you'd been have seen the village here you'd have thought don't suppose you'd be allowed to today but... move the village away from the view. It happened village, what about the house? What do we know 17th century, but I'm hoping we'll find that there Does that make sense to you? It does, yeah, I mean to the big house, suggests that there's something to do some geophysics around it and to actually go that would be the first thing we would like to do. turned over to our team? Well within limits, maybe it's best to leave the house for a moment [Music] I just hope James is as carefree about his And their efforts are producing some rather at that I thought it does look like pottery, be a piece of mediaeval pottery. What colour have I'll put a yellow dot down there at number I've got a definite one here and two questionable that nothing was going on here in the village in the field by Bitterley Court. As you know we haven't seen the finds process yet, so it's Well, I'd love to know how it's all going to turn Bitterley was situated up in those fields and for here to its present location. But now we've got big mediaeval village. That is -and I'll say it in that field. Have a look in here. Wow, what a box. We've got some fantastic old seals on some most interesting for you is this old estate book. is quite interesting. This is a parchment where you're doing the dig here. I mean what's have any suggestion here of a settlement so it's it's clearly vanished completely from where we here, though, it's depicted as a hedge row a very similar alignment. That's fascinating. evidence of the village, strong evidence a day and a half is nothing more than a field pottery come from? This is fine for a bog standard you've got quite fresh breaks on the pottery. This about the stuff that you'd expect to find with the We haven't got any of that. That's quite odd. was a village they would have been eating animals, burning stuff. There is no charcoal, there's the acidity of the soil but there's not a scrap evidence of some kind of mediaeval occupation from we can't find any structures. There really isn't If you'd like to see more episodes like this you 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon by the end the Time Team world. Enjoy front row seats [Music] Welcome back to Bitterley in Shropshire, to investigate its history. They've opened is unexpectedly pushing the date of the [Music] A mile away in the fields, we've more mediaeval pottery but no the only identifiable mediaeval building that [Music] Oh Mick, this a gorgeous little church. Oh yeah, you want to go off and have a furtle? Yeah, I'll later. James, the first thing that is obvious Charles Walcott, John Walcott. Who are they? to be very rude about because they increasingly all their money 'cause they drank too much, but discovered that all these people are actually my rather than a travesty now. Yeah exactly, so I you getting on? Oh very good. Got anything good? Isn't that a gem! How old do you reckon that is? isn't it, where the baptism takes place? and it's lead-lined, look, they've put a lead it has these little arches just like a Norman like that, with the pillars. Does it tell us the status of the church at that time, because minsters could have carried out baptism, so it date. So if it was a working parish church, there church is serving a community. One of the things along. But a 25 miler, that is. What do you mean Well, Mick might travel 25 miles to visit a font, money is on them having lived somewhere near refusing to give up on trench one and a half, but anything, is there? No. And trench two is looking cow byre. But Alex's punt on trench three where So this is looking like the kind of stuff then yeah. You've got a lot of stones here though, natural? Well, I think these may well have been recognise. But it's a sniff, though, there's at last, the trace of a village. But exactly though somewhat lazy way to find out: scanning and sort out house from hump once and for found evidence of mediaeval activity. If Bitterley may have been more like a mediaeval we've begun a house-to-house search. Architectural styles of construction. He believes this dating to the 16th century so we've put in just pottery, but the possible hint of an earlier all the best stuff is under the cobbling. Well have any dating no evidence. But let's not extend Do you want to do another one somewhere? [Music] And luckily, it seems they don't. I mean somewhere over there. We do a very neat job. [Music] It's not actually very sharp. So mid-afternoon the village, but digging up the village to you poor folks sweat in the sun and I feel dig another hole.' And June, as archaeological supervisor. I think Sorry Natasha. All right, then. Thank you. I can't believe it either - he's actually getting the first time in 10 years that I've seen you on time you did any troweling, is it? No, the last dig three of these a week at home, you see. You do did you choose- This is your particular choice, discs of test pits. Why did you choose this one? was something here before the house was built, mediaeval farm before the present house was built. troweling as quickly as he can. Well, I was going I thought you were going to help? No, I'm off and while it's still a frenzy of activity down Well, nearly everyone anyway, 'cause Matt's made end of the trench, maybe the first 2 or 3 metres. very familiar that. Down at the other end we had lovely piece of floor tile. Yep. Have we got any And it is interesting that as we're getting the quality of the finds is going up. Tell you garden? There's no one around, Phil, shall Down tools at once, guys, Mick makes I've got something to keep you out of mischief. Well Phil, there may not ever You said there wasn't. But there is It's your own little treat. You go And a reasonable price? To you: free. Thank you, to put the word in with a lot of landlords to hasn't it? It's been great, hasn't it? No. It's confusion then, what can we tell you? Okay, when it that we're looking for? Yeah, because we've been talking about a village now for 36 hours history ended right up by the house, that's not a yeah. Where's that air picture, Alex, 'cause interesting features on it and in particular agriculture so it's a mediaeval field system minute, you just said two villages. Absolutely church in the manor up here, we've got mediaeval can't be a continuous settlement because of centres of mediaeval settlement. So when we've we should have been talking about possibly the you tell us before? Well because we've only Hang on a minute, also, if there's a church up why isn't it near the people? Well there might So there's not one Bitterley, there's two There could be two. On that bombshell, let's it's highly confusing! Why didn't you tell us have invited us to have the beer, would Join a thriving worldwide community of Time reach 15,000 worldwide supporters on Patreon continue expanding the Time Team world, with Beginning of day three here at Bitterley in of the village and yesterday afternoon I found been just one Bitterley, but two Bitterleys, one but there could have been two churches, one up evening, Mick says there could have been two great If we can prove the existence of two mediaeval village theory is also spot on. Where there's a thinks that Bitterley Court was probably one of present village, could have been the other. Well, you've got. And that's only obviously a fragment late 16th century. So did this survive till fairly down, pulled down in the 1950s. That, is that? it's on what is probably an earlier site, isn't the arms of a moat going around three sides of this things plonked on. Well that would be more wouldn't it? Yeah, but it's a scheduled ancient in? We haven't got permission to dig here but fourth arm to this moat, it's unlikely to be just but we do have permission to geophys here The thing I like so much about this is that it's isn't it? Absolutely. If Mick's right about the could be looking at not one Bitterley, but perhaps house. But if Park Hall was a Tudor new build, than 10 hours to find the evidence that could John's started to geophys to see if the Tudor Mick's hauled in some volunteers to dig - yes And if it produces high-class mediaeval finds, residence here. And up by the church, we're Bitterley Court, to find out if it was once That's timber framing up there. This house But since we obviously can't dig up this way putting in a trench right next to it And although the big guns are now focused they're still happily digging away at their test it's still the villagers' test pits that will Archaeology isn't supposed to be fun, you doing? Lots of bits of clay. What, no, tell of pottery, some of it, we're told, is mediaeval. we're right opposite Park Hall, and down the so this is possibly the hub of mediaeval activity. the more precisely we're homing in on Bridge Cottage and they found some mediaeval really starting to pay off, isn't it? It's just really staggering me is actually the tightness of mediaeval core of Bitterley. Yes, this is probably work, I think we've nailed the location of one around the site of our potential mediaeval des-res everything's gone rather quiet. Our first two Matt still has a hint of a house in his trench the trench by Bitterley Court. Well, most of us but I think the cause is justified - a reward for and we thought the best prize we could give Could you make us a trowel? I should be able want me to do this? Well you might as I get the hard work? So what am I doing then? Again. Okay, right I'll add a bit more heat. Well, that does make you warm up. That does, But you've got to remember, I'm still in the contest. I'd be No, Phil, this is a prize for the villagers. who seems to think he deserves a little what's going on? Go to the table over there, of that hole there. Is that mediaeval? I mean chuck it away.' My pot washers, right, washed the fabric. It is actually a piece of pottery. it's freshly broken. That hasn't gone very far. in the 12th, 13th, 14th century. And is this fancy peasant stuff. This is the big pot of pottage you chuck more beans into it, more onions. And get the impression of what a mediaeval house day. Full of wind. I think they stunk, they life. An unpleasantly vivid picture, Mick, but I home. If there was one, its owners seem on their doorstep. A mile away along the road the same strategy with a trench right by Right Phil, we've got baited breath. What have a piece of roof tile. I'm sure it's not pot and I'd like his opinion. It certainly looks like very top, and this is a point that's been dragon-back kind of thing on the ridge. If what 13th, 14th century. But it's pretty tenuous this trench which was deliberately put in to be could, is it so accidental that this is the one a high status roof? I still think this could be So afternoon, day three, our two village theory Court had mediaeval origins and that there were Bitterley, we've nailed the settlement, but what have we got one on the geophys? Half a moat. not a complete moat. Show us. This is what we that's where the water is. There's the house in moat continuing up to the house but at this point of the ditch ever having completed the circuit. it could either be a mediaeval site with a moat moat round it. Does that help us decide which it's... If it's incomplete, if the geophysics of an ornamental moat rather than a sort of and then this body of water running around the does that mean that this is much more likely to be been worried about attack whereas the medieval the idea of a separate manor and then all that had a church with it and so on, we can shove all now. It's quite a magical place this Bitterley - house in the Bitterley of today and no church medieval village was down here so we're back the manor, and the church so far apart? And why in the fields? Well, we've now completed the an answer. There are lots and lots of lumps and lived here thought that there must be a settlement associated with a deserted mediaeval village, you regular street system if you like, we just don't What about the wider landscape, Alex? Well, if because that really brings out this road here. on a north-south alignment. It goes all the way all the way north up to Wenlock Edge. And that it could be prehistoric, and that's the focus church is there essentially because it's on that that point. So it does seem that in the 11th with a church, a manor, and a few houses around that road could have been an ancient trackway. the 14th century, it looks as though Bitterley was thought. But it wasn't completely obliterated. down here at its present site and disappeared Just why that happened is something that June And it's been just an amazing experience for I reckon they all deserve a prize. I think you ought to carry on, because you will no couple of years doing this. So thank you It's been a really welcoming place to come to, Join Time Team on Patreon to masterclasses, and behind the scenes insights.