Ow! You're just going about your day when suddenly, What's your body trying to tell you? And why does it have to hurt you to do it? Here are twenty things you never knew about #20. Pain Is Your Body's Warning System Remember as a kid, when you decided to touch Your hand only glanced it for half a second up with a blister - and a stinging lecture This was a case where pain was very useful hurt you, your pain receptors kicked in and stop before you caused more serious damage. This nerve signal indicates to the body that immediately and avoid it in the future - saving But not every pain serves a useful purpose. #19. What the Hurt? There's another kind of pain that just seems the surface causing it. This is called chronic pain, and it lasts It can be caused by problems in the body's by the nervous system. Something gets damaged, and the brain or spinal indicates - something's wrong here. Solving or relieving chronic pain can be tricky, doctors to try to find the right combo of go away. But there's another cause for chronic pain #18. What's Eating Grandma? Have you ever heard your grandparent complaining Probably, and there's a reason for that That's because just like your car or computer, new parts isn't as easy as going to the Joints are particularly vulnerable to this, sure everything moves smoothly wears out before knees or other parts a lot rougher and more Thankfully, doctors can now implant artificial dancing the night away with less pain. But can pain actually be a sign of something #17. Feel the Burn! If you've ever lifted weights or tried to know you can feel pretty rough afterwards. Your muscles are cramping up, it can be hard watch some TV for a while. But after a little, it passes - and you actually This is because working your muscles causes tighten up and more painful to move them. It relieves itself after a little while and Just be careful you're not overdoing it it's too painful to move after a workout, But that's not the only workout-related #16. Hip to the Burn Have you ever gone for a run, and suddenly This doesn't always come with running too a recurring injury - but it's painful enough This is the hip flexor region, and it can It can be the sign of a more serious problem often it's a hip flexor strain - which is stretching. The best way to avoid this is to rest, take and do some exercises to increase your mobility But sometimes this pain isn't as straightforward. Sometimes it's not the hip. Sometimes it's above it, in the side - a It's most common during running, but it swimming or horseback riding. It's not caused by any specific injury, of runners per year. The pain is usually gone by the time the athlete on it's an intense shooting pain that can So what causes it? Serious shooting pain in the side can be a but in most cases the pain of a side stitch running. Most sports medicine experts believe the cause the ligaments surrounding the diaphragm, and and putting some pressure on the area. But one other factor can affect it - it's who eat or drink something sweet before running. Might want to cut out that pre-workout cola. Running can cause pain, no surprise - but #15. It's All In the Wrist You're typing away on that report that's Then, suddenly, a shooting pain in your wrist numb. That's going to make it difficult to type. This is one of the most common repetitive-stress but office workers. Carpal Tunnel Syndrome happens when the median from the wrists to the fingers. It can be linked to rheumatoid arthritis, involving the wrists. It can be alleviated by injections and splints, pain. But what about pain that isn't there at #14. Ooh, Ghosts. Spooky. When someone has an amputation - be it due least they don't have to worry about pain They can get a prosthetic and move on with Not always. Many amputees find themselves experiencing limb isn't there anymore! Over eighty percent of amputation patients missing limb, which indicates it's a common the body has to adjust its nerve reactions It's not the only case where pain involves #13. Calm Down Already! Pain is largely a physical response to your - but it has a mental element too. It causes you stress, which leads to frustration This is especially common with chronic pain, the pain or how to stop it. The problem is, stress can actually heighten difficult to focus and solve the problem. If you doubt this, try solving a math problem One of the best ways to cut down on pain, #12. Get Smoked! You know what causes stress? Pain! You know what many people use to relieve stress? Smoking! The problem is, it's doing the exact opposite Smoking is actually a serious risk for people fibromyalgia. That's because smoking decreases the blood the healing of injuries. That's why doctors will often tell people It can also interfere with some medications, But that's not the only unexpected thing #11. What's For Lunch? One of the biggest culprits in chronic pain While this redness and swelling is actually it can be too much of a good thing - causing And it can actually be caused by what you Processed and fried foods and refined grains as can alcohol - definitely a downside for But for those looking to reduce inflammation, and vegetables can help. But one unlikely thing can actually help to #10. Get Moving! We know - the last thing you want to do when That couch is awfully inviting and there are streaming services. But studies have proven that sitting or lying When you do actually have to get up, the pain Instead of waiting for moving to become essential, occasionally - especially since moving can endorphins, giving you a similar effect to But if you're looking to relieve pain, there's #9. Get Busy! There's few pains harder to get rid of than These chronic headaches can make it impossible want to do is be active. But one type of activity may have an unexpected If you've got a ready-and-willing partner, roll in the hay. While it might not be a natural activity - after tonight, I have a headache.". But a majority says that sex relieves their culprit is the same endorphins that are released But sometimes the cure is worse than the pain. #8. That Stings! Remember when you skinned your knee as a kid? It hurt - and then your folks said they had Now THAT set your knee on fire! Why the heck does rubbing alcohol hurt so It does its job, but the problem is that the the skin. These are the cells that usually have the When exposed to alcohol, their pain threshold that causes the pain, but your own body temperature! They're doing their job a little too well. And that's not the only time something good #7. Brr...Ow! There's nothing like an ice cream cone on ice. You're digging into a frozen treat when It's like a jackhammer going off in your You've fallen prey to the notorious brain This condition - actually called Sphenopalatine receptors in the mouth are linked to the ones Thus, the signals get crossed and when your hot, it gets transmitted to the brain. Oh, well. That ice cream still looks pretty good! But some food could cause more lasting pain #6. Pass the Meat Usually, kings had access to doctors who could But one disease was so common among royals - Gout. This painful disease, which involves serious by a buildup of uric acid in the blood - a drink. That wasn't something peasants had to worry But this disease wasn't new - evidence of Rex - who definitely had a meat-heavy diet. But not everyone experiences pain the same. #5. War of the Sexes You've probably seen men and women handle Maybe dad cursed up a storm after hitting dinner before washing out that burn. But there actually is a biological difference it's the women who feel more pain. Studies show that women have more nerve receptors doctors more often. This has led to a common problem where some in pain - after all, they've never felt Everyone feels pain differently - and some #4. Rate Your Pain! Rate your pain? I'd probably give it a zero! It stinks! But rating pain usually means ranking it on more doctors have begun using. It's especially useful for child patients, effectively, or chronic pain sufferers. Scales can vary - with some meant for kids - but most have a similar purpose. If someone rates their pain on the low end activities only mildly bothered. Someone on the high end may not even be able But some animals have an unusual relationship #3. Snakebitten It's one of the deadliest animals in the This venomous snake packs a powerful, potentially So one would assume it's pretty painful Wrong! The Black Mamba's venom actually contains effective than morphine. Scientists are working on developing it as it from the toxic parts. And hey, for one of the most venomous snakes But some animals don't feel pain in a normal #2. Not Your Average Rat The naked mole rat is atypical in a lot of It's a small, bald rodent that is mostly that resemble insect societies in some ways. They also don't seem to have the same pain - studies show they don't feel pain when This has gotten scientists pretty interested relief, and they're not the only animals A 2005 report said lobsters don't feel pain even if it's still hotly debated. But a very small number of people are in the #1. Feeling No Pain It's a very rare genetic mutation, with a cluster in a Swedish village - having the unable to feel pain. While they can tell temperatures, their pain vulnerable. A too-hot piece of metal can turn into a third-degree away. A painful stress fracture in the leg can go suddenly breaks. These people have to keep on top of their doesn't give them warning signs. Your pain is like an alarm clock - no one the alternative. Check out "The Worst Pain Ever? These Injuries Will Make You Cry Like a Baby" instead.