(graphics whooshing) - Hi, I am Rick Steves and In the next hour you'll see no museums and no art galleries, just Europe is expert at festivals and whereabouts to enjoy my favorites. Thanks for joining us. (lively music) (lively music continues) Europe. With so much history, also knows how to celebrate and with so many centuries of practice, they do it with amazing gusto. If you know where to go and when to go, you can enjoy festival extravaganzas throughout the continent We're dropping in on what you could call the continent's top 10 parties, each rich in tradition and a celebration of local culture and all of them full of feast on traditional food We'll join wild and crazy crowds, don a mask for anonymity, toss a caber with Scottish strongmen, join in festive feasts We'll browse holiday markets, sled down Alps by torchlight, - [Rick] dance with Spaniards, drink lots of beer and light up the sky, with the entire continent fun is our mission. We'll careen all over Europe, the Palio in Siena, carnival in Venice, Slovenia and Luzern, Holy Week in Andalusia April Fair in Sevilla, The Running of the Bulls in Pamplona, Oktoberfest in Munich and Christmas in Nurnberg, Across Europe, festival and are filled with time Entire communities hurled themselves with abandon into the craziness. There's no better example than here in Italy. Siena's Palio. In this gorgeously the Middle Ages seem to It's towering City Hall shell shaped main square, Il Campo. While it streets are peaceful, of civic pride and independence. And twice a year that spirit shows itself in a crazy horse race as The city is divided into 17 These are autonomous, competitive In this densely populated city, most of the year the contrada One small piazza or street but as the Palio approaches, The distinctive flags and line the neighborhood like turtle, eagle, dragon, and a fierce-looking dolphin. All year long citizens prepare, women lovingly stitch vests and banners. (drums pounding) Neighborhood fathers and flag throwing. Any time of year, if you hear drumming, check it out for a taste And twice a year, each July and August, the entire city readies itself as 10 of the 17 neighborhoods, chosen by lottery, Its central square, Il into a medieval race track. Tons of clay are packed atop the cobbles, padding is added to and bleachers and railings are set up in anticipation of the big day. While the horse race lasts for the Sienese, the for many it's a philosophy. Locals joke that in Siena, &quot;You're born, there's the Palio and then you die.&quot; While the jockeys, are hired hands, the horses are the stars. Each neighborhood gets its They're then adopted respected as if special They're groomed and washed right in the city center. In the days leading up to the race, they're frequently paraded for their admiring fans. (hooves thumping) As race day approaches, across the city. Locals belt out, passionate, good luck choruses. (drums pounding) With the waving flags and pounding drums, it all hearkens back to the Middle Ages when rituals like these, each contrada marches into (drums pounding) The centerpiece of the that's the famed and treasured banner, lovingly painted and to whom the race is dedicated. The church is thronged wave their stirring flags in unison to honor the Palio's (trumpet blaring) as the crowd looks upon it reverently. Soon it will be awarded to With the horses and jockeys chosen and the Palio blessed and competing neighborhoods gather that last well into the night. Each banquet is beautifully situated in the heart of the district. It's a multi-generational the young and the very young. There are rousing choruses (crowd cheering) (kids cheering) and little ones soaking up Even if I don't fully the excitement is contagious I feel privileged to that's changed little over the centuries. On the day of the race, those honored to represent their contrada, put on elaborate medieval This requires many assistants, who not only help fit the clothing, but make sure it looks just (drums pounding) In full regalia, the contrada then process to the neighborhood church where there's a colorful flag ceremony, (drums pounding) (spectators applauding) followed by a full-throated (Sianese singing) (Sianese chanting) And finally, the traditional by the priest. (priest speaking in foreign language) &quot;Go and return victorious,&quot; (drums pounding) There's another and flags as each contrada eventually flowing where, before the bishop, they showcase their passion and talents. (drums pounding intensifies) (spectators applauding) After all have gathered at the cathedral, there's one last grand parade through the canyon-like streets. With drums thundering, the (drums pounding) The town converges on its main square (dramatic music) and then with what seems into the Campo, it's time for the race. Bleacher and balcony seats are expensive, (spectators applauding) but standing room with the A cart pulled by oxen carrying the coveted Palio banner, enters. This only increases the Then, 10 snorting horses and their nervous riders The jockeying includes a It's complicated. Then silence takes over. Once the rope drops, there are no rules. (crowd cheering) They race bareback like crazy With nonstop spills and thrills, life in Siena stops for just about 90 seconds (hooves thumping) (dramatic music intensifies) (spectators cheering) and Lupa, the she-wolf district, wins. (spectators cheering) When the winner crosses the line, 1/17 of Siena, the prevailing she-wolf Tears of joy flow, people embrace. The jubilation is over the and for the many neighborhoods joyously celebrating their (spectators applauding) thunders through the streets and up to the cathedral. Once there, they pack the church and the winning contrada Champions until the next race. Along with ritual and pageantry, some festivals originated to train their men to be fit for battle. Warriors, whether in ancient Greece competing in the Olympics, or clansmen gathering here in Scotland, would go at it on the field. And today, communities throughout Scotland still host a Highland from the surrounding their speed, strength, and grace. (bagpipe music) A Highland Games is an all day celebration of local sport and culture, like a track meet and a It's a fine day out for the family, (kid laughing) with a soundtrack of and clan pride showing itself The community cheers on (Scottish band piping) The day's events typically of a parading pipe band led After a lap around the field, the competition begins. In the heavy events, billed brawny kilted athletes push their limits. (Highlander grunts) In the weight throw, competitors before releasing a heavy ball on a chain. The hammer throw involves with an iron ball on a long stick, and the stone put has been as the shot put. In this event, Highlanders over a horizontal bar, that keeps getting higher and higher. (Highlander grunts) And of course there's the caber toss. (spectators applauding) Pick up a giant log called a caber, get a running start and release it, end-over-end to make the caber flip all the way over and land at the 12 o'clock position or not. Meanwhile, the track events run circles around all that muscle. The raises offer fun for all those attending, including events for the kids. - Bend your knees. - [Rick] And visitors from faraway lands are welcome to join in as well. (game host announcing) (bagpipe music) Okay, I think I found my sport, lifting what's called a manhood of these games. - [Rick] Brawny lads impress their girls with a show of strength. Why not? That's good. Thank you. With a wee glass of and carry the 250-pound stone or at least give it (metal clinking) (all laughing) - I'm with you. everything he knows. (spectators cheering) (bagpipe music) (spectators cheering and applauding) There's always a show off. (bagpipe music) And it's not all brute strength. Highland dancing shows off With years of practice, young girls dance with an impressive A lone piper accompanies who tore their routines Within a few years, with the same mastery as the older girls. These Highland Games, like go way back and the time is no accident. It's often tied to the In fact, some of Europe's major festivals are scheduled in the dead of winter. Many modern celebrations are rooted deep in Europe's dark age past. In a time filled with when winters were bleak and hungry, people craved an off-season, pick-me-up. (bell chiming) Throughout the Catholic world, Carnival was the ultimate A memorable way to experience is in the countryside of Slovenia. Whether it's in the a common theme is a visitation Some are called Kurents and others are called These wolly monsters parade through villages making a racket, rattling from door to door, and trying to frighten off winter. Homeowners eventually come to the door and, to quell the clamoring mob, they give the leader a sausage, (bell rattling) and a few cups of wine for the gang. The Ugly Ones swing their This ritual is a remnant when families were persuaded to share food during hard times. Another band of characters A group of ploughmen pull a colorful wagon decked out in ribbons and flowers representing fertility The homeowner is asked for permission to plough for the big turnip. The ploughmen then dragged behind men dressed as horses. This wakes up the soil, in of bountiful crops. Cracking whips announce the procession. (whip cracking) After the symbolic ploughing and sowing, the homeowner offers the and wishes them good (ploughman cheering) (gentle music) The best-known carnival Each winter, carnival casts a spell on Venetians and visitors alike. Following a tradition that the city slips behind a mask of anonymity as Venetian's promenade, pose and pretend to be Authority is challenged, rules are broken. The goal, to indulge in all the pleasures that will be forbidden in Lent. An elegant disguise is both But it's the mask, so symbolic that functions as a cloak of invisibility. The pleasurable appeal of anonymity is as powerful today as As dusk falls, the back streets Now, as then in Venice, In Palazzos off the Grand Canal, elaborately staged parties take the aura of mystery a step further. Behind their masks, all people, from bankers to bakers, are equal. Tonight, no one knows who's who and reality seems a distant dream. And as it was centuries ago, what happens in Venice, stays in Venice (mysterious music) (marching band music) Carnival is celebrated in in Switzerland, where the locals, often considered the most really let loose. (marching band music) And an epicenter of this are the celebrations (marching band music) Before sunrise, the driving wakes the city up like musicians wearing weird masks, and playing loudly, often out of tune, march through the waking town. (marching band music) Today is Mardi Gras, the same Mardi Gras After six days of carnival celebration, this is the climax. Lent and fasting start tomorrow, but today is all about bringing music of all kinds, costumes of all kinds and food of all kinds. What better time for a After sunrise, the bands and order and breakup, wandering randomly throughout the town. (marching band music) The bands play on, the streets of relaxed goodwill. Restaurants are packed. Bands spontaneously take the stage and play enthusiastically. A children's parade is a to carry on this tradition. Even five-star hotels open their doors and let the partying (marching band music) Somehow late in the afternoon, the groups reorganize for a long parade. Band members with famous Themes vary from ancient pagan to political satire, to every creative scene in between. With the end of Fat Tuesday parties, carnival celebrations in Luzern and across Europe are finished. Festival-filled valleys as after Fat Tuesday comes Ash Wednesday and the party is officially over. The end of Carnival coincided with the leanest days of winter. Imagine 4,000 years ago, when these stones marked the seasons. Imagine in ancient times Where did the sun go? Nothing's growing. Will we all starve? But gradually, every year flowers bloomed, crops grew again and the green Back in pagan times, which experts believe functioned to track the sun and mark the seasons. With spring equinox, druids would gather to celebrate the end of winter, and the arrival of birth and fertility. Over the centuries, the church theme of new life and that's Easter. Easter is proceeded by a week when Christians remember progressing from suffering to death to resurrection. (dramatic music) In Spain, Holy Week is It's celebrated with unrivaled most famously in Seville or Sevilla. Here, Semana Santa is an epic and captivates all who participate. On Palm Sunday, the families dressed up head into their parish church for Mass. (bell chiming) Then, promenading with they make a loop through the neighborhood eventually returning to their home church. (dramatic music continues) Afterwards, they visit other each displaying elaborate floats. Sevilla has many religious brotherhoods or fraternities that are of venerable floats that and the Virgin Mary through the streets during Samana Santa. Sevillanos hold a special Floats with Mary evoke great emotions and remind them of the grieving mother who has lost her only son. Every neighborhood church All are the grieving mothers but each one represents a And there are other floats. This one nicknamed La depicts Jesus' grand (dramatic music) La Borriquita leaves its church and begins its procession This marks the official From now on, every day the city is enlivened with These ritual parades of Sevilla 400 years ago. They're designed to present the death and resurrection of Jesus, in a way the average Today, some 60 fraternities carrying floats in processions like these from their parishes to the The journey through miles can take up to 14 hours. Strongmen called As a team, they bear two tons an experience they consider and indeed because of As the floats slowly make moments of great passion occasionally bring everything to a standstill. (flamenco singers serenading) Centuries of flamenco singers with love songs as they Traditionally spontaneous, when a singer is so overcome with emotion, he must break into song. (flamenco singers serenading intensifies) (crowd applauding) (light music) As dusk settles on Sevilla, a long line of silent, one of the city's most moving The float portrays the dead and mourned by the people Among the most dramatic the float is decorated simply, with purple iris and a single red rose, symbolizing the blood Jesus shed. (light music continues) As night closes in, penitents candles sway like fireflies dancing in the dark. The entire Holy Week in Spain After a full day, it's and then the Mary known ethereal and radiant. A shower of petals rains down upon her as if heaven itself is thanking her for her immense and loving sacrifice. (light music continues) (gentle music) In Greece, we are in the city of Nafplio, Easter is celebrated as and as a deeply religious festival with a distinctly By late Saturday night, the people spill from their churches and fill the main square with a palpable sense of expectation. When midnight strikes, fireworks light up the sky, and finally Easter Sunday is here. (fireworks popping) The Holy Flame, which literally travels from Jerusalem to Athens and then to towns throughout Greece, is Easter kiss of love. And it's not over yet, for the biggest party of the season. People carry the Easter flame Raising it above their heads, they make a cross above the doorway, symbolizing that the has blessed their home for another year. A long table awaits as the They have a competition to find out whose Easter egg will be the strongest. (eggs cracking) Sighs of disappointment from losers are mixed with the laughter of winners until the proud victor, who will enjoy a particularly is declared. It's a joyous family gathering. The feast continues into the with lots of meat and eggs and And the feasting continues By the afternoon, in families are grilling lamb, eating, singing, and dancing. It seems there's a spring lamb The roast takes hours It's an all day affair. People move between households, checking on each other's When the spit stops, the feast begins. Lamb off the bone, lamb wine, music, more food, more family fun, more lamb. People party all day long. Eventually the village dancing and singing. Together they celebrate, as they have every year Celebrating the hope of renewal at yet another joyous Easter Sunday. (lively music) As if to continue this celebration some places let loose in One of the most exuberant Sevilla's gigantic Spring Fair. Throughout southern Spain, a region so expert at fiesta and romance, cities like Sevilla greet each spring with a festival for all ages. A festival where the horses are nearly as dressed up as the people. A springtime flirtatiousness fills the air and travelers are more than For seven days each April, is packed into its vast fairgrounds. The fair feels friendly, The Andalusian passion (flamenco dancers singing) and sherry is clear. Riders are ramrod straight, colorfully clad senoritas ride sidesaddle and everyone's drinking sherry spritzers. Women sport outlandish dresses that would look clownish all alone but somehow brilliant here on masses. Hundreds of private party tents Each striped tent is the party zone of a particular family To get in, you need to or make friends quickly. My local friend, Concepcion, - My caseta. No, okay. - [Rick] And as a friend This is your caseta? - [Rick] Because of the exclusivity, it has a real family-affair feeling. Throughout Andalucia, at it seems everyone knows everyone in what seems like a being celebrated all at the same time. Festivals help maintain Pageantry stokes local, (energetic band music) And while annual festivals this celebration of culture can be just as rich on a smaller scale. Traveling through Europe, you can experience a festive that simply makes daily (bagpipe music) Beloved musical traditions cultures to assert their identity, to sing and dance their way Like the Roma people here and throughout Europe. (lively music) People everywhere grab pull on their national costumes and gather together to Here in Bulgaria, dance troupes in colorful dress (dancers chanting) And people celebrate as a nation. In this small Bulgarian town, in a land that uses a different alphabet than most of Europe, the entire population is out on the street for the annual celebration (participants chanting) Patriotic hearts beat of each nation's unique music such as klapa music in Croatia (performers singing in foreign language) (performers singing in foreign language) or rousing folk songs in Romania. (performers singing in foreign language) In Austria, cradle of waltzing is the national dance and hearts beat in three-four time. (classical music) (audience applauding) In the Czech Republic, than listening to lively folk music while enjoying some of with local friends. It's a great way to celebrate wherever you are. (lively music) (performers singing in foreign language) In university towns throughout Spain, roving bands of musicians, are a festival just waiting to happen. (tambourine clanking) These bands are generally Here in Salamanca, a folk preparing for her wedding. (performers singing in foreign language) (hooves thumping) Colorful traditions are to stoke patriotism. Many European countries, but still have constitutional monarchs. And they celebrate their royal heritage with a stirring Changing like this one at London's These martial spectacles, are holdovers from a time when this coordinated show of force helped dispel any thoughts of attack or revolution against the crown. And you'll see cute little ceremonies by cute little countries (marching band music) In Greece, fierce, if galy clad, soldiers remind their citizens of with rituals at the national capital. (fireworks popping) Even though Europe may be unified as one, each country has its own national pride and national holiday. The most famous of these of a monarchy, and the advent France's National Holiday And that means a big party in a patriotic bash. In Paris, that means lots of flags and lots of parties. (lively music) Everyone's welcome to join in. Like towns and villages each neighborhood here hosts parties until late into the night. The local fire department's so I guess it doesn't matter (upbeat music) (fireworks popping) Each year, crowds pack the as a grand fireworks with the Eiffel Tower. (fireworks popping) (revelers cheering) Each country has its iconic celebration. In France, it's fireworks in Italy, it's a crazy horse race, and in Spain, it's bullfighting. Next on our party tour, the Pamplona's Running of the Bulls. (lively music) Officially known as the the Running of the Bulls is perhaps Europe's greatest adrenaline festival. For nine days each July, most dressed in the traditional white with red sashes and kerchiefs, come to run with the bulls The festival, which packs For centuries, the people of this region have honored Saint Fermin, with processions and parties. He was decapitated in the and the red bandanas you see everywhere are a distant reminder of his martyrdom. And you know, I don't think knows or even cares. But at the Church of San and there's no question To this day, locals look to Fermin, their hometown saint, for protection. Back out on the streets, it's There's plenty of fun for kids. And towering giants add a playful mystique to the festivities. (lively music) (revelers applauding) The literary giant, Ernest Hemingway, is celebrated by Pamplona Hemingway first came here for Inspired by the spectacle, he later wrote his bullfighting classic, &quot;The Sun Also Rises.&quot; He said he enjoyed seeing two one on two legs and the other on four. Hemingway put Pamplona on the world map. When he first visited, it with an obscure bull fighting festival. Now, a million people a year come here for one of the world's great parties. After dark, the town erupts While the craziness rages day and night, the city's well organized and it feels in control Amazingly, in just a few hours, this same street will host (gentle music) The Running of the Bulls takes Spectators claim a vantage Early in the morning? Nope. For many of these revelers, The anticipation itself is thrilling. Security crews sweep those Shop windows and doors are boarded up. Fencing is set up to and protect the crowd. The runners are called mozos. While many are just finishing others train for the event. They take the ritual (rocket firing) At 8:00, a rocket is fired Moments later, a second rocket means the bulls have been released. They stampede half a mile through the town from their pens to the bullfighting arena. At full gallop, it goes by fast. (crowd screaming) (lively music) Bulls thunder through the entire route in just two and a half minutes. The mozos try to run in front of the bulls for as long as possible, usually just a few seconds, (crowd screaming) They say on a good run, of the bull on the back of your legs. Cruel as this all seems for the bulls, who scramble for footing as they rush toward their the human participants Each year, dozens of people Over the last century, 15 mozos have been killed at the event. (lively music) After it's done, people and review the highlights on TV. (siren blaring) All day long, local channels replay that morning's spectacle. - Oh, oh. - Oh, oh. - [Rick] The festival's energy Overlooking the main square, the venerable Cafe Iruna (lively music) While the masses fill the streets, VIPs fill the city's ballrooms. It seems everyone is caught up in this Festival of San Fermin. Of Europe's many great festivals, one of the wildest is Germany's favorite annual about 200 years ago with of King Ludwig I. Ludwig's party was such a hit, they've been celebrating every year since. Oktoberfest lasts for two weeks from late September into October. Filling a huge fairground, representing Bavaria, locals set up about 16 huge tents that can each seat several The festivities kick off with heading toward the fairgrounds. The queen of the parade a young woman wearing a monk's with her beer stein raised. With thousands of participants, You'll see traditional of Bavarian society. (matching band music) Elaborately decorated horses and wagons along with keg filled floats, from each of the city's main breweries, entertain the crowds while making their way Revelers fill massive tents After trotting through much of Munich, the parade finally enters the fairgrounds. Dignitaries are formally greeted and another Oktoberfest begins. (spectators applauding) (lively music) From now on, for the next two weeks, it's a beer-fueled frenzy of dancing, music, food, and amusements. There's no better place The tents are surrounded by There's a huge Ferris wheel. The five-loops rollercoaster For locals and tourists alike, And probably best done before Inside the tent, the Bavarian culture is strong here. Each of the tents has a personality. Some are youthful, some It's a festival of German culture. While there are plenty of tourists, it's really dominated by locals who look forward to this annual chance to celebrate Bavaria and its beer. (whistle whistling) (wait staff speaking in foreign language) Fast moving waitresses, hoist The beers are served in each holding a liter of The people watching, Germans is itself entertaining. It's a slap-happy world fancy hats, and maidens with flowers in their hair. It's a multi-generational blowout, complete with smaltzy music (glasses clinking) Rivers of beer are drunk Radishes, pretzels, lots of sausage, all served by saucy maids. (lively music) While I was too tipsy to count, locals claim there are 6 million visitors, 7 million liters of beer drunk, half a million chicken cooked, and a hundred oxen eaten. That's one truly memorable festival. Just a few weeks after Munich folds up, its Octoberfest tense. Germany celebrates in a different way by rolling out its Christmas markets. Perhaps the most beloved Christmas market is about a hundred miles away in Nurnberg. (&quot;O Christmas Tree&quot;) Each Christmas, Nurnberg's main square becomes a festive swirl of sounds, and smells of the holiday season. Long a center of toy making in Germany, a woody and traditional spirit that celebrates local artisans prevails. Nutcrackers are characters of authority, uniformed, strong-jawed, and Smokers, with their feature common folk, like Prune people with their and prune limbs are dolled Bakeries crank out the the Lebkuchen Nurnberg, 17th century recipe. Back then, Nurnberg was the and its love affair with Shoppers can also munch the skinny as your little finger, and sip hot spiced wine. (gentle music) Like Easter, Christmas is built upon a pagan pre-Christian festival. And we celebrate it today with plenty of pre-Christian rituals, often without even knowing it. - Oh, that's a mistletoe. (laughs) - [Rick] In Salzburg, they shoot big guns to scare away evil spirits. (gun booming) In the Tirol, fathers bless their house as their ancestors did. Families, friends and food are (hooves thumping) of magical wonder (bell chiming) (hooves thumping) Italy reveals the sacred from its countryside Nature, in all its wintry glory, seems to shout out the joy - And down the chimney, (speaks faintly) - [Rick] And everywhere, with family, as together Europe remembers the quiet night that that The European Christmas Rather than counting down it's all about traditions and saints days. For example, December 13 is big in Norway. It's Santa Lucia day, one of and an important part of the All over Nordic Europe, little are bringing light to the middle of winter and the promise of the return of summer. These processions are led by a young Lucia wearing a crown of lights (children singing in foreign language) Santa Lucia, Santa Lucia (residents applauding) - [Rick] This home has for over 200 years. And today the kindergartners in more ways than one. The children have baked the traditional San Lucia saffron buns, the same ones these seniors baked when they were kindergartners. Taking their cue from Santa Lucia, Norwegians, cozy in their homes, brighten their long dark winters with lots of candles, white lights. You'll never see a colored And high in Switzerland, and village's huddle below towering peaks, the mighty Alps seem to Up here, Christmas fills with good cheer. (bell chiming) In these villages, traditions are strong (bell chiming) (ax thudding) and warmth is a priority. Stoves are small, so firewood is, too. (ax thudding) (ax thudding) My family has arrived for They've joined me here in the Our friends, Olle and Maria and their kids are giving my kids Andy and Jackie, (family cheering) a good lesson in high (gentle music) (footsteps thumping) Olle is taking us high above his village on a quest to find and cut - Ah, what do you think? - Yeah, this is a good tree. I think we should cut it. - Good job. Thank you. (&quot;Deck the Halls&quot;) (tree creaking) (tree creaking) (tree creaking) - [Rick] Still high above Gimmelwald, we're stopping in a hut (all laughing) - [Rick] Fondue seems perfect in winter after you've come in from the cold. For them, it sets the tone Combined with good friends and family during the Christmas season, we have all the ingredients for a delightful little Alpine festival. (Ollie laughing) Before we know it, the light Here's to a happy Christmas. - Yeah, (&quot;Ave Maria&quot;) As the sun sets, we've got our tree, and enjoy a fairytale (&quot;Ave Maria&quot; continues) - Whoo, hoo! - Whoo, hoo! (kids laughing and cheering) (&quot;Ave Maria&quot; continues) (all faintly laughing) (gentle music) In every part of Europe in big cities and in remote farmsteads, from timeless traditions People embrace life through festivals. They celebrate what the season They bargain with God and show their faith They remember the accomplishments and lives of their forebears. They enjoy fun-loving opportunities to dress in traditional costumes and wave their national flags, all the while gorging and lubricating themselves And all of it may be just an to celebrate family, friends, Festivals help keep Europe's As we've seen, they bring and everybody's welcome. They create lifelong memories and are flat out lots of fun. Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves encouraging Keep on traveling. (lively music) (lively music continues) (lively music continues)