Hello dear viewers! Good Kiev cake is a famous dessert with cream developed at Kievskaya How many adorers the Kiev cake has! it is quite possible to bake it at home we need nut cakes Classic Kiev cake is prepared on fermented whites from yolks. got into the container with proteins! it turned out exactly 200 grams of protein and 117 put it in the refrigerator, We keep proteins in a warm place from 12 When the proteins are fermented, we continue If you do not want to complicate your life and then just use not the freshest refrigerator, and at room temperature. cashew nuts are used, can be replaced you have. Drying nuts in stirring occasionally. Dry until golden color. We get ready-made nuts (with a shredder short combine prepared nuts, sugar (2) and sifted flour. Stir dry ingredients until We send fermented to the mixer bowl Whisk and bowl for whipping proteins free from water and grease. Just in case beat at low speed, When the proteins turn into homogeneous the same size sugar can be added. we wait 20-30 seconds for each addition, add vanilla sugar. speed slightly above average 3-4 minutes. at a speed not higher than average. Power has become smooth, shiny, the corolla leaves keeps its shape well and does not flow out of Pour dry ingredients into stir the mixture with a spatula until trying to grab the entire mass from the bottom and direction, from center to side, Mix only until because the longer we knead Confectionery rings non-stick mat or non-stick the main cakes will be baked for diameter (14-16 cm) we will bake a cake from which It will take about 1/5 of the entire dough, and divide the rest of the dough equally between two forms of 18 centimeters. The sides of the rings or shapes in which we will baking cakes do not need to be oiled. If you will bake split cakes, line the bottom and sides with baking paper. Helping the test evenly distribute inside the ring and send to preheated to 150 degrees oven, in the &quot;Convection&quot; mode and immediately reduce up to 120 degrees. We bake for about 2-2.5 hours, depending on the power of your oven. More precisely, it will not even be baking, but something in between baking and drying. The cakes should lightly brown and acquire a pleasant warm shade. If you do not have convection, then bake at 130 degrees on the &quot;Top-Bottom&quot; setting. When the cakes are baked, let them stand for a while in the turned off oven, and then take them out and let them cool slightly. Carefully free the cakes from the molds using a knife. From a small cake we make crumbs, it crumbles very easily by hand, it is not even necessary to use a chopper. Let the cakes cool completely. In order for them to acquire a drier and crisper structure, it is recommended to keep them in a dry room for 12 hours to 24 hours until the cake is assembled. To use all products, prepare Charlotte cream on yolks. We take out the remaining 6 yolks from the refrigerator. Pour milk into a saucepan or ladle with a thick bottom and add sugar. We put on the stove and, stirring, bring it almost to a boil. In a separate container, mix the yolks thoroughly and gradually in a thin stream, so that the yolks do not curl, add hot milk syrup, stirring continuously. We return mix in a ladle, put it on the stove again on minimum heat and bring the mixture to thickening, while constantly stirring intensively. As a result, should get the consistency of not thick condensed milk. Remove from the stove and pour into another container, thus stopping the process of cooking syrup. Cover with foil in contact and leave to cool when room temperature. After cooling, the syrup thickened a little more, but not much. Whisk in soft butter at room temperature with vanilla sugar. Beat white, until fluffy. Ideal for whipping the temperature of the butter is 20-21 degrees. Into well-whipped butter without interrupting whipping, add in small portions, cooled to room temperature, custard base. It is very important that the butter and custard syrup had the same temperature, otherwise the cream runs the risk of exfoliation. It is also very important to use high-quality butter, fat content not less than 82.5%. If the oil contains a large the amount of vegetable fat, the cream may separate. Charlotte cream is ready! Immediately set aside some white cream for decoration, about 1-2 tablespoons. Divide the remaining cream in half. In one part of the cream, if desired, add cognac and mix again with a mixer. This will be the cream for the cake layer. In the other part, through a strainer, add cocoa and mix. This is a cream for cover the top and sides of the cake. I use alkalized cocoa powder, it gives more rich color and taste. If you have regular cocoa powder, it comes in different qualities, add more if necessary. Let's start assembling the cake. Apply a little cream to the substrate so that the cake does not slid. Place the first cake with the smooth side down. Set around ring and spread the prepared white cream. We put the second cake smooth side up and press lightly. We put the cake in the refrigerator for stabilize the cream for about one hour. The cream has frozen well now easy to remove the ring. Cover the top and sides of the cake with cocoa cream. Slightly level the cake and sprinkle the sides with prepared crumbs. Abandoned draw a mesh on the surface of the cake with white cream. For this, I installed narrow smooth nozzle. Then I change the nozzle to a closed asterisk and make a side of cream, planting small flowers. For the final decor, I added ready-made waffle decorative pastry decorations in the form of pink flowers and green leaves. Here's a cake turns out. Now it can be served on the festive table or just for tea at dinner. This is how the cake turns out in the cut. It tastes like just unmatched. Be sure to cook! Be sure to subscribe to my channel!