- Look at this arrangement These two springs are joined together by this short bit of blue rope and there's a weight on the bottom. There's also a red rope and a green rope. The red and green ropes are slack. They're not taking any of the weight. So the question is what will happen when I cut the blue rope? I mean, look, you could think and try to work out if the Or you could just consider the fact that I'm making a video about it. So it's probably the Like, this blue rope is in tension. So when I cut it, I will So surely the weight will go down. Let's see what happens. This video is sponsored by Fasthosts. Viewers in the UK have a from home bundle worth 5,000 pounds, if you can answer my techy test question. The link is in the description. More about that at the end of the video. (weight thumps) Isn't that crazy? The weight goes up. Why does it do that? Well, when you add a weight to And of course, if the it would extend twice as far like this. But actually if you before the blue rope was cut, that's exactly what we have. The blue and green ropes are slack. They're not doing anything. They might as well not be there. And so we have a spring plus this little bit. So these two springs together as one spring would on its own. You could say that these but what would happen if you Okay, so start again with and then add a second spring like this. Now the weight is shared This spring takes half the weight. This spring takes half the weight. If you half the weight on a spring, it should extend half as far. And look, that's what we see. Actually, it's not exactly what we see because my springs aren't ideal springs. They don't follow Hooke's Law. But anyway what's interesting is what we have after Look, two springs in parallel. It's just that they've both on them as well. So the reason the weight moves is because you're switching to two springs in parallel. But then I was like, &quot;Hold on, hold on. If I were to slowly extend the blue rope, instead of cutting it, surely Like my brain wasn't happy, still. So look, here's the set up here. I can slowly release the blue rope and watch what happens as I do that. Actually the weight does go down. But it only goes down until the red and green ropes become taut. And then as I release more the weight goes up again. It's at that point when the red that you begin to transition from springs in series What's really cool is of springs and rope is actually an analogy for a traffic-based paradox Imagine we've got two towns, A and B, with a network of roads between them. The red and green roads here The silver roads are really The blue road is really The red, green and blue roads are so wide, they never get congested. It doesn't matter how many it always takes 11 minutes and 11 minutes to travel down the red road and one minute to travel The silver roads are so narrow, the travel time depends on how because they get congested. For simplicity, let's say that the silver roads take for every 100 cars that Let's imagine there are 800 and they all take this route. So it's eight minutes and eight minutes here. That's 17 minutes in total. But is that what drivers Would they all take this same route? Or would some drivers Well, a driver could switch But both those routes take 19 minutes, which is more than 17 minutes. So no individual driver What we have is an equilibrium. All drivers taking this because it doesn't make sense to change route. How does this relate to Well, the weight is like the and how far down the weight The green, blue, and red roads are like the green, blue and red ropes. It doesn't matter how much They don't get any longer. Just like it doesn't matter on those roads, the travel time doesn't The silver roads are like the springs. The more weight you the lower the weight goes. Just like the more cars you the longer the travel In this setup, the green They're not being used in the same way that the green and red So what happens when Well, there are now two And assuming that drivers can have up-to-date maybe because they've got then a new equilibrium will be reached, where half the cars take one route and half the cars take the other route. That means there are now 400 cars on each of those silver roads. So the total travel time for any one car is now four plus 11 equals 15 minutes. And that's less than the 17 minutes we had before the blue road was cut. And that's Braess's Paradox. By removing a short fast you might actually decrease travel time. It's almost like a multi-player version of the prisoner's dilemma. And this isn't just an academic curiosity. It's happened in real life. We know that in Seoul and where the removal of a road has to go down without the number of cars on the road going down. But surely if you added the drivers would choose to faster outer routes. But with everyone using look how attractive the blue route is. Four minutes plus one equals nine minutes, compared to the 15 minutes So it makes sense for to defect to the blue route. And unfortunately, makes the blue route a little bit worse, but it also makes the outer as well. In fact, the blue route So all drivers will and it will be worse. You know, if all the drivers could agree to not use the blue road then we could keep it from here to here. Wouldn't that be nice? Unfortunately, humans so it can't happen. Except maybe one day, we with a hive mind. Like if self-driving cars take and these self-driving then maybe one day we can of optimization. It's never going to happen, is it? Like even if all the car to write software that acts there's always going to ready to override the software and say, &quot;Do you know what? Take me the fastest route this time.&quot; Anyway, thanks to George Maveron Nicholas for the idea for this video. I appreciate it. This video is sponsored by web If you want to get your website up and running really quickly, take a look at their They're really intuitive to use and they work on desktop So you don't need to worry and stuff like that. Though if you do want to get your hands dirty, you can put your own I know what you guys are like. You can get two months absolutely free and there's a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can try it out no strings attached. If you want to do it your own way, check out their secure web so your website's not going to go down if you get a spike in traffic. You get a free domain for the first year and hosting plans start from just one pound a month. Viewers in the UK have a chance to win the ultimate work from home bundle worth 5,000 pounds, if you can answer my techy &quot;What is the default port for HTTPS?&quot; The link to enter is in the description. So check out Fasthosts today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (bright music)