Everyone. Welcome. David Sanger. So, good evening and welcome to tonight's My name is Phillip Yan and I am the co-CEO And I've happened to had the privilege 30 years on Asia related issues, And so today you're with us to hear seat to the mechanization and politics in Washington, Moscow And a person who has the amazing talent and privilege and ability David Sanger is the White House and security correspondent and he joins us for a conversation today that has emerged In his new book, China's Rise, Russia's Invasion and America's Struggle to Defend the West. David Sanger explores the changing nature of superpowers and global conflict, and he reflects on world politics David, welcome. Thank you. Congratulations on your book. The The Commonwealth Club I think I've been here I've written, and it's always And we were just talking. I've known David We haven't seen each other and we were talking about nuclear weapons And so it's. We will be again tonight. Don't worry. They've they haven't gone away, So the way we the way I usually do this is are big picture issues that David really And we're going to talk about maybe some specific questions I mean, David's book covers so much. And so what I'm going to do is just touch like a smorgasbord, really, And then hopefully that we have set aside for you, for me as we move forward. Okay. So big picture, The last ten years, I've really talked Now, a lot of people were didn't the world is never going to be the same. And I know that, David, you've been And your book, in essence, looks at this So the book covers the last 50 years, but it really focuses more and the interplay between Russia, China And what I found really interesting all these specific instances and that David will allude to. I mean, so, yes, But your book is not just about where and how, but you connect the dots, and as a as a reporter, So with the end of the Cold War in 1989, We talk about the end of history Francis Fukuyama that he famously coined we talked about the post-Cold War world when I was in government, we never knew that transformed into globalization. And yet it seems that it hasn't quite And so you as you said in your preface, this is a story, your book after the Cold War ended the last Cold War So tell us what you mean. Sure. Well, first, Phil's And thank you for coming out because it's So we really appreciate This is first and foremost, Phil, as you would expect from me, It is not a pontification Now set out some questions about how it is that we could have so misjudged what the world would look like, that we believe And it wasn't just Francis Fukuyama. He takes a lot of heat for that, I mean, I remember going with Bill Clinton toward the end of his time in office, Well, first of all, What a concept. Right. As if there was a cafe. There was a cafe set up specifically Yeah, this was free wi fi. And then he went to Beijing University on how the Internet would not only set but how it would undercut the authority You know, I was working at the White House seconded to put that all together. So I remember that. Very day, Amazing speech. It was an amazing speech. And when you look back at it now, you're like, my God, Because it turned out in the end and other digital technologies the instrument of exquisite control that has kept the Communist Party in place despite all the forces Yeah, It enabled them so that they could make sure they knew And your chance of escaping It became a way to It became a subject of repression in or tool of repression in Tibet. And so it was just a classic example of how our understanding that everyone would see how everyone else lives, the freedoms they lived you know, would bring about peaceful It turned out And this was a pretty bipartisan thing. And the first chapter of the book and a few other people here, When you get to chapter one, after whether the Ukraine war or float down the Never river and Putin and his then wife and the never, And it's one of those late May nights There is music coming off of the boat. I was in the boats called the pool boat. Right behind it. The reporters and when we did, who was standing behind and the image just stuck. And my mother had no idea who he was. And of course, when I went back with my wonderful researcher and I were working on the book. Mary, we've got to go find We found video in the end, Right. Well, in the days before he got around to trying through the Internet Research Agency, and certainly before he did on Moscow last year and then. His plane was shot down. Right. Well, it blew up mysteriously. I can't imagine. So that moment And what was remarkable about the dinner It was Putin talking about whether Russia And you'll remember this and Bush days, Right, Right, right. That was the. Whole idea was wouldn't of the sort of end of history moment if Russia joined the alliance to contain the Soviet Union And so what happened over and this occupies Yeah. Was that with in both Russia's case we took every small moment when we were all working together So so you talk about Russia the point there was a very similar thing Right. And we'll talk a little bit about that at China. So for China, in Russia's case, we had early warning Right? Right. I mean, they Putin turned to do things that we'll talk about You had two or three leaders in a row some fruits of democratization You'll remember There was discussion of Chinese style Nobody thought it was going to look like anything But it had elements to it. The turn for China really came Right. And we got him wrong. Right. And, you know, you talk about We all think about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction and, To my mind, given the import of China to the United States, the country that wants to be power by 2049, the anniversary of of Mao's creation getting this one wrong was really bad. So when Xi Jinping was vice president, our own vice president, to go out, develop She traveled in the United States. Biden went traveled around remote parts of China together. And as Biden himself will say, than any other leader in the world. Unfortunately, Xi Jinping than the one And so what did we miss? We miss Xi's secret speeches to build up their nuclear force Four which, by the way, We missed his decision and basically throw out the agreements We missed his crackdown on free press. We missed his build up against Taiwan. In fact, the intelligence reports to focus on the domestic economy So it seems. Okay. Then one of the things as an individual seems like it it seems like what you're saying had he is the one who has caused The work. By and large, he's he's taken the path So talk about you you talked about this secret speech in January 2013, Talk about that in terms of the impact of that and because for so long you know, China has never really been one They want to get along into the world. And that was sort of the consensus Now it's changed. So the roots of our misperception, So obviously wildly different societies, but we fundamentally convinced ourselves that at the end of the day, of the Chinese economy, the ability to sell into this market, case, the ability to sell oil their territorial ambitions, and influence in other ways, on to Western institutions, because it would be too important to them So really interesting question. How did we come to this conclusion Yeah, right. Yeah. I mean, we had at least a 5050 shot Right, right, right. In that and and we failed to. And why why do you think that is. So a bit of Okay. But these are hard to penetrate. Yeah societies A good deal of it was that emerged and thus we will remain the unique power, And there were people out at the time Go ask the Portuguese the world, you know, And the food and wine, that's fabulous. But running the world is not like And I think the other thing that happened the classic projection And not. To that to that. Right. So, you know, but I would say who basically came to the conclusion would always act because that's how he thought We're always going just not the case. It was not in Putin's economic interest to invade Ukraine. It was not necessarily in Xi Jinping's economic interest The one place that has long been and yet their hierarchy So here's what I so what you should is that you put a lot of the relationships you know, relationship with China and the United States and then Russia and the United States And you go through the first part And in some ways you're saying, here's So I you know, with respect to Russia, you kind of alluded to this, but can you I mean, some people were talking when the Cold War ended, We were thinking that, you know, you know, NAITO expansion Tell us a little bit about that, it affected Putin, at that point in time, you know, of some animosity Correct. There was an animosity mixed with a sort of self-hatred in Russia of what had what had gone on. So obviously, as the former Soviet republics break up, several of them, decide There were people at the time, who was still alive, that this is going to create that will force the Russians My own view is having told these countries it would have been really hard for them to say if you have if you've met the conditions to join NATO, Right. Essentially Yeah. And so I think they sort of What's interesting is what Putin's trying to do If you read his words and you listen to He thinks the people Okay? Who gave too much power and independence And they then felt free to break away. When you listen to his own words, is the Russia and Greater Russia of Peter And you go in his office, There are no photos, there are no photos, no paintings of the great Communist There's a bust of Peter the Great. It's not so subtle. Okay. And so Ukraine was a piece of this, and so we weren't listening So in 2007, five years after that float down, Security Conference, which is, Right, right, right. And others here And he gives a speech of period of great old Russia Bob Gates, then the defense secretary, stood up and said, He had been, of course, He said, I'm It wasn't so much fun the first time, but people moved on. We didn't even put this on the front page. Remember the one Yeah, Yeah, we had a front page. Yeah. Anyway, And this is something we missed. That So seven years later, this chapter is With apologies to Marilyn Monroe. Seven years later, he takes Crimea and Obama looks and says, Look, I'm not going to war that Khrushchev gave back to Ukraine in the late 1950s. So the US was going to step in The sanctions that ultimately were to put them together and then only when Right, right, right. Okay. So what is Putin that the West doesn't that they'll do sanctions that will make them feel good And we move on. We get to seven years after that We can talk about those moments later on. I don't think he came to So let's think about Is there kind of a, you know, the historical context I mean, you allude to a little bit, what China was feeling actually seemed to be, Sure. So China was different but it was never considered to the United States, And I tell the story because I had just from years I went with Bob Rubin, to China. It was only the second time ever been to China, you know, And I asked. Rubin on the way over, certainly in your 25 years of Goldman Sachs, And he looked at me, He said, we never thought it was a big The trip. Changed. Deng Life, life changes. And so he goes and we do the Great Wall he meets the Chinese leaders where he can see starting up and asking them about Kong Stock Exchange You know, and they're looking Right. And but this was all about channeling China into the system. And at the apotheosis of this was getting them to join the World And the theory was that over time, would so move in on the Chinese a European member of the Reich did. What was not discussed was the possibility that China was joining these institutions to fit China's rules, which is essentially what has happened over the past, you know, 15, 20 years, but also with the groups that set rules that set rules for what we consider to be regulated speech. So that is what really took off in the Xi Jinping era. The other thing was when you were working we never really thought about China because they set a minimum deterrent, weapons, enough in Los Angeles if they ever needed to, but not enough This is a comparison. I think China like, you know, three or 400 nuclear weapons, And it was just for them to say, if you So that's right. They actually had until a few years ago, Yes, two. Hundred. They are now at 500. Yeah. And President Trump kept saying, our arms control agreements with Russia And the Chinese came back and said, well, one of two ways. Either we'll build up to your numbers, which Trump administration We both have 150 deployed, right? Or you guys can cut your arsenals that we weren't It was somewhat of a brilliant play. Right? Right. Think about it. And then So do you feel like China? The Chinese always looked at the United States in retrospect, as their relationship It evolved, So first of all, we captivated ourselves mostly just to steal our designs and our, you know, and they did steal some. The F-35, the most expensive fighter jet and they managed internal designs looks very much like our F-35. We've heard a lot of that, too. But then we got ourselves all the Chinese do is steal and imitate, when in fact they had started up 2025 program quite openly to get to be self-sufficient battery technology, biological products, artificial intelligence, all the areas that two years ago that maybe we ought to be funding as well. So they've had a consistent And I tell the semiconductor story We'll touch on that a little bit. But so they were living off of what they were doing In 2015, intensively for a year, year and a half. China and Russia were sitting on our side If we ever got those talks going, which but if we did, They would be on the other side. Yeah, yeah, we worked on we were both covering that So let me switch gears actually to the big picture because it was you know, kind of your assessment in terms And it was sort of our approach, which I can only think of as a you know, an output. Right. And what you said is one characteristic particularly after the United States and Iraq, was Washington other countries actions than Americans Okay. And then you talk about something that a quote from security adviser McMaster, basically the United States of strategic narcissism. So I thought that was quite interesting. And I think it's something as a way to think about Yeah. So McMaster was the most interesting of Trump's four national security advisers. That's a lot of national security It's a one term president, right? I mean, but four national security advisers. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So McMaster, of course, was brought in went up in flames about a month into the Trump presidency. And he came in determined to write the national security Strategy, and he use it to try to turn the U.S. government away and toward an age And he actually wrote a really interesting well put together That was an effort to try to turn the ship here. I remember we sat down, We talked it through. I had been talking to the staff And it would have been perfect, President Trump out to announce it, And he gave a really good speech But in fact, what that strategy did was begin that we had put all the incentives chasing down al Qaeda and so forth. And that meanwhile, the rest of the adversaries of old superpower But the strategic narcissism piece of it was the assumption that it's within our power to shape And when you have the rise but but others as well, our relative influence And you have to pick your battles Think of today. You know, Biden had wanted to move the US out of the Middle East that has been talked about And the Middle He wasn't other than managing its disruptions and let it go into sort of soft decline when suddenly he finds himself having to go fund So we have to make some choices. And it's no surprise that we've seen We've had it many times in our history Let's just all retreat back Anyone comes for us, we're going to make them pay a price, And, you know, we've tried this and it's always turned out the same way, which is we may not be interested They're interested in us and our interests So let's pull on that just really quickly. So you have H.R. McMaster, big picture strategic thinker. He sort of moves you know, U.S. policy towards big power thing, You have another person that Pottinger, who was in the Security and. Probably of President Trump's and stayed on through Interestingly, Former Wall Street really interesting and Mandarin speaker. Right. And this is what we sort of lost There were some highly qualified people who were beginning They just got stepped on by all the chaos. Right. And so in the same way. So I guess what so just to fill So Pottinger policy towards China The interesting thing really impressive people, and then Donald Trump He does. He's he I mean, partly but partly because he was always in pursuit of that one time deal So at there, there are phone calls where he basically says, I'm not going Go do what you need to do. As long as I can get my trade deal. You know, he always and so there was none of the strategic that would have put together the good work they were thinking about and even countries that are debating don't adopt systems around? Weiwei technology? Because once they do, for their telecommunications How do you begin to lower American and on China How do you build up the industry here? But they could never quite get it executed because the president wouldn't sit So we're an election year, I noticed. Yeah. Yeah. And one of the candidates is surely to become is is Donald Trump. Can you speculate a little bit if if he is elected Because you have that tension of, it seems like the Biden administration, followed foundations that was put in Right. Right. But I we we don't have much guarantee Like right after. First of all, we have no idea in the first term, Trump was determined they should be in the job. He kept saying, what he thought And he picked him in part well, And it, of course, dealt And, you know, I covered Tillerson. It was really interesting. Here's somebody who had never been and he spent his first couple of months told me in the State Department, examining its reporting structure if you could reduce the staff by 30% because he had done that at Exxon and it had brought about significant cost and efficiency savings and Exxon and the State Department So you would have thought about maybe the new combinations of power But he decided to spend Ultimately, he said some unpleasant things about President Trump. I think after a meeting in which if we have all these nuclear weapons, And that was the beginning of the end And Trump, who started off by saying that that Tillerson looked just like what a secretary of state should look like I think the phrase was dumb as a. Rock, Yeah. Okay. So just a reminder, If you have questions And we have some people who will be please let us know and we'll will But just to finish the thought on that. So in the first term, though, he managed you know, serious foreign policy My guess is that a next to look like his last year in office, your foreign policy Okay. Okay. Something to think about. Let's talk I mean, one of the things is just the access that you've gotten and. I think people here and those listening would be interested So I'll have to just so quick History is personalities, right? As we have seen in the in the the two relationships that we're and they are and what their intent is It's absolutely critical And we're we're going to go. So can you give us a flavor of anything you know, Vladimir Putin, you know, tell us about him as a as an individual and, you know, keep mind about him So I'm a reporter, not a psychologist. So I'm probably dangerous doing this. Insecurity strikes me with with Putin. You know, first and foremost, it drove him crazy in 2012 and 2013 when Hillary Clinton publicly suggested that for wasn't even for president, for the for the Russian parliament. And that led to protests which he then claimed had been American inspired. And I'm absolutely convinced and did the 2016 election so far but for Trump was in part out of his anger The secretary of state tells you G On the other hand, highly secretive, never gave any real indication of where he was going, but clearly had a plan in his mind to build up the state and and take on the U.S. He came to the Rose Garden in a visit to Clinton and a visit to Obama in around 2016 or 2017, of Personnel Management, and stolen 22 million security clearance files. Including. Mowers. Yeah. Yes, it was really good reading. Phil Yeah, And and these are not just as you remember, This is not just like, This is your entire financial history. It's every relationship you've ever been Yeah, You know, it's pretty fulsome stuff. We them unencrypted and inside the computer systems where they got the same protections migration in in the west. And they shipped them out for a year Okay. And so then Obama has them to reach some kind of cyber agreement, But what was interesting was that she stood in the I have no intention of militarizing Right. Right. A year later, we're running being built flying wingtip to wingtip on these islands So he has no problem stating outright something that he knew at the time So it seems like I mean, South China Sea, in sort of the policy making, and it was sort of sleepy water I got that particular issue because no one else I learned the last 30 years, this, this salami Right. Little bit, little bit, Do you see that happening? That's going to continue. And you see it around the world. So what's happening now, Phil, is that we are going around the world So the other day corporate announcement that you wouldn't pages of the business section of the Times or of the Wall Street investment of $1.5 billion in a UAE company that does artificial intelligence called G42. This deal was conceived of inside the White House, Okay? It was conceived of there out of the fear that China was gradually getting in the Mideast and spreading on to Africa, we were going to bring the UAE together that you were trained but actually having a trusted and sitting on the board And I went to go talk to Gina Raimondo, who's been one of the most fascinating At the core of the equipment to the Chinese And the way she phrased it to me, She said. When it comes to advanced technology, you can't be in China's camp and be in the American camp. You have to choose. So do you think it's not so? That's really interesting. I want I also want you to talk about The Solomon Islands. And yet it's a very interesting and quite But don't you think China is doing And they're doing it And they're doing it with Weiwei, Right. And you don't build It's a little expensive, right? So you're either going to wire it up or you're going to wire it up with the Chinese system and you wire it up Guess And this is the essential argument Yeah, right, right. So Tik Tok is interesting another piece of Chinese software that is used ubiquitously by American consumers Right. Right. And we've never really managed it. But why are we worried about Tik tok? Are you worried that they're going Well, as we learn from the OPM case, they don't need to be in your iPhone They've got it already. Thank you. But people are getting a lot of their news It pains me as a New York Times reporter. It's true. Okay. And so if you don't understand, the algorithm Yeah. Then suddenly we're in a world how you're getting that information Remember, there are old laws allow foreign ownership of TV stations, And yet Tik Tok is covered because it's not a TV station And China, of course, does not allow does not allow in China. So what we have created in the information is essentially a new Iron curtain. There's a physical one that we were In the new Cold War is you have to think So looking back, do you think it would have been possible we're not going to allow TikTok in unless you alert But it could have been. But Tik Tok Yeah. Who knew what that. One knew what it was. And then, you know, it came as dance you know, And I just wrote in The Times last week and a big series of stories I came to Tik Tok. It was a parenting problem, Right. Right. And I have come around on that view. I am with you. My son is on that a lot They get their news from it. It is unbelievable. It is unbelievable. Now, imagine for a moment that let's say of the United States and your approval Okay. But you're hoping for the young vote. You're going to turn around between now and the election? Yeah, I don't think so. I don't. Think. Okay, so I have a I have an outline Our our conversation is going So let me talk. Let's talk. Big deal here And it's a big deal all over the country. We're the home as a home of the Bay Area to AI and you talk about the implications war, international relations, Can you just outlined People need to hear this. Sure. So let's just start with Ukraine. Yeah, In the run pretty exquisite intelligence Russia was getting ready to invade. It made a lot of this public, And I describe that at length in the book. But in the end, that the Russians were really ready didn't come from our spy satellites, didn't come from some spy sitting, It came from some software engineers activate malware that they had That message over to the White House and fit in So it's a big story. We had corporate America Right? Right. Microsoft and Amazon World Systems, eight of us in one week's time put the entire Ukrainian government their pension records, their ability to communicate back All that. Why? Because at the time, Ukraine was operating by law, had to keep all the information And everybody is pointing out to them. As soon as the Russians put a missile you are out of business as a government And sure enough, the Russians What had we not thought about that if they didn't have a way they weren't going to get their own data And it was Elon Musk who came along Now we all have other issues with Elon Okay. And we're only like a few blocks I'll be careful what I say because I only got my blue Okay. Okay. We'll be watching for that. Okay. But but fact of the matter is that he put them back in the communications Isaacson wrote about in the Musk the Ukrainians call him and ask him to turn on StarLink around Crimea so that they can target it some Russian ships that are around there And Musk refuses to do it because somebody had told him that's going to start a nuclear war, it's Russia using nuclear weapons. So think about this for a minute. Suddenly, that you would normally expect, maybe the secretary of defense Right. That's a pretty empowered private sector. So do you think that Well, the implication the ubiquity of technology, which I believe is going to become sort for us as we move forward, and corporations are going to have They already. Do. They already do, but they're going to also that traditionally They already did. So they signed on Microsoft, Amazon, Google with Ukraine. They took sides right away. yes, the companies can no longer afford I'm going to stay above So here's a question. So thank you for your question. Is going to start going And I apologize if I'm not don't have a get a chance to get to it. So here's something that you and I you know, when I last saw you, we talked about extensively So what is the state of the U.S. weapons stockpile? Are we replacing weapons So I think we're talking about here let's talk about the nuclear issue, that that Putin used Now, let's define tactical nuclear weapons and tell us why So first, I think the question that you just read about non-nuclear, non-nuclear. Okay. Let me just touch on that briefly. We've learned a lot of things from Ukraine one of the ending chapters about for what works and what didn't. Yeah, but the biggest shock we've had that Roosevelt revved up, because we had We have one factory in the United States, that turned out because who was going to go fight Again, it's about two miles from the house Scranton, Pennsylvania. It's the only one. That was it. There are now others getting going. They had to go find these old retired guys to show some younger workers how to actually use this machinery Okay. It was it we were in that bad shape and we were in good shape Now, on to your nuclear question. Yes, there was in October of 2022. It happened, Phil, to be the 60th anniversary Right? Right. And the US picked up through intelligence. You'll read about in the book intercepts of Russian generals for the first time These are small battlefield sort of shoot and using them against Ukraine. So think about this. A nuclear armed state preparing to use nuclear against a non-nuclear state. And that was a pretty big panic They sent Bill There was one weekend talked to his counterpart twice the Joint Chiefs thought his had it not been for the fact went to a fundraiser, of all places, Rival. Murdoch, James Murdoch being the sort of And so standing around with their glasses of wine And Biden comes in and says, We are facing right now of the use of a nuclear weapon and he didn't mean like at some point he meant like in the next two weeks and we're facing a situation we haven't because I'm convinced if there is the beginning you don't stop the pathway His staff came to call this Biden's There were no cameras. There were press there. We reported on it at the time. Every alarm bell in my head went off, And I called one of his aides and I said, He said, well, it's exactly That's okay. And, you know, that began to unravel the question Interestingly They were successful Prime Minister Modi in India to go make public statements is no excuse for the use But I don't think this is over. So do you do you given what you know, do you think that there is a very, very real possibility that tactical nukes, Okay. No question. No question in my mind. Okay. Interesting. If they feel that they are losing, losing call in there called the Nuclear Paradox, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs, who said to me over lunch one day, you know, David, the here is the better job ambitions in Ukraine, the higher Yeah, that that's yeah, that's, And just to be clear, what you said, that nuclear weren't in at any point like beyond, But what was basically maybe 5.5% chance suddenly expanded to something Big like 50. Percent. Yeah, right. Yeah. And that's it. Everybody from the secretary of state to others said to me at that moment, if the Russians felt they were losing out of Ukraine, which in of 2022, People were talking about a significant Hard to imagine in today's battlefield That's the situation in which Okay. So the next question that should be asked I mean, there's a fascinating I mean, you have to read the book You know, I didn't even had a chance And if you want to add a little bit what's the end game What do you think? That's a question And that was something that I wanted to ask you, given the nuclear paradox We don't want to back Russia in a corner. What what. A solution. So first, had Congress not done what they did on Saturday, So the passage. Of the passage of the additional $60 will give a shot in the arm. Yes. To the Ukrainians. I don't think it is sufficient but it is necessary And had they not gotten it, Bill Burns said outright last week at a talk he was giving in Connecticut, high chance they would plain old Okay. Okay. So big now that this was passed. Big deal. It was passed. A good chunk of that money just goes To the earlier question you got. So not all but it also sends a signal The delay, the debate, the fracturing inside the Republican Party the Democratic Party from the progressives does send a message to the Europeans that even like Joe Biden or somebody like Joe Biden in office, that we were going to go And so if you're the Ukrainians, how do I fight this war? I'm on a budget My own view is at some point they're probably going with the Russians, When President Trump says, I don't know exactly what he has in mind, other than go in this belongs to Russia Biden has said nothing about Ukraine but it's really hard to imagine Selenski surviving a situation in which he voluntarily goes into negotiation What I argue at the end of the book is not by its current borders, think about what does Ukraine need. And I see three things They need to be able that are the core of the economy and they need a pathway to the sea Right. Right. And but that's got You know, it can't come from us. Or anyone else. So. Okay, I have one quick question. I have a question. It's a long I mean, it's a question I don't know if you can answer it And it really you know, and kind of where we are And you close the book that we're of the Cold War, Russia and I mean USSR of open great power competition the First World War. Both of those times, the 19 5060s and the 19 1890s, you know, to. Pre rule in 1914. 14. Right. Both big power competition that reshaped the entire a high tensions arms race with proxies with distinct spheres of influence So this one is how do you think You know, if I could do that, I would. I certainly could make more money Yeah. However, I think there is is there are But the book is called New Cold Wars The old Cold War had a certain We knew how many weapons they had. They knew how many weapons we had. We knew who had launch authority In this new era, we are seeing now and China in an uneasy partnership, There was a lot of division administration, about whether that was for I had the number three in the Pentagon. Tell me day he thought it was actually The next day I asked Biden I don't think these guys can ever Okay. My guess is he's revised his view. That combination, how Russia and China come together may answer the question of what this era is more like. Second, we need a strategy in which we're thinking about The reason that Nixon and Kissinger did was to prevent And Kissinger talked about this that this was coming to pass. To have that strategy, in the United States, And it doesn't change every four years That's right. And we have lost the ability fill in. This really bothers me the most to debate these strategies If you go back to the Nixon and you turn the video who looks young and sweaty and you just listen to the content. It was a deep, interesting argument about how you contain the Soviet Union could you imagine Americans sitting Probably not. Probably not. Right. And that is because the 30 year holiday about superpower conflict, to think strategically about what we want And you're seeing that in the divisions you know, traditional Republicans and a gr we need to be able to debate out internally to the parties, that I'm not sure we really have And let's set aside for the fact at this particular highly unusual, in the nature of these candidates. But part of why I wrote this book was to try in my own small way, Right. Right. So we've we've run out of time. And I had so many more questions Please come and ask those questions. I'll come. Back. We'll do a second session. This is great. And I think you we because that's why we here at Commonwealth And so to have that kind of open debate, Everyone, please give a hand to David You know, and I thank you all for joining us. Really appreciate it. You can get your hands New Cold War, China's rise, Russia's invasion And right now outside, And if you would like to engage who haven't joined, you should join Please visit our website at dot a w w w that will a common Commonwealth Thank you all for joining us. Thank you. It's great