This is a video about how we design things. It's a video about priorities, and how for the sake of convenience and vice versa, towards those sacrifices we make, and the As I'm sure you've gathered from the title, Well, actually, refrigeration more broadly. But to make the point I'd like to with this one of these little beauties. This is a perfectly ordinary chest freezer. It's a box with a lid that keeps things Now, on its surface this isn't remarkable But, if you know anything about chest freezers, small amount of energy to do their thing. And the reason that's possible is because To start, let's consider what refrigerators Their most basic task is to move heat energy They're in a constant battle with ambient If you want there to be a space that's colder well you're gonna discover pretty quick that all the energy around that space would really like to spread out and so it will eventually find its way inside Entropy's a pernicious little monster. The miracle of refrigeration has allowed us Using nothing more than a compressor, a couple specific chemicals, we can say "Screw you, entropy!" and reverse the natural order of things. How? Well, we don't need to get into the specifics multiple times, and, uh, I'm doing that... yet again. I... I really just want to find or come up with a sorry. Suffice it to say that we take a chemical energy around on our command. By manipulating the pressure the chemical and by controlling where and when it boils we can exploit the latent heat of vaporization. The miracle of refrigeration is that the energy we put into the system through mechanical compression of the refrigerant is only a fraction In other words, say you expend 100 watts of electrical energy in a compressor of a refrigeration system. That system is now able to move the equivalent It's really neat, and using refrigeration in reverse to concentrate heat energy rather than to disperse it (we usually call this device a heat pump) will likely be instrumental in our fight against climate change. All we need is refrigerants with a small global to see commercial deployment, such as R-1234yf. Anyway, setting aside the mechanical bits piece of refrigeration equipment in this world its insides and the outside world. Because no matter how miraculously efficient unless you can slow the spread of energy from high concentration to low concentration, the refrigeration device will need to run a lot, and so it will use a lot of energy. I'm sure you've used one of these before. [thud] It's a cooler! The walls of the cooler are well insulated to enter it. And that lets you keep things that are inside See, the thing you have to keep in mind is are actually devoid of energy. Whe - I'm gonna put this down. When you feel a cold can of your favorite cold to you is that it's sucking the heat and our bodies interpret that sudden loss of energy as a sensation of cold. Really, your hand is warming up the can. The can sort of steals the energy that's to spread out and equalize. Aluminum is a pretty good conductor of heat, If you simply take a bunch of cold cans and well the heat energy in the room (or the environment more broadly) Air isn't super great at heat transfer, However, if you take these cans and put them And, uh, close the lid, well now the cooler has become a barrier. The heat energy around the cooler has a hard So, the cans stay colder longer. Fill this up with ice and now you've got of the heat energy entering the cooler causes more mass to heat up. The upshot of which is that things stay colder And now for a fun fact. A refrigerator or freezer is nothing more Side note; here in the US we use the term heat pump to generally mean a reversible air conditioning system, which was how I used be instrumental in our fight against climate But more correctly, any refrigeration system The job of a heat pump is to concentrate and Whether we use that to heat a space or cool Anyway, The walls of the fridge are insulated just the heat energy from the room it's in from Now, it can't keep heat out forever, it so we need a heat pump to run periodically so That's the job of the compressor. Well, technically, but it is the pump part. When you hear someone talk about the compressor makes the buzzy sound and makes the cool [a click as a compressor switches on] forcing it into a confined, high pressure heat exchanger known as the condenser where it can release its excess heat and condense into a liquid as it does so, all so that after the now liquid refrigerant may then enter the refrigerated space, where it will boil away thanks to the relief of this new low-pressure heat exchanger called scavenging heat as it does so from inside the space and making it colder, but I said we wouldn't focus too much on the mechanics and here I go talking about it again so let's move on. One thing I'd like to highlight here is warm food, the only thing your fridge is battling Once it's down to temperature, that is a A lot of people will suggest that you avoid inside it will make it run less frequently. This is only kind of true. The amount of energy entering it does not Which means it doesn't impact how much it What does actually change is how quickly energy inside temperature to rise. Without a lot of thermal mass, the same energy So, the compressor might need to run more But! That also means it won't need to run as Again, less thermal mass means the same change What you're really avoiding with a fuller where the compressor comes on more frequently in shorter bursts, which could in theory lessen the life of your refrigerator, and may slightly impact its energy efficiency. But it's probably not as big of a deal as So, if we want to increase the energy efficiency we have exactly two possible courses of action. We can design a more efficient heat pump. Or, we can minimize environmental heat intrusion And here's an important fact; There aren't that many gains we can find Yet, anyway. We've gotten pretty good at this whole refrigeration Even as we've discovered that the refrigerants not fantastic for many reasons - thanks, Thomas Midgely Jr.! - we've adapted with new chemicals and really we've got that part pretty much down. But, there's a lot we can do with the design And now we are back to the humble chest freezer. These unassuming white basement boxes of last are really quite remarkable. Why? Because of their bonkers energy efficiency. These are as close as you can get to a literal Because that's just about what they are. It's a box. With a lid. With thick insulated walls. And a small heat pump works to periodically keeping its temperature subzero cold Now if you go shopping online for a chest usage you might soon find that... well that's And, well, compared to a lot of things in I plugged this little chest freezer into a Kill-a-watt well I was stunned at how efficient this is. When running, it only consumes about 100 watts And over a period of three days, it consumed Considering average US electricity prices, freezer is just over $2 per month. That's nothing! I mean, seriously, if you put just one frozen more than an entire month's worth of electricity supply You could put hundreds of dollars of food Its absolutely thrifty energy consumption the output of just one commercial solar panel. A 250 watt panel getting an average of just of it no problem, assuming there's some And this particular freezer isn't even that All things considered it's actually quite Considering this model with nearly double uses pretty much an identical amount of energy, ehh this actually starts to seem But I mean it's still just two bucks! That's impressive! So what makes this so efficient? Well, a couple of things. First, this is a manual defrost freezer, meaning periodic downtime to melt that away. But, it doesn't need that to occur all that that makes it so efficient. Its door is on the top. Like a cooler! Consider what happens when you open the lid. The air inside the freezer is very, very cold. Which means it's very dense. You've undoubtedly heard before that warm Well, if this is full of cold air, and there opening the lid does... almost nothing. There's a sharp temperature gradient maintained in the room and the dense, cold air held in If the door is on the front, as it is for every time you open it up the cold air inside of You've probably seen this happen on a humid - the clouds of steam you see falling down are the result the warm air in the room, pulling the water vapor out of the air and making it visible as it falls to the floor. It literally is a cloud in your kitchen. And of course, if all that cold air has fallen less dense air in the room. You'll likely have noticed before that when the door seems to get sucked in after you close it, This happens because the warm air that entered sealed in the freezer, so it cools rapidly and in effect shrinks. This creates a dramatic pressure imbalance making it hard to open the door again until the pressure And of course, the freezer will eventually need to work to remove that added heat energy introduced by this warm air. This hardly happens at all with a chest freezer. There is some suction force when you close Almost unnoticeable. That's because hardly any new air makes it It can't just spill out. Want proof? If you get a leaf blower and shove a bunch now when you close the lid there is And it lasts quite a while. So there you go, proof right there that the Seriously, if you've got a chest freezer It's fun! And going back to the defrosting part, the helps minimize the need to defrost it. In this freezer and many like it, the evaporator (which is the part that gets cold) is embedded in the walls of the freezer. That means the walls get very very cold, and subsequently freezes. Over time this causes ice to build up. But, since the amount of ambient air that is quite small, that buildup is relatively Here's the thing, though. Chest freezers, as neat as they obviously are, are not the easiest things to live with. While they have most certainly been endorsed by The Royal Society for Putting Things the fact of the matter is filling these up with food means burying some of your other food in food. If accessibility is at all important to you, this design frankly sucks. I am very happy to have a chest freezer full but getting to the food on the bottom involves a fair bit of rummaging. And of course, that means rummaging through You might want to consider investing in a pair of warm And of course, if you want a freezer with well in the land of chest freezers that means you need more floor space. You can't simply make the chest deeper... well OK, you could, but... good luck with that, so instead it must be wider. If on the other hand you have an upright freezer, you more interior volume with the same floor space. And thus, we've circled back to the introduction. Chest freezers are undoubtedly the best design But, to achieve that goal, you must make sacrifices And I think it's OK to be unwilling to make But, that doesn't mean we shouldn't think I'd argue, as is the case for most things That might be different from person to person, swept up by what's in and popular without And refrigerators more broadly are just one Let's go shopping for a fridge, shall we? We're gonna take a look at various models You'll soon find that the design of the fridge has a significant impact on its energy consumption. And let's start with a weirdly counterintuitive Freezers tend to use less energy than a refrigerator Let's look at this big 15 cubic foot chest This huge freezer still manages to use less And it's a freezer. It has to keep its insides at near zero degrees All of its insides. So its entire inside space may be fighting Likely more. Now let's look at a basic kitchen refrigerator. This one is about the same size as our chest Your intuition might tell you that this should After all, the bulk of its insides are at It shouldn't need to work as hard. And yet... it actually uses more energy. Not a lot more. But... still more. What's going on? Well, there are three basic differences here. The use of one heat pump for two temperature The design and weaknesses of its thermal barriers. And whether or not the device has an automatic Now, spoiler alert, that last bit is less It does still matter a little bit, but let's The vast vast majority of residential refrigerators Really, what they are is a small freezer with the freezer a little bit to get some cold air You'll no doubt have noticed the whirring Or at least one of them. There may very well be multiple fans in your And of course there are exceptions, feel free This may not seem super important. After all, it's a pretty clever use of resources! Just oversize the heat pump for the freezer But you'd be surprised how much of a difference I mean, just compare these two fridge models. Same overall size. Same manufacturer. And no difference in features, other than and refrigerator is reversed. The freezer-on-bottom model uses about 20% That's... significant. Now, I've been trying to get a firm answer At some point in the past I had heard, and it makes intuitive sense, that because cold air tends to sink as it's denser, it takes less added effort refrigerator if the freezer is on the top. Just sorta let the denser air fall down into Whereas if the freezer is on the bottom, or air around to achieve the same results. And that might take more energy. But I couldn't find a definitive answer Regardless of the exact root cause, conventional energy efficient design. Just take a look at the list of most efficient The vast majority are models with the freezer There are exceptions to be found... but not many. And freezer placement is only one part of One of the more surprising things I found causes another 17% increase in energy consumption. That's... honestly really interesting to me. I wouldn't think that would make much of Uh-oh! Confounding variable alert! The bottom-drawer model has an ice maker whereas That will cause an increase in energy consumption to remove energy from the water it's introducing to itself. Without knowing the specifics of how the energy fair to assume the slidey drawery bit is what's So... OK, specifics unclear, but speaking of ice! Another significant factor in a refrigerator's an in-door ice dispenser. Because, and here's a fun fact if you've never realized this before that means it has a hole in its door! Yeah sure it probably has a flap or something ice chunks into your glass at an entirely but a thin plastic flap does not a good thermal barrier make. That would be a wonderful place Also... how does that even work with a bottom-freezer Is there... is there... is there like an entire... like a, a whole ice maker inside the door? How... [various noises of confusion] well anyway, this is such of a refrigerator that it's specifically particular model has it. It's kind of a big deal. But... on the other hand, is it really? I mean, let's look at the energy guide again. Sure, there's a big swing from the low end But honestly, even the least energy efficient still cost less than $8 a month to run. It gets a little worse with bigger models, well in comparison to that... even However. We all have refrigerators. Lots of us have more than one. And that means that while there's little when it comes to our electric bills, well a hundred million refrigerators using an additional 250 kilowatt-hours per year means that we're using another 25 Billion (!) kilowatt hours. You can make whatever comparisons you'd is that if every single US citizen so that's 128,000,000 cars, based on a rather every single commuter could drive 585 miles with that extra energy, or about 3 entire weeks of commuting. Small gains, when applied across the board, Which is of course why we have regulations and why utilities offer rebates for purchasing but before we get too far down THAT particular opinionated path, let me just repeat that I think it's OK for us to accept some losses in efficiency if it improves our lives. The question we need ask ourselves is how As is the case for nearly everything in this You might be wondering why chest refrigerators Well, they almost do; A lot of people living off the grid will convert by modifying their thermostats. I mean, if it can cool down to zero degrees, surely and be a wildly efficient refrigerator. And... it can. But the people who make this modification is the single greatest concern. They're willing to make the sacrifices necessary And more power to them! But we don't all need to go to that extreme. Then again, it's possible to end up on the The most popular style of refrigerator these (whatever that means) seems to be the french door, bottom freezer And... well, they're kinda the worst design At least, the way manufacturers build them I have no reason to think their efficiency Some manufacturers like Samsung use separate that while there is still only one compressor cooled separately which might help reduce And in fact one of these french door, bottom But what does it say that the model we all I'm not here to pass judgement. No matter how much I'd like to. Because I think it's OK for us to have different But I am here to suggest that we think about The entire reason we have energy guides in to make the more frugal choice. Both for their wallet and for the environment. If there's anything I'd suggest we do on that label just a little bit... cooler. Thanks for watching! Yes it's still there! And I hope that you learned something interesting about your personal sacrifices and priorities. Again, I'm not here to be judgey. I hope you didn't think that was what I I really just want to get your mind gears It can be easy to go above and beyond our needs every day, and I am guilty of that in many respects! But now and again, I think it's worth considering Oh, and the thing about defrosting! So... this is probably the main reason conventional Since nobody wants to deal with defrosting with means to eliminate the ice on the evaporator. Usually this is done by running the fans while to melt the ice. There's no free lunch, so that takes more But... also it's not anywhere near as big of a deal as It turns out that we have a direct comparison and one which does have auto-defrost. And it's not as dramatic a difference as Indeed, the freezer still manages to use less So... that's why I left it for herea at the end! I would never suggest anyone look for a manual-defrost because I would not wish that burden on anyone. And now, the bloopers! chillingly smooth jazz I believe you all have a right to know that during the filming of this video It's a cooler. The wall --- Oversi -- overheat the size pump. I almost said that. I didn't! But then it got in my brain. And then I couldn't keep going. ...inside of it falls right out... that fff Yeah that sentence is a... ooo, why did I I'll try to rework it on the fly, which Great. Nope. I said "enser" not "enter" and... Most desirable.... desirable. ahh, I was saying desired and then I read "abort!" so was this video cool, or what? I'm particulary fond of the part where we talked about freezers. Also, no iMacs were harmed in the making of this video.