All right, stop right there. I have been asked about this and they want to know how we We don't. All right, there is so much stuff that is incorrect in this. What's going on? My name is Andy Stumpf. I spent just under 17 and I host the &quot;Cleared Hot&quot; podcast. Today, we're going to be taking a look at some underwater and seeing how real they really are. One last thing. When you hit the water, don't forget to cut away your chute. 90% of people killed during the HALO jump got tangled up in their I've never been in an with anybody or thing My belts have tried to kill me. Magnets have tried to kill me. Hoses. Like, you end up fighting So that portion of the brief was legit. I've never seen anybody give an audible brief on an airplane, 'cause it's so loud that you can't hear. I am not aware of any that started with a that went directly into a dive. You're probably going to do a jump where you're pushing boats The boat lands under its own parachute, you land next to it, And you're probably a substantial distance Because otherwise you're directly over the top of where and that's not how you play varsity-level hide-and-seek, right? Cutting away from your parachute before you get into the water because at lower altitudes, it's really hard to judge how high you are up above the water. The rule that we use: Wait until your body hits the water to cut away from your equipment. There have been people who cut away and they thought they were at 10 feet, but they were at 100 feet or 150 feet. And at some point, the surface tension of and [claps] you can kind of do the math. You don't have to use a flare. I mean, they make flashlights. They last longer. You don't have to worry People would actually probably with the type of diving that Not by the volume of diving, but it's very focused A lot of it is navigation to a place where you could and then you're right back out. People who do this type of diving or the type of diving where it's just a total different experience. Most of the diving that I did was at night and at depths less than 20 feet. Not accurate at all. This is a zero. They actually did some really robust breath-holding work for this movie. And it's easy to get a long breath hold. Like, there are people for, like, five, six, It's about the lowest You don't see people holding their breath being incredibly active, which [choking] The first introduction to is open circuit in the pool. And I administered the test, and it would not be have a shallow-water blackout or hold their breath until they pass out. And one of the main indicators that somebody is actually is that bubbles will start just like he simulated in the movie. So they actually obviously to research this. For the cinematic aspect and the actual likelihood we're going to give them, like, a 3. And your muscles will stop Nah, I'm sure it's not that fast. Would you please listen for once? So, this apparently is His operational equipment consisted of a pair of board shorts a messenger bag slung over his shoulder, which is a controversial choice. You spend a good portion of your time as a student in BUD/S hypothermic. I mean, we're talking down in San Diego. Sometimes the water We can get you hypothermic by keeping you in there long enough, but that's a different type of cold than what was being shown in &quot;Archer.&quot; Like, that's Arctic-water cold. Looked like he was putting a somewhere inside of the propeller. OK. I mean, highly improbable. The propeller itself may not be the best place to actually put a charge. Actually, when we would do ship attack, combat sweeper operations, instead of actually the propeller itself, the underside of a vessel, and then the driveshaft that And we would actually put the to structurally damage the ship's ability to work under its own power or navigate. If you blow up a propeller, and I'm not saying that this but you can put another propeller on. If you damage the structural and then the propeller and they have no ability to reattach that, again, it's a fixable probably taking the boat out of the water, putting it into a dry dock, So you can get more bang for your buck. Pun intended, I suppose. How explosives are able A lot of them are naturally C-4 is a good example. To get C-4 to explode, we So that functions underwater, though, just like it would in the air. Tough to rate a cartoon, This is going to have I'm going to go with a 2. And the only reason he gets a 2 is I like the homemade mason charge that he somehow wedged into the propeller. If you need to cross the You know, there's no in the middle of it and give if you are trying to sneak up on somebody. You would either cross the or cross the entire thing below the water. Or go farther down or upstream and maybe find a log that's across it, so you don't have to get wet. 'Cause being wet sucks. All right, stop right there. I have been asked about this because people absolutely love it and they want to know how we And here's the answer: we don't. Because, right, you would never You just absolutely know that somebody is going to fall when you shoot them in the head, right? Because why wouldn't you? But you've got to remember, probably a 7.62 or a 0.300 Win Mag round snapping through the jungle. The suppressor that's on the rifle, it's basically a muffler. And it contains some of the gas, and it drastically reduces the But bullets, when they fly through the air, they're supersonic, so it makes a crack. And there is subsonic ammunition, and it's much quieter. That's not what that person was shooting. The whole point of doing the charade of catching somebody and as if it was just eating is 'cause you're trying to be sneaky. So going through all of and then cracking off it defeats the entire purpose. It's just, there's so, it's not how it works, people! Where you link up with a submarine in the middle of the ocean, that's totally plausible. They were on a Zodiac, probably a 55- or a 35-horsepower engine. So they could easily go from out into international water, or really wherever the sub So that's totally legit. Yeah. Wow. So, they obviously had direct support from the United States And I'm actually surprised they which stands for SEAL Delivery Vehicle. In essence, it is a miniature submarine. It's smaller, harder to be discovered, and you can move people and equipment a really far distance and then 'cause you can go back and relink back up to that asset that you departed from. You are in your dive gear and it can be up to 14 hours. A lot of the times you're in dry suits. Dry and warm are two very different things that people should not confuse. They nailed it. It's very plausible that all of that would I'm going to give them a 10 on that. The sniper water river catch is a zero. It actually might be a negative number. Is there a more obvious way to let somebody know that you're coming than white and orange jumping directly over the top of them? &quot;Surprise! You didn't see that coming!&quot; I've worn dive fins on my and actually was falling More often than not, though, you put your feet through that, and you actually tape But if you're going to land in the water, you're going to want to have fins on you in case you need to or exert yourself. You're going to need those fins. [laughs] Yes! And they had a fleet, a full fleet of submersibles I am not aware of any engagement at any time in the history of human beings where anything like this has occurred. We are not trying to get Like, bottom line. We use it as a way to or to get from A to B or to be sneaky, right? Like, &quot;Well, I don't Like, &quot;Bloop, here we You didn't see us, surprise!&quot; We're not looking to So, no. We're not bringing tridents or spears or any of that stuff. I like how they're cutting the hoses. Unfortunately, there is and an exhalation hose, and they probably could still breathe if they cut the wrong one. We always had dive knives on us, but it's for cutting gear There was never a of pulling that out with the It was for anything but that. Like, Phillips-head screws, like, that's what we use dive knives for. I like the idea of what I'll call that the gen-one Spare Air. Which, with a canister of that size, I feel like you have about So he certainly wouldn't And then the concussive Concussion in the way that is a very, very real thing. Let's just say that was That would probably kill the people inside of that contained area, but it probably would Especially if there's open 'cause that stuff will bounce out as well. So it's plausible, but I would say you would out of there before that thing went off. Like, out of the water I don't even know if I can give So, I didn't get a good look at the gun that he shot that out probably some version of The projectile doesn't have this continuous propellant, like it did in that, and And people, I'm sure, want to know if you can fire guns underwater. You can fire a gun generally one time. They're not designed to that has that much You could probably shoot a 203 underwater, but it's not going to look like that. It would probably come out of the barrel, if it even cleared the barrel, and then just drop right off. And they also arm by spinning. That's why it has a usually of 33 yards. So there's a lot of things in that particular scene right there. If you just look at how inefficient the swimming motion was. What kills a lot of your energy, there's two things. One, they had a weapon slung around them that was very loose, and their shoes. It is so hard to swim with shoes. I think that video highlighted the difference between fins and no fins. That's what swimming looks like when you don't have fins That's why you want to If we were jumping and there wasn't going to be that much swimming, I'd go with one that so I could tape it up and wear the thing as I was leaving the aircraft. If I had to wear what they had on, I'd be pulling myself along the floor. I think it would be easier, and you'd get more That's why you need a But they weren't diving, so they didn't have their However, they had a bunch of guns. I mean, they didn't spend I mean, what's going on here? I'm going to give them a 3 at best. It's a stretch. They're reaching for a 3, but I'll give them a 3. I found door No. 3. And I'm taking it. Oh, that's a national treasure, all right. You know, jumping off of a, I think it was the aircraft carrier, that's probably going to be 50, 60 feet. I'm here for that. That's You could definitely do that. So, we navigated with, we call them nav boards, and we had three really that we used to get to stare The first one you already The next entertaining and, lastly, a stopwatch. That was it. We dive in pairs, but only one person gets the navigation board. So somebody else out there is just like, &quot;I hate my life. This I don't even have anything to look at.&quot; So sometimes when I was the buddy, I would just swim on top of my dive buddy and just look at the navigation board too because I was so bored. I just wanted to look at numbers slowly just, like, creeping around. Sadusky: Can you see Gates in the water? Sir, it's the Hudson. Nothing is visible. So, all these people that are going to see the bubbles. This would be an example would be better than open circuit. Because even if that guy every time they exhale, It's actually really easy from above when they're 'Cause open circuit you closed circuit you can be sneaky. So it's just a closed-loop system that only allows the gas to because obviously you wouldn't want it coming back and forth. And you push it through it pulls out the carbon you're off and running. There's a 100% chance that But if you wanted to do it I'd say closed circuit is a better option. I'll give him a 7. Bond: Conserve your gas supply. Speak only when necessary. Going to have to be a radio. There's no way it's going to I have no experience with doing that. There's not really anybody nor do I know what you would The diving that we did Or you'd have a grease pencil and you could write on it. Other than that, it was squeezes or just [blabbing]. And it's amazing actually how much you can learn what the You're almost actually So, very low speed. Even if something went wrong, the No. 1 thing you do and you go to the surface, 'cause you can take the stuff &quot;Hey, man, what's going on?&quot; And you can restart the dive. Yeah, that's real. Sharks When things would bump into me, the theory that I went with was if I don't look, it didn't happen. So we would be swimming around and then I would get slammed, and my whole thought process was, &quot;Nope, I'm not gonna look at that. I'm gonna pretend that it didn't happen.&quot; It probably was, like, a sea lion. You know, it could have been a dolphin. It might've been a shark. I don't know. I didn't look. I would say that everything that they did is possible. They may not have had all but I'll give it a 7. So, it requires different equipment. Oftentimes, even to get it's a very high-risk, Hard pass. Stay calm! We're going to buddy breathe. They decided that they were which is just basically between two people. If you're going to do that, you're going to have to do and buddy breathe until Because you notice they were staying in exactly the same spot. So you could just sit there and do that and then run out of air and die together, or maybe buddy breathe towards how you can get Buddy breathing can kind of go exactly People's ability to hold their breath varies greatly. And when the regulator is in your mouth or the mask is on your you feel a lot better than the person who is watching you breathe, wishing that they were breathing, wanting the mask that you're wearing. So it can become a little bit of a battle, but you have to work together. You follow the procedure, cold, wet, hungry, tired, fill in the blank. Or People can get very emotionally involved in those situations, where is procedurally work through it, as opposed to allowing And you have to work as a team. Yeah. It would be one of to have something happen like that. Not the way that I would I'm going to give that a 7. So, if you liked this video do me a favor and click the