The Arleigh Burke class of guided missile have been designed to be a lot more capable, The dilemma of capability versus cost. The truth is, American shipyards can build to pay for them, which is why some key design more influenced by budgetary watch dogs than Lucky for this class, the political pressures Burke into the most successful and most produced But why with all that success, the latest the end of the road for the Burke class, is To understand how Arleigh Burke Destroyers "highs" and the "lows". "High-low mix" philosophy was pioneered the budget-breaking DDG-1000 destroyer is The purpose of the "High-Low mix" was The idea was that no country, be it the Soviet build large numbers of expensive ships for The issue with an "all-High Navy" was not be enough ships to control the seas. The issue with an "all-Low Navy" was that they would not have the capability to meet types of missions. In order to have both, ships that are powerful had to be a mix of High and Low. During peacetime, low-end warships would be but during wartime they would be held back powerful ships were deployed into the most Zumwalt served as the Chief of Naval Operations procurement of many new naval ships. For example, a few expensive Virginia-class the "high-mix", each costing about $300 They were supplemented by a larger "low frigates with a price tag of $50 million dollars Similarly, Ticonderoga cruisers were the "high-mix" into the fleet, but the Navy also needed a the Arleigh Burke destroyers. But it was political considerations, not technical to be smaller and less capable compared to These new destroyers were to be at least 50 8,300 tons, have one gun instead of two, smaller But even with these limitations, the expectations The new low-mix destroyer class had to be for long periods of time and with substantial Afterall, the class was named after Admiral had a pretty cool nickname! During World War II, Burke mistakenly led Admiral Halsey radioed him: "What are you "Thirty-one knots!" he replied ... and But in order for new Arleigh Burke class destroyers and have desirable seakeeping characteristics, than the politicians had allowed for. Imagine your design requirements reads: 50 But the designers worked around that limitation. They upgraded the gas turbines from the originally and designed a new water-plane-area hull with These changes compensated for the hull length in a unique shape that was nicknamed "Arleigh While some compromises had to be made due in certain areas, no compromises were made. For example, the "Arleigh Brick" was designed superstructure on the Ticonderoga. Afterall, some lessons had been learned from melted the aluminum superstructure, and also the Falklands war. But first, you know those video games have looks like ... this?! Well that's not the case with our video amazing to play ... and it's FREE! I've been recently playing more naval battles nothing more satisfying than launching a successful game are pretty realistic, so you have to as your enemy's heading. In War Thunder you can choose from a variety ships, but tanks and airplanes too, and play If, like me, you don't have a fancy gaming War Thunder on a regular PC, XBox or PlayStation. The game is in fact fully cross-platform. On top of all that, there are free bonuses a 7-day premium account! Just register using the link in the description At the time that the US Navy was designing Frigates and Spruance-class destroyers were the type of threats projected for the 1990s missiles that would fly lower, faster and The Arleigh Burke class was to be multi-mission, an array of threats. Such ships should be able to deploy forward a variety of threats, including anti-ship and shore, theater ballistic missiles, mines, of chemical, biological and radiological weapons. The surface combatant should also be able Various combat systems were examined to be upgraded Perry-class combat system. But these systems failed to meet the new minimum warfare area. This is why the Aegis combat system was so There were 3 major advances that differentiated on the previous Perry-class frigates and Spruance-class the vertical launch system, and the integrated The SPY-1 phased-array radar is the most crucial First introduced on the Ticonderoga cruisers, sequence. A traditional rotating radar, like the ones location of incoming missiles only as fast An update rate of about once every four seconds. Compare that to phased array SPY-1 radars enabling them to establish "fire-control-quality faster than a rotating radar. At best, in the early 90's, the detection the Exocet or SSN-22, would occur at or near from the ship. With the earliest initial detection and alert class destroyers will only get "one" engagement the This doesn't leave much room for errors, In contrast, the Aegis destroyers will have anti-ship missiles due to the fast conversion track". On top of all this, Aegis destroyers are equipped which further reduces the manual firing sequence But Aegis destroyers not only can track better, The next revolutionary part of the Aegis Combat VLS was first put into service by the Soviet guided-missile cruiser. Six years later, Americans had their own version launchers on USS Bunker Hill, a Ticonderoga-class Older above-the-deck missile launchers such of fire no faster than the "complex magazine-to-launcher The Mark 13 launcher could fire one missile missiles every 9 seconds. Another limitation was that the above-the-deck missiles and anti-submarine rockets only. In contrast, the Mark 41 VLS allows for a because the VLS modules act as the magazine Additionally, a large variety of missile types Theoretically, a Flight IIA Arleigh Burke-class time, as that's how many 8-cell modules the Each 8-cell module has a single exhaust system, there must be downtime to cool off, otherwise launched too early. That said, Arleigh Burke destroyers can't other limitations including the maximum number during startup. Finally, at the heart of Aegis, is the Aegis with other sensors like the ones on satellites, unifies the communications and human interface, The integration of information from various reaction time for decision makers. And as you already know, reaction time matters! ... a lot! The Arleigh-Burke class has been constructed advances. In 1988, the construction of Flight I, the with a total of 21 produced. Starting in 1995, 7 slightly larger Flight Again, up to this point, the Burke class debate than its military capabilities. That did however change in 1997, when construction Flight IIA destroyers were 4 feet longer, Six more Mk 41 VLS cells were added while removed. But the biggest addition was the dual helicopter Helicopters contribute immensely to the ship's also provide an over-the-horizon "detect-and-engage" Even between flights, the class continued Starting with USS Mustin, the funnels were the ship's radar cross section. USS Michael Murphy, DDG-112, was supposed with her construction beginning in 2010. But a few years later, it became apparent Ships were not going to pan out. Only three Zumwalt destroyers had been built Navy was forced to resume the production of But shortly after, the Flight IIA was deemed So the US Navy started working on the Flight While the design work was underway, the under as "Technology Insertion" ships with elements The Flight III iteration was not a new idea. It was actually first considered in the early turned to the future Zumwalt-class destroyers. The Flight III in a way was a no-brainer. After the fiscal failure of the "high-mix" idea. Flight III is nearly bow-to-stern redesigned, This iteration brings a new electronic warfare an electric plant into the Arleigh Burke hull. The Flight III will also feature the new SPY-6 size at a distance four times longer compared According to the manufacturer, it will be able to track 30 times the number of targets The downside? The SPY-6 will consume twice as much power. USS Jack H. Lucas will be the first Flight Her construction began in 2019 with an expected Currently two shipyards are building two Flight Up to 42 Flight III Arleigh Burke destroyers But here's the thing. The Burkes have been in production for nearly The hull was designed in the 1980s, and it's Yes, the Flight III will be the most capable But it represents a bridge from the past to the beginning of the end for the Arleigh Burke You could say the ship is SOL because of the Service Life Allowance, or SLA, is extra capacity, new equipment in the future. For example, the Spruance class had a significant the addition of Tomahawk cruise missiles at This flexibility eventually allowed construction hull. The SLA is quite important, considering that service life of about 40 years, allowing the or so. But it's almost impossible to predict what what kind of footprints they will exactly This is why warships are designed with extra The amount of excess space ranges from 5% ships. Similarly, brand new ships in the class must New technologies like railguns and direct power that many of today's warships simply For example, the Nimitz-class carriers were were added on, the power generation capacity With lessons learned from Nimitz carriers, designed in a way that ensures enough electricity advancements. This is why only about half of Ford's power systems, with the other half reserved for The latest Flight III Arleigh Burke destroyer life allowance on this platform has been fully and power has already been allocated. There's simply no more room on the hull For example, the US Navy had to make a compromise They wanted at least a 20-foot version of to accommodate future warfare requirements. But even with an enlarged deckhouse, the Flight of the radar. The previous Flights had to fit an even smaller versus 37 on the Flight III. The artificial political limitations imprinted have resulted in the class being maxed out But in hindsight, maybe those limitations They led to an "evolutionary" process while saving some money, compared to the "revolutionary" experienced. With that said, you can't make the Burke The only solution to add new technologies And that's precisely why the US Navy is missile destroyers, DDG(X). It does seem like the US Navy is setting up an evolutionary approach, as opposed to revolutionary, adding new technologies with each new flight The first DDG(X) destroyer would be bare bones, But the US Navy has learned an expensive lesson incorporated way too many new things at once. In contrast to Zumwalt, the new DDG(X) surface system from the Arleigh Burke Flight III, and the Integrated Electric Propulsion. Future versions show possibilities for swappable energy weapons. DDG(X) is expected to operate alongside the the 2030s. Meanwhile, Flight III is expected to be in But - and it's a big but, and I cannot lie! Since all the space and service allowance like hypersonic missiles become eminent, it Spruance-class destroyers and the Littoral Play War Thunder, this free vehicle combat Click the link in the description to take for Not What You Think viewers, and join over world