118 elements, 118 names, 118 stories. The periodic table is full of secrets and surprises Which elements are named the stinker, Is it aluminium or aluminum? What mythical beings lurk And which places and people Enough rhyming now. Also, Why do some of the chemical Find out now! In another RobWords. I'm going to be in my element with this one. Okay everybody, let's take it from the the least dense element and atomic number 1. Don't worry, I don't intend to do By the time I'd finished they'd probably But let's start here, because it is one of the but whose name we may never have stopped the Greek for water - hydro - and the Greek the same gen that gives us generate, but Why is hydrogen called that? Because you need it I'm standing right now, it's called Wasserstoff, The other element of water is This time the oxy means "acid", because it was false - belief that you needed it actually misleading, but it could be worse. 1700s originally named it "dephlogisticated air'! it fire air though, which is much cooler. Anyway, let's generate another Nitrogen is so called because of its Away from the periodic table, you something that generates cancer, or pathogen, Actually, I wish I hadn't gone there. things up again with Helium. table so it is high time we talk about it. Helios. Why? Because it was first detected in and it's the bit you see surrounding the sun The -um at the end of Helium is something forward. So let's take a moment to look at it. something into a substance - etymologically For example, Lithium gets its name from the but the -ium gives us an element named after it. The fact there are two very um and ium, is the reason we have two names it Aluminium, but it also gets called Aluminum. If only it were so... So Aluminium is recorded first get from alumina. That was in 1811. But So neither one of them is the long-established mispronunciation. They're both good. alumium. But let's leave that Instead, let's look at some more of the Carbon gets its name from the Latin for coal. Coal the words for coal in the Latin languages Next up: Gold! [Spandau Ballet sing] Always [Rob speaks] Gold is a VERY old word. those lines for as long as we can But it's thought that its ultimate root is But hang on a second... What's going on here? Neither of those letters is in the word Well that's actually short for Coming in just behind gold - as it usually does - again, what's going on for chemical symbol? Argentum in this case, from which we get the the Spaniards rocked up in the Americas in excited about the large amounts of the precious They named Argentina using the Latin word after the Spanish word for silver too: means "little silver element". Platina is the Spaniards basically thought it was an inferior And there's another element Ready Freddy? It's Mercury. comes from the name of the Roman god of that name. the Greek hydrargyrum. We've seen the elements of Hydrogen, and the argyrum is silver. Hydrargyrum be called in English "quicksilver", which means So Argentina may be named after an common for elements to be named after places. One place has more elements named after it than any other and I'm willing to It's this place, just outside of Now I had no idea how to pronounce this. ...but I did happen to be in Stockholm the a Swede. And after pouring me a lovely How's it pronounced? Ytterby And again Y-tter-by Ooternboo... Ooterbi... I still can't get it right. Now, back in 1789, the first rare earth metal a mine at Ytterby and since then, a whole host Among them - Yttrium and Ytterbium, the place. But so, also, is Terbium, elements are named after that one tiny for creativity though... I bet they wanted to But other elements were found there. after nearby Stockholm. Another one the Latin name for Scandinavia. And there's also and Latin word for what they believed to Tantalum was also found at Ytterby and - in a mythological character Tantalus. That poor fella standing under a tree of fruit he couldn't drink. We get the word tantalising from him, to Tantalum is named after him because it's Another element, Niobium, is named because tantalum and niobium More on Greek mythology to come, but let's look France gets two elements named after but also Gallium, which gets its name Other elements named after named after Marie Curie's homeland, Copper is ultimately named from where the Romans sourced most of theirs. And some other examples are out of this world. Selenium gets its name from the And Uranium, Neptunium and Plutonium There are loads of others named after places too. I won't go through them all, Now, the planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, And there are plenty of more mythical Titanium is named after the Titans, the Olympian gods before being banished Promethium is named after one of the who according to the Greeks stole fire He was punished by having an eagle eternity. The name of the element is scientists experienced trying Cadmium gets its name from the Greek historian Herodotus claims was responsible for a lovely little cross-over fact if you watched Norse mythology is also represented in the and Vanadium, which comes from one of There are a couple of other mischievous of elements. They're disguised in Cobalt comes from a German word And Nickel is actually a shortening of the German word "Kupfernickel". and Nickel is another mischievous demon Cobalt and Nickel get their impish names miners who tried to dig them up. were mining copper, and cobalt made It was actually more likely the arsenic Actually, a fair few elements get their hard to extract. It's as if the scientists to go to to isolate or synthesise them, that Krypton is not named after Superman's home planet, but the Greek word for "hidden". shyness, I suppose. Xenon comes from the same root as Xenophobia. Xenon gets called the "stranger gas". Not uncharacteristically reactive for a noble gas. They're called noble because of their reluctance THESE elements are also named after My favourite is Argon, which gets Just because it can't be And also, poor old Osmium, which gets its name Or at least the compound the scientist Often scientists themselves end up being Curium is named after Pierre and Marie Curie, Einsteinium is... well do I really need to tell you? Alfred Nobel of dynamite and Nobel prize fame, All these other elements are also named others maybe not. I want to mention some more confusing talked about Mercury, Gold and Silver... Lead gets its chemical symbol from the plumber from the same root because Tin, Potassium and Iron also get their apparently nonsensical chemical symbols from And special mention goes to Tungsten, which has Swedish for heavy stone. Simple and descriptive. which comes from the German Hallo. Okay, so in an ideal world I would not be cream". But those are all the elements that that I haven't mentioned, it's because very similar to another one, or I just found Thanks a lot for watching. This so if you've enjoyed it, please I recommend you watch my video about you've already seen it though, why not try