Eclipsed by the splendour of the Persian, of the Bronze Age are often relegated to a Perhaps most forgotten among them are the Known primarily as the chariot riding lords a vast territory for over a half a millennium. At the core of the Hittite realm was a great the renowned cities of the Bronze Age. Welcome to our video on Hattusa, its buildings, the Hittite Empire. If you want to control a Bronze Age city or of this video Total War Saga: TROY is your This beautiful game set in one of the most so it is the best time to get it! Total War Saga: TROY is the newest entry in you to control Greeks and Trojans in a monumental Troy now has 3 modes to choose from: Truth Iliad as seen by the ancient Greeks. The new Historical mode depicts the Trojan historical accuracy of a Bronze Age conflict the game. And with the brand-new Mythos expansion you glory! Embark on your own odyssey on one of three beasts and unleash them upon your enemies: guards the abyss, the Griffin - a deadly serpent spreading poison and madness. Support our channel and fight the epic Trojan description - there are hydra size deals Our focus in this video will be on the third the city was the beating heart of perhaps second millennium BC - the capital of the Phase three began in the 1600s BC when the - Hattusili I - rebuilt and established a Artificial terraces were created by levelling, the wider town and a royal palace was constructed. Ever-present military threat led to the raising postern gates and corbelled tunnels. Around 1400BC, however, this military threat the sacking of Hattusa. It appeared as though the blossoming kingdom a burst of military prowess, a man who would interlopers from the Hittite heartland and phase of Hattusa's lifespan. Due to Suppiluliuma's preoccupation with royal restoration was left to his successors. The city of Hattusa was divided into two primary to the north known somewhat confusingly as position on the compass. It arguably contained both of the settlement's To the south was a magnificent thirteenth 'upper city', the construction of which IV. Quite a few gateways could be used to enter of the primary entranceways were located on south and southeast. Southeast was the so-called 'king's gate', engraved there, although scholars acknowledge kind, perhaps Tudhaliya's patron god Sharruma Some archaeologists and experts in sculpture of the king's gate sculpture, which differs was actually crafted by a foreign artist, Hittitologist Trevor Bryce, however, believes given how comparatively little of the overall Still, the style is incredibly unique, depicting or warrior. Belted at the depicted figure's side is a somewhat ornate looking battle-axe in the On his head is a plumed helmet which cheek To look upon the face of this formidable looking an expression that looks almost like a smile. Perhaps this figure was meant, with his raised capital. Possibly exhibiting some of the influence the southernmost, highest section of the upper This entranceway is decorated by two pairs the legendary feline entities, one pair facing In contrast to the Egyptian counterparts, female and their headdresses sculpted into Gazing both down into the city and out of as grandiose, mythical benefactors, under are kept safe. Those which face outwards may be an attempt power could ever cross the threshold. Despite the intricate nature of these two from foreign dominions would almost certainly gate. Keeping with the theme, this most regal of sentinels keeping watch on either flank. Unfortunately for us, however, these figures and much of their former brilliance has been Diminishment through the centuries aside, lions of Hattusa were crafted when one observes While some tend to emphasize ferocity and Hittite beast looks relatively benign and in Assyrian cities such as Kalhu and Nineveh. "If the Hattusa lions were supposed to reflect mounting an attack on the city might encounter "-the enemy might feel rather more reassured Therefore, it is likely that the lions were and dignity in any visitor, informing and of the great, royal seat of the Hittite world, on earth. In many ways, Hattusa was a ceremonial, holy very gods. This fact is shown starkly when one takes that adorned the city. To enter Hattusa through its sphinx gate would primary temple quarter, where around 25 temples Smallest among their ranks were between 400 size of about 1,200 to 1,500. Built in the 'last burst of rocket fuel' most of these sites of religious veneration They were almost entirely square or rectangular giving access to an inner antechamber and, This is the off-centre 'holy of holies', Below most of the temples were cellars, some seal impressions, stamp seals and other administrative Close to both the king's gate and lion gate giving the upper city a symmetrical appearance. Although the structure near the lion gate new city is so-called 'Temple 5' toward This building has an area of about 3,000 square royal annex and three small chapel-like shrines. One of the shrines, so-called 'House A', warrior armed with lance and wearing a horned The mystery of the figure is swiftly uncovered are deciphered to reveal the name 'Tudhaliya'. This was probably not intended to represent reverence for an ancestor such as Tudhaliya Renowned scholar and archaeologist Peter Neve ancestor shrine. However, foremost among all Hattusa's temples construction is the dramatically named, 'Temple city district. Where most of the inferior shrine complexes 3,000 square metres, this mammoth temple dedicated and his solar goddess consort Hepat exceeded and 135 metres wide. Much like many other Hittite-style temples, key things - storerooms and workrooms, lodgings of veneration themselves. While shrines in the Greek world, for example, Hittite temple complexes served a vast variety sections. Beyond the protective walls and guard towers, entrance, there now rest two stone bases where gold or silver deific figures made their home. Unlike the temples of other civilisations sanctuaries and their holy relics were illuminated appeared shimmering and divine on many occasions. Although the higher-ups in temple service God's complex, multitudes of other menial tailors and others, lived in blocks of standard, of the temple itself. People would've come and gone from the district equipment, ferrying supplies and so forth. It was a mini-community inside a community. The overall population of Hattusa at its height things in ancient times, hotly debated. As Trevor Bryce tells us, the answer to 'how on many factors. What period are we speaking of? What exactly can be defined as living in the Did Hattusa have a large seasonal population then departed? Estimates, though, suggest a total of between Like the Storm God temple's micro-community, population of Hittite or 'Nesite', Luwian, speaking peoples, among others, lived in basic The typical house possessed two rooms and possessing an upper storey, small courtyard Higher ranking personnel such as scribes, commanders probably took up residence in larger in order to separate themselves from the hubbub Furthermore, it is speculated that much of the walls in houses or on farms which are Indeed, it may have been that to live inside was a privilege in and of itself. Akin to Rome and so many other pre-modern of wooden, densely-packed Hattusa, as we can to prevent it. 'Be particularly vigilant in the matter temple priests. '-In the event that there is any flame in person responsible for extinguishing it becomes is guilty of the crime will perish together This incredibly severe punishment can be understood to life and property alike. In the thirteenth century BC, a Hittite queen of Egypt that, due to the destruction of a dowry would have to be delayed, possibly endangering But for any emissary or foreign diplomat, within the city of Hattusa - the throne of Entering through the great lion gate, official upper city, passing through the upper temple known as the Nisantepe. From that high place and passing over one upper city and the acropolis, one would finally Being permitted entry by royal sentries, guests through an array of colonnaded pavilions and In a great hall, adorned with many pillars monarch, holding court and announced by a Vassal rulers would renew vows, pay tribute Following a number of other royal niceties, presence known. In this very room, as Bryce once again tells Hani finally persuaded King Suppiluliuma to Tutankhamun's widow. Here too Mursili III spurned an Assyrian envoy martial realms. But the Hittites couldn't be too cocky about are clear in its design, but it was far from hall of Akhenaten in Egypt. As the last burst of rocket fuel petered out the whole empire began suffering famine, economic When Anitta destroyed the city so long before, the site, proclaiming "On its site I sowed May the Storm God strike down anyone who becomes The curse came true. During the Bronze Age collapse, a city that devastated ruin, never to rise again. More videos on the history of the Bronze age and have pressed the bell button to see the Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and