There is the France that you know with its unmissable monuments, its breathtaking landscapes and its magnificent villages. But behind these places sometimes hides a more secret, more surprising and worrying France. What if we discovered behind the scenes, the hidden side of our country? The Second World War left many scars throughout France. Bunker. Reich military base, secret underground. Without forgetting the places occupied by the Germans. We have all visited one of these places before. But do we really know their story? Often mysterious and secret stories that we are going to reveal to you today. Why did the Germans build a veritable fortress in the heart of the royal town of Saint Germain en Laye? It is therefore one of the most bunkered cities in France. How did this military fort lost in the middle of the Pyrenees serve the dark designs of Philippe Petain? He therefore envisages what we would call fortress punishment, that is to say political imprisonment in a far, distant, enclosed place. Why did the Germans organize a mysterious ceremony at Les Invalides, in the heart of occupied Paris? The Germans put in place a whole ceremonial, a ceremonial with the SS, with the torches, with the flags, the SS streets, et cetera. Why will Eysses prison become the most important resistance prison during the Second World War? Eysses is a penal colony like Cayenne. As harsh as Cayenne, for Vichy it is a model prison. Extraordinary stories, a dress rehearsal for the D-Day landings, a secret Nazi base that almost changed the course of the war. So many forgotten sites which nevertheless reveal hidden pieces of French history to us. We are a few kilometers from Paris, in Saint Germain en Laye, birthplace of King Louis XIV. This city is anchored in the history of France. Many monuments still recall its royal destiny, such as the castle or its magnificent terrace. It's hard to imagine that behind all these bourgeois residences are dozens of bunkers from the Second World War. The Germans decided to build blockhouses or shelters. We have 22 in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. It is therefore one of the most bunkered cities in France. Why did the army of the Third Reich concrete this peaceful town? A priori far from being a strategic issue. Why was it invested by more than 10,000 soldiers? A look back at a little-known episode of the Occupation. An astonishing episode which made Saint-Germain-en-Laye one of the high places of the Second World War. It all begins at the end of the Battle of France. In 1940, Hitler instructed one of his most important marshals to set up a super headquarters in the occupied zone responsible for the defense of the Western Front. Oberkommando West, also called OB West. This organization is responsible for defending the borders from Norway to Spain and overseeing the construction of the famous Atlantic Wall. The officer chosen by Hitler for this crucial mission and Marshal von Rundstedt, a name that may not mean anything to you and yet. Who is Gerd von Rundstedt? He is the most famous tactician of the blitzkrieg. In other words, Adolf Hitler's victory in Europe. So this is the most experienced marshal in the German army who is here. Marshal von Rundstedt then chose to settle in Saint Germain en Laye. A strategic choice The large houses of the royal city are ideal for housing the officers of the main headquarters of OB West. A quarter of the real estate is requisitioned in Saint-Germain en Laye. The mayor says it is the busiest city in France. When we count the population, we are at a third. Perhaps half the population is German. This is Saint-Germain en Laye. Under the Occupation. Initially, the marshal set up his headquarters at the Henri IV pavilion, on the magnificent terrace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, one of the most popular places in the royal city, but also the most exposed. On March 3, 1942, an Allied bombing destroyed part of the Henri IV pavilion. The Germans are forced to transfer OB West to this villa. Villa David. It is here that Marshal von Rundstedt will set up his quarters from March 1942. It was the Germans who decided to make OB West more secure by placing it further inside the city, so as to that it be less visible, less exposed to possible English air raids. Security desired by the Fuhrer himself. Despite this, Marshal von Rundstedt refused to change his habits. The old Prussian officer is indeed very attached to his freedom. He likes to walk in the garden of Villa David and take advantage of the terrace for his staff meetings. But the more the war progresses, the more the threat from the allies becomes felt. Between 1943 and 1944, the town of Saint-Germain-en-Laye and its surroundings suffered nearly 700 bombers. For Hitler, it therefore became urgent to secure his precious field marshal. We are here in the basements and cellars of Villa David. From May 43, there was the desire, gradually despite everything, to secure OB West. Berlin ends up being informed of the poor security of the site and demands that anti-aircraft protection be provided at Villa David. Von Rundstedt is strongly opposed to this. For him, it was unthinkable to take refuge in a bunker. It is even a question of principle. However, it is Hitler who will have the last word. Against the advice of the marshal, the Furher therefore ordered the Todt organization to build a shelter under the Villa David. The work was carried out behind von Rundstedt's back while he was in Germany. On his return, Von Rundstedt discovered this shelter. For him, there is no question of setting foot in what he calls a box. The fact remains that Hitler, for his part, will not validate this shelter either because we are in the axis of the house, under the house. And in fact, if this house was hit by a bombing, whoever is inside this shelter and who, once again, is von Rundstedt the issuer of orders at the top of OB West, would he finds himself trapped inside this shelter by the rubble of the house, he is no longer operational. No more order givers. Unacceptable for Hitler, this basic shelter will therefore never be used during the Second World War. But the fury does not disarm. He then demanded that another shelter, accessible from the cellars of the villa, be built under the garden. Once again, von Rundstedt opposed it and again, the work was carried out in his absence. So here we are in Marshal Von Rundstedt's second shelter, which is built under the garden of Villa David. More spacious, better furnished and equipped with a larger fan because the room is larger and above all with the possibility of communicating outside with a field telephone which allowed von Rundstedt to keep informed of operations which could take place when he was confined in this shelter. This second shelter also has an independent evacuation access allowing the marshal to exit even in the event of a landslide. This shelter will also be used at least once in 1944. The anecdote told by Zimmermann, the operations manager of OB West, provides us with some information. During the year 44, the English aviation dropped luminous markers on Saint-Germain-en-Laye. As a result, the General Staff expects a major bombardment on the city and Zimmermann wants von Rundstedt to use this shelter. After a tough negotiation, the officer finally convinced the marshal to go down into the shelter. The operation is important. Zimmermann is absorbed by this operation, so much so that he forgets the presence of von Rundstedt in the shelter where we are. And it is after an hour that von Rundstedt will use the campaign telephone which allows him to contact the surface to ask if he can finally leave this shelter. Von Rundstedt will never set foot in this shelter again. But the more the war progressed, the more important OB West became in Hitler's eyes. In 1943, the Fuhrer recommended that the Todt organization build a whole set of bunkers throughout the town of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. In fact, the construction of shelters in Saint-Germain-en-Laye does not stop at the construction of private shelters for the benefit of von Rundstedt. The objective is also to keep German soldiers and administrative staff safe in the event of an air attack. In a few months, the Germans will erect a veritable fortress in the heart of Saint-Germain. 22 bunkers, including a huge telecommunications center. A very large complex will be built near Von Rundstedt's villa, a semi-buried command post. This pharaonic bunker is the nerve center of the main headquarters. 60 meters long, three stories, 1200 meters. A gigantic work, hidden in the heart of the royal city, on an old stone quarry. The choice fell on the southern flank of the limestone plateau of Saint-Germain, where, naturally, there were caves used for stone extraction. For several centuries. It was quite easy to fill these caves with a concrete wall and create a virtually undetectable bunker and surely impossible to destroy by bombing. Built in record time and of which the greatest secret, the Allies will never discover the existence of this bunker whose construction was undertaken by the Todt Organization which, for seven months, mobilized three groups of workers often requisitioned by the organization and who took turns day and night to build this enormous building. Once completed, this bunker centralizes all strategic information in France. It is here that all the important decisions will be taken until the landing of June 1944. On June 6, 44, at the time of the Allied landing, was there with all its telecommunications service to try to throw the Allies back into the sea . It is therefore from this room, the map room, that Marshal von Rundstedt and his officers will supervise the defense of the Normandy beaches. In June 1944. Here we are at the heart of the matter. The nerve center of the situation, June 6, 44. In this bunker the room where the cards were laid out was established. Where we receive from another room, which is that of telecommunications, information on the situation and which is reported on the maps by these telephone operators. And as we have seen in the films where we see, they push with a rule of flags which gives the exact situation as it unfolds, which allows the marshal and his officers to try to cope. Two months later, on August 24, 1944, the Germans abandoned their bunker and left Saint Germain en Laye for good. The city was liberated the next day by the Allies. The bunkers are ransacked by the population and left abandoned. Throughout the period of occupation, the French suffered German domination but also the injustices of the Vichy regime. At the other end of France, in the Aspe valley. This military work is one of the witnesses to the madness of Marshal Petain. Built between 1842 and 1870, Fort du Portalet was originally intended to prevent the Spanish from invading French territory. However, it was during the Second World War that this impressive building became famous. For completely different reasons, Philippe Petain will use this military fort to settle scores with the former elites of the Third Republic. Le Portalet will thus become a political prison. But the marshal's dark designs will turn against him. Who are these prisoners? Who, within these walls, knew how to thwart the marshal's ambitions? And above all, how did they achieve this feat at a time when the Vichy government was imposing its omnipotence? In July 1940, Philippe Petain obtained full powers and established an authoritarian regime. France has just suffered a crushing defeat against Nazi Germany. For the marshal, the Third Republic is solely responsible for this humiliation. Philippe Petain is the representative of this France which did not deserve in 14-18, which led to victory, which triumphed over the enemy. And alongside this France, he would like justice to clearly say that the former elites of the Third Republic are the other France, the one which lost the one which led to the defeat. From then on, Philippe Petain had one objective, to bring to justice the former leaders of the Third Republic. And for this, he created a supreme court of justice. Five statesmen were then targeted. Leon Blum, Edouard Daladier, Paul Reynaud, Georges Mandel and General Maurice Gamelin. But a year later, the trial of the Five has still not taken place and Marshal Petain is growing impatient. He therefore envisages what we would call fortress punishment, that is to say political imprisonment in a far, distant, enclosed place. In the end, it was Fort du Portalet which was chosen to imprison the five political leaders of the Third Republic. The sentence was pronounced by Marshal Petain in person on October 16, 1941. A real denial of justice that the Vichy regime tried as best it could to justify. We will therefore overwhelm the fortress with all possible evils. It is a black fortress, a cold citadel, a citadel of fear in which the political leaders in question have been interned. And so, if we cannot overwhelm the detainees, we overwhelm the places. And if they are present in such a dark place, it is because they have done something right. Journalists will thus paint the darkest portraits of Fort du Portalet. However, in reality, the situation is very different. The rights of the five prisoners are indeed violated, but they benefit from preferential detention conditions. What we know is that the prison administration, in 1941, will completely adapt this Portalet fort so that it becomes a prison, so that it can accommodate these exceptional prisoners. For these exceptional prisoners, comfort is necessary. So what is comfort ? This is the running water in the Portalet fort. This is the electrification of Fort du Portalet. Here you see one of these remains. And then these prisoners, It is necessary. We must prevent them from escaping all around Fort Portalet. They are going to put up barbed wire and therefore this barbed wire will make this fort truly a state prison. The prisoners are installed in the former officers' quarters, the most pleasant part of the fort. Their cells have been arranged with the greatest care. Washbasins with hot water, individual toilets, electric heating. A young doctor is even requisitioned to watch over the health of these exceptional prisoners. So here, we are on the first level of the officers' wing, facing a room which was the intern's room, since the prison administration had requisitioned an intern to take care of these prisoners. This intern had been given orders; prisoners are prisoners who are separated from the regime. But at the same time, they were ordered to call them Mr. President, which was addressed to Mr. President, Mr. Minister, when he addressed Mr. Minister. In their cell, the detainees are placed in total isolation. They cannot communicate with each other. On the other hand, they are authorized to communicate with the outside world. Daily, relatives, friends and lawyers go up to Fort du Portalet to visit the prisoners. Therefore, families staying at the Beilhes hostel in Urdos are entitled to 1 hour of visits per day. So, all these families will come down, visit the prisoners, visit them on the terrace that we have above, but also visit them in their cell. And the privileges of these statesmen do not end there. The prisoners all had access to the radio and the daily press, including those of foreign origin which escaped the propaganda and censorship of the Vichy regime. So, on the one hand, we have this dismal image of the fortress that we present to public opinion, but on the other hand, confidentially, these public figures benefited from a fairly liberal regime and ultimately, it is quite common in the history of the French political prison. Because very often, these very dismal fortress sentences have sheltered very liberal regimes. This was the case with the Bastille before it fell during the French Revolution. It was claimed that the Bastille was a place of sinister detention. Except that the people who were actually there were treated extremely well. Finally, the fate of the Portalet prisoners must be sealed during the Riom trial, which opened on February 19, 1942. The stakes were also high for Philippe Petain; this event must serve to legitimize his authoritarian regime and demonstrate that democracy is a bad political system that led France to defeat. But nothing is going to go as planned for the old marshal. The lawsuit turns against him. The defendants use the legal arena to in turn accuse their executioners. Blum's pleadings, and Daladier in particular, made an impact on the international press and public opinion, and it quickly became clear that they were totally innocent. Almost crude facts that they are accused of. The judicial failure is such that Rion's trial will never come to an end. However, the five Portalet prisoners were not released. In November 1942, when the Nazis invaded the free zone. The five from Portalet were handed over to the Germans and deported to Germany. Fort du Portalet came under the command of the German army until the end of the war. The liberation of France by Allied troops marks the end of the Vichy regime. Philippe Petain was arrested in Germany and in July 1945, he was tried for high treason. Sentenced to death. His sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by General de Gaulle and again, Fort du Portalet was once again chosen as a prison. General de Gaulle wanted Philippe Petain to be interned for a short time. Barely a few days would be enough for Fort du Portalet to complete this loop in history by which we would purge this Portalet affair. Philippe Petain stayed at Le Portalet for three months until August 15, 1945. He was then transferred to the island of Yeu where he would end his days. But the history of the fort only ends after the war with a final visit from Paul Reynaud, one of the five exceptional prisoners. After the war, Paul Reynaud returned to the Aspe valley and wanted to revisit his cell. And they say that when he entered the room, he lifted a board. Under this board were hidden ropes. He would have filed a complaint. Behind the complaint, there was a file. This gentleman, who was of a certain age, at one point imagined escaping by going over the cliff. In the years that followed. Fort du Portalet returned to its original military mission until it was definitively demilitarized and left abandoned more than 800 kilometers to the east, in the Maritime Alps. Another military work suffered an incredible fate in June 1940. On the heights of the small village of Sainte-Agnes, we can still see a witness to this incredible story. It's hard to imagine that behind this concrete block hidden in the mountain, there is a huge bunker. 400 soldiers could live in this 2000 square meter underground fort. Fort Sainte-Agnes is part of an impressive defense system in the south of France, which marks one of the most glorious pages of the French army during the Second World War. Glorious and yet little known. How could we forget this decisive episode which took place in 1940? What could this military fort be used for and what is it doing in this specific location? To fully understand this story, we have to go back to the 1920s. Mussolini and his fascist regime are in power in Italy. The Duce then clearly demanded the annexation of certain French territories, the County of Nice, the Duchy of Savoy and Corsica. To do this, he multiplies provocative speeches and openly threatens France. Of course, these are verbal threats. But the French government and especially the French general staff take these threats very seriously, fearing an invasion by the Italian army. The French authorities decided very quickly to build a defense line, the Maginot Line of the Alps. Because, contrary to popular belief, the Maginot Line is not limited to the German border. Between 1928 and 1940, no fewer than 130 fortified structures were built on the Franco-Italian border. A real concrete wall. Construction of Fort Sainte-Agnes began in December 1931. Located on the heights of Menton, in an eminently strategic location, this bunker must be impregnable. And for this, we do not skimp on means. It is an underground city which was designed in four years, with the means of a time when tunnel boring machines did not exist. So we drilled with dynamite, a technique for the time which was still extraordinary. It's 2000 square meters of floor space. We dug under 55 meters of rock. Like all the works of the Maginot line. The fort of Sainte-Agnes is hidden. Objective, protect the troops. So here, we find ourselves on one of the two caps of the northern structure of Sainte-Agnes, which was therefore equipped with two periscopic turrets. Here, we could bring out a periscope to observe the environment at 180 degrees. The soldiers could therefore see, without being exposed to enemy fire. We easily understand that we are in a buried structure. In this way, it is revolutionary compared to everything that has been done before. him. We can say that, just like the submarine operates in immersion underwater with its crew. Well, the Maginot fortification operates in rock burial with its crew also a crew of 400 men who can live in complete autonomy for three months. And from the start of the Second World War, the fort of Sainte Agnes was on alert. In September 1939, when France declared war on Nazi Germany, it expected at any moment that Mussolini, Hitler's ally, would also enter the conflict. But that's not the case. The Italians do not move , which strongly thwarts Hitler's plans. The Fuhrer in fact wishes to open two fronts on French territory, to the north and to the south. Hitler begins to have doubts about the sincerity of his ally. When he sees him doing all this procrastination. It reminds him a little of what happened with Italy in 1914 1915, where we said no, we are not ready, we will intervene later, et cetera And then, in May 1915, the intervention takes place, but against Germany and Austria-Hungary. But this time, the scenario does not repeat itself. In less than a month, Hitler invaded France. It's a debacle. Mussolini then took advantage of the situation to declare war on France. When, on June 10, 1940, around 7 p.m., Mussolini announced in Venice Square in Rome the declaration of war on the United Kingdom and France. The French ambassador replied that our country had just suffered a stab in the back since since the German offensive it is true that we have practically been on our knees. And this expression is used in most of the newspapers on June 11, on the first page, on the cover. And this will, contrary to what Mussolini thought, will galvanize not only the border populations, but especially the border troops At the Fort of Sainte-Agnes as throughout the Maginot Line of the Alps. Soldiers are on high alert. He locks himself in with food and ammunition. Everyone at their post. So. with the cartography rooms and obviously the meteorology room. It is a strategic place because it is here that we will make the calculations which allow us to position the enemy and also provide precise information for the artillerymen. Because the fort of Sainte-Agnes has an impressive strike force. Here, we are in the southern artillery block which is considered the most powerful frontal artillery block in the Alps, since it concentrated six fire casemates on two floors. And if these six casemates fired at the same time, we would obtain a very significant flow of artillery around 60 rounds per minute, which for the time was obviously considerable. At Saint Agnes, we don't just hit hard, we have to assume the worst. If one of the artillery blocks were to fall into enemy hands, this would not endanger the rest of the troops. So, if we take a hand, we find the palm, the palm and the mother gallery, the gallery of empty works, that is to say the barracks, the zone of life and functioning of men. And from there start the finger galleries at the end of which we will find the combat blocks which alone emerge from the mountain where the heavy and light weapons are located, but also the floors. So what ? were to be taken by the enemy, we can always close it. This finger to its tip and finally, the rest of the fort can still function. An ingenious system that was aptly named Fort Palmer. In the Why didn't Mussolini take action after declaring war? In reality, he secretly hoped to be able to take advantage of the German victory to recover the French territories he coveted, without having to fight. Hitler disagrees. This opportunistic attitude greatly displeases him. On July 18, 1940, he summoned Mussolini to Munich to call him to order. If the duchy wants to recover French territories, it will have to conquer them itself. Before the signing of the armistice. The message is clear for Mussolini, we must now cross the Rubicon. We cannot stand by and expect advantages on French territory from a German victory. For this, it will therefore be necessary to pay the blood tax and therefore effectively launch offensives, whether in the Alpes Maritimes, whether in Dauphine or in Savoie. Mussolini's reaction was not long in coming. Two days later, he launched the offensive. On the French side, all the troops are mobilized and yet the fight seems unequal. The proportion of soldiers in the Maginot Line of the Alps, its 85,000 men. Opposite, we will count around 350,000 men. Italian side, which attacks the line. So there are, there are geographical sectors where we will fight one to four in proportion and others squarely to one to six. From then on, we better understand the interest of the forts of the Maginot line of the Alps. But will they be able to resist this wave of Italian soldiers? The fort of Sainte-Agnes intervened in the battle from June 22 to counter the Italian advance on Menton. For two days, the fort's gunners massively bombarded the Italian troops. This made it possible to very quickly force the black shirts and the Italian attackers who were on its outskirts, towards the old town of Menton then towards the far east of the town, towards the borders, towards the border. The Italians were defeated and for the French army, it was one of the rare battles won in 1940. From June 10 to 25, 1940, the French works in the Alps fulfilled their mission to the end. They fought valiantly, they repelled the assaults and above all prevented the French from suffering heavy losses. 37 dead on the French side. The Italians, for their part, have 30 times more, with 642 deaths. As for to remain one of the most beautiful witnesses of this forgotten history. As we have been able to see, the Second World War left its mark many places in France. Places that have not finished revealing all their secrets to us. How will the quiet little town of Dieppe become the scene of the dress rehearsal for the Normandy landings? What secret weapons did the Mimoyecques base in northern France contain? How awful ! Took place at the Milles camp, in the south-east of France. We will see how all these places still hold dark secrets today. During the summer of 1943, the prisons of the Vichy regime were no longer reliable. They face a massive wave of escapes from resistance fighters. For Pierre Laval's government, a solution must be found at all costs. He then decided to concentrate all the resistance prisoners on French territory in a single prison. The Eysses power plant, located in Villeneuve sur Lot, in the south west of France. This old abbey was not chosen by chance because it has a very sinister reputation. Eysses is a penal colony like Cayenne, as hard as Cayenne. For Vichy, it is a model prison. It is the safest prison in France. Eysses, a model prison? If the Vichy regime is convinced of this, the reality will be very different. While Vichy suspects nothing, the prisoners will little by little transform the penal colony. And above all, in the greatest secrecy, they will develop the most important escape plan ever imagined. From October 1943, the first resistance prisoners arrived at Eysses prison. Communists or Gaullists. All currents of the Resistance are represented within the prison. There were 23 nationalities and it was a veritable tower of Babel of all those who had fought Hitler, Mussolini, Franco and Petain. The prison quickly found itself overcrowded. In a few weeks, the number of prisoners increased from 200 to more than 1,200. The prison administration was overwhelmed. The director who manages the prison has the same number of guard supervisors. To maintain order in his prison, he will first ask Vichy for the possibility of arming the guards, which Vichy refuses him because the weapons risk landing in the hands of the resistance. For their part, the resistant prisoners unanimously refused the status of convicts and organized themselves to negotiate with the prison director. We are here in courtyard three, which is one of the four courtyards of the central and which is where the inmates live, once they have gone through the registry formalities. So upon their massive arrival in October 43, the inmates will appoint two delegates to represent them to management. Stephane Fouks, who represents the Gaullist prisoners, and Henri Ozias, who represents the communist prisoners. They will negotiate day by day with Mr. Lassalle, the director of the margins of freedom, and blow up this very harsh regime from the prison of Eysses. Quickly, the inmates obtain their first victory. They no longer have to shave their heads. They obtain the right to express themselves, to assemble and to move freely within the prison grounds. But the prisoners don't stop there. They maintain constant pressure on the prison director in order to further extend their autonomy within the prison. They want to be full citizens. Even in a Vichy prison, he fights every day to ask for more and more freedom, therefore freedom to receive their family, freedom to receive packages, freedom to receive newspapers, books, to train, to cultivate oneself, to do sport. Freedom of expression. He even writes underground newspapers. And the prisoners will even obtain the right to assemble. There will even be a political meeting in this prison, in this courtyard with the effigy of General de Gaulle. And then slogans which are a call to resistance and to build a democratic future in liberated France. This cultural ferment is in reality only the submerged face of the collective organization of the resistance which, at the same time, is clandestinely formed into military battalions. Each courtyard is organized under the authority of a commander. Around thirty officers provide military training under the guise of physical education classes. Everything is implemented very discreetly to develop an escape plan with this utopia, this crazy idea which is to escape at 1200. To organize their escape plan, the prisoners establish their headquarters in the infirmary of the prison run by inmate Paul Veil. A strategic location which made it possible to bring together the leaders of the clandestine military battalion without arousing the suspicions of the administration. Paul Veil who is chief physician will call in sick a certain number of detainees to refine their escape plan, in consultation of course, with the outside world. At the same time, thanks to complicity within the staff, we can bring regional and local resistance leaders clandestinely here. Here, the inmates will therefore organize secret meetings with members of the Resistance. They will even benefit from the support of the National Council of the Resistance which will send a representative there to prepare the collective escape. But getting 1,200 prisoners out of the Eysses power station is a real challenge. And for that, you need weapons. Fifteen machine guns and 30 grenades will therefore be introduced into the prison thanks to the complicity of several guards. So, we are here in a living space, a dormitory. Most inmates lived in dormitories like this one, which were overcrowded. On the bedsteads, we can still see the trace. It was three or four stories high. And so, on these bedsteads, the calligraphed confidants, the clandestine messages intended for the external resistance in order to coordinate the escape plan and at the same time, under the slats of the parquet floor, the Sten submachine guns which had entered the prison clandestinely. In December 1943, the Vichy government was alerted that resistance fighters were taking control of the Eysses prison. The model prison was transformed into a rebel prison. The director is therefore fired. He is replaced by Joseph Chivot, a fanatical militiaman. So they send a director who is not a member of the prison administration, who is a former legionnaire, who is a militiaman. Militiaman in France, at the time, it was an SS who took the Hitler oath. And so it is he who is responsible, with these henchmen, for taking control of the prison. Upon his arrival, Joseph Chivot established a regime of terror. It's the return to the Eysses penal colony. Ban on movement, imposed silence, bullying. So, we are here in a special place in the prison. These are chicken cages where the inmates were locked up all day between 7 p.m. in the evening and 7 a.m. in the morning. They had obtained permission under Director Lasalle to leave these chicken cages open. And when the militiaman Chivot arrived in January 44 to take control of the prison, he increased surveillance and searches and from there, the noose tightened around the collective and the escape plan risked being reconsidered. question. We will have to speed it up. The prisoners took action on the morning of February 19, 1944, during the visit of a Vichy inspector general to the prison. They then captured the director, the inspector general and some supervisors. In silence, the prisoners then take control of almost the entire prison within a few hours. Around 5 p.m., all they have left to do is cross the main courtyard to escape. We are here in the final phase of the escape plan. The inmates disguised as guards aim to take over the guard post located there. Which they managed to do and thus took all the weapons that were there. And what they hadn't expected was that a few meters away, through this front door, a common law inmate came in and raised the alarm. A few hours later. German occupying troops surround the prison and threaten to raze the place with cannons. Long negotiations then began with the detainees. The prisoners are promised that there will be no reprisals and end up surrendering their weapons during the night. Thus ends the greatest escape attempt of the Second World War. On the other hand, for the Vichy regime, this uprising was experienced as a humiliation. The repression will be merciless. Darnand, who is general secretary of law enforcement and head of the militia, travels in person to make an example. And so he asks that there be 50 hostages and 50 hostages shot. To punish this attempt at release within what Vichy considered the safest prison in France, the promise made to the prisoners and therefore flouted by the Vichy authorities. In the end, twelve prisoners held as the leaders of the operation were sentenced to death and shot in the prison courtyard. They die singing the Marseillaise sung in chorus by their comrades who are a few meters away. in prison. Three months later, the 1,200 resistance prisoners from Eysses prison were handed over by the Vichy regime to the Das Reich division and deported to Dachau. 400 of them will die in the camps. The Eysses power station, for its part, still continues to be an active prison today. More than 700 kilometers to the north, in the city of Dieppe. Other French people, too, discreetly resisted against the occupier. Under its cliffs, the city authorities dug galleries during the Second World War. Initially, a simple shelter like so many others , on the occasion of an incredible and little-known episode of the Second World War. This place will be transformed. It will become a hospital with cutting-edge equipment capable of safely welcoming hundreds of civilians. A hospital known to all Dieppe residents but of which the Germans were unaware. How and why was this secret hospital created? A look back at the incredible story of an act of citizen resistance. So in a mysterious place quite unknown to the locals, surrounded by cliffs with 40 meters of cliff above. It is a place which houses several hundred meters of galleries which, during the Second World War, sheltered the inhabitants of Dieppe during the bombings. From the 1930s onwards, the rise of fascism in Europe pushed French cities to prepare for the worst. This is the birth of passive defense. The aim is to protect civilian populations against possible bombings. So we built small shelters, we shored up a few cellars, but we quickly realized that the 12,000 inhabitants were too numerous to be sheltered in simple cellars. So, we started digging galleries under the cliffs to protect the population under 40 meters of chalk. Work on digging the galleries began at the beginning of 1940, during what was known as the Phoney War. In this shelter, passive defense has provided 1,200 seats, electricity to light the galleries, chemical toilets and a food reserve of twelve cubic meters to last a month. In May 1940. Dieppe suffered the first German bombings. The inhabitants took refuge for the first time in these galleries, everyone had about one meter to sit here, could put their little shopping bag next to them and take their little snack. And then people did different activities, knitting, they played cards. He was making a little snack. Well, he always managed to keep himself busy. The children always had a little place to play in the aisle and the goal was to pass the time. A wait that could last from a few minutes to several days. On June 9, 1940, the Germans invaded Dieppe and settled there. Occupied, this coastal town is now the target of Allied bombing. One event in particular will have a lasting impact on the city of Dieppe. August 19, 1942. That day, the Allies attempted a landing on the beaches of Dieppe. A totally unknown episode which nevertheless is the dress rehearsal for the Normandy landings. Two years later, more than 6,000 men appeared in front of Dieppe for a landing attempt. Test the Germans, see their respondent, also try to see the attacks against a port, a commercial port. The English navy and air force rain down a hail of shells on the city of Dieppe. Locked in their shelters, the Germans resist the assault. On the beaches, Allied soldiers were machine-gunned. It's a real massacre. 2000 English, Canadian and French soldiers were killed in the battle. Despite security instructions, the people of Dieppe are lastingly affected by the fighting. The toll was heavy: 24 dead, 50 injured and many buildings destroyed. Unfortunately, on this day of August 19, 1942, the people of Dieppe realized that it really was a disaster for them. They have difficulty finding shelter. the Hospital is too close to the fighting. We must therefore quickly find a solution to protect the hospital from combat zones and bombings. For this, the authorities of the city of Dieppe decided to transfer him to the famous anti- bombing shelters. A real technical and logistical challenge, because all this is done behind the backs of the Germans. They will never know of the existence of this clandestine hospital. A well-kept secret among the Dieppe population, as Dr. Lesieur, the hospital's chief surgeon, points out in his memoirs. Doctor Lesieur, in his book, testifies that when he met the mayor to refuel the generator with the two ten-liter cans of fuel oil, he said "with an ox on the tongue", that really meant because I keep it a secret. It's a very, very Norman expression. The beef on the tongue, that's it. Everyone keeps the secret. But it was a secret for the Germans. How did they not know? I don't know. From September 1943, the secret hospital was operational. At its head, we therefore find Doctor Lesieur, but also Doctor Maillard, in charge of general medicine. Under its cliffs, everything is designed to function as in a real hospital, starting with this room. So, here, we are in the entrance to the hospital, the arrival airlock for the wounded and sick. You have to imagine a corridor here, in the middle of each side. Six locations for arriving wounded. Then they were either sent to the operating room to be taken right away by the doctors, or sent to the hospital to be treated by the nurses. 1500 people were treated here during the Second World War. Although clandestine, this hospital nevertheless has all the comforts to accommodate patients. A large hospital gallery, another for intensive care patients , a maternity ward. 21 babies will be born under these 40 meters of cliff. But above all, a real surgical service. Here we find a large room, also concreted, which was sterilized on the ground. We find, from the floor tiles, it is the operating room. Two operating theaters allowed a doctor or two doctors to operate directly on patients here. A large electrical unit with a large light allowed the doctor to have a good view of the wound in order to treat it. This room was also directly connected in the Chamber of Nurses and the Chamber of Doctors. So here, we are in an important room of the hospital since it is the doctors' rest room. When they were not on call, Doctor Lesieur made sculptures. We see here the coat of arms of the city of Dieppe. We also discover a drawn nose, so we don't know if it is that of Doctor Lesieur or that of Doctor Maillard. From the beginning of 1944, Allied bombings intensified on Dieppe. Under the cliff, the medical teams live to the rhythm of the attacks. So here, we find ourselves in a small, very cramped room which served as a cupboard and which we called the funk bar. Bombing time. The nurses who were right next door, their children when they were with them, would come and hide and huddle here. It was really the secure place in the underground and to further protect the hospital. The authorities of the city of Dieppe even discreetly tried to send messages to the Allies. In the middle of this site. All the manna that had been extracted had been spread out with bricks that had been crushed. The passive defense had managed to draw a red cross in its center to warn the Allied planes not to bomb this place since it was a hospital. On September 1, 1944, the city of Dieppe was liberated by the Allies. the Hospital continued its activity until February 1945. From then on, it was abandoned and fell into oblivion. In Aix en Provence, in the south east of France. Another forgotten place was also rediscovered a few years ago, the Milles camp. A former tile factory converted into an internment camp. But this is not the only mystery of this place. Why, at the start of the war, did France lock up here those it should have protected, namely opponents of the Nazi regime? Why did she then organize their escape in incredible conditions? And how did this place experience a double life? By becoming a cog in the Nazi death machine. A sad fate which began in September 1939. France declared war on Nazi Germany. The old tile factory was then requisitioned by the French army. It becomes an internment camp. The Third Republic will decide to open internment camps for enemy subjects in France. So who are his enemy subjects? Foreign people living on French territory and from countries against which France is going to war. Initially, what qualifies the internees of Les Milles for the French authorities is their nationality, the fact that they are German or Austrian. What the population, without deluding themselves, calls debauchery. But then why do we lock up these foreigners? The government and especially the French military staff consider them dangerous. The authorities are in fact convinced that France is an impregnable fortress which can only be destabilized from within by the existence of a fifth column. A climate of suspicion then settles in the country. Foreigners are the first to be targeted. It is believed that among these foreigners who immigrated to French territory there are people who are the soldiers who will take up arms in the name of starting the war and who will constitute a military column in the heart of France. And we are terrified of that. We checked by 100 because our men, our forces, are concentrated at the borders. We say that if a German military column rises in the middle of France, it will be capable of overthrowing the Republic in a few days. However, at the Milles camp, the internees absolutely do not have the profile of spies or soldiers. They are mainly vacationers, artists and even intellectuals. Many of them are even refugees who left Germany, frightened by the rise of Nazism. We are going to intern the German intelligentsia who have taken refuge in particular on the Cote d'Azur because we see them first and foremost as Germans or Austrians. We don't take into account the fact that they are anti-Nazi. The Milles camp opened its doors in haste on September 6, 1939. It was laid out summarily. The soldiers erected barbed wire around the tile factory and installed bales of straw to allow the internees to sleep. When the internees arrive at the Milles camp, they are taken inside this building, to the ground floor of this building in which we are and the atmosphere that they discover in this building is quite close to that which we discover today. Nothing is really planned to accommodate the internees in this old factory and yet their number continues to grow as the weeks go by. We will quickly reach 2,500 people interned here. We are going to have up to 3,500 people locked up at the same time in a building which is a workplace, a factory which was operating and which hosted 60 workers before the camp period. Only one tap provides unsafe water and there are not even toilets in this overcrowded camp. The internees must therefore live in deplorable hygienic conditions. The sewers flow among people, among sleeping people. Internal parasite problems will generate epidemics, particularly diphtheria. And every time a man got up to go to the latrines, he explained to us in the testimonies that he had to fight ten times and when he himself was the victim of an epidemic. We could no longer stand being beaten and we ended up making the decision to relieve ourselves where we slept. Despite their deplorable living conditions, the internees are not going to let themselves be defeated. Starting with the artists, some of whom are already famous, such as the painters Hans Bellmer and Max Ernst, or the writer Lion Feuchtwanger, with the blessing of the camp commander. They will try to put a little life back inside this hell. Every day, the internees organize conferences, painting or sculpture workshops. They will even set up a cabaret in the old Tuilerie oven. So, we are here in a place which is highly symbolic in the history of the Milles camp, Die Katakombe. Die Katakombe and the name of a protesting Berlin cabaret, very famous in Germany, which was closed by Joseph Goebbels as soon as Hitler came to power in 1933. The first German internees who arrived at the Milles camp tried to recreate Die Katakombe, a place of artistic expression which is considered by many internees as a place of freedom. You have to imagine that this place was completely covered with traces of paint, theater sets which covered the entire oven. The resumption of activity in 1947 will cause these paintings to disappear and burn, with the exception of a trace of paint which remains at the very bottom of the oven behind me. For several months, the Milles camp will therefore be the place of an intense cultural abundance which contrasts with the execrable living conditions. Even today, many traces, decorations and graffiti remain on these walls. But life in the Milles camp will be turned upside down. From June 1940, the debacle of the French army raises fears of the imminent arrival of the Nazis in the South. At the Milles camp, there is panic. The people who are here, for the most part, are opponents of the fascist regime. Many of them are sentenced to death by their own countries. They are convinced that if the German army finds them here, or the Italian army for that matter which is arriving from the east, they risk being either executed on the spot or sent home to be executed. . The internees must flee France as quickly as possible. Its a question of life or death. For this, they will not hesitate to ask for help from the camp commander, aware that the lives of the internees are in great danger. The French officer will do the unthinkable. Against the advice of his superiors, he is going to requisition a train. Thanks to him, 2000 internees will leave the Milles camp. An incredible adventure. This is the episode we call the freedom train or the ghost train. So why the ghost train? Because this train does not appear in the train running records. It is not authorized. There is another important element: we do not want the German army to be able to trace this train and therefore the internees who took the train. Internees have no room for error. They can be unmasked or caught at any moment. On June 22 , 1940, the ghost train left Les Milles station towards the Atlantic coast thanks to the complicity of the railway workers. The train crosses the south of France, running when the tracks are not in use. A journey under high tension. Three days later, he reaches his goal when the unthinkable happens. A terrible misunderstanding while passing through Toulouse station. One of the train officers sends the following information to the Bayonne station master. I am arriving with a train of Germans, we must provide food. He speaks well of the internees at the Mlles camp. But the Bayonne station master, who at the same time heard on the radio, like all the other French people, that the German army was arriving in the South, was convinced that it was an army train. German. And he will make the decision to lock Bayonne station and force all trains that arrive to turn around. Big disillusionment and return to square one for the ghost train internees who are forced to return to the Milles camp. Another twist of fate on June 25, 1940, the armistice signed between France and Germany came into force. France is cut in two to the north, the occupied zone, and to the south the free zone. The Milles camp is now out of reach of the Nazis. From there, most of them will be able to go into exile. While the Milles camp seemed destined for abandonment. The Vichy government will give it another function. The artists' camp is over, it will become an airlock to death. From the summer of 1942, the government of Pierre Laval agreed to participate in the final solution. The Vichy regime then promised the Nazis to hand over all foreign Jews in the free zone. Raids are increasing throughout the country. Jewish families were gathered at the Milles camp a few days before being deported. The trains were prepared on the deportation platform which can be seen just behind me. The next morning, at 5 a.m., the families would be called to gather in the courtyard to carry out the screening, reading the names on lists that had already been prepared and the people would be brought by the mobile reserve guards towards the deportation dock. For a month, deportations followed one another. To make matters worse, children aged one and over are deported with their parents. The Germans didn't ask for it. It was the Vichy government which proposed it. It is a moment of extreme emotional intensity during which there was a very significant number of suicides at the Milles camp, particularly on the windows which are located right at this level. One of them just behind me, windows through which the internees could see the train and the people who were taken in the wagons. And in these suicides, a suicide that will mark the internees that we find in numerous testimonies, it is the suicide of this mother who jumped out of the window with her two babies. In total, during this period, around 2000 Jews were deported from the Milles camp. Forgotten after the war, the history of the Milles camp was only rediscovered in the early 1980s. Today, the old tile factory has become a place of memory, a place which reminds us that the horror was indeed present in France. Denial of justice, summary executions or even murderous madness. During the Second World War, the Third Reich and the Vichy regime subjected the French to the worst atrocities. We will now see that in the occupied zone. The excess of the Nazi regime has no limits. From 1943, Hitler had only one obsession, to end this war which had lasted too long. He then entrusts Reich scientists with a mission of the utmost importance to find the Wunderwaffe, the miracle weapon, ever more destructive, which will reverse the course of the war and allow the Nazis to impose their domination on Europe. And it is in Mimoyecques, near Calais, in an incredible underground bunker, that one of the most devastating weapons of the Second World War must be stored . This place behind me is a place that is a secret base. Besides, we only see a gallery here behind me and this place aims to send, with the help of a crazy project, a cannon with multiple charges more than 3000 shells per day on the city center of London. This crazy project is this weapon, the V3, a revolutionary cannon. Imagine several tubes which, once assembled, reach a length of 127 meters, a record at the time. The range of this weapon is also a record 165 kilometers, just enough to reach London. The objective is clear to quickly capitulate the British by a weapon which remains a terrorist weapon. She is there to kill indiscriminately, to kill civilian victims. All means are good to make England capitulate. So the Nazis stop looking for the lethal weapon. The V3 multiple charge cannon is thus part of a larger program, the famous secret weapon V v3 is supposed to complete the arsenal alongside the V1 flying bomb and the formidable stratospheric rocket of Wernher von Braun V2. To house these secret weapons. The Germans built numerous installations in the north of France during the summer of 1943. It was in this context that work began in Mimoyecques. A place that was not chosen by chance. The goal is to be far enough away from the coast so as not to be visible to enemies, to be close to a high voltage line, a railway line. There is one that is not very far away. And then to be within reach of the British capital, since here, as the crow flies, we are 165 kilometers from Big Ben. The construction of the Mimoyecques base is entrusted to the Todt organization, responsible for major works soldiers of the Reich. Although today only a few accessible galleries remain, the original project was gigantic and the resources involved were considerable. 1,500 men are mobilized day and night on this site. This place of Mimoyecques is a real underground city. Once the site is finished, the construction site is finished. 1200 people must work here on two levels. A first level where we are less than 30 meters away. This 600 meter long gallery, which will accommodate the munitions, the garrison and the various men. And then at the -100 meter level, so 70 meters under our feet, people who will be at the base of the cannon. Problem such an important base risks not going unnoticed. So the Germans took great care to build this fortress in the chalk to better protect it from Allied bombings. But on the Allies side, we know that the threat is real. The detection of secret Reich constructions is therefore a priority objective. During the Second War, two methods were used to try to find these secret sites that we cannot see. The first method is intelligence, intelligence, resistance services, which will inform here that something abnormal is happening. And then, the second piece of information is that the Royal Air Force developed aerial photography during the Second World War. The goal is to pass over a site, photograph it and a few weeks later, take the same photograph again to see if anything has happened. It's the game of seven differences after all. In 1943, a real race against time began between the Allies and the Nazis around the construction of the Mimoyecques fortress. If the work progresses by leaps and bounds. The Germans must above all solve a major problem in making the famous V3 cannon work. Main technological challenge: inventing a new shell. World War I shells look like suppositories. They have an air penetration coefficient which is not good. They slow down a lot. Additionally, they are rotated in the barrel, so they are connected to the barrel when it starts. And like they're stable, but they don't go that far. If we want to go very far, very quickly, we need shells that are under-calibrated. That is to say that if the cannon is said, the shell must have a much smaller diameter. That way, it doesn't touch the wall. The Germans believe they have found the solution. One of their most eminent specialists created the arrow shell, a real revolution. So it will look like a dart. It will be very long. He will be able to go further. It will have a better aerodynamic coefficient. But to hit London right in the heart. The arrow shell must reach the astonishing speed of 1500 meters per second, that is to say a little more than four times the speed of sound. And this is where the V3 barrel comes in, specially designed to accelerate the arrow shell until it exits the barrel. The shell starts with a classic charge and it progresses in a very long barrel which is more than 127 meters and at each of its passages, in front of what are called auxiliary charges. They will start again to propel it especially since there are 32 successive accelerations inside the gun and the shell will come out at the incredible speed of 1500 meters per second, which corresponds to a little more than 5000 kilometers per hour. While the first tests of the V3 took place in Germany from May 1943. The Allies intensified their surveillance of northern France. And on September 18 , 1943, the Royal Air Force spotted the digging work of the two railway tunnels of the secret base of Mimoyecques. From there, the fortress became a priority target for Allied bombing. The Mimoyecques site is probably the largest special construction site bombed during the Second World War. More than 4,000 tons of bombs will be dropped. It's as if 4000 cars were descending here, on the site of the Mimoyecques fortress. 4000 tonnes is a landscape that is devastated. The city. Next to it, Landrethun le Nord is completely destroyed. 6,500 bombs will fall from the sky. It's a rain of shells on the fortress of Mimoyecques. A deluge of bombs and yet Mimoyecques suffered very little damage. But the message is clear, the Germans are under pressure. They know that time is running out, that the Allies will soon return to the attack. We must therefore make this base operational as quickly as possible. In Germany, they are intensifying testing of the V3. Fail after failure, they must resolve a serious design problem. Everything happens in the first 127 meters. It's the work of a watchmaker, it's very, very meticulous. The successive charges in the cannon must explode after the passage of the shell to push it forward. Above all, it must not explode beforehand because it obviously risks slowing down, on the contrary. However, it turns out that when the primary charge explodes, there are sometimes gases which exceed the shell at the rear of the gun and which set fire to the front auxiliary powders. Which in fact will slow down the shell during its progression. In other words, if the auxiliary charges of the cannon explode before the passage of the arrow shell, they will slow it down instead of accelerating it and thus reduce its speed. So actually, it's a synchronization point. The shell will never reach more than 1100 meters per second, so there is almost a fifth of the speed missing for ejection speed. That's a real technological problem. A problem which delays the commissioning of Mimoyecques. And the allies intend to take advantage of it. The failure of the first bombings forced them to revise their plans to destroy the fortress of Mimoyecques. They will then use a new type of bomb, the Tall Boy. Six meters high, two and a half tons of a powerful explosive, Torpex D. The objective of this giant bomb is to create a mini earthquake so that the underground installations collapse. So the Tall Boy will be dropped at an altitude of 5,500 meters and it will hit the ground at 1,200 kilometers per hour. And there, it will sink into the soil up to 30 meters deep. And it's definitely not going to explode right away. The idea is that it freezes in the ground and there, there is a self-timer which counts between 30 seconds and a quarter of an hour depending on the needs, therefore adjustment. And it will explode only at the end of this time to clear around it a huge crater which will be 30 meters deep and 50, maybe 40 or 50 meters wide. It remains to test the effectiveness of this super-powerful bomb. On July 6, 1944, the English dropped two Tall Boys on the fortress of Mimoyecques. The air attack is a success. Mi moi gave in at the end of this raid. The damage was so considerable that the Germans decided to condemn the site. He will be evacuated 20 days later. The observation is clear, no shell will ever be fired from Mimoyecques. It is a bitter failure for the Reich. We put human resources and financial resources into a place we build. But the technology itself of the Canon V3 will never be perfect. We thought we'd do it quickly. We thought we were doing well and well. In 1943 and 1944, we were doing very poorly. Perhaps an indicator of a Nazi regime that is already in dire straits. Despite the resources involved, V3 technology was quickly abandoned by the Nazis. As for the Mimoyecques base, it will be definitively neutralized after the war. During the Second World War, the Germans imposed their domination throughout the occupied zone and even in the heart of Paris, at Les Invalides. On the night of December 14, 1940, around 1 a.m., a convoy of German soldiers arrived at Les Invalides. They are transporting an immense bronze sarcophagus containing the ashes of Napoleon's son. In the courtyard, 200 Republican guards form a double hedge to receive the coffin. The Germans put in place a whole ceremonial, a ceremonial with the SS, with the torches, with the flags, the SS runes, et cetera. So what does this strange ceremony mean within the Invalides itself? Why are the Germans organizing what strongly resembles a pagan SS ritual under the big dome? To understand this story, we have to go back to June 1940. The day after the signing of the armistice between France and the Third Reich. Hitler goes to Paris as a victor. He wants to take full advantage of his victory. Accompanied by around thirty dignitaries of the Nazi regime. The Fuhrer circulates in the early morning in the deserted capital. Hitler comes to Paris with his architect, with his favorite sculptor. And he makes an almost tourist visit since he comes to see the perspective of the Eiffel Tower from the Palais de Chaillot and he comes to see the Invalides. The Invalides are the highlight of the Fuhrer's visit. He absolutely wants to visit the majestic tomb of Napoleon I. And for the occasion, he will even wear a large white coat. White is often the ceremonial uniform. It's true that in France, for example, often, major outfits are all or part white. There is even the expression which refers to the full dress model 1931 and which has become common language to dress up. I believe that there was certainly a hidden reverence from Hitler for Napoleon and therefore he will indeed on this occasion to realize this fantastic mausoleum. Under the dome of the Invalides, Hitler bows for a long time before the red quartz tomb . A theatrical attitude which, in fact, is the exact replica of a gesture made in 1806 by Napoleon himself. After inflicting a defeat on the Prussian armies, the Emperor went to Potsdam to the tomb of Frederick II. Hitler intends to place himself in a particularly prestigious historical continuity, through this visit and this gesture, knowing that, of course, he himself projects himself into a Reich of 1000 years. At the end of his visit, Hitler ordered that the ashes of L'Aiglon, Napoleon's son, kept until now in Austria, be returned to France. Objective to seal reconciliation between Germany and France in the future great Nazi Europe. A seemingly spontaneous decision. This decision had been proposed to him a few years earlier. In the 1930s, some, under the cover of Franco-German reconciliation, were already, in a certain way, preparing what would be collaboration. The fate of the ashes of L'Aiglon will therefore be closely linked to the policy of collaboration. The collaboration policy is a bit. Give me your watch, I'll tell you the time, which is something they don't commit to. It is clear the habit of signing documents which only bind those who believe in them. So he ultimately doesn't expect much from collaboration . What awaits him is that France is willing to let itself be plundered willingly. A one-way collaboration which is not to Philippe Petain's taste. The old marshal is now suspicious of the Fuhrer. And so, when he received Hitler's invitation to attend the ceremony for the return of L'Aiglon's ashes to Paris, he politely declined. Petain is afraid of a coup. He is afraid that he will be taken hostage in Paris to be placed under the authority of the ultras of collaboration and these ultras of collaboration who have all created Nazi-inspired parties. Petain doesn't want them and he doesn't want to be alongside them in Paris. The day before the ceremony, December 13, 1940. Pierre Laval went to Vichy in person to convince Petain to reverse his decision. In vain for the marshal. It is now clear that the vice president is working behind his back to remove him from power. The face of this possible conspiracy is Laval. It's Laval who looks at him with a very suspicious look. And Laval may show good faith and a desire for obedience, but the marshal is not fooled. The same day, Philippe Petain dismisses Pierre Laval. And so, it's a bolt from the blue for the first person concerned, who didn't see anything coming, who protested loudly. Petain tells him that he cannot work together, that he does not give the same direction to politics and that, in these conditions, he does not wish to keep him in government. Laval revoked, Marshal Petain absent. The operation to return the ashes of L'Aiglon was therefore a fiasco for Hitler. This great moment of reconciliation desired by Hitler is a great missed moment. It is a great missed moment of unanimous communion of the French nation with the German nation. Emptied of its political content, the ceremony is now only symbolic. As a result, the Germans prepared an impressive device, a decorum that could make one think of some mystical deviation that certain high Nazi dignitaries were accustomed to. The date of the ceremony, the night of December 14 to 15, 1940, is also symbolic. This is the centenary of the return from the tomb of Napoleon I, on December 15, 1840. We wanted to make an impression and we see for the first time in Paris French, military authorities and German military authorities communing in a kind of unique and very atypical event. We are at the Gare de l'Est on December 14, 1940. It is 9 p.m. The bronze sarcophagus containing the ashes of Napoleon's son has just arrived at the station aboard a special train from Vienna. 24 soldiers are needed to remove this 800 kilo coffin and place it on an artillery extension. He was then transferred to Les Invalides. The convoy takes a very long time to cross Paris. You have to imagine that it's nighttime, that it's the occupation that makes the weather snowy, that it's the curfew. Around 1 a.m., the convoy finally arrived at Les Invalides. The German soldiers then handed over the heavy sarcophagus of Napoleon's son to the Republican guards. The French guests present to witness this ceremony are few in number. General Lohr represents Marshal Petain and Admiral Darlan, the Vichy government. But the bulk of the troops are made up of the ultras of the Collaboration. In fact, this German ceremony in occupied Paris sums up what the collaboration was. That is to say that the collaboration was first and foremost a gigantic fool's bargain. Let's say, they steal our coal and give us ashes. At the end of the ceremony, the sarcophagus of L'Aiglon is placed in this chapel and quickly sinks into oblivion. Until 1968, when a more worthy location was found. He is finally buried in a vault opposite that of his father. Today, only an engraving on the ground allows us to see its location. The Second World War profoundly changed the face of our country and left behind many places of memory. From here to the dark destiny of an immense underground bunker located throughout the territory. Places steeped in history, places linked to the Second World War in France have not finished revealing all their secrets to you. SO ?