Let's go open up, it's time for parkour. Alright, time for my mandatory parkour check. Let's get this over with. You're late, you know the deal. You can do the one block jump for the raw chicken, or you can attempt the one block vertical jump for the beef. Here in parkour civilization, no one chooses to jump for the beef. It's better to be safe and do the one block jump for the chicken rather than risk your entire life for just half a hunger bar more. I'm sure that at this point everyone has seen this in some format, perhaps not the original video. But maybe clips of it on YouTube shorts or on your Instagram reels for example. Especially if you're in the Minecraft community. But for those who are outside the loop, this is a Minecraft series or movie by FBO set in this strange world where parkour reigns supreme. It's used as currency, exists as the cultural background in setting, and even literary works are written in parkour. Memes aside though, I find this to be quite a profound philosophical dilemma actually. Something like the trolley problem? We begin with the first level of unpacking this question, which is simply to answer the question, would you jump for the chicken or the beef? That is to say, would you rather choose a life of safety with stagnance (stagnation oops) or take the risk for the potential for something more? The correct answer would be to take that risk, of course. In the context of parkour civilisation, even though the jump for the chicken is easier than the jump for the beef, the risk is not zero. You can still fail that jump, and if you do, you end up falling into the void and into parkour prison. By looking at the cost benefit ratio, we can come up with something similar to Pascal's Wager. Pascal's Wager is a philosophical and theological argument in favor of believing in God. If you choose to believe, you don't really lose anything in the event that He doesn't. But if He does, you get rewarded with getting into heaven. On the other hand, if you don't choose to believe, again, you don't lose much if you were right. But if He does exist and you are wrong, you get sent to hell. And so on balance, it just seems like a better option to believe than not to. The original argument itself is a whole other can of worms that I won't be going into, but I'm just using it in a way to visualize the choices in particular civilization. As you can see by weighing the benefits against the risk, I would argue that it's probably a better choice to try to jump for the beef. But wait, there's more. You would have noticed the use of quotation marks and perhaps the slight difference in the intonation for 'better', despite my rather monotone voice. By itself, raw beef fills up more hunger than raw chicken and provides more saturation. But what does that mean exactly? Sure, you can live a little more comfortably, or even afford to scrimp a little here and there to start sprinting, or have an easier time challenging the trials to rank up and so on and so forth. So in that sense, it's better. But if the system was rigged from the beginning, which it is, what does it matter? Parkour civilization exists as a false meritocracy, and living in Singapore, I should know. We're very big on that. A common criticism of the system is that it may neglect those who are naturally disadvantaged, like those already in poverty who have less access to extra tuition, extracurricular activities, or maybe even normal schooling. Obviously, Parkour Civilization is the extreme case of this, where your rank is decided since the moment you join the world. And the way to rank up from your initial position is literally impossible unless you were the main character like Evbo. And even if you didn't know that the final jump was impossible, the journey to even get the opportunity to try to beat the cause is so difficult, which only serves to further discourage anyone from making the attempt in the first place. Jumping for the beef doesn't seem like such a good deal now, does it? And Pascal's Wager now seems a little bit more like this. Of course, it is still debatable, since even if you were to stay on the same level, living on beef would be a much better choice than living on raw chicken to make everything a little bit more comfortable. The point is, the question of choosing between the chicken and beef risk against stability seems a lot more difficult and less direct than it did initially, doesn't it? Still, we can climb even higher, to the next level. Remember the false memory implanted into every member in parkour civilization? We don't know what happened to the world or if it was always like this to begin with. But the existence of the memory shows at least a capacity to imagine a world outside of the one that they are in. The question is, how willing are people to accept a new reality so different from the one they've known for so long? Just as Seawatt said, the value of parkour in currency and social status is a social construct, kind of how we see money in real life. But at least money is a relatively fair representation of goods and services. While parkour is actually completely unnecessary. They could have had everyone come together and gather blocks to build a massive consecutive island platform, for instance, to live on, removing the need to jump. Not to mention the mandate that enforces parkour in exchange for necessities like food, when once again the system is already pitted against them to have no other method to get food. The only way of becoming successful is defined by a strict singular set of rules. With the same strictness in defining success in that world. Be good at parkour. It's not a great world to live in, at the very least. But even as Apple has overcome SeaWorld to become the new parkour champion, he only made improvements in making ranking up possible and making the role of parkour champion less tyrannical. Blogs are now free to build parkour courses, but why not make a platform? Parkour can still remain as currency without the risk of dying, and most crucially, the existence of the parkour caste system is still there. It's more fair in terms of being given the opportunity to try to rank up and work hard based on ability. Again, meritocracy. Except its actual meritocracy this time. But the different starting points still makes it unfair. For example, what if someone was really good at candle gems or neo gems or one of those really difficult end game jumps, but never got the chance to do that or try it out or even see it in person because they were really bad at a simpler jump?Now obviously I get it, it's meant for law and maybe physics reason in that world, and of course for storytelling purposes. But it does put into perspective a lot of the social constructs we have come up with that we all do and accept without really considering if alternatives are possible, usually dismissing them as ridiculous ideas bounded by our morals, ideals and philosophy. Is this an issue with a right answer in the first place?Or is it literally impossible for us to consider alternatives due to some limits in human cognition? No, no, no, no, we're not going into that today. First of all, I've been talking a little bit too much about this, and more importantly, there really isn't any contextual evidence in this case that presents this theme. I mean, feel free to consider the topic on its own, of course. Umm, but objectively speaking, it is absent in progressive civilization, as far as I can tell. All right, that was a lot. I just want to round things up by saying that it's not that deep, as in, probably not to the extent of analysis the creator intended for, though I could also be very well underestimating him. Anyways, I just thought it was interesting and wanted to talk about it and do it justice. Hence the perhaps excessive degree of analysis over a block game, though I do feel like it strongly parallels the way we make decisions in real life. It feels so easy to give advice to someone to go and follow your dreams. Yolo. Do whatever you want and aim for the stars and criticize those who don't do that and choose to be meek as cowardly people who have no ambition. But when the responsibility of choice lands on your shoulders, it's so difficult to even step out of your comfort zone for the smallest decisions. I mean, I sometimes find it difficult to step foot into a new restaurant or store because I'm afraid I don't know how to order or buy things there and potentially embarrassing myself, even though logically and objectively speaking, I know that literally nobody cares and the staff are there to help you. And then there is the question of jobs and futures. How many people can truly say that they are pursuing a future in what they want instead of a more secure alternative? And yet they are not to be criticized for that. I mean, it makes perfect sense chasing your dreams in this economy. To conclude, we return to the primary question. Are you willing to jump for the beef?