Hello Everyone for those of you who don't about, how old are you Mike? 29? I'm the oldest of the McCusker brothers, and I'm the first of us to work electrical with Western University, and the first to bartend But, somehow the last to finish school. And, I'm Kyle, the youngest of the McCusker I've known Mike for just about 23 years now For those of you know don't know me it's &quot;Our there's &quot;Scott, he's got his PHD and he specializes oh my god he's going to take over the company&quot; We would like to start by just thanking everyone Char. It is a true testiment to the Bride and Groom your busy schedules to come and witness their We would also like to congratulate Mike and Whitby, or even Canada, has even seen. This power couple will go to the gym at 4 8-hour shift, come home, make financially for the next two weeks. Yeah, Mike and Char take hastag couplegoals My girlfriend Kal and Iare practising physicians we wonder where the hell we went wrong. Imagine being part of the Amazing Race and I'm going to be in tomorrow&quot;. Thats pretty much how it would go essentially. Everyone in this audience today is safe because parenting&quot;, but we're Mike's brothers so we Where's Charlotte's brother Chris? You know exactly what I'm talking about. Mike asked us to do his speech today, and doing this, but he thought it would be the likely to offend him then anyone else in this So, growing up Mike was the athelete. He playe Triple A Hockey with current NHL as well as played lacrosse with the current Lacrosse team right now. He was also intelligent and got an honors which essentially means he got higher grades Everything came natural to Mike and because child&quot;. But, we're here tonight to debunk that misconception. Dad, would you kindly stand up and let everyone the golden child. Um, well the way I see it guys and I'll say Mike, theres no way he's the golden child, I love all three of my boys, golden, not a no way! Alright old man sit down, we're done here! Yeah dad thats enough of that. But yeah, Mike definitely made our parents How couldn't he. But the only person more proud of Mike than That guy loves to boast about himself. During his years in school, he effortlessly Didn't try, 95s, sure. High school, guy played Triple A Hockey, comes and he's only talking about his practices I mean great job pal what round you get drafted University, he's all into fitness now, and more focussed on his body fat percentage going about that. So modest about his education. And all these great things to go to Mike's of a peanut! But yeah that was during school and he's all a little bit more humble? Maybe. But in 2016 he took Charlotte to the Willis &quot;You're welcome&quot;. Jokes aside, Mike honestly you are a role room tonight. I'm your older brother and Iook up to you... litterally I can't believe you are taller You have a discipline that is on a completely this room tonight. You show us the right way to share, and you you show us the right way to love, and with you will show us the right way to live happily And thats the real we are here tonight right? Charlotte. I've known Charlotte for about almost 8 years While Mike was in University essentially duplicating facial hair, he told me about a girl that My first impression of Charlotte is that she Obviously confirming the old adage that opposites She fit in instantly with our family, as well drinks at The Keg. And we love her for that. So tonight, it is amazing just to see Charlotte. Our first impression tonight, obviously she Everyone obviously agrees so lets get a round The dress is beautiful obviously a change So Charlotte, tonight is your night, and our not be more excited. Everyone here today agrees that both of you And, you're both amazing inside and out, best couldn't be luckier. So, to that, so everyone to that stand up Today Mike and Charlotte get married, and you becoming our sister we need to share with you need to know to be a McCusker. Okay. Number one you do not ever!... Oh, ugh, I've just been told that it's actually to wrap this up. Sorry guys! Cheers guys! Cheers to Mike and Char! Well I think everyone will agree Scott and Give them a round of applause. Next up we're going to have Charlotte's parents.