In the year 1812, a young United States of and launched a full-scale invasion of Canada. No one expected the poorly defended British foe, and yet, it did. Canada's salvation came arguably in the form He was fighting for his people, the indigenous His alliance with the British was out of convenience a united Native nation across the American lost. Welcome to our video on the life of Tecumseh. Shoutout to the Ridge Wallet for sponsoring Members of our team have been using Ridge recommend them to all of our viewers. They don't fold, don't bulge in your pocket, design. Ridge Wallets are a great Christmas gift for Ridge holds up to 12 cards and has an attached It comes in 30 different colours and styles, burnt titanium. For us, switching from the old wallets to super fancy gaming armchairs. But don't take our word for it - ridge Each wallet comes with a lifetime warranty like it, that they'll let you try it for If you don't love it, just send it back Support our channel and get 10% off today going to ridge.com/KINGSANDGENERALS and using To tell Tecumseh's story from the very beginning, Native tribes had inhabited North America upon them by Europeans had apocalyptic effects By the time the first English pilgrims arrived had killed 90% of the local population. By the 18th century, the Eastern Seaboard with tribes like the Pequot, Powhatan and out of their homes. Now peoples like the Odawas, Shawnees, Lenape on the border of this expansion. Further inland, the French Empire claimed Louisiana. It was a sparsely populated land where native or less equal partners in the incredibly lucrative The French tended not to impose on Native against British expansion. This all changed in 1754, as when the Seven England and France found themselves in a war natives were forced to pick sides. The six nations of the Iroquois declared for fought alongside the French. The French were ultimately defeated, and their The British now ventured inland, occupying and Ohio. It was well known that unlike the French, to flatten and tame the land, and displace As settlers began to trickle westwards, and whispers of war began to spread amongst the In 1763, the Odawa Chieftain Pontiac created to wage a bloody and vengeful war upon the His native confederacy raised hell, capturing over 2,000 settlers and 400 soldiers. Pontiac's fierce resistance forced the British in which the thirteen colonies promised not Peace was made in 1766, and the tide of the would soon come to native peoples once more. Two years later, the man fated to lead them In March of 1768, Tecumseh was born to the river. It is said that upon giving birth, his mother across the night sky. This is where the child got his name, Tecumseh The Shawnee had long been a wandering people, In centuries past, the Iroquois had pushed They had settled in many places before coming but turmoil and warfare would carry over into In the same year he was born, the Iroquois the British. These were plains the Shawnee depended on they were ignored by both the British and So, when continental settlers began pouring Shawnee warriors prepared to defend their In 1774, a six-year-old Tecumseh watched his partake in a ritual war dance before heading They met their foe at Point Pleasant, a force the "Big Knives" on account of the sabres Outnumbered and outgunned, the native warriors As a result, the Shawnee were forced to relinquish to move westward with impunity. Tecumseh's father was mortally wounded in With his dying breath, he beseeched his firstborn line, and one day lead his younger brothers The news of Pukeshinwau's death devastated the last of his children. It was no less hard upon the boy himself. Fatherless at six years old, his family was That winter, his mother gave birth to triplets; Initially a useless layabout, the sickly boy life. A year later, the Thirteen Colonies declared plunging the region into war, and imposing As the Revolutionary war raged between patriot the fray on the side of the British Crown. Among them were the Shawnee, who sought to frontiersmen. This invoked the ire of the Americans, who Shawnee lands. Before long, a large band of Kentucky militia Still too young to fight, Tecumseh had fled bluffs, while the warriors of the village It was not the first time Tecumseh was forced his village burn, witnessing with his own Never again would Tecumseh sit idly by while In the years that followed, Tecumseh began had wanted him to be. His eldest brother Cheeseekau took full responsibility his dying father's last wish. Tecumseh was taught how to hunt, how to fight, When he entered adolescence, Cheeseekau blackened the woods to find his guardian spirit. Tecumseh fasted and meditated, and his spirit He never revealed to anyone what form his Tecumseh soon matured into a strong, intelligent Allegedly, he once slew sixteen bison with He also drew no small amount of attention The women of the Shawnee were very fond of attention, often brushing off their advances. Tecumseh's first taste of battle came in The young warrior confronted a host of Big Shawnee warriors at Mad River, Ohio. When the Americans fired a musket volley across panicked and ran. He had failed his first test as a warrior. He was disgusted with himself, and vowed never The following years saw Tecumseh come into in the shadow of his eldest brother. Continued conflict with the United States and hungry for expansion. Many tribes were resolved to do whatever was their land. In 1785 this tension evolved into a prolonged the Northwest Indian war. Rarely able to take on the US army head on, tactics. By 1788, Tecumseh and Cheeseekau were involved Initially camped on the Ohio River, the two raided the flatboats that traversed the busy These boats carried food, provisions and settlers, entering native land. During this turbulent period of his life, He was fighting alongside not just the Shawnee, He began to see himself as a native first, people would never be free of the yoke of one. He began to detest the idea that any one tribe consequences it brought upon other tribes. Tecumseh came to the revelation that land peoples, thus, he began to dream of a united shared indigenous identity. In 1791, an alliance of tribes formed to push Led by the Little Turtle of the Miami, and a force of 1,000 US Soldiers camped at the It is to this day the single greatest victory Tecumseh was not at the battle at the Wabash, and forth raiding that followed in its wake. In September of 1792, Tecumseh and Cheeseekau and launched an assault upon Buchanan Station From inside a stockaded blockhouse, twenty warriors. In this fateful battle, Cheeseekau was slain, porthole, while Tecumseh managed to retreat The loss of his older brother fell hard upon what his dying father had beseeched he do into a great warrior. Among many native groups, leadership was not by earning the respect of one's peers. In the years that followed Cheeseekau's renown, and began to accumulate a small warband By 1794, The Northwest Indian war was nearing Tecumseh and his warriors joined forces with forming a combined army of 1,300 men. Fighting alongside them was a British-led vested interest in undermining American influence Together, they faced an army of 2,000 American In what would later be known as the Battle by American gunfire, and attempted to retreat Miami. The British would not let them in, not willing Facing a massacre, the natives were forced The betrayal Tecumseh suffered at the hands The engagement at the Fallen Timbers ended States finally managed to impose their sovereignty Native leaders were compelled to sign the them to recognize large chunks of Ohio and Tecumseh was disgusted by this capitulation, Instead, he retreated with his followers to For the next ten years, Tecumseh bided his he could make his dream a reality, a dream That opportunity would arrive in 1805, when received a vision from the great spirit. The idler known as Lalawethika would transform a religious revival that would bring together By the turn of the 19th century, it was clear had not been sated. The Louisiana Purchase, which saw a massive United States, all but confirmed that further In the aftermath of their victory in the Northwest would settle in the newly established states of Indiana, land once dominated by Native Disunited and outnumbered, the Natives of Despite this, Tecumseh never gave up his grand As fate would have it, it would actually be would snowball into the creation of his great This man was "Lalawethika", meaning "he He had always been the black sheep of the like his brothers. A freak accident had taken out his eye when his youth as a perpetually drunk good-for-nothing. In the year 1805, everything changed. One day Lalawethika was smoking in his wigwam, fell into a trance. His stupor was so deep that those around him a changed man: Lalawethika told everyone that in which he had seen his people led onto a Great Spirit had sent him on a mission to He took on a new name, Tenskwatawa- "The In time, he became known to his people as The Prophet soon began spreading his teachings He preached that his people were the Great In contrast, the White people were children of the great waters. As such, natives bore an innate responsibility influence. To this endeavor, he denounced intermarriage commonplace in the last few decades. He spoke out against alcoholism and forbade He renounced European clothing, and other first contact, mandating his followers wear In the winter of 1805, a familiar calamity Native communities were once more afflicted crippled, or entirely depopulated. Disease had sadly become old news to the Natives their misfortune on "Witches", who supposedly malicious potions and spreading illness. Thus in the Spring of 1806, the Prophet became across the old northwest, a hunt he used to movement. Tenskwatawa hounded down all who denounced White Man. Under his watch, Christian Natives, and Chieftains tortured, and killed, all in the name of rooting The Prophet soon had a growing following not tribes as well. The growing unrest in the native northwest uneasy. One such man was William Henry Harrison, Governor He had fought in the Northwest Indian wars centered around resisting colonialism was Seeking to pacify the movement, Harrison denounced saying; "Who is this pretended prophet who Is he more wise or virtuous than you are yourselves, your god?" To affirm his spiritual powers, the Prophet He was correct. By accurately predicting a solar eclipse, of his followers. In 1808, the Prophet joined forces with Tecumseh. Together, the two brothers founded a village rivers. The Old Chieftain, Little Turtle, who had that he was settling on the lands of the Miami, was settling on Native lands. The brother's village came to be known as point for their pan-Native resistance movement. In the following years, peoples from all over drawn to Tenskwatawa's teachings and Tecumseh's The community grew quickly from a small village of Native American cultural and political In the end, it was Tecumseh who assumed the Tecumseh soon set out from Prophetstown, on Northwest that resistance, not assimilation, a confederacy that stretched across the American The Chieftain traveled from village to village, and legendary strength. Chieftains of the Ojibwe, Wyandots, Fox, Sauk, Onondaga and Delawares all joined his cause, But Tecumseh was not all honeyed words; he to any chiefs who collaborated with the Americans. Meanwhile, as more tribes joined Tecumseh's Prophetstown, which had evolved into the centre that provided a powerful buffer against white The rapid growth of Tecumseh's confederacy, existence within lands claimed by the United course with the Americans. The catalyst of this confrontation came in select chieftains of the Delaware, Potawatomi which ceded a 12,000 square km piece of land Government. This treaty infuriated Tecumseh, as it flew land belonged collectively to all natives. He saw it as theft, a plain and simple attempt been made poor by white settlers. In August of 1810, Tecumseh met with Harrison estate, and the two engaged in a heated parley. Tecumseh insisted that Native land could not by all the tribes acting as one, and that treaties still rightfully belonged to the Harrison replied that individual tribes were but Tecumseh's confederacy was not recognized, in their affairs. The back and forth debate inspired a passionate "Sell a country! Why not sell the air, the great sea, as well Did not the Great Spirit make them all for Tensions soon grew between the two parties. Harrison was quick to point out that the Shawnee so what right had they to dictate the affairs If the tribes were all one nation as Tecumseh them all speak one language? Tecumseh lost his temper, declaring that everything had cheated the Native peoples. He brandished his tomahawk at the governor, it at Tecumseh. A tense standoff ensued, but neither side Harrison brought the meeting to an end, and Tecumseh soon realized he had been wrong to the following day, this time at the Shawnee's This time, Tecumseh opted for a more diplomatic against Britain, if only they would renounce treaties. Harrison replied cordially, saying he would but did not expect the Natives' conditions To this, Tecumseh replied regretfully, "I He is so far off, he may sit still and drink it out." Harrison was impressed by the integrity of He remarked that "If it were not for the be the founder of an empire." In 1811, Tecumseh travelled southwards to The natives of that region were known to the due to their more positive predisposition Tecumseh's goal was to extend his alliance but he met fierce resistance in the south. The tribes there rejected his calls for unity abide by the treaties they had signed with This is exemplified in an exchange between Choctaws. Pushmataha stood firm against Tecumseh, delivering give us fair exchange, their cloth, their which the Choctaws need but do not make. It will be seen that the whites and Indians mutually beneficial terms." Tecumseh delivered a vehement reply. "Where today are the Pequot? Where are the Narragansett, the Mochican, our people? They have vanished before the avarice and longer, O Choctaws and Chickasaws ... Will their graves turned into plowed fields?" Unfortunately, his words fell on deaf ears, Nevertheless, Tecumseh did find limited success In September, he rode into the Muscogee town There, he delivered another impassioned speech against the White Man. Thousands of warriors raised their tomahawks silent. One story claims that Tecumseh stalked over march to Fort Detroit, stamp his foot unto to prove that he had been chosen by the Great Tecumseh then ventured back northwards, and Madrid Earthquake rocked the southern United shaken to its foundations. Many interpreted this as the coming of Tecumseh's' Henceforth a significant amount of Muscogees which became known as the Red Sticks. Meanwhile in Indiana, Governor Harrison was which was currently under the administration Harrison knew that Tecumseh was the main military made this the right time to strike. Harrison's goal was to conquer Prophetstown, confederacy and eliminating the threat of begin. Harrison sent the Prophet an ultimatum: All to be expelled from Prophetstown; all warriors citizens had to be surrendered; and all goods returned. These terms served to effectively disband were unilaterally rejected. On September 20th, 1811, Harrison marched Comprising this force were 325 army regulars, and the Indiana Territory. The militia was made up primarily of infantrymen, dragoons. The principal weapon used by this expeditionary Musket, a firearm capable of discharging three The army stopped at present day Terre Haute, Fort Harrison, which would be a staging point Within their town, the Prophet's warriors into tribal contingents of Winnebagoes, Kickapoos, about 125 men. Most of the Natives were armed with British tomahawks and war clubs. By November 6th, the Americans had advanced ridge around a thousand yards west of Prophetstown. Before he had headed south, Tecumseh had warned did not want open war before his confederacy Despite this, he was not present, and the for guidance. The Prophet had made overtures for peace that as Harrison could not accept any terms short dispersal of its inhabitants. Meanwhile, the Natives had become deeply uneased for confrontation. The most popular story claims the Winnebago demanded Tenskwatawa send them into battle. Thus, the Prophet sought a vision with the with a plan: to Assassinate Governor Harrison, them unable to fight. The Winnebagoes demanded that the attack had Thus, Tenskwatawa invoked his shamanic powers that the elimination of Harrison could be the American camp. Thus, at 4am on the morning of November 7th, been given the blessing of their Prophet. They advanced upon the American Camp in a The right horn was made up of Kickapoos, led led by Chief Waweapakoosa, and the center Wabaunsee. The plan was to have the Kickapoos infiltrate Harrison under cover of darkness, at which Warriors and massacre the US Soldiers. This would not come to pass, for Harrison underestimate his Native foes. Remembering all too well how 1,000 U.S Soldiers back in 1791, he had ordered the tents in and for his men to sleep on top of their muskets, affixed. The Kickapoos reached the American Camp ahead on the flats of their stomachs. At around 4:30 AM, they encountered an advance being killed. The crack of the rifle caused the Americans awoken by 5:30, by which point the Kickapoos At precisely 5:50, one Corporal Stephen Mars warrior and shoot him dead. The presence of the natives was now known, entire American stockade was alerted. Realizing that an assassination of Harrison weapons, and charged, beginning the battle For roughly fifteen minutes, the Kickapoos state of chaos, killing a handful of soldiers Kentucky Riflemen to retreat deeper into their However, Harrisons foresight had paid off, were alerted and had been assembled into battle It was around this time that the rest of the the Potawatomis launching an assault on the The battle had devolved into a slugfest, a in this, the Natives were outmatched. As the hour progressed, the tides began to A company under one Captain Snelling had driven and assaulted the northern center, causing and fall back, only to have Snelling's contingent advance. Meanwhile, the Winnebagoes struck from the the companies of Captain Spencer and Warrick. This too was futile, as Robb's reformed and drive off their enemy. By 7AM, the sun was beginning to rise, and two to one. Heavily demoralized, they began retreating Here, the Americans launched a counterattack, an attack, they encircled and charged the the warriors made it back behind the fortifications Upon their return, many warriors were outraged the Great Spirit had ensured him of victory. The powerful shaman was called out for being and deserted Prophetstown. Tenskwatawa made desperate pleas to have them The next morning, the American troops marched and burned it to the ground. The prophet, who had laid the groundwork of all his influence. The town that served as the heart of Native This was a harsh blow to the Native resistance, Tecumseh himself still had power, for chieftains In the face of this setback, he was forced threat, the British Empire. On June 17th, 1812, The United States Senate with Great Britain. This war had been a long time coming. As a certain Napoleon Bonaparte had been conquering upon U.S. sovereignty, embargoing American sailors off American ships to supplement the But these were not the real causes of the For decades, the British Empire had been empowering American expansion. Indeed, most of the muskets used by Tecumseh's For the Warhawks in Washington, this provided expansion, first by annexing British Canada, the Native tribes on their western frontier. One of the main obstacles preventing American Tecumseh had never stopped preparing for war. He had no love for the British, but realized that the reconquest of Native lands annexed pan-Tribal Native state, was possible. To this end, he mobilized his warriors for It was the general consensus that if the United territory would fall quickly. The ongoing war with Napoleon kept the majority Canadian Colonials were unlikely to be willing On July the 12th, 1812, the United States William Hull marched across into old Sandwich without a fight. He offered peace to the locals should they alongside the British or their native allies, stroke of the Tomahawk, the first attempt for one indiscriminate scene of desolation. No white man found fighting by the side of Instant destruction will be his lot." However, Hull proved to be an ineffective The main British garrison in the region was to strike, instead holding position in Sandwich across the Detroit river. On July 17th, 700 native warriors of the Great the shores of the Huron to join the British The local British Commander had only 50 redcoats allies, he swooped down into Michigan, and Unaware that the war had been declared, the As Tecumseh's warriors took arms, the Great the fray. At Brownstown Creek, he fell fiercely upon them with only 25 warriors at his side. Following this string of humiliating defeats, retreated back into American territory to little to nothing. Back in Washington, Thomas Jefferson famously this year will be a mere matter of marching", Tecumseh and his natives had delivered the the inspiration for the local Canadians to But in truth, the war had just begun; there be realized. It was at this point that the Shawnee Chieftain's Major-General Isaac Brock was a career soldier, In 1802, he was appointed a station in lower the Colonial army. Modern Canadians consider him a national hero, In comparison with the Napoleonic War, Canada Nevertheless, Brock did his duty well. He reformed the Provincial militia and bolstered A few months before the war's outbreak, Despite his personal desires, he refused, against the invasion he knew was soon to come. On the night of August 13th, 1812, Brock arrived by way of lake Erie. Tecumseh was there waiting for him, and the Both had heard of the other's deeds, and Brock could not defend Canada without Tecumseh's lands without British support. The two leaders soon met face to face, and They agreed that only through a quick and war. To that end, they resolved to attack Fort forces in the Northwest were stationed. It was risky, since the allies knew they would Most of Brock's officers were against it, Tecumseh was impressed by his new partner's A more sagacious and a more gallant Warrior On the morning of the 15th of August, an allied made camp in Sandwich town, opposite the river Major-General Brock commanded a force about numbered around 600. Meanwhile, General Hull had 2,500 men garrisoned number of his opponent. Brock wrote a letter to his American adversary, "It is far from my inclination to join in that the numerous body of Indians who have my control the moment the contest commences." In truth, Tecumseh was no butcher, and in captured intelligence, he and Brock both knew warriors, and that the fear of a savage massacre Yet still, no surrender came. The following night, Brock began to ferry The British opened fire with their three heavy Hull ordered his 24-pounders to return fire. Neither side managed to inflict much damage 16th, a cannon ball struck the Fort's mess Upon crossing the river, Brock organized his walls, boldly placing himself at the front An officer pleaded that he not expose himself follow me from a feeling of personal regard. I will not ask them to go where I will not When news arrived that a force of 400 Ohio doubled down and marched his troops to the Meanwhile, Tecumseh and his warriors had quietly filtering his men into a forest within view Ingeniously, he paraded his men in circles, in the tree line within view of the Americans, This created the illusion that there were there actually were, and made the weight of By now, General Hull had been psychologically he sat in a muted daze, saliva and tobacco Within his fort there were women and children, The man had never had the will of a soldier, broken him. After only a few hours of siege, the gates a white flag. Fort Detroit had surrendered. It was a stunning defeat for the Americans. The largest garrison in the northern United 2493 soldiers were taken captive by a force Tecumseh had done his part, and delivered Now it was time for his Imperial allies to and help him establish a homeland for his Unfortunately for him, this would never come The United States was determined to avenge an offensive upon Queenston Heights, managing This provoked Brock to rally a force of militiamen to once more drive the Americans from Canadian It was in this engagement where the Major-General He charged up the heights with his men, wearing This made him a conspicuous target, and as the chest. 300 Mohawk warriors jumped into the fray, British reinforcements arrived. Queenston was retaken, and nearly 1,000 Americans Despite this, with Brock dead, the Native ally. Meanwhile, an old foe of Tecumseh had come the northwest: none other than William Henry Unlike his predecessor Hull, Harrison was His first act was to construct a bastion along From here, he planned to strike upwards and Meanwhile, the Governor-General of Canada Procter to lead the British army due to Isaac Procter and Tecumseh went on the southwards In January of 1813, the Native-British forces Kentucky riflemen sallying north from Fort They clashed on a battlefield outside the For once, the Americans were outnumbered, Nearly 500 Kentuckians were killed in the of any battle in the war, and yet another The American prisoners were put on a forced Native warriors began taking liberties with and cutting down any who would not keep pace Tecumseh himself had left before the battle's He abhorred needless death, so when he caught Confronting Proctor, he demanded to know why to which Proctor snidely replied that Tecumseh's At this, the Chieftain replied temprously: You are unfit to command! Go and put on petticoats!" From there, cracks continued to form in Tecumseh's With Brock, the chieftain had built a strong who refused to fight the war on the Native's Meanwhile, the Americans would remember the would become martyrs, and the event became Sure enough, the tides began to turn. In the Spring of 1813, Tecumseh convinced assault upon Fort Meigs. Twice, a force of 1200 natives and 900 British Harrison managed to repel them, despite suffering As more Americans fell into British captivity prevent massacres he much as he could. It is because of this that many Americans a noble foe. The failing relationship between Tecumseh the United States won a decisive naval engagement The battle of Put-In-Bay put the entirety British supply lines, forcing them to abandon all the victories won by Tecumseh and Brock With winter looming, General Procter retreated would not pursue him through the winter snows. This enraged Tecumseh, for the Shawnee chieftain He felt betrayed. After all, he had delivered the British several aid in return for his. As it turned out, Procter's gamble was incorrect. Harrison was all too willing to risk a winter After retaking Fort Detroit, the American forces. Still, Procter continued to withdraw, much that his unreliable ally could not be further Brock. Reluctantly, the Shawnee took his warriors But soon he had had enough. Realizing there was no end to Procter's and put his foot in the earth, issuing him further, or the alliance between them and In declaring this, Tecumseh had said choice lives are in the hands of the Great Spirit. We are determined to defend our lands, and upon them." With his hand being forced, Procter agreed He chose to make his stand on the banks of a village of Christian Delawares. Procter's 900 men lined themselves in rows Exhausted and starving from their forced march, Tecumseh stationed his warriors in a black would have ample cover, and could flank the The emboldened Grand Chieftain personally rejoining his men. Before long, the Americans were in sight. Harrison's force was imposing, nearly 4,000 of the British and Natives combined. Procter had made no attempt to build earthworks him and the Americans remained entirely uncontested. Harrison knew that the best way to break his like he had done at Prophetstown two years The American general kept the bulk of his a center column of mounted Kentucky riflemen Tecumseh and his warriors opened fire from from thundering into their Redcoat allies. This devastating charge broke the British Gripped by panic, they broke formation and through disorganized and scattered gunfire. General Procter fled the field with 250 of were either captured or cut down. When Tecumseh was young, he had taken an oath: Even now, with his allies abandoning him, he would uphold that oath. Entrenched deep in the swamps, the Natives Harrison ordered his Kentucky cavalrymen to was cut down by a fusillade of Native gunfire. From there, the battle devolved into a drawn amidst the cover of the swampy thicket. It is here, in a battlefield of smoky air ends. As the chaotic shootout continued, an American proud Shawnee Chieftain, and shoot him through Tecumseh was killed immediately upon the impact. It didn't take long for news of Tecumseh's Deeply demoralized by this, and afeard by them, they fled the battlefield and scattered. The Battle of the Thames was a decisive victory the Great Native Coalition. Tecumseh had been the glue that bound them as much respect from so many diverse tribes. After the engagement at Moraviantown, many Harrison and returned to their homes, beholden There would be no more united Native front, nation on North American soil. The confederacy that Tecumseh had spent so with his death. The war of 1812 would rage on for another Native Warriors no longer played a major role. Both British and American armies scored later of Washington, and the Americans winning an The war ended in stalemate; the British had the Americans had asserted their sovereignty. Canada would not be annexed, and America would interests imposed upon. In the end, the only true losers of the war continent. During peace talks, the British had originally only to create a buffer state to block further Naturally, the Americans outright denied this Realizing they did not have the leverage to abandoned the notion. When the treaty of Ghent was signed in December tide of American westward expansion, and expand Without a strong leader like Tecumseh to bind continent were largely helpless to combat lands. The Red Stick Muskogees who had declared for Americans in the deep south. But they too were eventually defeated by future-President bend. In the end, the story of Tecumseh is a tragic A man of remarkable charisma, integrity, bravery for independence and unity, only to have it Even his greatest foe in William Henry Harrison makings of an Emperor, and it is easy to wonder he had lived a little longer. Nevertheless, Tecumseh's memory is alive To the Americans, he was a noble opponent. To Canadians, the saviour of their nation. But to the indigenous peoples of North America, an icon of resistance. We always have more stories to tell, so make pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and