(rock music) - [Narrator] Most Black as the last iconic record Though it contains many of of their prior album in terms of arrangement it is a decidedly heavier affair This time around the the arrangements a bit heavier approach for what in exactly as many years. Sabotage will be recorded in Willesden North London in and issued later that by guitarist, Tony Iommi (rock music) Before arriving at Morgan Studio, writing and rehearsal and at lead singer Ozzy Osbourne's house. Though hampered by legal battles, the band persevered and created arguably one of the best records and maybe the first I wanna tell you yeah Ironically, to tell Sabotage's tale, we have to first discuss were sabotage by management. The main characters are Jim Simpson, a club promoter in Sabbath's and the band's first real manager. Patrick Meehan, an up and coming manager and the son of Patrick Meehan Sr., who was a more established manager. Wilf Pine, a local henchman and Don Arden, heavyweight manager, current employer of Pine and former employer of Meehan's father. At June 1970, Sabbath's first album is on the British music charts and soon they'll be following it up with their second album, Paranoid. By most indicators, but current manager, Jim Simpson wasn't getting them paid for In particular, a band called Black Widow managed by Patrick Meehan Jr. was getting double what even though Widow was not Before Sabbath's debut album had exploded, Simpson had booked concerts and would not cancel or renegotiate the originally agreed upon price. Iommi said, &quot;It was getting silly. Even the people who ran the 'You should be getting more than this. What are you doing playing here?'&quot; Knowing of Sabbath's and their unhappiness with the Don Arden decided to make a Known as the Godfather Arden started out doing standup comedy and was particularly known for In the 60s, he went on to and later the Small Faces. Around this time, Arden a small group of well muscled to see things his way. One example of his license to took place back before when Jimmy Page and Keith Moon were putting together a band. Page and Moon reached out Steve Marriott, to see if The minute Marriott's he sent Page a very clear message. &quot;How would you like to play in Marriott stayed with the Small Faces and Page went on with his fingers intact. Smoke it In 1970, Arden put his plan into motion and sent his right-hand man, Wilf Pine to pick up the band and bring During the meeting, Arden but came on too strong when he asked them to sign with his label Iommi said about the meeting, &quot;We just couldn't do that. So we came away thinking, 'Oh God, what are we gonna do now? He'll probably have us killed.' He kept getting in touch with us, arranging to take us out to dinner and all that sort of Then one day, Wilf got &quot;I've got another guy This other guy was Patrick Meehan, Jr. and after meeting with him, Tony said, &quot;He seemed and said things that we wanted to hear. He just had the right way So they ended up signing and Wilf Pine and their A little over 13 months later, Pine would drop out of the partnership and move on to other things. It should be noted that of why Black Sabbath did not In the book, &quot;One of the Family, The Englishman and The Mafia&quot;, it states that Black Sabbath and taking a piss on Black After the band heard this, they did not want According to Pine, it and Arden did not make fun of the band. (rock music) Two weeks before their second Jim Simpson received a lawyer's letter informing him that he no longer nor was he allowed to contact Jim wasn't the only one put When Don Arden, who was still on the group found out it that have plotted behind his he was furious. Issuing threats of retribution, he also offered financial who he encouraged to sue for damages. Simpson did and was later breaking down to 7,500 and 27,500 pounds from Meehan. With Meehan at the helm, Black Sabbath became a The three albums that followed Paranoid, Master of Reality in and Sabbath Bloody Sabbath in 1973, all hit the UK top 10 and the US top 20. By 1974, the band had all the country houses, flashy cars, and unlimited amounts of drugs. (coughing noises) But after four years and at and recording, the band and everything came to a head during a gig at the Hollywood Bowl where Tony Iommi collapsed. Ozzy said about the incident, &quot;Tony had been doing coke but Tony had gone over the edge. He walked off the stage and collapsed.&quot; It was not Tony's day. Earlier that same day a crazed man tried to the religious zealot and Tony was not harmed. But as basist Geezer Butler says, &quot;We wanted to take a break So the rest of the gigs for (rock music) The following year, 1973, the band embarked on a tour that would take them through February 1974 for the US leg of the tour. Just when they thought they before the UK and management call to tell the to play at one of the largest the California Jam, Geezer said, &quot;We were in from the tour when our and said we had to go back We said no, but we were - [Emcee] This act is just for this concert. A warm United States (audience applause) - [Narrator] This was just one of the ways Sabbath was getting Also during this period and Patrick Meehan had of the royalties to himself Even though Black Sabbath played the 1974 California Jam festival and received a generous for the performance, the band members were paid for their efforts. - We love you all. (audience cheers) - [Narrator] Osbourne complained, &quot;Patrick Meehan never when you asked him how Butler said it more bluntly, &quot;We felt we were being ripped off.&quot; For Iommi, the situation with Patrick had already become unworkable began to question his business dealings. &quot;We could never find him Iommi recalled, &quot;It was a nightmare and eventually I was left with no option, but to walk away and try (rock music) The band had long suspected but they had been too to directly question how their Despite their aggressive music genre, these masters in reality As it learned over the summer of 1974, the reality was that they over what happened next. &quot;It was like, the more you found out, the less you wanted to It was horrible. Sabbath had been snared the same way countless other acts had in The band spent a fortunate legal fees only to discover that in effect, they had no real money of their own, the cars they drove, the all were owned on paper by Patrick Meehan and their management company. Most excruciating of all and they didn't even own their own music. &quot;That's why we called the said Geezer. &quot;We were a potless, absolutely broke. If the band had finished there, we would have been totally destitute.&quot; (rock music) So the band broke it off with Meehan and tried their hand at Drummer Bill Ward stepped up but soon realized he didn't His alcoholism didn't help. For a while, there was no manager, instead various close friends worked together to take but none had everything it took to be the actual manager of the band. Ironically, a couple of years later, there would be savior turned out to be one of the most infamous gangster Don Arden, the guy who into signing with him in 1970, which by the way, Arden would eventually become Ozzy's future father-in-law. Even with the formidable figure the fallout with Meehan will over Sabbath throughout the For instance, Meehan and their back catalog, but from a string of compilation albums of Sabbath's most recognizable material. After years of litigation the band was eventually forced to seek an out of court settlement. They agreed to pay an undisclosed amount for breaking their contracts with Meehan, but more costly, Sabbath also to the music released while most of the best work Meanwhile, due to personality the band was beginning to fracture. Already deep into alcoholism Bill Ward suffered a case of hepatitis and a At the same time, Ozzy became increasingly due to musical differences As many times before, guitarist Tony Iommi took the lead in writing Hole In The Sky, begins set at a maximum volume and Some people believe the word (rock music) This scream was an in-joke delivered by producer, Mike Butcher. Sabbath had a supporting who would stand behind them on the stage, shouting, &quot;Attack, attack&quot; said Butcher, &quot;So that's what I shouted Hole in the Sky is a dense, where you can hear how Tony's guitar tone had gotten even larger as it loomed over the surging while Ozzy was forced into It begins to become clear that Sabotage would mark the finest vocal The sheer anger of the music is emphasized by its abrupt look twice ending, segwaying instantly into what appears to be one of Tony's Following Hole in the Sky is the 49-second acoustic instrumental, Don't Start Too Late, and was inspired by tape operator, David Harris's exasperations with the band plowing into their takes before he'd gotten himself prepared. So that's David's saying, &quot;Don't start.&quot; And the band chuckling, &quot;Too late.&quot; The piece is essentially modern classical, but it's a good example of how Sabbath liked a little before the hulking monster (rock music) Wreck in the village is the supercharged Symptom of the Universe. From Iommi's (indistinct) riff towards craze drum fill, the entire band is on the attack. Not until Judas Priest Sin with a heavy metal sound And in retrospect, you the entire new wave of British Closing out side one is which is the longest self Megalomania, which is a structurally than anything else before. Highlights include Iommi's Ozzy growling out &quot;Sting and Bill Ward's brilliant to count off another rhythm change. The song is about suffering and delusions. It is in fact an actual A megalomaniac is a pathological egotist with symptoms like delusions of grandeur and an obsession with power. The song Megalomania is somewhat and exhausting all at the same time, and definitely an ambitious piece of work. Leading off side two is and vastly underrated The song has a well-used handclap element years before John As well as some of Ozzy's most expressive, upbeat and heartfelt vocals. Lyrically, there are some all couched in religion as wonders why the world Won't you help me Mr. Jesus Won't you tell me if you can When you see this world we live in Do you still believe in man Geezer got the title of the at the time. The Thrill of it All was not sabotaged by management alone, tape operator, David the original master of the song and the band had to rerecord it. Rather than get all upset about it, the guys credited him on and saboteur, David Harris. (rock music) The next song on the album, Supertzar, which initially had the working title of we sell the worst chips in the country would become the band's for years to come. Tony wrote it in the with him playing guitar and his wife Sue on the orchestral harp, and then later created the It's transformed on the album to a song vaguely reminiscent of the Still I'm Sad. Take a listen and see if you agree. When it came time to record, Tony booked the English chamber choir. Not knowing anything about this, Ozzy walked into the studio, saw all these people and walked out again, thinking he'd gone into the wrong studio. Also during the songs creation, Bill Ward had a mild heart attack and needed to take a The 7th track from Sabotage is the uneven and somewhat unpopular fan wise tune, Am I going Insane Radio. Ozzy originally constructed this song from a solo album he between Sabbath Bloody When that idea was scrapped, he brought this tune into Concerning his aborted Ozzy later confessed, &quot;I to the rest of the band the success and recognition.&quot; Some people assume the radio notation is due to it being a Radio in the title is Cockney slang referencing a Birmingham Instead of mental, a local and eventually the phrase The song ends with some voiced by a band friend and then some bizarre hysterical crying from what sounds like a mental patient. According to Bill Ward, the crying came from a tape played at half speed, but engineer Mike Butcher from an unidentified No one knows for sure. The Writ is probably the most formidable and biting song of the classic lineup era. It's also Sabbath at The lyrics were written mostly by Ozzy, as opposed to usually and pertain to the lawsuit Patrick Meehan, that was plaguing the band during the recording of Sabotage. The way I feel is the way I am I wish I'd walked To you Delivering the songs spitting Ozzy's sounds particularly especially in this section of the song where he starts off by taking shots at Patrick Meehan and his father. A poisoned father who That's you Yeah that's you I beg you please don't The anger I once had On you Yeah curse you All of the promises You're gonna get what is coming to you That's true Ah that's true Are you Satan Are you man You've changed in life since it began The title The Writ was by engineer co-producer, Mike Butcher after one of the manager's lawyers had delivered a writ to the A writ is an order issued with administrative or judicial Ironically, the same year fellow Brit band Queen about their former manager. You will find the same from Freddie Mercury on You suck my blood like a leech You break the law and you breach Screw my brain till it hurts You've taken all my money And you want more Misguided old mule With your pigheaded rules With your narrow minded cronies Who are fools Of the first division Death on two legs For all the vitriol and the writ, there was a note of hope and But everything is gonna work out fine And the short-term, at least Patrick Meehan would In the spring of 1975, a month after recording Mike Butcher flew to New and mastering of Sabotage. And it was there that the producer added at the end of The Writ a he had recorded without &quot;Microphones were plugged Butcher explain. &quot;So one night when Ozzy and Bill were messing around the piano, Blow on a jug Everybody come on Blow on a jug What he captured was a joke &quot;This stupid fucking thing,&quot; said Ward, &quot;A drunken song that Ozzy in a van or on a plane. That's me on the piano and Ozzy blowing on one of those brown cider Ward insisted he had no would end up on the album. Originally, it only The rumor that the Nitty Gritty band originally played the song The real story comes Sabbath played in 1970, At the time, Sabbath saw these and who would win over the crowd. During one performance, Mungo and the crowd went wild. &quot;He was playing fucking jugs and he stole the day.&quot; Ozzy said. After Mungo Jerry, we didn't have a hope blowing on fucking jugs. Just as the Beatles followed of Abbey Road, the lighthearted Her Majesty, so Sabbath with a similar tribute, only theirs is the Mungo Jerry. Now with all the music recorded, the band need to create an album cover. Sabotage was the first album to display the group on its front cover. The original idea for the records Artwork was based on a famous painting Rene Magritte, named Not to be Reproduced. A man in a dark suit is The reflection in the not his front. In essence, his image has been sabotage. The concept was conceived by Bill Ward and his drum roadie Graham Wright, and executed and overseen by the Amsterdam design company, Cream also known as the Cream Group. (rock music) Originally, the idea from a Dracula castle type thing. Sabbath was going to be in front of full length and the reflected image like Magritte's. The job of making all this happen, fell to the record company Vertigo, which announced the photo Instead of an old castle, the photo session would take place in a small photography studio in Soho. The band showed up thinking to talk about the album In fact, Ozzy showed up in a as he would later describe his appearance. Bill wore his wife's revealing red tights, but he never wore underwear. Ward said at the shoot, &quot;I that were really dirty, so And so that my bollocks wouldn't I also borrowed Ozzy's We think we found some proof that Mr. Ward is telling the truth. If you take a look at the back you can see Bill Ward's Now look at this picture you'd be the judge. Thinking they would superimpose they rushed through the photo shoot, and the outcome was far from Ironically, once again, the sleeve design was the idea of Sabotage, but had instead become a By the time the band it was too late to change the cover. They hated it. What we are left with to be simultaneously embarrassing (rock music) Upon release in late 1975, You had fans and critics including RollingStone who wrote, &quot;Sabotage is not since Paranoid, it might But the sales of the album Sabotage was the first Black Sabbath album that did not achieve and though it reached it completely fell off the To date, Sabotage is still having only sold 900,000 copies, but the album has sold over ranking it the 7th - [Ozzy] The album's called Sabotage. And then it's titled (rock music) - [Narrator] Behind the scenes, Just as Sabbath felt they had they found themselves in after their former managers struck another blow, authorizing the release in December of a double album compilation entitled, We Sold Our Souls for Rock and Roll featuring all their biggest hitters from the first five albums. The double album was released to coincide with a Christmas present buying season and Sabbath didn't know Worse, the band members from this marketing scheme. In some respects, Sabotage with no real identity or a unifying theme, yet as good as the album is, it's also an album where are starting to come off of this. This will become far more evident in Black Sabbath's next release where the band not only lost the wheels, but the whole car fell apart. That album, Bill Ward says, &quot;It was so hard for us making it, but when I listened back to it now, God, it's incredible.&quot; - [Ozzy] We just had to and myself, you are a good bunch of people and we love each and every one of you. (audience cheers) We love you all.