What's this? Oh, it's only the Vaping is kind of amazing - finally delivers one of the most popular It may improve your attention, concentration, memory, reaction time and endurance. It you relax and enhance your mood. Nicotine also or lose weight. And it is simply fun to put Compared to other stimulants, at the same high price for our bodies. It way less harmful than smoking. Smoking delivers, well, hot smoke and extremely toxic particles all over your body right away. But we will Ok sure, nicotine is one of the know. But vaping on its own seems kinda Well, we should find out quickly. While in the especially among teens vaping has become a children have tried vaping at least once. In regularly. One in four of them do it daily, So how does vaping work and How does Vaping work? A vape is basically a small tank of liquid, The major ingredient in most vape the main chemicals in smoke machines, which From food like candy and baking mixes, to are the nicotine salts containing the magic When you pull on a vape, the metal coil heats up Vapor sounds kind of nice, harmless and pleasant. mist of aerosol. A warm sticky substance particles mixed with air. The best thing to When you take a hit, billions of aerosol making you taste pleasant stuff, and enter little air sacs where the breathing into your bloodstream and is transported into And here the complications begin. What is actually in your vape? The scary answer is that we don't really know. Studies found that vape liquids can be many dozens of substances. The majority were almost unbelievable, but the vaping industry We know that many official substances They're used in cosmetics, medicine or Most are safe to eat or put on your skin. But Cinnamaldehyde, found in cinnamon oil, kills Benzaldehyde found in almonds or apples has a chocolate or mint flavoured vapes. As a What is worse is that we don't know what many The longer you inhale and the hotter the coil Molecules merge or break down, creating When propylene glycol and they decompose and turn into harmful liquid runs out or the coil gets too hot. You will taste weird or burned - if this And it gets worse. When the metal coil is Studies found aluminium, boron, calcium, nickel, and manganese in the vapor - all of up toxic and can cause lung irritation, breath in the short term. Nickel can All of these mystery substances in new and exciting ways. In What do we know about the What Does Vaping DO in Your Body? The elephant in the room is that we don't know been around for about ten years. Also, most on smokers who switched to vapes. We do know for harmful. Switching to vaping will reduce your please switch to vaping. But these What if you never smoked and started to vape? In develop poor breathing symptoms: coughing, wheezing, throat and chest pain. But the happen in the long term. The first larger only started in 2024 - it will take years We can make careful assumptions Your lungs are made from very sensitive tissue aerosols, chemicals and metals. What goes into which is why smokers' lungs are dark and dirty. It seems that vaping activates the immune This causes inflammation and fluid seeps their entry produce extra mucus you have Vaping also may cause stress all over your body: it may increase your heart rate and blood and clog up your blood vessels. It may create effects on your organs and may potentially Does this increase your risk of strokes, heart we don't know. Maybe it causes damage, but does. Maybe it will make you sick. We are conducting one of the largest If you are vaping you're a test subject. Too Much of the Wonder Drug What is new about vaping is the sheer your system. For most people it is kind of smoking is pretty harsh. As vaping is you can do it inside and constantly, for hours. They shower your brain in which makes them extremely addictive. For teens this may be very bad. During your your nicotine receptors are especially your reward system and thus, how you Nicotine may change brain development by Again, the science is pretty Nicotine in teens has been hyperactivity, reduced impulse control, and mood disorders. But there is a chicken or are people with a tendency for emotional There have been studies that suggest nicotine develop other addictions. But this has been are generally more likely to take risks, tend to get addicted to smoking, alcohol or cannabis, any less addictive, it just means that it is Where the science is pretty solid, is quitting nicotine. Nicotine is one of and comes with a wide range of really You can be on edge and experience unpleasant mood swings and anxiety. fatigue and headaches and trouble concentrating. with stress. And it can make depression appetite comes back and since some people All of this makes quitting nicotine extremely that can be intense, since vaping The good news is that these symptoms are hours for the nicotine to leave your body out or stop entirely in a few weeks. Conclusion The problem with vaping is that it is and stimulating. But it also supercharges Every smoker who switches from cigarettes this is where the benefits end. Vaping has the younger generations to nicotine It is kind of unfair to expect young people about how bad it is or might be. Scaring people to nicotine, you use it to fight stress. And if thing they use to fight stress is bad, they do the Basically, humans developed a new way to make one decline, attractive to millions of teens by making new - and we still have a chance to curb this new Making decisions that affect your health them on rational ground if you don't Algorithms are constantly working behind the and alarmist headlines get amplified over the sponsor of this video, can give you back connection to them: our founder Philipp was a few years back and decided to read all front to back every day. He was shocked and all the stories each side decided not to In a nutshell, the app and website gather can compare coverage, see the bigger For example, recently a study was released never smoked started vaping." Ground News gives sources, a small number in comparison to authorization of vaping products three years ago, This way you can compare different perspectives in and also reference the original story study to of the bigger picture and how much weight a story Go to ground.news/nutshell to give it get 50% off the unlimited access plan, the biggest gift. We think they do an important job - you at least take control over The new 12,025 Human Era Calendar is finally here! and we created it all for you. It's not just the the shiny cover. It's the fact that it represents We hope that you will use it to know that it will look great on your wall or As you've told us in hundreds of the calendar is very special to you too! Calendar has become a yearly tradition Make 12,025 truly special and join us in The calendar is available exclusively on our shop. We've also prepared a few bundles Get this piece of our shared history