This will be a completely free will start with absolutely nothing you will have a complete project Now, if you would like to download the project files to make it easier I'm going to be leaving a link for that up in the description of this video where you can sign up for this And you will get access to all of You can also watch the course there, because while you have the lessons that just doesn't work here on YouTube. This project is just the first project to intermediate level course that's But more on that So now, without any further ado, This video is going to be a quick start when it comes to Revit So here I have Revit opened up. So depending on which version you have But overall they all look the same. And yeah so I have Revit opened up. And then I'm just going to open up this project, one But I just want to open it up So I'm just going to click here on open. And then I'm going to find it Select the file and then click on open. Now that this project file is available So you just scroll down, select open it up And once I have it opened up I'm So here on the Quick Access toolbar And I'm just going to click on that Now in case you don't have it here, Or alternatively, if you don't see it and then click on the default 3D view. Now that brings us So Revit interface which includes So it's divided into tabs. So here we have the architecture tab. And then it has all of the ballots So here And there we have And then we have basically the same thing On structure tab we have structure tools. On the steel tab Now you're going to be starting Or you can use the shortcuts. So for example in Revit here WA in parentheses. When I hover over that that means that WA So if I just type in WA, And now I can place some walls. So you can use the shortcuts. Or you can just click on the tool In AutoCAD you type in the shortcut And Revit You just type in the shortcut. And it's going to start that tool. Moving forward we also have the properties So these are two panels that are You can see them over here Now depending on your setup the project So some people work like this. Others work with that original layout. So you basically click here on the name And then you can place it so you can have them side by side Or I can move it underneath like that. So as you can see, I don't want it I just want it down here Just like this. Now in some cases and then you may close both of these So if you do that you don't have those, And then on the view tab we have You open that up. And here And then you also So they're just going to appear like that. So basically that's your place where you can see all of the properties So the properties panel, when you select I've selected, the roof and then it says, It's on level three If I select the wall And then we have the top constraint base What type of wall it is. What's the area of the wall? Length of the wall. Volume of the wall So you can select So just hover over it. You click and then it's going to show you Now the project browser is while through all of the views in your project You can see you have your floor plans. Then you have the ceiling plans. They're all in the nodes And then when you click on any one of So basically I can open up a 3D view. I can open up an elevation. Also I can collapse all of these creating even the legends And down below. Here you have all of the families we're not going to be talking about that Let's go now to this main area So this is your main working area. And it also works with tabs. So here are all of the views are going to appear here on these tabs. Now at any point you can close down And now they're not deleted or anything. They're still here in the project browser. You just don't want to clog this up. just the main views You open them up and then the ones And then you can switch in between these. And we also have the option to tile views, which just opens up to views side by side. So that's on the view tab here in windows We can also click on Tab views which is Now let's talk about navigation. So for navigating in Revit where you scroll away from yourself and towards yourself to zoom out So where your mouse is So if I hover over this area and zoom, And then if I move the cursor here it's going to zoom in to that window. So just place your cursor zoom towards there. If you click on the scroll wheel and move, So you can just pan around mount You can pan all using the scroll wheel. Now you can also orbit. This is really important So you hold your shift key. You click on the scroll wheel Now in this case where you hold What matters is what you have selected So for example, if I select this window when I orbit, it's Now if I deselect it again it's Now if I select the roof around the roof So now if I move around now, as you can If I select the floor It may sound weird at first, in Revit for 10 to 20 minutes, Finally, let's mention the selection they have already shown you. You hover over something it's And then you click deselect. So if it's only highlighted you have to click on your left And then yeah, it's whatever you have Now also you have the ability that's perhaps And then when you hit the tab key on your keyboard, it's So now if I click, as you can see Here we have actually six walls So you can use the tab key in order to select a chain of walls in Revit. You can also use the tab key So if I hover here over this door, well, when you have a lot of elements So here we have this door, We have the curtain wall mullion We have the curtain wall grid. There is a lot of elements So if I want to select the door here well now if it's selected the entire wall So what you can do is and then use the tab key So see how it's toggling between the wall. The grids, the, the Malians, So now when I click it's So you can just use the tab key So it's going to toggle between If I hover over this. So now as you can see it's toggling that's nearby my cursor. So you can use the tab key in order and then make selections. Finally, when it comes to selecting, at once So let's actually switch to level one. You can also find it here level one. And now in level one, multiple items, And as long as I'm dragging towards it's going to show you So what the dashed line means what the dashed rectangle means is going to be selected. So see here how when I touch those sofas, When they touch the table it's So basically anything When you release your left mouse click. Just like that. Now if I click and drag towards the right see I'm touching things with the rectangle However, if I encompass something and this as well. So basically when you go to the right it's And that means that you have or to completely encompass something So now when I release only these items by that rectangle have been select it. So that's how multiple So those were some of the basics. Now you have the basic idea How the Revit interface So now without any further ado, In this video we're going to get started I'm going to be showing you And then we're going to set the levels. And that's going to complete So as you can see here I am in Revit. This is the home screen. Now if you're using a different version If you're using a different version perhaps a different recent files But overall the approach for starting So to start in your project and then go to new. Once you click on the new button to get this prompt for a new project. And here Now a template file Either to complete the whole project Now, by default, In this drop menu, you can see in this case I have Imperial However, because I have actually prepared That's going to make it easier because it's going to include everything Now this template is available for download, So scroll down a little bit and you can download the files package Now I'm going to hit here browse. So the browse button opens up the choose And here you can navigate to wherever In this case I have saved it on my desktop And here it is. Project one template metric 2024. So basically and I prefer to use metric units. That's why I'm using this template now or if you're using Revit 2021 or some other version, In this case So just click on it to select it. And then you hit open. That's going to place that template here. And then to finalize you want to make sure that here on the And then we can just hit okay. And that's going to start a new project. Now once we have a new project started I know which which levels and elevations In this case I know. So let's set them up. So to set up levels you need to go So you need to go either to a section to place levels and to set them up. So I'm going to go here to the project It's this menu over here you want to Now in case expand it and then you can pick out I'm just going to double click on the south elevation, The south elevation. Now here by default And that's perfectly fine. And we just need to set their elevations. And we also need to add one So the level one is at zero. And I'm perfectly happy with that. I just want to set my level So what you want to do Come to the number. You can zoom in a little bit, And then you can type in an elevation. So in this case that's going to be 3200mm. You hit enter. And that elevation Now as I said So you want to zoom out a little bit click to deselect that level. And now you want to navigate architecture tab. Find the datum panel You can use the little shortcut. Or you can just click here on level. And that's going to start the level tool. So I'm just going to come here of the beginning of these levels. We get that little blue dashed line So I'm just going to come here line, click once, extend that level all the way to the other side And now I can click again to snap there. And then I'm just going to hit the escape Now I just want to set the elevation going to just mean that I come here Click again So now in case the level two is going to be at ten foot And the level three So just enter those numbers And now we have our project set up done. And we can get started with modeling. Our first project. Now it's time to start placing some walls. So let's go here to the project browser. Scroll up a little bit and double click on the level Then go to the architecture A is the shortcut in the properties panel. If I click on this drop menu, I'm going to select the LG wall LG basically means a lower for lower level And of course, if you're using Imperial, Then in the constraints. Also in the properties panel we have to So the base constraint is set to a level one, We want this wall to go from level So for the top constraint, by clicking here, opening up the drop menu So it goes from level one up to level two. And then we can just hit apply. Finally, to place the wall And in this case And now let's place it. We want to make a 6000 or a 20 by 33ft rectangle. But I'm just going to click here, then hit the escape key a couple of times Revit usually works this way and then you adjust the dimensions. It's a lot easier to work this way. So now let's come into one of the walls. Select the wall or just click on it. And then you're going to get We can use this to further dimension However this might not look exactly And that's just how it's set up. So here if you zoom in, you can see it or the inner face of this wall Now you just want to make sure And you can adjust that here in the manage find annotations, and here you can find Now if you're using it might be located somewhere It's here under annotations. You click on Temporary Dimensions. And here it's set to faces and for doors And then just click okay okay. Now let's go back. Select this wall. And here I'm just going to type out If you're using Imperial units. And then let's select to 10,000mm or 33ft. And just click an empty space Now it's time to start placing For that, let's And then in the properties panel Now for the base constraint You're going to notice that it capped previously. Revit So it's just going to keep those settings. And the only change is going to be with I'm going to pick out the line draw tool. Now I'm just going to draw a few walls So let's draw a shape like this. Hit the escape key but still stick inside of the wall tool. Then you want to place one wall here Hit the escape key a couple of times. Now again, it's time to dimension these So zoom in a little bit, select Then you want to adjust your, So this should be 1800 millimeters Next let's select this wall. And then this one should be Then I'm going to select this wall. Select the dimension. And this one is going to be set to 2000mm And finally for this one to 1300 millimeters Now I also want to dimension This is basically a wall that's going I want to have some kitchen cabinetry. So I just want to extend this wall Usually that's 600mm or 2ft one inch, but I don't really have a temporary dimension Well, in that case, You want to go here and find the online dimension, Then you want to hover And here you can see how it highlights I don't want the center line. I want the, finish So I can just hit the tab In this case, it's only once. Now it highlight, highlights this edge. Click. Do the same thing here. Click and then place that dimension Now I can hit the escape key Select that wall again, to add a dimension or to basically adjust So this will be 600mm or 2ft one. And then I can just select this dimension and hit delete Now once we have placed these walls, what our project looks like in 3D. So what I'm going to do now little 3D icon, And this is what that looks like. So as you work you can always go Click on the default 3D view. So you can see what your project For now I'm just going to close it. And then finally just in case the computer crashes So for that, let's go to the file menu. Let's go to Save As project. And now I can just save it on my computer. Let's call this one project one dash bar for Balkan Architect. And then I can just Now it's time to start modeling our upper level. So I'm going to go here You want to find floor plans and then find the level Now here if I zoom out But we cannot see really Now, in a lot of cases, this isn't going but in this case, because you want to use that level Well, it makes sense for me For that, So when you're in a view in the project browser, Or if you're in an elevation view So basically that means that your, panel is giving you your view properties. So now you want to scroll down Now this may be collapsed like this. So you just want to expand it And then you want to set the range base Once you hit apply Now we can see the outline of those walls. Now we cannot really select them we can use them as reference. So now we can start placing our walls. So to place the walls You want to go to the architecture tab, and click on the wall And then in the properties panel, exterior wall 300 millimeter Now and because I'm creating this is just going to be So for it that you want to go here on the draw panel. And finally you just want to make sure is set to level two. And the top constraint And they are. So that's perfect. So now I can just expand and then click again and hit the escape key a couple of times So now we have another rectangle. And in this case kind of in reference to our level one. I'm going to select this wall here. And you're going to notice that over here in between the lower level wall And here I want to set this to 1000mm or 3ft two. Then I'm going to click here. And then this is going to be basically So 1000mm or 3ft two. And here I'm Finally we want to set the value here And it's going to appear like this. So here millimeters. I'm just going to reduce that to 600mm. And then I'm going to hit enter So I have now set this up. So once we have the exterior walls, now it's time to, So basically what we want to do here is So to create that balcony, I'm going to be using the same wall. And now I'm just going to use the line Come here to the inner Click go towards the inside a little bit, click again, expand Now you're just going to hit the escape So this will be a balcony. Now I just need to remove this wall here. So to do that And then in the modify tab And on the modify panel we have the split And now what you can do is Come here to this edge. And when the edge highlights you click And when the edge highlights you click. And it's basically going to remove Now you just hit the escape key And now we have this segment. And now to set the dimensions And then I'm going to set this And I'm going to select this wall to 40 500mm or 14ft seven. And then for to kind of finalize walls, I'm going to come to this edge. And I actually want this to be a balcony. So what I'll do is I'll select this wall. And I'm actually going to delete that wall I'm going to go back Go to the wall tool. And then draw a simple line like so. Hit the escape key a couple of times. And now we have this exterior Here. Now we're going to be modeling the stair. So to model the stair you want to navigate to the level And in this case Here I want the stair So to place the stair we first need to go on the circular panel Click to start the stair tool. And then in the properties Now I'm just going to select And if you're using Imperial units Now I'm just going to select this type. And then for the actual run width I'm just going to leave Or you can set it up to three foot So with all of these settings we finally need to set the location line, And usually it's But here, because we're placing it up it makes more sense to set it to exterior So basically, the line support of that stair, So see here how I'm drawing the stair. You just want to follow that wall. And as you're moving your mouse up increase. And I just like to go a little bit past That's okay. It's not going to add And you just go a little bit past that and you click and it's Now when you select the stair, we also want to adjust the distance So what I'll do is I'll take this And when you see the temporary dimensions that you can click on that blue dot hold So because I want to measure from And now I'm just going And then here which is going to be 350mm or 4ft. And now we have our stair in place. Finally, So for that to go here to a railing open And here you're going to get And here I'm just going to set this And the position And then just click okay. And when we hit finish it's And it's in the exact place And if we go to level two you can see Now it's time to create our floors. So for that let's navigate to level one. So that's here in the project browser. Find level Now to start the wall tool On the build panel we have the floor tool. And you just want to click And once we click here you can see that floor tool started now in the properties you will notice that with this template And that's the one And also we have here And it's set to a level one. Obviously we're on level one. So we want to create that floor So we're going to leave everything as is. Finally to create our floor we need to go And then you can use any In this case Click to select. And then I'm just going to click here. You can see we get that little snap And I'm just going to snap here. Click expand. And then I can snap actually See how that blue line appears on the wall Okay. So I'm just going to snap to that. Extend that a little bit, beyond the house And now we have our floor created. And now I can just simply hit finish. So we have a floor beyond the walls and the front And I just prefer to have it like this Now we need to create a floor on level So let's open up level two. And here it's going to be a little bit Just because we have the walls We have the walls up here So I'm just going to start that floor And you can see in the properties panel Now it's level two because And we're probably creating our floor Now in terms of creating the boundary, as I said, it's So I'm going to go here to the draw Then I'm going to click on this wall And you can see that this line is now the the pink line It's on the outside of the wall. I can use this little flip, arrows but they actually want it to be Click here to do the same thing. And then I'm going to click here to do Now because we have this balcony I also want our floor to follow the So if I click on this wall So if it's on the outside because I want this wall to go past that railing for the balcony. I can do the same thing here, and I can do the same thing here. Finally, I want to connect this or these two lines here So for that, I'm just going to switch to Now this might look a bit complicated. And when I hit the escape key seems like we have sort of famous here, really quickly by using the trim So once you get the draw boundary and this will be the same for your walls you will get the modify panel as well And then you can use the trim or TR is the shortcut to fix things up. So in this case So I'm just going to click on this line. Make sure to click on the part of the line And then you click on this line. And it's just going to connect them Same thing is going to happen here. Just click on the two line segments And that's going to create the proper Finally So for that let's switch Zoom in Click expand to the other side. Click again and there we go. So now we have our entire floor. I can just hit finish. And it's going to ask us the walls And in some cases you want to attach them. In some cases you don't. So it's usually good to keep this dialog. So I suggest you don't check the don't So I want to see it. And then I'm just going to hit attach So it's going to give us some warnings And that's it. And now I just want to turn off because we no longer need So I'm just going to go here So just make sure nothing is selected To go to the properties panel, scroll from level one to none for the range base And now you can see Now it's time to place interior walls on our level two. So to do that, And then we're going to go to Click on the wall tool. Always is the shortcut. And here Then in the properties to see if the base constraint And the top constraint And in this case it is. So we can just leave it as is. And then for the draw tool Now in this case placing a little bit different edge of this exterior So we want the edge of the interior wall to kind of Now, to achieve this, what we need to do is And you can see it's Now I can change this to finish face In this case it doesn't really matter of the building and all of our walls So in this case, I'm just going to set it And that means you can see the line where a draw And then if I hit the space key, I'm just going to hit the escape key now, Click here at the edge. Start moving I want to hit the space key. Now to flip. And then go to the other side And then you can just hit the escape key Once inside of your wall tool, it will stop the chain of walls, You need to hit the escape key Command. Okay, so now let's go to this side here. And then I'm going to hit this edge. Click again. Hit the space key And then go all the way up to the stairs. Then here I want to flip it again. So hit the space key and then go and Another click here that here at the escape key once. And finally I want to create another wall And then like this. And finally hit the escape key to completely exit the wall command. Now I want to extend this wall. So I'm just going to select it, which is this blue point. And then you click and hold over to the point Finally, we can just set the dimensions. Now we only have a couple of dimensions So this I'm going to set to 1900 and 50mm or 6ft four. And then on this side to 2650mm or 8ft. And there we go. So now we have this bathroom area. And then this is going to be a bedroom. And this is going to be And we also have these two closets. Now it's time for railings. Now in this project we're going to have One approach is going to be obviously and for the railing here where we're just going to be Now on this balcony here, which we have on the bottom floor up. And then those walls So let me first show you how to create What you want to do is be on the level In this case that's going to be level two. Then I'm going to move here So on the architecture tab find the railings Now here in the properties panel And in this case 900 millimeter type If you're using the Imperial system the draw panel, just like we did with the So you can just use a simple line. And then for this here on the inside of this stair. So I can just come in here and I can draw, or if I can show you a little trick instead of lines, use pick lines So I can add an offset of something And then when I come to this line, it's going to give us a dashed line Now, if I come to the other side, it's on the other side. So basically, you want to make sure and just come close enough You click once all the way, basically offset Now I can just hit finish a railing exactly in that position. Now we also want to have railings here on the edge of this floor for the balcony. So for that again let's just Go back to the railing tool. And now let's switch here in the And also you can double check level is set to a level And then we can create our railings here. So I'm just going to zoom in offset that a little bit. I'm not even going to bother And then just extend it to the other side, click again and then hit finish. And now we have railing here and here. So we have created our regular railings. And then in the next video I'm for railings. In this to create the railing for our balcony. Now to see what's going on here. We're going to explore the 3D view. So to open up the 3D view to the Quick Access toolbar And that's going to open up your 3D view. And our house is starting So now let's see to generate So you can see that they're attached So to detach them, what you want to do Then you want to go to detach And then you just want And now as you can see it's Then with this wall selected you can then go to the top offset here In this case Or you can go with three feet And now we have extended that wall up. Now we need to do the same thing So let's hit the escape key and then let's see what can we do here. So if I try to extend this wall it's going And the same thing goes on the other side. And we don't want that. So what we're going to do and allow one half of this wall while the rest will stay So how do we do that? Well, we need to go down to level one. So let's go to the project And then we need to see the walls above To do that we need to deselect everything. So just click an empty space. You're going to see here That means we have the view properties. And now we can scroll down and change the range base level When we hit apply it's going to show me Now I can come in here over here along the exterior Now to split that, you need to go here to the modify tab and click on the split element tool And now we want to uncheck And I'm just going to come here to this that wall. And we have that temporary dimension And now we can just click here and it's Now we're going to do we want to detach this wall. And we actually do want to detach it. And there we go. Now just repeat the same thing So just hover over the edge, highlights at the exact spot. And then you just click again. We get the error message And now they are detached. So we can just hit the escape key Go to the 3D view. And now you can see these two walls Now I'm just going to select one of them. Orbit around Select this one as well. So now we have both of them We can go to the properties panel. We can find the top offset 900mm or 3ft. Hit apply. And now those walls have been extended up, to wall to the the upper floors here. Now it's time to place doors and windows So for that I'm going to navigate here And the project browser. And then one thing I want to change here is going to be the underlay setting. As you can see And I don't want that because it can seem So let's go here to the properties panel. Make sure nothing is selected in the view. So we get the view properties. Scroll down to the underlay settings Hit apply. And now as you can Now to place our first doors. Let's go to the build panel. Then we can go to the door tool. Drag is the shortcut. And then here in the properties menu, And we have multiple types for each one. So I'm just going to select And use that as the entrance. So I'm just going to come here And then depending on which side or you approach the wall with your cursor, it's going to place a door on this side Also, if you tap the space key, And then you can just click to place it. Now, if I hit the escape key that when I select the door Our arrow flips to flip either in and out or left and right. So even if you just place a door, position or orientation, So if you're not happy with the position, Okay. Moving forward, let's plays So let's go here to the door tool. Now I'm going to switch to a smaller door. Something like this. And I'm just going to place it here. And of course you will use the Imperial equivalents Finally, for this closet So I'm just going to pick the 100 And then I'm going to place it here. Now when you come to place that door, We get those temporary dimensions to kind of figure out Now it's reporting That means and we have the same distance Now, I can just hit the escape key And let's now move to level two Now here we need the door for the bathroom for this room So for that, let's I'm going to pick the 80 centimeter And then I'm going to choose the smaller one for the bathroom and just place it here again Or you can now after you've placed Now I want to switch the family to the bifold And then I'm just going to place it here and use those dimensions So let's place one door here Perfect. Now let's hit the escape key So now it's time to place the windows. And on the upper level So I'm only going to have windows here So to place those windows tab on the build panel Now I can come here You can see you can flip them inside or outside And here I'm just going to place And then I want to place one window here about 700mm from the edge. So basically I'm just looking where this And now I can just hit the escape key Finally let's go to the 3D view. So go here to the Quick Access toolbar. Click on the default 3D view. And here I just want to adjust the head with the head So what they can do is I can select And here if I go to the bottom which is in this case 2300mm. I can just ctrl c to copy that. And then I can select this window, and then add this window And then here for the head height and hit apply. And it's going to lower all three windows head height across doors and windows. For this project. Now it's time to place some curtain walls on our house. For that, I'm going to navigate to a level Open that up, and then I want to place a curtain wall inside of this wall here. So you can actually do that in Revit. You can have a curtain wall So I'm just going to go to the wall And then here I can find the storefront wall type So when I select that I can just come in I'll use an offset of 400mm from the edge. And then I'm just going to go here. Click again, hit the escape key And now we have placed a curtain wall Now it makes sense to go to the properties So you come, you select that wall, constraint go all the way to level two, And then this height And then when I hit apply and go to the 3D view, So it's limited in its height. It's not going all the way to level So now let's go up to our level two there as well. So I'm just going to go here to level two. Or you can find it in the project And then let's go again to the wall tool. And it's going to remember that this is So I'm just going to select that one. Now here The base constraint is set to level two. And I'm just going to leave that as is. Because actually on the level two wall go all the way to the roof okay. So now to place that wall again I'm just I'm going to go here towards the edge. Click and then extend this about 2000mm or 6ft six inches. And we have now a curtain wall here. Then let's go to the other side So I'm just going to place a curtain wall Now in this case And you can use the space key In this case, obviously I want it to go to the outside And finally I'm going to start from here It's going to be 2000mm or 6ft six inches. And there we go. Hit the escape key a couple of times. Now also this wall I want this whole wall So you can actually just select this wall, go to the properties And it's going to transform this If you're not happy with the orientation Now in this case So I'm just going to use the arrow And now we have placed Now it's time to create a roof for our house. So to create a roof what we need to do is which is going to be level And then when you zoom in, you can see it looks a little bit weird and some things are not showing, So when we're trying to create something levels as reference, we need to make sure So in the properties panel Then we can just scroll down and change the base A level to And now we can see that level underneath So now to create the roof what we need to do is go to We have the roof tool. And you just click on the little icon Now to sketch out the roof. It's basically like creating a floor. So you use the draw tools And in the properties In this case we only have one. So this is the one And here you can see the base And that's exactly what we want to see. And now we can just go to the draw tools. And I'm going to pick walls or use So I can come here So you come to the wall. And as you can see if I hover over the bottom that blue dashed line on the bottom. And if I hover over the upper side, we get That basically means So you just want to approach those walls Here, here, here, here, and then over here. Perfect. And then finally for this bottom side, I'm just going to switch this And then I'm going to create Now I'm just going to hit the escape key Then I can zoom in here and make sure I See here we have an issue Everything seems to be in order. Now we need to turn off the slope So basically when you have a line and it has this little triangle Now this is perfectly fine But if you don't want a slope So that means from that edge If you don't want that, In this case I want to turn that off And then here on this entire section. So I'm just going to make and go towards the left. So it's just going to select everything And then I can come here to define So basically these things will not affect the the slope of the roof or slope Now word for word. We also want to adjust the slope. So if I make a selection like this hold Here we can adjust the slope. And I can set this to 35 if I want. Just like that. And then finally So what is a plate offset. Plate offset basically means that, or from the level at the bottom, We want this So let me demonstrate. If I hit finish And the roof looks like this. And it looks perfectly fine. However, if I want to make it what they can do And then in level three I can select these two sides and then I can go to plate offset And I'm just going to type And then you want to hit And now when you go to the 3D view And I think it goes very well And that's how you create the roof. Now it's only a matter of connecting up to that roof to kind of complete So to do that, You want to go here this view cube and click on front And then you can make a cross selection. So you want to make sure and make a cross selection towards And it's going to basically select Then you want to go here to filter. And then we're going to filter down So I can go to check Hit apply. And it's going to remove all of the doors So on. And the railings. And then when to hit. Okay now I can go to attach the base click there, make sure it says top here. And then when I select that roof So all of the walls to that roof. Now we're going to get this error message need to kind of readjust. And they're going to delete some Malians That's perfectly fine. So you just click here So now we have our building. Now here because as you can see here on the curtain going to goes on the roof So let's select that roof. Let's go back to Edit Footprint. Go to level three. And then here in level three towards the edge of that curtain wall And now in the 3D view And now it looks correct. In this video I'm going to be showing you how to place So placing doors on curtain walls on regular walls, because these doors Here we have six panels, and the doors And those doors aren't going to be but they're going to be panels So let me show you how this works. What do you want to do? First is navigate to a level one. Here in the project browser And now I want to first check So if I select one of the grids, or over at or below it, And if you click to select it And here we can see this is 1300. Now in this case I don't like that way too big for a door way too wide. So what I'm going to do or a mullion, just here So what I'm going to do then go to the build panel And with the curtain grid tool and then create, an extra grid for that door here. I think this is displaying 1000mm. I think that's enough. And I'm just going to place that grid Then I can go to my level So let's go here to curtain grid zoom And then we can take a look at this. Hit the escape key And I think this is already large enough So once we have done that where we can fit the doors, And let's actually start First you zoom in to the panel. You hit the tab key once or twice You click to select, Once that panel is unpinned, then Open up the drop menu. And now you can see what we can place. So we can have this as a glass panel. We can have it as a solid panel. But most importantly And I'm just going to click here And now as you can see, We have those flip arrows which we can use to flip this in and out I want to set it up like this. And then I can just click out okay. So now let's go to our level two So hover over the panel. Hit the tab key. Once or twice until it highlights. Click to select unpin it Here. And in this case let's say And finally for this one again Hit the tab key once or twice Click to select. Click here to unpin And in this case I'm just going to flip it So once we have done this However So when I go to the 3D view We need to turn this So down here at the bottom It's the detail level. And when you set it to fine it's on those curtain doors Now here we have this bottom mullion which is kind of is acts in as a step. And I don't like that. So I can hover over it. If it doesn't highlight immediately click to select unpin And now the door is going to go And then I'm just going to repeat And let's do the same thing here. Select And now everything looks a little bit Now it's time to add some furniture So let's navigate to a level And I'm going to zoom in. And first I'm going to add the bathroom or toilet fixtures for this here room. So for that So on the architecture tab on the build CM is the shortcut. And because we're using a template in. So we don't have to go for those families So I'm going to go here to the properties expand that, Here we go. And this is a wall based family, so But as soon as you come to a wall And then here we get those useful temporary dimensions And it's perfectly positioned. Now we can go back to the properties, So the sink is also a wall based family. I'm just going to select this one. And as soon as I come to the wall And then I can place it Now I want to repeat the same thing So let's navigate Go to component Then I want to go back to the water And then finally And for that let's expand And instead of searching for it like this, going to show me the freestanding bathtub Then I can come here to the project, to use the space key So when you tap the space key, by 90 degrees. And then I can place it here Just like that. Hit the escape key a couple of times. And now we have all of our plumbing Let's go back down to level one. And now let's fill out this, So we want to have some shelves And for that to have a perfect family, So basically sketch out the line and it's So if I go here to component and then let's open up the drop we have two options. I'm going to go to the smaller one. Select it. And then when you come close here expand it, and then you can hit the space And now when you click the second time and it's Now I can repeat the same thing here And then let's do the same thing for the kitchen So placement is going to be really easy. Again let's search here for kitchen perfect. These are the lower cabinets. Click here. Expand. Hit the space key And then click once again. I'm also going to click here and expand it for the island and then hit the space, and finally let's go back to the Expand the drop menu. And here we have the upper cabinets. Now for the upper cabinets you want to make sure that the place And then let's click here. Hit the space key to flip it And now we have those cabinets in place. If I go to the 3D view you can see We we can see it So we have placed our kitchen. Now it's time to move to the living room. So let's go here to the living room. And for that let's first figure out And then the living room area Let's go to component. Let's expand the drop menu Here we go. We have some coffee tables So let's go with a regular one. You can use the space gateway And I'm just going to place it like this Then let's go and search for some chairs. Here we have this chair And then again you can use the space key And I'm just going to place one Then I'm going to hit the escape key And now I just want to have four chairs And for that what I'm going to do So when you select an element on the modifier tab And here we have When you select this tool You can check copy here. And then when you find the center it's going to basically copy it Now I can just select these two chairs Go to mirror Find the vertical center line click. And now it has basically copied And finally, just to make it a bit easier I'm just going to make a broad selection And then I'm going to go to the create and click on create group We can call this one And now this is a group. So no matter what I select So I can move it around and Okay. So once we're done with our dining area So for the living room, Open up the drop menu. Let's search for sofa. We have this three seater sofa. Select that and let's place one sofa like this here okay. So now I can hit the space key Flip it to the other side. And you can see when I kind of center them which is going to indicate And then I can click again Now let's search for that coffee table okay. Let's select the largest one You're going to get these little lines And then we can hit the space key Now in this case So let's do that again. Hit the space key, find the position, hit the space key again Now I'm not really sure what the distances And for that So let me show you if you go here to the align dimension in Then I'm going to find the central line of this Click find the center line of the table. Click and find the center I can place it here and it's going to equalize the distance. Now this is really cool that delete the dimension and I'm So just click here on okay. When you select this it's And then when you move us so far You can see that So it stays in the center And that's a really cool way So once I'm happy with the position So let's go to component expand this menu And just place it on this wall. Hit the escape key a couple of times. And now looking at it and use the arrow keys a couple of times and to leave a bit more room Okay. And finally, let's go to level two. And here I'm just going to leave this area however you like. But just for the bedroom So let's go here to component. Expand the drop menu and search for bed. Here we have this double bed and I can just hit the space key Flip it around and I can just place it Hit the escape key So now we have furniture entire house. And finally, for some finishing touches, a nice perspective view So what I'm going to do here to our level three Let's go up here to the default 3D view. But instead of clicking on the button next to it. This is going to create I'm going to place it a little bit And then let's aim And you want to go with your cursor on both of these lines on the sides are kind of encompassing the whole, So let's create a view There we go. So as you can see, it looks really, We can then expand this or just make it a bit smaller or larger In this case, let's make it like this. And then finally let's So I'm just going to go here So that's this little, sphere You turn that on And just looking at this building right to have this wall, with the same So I'm just going to click here, to switch it to our lower level floor. And with those lines I think And it looks a lot better. Finally, So what I'll do is I'm going to go to the visual style, And here in the graphic display options the graphics of this thing. So first I'll turn on the smooth lines. And when I hit apply, as you can see the lines will become a bit Then let's expand the shadows So when I hit apply, it's And the space is going to be presented And finally, let's go to lighting. And here I'm just going to set this So let's go like this. And then this one can be at 30 So 3040 50 or 50 4030 for the sun, And when I hit apply So the shadows aren't as dark. And then I can just okay out of this menu. And now we have this presentation view How well did we learn Revit Congratulations, of our beginner to intermediate level. Of course, if you would like to continue you can get the full course by following Also, with some Revit problems, and the link to that will also Thank you for