Should I cut my hair short? That is a question that we And before I get a comment in the comments It's just hair. It grows back. I just want to let you know that hair And it is a bit of a big decision unless you're one of those people where your hair and then you and your Now, I have a client like this. You know who you are. Everyone, let's leave Cheryl. Some hate in the comment section. Don't leave Cheryl hate. But for everyone else who is not Cheryl, it really is and can be a pretty big about yourself and how you feel about your let's talk about some If you are thinking of going short. Consideration number one is your Esthetically, the most pleasing face shape or the one that has the most amount of So theoretically, what we do in beauty is we try to get everyone's face shape by doing a lot of tricks and techniques Now, I hate saying this. I hate putting this out there on the Internet because I really don't don't have an oval face shape, But from my experience, having worked in this industry for 16 not an oval face shape, of styling or in terms of cutting illusion, the client If you do something on a face shape that doesn't theoretically suit that face the client instinctively hates it They just know that the balance I'm going to show you This is literally the perfect So this beautiful client came I wasn't cutting, I was styling the hair. And what we originally wanted to do was create a middle part 70s curtain bang with Now, as you can see, her face is It's not long or oblong or super oval. It is a little bit of a shorter face. Now, she is stunning. Absolutely stunning. But what happened is when I did I ended up giving her a lot of horizontal And as soon as I parted it down the middle, I collapsed So what we ended up getting was a low volume, low vertical volume, She already has a round face. We squashed her face and we widened it bigger and fuller and her So even though the hair itself looked the first thing she did when she looked I don't know if I love this. And I was like, yeah, same. So it's not necessarily that someone with But most times, nine times out of ten, if you do something to a face shape the client themselves or you yourself will So in this case, we go into a deep side tons of vertical height and volume So it takes the face from looking So does that mean that someone with, for example, a round face shape It absolutely does not mean that. All I am saying when I tell you to keep your face shape in consideration is that you like it in the end If you look at tons of photos of girls at all these amazing haircuts, and your stylist gives you that exact on your face because your face isn't So if you have a round face shape, You can leave one to two inches below a jawline that isn't strong or you have if you want to get a bob, Because if you put a strong line right here in the jawline and in the chin, right away, and that area Another thing you can do, for example, tons of height here by doing So when you get your hair cut, you could tell your stylist, because I have a rounder face, can put it into a deep side part so I That type of communication and really knowing what path you want to take what style you really want, a lot more than if you just go in without going to work for your Now, this also really, Whenever I have, like, a beautiful, curvy client, I find that they love having Because that type of hair, the fullness, that really suits their curvy body Whereas I also notice that when I have they oftentimes gravitate towards those And they're not too much volume, They're just a petite haircut. It's a little itty bitty bit I know this can feel really complicated. And you can think, like, I don't know. How am I supposed to know You do know, and you know instinctively because you have had haircuts, Try to figure out why you've hated them. Try to look at the haircut Look at your body and figure Something was off balance, You have the instinct to know it. You just have to figure out why it was that way so that you don't The biggest piece of advice that I can give you is to find So a celebrity that has a similar body maybe even a similar style esthetic, and look at their hair Find your celebrity lookalike, and then you will know pretty on you and if it's something Consideration number two Your hair texture has so much to do with whether or not a style Sometimes we really want a style. We really, really do. But we don't have the texture for it. I have always wanted really I do. I want to be a mermaid stripper, swimming around in my locks for days, but My hair is fine. My hair is thin. There's thinning areas. When my hair gets past here, which is a collarbone area, It starts to look really thin. It starts to become unstylable. It doesn't work for me. who's the complete opposite, She wanted to rock a bob a few years ago. She wanted a really kind of blunt, slick But because her hair was so thick It becomes triangular. It becomes unruly, unbalanced. She wanted this cut so badly that she ended up getting it chemically bit, but then when it grew out, because then she had these really curly, kind of thin looking end, Like, the textures were totally opposite. The haircut didn't work, and she ended She liked it for, like, a month, So you have to think, The shorter the hair, the more volume you If you have hair that needs weight to sit nicely, think carefully before cutting it having a lot of work And that brings me to consideration number If you have long hair and you never wear it down and you never style it, you're suddenly not going There are hair lengths that have Pixie cuts are this type of cut. If you have a pixie cut, seriously lucky and just have great hair But that's like one in 50, And chin length bobs and shorter, if you don't style those every day, They are styles that need to be styled. So you have to think about your lifestyle. Are you the type of person that wakes up You have to get your kids to school. You have to get to work. Do you have 45 minutes to blow out your and texture spray and do Are you the type of girl Nine times out of ten. Another thing you want to think about is if you wear your hair up all the time, It could be because you can't You don't have the patience, Or it could be because you love That is also me. I really like how I look with my hair up, to wear my hair know, shoot my YouTube videos For real, I wear it up every other time. And even when I'm done shooting the video, I turn the camera off and I put my hair I really do feel less pretty. So if you are that type of person, it doesn't mean that you But you might want to think about cutting where when you style it, you look But if you want to ignore it, then you also can consideration number Every once in a while, a style inspo, and it was a style And I knew this because I knew them and how they dress and their accessories Sometimes we can get so inspired by the hashtag influencer world, I need to be her. I'm so inspired by her content. But then when you actually look I had this with another influencer. I'm going to pop some I think this girl is so pretty. I literally want to be this girl. I just think she's beautiful. I love her style. I love her tattoos. I love how she dresses, But then when I think I have, like, super dark hair. She is very fair skinned. She's covered in tattoos. I'm a mom. I am not edgy at all. I'm pretty girly. But, like, in a. This girl's girly, too, I'm not. So that haircut on me will look nothing. Nothing like that haircut on that girl. Because I don't look like her, for one. Because I don't dress like her. And I am not even her age. I'm probably way older than her. So when you are looking for Inspo, in the same style as you because I'll catch you guys in the next one.