Hey Doctor Bernard here. Don't do what this in the bodybuilding and powerlifting circles generally avoid it. So medically, and personally, also a YouTuber and he talks about his whole description below. A Man Had A Life Threatening Accident With To His Organs. CE is a 22 year old man, presenting to the His brother in law, tells the admitting nurse floor while cold water was running all over they go away, refusing to get in to the ambulance, flowing in and out of consciousness, he refused CE was a college student who enjoyed fitness. When he was in elementary school, in the early [Patient CE] Most of middle School, I was of on the shorter side. I was overweight, When he got to high school, he started lifting one was gonna bully him anymore. [Patient CE] I came in to 9th grade, and no And I was started to really grow in to my saved me from bullying, It saved me from being One day, when CE was 17, his dad suddenly [Patient CE] It was completely unexpected. the next thing I know, I'm getting pulled blamed myself for the death of my father. and loss and the second that happened, everything The next thing that happened is that I started Eventually, CE's physical body responded to coping with everything. He justified to that it would be like redeeming himself. He started by heavily restricting his food. skip class to be at the gym for hours every tough it was on his body. Eventually CE plateaued and his body adapted going, he found a next step-- he was going [Patient CE] It was never a gradual thing. when I started kind of looking for ways to On a bodybuilding forum, CE read about stimulants the body's metabolism. That'll burn fat, and use them in combination, together. He it wasn't enough. Back online, CE found about a chemical named [Patient CE] So once again, I turned back point I had heard of DNP. But it wasn't it, and I started looking up DNP. You know, both extremes: you hear about people dying, to 15 pounds in the course of like a week of desperation, seeing 3 or 4 different YouTubers being like "yeah, DNP is tough to be on, be fine" sort of thing, I decided to make To someone doing their own research online, done. And CE started taking DNP. Immediately after taking a dose of his new stop sweating. It got to the point where it just sweat everywhere in class and in front He would blast the air conditioning, fans only stayed high. Every time he took it, it The Internet forums told CE to be careful always came back and said, "don't worry 8 months later, CE wasn't fine. In the morning, he took his dose, which should a nap, and woke up confused, and took a second that was the last thing he'd remember for In the afternoon, CE's brother in law walked was on. Bathroom Door was open. He found CE was running all over him. [Patient CE] My brother in law walks by and all I would get out is "Get me Coca-cola at this point, my body's ravaging every got it. And by the time he came back, I had I was under the assumption that possession so to admit that I was in any kind of danger want to incur the financial cost of an ambulance I lost consciousness and once again my brother a second time. The brother in law asks what's wrong but calls for 911, and CE's brought to the emergency At examination, CE is sweaty, confused and his measured body temperature is normal. And liver are shutting down. CE drifts in and out of consciousness. He he won't tell doctors exactly what he had trouble. CE thought it was illegal to take to manufacture, market and sell for human have gotten in trouble, but the people who Usually in a previously healthy 22 year old sweaty, in respiratory failure, with a fast of is stimulant use. Being the end of summer, substance deaths have a higher incidence on increased ambient temperature makes it harder of a stimulant. But CE's urine screen returned As the hours pass, CE's body temperature intensive care unit because his organ shut while he was intermittently combative with tube down his throat so that a machine could could help the medical team somewhat, but his proteins start to deform. Basic bodily body is cooking itself alive. And this is it immediately. Doctors still have no idea what CE had taken. Problems like his kidneys and liver shutting when the underlying problem is fixed. But no way for doctors to fix that underlying antidote, or they could give something to happening. But they didn't know. In the intensive care unit, doctors place temperature. They hydrate him with chilled Both of these help his fever and kidney failure problem. And finally, CE's brother breaks DNP that CE had been taking for weight loss addition to other fat loss substances including And this explains to doctors exactly what DNP is 2,4 Di Nitro Phenol. People know the Like Nitro-glycerin, the thing that goes boom NITRO Phenol can also be explosive. And if pain and heart problems, then di nitro phenol Explosions are a quick release of heat. And him down fast enough. DNP isn't exploding The mitochondria, powerhouse of the cell, means creation of heat. But how exactly, is This brings us to a concept called a gradient. get pumped out from the mitochondrial matrix. happen. Human bodies are many of millions of chemicals. When protons get pumped out of the matrix, This creates tension. Nature prefers a relaxed balanced, as all things should be. But if that means a gradient exists. Those protons so they'll want to move back in to the matrix. wrong. In living systems, most chemicals that just cross through a membrane on their own. have a positive charge, so they can't just is smart. It allows those protons back in a specific pore. And in going through this to create Adenosine Triphosphate, ATP, which the cell. But what happens, if a chemical like DNP, freely through cells to bring protons in to then comes back with more protons? And it Then, protons don't want to move, because the mitochondria can't exploit them anymore I explain more on my second channel Heme Review add it to your Watch Next queue if it's description below. If the mitochondria is short circuited by ATP, then it needs to do other things to compensate are a good source of energy, so break them have fat tissue in our body is to have stored to keep up energy production, then it needs start to panic. Dinitrophenol has stopped And because CE took multiple doses accidentally, heat, as his body starts cooking itself, alive. The Internet forum was right. DNP burns fat. the process to make energy. The energy expenditure, uncomfortable, socially unacceptable sweating. meaning high and thermia referring to heat to the point of denaturing enzymes and proteins the only thing raising CE's body temperature. His brother told doctors that CE had also the body's metabolism, gets used in some Ephedrine also raises body temperature and the body towards fight or flight mode, which energy, and thus result in, higher body temperature. So you can see a common theme here. The idea help lose weight isn't new. The simplified day than you put IN to your body, then over stores of your body-- the fat tissue-- and than that, but lets keep it there for now You can put IN less energy to your body daily, energy, we call that exercising and being jump right in to it and suddenly drop their to lets say 400 calories a day. They go super even ease themselves in to it, and they'll they plateau, and they stop making progress. if they even try to exercise harder, they after just a few weeks, the worst part is fat tissue, just the sugars stored in the which if one checks the scale every day, and that's where they'll see their progress, they'll start relaxing, or they may quit say that it never worked. When you diet, start and tighten as time goes on. It can be as at lunch time, or just removing 1/4th of your afterwards. It's at the plateau point some people will go to online forums, or they ask people in buy at the store, which I would be careful core stuff, bringing us back to CE. In the intensive care unit, doctors have no it out of his mitochondria. Whatever he took, While that is happening, doctors can treat they can do. Except, maybe there is one thing. Doctors be used in the setting of hyperthermia. This getting released into muscle cells. Calcium which by itself, would create heat. Calcium this case, could help lower heat production doesn't always help, but maybe it's in Five hours after the first dose of dantrolene, came back. Over the next 36 hours, 4 more presenting to the emergency room, the tube him as he regained consciousness. The thing about admission in to the intensive not really moving. You're sedated and a nutrients intravenously, and it's the bare though CE is muscular and was fit, he's going next several months, because of muscle breakdown the DNP alone, but because of how tough it I don't recommend anyone take any of this seen, and from a personal standpoint, having I know someone is going to say that this is could be right, except the incentive for taking is gone, you don't want to take more. But to lose weight. And there's no telling where one could just keep taking and taking, because Someone making that argument might not agree, own experience. [Patient CE] I just really want to highlight alone, I would've been dead. Had my brother would have been dead. Had I just gone up to I wouldn't be here. You know, so many people opportunity to tell this story. Sure, there's good experiences with it. But it's such you take DNP, you're strapping yourself When you go to the ER for a a knife wound, know what they're dealing with- they know tell the doctors you're on DNP, they've yourself at a significant disadvantage of tempting idea of radical weight loss. But kind of person that struggles to lose weight you'll experience with DNP. There's the not nearly the promised miracle chemical that to create healthy relationships with your mind. Explore weight loss in terms of changing lead to sustainable and healthy change in After an ICU admission. A lesson learned about journey of self improvement, CE made a full channel. Link in the description below. The full interview with CE is on my Heme Review care of yourself, and be well.