Transcriber: Martin Laclaustra The art of stress free productivity I'll start with a quick little story. 1990. I took an overnight sailing trip to Santa Cruz island, that is part of the Channel Islands, at 26 miles off the coast It's a rugged, beautiful island sheer cliffs, a lot of rocky outcroppings. We anchored in a tiny little cove, we anchored in one as it was getting dark. We went below to make dinner, and the wind suddenly came up to a howl as it does in this area, As I'm making dinner, I got the queasy feeling and sure enough, That's very uncool. In a tiny little cove, and about 50 yards away, a very nasty see is brewing; turn on the motor so we could get and, sure enough, I ran over the rear We now no longer have control of the boat. We are now at the mercy of wind which is and blowing us out of the cove but then down along that coast, I radioed the Coast Guard. They let us know it would be three hours before their heavy weather So we're pretty much We got our things ready to go overboard The boat and even our lives were at risk. And almost simultaneously, and notice the most incredible, And amidst all that chaos, we actually had the experience I tell you that story because I'm sure, in your history, where you were in something and somewhere along the line Time disappeared. You were fully present. You were totally engaged You were in a productive flow. And if you had the luxury you may have then had the experience like my girlfriend and I did that night. See, interestingly, crisis can that's rare to find sometimes. Why? It demands it. Because it's the calm that create the kind of positive, that moves us into &quot;our zone&quot;. Very clear on the outcome instantly making and taking actions, being meaningfully engaged And everything else in our life was put on the back burner, so that we would be totally present And you probably experienced that too. And maybe you had Wouldn't it be nice, by the way, if you could experience that kind of peace without having the danger It actually is possible. Let me give you a little secret. &quot;Getting things done&quot; It's really about being with what's going on. &quot;Appropriate engagement&quot; Many times, not getting something done Every one of you, hopefully, with every single thing else So there's some key, there's something unique Why does a crisis get us there? Because it forces us to do Now, there's a lot to unpack I'll hit the highlights of it, think about: are you appropriately engaged right now With the paper you need to write? With your cat? With the holiday coming towards you? Are you appropriately engaged Are you appropriately engaged, by the way, with all the stuff you've heard I might/would/could/should/want Do you have An indicator, by the way, to find opportunities is to just notice what's on your mind. Any of you have anything on your mind Any of you have any strategic Interestingly, the more it is on your mind, the more you are Why it's not on cruise control? It's only on your mind because you know or some decisions about that or you haven't parked the results of that that you trust will be triggered You actually don't have to be appropriately engaged but there are very specific things So there's a number that happen about all this material; there some counter-intuitive things about what I'm going to be sharing You are going to need if you want to get without a crisis forcing you to do that. The big paradox is of all the stuff of your life in order to manage that you just need three core principles It's not about the new smartphone. It's not about a new piece of software. Those are cool tools, but only insofar as you use them Once you get those principles, A second paradox here is that the initial moves, and behaviors, may very likely, for many of you, very unnatural, and even unnecessary. It's exactly like learning moves If you want to learn how to maximally you're going to have to spend doing something that feels very awkward Hundreds of hours doing that! Once you do that, by the way, in terms of producing power. Some of the things I'll be recommending For instance, don't keep anything That's going to feel unnatural, Every single thing that takes more you need to clarify exactly and put that on a project list Every single next action you need to take you are involved in, you need to clarify that you'll see those actions That's going to feel awkward, But the final paradox about all this is that some very specific when applied, produce in a kind of sophisticated spontaneity which, in my experience, Now, I'm going to reinforce what it would look like And I'm going to give some hows, But what's the problem? The problem is when you're not in crisis. There's a more subliminal crisis Why? The whole world now Boom! You now get to experience all the stuff that you would/could/should/ all the stuff piling up in your in-baskets All of that now floods into your psyche, and that could easily create a sense of confusion, a sense of conflict. Every single thing seems to demand And then, you usually respond to that by either numbing out And then you blame that stress &quot;Oh! I just have... Oh! God! All I need is more time!&quot; Well! I'm sorry! Leonardo da Vinci, Thomas Jefferson, Einstein, Mother Teresa, only had 24 hours. Johann Sebastian Bach I know he didn't have email (Laughter) And you say, &quot;Just give me two more hours! You know what you'd do You'd have two more hours Actually, for most of you, it'd be a good thing Because the issue is not time. How long does it take Zero time! How long does it take to be inspired? Zero time! How long does it take you could leverage Zero time! Time is not the issue for those things. There is something required Psychic bandwidth. Believe me. Every executive I coach, &quot;Oh yes! I need room to think. I need space to be able all that stuff I am being tasked I just need a room! And if you don't have psychological space you could have two hours If you do have psychic bandwidth, two minutes on an elevator, and have a fabulous relationship So this is the real key issue here. Is the lack of the bandwidth to be able Even worse than that is that our creative energy Our creative energy is being used and try to remember, and remind, and try to do all that stuff all the details and stuff of their life Just trying to keep up with the mess. And by the way, life is messy Actually, mess is cool. Actually, the most is when I have the freedom I need room to be crazy, to brainstorm, to be chaotic, That is going to be It is when you have However, folks, if you're already If your kitchen is a mess, to have a creative dinner If your desk and your office are a mess, you don't have room and space and spread out, If your email is backed up on you and you got 3,000 other things you have no space to take advantage in terms of being creative, The results of that, to manage that mess is that you get the results of two things that are the critical elements You'll lose perspective, that is, you'll lose the ability on exactly the thing you need it and/or you may be experiencing the results that is, I now don't have stability, to be able to put the appropriate tension So those are the two key elements. Folks, you can't manage time. You don't mismanage five minutes The only time that you think is when one or both of these Either things need to be more under control If you map those two things together, If you are on the bottom left here - Ever been there? - that's your basic victim experience. You know, For the most part, by our own over-commitments in which you can't even try Now if that part of you shows up that has now you're the mad scientist, now you're the crazy maker with all kinds of crazy ideas and you have nothing very well-organized. In the middle the morning, which your IT department won't support. On the other hand, if you get down &quot;I need to get 10,000 things organized, I need to get all this and now you are getting If you don't have appropriate focus, you can get down in those weeds And you spent a lot of time trying to get organized about things Like in the morning, you were in the afternoon, you spent two hours trying to set up the right ring tones. Here's what's true You'd better get ready You will be sub-optimal in terms and they're coming. Good, bad, or indifferent. And you want to be optimally available Everybody says, &quot;I'm doing OK.&quot; And I doubt if many of you in here to go do what I'm talking about because some part of you Of course, you got a job. You've relationships. I'm suggesting though if thousands of people would implement it could be a whole lot better. How sustainable is your life and workstyle How available are you that are right around you right now, to recognize and take advantage of them? And it could be a whole lot better. What would better Well, let's use a metaphor from nature. Nature seems to get but it is not stressed You know, there just seems to be about how things happen here. So, if you go back If I had just the right amount and just enough structure, so that I got the stability and then to execute on it, now you're in which, by the way, is very cool, that you're then going to be able and what was designed for, which is using you know, in the new frontiers, you're going to much more be in your zone as a normal state And you are going to be of dealing with surprise And, by the way, That's what's new about the world; Be ready for that. Basically, I refer to it, I use a martial arts term A body of water responds totally appropriately. It doesn't over-react or under-react. You throw in a pebble, it does pebble. Back to calm and balanced again. You throw in a boulder. It does it very dispassionately. It doesn't tense up whatever the rock is. It doesn't get all mad at the rock Back to calm and balanced again. Out of these metaphors from nature, Lesson number one is, &quot;Hey folks, Way, way, way beyond.&quot; Life is not static, folks. Or if there is, it means and matched myself to the dynamics The second lesson I've learned is: I need the ability to be able in, out, up, down, quickly. You know, in very few minutes and then take out the garbage, and then be dealing and not take one to the next, but be fully available for each thing Most people are taking Most people take home to work That's not &quot;mind like water&quot;. Here's what you are really after. You want the ability to be able exactly where you need it and not use your mind to be trying Big key! If you don't give appropriate attention it'll start to take more of your attention So, the weird, strange thing here is you actually have to use your mind So you have to apply a process It won't happen by itself. Key number one. Get it out of your head. Simple, but boy, is that a big habit Anything and everything that's So I'll challenge all of you: Keep a pad and pen with you, And don't have a thought twice. Little, big, personal, You don't have to do anything with it. Just capture anything that's going on, And I guarantee you, that thousands of people absolutely would guarantee they have a whole lot better sense and are more appropriately engaged not what they should be doing. That is just stage one. Stage two, which is necessary, because once you do stage one, on that list that still needs Most to-do lists are incomplete lists What you see on to-do lists are things dog, babysitter. Well, I understand you've got to do something about, but what exactly That's the second thing you'll need to do. It is to take those things you've and you need to make about what does the work involve. And there are two key questions you need &quot;What outcome am I committed to finish?&quot; so that you can define What's the project about the budget? And identify those; and then, &quot;What's the very next action step I need if I were to going to move on it?&quot; Outcome and action: What we're trying to accomplish? How do we allocate resources But you need to apply that if you want to be appropriately engaged with anything yanking The late great Peter Drucker, would tell everyone of us his knowledge your toughest work is He'd put it in broad terms, this is what is the work embedded in that? And getting very clear about it. I guarantee you that if you sat down and take at least a few things off What's the project? Write it down. What's the action step? Write it down. You will feel exponentially more Never seen an exception to that. Then, of course, but then you're going to be because you're going to look at all that-- By the way, most of you have And most of you have So, you're going to very quickly when you look at that immensity. Unless you start to put it all together. So, in all of that, You need the appropriate maps you need the maps and there are other maps What's my job? What are the things in my personal life I need to watch, and manage, That's another great map. So, you need to build maps of all of this, and see the whole &quot;gestalt&quot; so that then, you can make By the way, once you experience that, I've never had anybody make that list &quot;Oh! That reminds me!&quot;, and at least add three, or four, they needed to; they were already there but they were they had not identified them yet. So, I guarantee you those three things. I may have just jumped you and maybe reminded you That's OK. It doesn't take you long to get Very simple folks! Just write stuff down. Decide actions get yourself a map of all of that, so you can step back And then, basically, &quot;OK, here's the course You then launch the ship as well as on the long horizon And then, on some regular basis, &quot;OK, we need to take in new data, for the next leg of the journey.&quot; It's that simple. By the way, my girlfriend in that adventure she quickly became my wife, and for the last 22 years, lots of planned and unplanned adventures. So, my wish for all of you is, for all of those adventures and they're coming towards you, In order to take find your own ways Thanks for listening. (Applause)