Hello everyone, I'm Marco Sedde, owner of Yotvata restaurant in Rome in Cenci years I, together daughter, manage respecting the tradition of true Jewish-Roman cuisine. For Jewish food, meat It follows that are either milk and fish. Yotvata, our restaurant, is a kosher restaurant with milk and fish. In Yotvata restaurant, the cheeses used are produced by us within national dairies that adhere to our kosher standard. We produce all the best types of cheeses that we in the restaurant and that Today we are here to talk about a dish that is typical of Jewish-Roman cuisine and reigns supreme on all dishes: Artichokes alla Giudia was born like all traditional Jewish-Roman to optimize raw materials. Jews during the Ghetto period were forced to do end of the market. that were available greater availability within the ricotta, endive, Roman courgettes. of the Jewish tradition: cassola with ricotta, concia with courgette, anchovies with endive, First of all, by specifying the various types of artichokes. The best the famous Roman is also technically The seasonality of the Roman artichoke that is currently most easily found Ares artichoke, the Roman artichoke a bit. the year, we have the possibility of processing various from 'violetti' to even imported artichokes when those are not available, violet' from Normandy are artichokes that are often used inside the kitchen to always give a fresh The preparation is relatively simple. phase which is the the artichoke. depending on which you are going to clean, to cut it. It must be understood that the Roman artichoke a very closed artichoke, is better cut in a rose shape, precisely because its shape lend themselves to As you can see, he is taking off obviously the choke inside. This, from the fundamental. oxidizing, the artichoke water and lemon or water even those who use parsley stems. Now our chef Mina will show us how to cut a 'violetto'. We like to cut a 'violetto' artichoke that you have more leaves, once the tougher lends itself to being fried and French fry, a cookie, Also in this case the choke is removed. It is put in lemon and water A particular memory connected to artichokes alla Giudia is when my mother My father used to buy are important numbers for a single family, clean the artichokes and I remember this anecdote: my father and my mother always argued complained that she suitable for artichokes and to use a normal knife, artichokes must be cut with a particular knife called 'spelucchio', basically a hook knife the rose shape, and I still big fights, obviously playful, home, but in the end the goal was the same: to prepare more, as quickly as possible and cut the artichokes to ready to be eaten alla Giudia or even in other ways, but basically alla Giudia. A fundamental process for cooking artichokes is frying. The mainly The oil we prefer for frying is sunflower seed oil high oleic Frienn by Olitalia. This is a stable oil that can also be reused for frying several times, without exaggerating, but it is affect the flavor frying in general. Now let's move on to the pre-frying phase. We put Roman in the other basket we will We're placing them takes this pre-cooking After that, it is immersed at a temperature of 150degC. about 18/20 minutes, of the artichoke and soften. We placed these skimmers over the artichokes to hold them well pressed and immersed in oil, so that no part of the and can be cooked evenly across the entire surface on the stem side, the heart We can then remove it. can also be stored in the In the context of the optimization that Roman Jewish disposal, the artichoke also lent itself to use over time. Frying was also a system hygienic and sanitary Jewish people during particularly thriving and so they also tried to optimize when cooking foods, those foods that could be stored and kept for several days. Leave the artichokes to even 20 minutes have rested they will Now the peak moment for the artichoke: it is immersed in boiling oil at 180degC for 2-3 minutes, that crunchiness which is Look at how it opens up. The artichoke is ready. Let it drain for 30-40 seconds to remove after which it is transferred A little salt and the true artichoke alla Giudia. When the the kitchen calls, you have to run to the must be cooked version of the artichoke alla Giudia. I hope I was thorough enough. Yotvata restaurant in welcome to enjoy with us this typical dish of the which is the artichoke alla Giudia. Now I'll give the who will show us his I wish 'shalom ve lehitraot' to all the friends We're waiting for you here in Yotvata. Hi, I'm Angelo Troiani, the chef of Il Convivio restaurant in Rome, Navona square. tasted with your fantasy the artichoke Jewish quarter in Marco Sedde, instead inside Convivio for an all-round of the artichoke, a dish that I called in fact Strike Artichoke, recipes of the artichoke Roman culture: alla Romana, the artichoke artichoke alla Matticella, all in one dish. Let's start from the cleaning of the artichoke. The 'cimarolo' in Rome, Italian, that is, the season, the first the plant. First of all, I'm cleaning the stem, that is, I'm outside part of the the core, this is to the bitter part. Then I'm peeling the artichoke first leaves outside, but use these from the let's say about anything and Then with the knife, placing it vertically turn it as if I was peeling an apple, until I obtain a rose, a ball in the shape of an artichoke. Now after cleaning the artichokes, I'm placing all the waste in the oven as they are, I baked them at 180degC for about an hour and a half. The first process now, the first step is to prepare the artichoke alla Romana. stem, seasoning the pepper and placing it some oil. The oil must be olive oil is because if we then a medium fruity intense, we would exalt the bitter unbalanced flavor. to add a little water. This is because it allows the temperature clove of garlic about 15 minutes. alla Romana is a kind of oil cooking. So we'll start at the beginning oil, but at the end be completely evaporated. This is why at the beginning of cooking, I will keep the saucepan closed with the lid to give it a high temperature, a sort of short pressure cooking. a little to allow the steam to escape. The only difficulty where I need a bit of experience is to calculate to reach the end of cooking. This obviously tenderness of the artichoke. When cooking, I'm adding parsley It will take approximately 15 minutes, depending on the but still to understand to the end of cooking, you toothpick, that is, in the artichoke, it shouldn't it shouldn't get stuck. remove it very easily. At the end of cooking, I'm keeping one part of for the final half of the artichoke the herbs and garlic oil with a drop of water will be used to make a sort of pesto cream. I'm also adding two or three So, through a simple mixing gesture with the hand blender, cream which I will to enhance the flavor I now have alla matticella. Matticella is the kindling of the vine pruning that was used on trips out of town to cook the artichoke under the very fine wood, calorific. If you of the artichoke, let's say to burn. Once cooked, let's say burnt, I used them to make a This broth will cook about 2 hours have a very strong a part of the available and then by only adding a a drop of oil, I'm going to emulsify it, thus obtaining a cream with artichoke alla matticella, complete the dish. part, meaning I cooked the artichoke alla Romana first, in part, only the Giudia. How do we make it? Easy: I'll take a pan, add some high oleic sunflower high oleic oil because unlike As you can see, under the bottom of the pan I inserted a grill. This is so as not to let the otherwise they would quickly turn black, because the pot has a much higher temperature than the oil. By lifting it a bit, instead, I'll I need to obtain a bright I'm now checking it if it is golden and the right cooking point. I'm removing it from the oil and letting it drip for a moment to let it lose those few drops of oil that can go away and then the plating. I liked artichoke as it is, this reason I'm going to assemble it in the center, then I'm going to with the artichoke alla matticella cream. I'm placing the stem below it and I'm going to chain the that represents the Finally I'm also adding a little bit of alla Romana cream on the to create a trilogy of flavors. This is my tribute to the Roman tradition. It usually is very difficult to take and play with them something that makes a some kind of sense. I tried, if you want, try it yourself at home, we have shown them. And all that is left is to send you greetings staff and I hope to see you soon.