The year was 2006, and somewhere in Mexico's Chapo" Guzman had been delivered a gift- With a stick in his hands, El Chapo beat these As one witness later put it, the men were The men were then slung over ATV's and taken out his gun, made some derogatory comments and ordering their bodies to be burned. He said to one of his workers, "I don't That was El Chapo to a tee - heartless, relentless, Roughly thirty years prior in the 1980s, the was riding a bus in Colombia. That driver didn't see that the woman hadn't off, leading to her falling and dying. The "King of Coke" was upset by what had Velasquez, aka "Popeye", to kill the bus Speaking about the incident later Popeye said, I didn't feel anything." We're guessing the man who ordered the hit So, there you go, just two examples of how They both ran zero tolerance campaigns when They were cruel and unusual people, and while also see that they were quite different. Let's start with Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman stick with his nickname, El Chapo...that translates El Chapo was born on April 4, 1957, in a rural He was poor, dirt poor, and there were many His father made his income as a cattle rancher, to be in, so El Chapo used to sell oranges He dropped out of school at a young age and At 15 he started another side business, this a means to help out with family finances, Mexican cartels. It's what you might call a rags to riches Working in the fields earning two dollars industry was way more lucrative. Escobar has some surprising similarities in Born Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria on December Rionegro, which is about 45 minutes from Medellin His mother, Hermilda, was a school teacher just like El Chapo's. Though Escobar's early life wasn't quite He was also part of a big family and was one struggle as much financially. But young Pablo was always around narcotics, didn't take him long to realize the financial it was sold to Americans, who were quickly Back to El Chapo and his rise to power. First, he worked for a cartel when a number formed by one Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, The Godfather really got things organized Wall Street bankers partying for the next Guzman became a major player in the Sinaloa Palma liked El Chapo... he was trustworthy, Cross him or mess up his shipment, and bang When the Godfather was eventually arrested drug trade. Various cartels, including the Sinaloa cartel, coke into the booming US market. Even the DEA knows that when you take out violence and basically no interruption to So with the Godfather put away, what naturally The violence was incredibly brutal. People were getting sawn in half with chainsaws In 1995, when El Chapo's associate was arrested, Sinaloa cartel. He was just 38 years old. It was a meteoric rise from cattle farmer Soon his cartel would become the most powerful He had cops in his front pocket, local politicians his way out of prison. Escobar on the other hand, was involved in it was in his early twenties that he got into while working with a local mobster. He had a reputation for being a very violent He made a bigger name for himself when he laid off many poor workers. His family paid the ransom, but Pablo and Pablo soon had his eyes set on bigger profits He knew you could buy stacks of coca leaves the product to U.S. dealers who were seeing It was the 1970s...the time of the hippies disco music. LSD and mary jane said their goodbyes and There were no drug cartels back then, and he could make a fortune and make it fast. Cocaine was like the Louis Vuitton of drugs. You could take a cheap product and sell it At 26, Escobar had already banked $3 million unlike El Chapo he did it without having to He could have bought a big house with a swimming guys it's never enough. In the late 1990s, El Chapo was also moving He could produce the stuff without much hassle popular with Americans who liked to do a lot three days straight without sleeping. It was also very cheap, compared to coke. Another benefit for the cartel was the fact He could have his people make it in meth labs, He soon became the boss of bosses, and had He became the new Godfather and wielded great He was arrested and imprisoned, but broke That breakout apparently cost him $2.5 million, of bosses. But soon the peace pact the cartels had made thousands upon thousands of people were caught This included civilians, women and children, cartels. El Chapo somehow stayed on top, and it's by the DEA since he gave up a lot of other He was wanted in the U.S., but because he for a time. The violence didn't stop, and what happened wars the world has ever seen, with people Men were tortured, cut to pieces, beheaded, face was stitched onto a soccer ball and sent As for Escobar, his people were also extreme, as 4,000 people during their cocaine dealing They took out leading politicians, lawyers, candidate killing 107 people. Escobar's power was greater than anything He really was the King of Coke, whereas El pan. Escobar created the business of trafficking buying their cocaine or being paid to move Escobar was also seen as a kind of Robin Hood of cash to poor communities and built up infrastructure While the murder rate in Medellin was out Mexican cartel's league when it came to Sure, he blew up buildings and made Medellin He killed lawyers, and took out around 600 to what would later happen in Mexico. He had so much control he simply didn't of competing cartels. He was also a master at public relations, an unruly, bloodthirsty mob. It was simple with him. You take the money or you take a bullet. The deal he gave to officials was an offer - silver or lead, and it was a very real And the Colombian authorities had every right He could bribe, or take out anyone, no matter At one point Escobar was getting around 15 day. This worked out at something like $26 billion Forbes even put Escobar down as one of the of $30 billion. He truly was the king. El Chapo may have been successful but he was paled in comparison to Escobar's. Escobar was killed in 1993 at 44 years old. At the time of his death he had more money He owned properties all over the world. 25,000 Colombians mourned for their real life But did the drugs stop moving after Escobar's Of course not, they just started getting trafficked This cartel also had power in politics and agencies. One thing that did change is the crime rate a lot, but mostly because cocaine now comes The stuff is cheap and easy to grow, although That's one reason the traffickers don't It doesn't cost much to buy from the producers It's as simple as that. The risks are great, since you might get killed are too good not to do business. El Chapo wasn't killed like Escobar, but he was 56 years old. How much cash he had is up for debate. The U.S. has been looking for his money for Meanwhile, reports suggest it cost the U.S. cartel leader who was simply replaced in a The Sinaloa cartel is still as big as it ever being the Jalisco New Generation. The DEA is now spending more billions trying will only be replaced by a never-ending queue Cocaine use in the U.S. and in many parts as we speak so it's likely these men will Since El Chapo's arrest and the power vacuum had steadily increased and it hit an all time A report released by the Secretariat of Public in Mexico that year and in March 2020, the - 2,585. Why compare these two world famous drug lords? One reason is so you can see that the war and another reason is to show you that El He was replaced, and some other guy will probably He'll become the number one outlaw, the than him. As for Escobar, well, sure he's been replaced, the game. He was no flash in the pan...he was the very abuse in the USA and across the world. Now go watch this, "Hotel Escobar - The Or try this video, "How Insane is El Chapo's