- Welcome to &quot;Let the Quran Speak.&quot; I'm here with Rabbi David Mivasair. He's been a progressive but recently he's had and he's supportive of Rabbi David, it's an - Thank you, I really and talk with the people. - Rabbi, I wanted to ask You know, what you've told me before is that you were a Zionist - [Safiyyah] Yep. - And then something So what went through your head and how did you get to okay, I wanna support in their fight for peace and justice? - Yeah, I appreciate the question. - (chuckles) A hard question. - Yeah, I just wanna say, I don't think it's such a clear dichotomy between one and the other. And for me, when you say, oh, it's a progressive what that means is always, I've been aware of the plight of the Palestinian people and their oppression and their suffering and what Israel has done to them. And what that means for me is from the very beginning when I was a teenager and started to get interested and involved with Israel, part of it for me was help Me participate as a Jewish person in Israel in a way that for the Palestinians, I saw that from the very beginning. I've always wanted to but more recently I've realized it's like incompatible, it's incongruous, you can't have a Jewish state with equality, freedom, safety, justice for Palestinians, it can't be. - So was there a specific event that led to that kind of thinking? Or was it like over time you sort of little cognitive shifts that took place that suddenly boom, you know, your mind changed? - In my experience, I first went to Israel as a 19-year-old American, Jew, young man, trying to find coming to a place where I felt like, whoa, you know, like Israel, that's my people's country. So the very first week, maybe the second or third I was walking down a street that's called Jaffa Street. It goes from the Jaffa Gate to Jaffa, and there's nice old And there was a little boy, maybe six or seven-year-old boy, bleeding from his hand, he must have cut his bleeding and crying. And there was two policemen there. So I went to the boy and I said, you know, &quot;come with me.&quot; And I took him to the policeman and I said to the policeman in Hebrew, &quot;Help, help this boy.&quot; And they said to me, &quot;What are you talking about? He is an Arab, you know, So that was my first experience, and I'm like, whoa, wait a minute, this is not okay. And I had experience after experience after experience like that for me, I would say 30 or 40 years before I could like, break through the cognitive dissonance between wanting Israel to be a good place and the way the Jews are running that country be a good thing, I wanna believe that. And the facts right before And in my brain, I couldn't like, put the two together, and you asked me was there a specific incident, so seriously when the Mavi Marmara, which was a ship from Turkey, sailed with six other ships in Gaza, seriously, things like school notebooks, and pencils, and wheelchairs, and crutches, and the Israelis attacked and murdered a number of people. And when I saw that, I just thought like, I can't play this game anymore. I just have to like, rip off in a way, like the mask or the cover that I've been wearing in a sense, like having a place at the goals that I need to serve, and I can't self-censor. And the very next morning, seriously, the very, I mean, that happened that night where I was, and the very next morning I went out to a huge demonstration in Vancouver where I was living. I dress the way I'm dressing now, so it's like kind of, you know, looked like a rabbi, not just a guy with a t-shirt and shorts. And I was interviewed like now, and I really spoke like clear, and that actually really ended my being tolerated in those circles of things like the Jewish Federation and CIJA, you know, they never really like kicked me out until then. But it, for me, it was very liberating. If I have any regrets, it's that I didn't do it sooner. And I just wanna say, I think a lot of Jewish Probably everyone in the world wants to think if they identify whatever it is, Muslims, or anybody, they're good and we're doing good things. And if we're not doing good things, it's because, oh, we're making a mistake or we don't quite get it right, but really we're good, aren't we? You wanna believe that, and to kinda give that up is difficult. - I can see that it must have been a real emotional struggle for you. Not just an intellectual struggle, but even now, right? - Even now, even now when - Yes, so how has the responded to you? - So that's actually really sad. When you say mainstream Jewish community, you're talking about, I'll say like the world of synagogues and the major Jewish organizations, or each city in Canada has a thing called the Jewish Federation. They're all linked by an which stands for the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs. I am persona non grata, meaning basically like excommunicated. - How do you feel about that? - It's very hurtful, it's my community. If I want to pray with a group of Jews in a synagogue and hear the Torah read and sing the songs that I don't have a place where I can go and be comfortable with that, you know? And it's very sad, and more than my own personal experiences, it's very sad for me that the dominant institutions of Jewish people are so firmly entrenched I feel like they're in and they won't let go of it, you know? And they're just kind of and more and more. And actually, I think more and more and more Jewish people like me are realizing this is And I hear from them. - Okay. - I talked at McMaster with an Imam, with a Sheikh, - Imam Tahir. - Right, Sheikh Imam Tahir. There were two Jewish students there, they're both like who grew up in Toronto, they came to me and they They don't feel comfortable going to the place where they grew up, they feel very isolated, they're very like, kind of, what can we do Jewishly, you know, and... - So what'd you tell them? What's your advice to - I had two things. One, join us, I'm part of an organization called Independent Jewish Voices, which is really focused on justice and equality for Palestinians. And we as Jews being Independent Jewish Voices, it's not a religious organization, that's not what we do. But I said to those, there were two young women, you know, just, I said, come to my house for dinner on Shabbat. You know, like, we can be together and that will grow. - So Rabbi, you think it's gonna grow, like, I mean, I feel like I'm seeing the protests that are happening, I saw that many Jews were protesting at, in New York at the Central Station, right? Grand Central Station, right? - Yeah. - They were also at Staten Island, Staten Island, they've and they've been doing it, you know, I'm sure in many other I have been involved in interfaith work for quite a long time as well. I'm wondering where my Jewish friends are, because to be honest, many of them have not and they know that my family, my husband's family is from Gaza and they're suffering right now. So I'm wondering how the Jewish community, the mainstream Jewish - Yeah, no, you expressed that well. - And if they are kind as you're suggesting, right? - I think so many individual - [Safiyyah] Okay. - A bit like the way I described myself, say 10 or 15 years ago. You see what's going on, you said you see these images, and it's so hard to reconcile that with what you wanna believe. And it's like, it's so hard to like tip the balance, across the threshold and actually say like, no, what Israel's doing is wrong. And I can't support that, I have to do something about that, I would say even more with those connections, I have a greater responsibility I have to do something. To get to that point is so difficult. And, you know, just something going through my mind right now, I want to say out loud, so much of what I do is informed by what I know about the Holocaust. And there's so many in Germany or in Poland or whatever in the 1930s or early 1940s. They had neighbors, they had colleagues, they had people they would people that they, the children went to each other's birthday parties or like, you know, and when the Nazis came and things started getting bad, those people like backed off from them and stopped talking to them. And, you know, when their to school anymore, or when a man, or possibly a woman who was a doctor wasn't People didn't come to them and say, oh, I'm so sorry this is happening, how can I support you? So there's a tendency among maybe almost everyone to get along, not rock the boat, you know? So- - Not get in trouble, right? - Yeah, and I think more and more Jewish people You know, they're, there are people who might have, there are people I know who experienced what I just described, like say, okay, I went to Israel and the very first week I was there, I saw two policemen, like just, you know, be so disrespectful it was bleeding because he is Palestinian. And I gave up on Israel, I went back home, and I But not me, I stayed metaphorically, and I stayed there for So I think everybody has - Everyone has a journey, yeah. So rabbi, how would, like, let's say me if I wanted to engage with a member of the Jewish community and share how I feel and how I understand what's going on between Israel and Gaza right now, and just generally the Palestinian people, what is the best way to engage with them? Because right now there's a, it's very heated, right? - It is. - And I feel like Palestinians, Arabs, Muslims are concerned that they will be seen So how do, what's the best way to interact in this situation? - It's really difficult. First, I wanna say it's not, it's not only Muslims, and Many, many, many people who don't have that background have the same dilemma, don't know how to, like, engage with people that are feeling very differently. And the same thing is I don't have a good answer. And just acknowledge and I don't know, I could you could probably say the - Yes. - What, you know, I could say things like, try, you just said don't antagonize, like maybe just try to listen, or I don't know what, I think I hear things from other Jewish people and supporters of Israel I just said, I think they're indoctrinated, so much stuff is being it's just misinformation, disinformation, it's intentional. There's a massive, I can say like a propaganda machine that's trying to push a certain narrative that more and more people don't accept, people see through it, they know it's not true, but still other people &quot;Israel has a right to defend itself.&quot; Well, actually, no, you know, a settler colonial society that exists because it destroyed their houses, kicked them out, and still doing that continually for more than 75 years a right to defend itself. That doesn't mean that individual people, I'm saying individual Israeli Jews should not be harmed but the state actually, I don't believe it has a And I'm just using that as an example of something that's or people just say it. - Well, all the political leaders have said it over and over, over. - They're all wrong. - [Safiyyah] Over the past several weeks. - And it needs to be contradicted. There's so many things like that, all the time you hear claims about Israeli women being raped by members of Hamas, there's never one example, like I can say very Even, you know, there have a mother and daughter maybe two weeks ago, two elderly women about a week ago. All four of them talk very comfortably and freely about how they were fed, nobody harassed them. - I'm glad you're talking about that. - [David] I mean, there's so many. - Because mainstream media is not telling these stories. - Not only that, but even in Israel, they have been shut down, you know? And their government is what they say about their And there was a woman who survived the attack on Kibbutz Be'eri, her first name was Yasmin, I forgot her last name, she survived it. And she said, she is the first one who said that the people around the Jews, the Israeli Jews around were killed by Israeli fire. The Israelis were gonna free them from the Hamas fighters and killed them. And she said there was a Hamas guy like captured her and said to her in Hebrew, &quot;Don't worry, we're not gonna hurt you, we just wanna take you as a hostage.&quot; And nobody hurt her, and then she escaped, she said that in Hebrew, it was in the Israeli media. I've seen clips of her talking, I understand Hebrew, that's what she said. But the story is how brutal, and savage, and uncivilized, and dangerous, and like, you know, civilization needs to defeat them. - Yeah, one of the things that is very prevalent of Palestinians and in particular, people who live in Gaza. And I know that, Rabbi, you have personal contacts with people in Gaza. Can you speak a little bit about how you've developed those relationships and where they are now? - Lemme just, I just want to give some background for me. So again, seriously, in my life, I have heard so many people talk about during the Holocaust, they were in a ghetto, they were in a concentration camp, people around them are dying, and people would say, &quot;Oh, if only someone somewhere what was happening to us,&quot; you know? Or after the camps were liberated, they could find like little - Yeah. - You know, if only someone knew, and I have that in my mind. So it happened that a few years ago, some people in Gaza found me on Facebook, I'm pretty public, my thing is up there, you can see me, you see what I'm posting. And I thought, &quot;Sure, I'll answer them. You know, I'll engage with them, I'll have like a human relationship with someone there in Gaza. I'm in Canada, I'll connect with them.&quot; And there was one man in They rolled back and forth, told me about his children, told me about things. At that time, he had had a very good, steady job and he lost his job, he had a little, I'd say a conflict with the government in Gaza. And after maybe two or three months of just kind of chatting, he actually said to me, he's, like, ashamed to say this, but he is having difficulty and could I possibly help him? And I thought, &quot;Oh, of course. like, like of course.&quot; And I sent him $50 and he was like, &quot;Oh my God, thank you so much.&quot; You know, I'll just say that developed other people were like writing to me, they don't know each other, but I also started feeling like, well I should answer them, and developed like just a So like, I actually started I created a GoFundMe. - Yes, I noticed that on - I put on my Facebook page like, &quot;Whoa, there's this, like, people in Gaza need help and we can get it to them.&quot; We can use Western Union, even now, even this week, I sent $2,000 to somebody it took them 11 days before the Western Union office opened, 'cause it's getting bombed, the person who needed to open it, like got there, they had electricity, they had some cash in the drawer, and this person got the $2,000, we can do that. You know, so I have relationships now with maybe 10 or 12 people. And I know each of them are, they're helping people around them, they're not just like hoarding or keeping it for themselves, and they're amazing people. I just wanna say I do a lot politically, you know, that I'm like I was one of the more than 300 Jews who were in the U.S. Capitol and got arrested on October 18th. I lobby, I literally go to Ottawa, you know, I do all the political stuff. I don't see a lot of outcomes - Yes. - I have a faith, I mean, I seriously have a faith that it's all gonna add up one day, we'll tip the balance, we need to keep doing all But last time I was in Palestine, I saw people that just, they need help, you know? And I thought if I can send $50 and this man can feed I gotta do that, you know? So I'm doing- - That says something about you, you put your money where your mouth is, you know, you just- - Well my money, and even more, I put other people's money. - [Safiyyah] Exactly. - You know, I actually so I know what's going on, coming in and going out. I have raised and sent about $50,000, but I'm just making a point about something that I actually And there's such a need, there's a dire, immediate specific need, and if you help in that way, there's like absolutely you know it, you know it. - Rabbi, I wanna ask you, how has your faith motivated you to take action on Palestine? - Well one thing is simply having faith. You know, like. - It gives you hope, right? - Like faith, hope, this is not gonna go on forever. This whole world is created to be better than it is, you know, I could say God or and put humans in it, the intention wasn't for us to live the way we are now. We're on a path toward a better way, and it's a multi-millennial struggle. You know, we can read our prophets that, you know, from 3,000 years ago saying the same things that we could say today. You know, so having faith is one thing, like don't give up, find what you can do, and just know that everything, it's contributing to making a difference. And my specific Jewish faith, I mean the Jewish religion, it teaches us that what's It's our deeds, our acts. It's actually not our beliefs. It's a beautiful line in the Torah that I learned when I was a kid, you know, the B'nai Israel, you know, the children of Israel are standing in Mount Sinai and hearing, they're hearing God speak, and what they said back (David speaking foreign language) &quot;We will do and we will listen.&quot; And that's kind of the priority in the Jewish religion. If God tells us to do something, do it. And all the philosophy and all the, you know, all the beliefs, we can discuss that later, but there's so much that we and my faith informs me, and I feel like it just I have to do it. You know, when God spoke to Moses, God used the word, so one of them is that means &quot;Justice, And the other one is &quot;Seek peace and pursue it.&quot; So our rabbis in ancient times, like 2,000 years ago, they said every commandment you do it when you have But peace and justice, you have to get up out you have to go out there and you have to pursue it. And these are things that come from my faith tradition that inform me and gives me strength and enables me to keep Another teaching that I love from a rabbi who lived about 2,000 years ago, he said, (speaks foreign language) which means, &quot;It is not your obligation to complete the task, but neither are you And I understand that to mean maybe, like, none of us can actually accomplish what we have to do here, but we have to try and do what we can. And actually part of that - [Safiyyah] Yes. - I'm a rabbi, you're a Muslim leader and teacher in some ways a media person. You do what you can do, I'll do what I can do, and we have to do those things even if we can't complete the task. - If you could give one message to mainstream Jewish leaders, what would you say to them right now? - [David] Oh my God. - In this situation where we're watching things unfold in Gaza and, you know, watching in horror, I guess. - Well, I would try to say something like, put the ethic before the ethnic to step back from your rightful and passionate loyalty to Jewish people and Jewish institutions. Step back from that, just set it aside for a minute and try to look at the situation in a bit of a detached way, see what you see, and then go back into it and think what you can - We'll leave it at that, Rabbi, thank you so much for joining me, it was a very insightful, I learned so much and hopefully, we'll have you back here again. - Well, thank you, thank you very much. (both speaking in foreign language) - We have some exciting - As you know, &quot;Let the Quran Speak&quot; has been on TV screens and social media for 22 years. - We've been reaching people all around the world spreading positivity in good and helping people experience and the accomplishments of Muslims. - We've been shooting in this very space for the past two decades. - And now with the help of Allah, we're about to get the - If you like what we're doing, you're gonna love Muslim - Because it's the next step up. - Think new TV shows, podcasts, social media content, and films. - It will have new talent, more youth, and a lot more space and resources to do what we love, spread the message of Allah. - Our Muslim Media Hub costs $2.4 million. - And for that, we need to raise $300,000. Please give whatever you can, every dollar counts. - It's our collective responsibility to share the message of Islam with our fellow human beings. Please help establish Muslim Media Hub so we can do this. - It's a sadaqah jariyah, something that will to the Muslim community - Thank you, and may Allah bless you and your loved ones today and always. (Shabir speaking in foreign language)