(waves crashing) - [Narrator] A remote A place forgotten by time. Here in one of the last a mysterious parade of Most are pregnant females What has drawn them here? And where are they going? Researchers have come to to track these dinosaurs of the sea. (tense drumming music) To follow them wherever they on a journey of discovery Real of giant sharks. Jutting out from the sea at the far northern end of is an ancient crumbling And just to it's south, a A group of scientists of the Galapagos National In the swirling currents below, something else is slowly approaching. It's a whale shark, the largest fish ever to have lived. It's part of a steady that passes by Darwin Island. This team is hoping to find out what draws them to this And where are they going? They wait on a rocky reef. Finally, a massive silhouette appears. At about 12 meters in length, this female is almost fully grown. The team rises up to meet her. They'll attach satellite tracking devices, anchoring them in the In his log, team leader Johnathan Green describes the encounter. - [Jonathan] The shark So at this point I swim Once in front, I turn and let the current carry me the full length Her colossal size is apparent as her body slides by. (relaxing music) The whale shark continues seemingly unaware of the procedures going on around her. - [Narrator] Whenever her tags will relay her location via satellite to the scientists. Ranger as this whale shark is called, is now part of one of the of marine animal For several weeks she stayed just north of the Galapagos Islands, then she headed south and over 1000 kilometers away. Ranger's is not the documented by this team. Take the case of Jaws, With tag in place, Jaws's out into the rugged undersea terrain of the Galapagos Rift Zone. She appeared to be going out to sea, instead she turned around to the Galapagos Islands. Like Ranger, she too went Then there's Kimberley, a mere teenager at five meters in length. She arrived at Darwin Island with Jaws and followed her to the west. Kimberly split off, veering to the south. Her route took her to another rugged zone known as the East Pacific Rise. Along the way, Kimberly in a pattern probably At a point 3500 kilometers the transmitions showed and was floating on the surface. Another creature could have bitten it off. She may have removed it herself by rubbing off against rocks. Or she might have been caught Where were these sharks headed? Were they following familiar routes? Or possible shifts in water temperatures? Or the availability of food? These are questions that of Johnathan Green, a who has worked in the - For me one of the main is that as a child I was very and this is a real life Because we've got a 60, in terms of the species. Sharks have been around for so they're definitely They roam around our earth and we know absolutely nothing about them. How can it be that we know more about mice or about the ant than we - [Narrator] Whale sharks belong who's bones are made from cartridge. And do a subclass that The Elasmobranchs. Of at least 500 species alive today, the ground sharks are most common, including hammerheads and Whale sharks belong to called the Carpet Sharks. They're known for the of their fins and for a near their nostrils and These may be sensors, that dwelled on murky sea bottoms. At full size, a whale shark and 30 tons. Over a lifetime that can last 70 years, these giants roam the oceans, scooping up a diet of Struck by how little was known Johnathan helped spearhead an effort to get basic data. He and other dive guides photographed their unique identifying markings, the pattern of spots They submitted these fingerprints to an international database. In time, Johnathan enlisted scientists from the Galapagos National Park, the Charles Darwin Foundation and the Marine Animal Tracking Program at the University of California at Davis, in an ambitious project of whale sharks that Most attempts to track them have begun in places where they come together in large numbers. Like the Sea of Cortez off Here, billions of tiny hatch at once, turning That draws dozens of whale You can often see them feeding vertically to get at the dense food concentrations. Their arrival is a welcome which use them as shields. Wish a bands of Skipjack Tuna nearby, the school gets as close as The predators keep their distance. This is only one of many You can find them off the coast of Belize where they feed on the eggs of Snapperfish that spawn here in Spring. Or you can find them off the coast of Western Australia where just after the full - And most of the studies have been focused of aggregation sites where they come together to feed. And those are mainly smaller individuals, they're mainly males and we have almost a unique situation here where we have a large number Nothing is really known about how they mate, where they mate. So there are a lot of questions that still need to be answered out here. - [Narrator] The answers could in the battle in preserve Whale sharks have long been for their liver oil, used as Known as Tofu Sharks, by fishing fleets for their And for fins that can fetch Shark fin soup is a staple in China. This custom is believed to be responsible for millions of sharks killed each year. Whale shark fins are in demand. Not so much for soup, as for bold displays designed into stores or customers into restaurants. Whale sharks are now under the protection of the Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species, or CITES. And the Convention of Migratory Species. There is a growing especially in countries millions of dollars each year to swim with these gentle giants. The docile nature of whale sharks is what allows the Galapagos Then to clip DNA samples from fins or place satellite tracking But if startled, a whale shark is capable of moving swiftly out of reach. At full size, a whale shark is powerful and potentially dangerous. If the approach is not just right or the tag inserted too deeply, the response can be violent. In the first of three Johnathan Green and his team manage to tag 14 whale sharks. To get reliable results, twice that number. So they are making the on a small but trusty expedition boat, the Queen Mabel. It's the heart of the cool season and the boat is carried generated by a current the flows from Antarctica up the On his journey to the Galapagos Islands, Charles Darwin noted the of the surrounding water brought here by the Great Southern Polar Current. (poignant music) For thousands of humpback it offers a free ride north off Antarctica. The Humboldt Current is many of the unique creatures that Darwin observed on these islands. From the mainland, giant washed into the sea by storms. The current carried them across the thousands kilometers of ocean to reach the Galapagos. They gradually dispersed each one a world unto itself. Down through the generations, the tortoises adapted to and developed differences, (waves splashing) Iguanas most likely arrived Once here, they adapted to feeding within intertidal zones. It's in the sea that the Humboldt Current has had it's greatest impact. You can see it's fertile wake in a satellite image tracking chlorophyll, a tracer for plankton blooms. In combination with it causes deep, nutrient rich water to well up along the South American coast, turning it into one of the Rising up onto the Galapagos Plateau, the Humboldt mixes with Cromwell Current surging And with warmer currents That combination sets off (electronic pulsing music) Manta rays arrive to sift for microscopic plankton. When conditions are right, sardines, anchovies, fill the seas. That can attract legions of striped marlin from around the region and beyond. Watching for a school to these swift predators dart up from below. The school closes ranks, Sea lions join the attack. The school evades them by But as fatigue finally sets in, the predators move in Moving through these fertile waters, riding the north bound current, a mysterious line of whale sharks is headed for a tiny remote What draws them here? That's the question this as they too arrive at Darwin Island. - [Johnathan] The blue and the ocean reflects gun metal gray. The morning is spent removing the old leaders and replacing them with steel wire. We then paint them with and hang them to dry in the aft. The guns are ready, - [Narrator] Boarding the team sets out for the (gentle xylophone music) (water splashing) Their strategy is simple, If no whale sharks pass by, they'll swim out into the current to search for them in open water. - [Johnathan] After 30 we head out to the blue and almost immediately spot Clear markings, probably young. She's pregnant and I'm able to get along side and shoot the dart through the dorsal fin about two thirds of the way The dart goes all the way of cartilage. - [Narrator] Then the that can only deepen the Another female suddenly appears. It converges on the first. Then gives it a shove with it's snout. Was this a show of strength? Or some other signal just between sharks? Their two paths diverge into the deep. (splashing water) The expedition is off to a great start, at least that's how it - [Johnathan] The current but it is fluctuating. Sea surface temperature still Big schools of hammerheads pass by, out in the blue and down deep below us. We do a shallow dive before lunch. Skipjack tuna are feeding Bright streams of quicksilver with sharks. (splashing) Late afternoon, we photograph and the light catches the spray The arch appears to capture like a magnifying glass, into a single spotlight of white and gold. Quite ethereal, but then so is - [Narrator] Day three in the currents that swirl around Darwin. - One two three go. (splashing and bubbling) - [Narrator] The to the south. The hammerheads are now schooling much closer to the reef. The whale sharks seem to - Conditions are far from optimum as the current has swung Ending the dive with a drift, we swim through a tornado of jacks. And in less than three minutes are being sucked in behind the arch. Time to surface quickly before we get taken over the platform and into the maelstrom of crashing waves. We find huge variations in currents daily. You can have very low first thing in the morning, By midday you've got a What we've had here is not only a complete change in direction, but the strength seems This morning when we jumped in we had something probably and that simply becomes not only unworkable, but dangerous because of the fact that that may get swept away from the area that we're working in and taken beyond. - [Narrator] The next day, Johnathan is eager to know are on securely. - Do you have any data - [Narrator] He calls Alex Hearn who is monitoring the satellite signals from the University of - Conditions are not too good, we've got a southerly current. We put the two tags on, but we just need to know or if you have any data that might show what they're doing? If the tags are still on yeah. Okay you do? One zero seven? Okay fantastic. Fantastic. - [Narrator] One of the tagged sharks has surfaced 40 kilometers It's following the same route taken by Jaws and Kimberly. Are these sharks driven by the Humboldt Current? Or are they pursuing Consider their response to As deep currents hit the island, they carry a flood of As a result, the rocky are enveloped by what one biologist called a great walls of mouths. Everything from microscopic zooplankton to schools of fish. Moving through them are and jacks. Along with those giant filter And yet, even as they of small fish and dense plankton, they keep their mouths shut tight. There must be another - We know that they're coming but it's gotta be that we see literally in an area like the Darwin and we don't see Whale in the Galapagos Archipelagos. So they're coming to Darwin's Arch for a specific reason. I still think that the whale sharks are coming here for birthing. One thing that just about all have in common is that they're pregnant, they seem to be in an and so we think that they're probably birthing down at depth. - There is this steady trickle Why aren't they all Are they coming when they're I suspect that there's an internal clock that's telling them it's and then out to wherever it - [Narrator] If not in the Darwin Island, then perhaps out in the Galapagos This region took shape when titanic sections of the earth's crust began pulling apart. The undersea terrain is lined and hydrothermal vents of deep ocean creatures. The nooks and crannies of the ocean bottom could offer myriad safe havens for infant whale sharks to grow. Where and when the females give birth is just one of the mysteries A single pregnant female offered some remarkable clues. Scientists move in quickly They found that she was They represented all stages of development from tiny embryos to That's not all. Genetic tests showed that was fathered by the same male. The female had been able with this male by storing up his semen, then using it over time This may be an adaptation to lives spent traveling One of the longest documented was made by a mature She was tagged off in the year 2007 by Mote Marine Lab and (poignant piano music) They watched as she headed then turned south into the Caribbean. Past Jamaica, she turned and swam straight Moving out to the middle of the Atlantic, Rio Lady crossed the equator. That's where her tagged After a journey of more But that wasn't the end of Rio Lady. Four years later, back off the Yucatan. Identifying her by her spots. She had returned as part gathering of whale sharks. With hundreds arriving to feed on eggs spawned by a type of tuna. If Rio Lady's story is any indication, whale sharks swim with a purpose. With clear routes and destinations. How do they navigate the featureless and murky depths of the ocean, to reach places like the The answer may lie in The scalloped hammerhead. For the last decade, Alex Hearn from the University has been spearheading an effort to track the movement of throughout the region. It's part of a much larger effort by the Galapagos National Park to understand the role these islands play in the survival of This team's goal is to find out where various shark populations go. What roues they use. And how far they travel. (splashing) The study centers on a set up all around the Archipelago in conjunction with the Placed in shallow water, high frequency beeps emitted by tags that have been placed on the sharks. Attaching a tag to a The noise from scuba tanks so team members must free The object? To jab the tag into the The tags usually fall The data shows that throughout the region, they only where strong south of Darwin and nearby Wolf Island. It's a remarkable sight, considering that these strange creatures were practically fished out Their population surged again, with protections offered by established in 1998. Since then, Darwin and Wolf Islands have become a mecca for divers who come from all over the Hammerheads are among the few sharks that must always swim through their gills. Facing into the current offers them a period of rest. The warm surface waters may While the sharks are here, they can swing in close to the rocks where king angel fish come out At times, larger ocean A sea turtle draws the who prize it's rough shell (playful percussive music) After a day spent at the reef, the hammerheads peel off where they use their acute senses to hunt. How do they find their way back to Darwin, through the featureless and murky depths? Sea turtles along with and whales, are thought by reading the alignment If sharks possess their own it's probably related to sensory abilities that have allowed them to thrive all these millions of years. The snouts of most sharks are dotted with specialized organs that pick up electrical impulses given off by the heartbeats of Research shows that hammerheads may use this electrical mastery to read magnetic signals given that lead like roads and other landmarks strewn Whale sharks may be But that doesn't mean that Day five. The team spreads out on the rocks to increase the chances With none in sight, they move out into the blue and drift. Toward the end of the a whale shark finally appears. But it's about 40 meters down. It will take considerable and their air is already running low. With few other sharks around, Johnathan decides to take the risk - [Johnathan] I see her. Deeper than where I am. A few more kicks is all it would take. The next few seconds are a blur. I see her dorsal fin is bent over, but still go for a fin shot. - [Narrator] The shot at the base of the fin. Johnathan signals a team But there's just not enough time. As the shark swims off into the deep they must rise up slowly, to expel the excess nitrogen that builds up in diver's bodies at depth. It can lead to a life known as the bends. But several divers including Johnathan do not have enough air to Fortunately, team mates Day six, no whale sharks in sight. To widen their search, the team tries snorkeling out in the blue. (water sloshing) - [Johnathan] Three dives punctuated by a snorkel in deep water, but there was nothing. Swam with dolphins though, so the day has not been (abstract fast string music) - [Narrator] Even a taken throughout the day fails The current has now picked up speed. The team struggles to hold onto the reef. The end of this expedition Finally on day eight, with only three more days of diving left, there is a subtle shift in (splashing) The southbound current has slowed. - [Johnathan] Dropping Galapagos sharks are hugging the rocks, Silky's patrolling the blue. And yes swimming gently along the wall, a small, approximately - [Narrator] This one is too small to tag, but it could be a sign that By afternoon, the north Cesar Pena Errera from the spots a large whale shark approaching and signals the others. Eduardo Espinoza, a scientist with the and a seasoned shark tagger is on it. But the shark is racing away. He struggles to catch up. His shot is off, the tag Another set back. The sharks may be back, but the cables that hold the Later onto the Queen Mabel, Moab Vea Gomez, a crew member, used by fisherman to secure Because some of the shots the whale shark's skin, they give the air guns (gasping) Day nine. In his log, Johnathan hangs in the balance. But that it may not be in his power to tip it in their direction. - [Johnathan] Hanging at 25 meters, I see a dark form above and clearly the outline of a shark. I head out to swim under on the left flank. (tense string music) The shot will be easier from the right so exchanging sides, I move forward and the shot goes in just before and to the right of the dorsal fin. The harpoon slides back out and the tag 108, 103, glides off to an unknown destination. This time it's the beginning of the dive and Johnathan has enough air - [Johnathan] I crawl and just lie there for about 10 minutes as the hammerheads just stream by. Their silver and bronze in the midday light, like celestial bodies Far too beautiful to I wish i could exchange But instead capture the image - [Narrator] It's the final (mysterious music) Eduardo Espinoza sees a shark that they'll come to know as Margherita. Based on her size, 12 meters long, Margherita is 30 to 40 yeas old and a survivor judging or propellor marks on her lower abdomen. Later on, Johnathan finds Identifying her by her tag number. Here's an opportunity With the current sweeping him away, he descends to the rocks below. - [Johnathan] She's barely I drop back, then use I float up, then pass below her. Checking her huge belly Nothing I can detect, but then this is hardly - [Narrator] If a newborn several jacks are there The cool season is now drawing to close. On land, the turbulence of mating season is overtaking the colonies The big males keep a and on the other sires Out at sea, the water is getting warmer as the Humboldt Current push south. This is the time when head back south to summer With less prey in the Jacks, Tuna and other So do the crowds of sharks. Including the whale sharks. Margherita, the shark or propellor marks headed north. She wandered about for a month, She'll be easy to recognize on a future trip to Darwin's arch. Most likely, she headed that still ahd their tags on. Including Jaws. A shark they called Sin Nombre. George the only male in the group. And Carla. They all went to a region lined with steep ridges. As the chlorophyll data shows, these are some of the most Deep nutrient rich currents and sea life is abundant year round. If the female sharks are perhaps this is where they As well as the food supply that will sustain them on their way back to the The data included a Like Ranger who was on her way down the coast of South America when her tag stopped transmitting. And Kimberly, the teenager in the mid Pacific. When the study began, about the parade of whale Darwin Island. More years of research just how widely they travel. Where they go to give birth. And what is it that draws to this narrow rocky reef? Darwin Island was born in the formation of around three and a half million years ago. That's recent compared to that whale sharks have plied the oceans. As we search for fleeting and history, we marvel at their return to this realm of giant sharks. (relaxing ethereal music)