On the 3rd of May 2021, I uploaded a video to to the frame for the world record in This is The First ollymuirs, then dha, then Chromo, then all managed to beat this flash game in exactly Made up of 30 identical-looking stages, has a gate in stage 25 that only opens every had managed to achieve the 2:00 cycle and meaning that every single runner was tied to the fixed acceleration platforming ahead, each runner leading to the five way record tie. There were in a run, most just barely managing to squeeze but these five were the only ones that had likely time to be saved off this record, there were only mechanic to shave off a couple of frames in the to make it to the gate at the 1:50 cycle. There saved with perfect execution like Stage 13's "Left However, with the top runners at most having the stage 25 gate, it was believed by most that execution would be able to achieve it. If the it would almost certainly be because of a new time while people continued to look for time saves and the 2:24.675 tie would further show its might. On June 30th, 2021, the insane 5-way tie in This for the record. Kriptopolis and AnAverageArceus and the message that the tie was completely Speedrunners had likely entered the last five times, and they were just unable to do any better. easily practice certain levels in the game, there whether this was a certainty or not. Thankfully had created tons of useful tools for games in the that allowed any stage in the game to be entered creation of this hack was quite difficult since Action Script 3 programming language that the Red Action Script 2, but this hack was eventually paused and frame advanced through, effectively in the game to be created. Many refinements in but stages 26-30, the ones that actually mattered completely unimproved. However, on October On that day, speedrunner Kriptopolis, uploaded a video showing frame-advanced gameplay was completed in 2.025 seconds. Normally, taking at the start takes 2.075 seconds; two frames noticed that the elephant actually moves slightly By simply incorporating a tiny, precise jump hitting the ceiling, it was possible to since this is just stage 3, way before the the gimmicks in stages 26 and 27, a falsely closed place the elephant on the exact same path as save into both stages, the best possible time in In a mad dash to try and shatter the tie, new and started pouring in attempts. Dha, who had tied the 2:24.650, one of the four possible frames and 24 days, Ollymuir's unbreakable time had days later with a 2:24.625, and dha reclaimed the appearing to be just one frame off the new of opportunity left wide open, someone needed to October 6th, 2021, AnAverageArceus, the last Arceus was thrilled with the run that he that it was "Now time to get 2:24.550." You see, found a way to get through the gate in stage 25 bounce after taking a fall from the very top dha was actually able to pull this off but he realized that performing this strat the pipe at the start of the next stage, making it Therefore, Arceus had indeed maxed out titol However, the .575 goal post would be successfully discovery. In my first This is The Only Level absent of any acceleration while moving left and the game had been possibly maxed out by so many overlooked is that This is The Only Level actually vertical acceleration due to gravity. Keeping jumping at the front of the middle platform the elephant would reach the ground below faster the right button to be released for a few frames, was moving considerably faster downward on the it ultimately saved up to two frames. It was and 30, moving the theoretical maximum all the difficulty of the strategy, the zoomed in camera 30, it was only really feasible to perform the sights set upon the record, dha knew what he had He had to hit this strategy at the very end of 2:24.550. It was one frame for a single button jump run, He just had gotten the "One Frame to rule them that is still where the record stands today. When I started researching for this video back ambiguity as to whether the 1:50 cycle in not. Multiple inaccuracies in how the and the spreadsheet that kept track of the best advancing was found to have several math errors. there was only one possible solution. Find a way .swf file. If you have seen my Red Ball TAS TASses of ActionScript 2 games like TITOL have game emulator, either Gnash or Ruffle, with TITOL did successfully run in Ruffle, but when to open. At a dead end, I decided to ask Luke I knew that he had successfully created a TAS of You: Fetch-a-Fruit. It's an extremely serious don't worry. TITOL actually ran for Luke in that it wasn't working for me or anyone else due Classic. Anyways, with a way to accurately a glitch hunting and TASsing legend that has for the various Red Ball Games, with finally With dha reaching the stage 25 gate at roughly needed to be shaved off for a 1:50 cycle to barely strategies that were used on frame advanced and Times sheet, times achieved by runners like dha, 3 frames were able to be saved by incorporating the start. A frame was shaved off in stage 6 frames were shaved off in stage 6 thanks to the shaved off in stage 7 thanks to a larger bounce on the button, and a frame was shaved off in Now, in stage 9, where the elephant is controlled dha actually lost a ton of time due to him requiring a quick recovery. This had no impact through the 2:00 cycle gate on the first possible 1.85 seconds on this stage, or 74 frames compared stage thanks to more optimal jumping, and the TAS actually saves 6 frames by combining more 6 frames were saved in stage 12 thanks to infamous stage in TITOL speedrunning, left-right enormous barrier for achieving a 2:00. Without 10 times a second while holding down the right cycle in stage 25. Dha's rapid mashing allowed indicating that the game was registering the left arrow key is able to be programmed to With perfect 20hz mashing, the TAS saves 2.025 7 frames are saved thanks to a more optimal start thanks to the addition of a ground jump. That button has to be pressed and depressed 5 times for presses combined with a button jump, the TAS saves button jump and earlier acceleration, 8 frames 1 frame is saved in 19 from the more optimal a button jump and the lack of a small movement 33 frames still need to be saved in the next four last possible frame. Thankfully, 17 frames are optimal path being taken. 16 to go. 4 frames the top platform, allowing the elephant to fall a level where the only apparent gimmick is that wasd or the arrow keys. However, the TAS does not slight programming oversight when adding in this jump every single time, no matter how long it is actually slower for this stage, something which this stage was initially determined. Thankfully, instead of falling down before it, the TAS is able 2:15.200. 9.35 seconds faster than dha's world the TAS made it through the gate with just frame that requires a jump over the gate which and 2 frames in stages 28 and 30 respectively by in 28 resulting from dha jumping a frame late at 2:00 cycle limit at a 2:24.425. Personally, I do one day. Performing two more perfect button jumps monstrous task, especially considering the visual but if dha was able to successfully pull one off time before people start going for the other two. 4 frames of wiggle room compared to absolute is almost nonexistent. Completely disregarding all strategies that need to be performed, the absolute is good ol' stage 13, left-right march. nobody else had really done much better than While dha's effective 13 cps on a especially considering Flash Player input handling I felt like I needed to enlist the help of human potential on this level. So, I decided entire speedrunning community, my friend and Super Within just a few hours, Lekukie shared that then a 4.225 second completion, and finally incredible accomplishment, placing him almost a far from what he was capable of. LeKukie was able times in a single second using two fingers, but him was around 16. So what was the hold up? For or better to score a perfect left right march. The every other frame. This is monumentally at least 60 times in three seconds, as the rate of the entire time with no fluctuations, and how the way that Adobe Flash Player handles inputs not register entirely. You see, Flash Player currently held down at the start of each frame. If acts accordingly. The problem with this is that a single frame, Flash Player will just miss the flick the spacebar key while playing Red Ball 4, even though my computer is recognizing the key second, any input that lasts shorter than 25ms has that's what I would say if flash games actually In reality, the time that each frame lasts can 40 frames per second, that doesn't mean that each If this all wasn't bad enough, LeKukie a Logitech g413 carbon, would generate keypresses time that he was pressing the button, likely which was definitely causing a bunch of presses have only lasted for one. I even tried getting more positively viewed and appeared to have more it actually ended up being worse, so it was is that keyboards suck, drivers suck, and adobe working against him, LeKukie was able to get a And then there was this one. And finally... Oh, I guess I forgot to mention that he started because of all the keyboard nonsense that In October of 2021, the 7-way tie in This is The was finally shattered thanks to multiple new in March of 2022, roblox8192 was able to finally thanks to the incredible full-game Tool-Assisted Unfortunately, with one of the fastest button being unable to complete Left Right March within the 1:50 cycle has been deemed humanly unviable difficulty of the TAS strategies present in the also shown that dha's current record of 2:24.550 still some room for the time to go lower, and it the game's current human limit of 2:24.425. Every a hard limit on how fast it can be completed, 374 frames away from that cap. Though it is now able to hit TITOLs theoretical maximum like they it is thankfully also known that the TITOLs maybe in the future, we will be talking about a 24 seconds, and 425 milliseconds.