When 32 teams take to the pitch will they bring the people of those or divide them? At least seven of the 11 players who started for France in the final when they won the 2018 World Cup were Muslims whose parents But their experience of what are very different from that of a These tensions that are a result or a consequence of this colonial history then plays out on the football field between coaches, between players and fans. Why does identity become so important when 11 players step onto a football pitch? And how are some players fighting to embrace a more tolerant Karim Benzema is one of the In 2011, the French Algerian striker said that But when he missed, he became Arab to the fans. So, when he plays for France, he's sort of torn between his identity of French people not being open to the idea that there are different kinds of French people, i.e., they can also be people At the same time, he's representing the banlieue, who always feel And so that's why there's this kind like someone like Karim. After France won the World Cup in 2018, the team went to the presidential palace to meet President Macron -- a man whose idea of the French nation is hostile to Islam. Midfielder N'Golo Kante's But if she had tried to enter wearing her headscarf, she wouldn't because religious symbols are banned in Some Muslim women even gave up playing soccer after the French Football Federation enforced a similar rule. I mean, the problem for France is that while it it's often a way for it to hide the very obviously against Black people, against people of Arab descent. And so it becomes, by saying, We don't document that." to prevent or postpone a conversation about French identity that is more than just an ideal, France's colonial past also plays a big part in how identity is framed in soccer. When colonialism ended in most of Africa it meant that lots of countries got their freedom. But some countries, Algeria is a case in point. Again, France was very reluctant They had to fight for it Now, with time also, there because, you know, when there is violence, Well, where did these people go? They went to France. So you have these large populations of Algerians in many French cities living, trying to hold onto their own identities, trying to figure out how to live as second- These tensions that are result or a consequence of this colonial history then plays out on the football field between coaches, between players and fans, and between their football association and the media and these players. But the French government does not like its colonial past or the legacy of racism and Islamophobia it has produced. France, its modern identity is organized and what it says is that it doesn't make distinctions We are all French. We are all equal. The problem is, in reality, mostly that Frenchness applies to being white. Police brutality, housing discrimination, opportunity, practicing your religion. There are and things that prevent you After the 2018 French World Cup win, Trevor Noah congratulated Africa, given the number of French players Africa won the World Cup! Africa won the World Cup! The response? A French ambassador wrote to Noah, accusing him of denying the players' Frenchness and reinforcing the idea that French identity Like all of those players, if you trace their lineage, you're like, how did you guys become French? Like, how did your family start speaking French? Oh, OK. All right. When I read stories from Africa and when I watch what politicians say especially in France about African migrants: When they are unemployed, when they may commit a crime, or when they are considered unsavory, it's the African immigrants. When their children go on to provide a World Cup victory for France, we should only refer to them as France. That statement by the French ambassador is kind of laughable. I mean, anybody knows that's that France hides behind, But any person of color in France to France will know that that's not true. While France had players from the colonies and national team for decades, They mostly ignored Black footballers And despite being belatedly allowed to play, those Black England players still face In the case of England in the Euros 2021, that resulted in a penalty shootout and the three players who missed, And so then English fans, you know, went on social media and abused them. I think what that showed was football in When Marcus Rashford, Jadon missed those penalties, At least 600 reports of online abuse toward recorded after that tournament. After, Marcus Rashford, one of that racist abuse, felt I feel like they just reacted And whether it's because it's three Black guys or three white guys, that's how they felt. I remember when Beckham was getting death So it's like ... it happens but they just want you to win. No, that's like, that's like, that's like... This is actor Daniel Kaluuya. He's interrupting Rashford to tell him: the racism you faced That's why you get conflicted It just reminds you of being a kid in England. It reminds you of all them times then someone says something. You're trying to... You're trying to... get closer to the identity So soccer can highlight unresolved But can it also offer an alternative, more equal and inclusive vision of what It's difficult to say whether football I mean, that's a lot of weight Football is often like a backdrop, a space where these things play out. That's the best I think, the only way you could change English and kind of try to reinvent its symbols, If people feel... English people, Black, brown something to save about that identity, And that's exactly what many of France's to use football to embrace while fighting to redefine what Frenchness Because when they put on that blue jersey, that is as Arab, as African