Shilpa Gupta's &quot;Untitled&quot; consists of a forth, with each movement it crashes violently it apart. I don't think the sculpture itself is a The form in the middle of the gate puzzles like a random addition to make the damage I can't know for sure. The explanation given for its inclusion seems Additionally, the overall themes of the work Despite this I think the sculpture has at the gradual damage that the gate leaves on This is not an ordinary gate. It has been modified with knife-like extrusions The imprint the gate produces is less defined and then makes a severe hole at the edges gate. In some pictures you can see a tiny imprint it really starts to wear away at the wall. This, in my opinion, is the overwhelming appeal pattern of erosion that is produced by this course of hours or days. It is an artwork that is not completed by It is an artwork that cannot be fully captured person. It is an artwork that is sculpted by a single Behind a glass bell jar in a foyer of the of Queensland, is a glass funnel filled with Since pitch has an extremely high viscosity of water, it has been allowed to slowly drip Since 1930, only 9 drops have fallen, an average slowed down recently because it was moved 1988 and 2000. The next drop is expected to occur sometime This is not an artwork, in the traditional A long-term experiment is an experiment that at an extremely slow rate. The "Pitch Drop" is one such experiment, ringing two bells since 1840 and a box full periodically over 500 years. This experiment is designed to test how long An even older experiment, Lord Kelvin's imperceptibly slow moving pitch that mimics It began in 1887 and is still moving ever If you go to thetenthwatch.com you can watch experiment, which could happen any day now. You will find yourself staring in anticipation likely never come before your attention span You also likely won't be watching alone interested in the display. While the Pitch Drop will eventually run out is designed to slowly add material. The "Dripstone Machine", started in 1996, It slowly drips rainwater passed through carbon onto a base. The machine is designed to last 500 years be a staggering 5 centimeters (1.97 inches) I had two people look at the machine in its The stalagmite right now is nothing amazing, 5 milimeters in height but the machine itself of designing and consulting to create--including machine over the next 500 years. Stalagmites can be grown in a lab at a much machine forms them at an appallingly slow The machine drips once every 36 seconds. The art piece is a reflection on the natural of time. If the machine had started in 1524, a time New World, it would be done this year. I am waiting for an artist to take on the water passed through sand particles to wear In my video, Journey's to Hell I mention sharpens its beak on a mountain. When the mountain is completely worn down of an eternity would pass. The story has many problems aside from the The outside of a bird's beak is made of hair and fingernails. Keratin is 2.5 on the Mohs Hardness scale, is harder than Keratin. So "a normal bird would probably deposit would wear away." Furthermore, the mountain would certainly long before the bird ever made a significant If the bird's beak was made of sandpaper most mountain rocks this scenario would work. You've probably heard that the only thing in order to cut and polish diamonds you simply and diamond paste, and rub the diamond on We use an abrasive paste regularly on our Toothpaste contains abrasive grits which are teeth. In one episode of Mythbusters it was shown and floss you could very slowly cut through Though it would take someone 293 days, flossing have only cut through one bar. This scenario is still a thousand times more scenario grips our minds not because of its that this repetitive action would occupy under When I think of "Long Term Art" I think slowly but diligently over the course of many through a single repetitive action. Yayoi Kusama's Obliteration Room, is another Over the course of several weeks, each visitor to place anywhere within an entirely white Dot by dot, the room becomes more and more is overwhelming and objects begin to disappear r/place, created by Josh Wardle, functions Room in that any registered user on Reddit a huge canvas at a rate of every 5 to 20 minutes However, because it was on the internet, collaboration and different groups frequently contributed Since it opened on April 1st, 2022 and July very soon. These works are impressive demonstrations only last days, some projects shoot for more On September 9th, 2023 a concrete block was blocks on a platform in the town of Wemding, The last block was set down ten years earlier. This is the Zeitpyramide and it started construction 3183 after the next 116 blocks are added, The project was designed to last as long as years. Though the project will actually be complete The artist who proposed the idea, Manfred It is now up to the town and future generations The time pyramid is an admittedly boring structure, be made out of different materials later on However, its uniformity is its advantage. Already one can see the discoloration and to the cleaner third and pristine fourth. On the subreddit r/wellworn you can find images use, floors scraped away from daily walking, worn away from years of human footsteps and by nature. On the one hand these are pictures of objects defined by impermanence, it is a celebration enough to be sculpted by the routines of human Weathering is fascinating and dare I say desirable, things exist, from pre-ripped jeans to the armor and vehicle models that is added for While many of these products are mass manufactured exactly the same. Objects will be worn down in similar places, you can find me two human beings with the numerous scratches, paint chips, and dents with that object. In a sense, well worn objects are long art, I am a long artist. Early in my life I recall seeing a replica piece in a museum to show what one type of While today I'm certain the drill replica was spinning in, back then, I thought it did even to gradually see if the drill would slowly deeper into the podium. What caused this desire I can't say for knowing something in the world was progressing; forward to no matter what happens in the world That one day the rock would have a giant perfect it. There is a certain satisfaction in the incremental of how pointless that thing is, you are given and appreciate details, more time to contemplate During my incarceration in school I came up I drew a custom pocket calendar in which I little illustrations for holidays. I once took sheets of graph paper and each glue one on top of the other until eventually a tower 2-3 inches in height. At that point I must've stopped...and just I have been chipping away at it week by week. Between the start of the last video and the cans to make a tower of ZYN. A ZYN can is simply a plastic container filled addiction but two co-workers do, so I take the center and then stack them on a PVC pole. I collect about 4 cans a week each one is from floor to ceiling is about 7 meters tall--at (76 weeks) and 350 cans to reach the ceiling. Recently I decided the base of the tower should ZYN towers and make it a ZYN garden. It is no mystery what will happen if I keep Eventually my tower will reach the ceiling But it is not the end product that matters I get enjoyment from the task itself. The sculpture is a physical record of the time passing. The tower and base is mainly made of four The plastic will outlive all of us. The wood will probably last for decades, the and the polypropylene up to 500 years or more--all In that time the Dripstone machine will have tall. The pitch drop will have dropped about 39 The time pyramid will have 50 more blocks. Future generations will need to complete these The pitch drop live stream will have to be when they get full. The drip stone machine requires maintenance--which The time pyramid must have the town get together around by then. In the Namib desert, the oldest desert in to an mp3 player to play Toto's Africa on Max Siedentopf is a multi-disciplinary conceptual and biting satire. While the premise of Toto Forever is goofy, The installation is powered by solar panels In Randall Munroe's book What if? the author explains that if all humans were a machine on Earth to go out would be those powered by solar panels. Toto Forever, will not last forever, just fairly shoddy. Even if it was structurally sound without will become covered by sand or the electronics However, if all human beings were to disappear construction, an artwork like this might be And so I listen to that 80s hit playing alongside wait. Eventually the solar panels will become covered Sands.