Hades is another successful indie game carefully of Bastion, Transistor and Pyre. While Hades definitely shares some of the developed in a very different way. In fact, before the team even had the idea up their development process to the public their next game as it is being made. Development started in August 2017, right game Pyre. Everyone from the studio, around 20 people they wanted to do next. What are they passionate about and what themes of the many topics of conversation. Creative director Greg Kasavin highlighted extensible, a concept that the studio could to their previous titles that were a one-and-done Greg mentioned in an interview with Rock Paper open-ended storytelling, feels like a game Still, he and the rest of the team prefer decision was made to refine what they've dungeon-crawler this time, a genre Supergiant Since the studio was set on doing Early Access, because it offers lots of replayability while One of the goals was to make a roguelike where further. "Whatever form the narrative would take, intersect with the action and help contribute With the urge to create a game that can be a compelling and fresh experience every time, that would fit around this direction. First, they looked at their previous established design goals. Even though the studio has never made a direct they're opposed to doing. They just don't want to do it unless the Eventually, the decision was made to create to all the team's ideas centered around Greek mythology quickly came up as a source While this particular theme is nothing new were still lots of uncharted territories to "As the person doing the writing, I was mythology. What I feel is often lost in the shuffle is that we can see ourselves in. I think part of the reason these characters they relate so strongly to so many people but because they are human. So we wanted to explore some of that. It felt rich with potential for us, so yeah The idea of receiving godly powers from Olympians itself early in development and made its way Something that didn't make it however, was the famous Minotaur. Supergiant Games explored the concept of finding as the character Theseus, who according to end of the maze. During the early days of development, the This version of the roguelike played around be a sort of retelling of the mythical story. Unfortunately, fleshing out Theseus as a character find a good solution for, despite going through He was an interesting character on its own, had the risk of making him very generic. Adding more details on the other hand, made Around the same time, Greg Kasavin was reading Greek poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey and God called Zagreus. According to some, Zagreus was the prototype On top of that, there's also some evidence When Greg dived deeper into this, he found this specific Greek figure. Greg told The Verge that the Greeks were apparently to write stories about the God of the underworld This lack of information made Zagreus the up the possibility to create a more original the Greek legends that were already written. And better yet, the developers were able to many adjustments. Within a day or two, the creative director studio that Zagreus was the better choice. Altering the protagonist to Zagreus did change better. The idea of attempting to escape Hell and a fun, light-hearted tone that has a kind by many roguelikes, feels Greg. "One moment in Spelunky or FTL you feel bone-headed mistake and throw it all away. You feel clumsy and stupid and you hopefully Now that the core elements of the project attention to the wider Olympian family and group of people, trying to support Zagreus The team decided to not stick too closely to introduce more diversity among the Greek Just by taking a quick glance at some of the Zee, you can see a stark contrast to more For example, Athena is a black woman, while Amir Rao, the studio director, said the reasoning in ancient Greece, not because they themselves Amir added to this that the people working of immigrants and this has a direct effect their games. Although Supergiant Games took Greek mythology to honor the source material as much as possible, One of those more classic inspirations was to ancient Greek art and culture. It was something the developers explored as and that's why practically all of the characters least. "For some of our characters, their attractiveness Aphrodite and Dionysus spring to mind. For chthonic gods such as Nyx or Thanatos, incidental. They are the personifications of these profound how could they not be beautiful?" The dark, fantastical ink artstyle in Hades like Mike Mignola and a mid 19th century poster All the 2D art was made in Photoshop and the Post-processing was done in After Effects. Some additional tools the artists used were 59 portraits, 68 models, 194 boon icons, 1,400 frames and 942,489 character and enemy animation Features such as The Trial of the Gods are themselves and show how fickle they can be you don't side with them. These little events are all part of the greater to push further and further with each new sense that the game is paying attention. Creating this narrative design was especially the player doesn't follow a direct linear characters can happen in any possible order. Apart from a couple of moments, the developers and how they unfold for each individual player. In an interview with The Verge, Greg explained what happens in the game and sees whether himself has written. The list is big enough for tens of hours of It's by far the most ambitious narrative so far; no less than 20,000 lines of dialogue Besides making the game more interesting, to relieve the stress from dying. Additionally, the developers took great care run feels wasted, by inserting multiple materials These can then be used back at the hub area skills. "It was an explicit goal of our early development, restart. If the whole game is structured around dying moment of death isn't about rage-quitting. You have to be compelled to explore further of your time." Supergiant Games aspires to create titles depth. One of the ways they add depth to gameplay playstyles as they progress. The developers wanted to take that sort of the player to experiment with different weapons When someone feels like they found the perfect hopes they'll get nudged into a combination in an intriguing way. Greg also describes the gameplay as making control in some cases. During development, he and the team noticed that continues to be surprising and interesting This mostly comes down to defining enough each other to where suddenly richness emerges Every run should feel like a slightly different for more. A lot of roguelikes have the reputation of a lot of casual gamers. The team looked for ways to mitigate that ways to obtain health items for example. Later on in the game you also get access to enemies. There's also combat effects like Sturdy This, combined with the compelling storylines and hub area, was all done with the goal of all types of players. From the very start, it was a high priority the Early Access model, with the intention feedback from players during the early stages with the community. When enough core parts of Hades were in a it on Early Access in December 2018. At the time, it was only available on the The devs expected Hades to be in Early Access 1.0 release so they needed the flexibility This made launching on multiple platforms With a team of around 20 people, Supergiant necessary skillset to work on multiple versions Another key factor was that they were building but also enjoyable to watch. A storefront that supports streamers would With those specific goals in mind, they looked needs the best. When the developers started a dialogue with Epic Store were a perfect match for their Part of Epic's focus with the store is to creators to essentially get a piece of the "I think streamers and YouTube content creators influence on games over the years that it's to benefit more from the incredibly hard work So on a personal level, that spoke to me, just as part of the priority that Epic was The Epic Store also had the added benefit Greg explained that users on other platforms complete so the studio didn't want to change kind of experience the players on those platforms Epic's storefront was free of any expectations that specific platform. The developers approached the Early Access it's a lot of setup, you meet a lot of the is all about. But the resolution of the story is not all in the story will be rolled out over time. Along with just improving every other aspect The switch from releasing a fully completed wasn't an easy one. Before, Supergiant Games would work towards and the milestones were often rather undefined. With Hades, the developers spent a lot more Every milestone now had very clear goals and major changes to the code and typically ending making other final changes. The studio calls it a more mature and disciplined This big shift in their internal development Access process, where players were able to able to implement changes based on that feedback It created a very dynamic and transparent Supergiant Games had a much bigger pool of game into its best possible version by telling working and what wasn't. Not to mention the incredible fast rate of that was invaluable to the team. The players saw their efforts rewarded with richer and richer with content. The High Speed update, The Big Bad update, update, The Long Winter update, The Nighty more, all vastly improved the overall game storylines and more. Pushing out these updates in quick succession of the passionate community behind Hades. Supergiant Games took great care into making ever evolving world. For instance, the game would comment about through things like character dialogue. It almost gave the impression that the story Greg Kasavin mentioned it was fun seeing the weapons. For instance, lots of people wanted the bow a certain Olympian. Those players wanted to see their style of took that feedback to heart and iterated on Additionally, individual character storylines on player feedback. Dusa and Skelly for example were only meant community loved them so much that they were One of the feedback systems they used was requests on their Discord server but the team request, even if it had little upvotes. They watched countless steamers play the game reactions. Of course, the team also had access to large tell them things like what weapons players or where they would get stuck. Knowing when to stop tweaking a certain feature but Greg mentioned in an interview with PC on a thing, it's hands off.&quot; As the team was getting closer to the 1.0 in other words, they started preparations A Steam version had already been in the works Early Access on Valve's storefront in December However, getting Hades to work on consoles the small indie studio and this mostly came Supergiant Games has been using the same custom and began developing Hades on that very same Unfortunately, the engine always made it difficult through Hades' development, they decided This resulted in higher performance and made The developers joked it was a very unglamourous is exactly the same for the players. On top of that, it caused a lot of visual lots of effort to iron out. In September 2020, the completed version of to much critical acclaim. Pretty much every single aspect of the game don't like roguelikes, ended up enjoying and addictive combat. Furthermore, it sold 700,000 copies during of its full release, that number reached over It was no surprise when Hades was nominated it was truly impressive and well deserved Several of them were even Game of the Year Supergiant Games couldn't have imagined at a roguelike game. Now that the game is out on PlayStation and grow even bigger. Aside from all the success Hades has had, had the chance to work closely with their It was the perfect opportunity for them to years working on Bastion, Transistor and Pyre Supergiant Games has certainly become a staple say that their next title will be looked at