Transcriber: You might have heard that if you drop it will jump out right away, but if you put it in lukewarm water, the frog won't survive. The frog's big problem is that it lacks It doesn't realize that the warm bath until it's too late. Humans might be smarter than frogs, but our world is full Think about how slow people were climate change or a democracy in peril. We fail to recognize the danger because we're reluctant We struggle with rethinking We expect our squeaky brakes until they finally fail on the freeway. We believe the stock market even after we hear And we keep watching &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; Rethinking isn't a hurdle We're happy to refresh our wardrobes But when it comes to our goals, we tend to stick to our guns. And in a rapidly changing world, I'm an organizational psychologist. It's my job to rethink But that hasn't stopped me so I started studying why. I learned that intelligence sometimes, it traps us longer. Being good at thinking There's evidence that the smarter you are, the more likely you are to fall victim You can always find reasons to convince yourself which is exactly what my friends and I I worked my way through college, and by my junior year, It was my first time I was excited for my first time actually an active volcano, I set a goal to reach the summit So, we're in Panama, we get off to a late start, but it's only supposed to take After four hours, It's a little strange but we don't stop to rethink We've already come so far. We have to make it to the top. Do not stand between me and my goal. We don't realize we've read the wrong map. We're on Panama's highest mountain, it actually takes six to eight hours By the time we finally reach the summit, the sun is setting. We're stranded, with no food, and no energy for the hike down. There's a name for this kind of mistake, it's called &quot;escalation of commitment It happens when you make and then you find out but instead of rethinking it, You want to prove to yourself that you made a good decision. Escalation of commitment explains so many familiar examples Blockbuster, BlackBerry, Kodak. Leaders just kept simmering failing to rethink their strategies. Escalation of commitment explains why you might have stuck around why you've probably waited for a table and why you might have hung on long after your friends It's hard to admit that we were wrong and that we might have even So we tell ourselves, &quot;If I just try harder, We live in a culture that worships and prays to the high priest of grit. But sometimes, that leads us to keep going when we should stop to think again. Experiments show that gritty people are more likely to overplay and more likely to keep trying My colleagues and I have found that NBA basketball coaches who are determined to develop keep them around much longer And researchers have even suggested that the most tenacious mountaineers because they're determined to do In Panama, my friends and I got lucky. About an hour into our descent, a lone pickup truck came down the volcano and rescued us from our slow-boiling pot. There's a fine line between heroic Sometimes the best kind of grit is gritting your teeth &quot;Never give up&quot; doesn't mean &quot;keep doing It means &quot;don't get locked and stay open to broadening your goals. The ultimate goal not just to reach the top. Your goals can give you tunnel vision, And it's not just goals that can cause it's your identity too. As a kid, my identity I spent countless hours and then I got cut from the middle school I spent a decade playing soccer, At that point, I shifted my focus I was bad, I walked like Frankenstein, I could hardly touch my toes and I was afraid of heights. But I was determined. I stayed at the pool until it was dark, and my coach kicked me I knew that the seeds of greatness and eventually, my hard work paid off. By my senior year, and I qualified I was obsessed with diving. It was more than something I did, I had a diving sticker on my car, and my email address Diving gave me a way to fit in I had a team where I belonged I had people rooting for me But when I got to college, the sport that I loved At that level, I could not beat more talented divers I was supposed to be doing higher dives, but I was still afraid of heights, and 6am practice was brutal. My mind was awake, I did back smacks and belly flops and my slow-boiling pot this time There was one question, though, &quot;If I'm not a diver, who am I?&quot; In psychology, there's a term it's called &quot;identity foreclosure.&quot; It's when you settle prematurely and close your mind to alternative selves. You've probably experienced Maybe you were too attached to an early idea what kind of person you'd marry, or what career you'd choose. Foreclosing on one identity that gives you the right directions After my freshman year of college, I realized that diving was a passion, not a purpose. My values were to grow and excel, and to contribute to helping Grow, excel, contribute. I didn't have to be a diver Research suggests that instead we're better off trying on a range Retiring from diving freed me up to spend the summer and working as a diving coach. It also gave me time to concentrate performing as a magician. I'm still working on my sleight of hand. Opening my mind to new identities Research showed me that I enjoyed not just consuming it. Coaching and performing helped me see myself as a teacher If that hadn't happened, I might not have become and I probably wouldn't be See, I'm an introvert, and when I first started teaching, I had a mentor, Jane Dutton, who gave me some invaluable advice. She said, &quot;You have to unleash So I turned my class into a live show. Before the first day, I memorized and then, I mastered my routine. Those habits served me well. I started to relax more But just like with goals and identities, the routines that help us today can become the ruts One day, I taught a class and afterward, a student came up and said, &quot;You know, you're not following They say feedback is a gift, but right then, I wondered, (Takes a breath) I was teaching the same material, I didn't want to give up I had my act down. Even good habits can stand There's a name for that too. It's called &quot;cognitive entrenchment,&quot; where you get stuck in the way Just thinking about rethinking And then, I went I happened to be doing some research and it came in handy. Although you don't always get to choose you do get to pick and which ones you express. I started to see emotions kind of like art. If you were a painter, you probably wouldn't frame Your initial feelings As you gain perspective, So that's what I did. Instead of defensiveness, I wondered, &quot;What would happen I threw out my plan for one day of class, and I invited the students The first year, they wrote letters about what they wish The next year, they gave passion talks. They each had one minute to share something they loved And now, all my students to introduce themselves to the class. I believe that good teachers but great teachers introduce But it wasn't until I ceded control how much my students had and me. Ever since then, I put an annual reminder in my calendar It's a checkup. Just when you go to the doctor when nothing seems to be wrong, you can do the same thing A career checkup to consider A relationship checkup An identity checkup to consider Rethinking does not it just means taking time to reflect and staying open to reconsidering. A hallmark of wisdom is knowing when to grit and when to quit, when to throw in the towel and dive into a new one, when to walk away from some old habits Your past can weigh you down, and rethinking can liberate you. Rethinking is not just a skill it's a value we need We live in a world that mistakes that pressures us to favor over the discomfort of doubt, that accuses people who change when in fact, they might be learning. So let's talk about how to make We need to invite it and to model it. A few years ago, some of our students at Wharton They asked us to record our own version We took the worst feedback on student course evaluations, and we read it out loud. Angela Duckworth: "It was easily one of one of which the professor Mohamed El-Erian: "The number of give 'Aesop's Fables' a run for its money. Less can be more." Ouch. Adam Grant: "You're so nervous you're causing us (Laughs) Mae McDonnell: "So great to finally have You started strong but then got softer. You need tenure, so toughen up I'm from Alabama. Michael Sinkinson: "Prof Sinkinson acts but secretly thinks Ariana Grande (Laughs) AG: After I show these clips in class, students give more thoughtful feedback. They rethink what's relevant. They also become more comfortable because I'm not just claiming I'm demonstrating that I can take it. We need that kind of openness in schools, in families, in businesses, A couple of years ago, I was working and I suggested that leaders could record Melinda Gates volunteered to go first, and one of the points said &quot;Melinda is like Mary effing Poppins. Practically perfect in every way.&quot; And then, she started People at the Gates Foundation ended up becoming more willing to recognize and overcome They were also more likely to speak up What Melinda was modeling Confident humility is being to acknowledge your weaknesses. Believing that the best way knowing that weak leaders and make themselves weaker, while strong leaders engage their critics Confident humility gives you instead of pretending To say &quot;I was wrong,&quot; It encourages you to listen to ideas that make you think hard, not just the ones that make you feel good, and to surround yourself with people not just the ones who agree And sometimes, it even leads you like with the story about the frog I found out recently that's a myth. If you heat up the water, the frog will jump out Of course it jumps out, it's not an idiot. The problem is not the frog, it's us. Once we accept the story as true, What if we were more like the frog, ready to jump out We need to be quick to rethink. Thank you.