Robert Cialdini: We can begin by talking about is: The Psychology of Persuasion], which resulted into the training programs of all of the different to get us to say yes. I was surprised by one thing that I encountered There were only six universal principles. Now, there were hundreds, maybe thousands principles of influence that seem to capture were doing. Reciprocity. The desire of all of us to give back to someone So if an individual gives us something, a to at least listen to what they have to say. At the supermarket, for example, that little you've eaten one of those, it's very hard You feel like you're obligated to buy. Reciprocity is one. Another is scarcity. The desire to have those things you can have dwindling in availability. One of the things that many organizations their features are. Another principle is commitment and consistency. The desire to be consistent with what we've our internal values and what we've said So, for example, one study showed that if and asked them if they will vote in the upcoming And they now vote, significantly more often getting them to commit to that sort of thing. Another principle is consensus or what we The idea that people want to follow the lead We've done a study, for example, in hotels. I don't know how much you travel but when there's a little laminated card asking me We put different kinds of cards in rooms to most increase the likelihood that people would What hotels typically say is, "Do this for Do this for future generations. Or cooperate with us toward this common cause." We added a different sign based on the principle else is doing. It said, "The majority of guests who stayed once." That was absolutely true and it increased The interesting thing is, that was a completely used in any hotel in any city that I visited, what the research says. One of the hopes in these books that I've to allow people outside of the academic community, way have paid for this research with their them with their money. They're entitled to know what we found out And so, that's one of the purposes of the to the wider public besides just the academic Question: What was the thesis on your book [The subtitle of this book is: 50 Scientifically Robert Cialdini: We undertook the publication perception of persuasion as just an art, something of preternatural gift for saying the right are artisans of the persuasion process, no But it turns out persuasion is also a science. For over a half a century now, researchers communication professionals, sometimes marketing studying how you can say something in one the likelihood of assent to that thing, and hypothesis in scientific experiments; lessons beyond the scientific establishment, of how be confident that you will be more effective--because hunches and speculations of people who want Question: How does environment affect influence? Robert Cialdini: What I'm going to claim is that they are universals of influence. They're so central to the human condition, of modern society that you will be able to with your friends, with your neighbors, with that most resistant of all audiences, your I'll guarantee that these principles are central that they strum strings that are inside in order to behave correctly. Question: What is the difference between influence Robert Cialdini: The difference between influence one. Like dynamite, these principles, these tactics, The difference is the extent to which they approach to the influence process, rather A smuggler imports one or another of these naturally exist. Let's say, for example, that we use the We can move people in our direction by claiming talking about and if they believe us, it's route and follow what a legitimately constituted If we're not an authority, we have exploited them and their interests and their outcomes. There's a short-term success consequence There's a long-term disastrous consequence; with us if we fool them into yes. On the other hand, if we're a detective we recognize that we are genuinely an authority. All we have to do is raise that to the surface that people will be counseled correctly into So, for example, we did a study with hospital We just asked them to put on the wall of the all of their diplomas, all of their awards, went up 30% immediately. It's not so surprising that people want The interesting thing is that that was below All that had to be done was that somebody--like it to the surface so it would be available Question: Does understanding influence change Robert Cialdini: That's a great question again, which is if somebody's trying to know that they're trying, I should not be I should only be resistant to the person who to be an authority when he or she isn't. I do want to follow the person who is the I do want to follow the person who gives me is consistent with an existing commitment have in my life. Or I do want to be vulnerable to the appeals unique or dwindling availability that has All of those things are influenced dimensions counterfeited. The key is, if I've read about influence simply alert to the fact that somebody's differentiation. I need to be alert to the person who is trying the factors that steer me correctly; versus information. Question: What qualities give something mass Robert Cialdini: Yes, there are such features. So, for example, one of the principles of People prefer to say yes to those they know And one of the factors that causes us to like person. So the individual who, on a YouTube video, the audience to whom he or she is speaking, will get the focus of attention and will make The same thing goes with the authority principle The extent to which you can appear more authoritative, can do that, for example, by doing something than normal. We assign greater credibility and knowledge more rapidly than normal. If you speak too quickly, then you look like wool over their eyes; but slightly more rapidly what he or she is talking about, and you're Topic: Explain your theory on littering. Robert Cialdini: I'm not sure if you or public service announcement that was ran back Eyes Cody Spot. That is reputed to be the single most effective that has ever been sent to the American public. It showed a picture of a very stately, a buckskin-clad that floated with various kinds of pollution. He came to the side of the river; the bank He came to the side of a road, also littered. A car went by and threw garbage out the window, It splattered. The camera panned up, and you saw a tear running Very powerful message: "Don't litter." We have evidence that that message, not only be damaging to the goals of the creators of littering. Everybody does this. And that is a more primitive message than you to litter. And we've done studies to show that if somebody already littered environment, just as what increases the likelihood that observers will The thing you can do to decrease littering environment. That causes people to say, "Wait a minute! You are a norm breaker! I don't want to be like you," and they as a consequence of seeing somebody litter