There's been a lot of talk about whether companies like WhatsApp to introduce so that the police and government can read As I record this, they haven't done it yet, but the laws that could let them do so in And here's something you that sounds like a reasonable idea. After all, backdoors have been allowed for They're called wiretaps. And if a criminal investigation has enough then they can look inside your postal mail, they can listen to your phone calls, and they can intercept your text messages. And it's called a wiretap because, many years the police would literally be attaching a So for anyone who grew up knowing that, anyone who grew up with computers like this, like pretty much every politician in government, well, it seems reasonable that that should So why not? Well, first, let's look at the technical detail. It all depends on who is holding the keys. Modern encryption uses complicated math that is easy for a computer but almost impossible to work out in reverse. A really simple example: if I ask you to multiply two prime numbers you can do that by just hitting a few keys And because those were prime numbers, we know that's the only way to make 221 by Other than 221 times 1, But if I ask you: what two prime numbers were There is no way to work that out quickly. There are a few shortcuts that you can take, but it's still basically a brute-force method. Now imagine that you're but instead something like this... and you start to see the scale of the problem. And that's just a simple example, modern cryptography uses way more complicated The important part is that you can have a but could take longer than the lifetime of The result is that you can have two keys: One public, one private. You send your public key out to the world. Anyone can encrypt a message with it: the message gets converted to Even that same public key But you can take that noise -- and only your private key -- to decrypt it. When you want to send a message back, you and they use their private key And the beautiful part of this: you don't have to work out old-school You can post your public key As long as you keep that private key secret, no-one else can read your messages. This is a system that has been tested under It works. The catch is, it's really unfriendly to use. It's difficult enough to get someone to join let alone bring their friends along. Now you have to generate And if you lose your phone or your hard drive crashes all your messages are gone, Email that works this way but it's too complicated and it's too unfriendly The security wasn't worth the effort. So instead, web mail services, along with Facebook, Twitter, didn't worry about that. Early on, they were mostly unencrypted, but rapidly realised that was a bad idea -- so now, they use regular web encryption, that padlock in your browser, to make sure that no-one your password or your messages And that's the threat that most people But they do have or something close to it, and those companies can give that back to you Which means that when a government comes along the companies can also And this was fine, right? This was reasonable. This was an acceptable compromise between Or at least it was, until it was revealed every major government was keeping a copy at which point a few companies decided, that, they didn't want to take the risk of anyone being able to even theoretically access the The result is WhatsApp, and iMessage, and They have &quot;end-to-end encryption&quot;. Your phone generates a public and private It exchanges public keys behind-the-scenes, while you're writing your first message to and everything after that is encrypted. And it's all automatic! And so WhatsApp and iMessage in theory they could steal your private key or quietly issue a fake one to someone and but in practice people would notice. Sure, there are small loopholes that could but the odds are remote, and security researchers decompiling and tearing apart every version just to see if someone's The short version is: if any of these apps get served the most they could do is say how much two and maybe roughly where they were: but never what they were talking about. More than that is But it's impossible only because of the way And that is the vulnerability. A government could make it a legal requirement to quietly add a backdoor in all their encryption if they want to sell anything in their country. I've heard this phrased as &quot;outlawing maths&quot;, but that's a bit like saying that making punching a stranger in the face illegal And if Apple and Facebook refuse to add a backdoor, well, theoretically they could ban their phones or prosecute the people in charge, or block Facebook, who own WhatsApp, or they could tell internet providers to block or they could... Look, in practice they're going to fine the Apple and Facebook have local addresses, they pay... some tax. Sitting on the sidelines, I would love to see go up against Apple and see who blinked first. But companies have bowed to foreign countries BlackBerry let the Indian government have full access to users' chats The only reason WhatsApp can't read your messages is because they have deliberately chosen to They were just as popular without encryption: it was an afterthought, they'd been going for years before they switched This was a human decision, not an inevitable fact of technology. So why is an encryption backdoor Well, if there's a backdoor, it can and will Local British authorities already used our the ones that were brought in to stop terrorism, to monitor loud dogs barking, crack down on illegal feeding of pigeons, and to spy on some parents to see if they to a particular school they wanted to get Now, is this useful for preventing crime? Sure. And there's the argument that &quot;if you have nothing to hide, maybe they shouldn't have And yes, you, watching this, you probably from the current government in your country. But laws and governments change, the internet, and the apps that we use on If you allow a backdoor here, you're also allowing it for another country's and another to spy on people they suspect or who use marijuana, or who are Christian, or whichever thing is illegal in that country. In fifty years, maybe you'll be part of a country where eating and the government will want to come after the illegal bacon-trading ring that &quot;Nothing to hide&quot; only works share the values of you and everyone you know and always will. To make it worse, on the surface this seems to a regular, old-school wiretap, depending on how the backdoor's set up, a government might not just be able to get They could get the whole message history. Perhaps years of messages, back and forth with hundreds or thousands of other people. It's not just a look into what a person's it's an overreaching look into the thoughts it's that long-forgotten naked picture that It's that angry essay they wrote in school It's not just &quot;what are they saying&quot;, it's &quot;what have they ever said&quot;. That's all assuming the backdoor doesn't get All it takes is one rogue employee, in the government or at a messaging app, and we've got a huge amount of personal information Either of the public at large or of specific people that someone would like It fails the &quot;bitter ex test&quot;: can someone with an agenda use this to ruin a life? An AP investigation found hundreds of cases where police officers and civilian staff in looked up private information And let's not start on what would happen or even some other government's got access to the backdoor. Or how it'd make it much more risky to report abuses of government power, There is an argument that that all those drawbacks for stopping very rare Bad Things. I disagree, But an encryption backdoor wouldn't stop The problem with stopping terrorism right The Manchester bomber was reported to the including by his own friends and family. One anonymous source inside told Reuters that at any time there are and about 3,000 people &quot;of interest&quot;. For scale, just to reassure you, that's only about .005% of the UK population. But the way to solve this is not more data, it's having enough police officers with enough time to do their jobs and investigate. And let's be clear: anyone who wanted would just use something else, any of thousands of smaller services that or that they couldn't possibly Or if even that is not an option, they can come up with a code themselves, even just in-jokes and references So when I say that an encryption backdoor I mean it. It sounds reasonable. Like a lot of ideas sound reasonable when But the devil is in the detail. If we could replicate the way limited in scope and time, requiring a warrant and some physical effort, not including the history of everything that and not open to repressive governments then sure, I would absolutely Building an encryption backdoor isn't impossible: but building a reasonable one is. Thank you to everyone who helped and to everyone here at the who let me film with this wonderful old equipment.