I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs, and this is how a Diesel-Electric Diesel-electric locomotives have remained popular they can take a 2,000 pound (907 kg) chunk gallon (3.8 L) of fuel, which is 3 to 4 times Let's start with the body and frame. Most modern freight locomotives are and walkways on the outside of the body, The nose portion is full width or &quot;wide cab&quot;. They mostly run short hood forward, as Metal body panels can be opened or removed Main sections are the nose and operator's cab, auxiliary or &quot;aux&quot; cab which is the engine, and radiator cab at the rear with various cooling The body and critical components are alloy platform called the underframe. to deflect obstacles that could There's an overhang called the anti-climber that prevents deflected objects Concealed collision posts on each side further There's a unique ID number A set of air horns sits on top of the body, and there's an electronic speaker attached A large manual handbrake wheel Coupling train cars. There are various coupler types. Our versus the simpler Type E style on our train car. prevent vertical movement in accident conditions, Couplers are designed to work They'll couple in various arrangements, or one closed and one open. Knuckles are shaped to guide each other and that presses against the knuckle thrower which in turn moves the lock. and also rests on a sloped so that it naturally slides into locking position For uncoupling, there's a manually operated When rotated, parts operate in a reverse pressing the knuckle thrower which The coupler is attached to the draft suspension between train cars. also known as a &quot;buff event&quot;, the coupler which compresses an internal The draft gear's rearward travel is When train cars pull away from each the surrounding yoke pulls the draft causing the internal discs to again compress When cars are coupled together, a hose is also and a cable for cars equipped with electronic brake support devices. More When multiple locomotives are coupled, the MU engine, and electrical systems under The connector sits in a dummy Three additional hoses synchronize There's the main reservoir hose, the Engine 4-stroke diesel engine, called the "prime Fuel is supplied from reinforced-wall tanks carry 5,300 gallons (20065 L) of fuel. injection system has a pump with multi-walled tubing between cylinders To decrease noise levels and increase efficiency, made during a single combustion cycle, as Engine support components are mounted nearby, including a lube oil tank and oil Turbocharging two turbochargers to efficiently supply There's a charge air cooler nearby to cool since cold air is more dense and better suited The charge air cooler has two These turbos are arranged in what's called which functions as follows. can more easily spin up the smaller turbo, Air enters through a side port before entering the small turbo. The large turbo is not yet fully powered. As RPMs a valve opens, spinning up the large turbo. While the small turbo is easier to rotate higher overall pressures. low pressure turbo now directly feeds all of and the whole system delivers maximum To dramatically reduce certain these diesel engines are equipped with an A valve allows exhaust from the left where it passes through a water cooling unit Sending some exhaust gas back lowers combustion efficiency in favor of Water costs and avoid potentially hazardous anti-freeze A large tank holds nearly 400 An engine-driven water pump There are large banks of radiators with A large fan pulls outside air past these This cooling water flows to the engine, EGR During colder weather, it also pre-heater to warm the fuel before combustion. If the locomotive is not running F (4.5deg C) automatic water dump valves open, Electrical a massive alternator, which acts as a generator, The alternator has its own dedicated The locomotive isn't directly, mechanically driven called traction motors, are and provide the main driving These traction motors require fine-tuned speed it's simply easier to regulate variable motor a fairly intricate conversion process takes AC power from the alternator is converted to in the auxiliary cab section of the locomotive. uneven power from the alternator, and adjusts Current then flows through inverters which convert New technology makes varying AC process may change in the near future. heat during operation. There's with ducting and flexible connections to motor. bank of batteries sits under the aux cab. Apart diesel engine, these batteries can also deliver for example, around a railyard without Trucks rides on trucks or &quot;bogies&quot;, which hold traction A major consideration in truck design is adhesion, or ensuring wheels maintain maximum Primary suspension aids adhesion with A pair of dampers on one vertical shock absorbing duties for the bogie. Secondary suspension includes a set of Flexible side bearers are pinned to shift underneath the heavy locomotive. Inside, there's a stack of rubber pieces Axles can also move back and forth slightly. This, with secondary suspension, ensures contact even if the front and back of or on curved sections of track, where front might need specific, individual orientation A traction pin or rod solidifies the Safety hooks limit bogie movement at extremes. The traction motors are attached with bracketry A gear set transfers motor The trucks also feature a sand system for or when traveling at less than 15 mph (24 kmh). There are sand boxes at both sides, front Sand nozzles at the front and back of each bogie Nozzles blow sand at the Braking to efficiently haul incredible tonnage stopping the train. There are two main Let's start with the pneumatic or air driven The onboard air compressor supplies The brake system draws from these reservoirs. Air driven cylinders at the front and linkages that drive brake shoes. while another cylinder drives Still, there's only one brake shoe per wheel. At the rear of the locomotive, there's a to every other railcar in the train. make sure there's always supply for Modern locomotives have electronically where electronics add precision The brains of the system are Each car has an identifying There's an end of train device With all cars connected and properly sequenced by can be performed. For example, brakes can be train forward so cars don't ram into each other. Dynamic braking happens inside the To put electric motors in basic terms, the It's surrounded by a dense set of Electricity traveling through a conductive field (electromagnetism). the windings causes its magnetic field Since the stator's magnetic field it can be controlled, and even reversed, This added resistance essentially converts The excess energy is passed to grids of resistors that bleed off braking energy The dynamic brake box isolates resistors into Resistors can get so hot Dynamic braking adds stopping power to the train's braking process with few additional moving This dynamic braking process shares where electric vehicles can use their momentum and so on. Future freight locomotives may indeed system instead of releasing this energy as heat. with both pneumatic and dynamic systems playing a Now, let's head to the front of the locomotive A door at the nose cab allows entry. Off to one side, there's an electronics cabinet compliments the end of train device. system radio module that gives remote control but not directly connected to the lead locomotive. wireless event recorder data At the other side of the entry And next to that, a small refrigerator. Climbing the stairs into the operator's From the back of the cabin we and a crew member's console at the other side. Let's have a closer look at operator controls. detailed monitoring of critical systems, with Below that, the alerter button is part of The alerter system sounds every few minutes alerter button is not pressed within a number The horn sequencer button sounds the bell and traveling at more than 0.5 mph (0.8 km/h). A switch panel houses various controls, to toggle the system on or off. This but off for other locomotives Many other settings follow this pattern in The gauge light controls lighting The call switch sounds an alarm bell in The reverser handle controls which direction This handle is removed when or in &quot;helper&quot; duty following a lead locomotive. The reverser handle has built in The throttle lever above can't until the reverser lever is Conversely, if the throttle is the reverse handle can not be moved The handle is also locked if The throttle handle manages engine speed and power gas pedal, where a steady, consistent power The dynamic braking handle There are redundant buttons for There are also controls for the sand system. The lever beneath controls the pneumatic to manage brake system air pressure, in the The independent brake lever below controls There are rotating switches at the and also front and rear headlight controls. Moving to the back wall, there's Above that, a grouping of circuit In the middle, there's a Let's look at the engine control switch. For locomotives so equipped, the JOG setting without starting the engine. It's used for short With START selected, the ENGINE START button is ISOLATE leaves the engine running generator, and power to the wheels, etc. The MULTIPLE UNIT switch has locomotives together in various configurations. There are engine start and stop switches, &quot;ditch&quot; lights at the front of the unit, number The AUTO STOP OVERRIDE button prevents the engine Now let's move to the crew member's seat for observing, training, and other purposes. There's a smart display at the left In the center, the emergency brake valve At the front of the console there's a horn Looking towards the front windshield, we see inward and outward facing