- Hi, it's me Tim Dodd, Last night, Elon Musk updated the world on SpaceX's Starship development. Let me tell ya, the event was amazing. We learned a lot of really cool details. But, I'm still a little of this program, it's unheard of. If only there was someone of my questions about this - That's a nice shirt. - How's it going? Thank-you, you know full flow staged conduction not a bad idea Mind mic-ing yourself up there? [Tim Voiceover] After Elon we mic-ed him up and let the cameras roll. Now, for those of you new to my channel, we're gonna get into some and if it's over your head don't worry. Stick around my channel, and of all the stuff we talk about, like full flow staged combustion cycle and aerospike engines. There were parts of this interview that I wasn't really but, actually think the best the entire thing, un-cut, so you can feel like - Yeah, first off, thank-you so much for, you know, talking to me, I mean, we're underneath your beautiful beast. - Yeah it's crazy, can you - I was here a month ago, well not, just over the fence, and you know you got a and now you've got this! I mean, how do you, how do you do that? Is it just sheer will? Is everyone that driven about the goal? - I don't, I think I've about how to make things go fast. And then I've... propagated those lessons and there's just like hard working team at SpaceX, maybe there's too many We have like... you know, too many talented people, that we're cornering the You know, but there's like that works super hard and... The, and just have taking of, if a design is taking and therefore, the design must be modified to accelerate progress. And one of the most in advanced developments even when it is very complicated, and to not strive to It's incredibly important. So, this is why the switch to steel was because the advanced carbon - Right, right, well and not a sunk cost fallacist, &quot;This is clearly the new path - Yeah, is it in the future or not? If it's not in the future, who cares? - Yeah, yeah, and you did that, I mean look at last year, DearMoon, you guys were kind of in that like, awkward stage of probably figuring this out right here. You know, you had the - I think we didn't even have the steel, I think we were still on the path, when was the DearMoon thing? - Almost exactly a year ago. - That was before the change to steel. - Yeah, you guys, I mean you showed the carbon mandrel and everything and you're, you know, excited about that, but then all of the sudden we see you switch- - I canceled the carbon fiber - Yeah, so just after that. - Yeah... - You know, what people that you're the lead engineer, - Literally, this is, I with some, with a friend and he was like, &quot;Well, who's the chief Oh I go, &quot;It's me&quot;, &quot;No, no&quot; he's like, &quot;It's not you, who is it?&quot;, like okay it's either someone with a very low ego, or, I don't know, you know, but, you know that said, you know the, like, you know what I actually I was like, &quot;Everyone this is extremely important, and that everyone must understand all the systems in the vehicle work. And so that, so you don't have self-system optimization, cause this is naturally what happens, you can see the organizational errors, The product errors reflect So like essentially, an interface at this particular, like, whatever departments you've got, that will be where your interfaces are. - Right. - Instead of like, or questioning the constraints, design to the constraints has given them without those constraints and saying, and you should actually take the approach that the constraints that you are given are guaranteed to be some degree wrong, guaranteed to be some degree wrong, because the counterpoint would - Right, which is never. - As you were saying like, this is a platonic Zero, okay, basically, so, It does not matter if those constraints won a even our own standards are So, question your constraints, and, another thing that &quot;What are the mistakes that like, one of the most, one of the biggest traps for smart engineers is optimizing a thing that shouldn't exist. - Yeah, so they'll just that thing that's just like, &quot;Why do we even have - Absolutely, so, When you go through studying physics or the, you have to answer the question that the professor gives &quot;This is the wrong question&quot;. - Right, right, right, yeah. - But, in reality, we when you're in reality, of freedom of reality, and so is, &quot;This question is wrong&quot;. - Yeah, and that's what I mean, you kinda said time to frame the didn't necessarily know what it was&quot;. - It took ages to frame the The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Douglas Adams, best philosopher ever, maybe, I think, best Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, but his book is so deep, But like, in The Hitchhiker's the Earth is a giant it comes up with the answer- 42. - Right, yep. - And, to the question, so what's life, the answer to life, the The answer's 42, and they're like, &quot;What the hell, that The really, the hard part is the question, the answer is the easy powerful computer to tell and this is true, at can properly frame the question, the answer is comparatively easy. - Right, right. I have one more question on a video about aerospikes, an hour long video on they're like the rotary rockets, like the rotary in some ways, you know, like your- - Yeah, aerospikes, man, I tell you - They're cool but, what's the biggest, what's your biggest beef on them? 'Cause I'm trying to get why do you think they, and obviously, I assume, to an aerospike for a lot of reasons... - You know, I've internally so many times, like, &quot;Guys, maybe do an aerospike?&quot;, the... The challenge, so... And you're going to what an aerospike is? - Oh yeah, you're gonna be I've already set it all up, yeah yeah. - Otherwise you know, &quot;What the you know? - You gotta get your so, you know like, there's when you have a rocket engine, You're trying to shoot things out, as fast as possible, in a straight line. - Yes, yep, converting as much thermal and pressure into kinetic energy. - Yes, exactly, so you have and so what percentage of efficiency are you, and then what's your nozzle efficiency, which is really you know, are you straightening the flow, and shooting the molecules so that you go in the other - Yep. - With a traditional combustion chamber, you can get to a very high cause the molecules are in there, they've got a time and then when you sort of you know, it, that gives to combine, so you can Like, we think we can 98.5, hopefully 99 percent of theoretical combustion efficiency. This is so if, God himself the molecules, you're maybe one and a half that's very high efficiency. - Because of full flow staged combustion. - Full flow staged combustion, exactly, you've got a gas-gas interaction, so you've got two hot gases combining - Yeah. - And with a relatively thing that would be But you've got CH4 and you don't have any long you know, with kerosene they've gotta break down, it's a total soup, you know. Yeah, it's a part like dinner situation. It's very hard to get with kerosene, so when you look at the, say like, &quot;What's the kerosene engine, as compared The kerosene actually looks really is because you combustion efficiency with kerosene that you can with methane. So, you actually want to achievable combustion efficiency times the theoretical chemical energy?&quot;, and this is where methane - Yeah, yeah. - It's like, very hard combustion efficiency, or even 95 percent combustion efficiency with kerosene, but with methane you can get 98 easy, 99 with a little bit of difficulty. - And, so you don't think, spoiler alert, you're a full flow staged combustion cycle aerospike engine produced by SpaceX? - You know, if somebody can show that we're wrong, that would be great. If somebody can explain, there is a way to make this is a gift. - Right, right, right. - &quot;Thank you for this great gift, wow, this is awesome&quot;. It's definitely like, the &quot;We wanted to do this dumb design, and stick with our dumb - Right. - I would love it if an aerospike is the smart move, in which case, we'll just do an aerospike. - Yeah, then just do an aerospike; there's a reason they haven't been used. (chuckles) Period. - But maybe, that reason 'Cause there's also, there hasn't been a methane orbital engine. - Right? Or a flying full flow - So, there's been neither a engine that's seen flight, engine that's seen flight, I think there may have been some like, little test things or whatever, So, but I'm very confident Maybe aerospike is, is right, even though it's not been done before, but you just have to show that your combustion efficiency is not affected, and that you're, and that you're straightening the flow sufficiently. - To get your expansion ratio - Yeah - Yep, awesome. - Also, if you've got a I think like, this is you've got two-stage rockets where your boost stage is primarily in atmosphere, and your upper stage then you can specialize and a sea level nozzle, &quot;Why need the aerospike?&quot; It's only if you do want, if you want to try to do single stage, reusable, then that's when you start like having to reach for the aerospike. - Right, yep, that's awesome. Aerospikes, with Elon Musk! Thank you so much. - I would love it if &quot;Hey, you're missing the mark, you could do this different thing, and that would be, thank you, please. - Right, yeah of course, absolutely. Hey ,thanks for your time again, see you soon, pleasure meeting you. (voices in background) Oh yeah, we might need to steal your mic, I mean, I don't know, Thanks again for this - Absolutely. - I have to say, I've that was like, it was almost cause it was like, - &quot;You're insane&quot;, and now it's like, &quot;Hey look, I'm not insane.&quot; (laughs) - Well, you know obviously I'm sane, but you know, I mean... (background chatter) Even when I am exposed to this all day, it's so like &quot;Holy Smith!&quot; you know, it's so mad, you know, to see it actually there, and I was up in the nose, and I mean I'm gonna post this later but... - Jack Buyer's photo, like, I think like peeking out of it. - Well, like this is the, - Oh, shoot, no way! Aw and those are the header tanks? - Yeah. - And all the batteries got, what six... - They've got four Tesla - Yes! - And we just like, basically welded it on to the header tanks. - Right. - Oh we didn't even talk about that, you're doing model three - Yeah, for that, I I think we should, we should I think we are going to, move to a purely electro-mechanical actuators for the valves. Currently, it's electric motors powered, it's like Tesla motors and batteries that essentially pump hydraulic and then the hydraulic But it would be simpler to - Just do it - Kind of worm drive the valve. - That's awesome. - And also the way the right now is crazy, we the header tanks like cargo, I mean, we want the header tanks to be integral to the tip, so seriously, use the tip of the rocket as and essentially mirror the main tanks, but in small form, in the nose. So, just have two domes - Yeah. - And have the oxygen and fuel in the tip of the rocket, not as, not carrying the tanks like cargo, but having the tanks- - Just integrated, right? - Yeah, just a mini - Right, oh, and then you and everything too, it's yeah, yeah, yeah, gotcha. - Like in the early days or whatever you know, like were carried like cargo in the aeroshell. - Oh really? - Yeah. In the early days of aircraft and rockets, the propellant tanks - Right. - now modern rockets, modern like the wing is just a - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yeah, we should do the - I love it, thanks again . - Thank you. - Thank you guys. (laughs) Sorry, I didn't mean - [Man] Why're you looking at me? (laughs) - [Man] Was, was I rushing you out? - (laughs) No, not at all. - [Man] With everything - I'm just trying to kick Wasting all my time tonight, just kidding. Uh, so that was awesome! Actually, we've still to get answered, and stick a lot of content explaining we talk about, and sorry thing on aerospikes, I wasn't planning to release all that I've been working on, but whatever, I guess you get an aerospike Sorry in the interview I to talk about like heat booster, or what the interior but, maybe if we're to update us on Twitter, or, Elon, you can always come talk to nerdy stuff you want, I love I owe the biggest thank you you guys have helped take into a career, it wouldn't so thank you so much for your support. If you want access to more and exclusive content and a Patreon at Thank you guys. And if you want your own cycle shirt or other really stuff, I've got you covered, go over to www.everydayastronaut.com/shop, and if you work in the aerospace below in the description of click on that, you can thank you to you for I wouldn't be doing any weren't doing crazy things to so thank you guys. It's www.everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music) (upbeat music)