This right here is a diamond sword, one of the fundamental weapons in Minecraft. It's got solid damage, good durability, and can even be enchanted. It's a well-balanced, thoughtful addition to the game. This right here is a freaking massive baseball bat. Watch out, here he comes! Aaaaand... Dang. Uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, don't worry. This video gets even crazier. Why are you all here? What do you want from me? D'oh! Today I'm coding your ridiculous custom weapon ideas into Minecraft and hosting a massive PvP Arena event to put them to the test. Oh my god, yeet it! Yeah, that's right, Brancy, come here, buddy. Woooooo! Yes, I got eight YouTubers to lead the teams, and yes, it's absolutely as insane as it sounds. I asked you on my community tab for your most ridiculous custom weapon ideas so I could code them into the game, and... Oh boy, you guys clearly didn't disappoint. In fact, you guys gave us so many ideas that I had to split this concept into two separate videos, so keep an eye out for the other one, it might be even crazier. Bwah! Bonk, bonk, bonk. This is my job. This is what I get to do on a daily basis. All I'll say is that I had to balance these weapons for the PvP event. We didn't have to do that for the other ones. Wait, hold on a minute, I'm already getting ahead of myself and it's only been a few seconds into the video. This right here is the first of your terrible weapon ideas. Terrible weapons? Huh? What the... What the... Oh no, not again. Hiyah! Whoa. Hahaha, I've made it to the real world now. There's no way you could stop me even with your terrible weapon ideas. What the heck, how did we get here? Knarfy, I challenge you to a duel! Uh, okay. At least it isn't green screen this time. Prepare yourself! Alright, well, good luck! [Summon &quot;Hammer&quot; sound] Whoa, okay, you were prepared. Uh, just, just give me a second. [Knocking] believe what I just found. Eh, it's not that intimidating, but alright. Yeah, I think this is just really cool. Stop! I have the high ground. That's just the wrong franchise. What are those hands? I don't want to talk about it. [Grunting] Good evening, sir. My day is just doing being a weapon of mass destruction. Or... I could use you as a mount to ride into battle. To a glorious victory! Please... Here it comes. I got it. I got just the solution, hold on. Oh man, I don't want to break my own award. Oh man, it's so heavy. [Punching sound] Prepare to be destroyed. What the heck? Is that Cam? Did you kill him? Uh, no. No, no, no, he'll be fine. Uh, anyways. Prepare to be... Get yourself a Dark Knarfy plushie at makeship.com! Super high quality materials, but it's only here for a limited time, so go check it out with the link in the description before it's got better! [Screaming] Whoa. Uh... Hey. All I was gonna say is that you can get 10% off with this code that's on screen right now. Um... That was a lot of explosions. [Laughs] Take you? Alright, alright. Let's start with the first custom weapon. The comically large baseball bat. Whenever you hit something, it goes flying as the Wii Sports Home Run sound effect plays. I love this idea, because it launches things really far, and I think that's really funny. So that's exactly what we did. We've got the comically large baseball bat. If I just go ahead and right-click over here, it swings the baseball bat and launches things off into the distance. Just like you said, it goes flying! Hey buddy, how's it going? Goodbye! [Laughs] He died. How many iron golems can I hit in one go? Can I get two at the same time? [Slams bat] Got him! Got him! I'm being attacked! I'm being attacked! Get- get- freakin- get- freakin- [Slams bat] Nice! I think I still launched him. Oh, is it this guy? Where'd my baseball bat go? Oh no, where's my baseball bat? Where did it go? It's gone. My baseball bat is gone. Oh, Dark Knarfy Oh, just kidding. It's right there. I think if I hit three in a row... Nice shot! Oh, I actually don't know if it does. There's a way to get a home run, and I need to figure out how to do that. If I just summon a billion chickens, and then just launch a bunch of them... [Slams bat] There it is! [Slams bat] Nice shot! But it's just nice shot if you hit one thing. You'll also notice that if I completely miss... [Slams bat] Strike! I get a strike. You'll also see in chat that it has a strike, one out of three. And if I strike out three times... [Slams bat] Nice shot! I didn't... I didn't strike out that time. And if I strike out three times... Nice shot! I'm just too good with this thing, I guess. I don't know... [Slams bat] Strike! It just... You die. That seems balanced. That seems fair. We had to add every facet of this comically this comic through large baseball bats. So not only does it launch, it does the home run sound effects and it has a strike system and you can actually attack things with it. It's great. facet of this comic that's great it's awesome It's great. It's awesome. Well, how are these going to be used? Well... [Laughs] Have I got a story for you? I paid a build team to put together a massive Knarfy Arena. You'll see we've got eight teams here, each with their own color. And the first team with the baseball bat will be red. Each team will get their own custom weapon, and they'll all have to fight it out to see who's got the best weapon out of all of them. Like I also said, we have eight YouTubers heading up each of these teams, and their dynamic is going to be very funny. And up here, we'll be able to see the players remaining. This build is incredibly detailed. If we go ahead and go around the sides here, you can see we've got tunnels that go down and around, and there's little shops and vending machines all throughout. There's a ton of really fun details in here, and it's a shame that this isn't a world download right now, but this means that the event is going to be really fun. Anyone that's not actively playing will get to explore, and after you die, you actually get sent back out here, so you get to explore all you want. Look at this place. This is just one of the stores. Look at this! This is beautiful! These guys did an amazing job. If you guys want to check out more of their work, there's links in the description. In fact, I actually had to put together a team of approximately like 20 people or something for this video. This is an insane production. I created this baseball bat myself, but that was an easy task. I mean, this is what, four cubes? This is not detailed enough. So I actually had a couple of my friends designing models for me, and they did an amazing job you're about to see. A lot of time and effort has gone into making this thing absolutely insane. Custom modeling, custom coding, everything, and all of those people will be linked in the description, so go check them out. They're wonderful. I really appreciate them, and also I'm just gonna chill out in this tavern as I read the next comment. The Block Thrower. It allows you to pick up any block and move it around, and if you take the block and throw it, the more force you apply, the further it goes. Also works with mobs. Hey. Hey, you over here. Hey. No, no, turn around. Hey, how's it going? I gotta get out of here. I gotta show you guys the next thing. Whoa! looks like a gravity gun, and that's very intentional. This thing also works like a gravity gun. Check this out. I can carry this block around, and I can- I can yeet it. Take that. Let me just- hey, come here, pal. Get out of here. That's right. Uh-oh. Pew! Flower? Flower. Grass. Um, um, um, um, more grass. Oh, jeez. Grass is painful. Grass is so powerful. Grass is so overpowered. Hiyah! You can also see if I just, you know, poke him with it. He takes damage. Yeah, take that. Take that. Oh, oh, oh. You got too close. You got too close, pal. You got too close. You got too close. Yup. launched all the way over there? That was awesome. Yup. That's pretty great. You'll also notice that this had no cooldown, um, but it actually does have a cooldown. I'm just resetting it. We had to keep this pretty balanced, um, so this does actually have a cooldown before you could, uh, use it again. Because, man, that is pretty powerful. However, it doesn't have a limit on how long you can hold the block, so I can just kinda- you just kinda sit here and poke this guy with this block until he, uh, until he just ultimately runs into it and dies. Yup. Yup. Yup. Yup. Mm-hmm. He's having a grand old time there. Can I, like, launch you? I can launch them! This thing is absolutely awesome, but it does have a secret feature. Ow. If I take this TNT and I just set this on the ground and I go ahead and just pick that up with the- GRASS! If I just pick this up with the block thrower, it acts as any other block, right? It seems pretty normal, but then you launch it and now it's lit TNT. That's right. This thing lights TNT and we're gonna give the players that have the gravgun TNT. It's gonna be absolutely awesome. I'm really excited to see what they do with it. I- I- The grass is getting in the way. Hold on. Yee- Oh my gosh, that goes so far! The one change that we made to your comment was that we didn't allow it to pick up- [POP] So, I th- What is happening? We broke it. It's broken. I broke it. The one change is that we didn't allow it to pick up mobs, but that's just because it's a player versus player battle, so... It- It makes sense. Also, why am I holding it like this? Did I- Oh- Oh, now it's a crossbow. Um, did I mention this is all in vanilla Minecraft, by the way? Yup, this is entirely a vanilla creation. Um, w- [laughs] It's- It's kind of absurd. The crazy thing about this is that all of these features are literally just plugins in a resource pack, which means that people will just be able to join the server and these features work. It's so incredibly flawless and I highly recommend you check out my buddy, Laffless, who was the one that coded all of these in. He has been doing some amazing work. I've been in his videos. He's doing some great stuff. Go check him out. Link in the description. Excellent creator. He's also gonna be one of the creators at the end of this video. YEET! There are some quirks, but that's the beauty of an Knarfy video, am I right? That's just the beauty of it all. It's amazing and I kind of love it anyways, but I get to mess with them just as like crazy. It's just- It's awesome. It's amazing. Get rekt. Get- Get rekt. Anyways, all that being said, since you know this is in vanilla Minecraft now, everything else you're about to see is all still in vanilla Minecraft, all of those things. Uh, who's next? Woo-hoo! How about a big red subscribe button that you can throw at people, which if it hits them, it makes them subscribe. Well, I got the subscribe button for you. But I'm not gonna lie, we may have had a little fun with this implementation. This is actually going to be my weapon of choice during the final battle and uh, this thing is kind of awesome. If I just go ahead and uh, right click here, you can see you can pull it back like a trident, and then I can yeet it into the air. Um, but the fun comes when it uh, when it hits the ground. [Laughing] Yup, it explodes. This thing explodes and says subscribe. [Laughing] That's just so insane. This might be one of the most insane features I've ever coded for just a simple subscribe plug, really. This launches players like crazy. It launches, obviously you can see it's launching mobs, but this does the same thing in the event. And this means that I will be able to throw this into the mix, break little groups up, uh, get people launched into the air. It actually launches people high enough that they uh, they take it to full damage to die. This thing is awesome, and I'm really excited to use this live on the server. Because literally everyone gets to see this mushroom cloud. Oh, how far is it going? Where is it going? Yup, did it, did it land? Where did it? Oh, ho ho ho ho ho ho. But also, yeah, you should do what it says. Um, help us hit a million. We're incredibly close to a million subscribers. I'm so hyped about it, and this thing is just another, another reason why you should. We're just gonna do more crazy stuff like this. Woohoo! And explosion. [Laughing] It shoots fish at people that do one damage, but if it misses, the fish explodes with the strength of an end crystal. It also makes a wet smack noise when it hits people. I hate the end of that, but sure, here we go, we've got the fish gun. This one was designed like a barrel because, because fishing, fishermen, I think it, it ties in, okay, it works. I like it, I like it, and if you pull this back, it acts like a bow, and you shoot it, it deals damage and, and explodes. So that's, calm down pal, it's just some fish, alright? It's not that big of a deal. And, uh, yeah, we got, we had all those wet smack noises you wanted there. I hate it, I hate it. Okay, wait, calm down, calm down. Get over here, come on, yeah, that's right, take that pal. He's still coming. Chill out, bro, chill out, please. Freaking man, get out of here, pal, get out of here, get, get out of here. Get, yeah, yeah, yep, this is the, this is the fish, this is the fish gun. I mean, that's most of what it does. It, you know, it shoots three fish, it's got a chance to be a puffer fish, and then it explodes. Uh, I guess it also has a chance to be tropical fish. It just, it does that, and then it destroys terrain, and then it's chaos, and I love explosions and chaos. It's my favorite thing. Look at that, that was so cool. It's really cool, I don't think it damages, it does, it does, it does damage me. What do you think, Dark Knarfy? My thoughts exactly, uh, I don't know. I think he likes it, guys. I think he, I think he likes it. Oh, oh, this one's, I can't destroy the, he's just stuck there. Alright, bye pal. Did I mention these are all in vanilla, and there's some things that we didn't, we didn't think about and we couldn't fix? It's a blast, though. It's, it's great. Okay, let's, let's go to the next one. I just said it's a blast, because the next one is the honey blaster. It's a weapon that shoots honey, immobilizing enemies. There's also a 10% chance to spawn 25 hostile bees that target the wielder. Listen, I, I didn't want to do the bees because lag, but that was the only reason I did like the suggestion. This is the honey blaster, also designed by one of my friends here, and, uh, this, uh, blasts honey. This one's kind of cool, though, because as you can see, it places these honey blocks, and then the blocks go away. So it just replaces those blocks with honey, and then, and then it's fine. It's kind of awesome, you can see, it's like actually a place of I'm being squished, I'm being squished by the honey. It's kind of cool, it doesn't actually destroy the blocks, it's kind of neat. And of course, naturally, this will slow down other players, but if you'll notice, when I'm holding the honey blaster, I don't get slowed down by the honey, but when I'm not, I'm a little slower. And then when I'm holding it, I'm fine, and then when I'm not, I'm slower. It's kind of cool, it's a fun little balancing factor. It means that anyone that doesn't have the honey blaster gets immobilized and slowed down, and it's really annoying. But then if you do have it, you're not affected. It's great, it's a, it's a nice little combo, I like it. Also, naturally, uh, this does deal damage, and it's a rapid fire amount of damage here, and, uh, it's pretty detrimental. Take that, take that, take that, take that. It's iron golems, man, they're so strong. Oh hey, it's Knarfy. Oh, take that, take that, take that. Got him, got him. Oh, it's still fire, it's still going, it's still firing. Okay, so this is the honey blaster. It's kind of neat, it's also massive in my hand. It's super fun, and I like it. I like how this one came together. It's kind of a neat little like, just quirky feature, and I like it. I'm a little sad that I don't get to mess with these features when they're on the server with a bunch of players. I mean, I could, but like, I'm, I'm, I'm hosting, so I can't really... One of the teams will have this. It's great, it's a great time. It's awesome. The next one really confused us. The lemon-in-n-ate, the lemon-in-ator? Lemon-in-nator. Instantly smites the target with lemon-flavored wrath. Like, what does that, what does that mean? We really sat there and kind of scratched our heads for a bit of like, what do we, what do we even make this thing look like? Like, do we make it a giant lemon, and it shoots like le- lemon juice? Or do we like, do we like, do we like make it like a sword? Or like, what do we make it? And ultimately we decided on making lemons and a lemon minigun. So this, this shoots lemons now. This is the, this is the lemon-in-nator. As you can see, while I have this in my inventory, I passively gain lemons over time. And this is actually pretty useful because these, these lemons are, they're ammo, basically. Whenever the lemon-in-nator is ready and you right-click and hold, it'll fire a bunch of them in sequence, stealing a bunch of damage to players and blocks. Yep, it breaks blocks. That's actually kind of awesome, I'm not gonna lie. These lemons are also edible, and when you eat them, it gives you speed and regen. Kind of nice. Not for very long, obviously. We got to keep it pretty balanced, but it's a handy little side effect. Lemons are neat. Also, did I mention, this is a custom food item in vanilla Minecraft. Yep, that's, that's, uh, that's just what we're dealing with now. Absolutely insane. All of this is still vanilla Minecraft, and, uh, look at that damage. Look at that damage go! Yeah, this thing lasts for a while. Hey, buddy. Heh, heh, you doing down there. So overall, I think we did a pretty good job with this. I think the design is great, I think the feature set is great, I think it has good functionality. Uh, we did the best with what we had out that comment, you know? The comment was, was very confusing. Uh, but thank goodness the next one was much more straightforward. The Egg Mini Gun. Ever made a chicken farm and didn't know what to do with the two double chests of eggs you have in spare? Well, now you can obliterate everything using this weapon. Yup, we have another mini gun. Heh, heh. lemonator, but, uh, this one does, uh, it's a little different. It's a little slightly different. It's not, it's not that much different, but it's a little different. This one, the eggs hit harder, and they fire a little slower, so they're a little bit, they're a little bit more difficult to, to, to hit. You know, they're, they're a little bit more, a little bit, it's a little bit more, I don't know, skill-based. I don't know, I, I, I just think it's cool. Take this, take that, take that, take that. Oh, geez, uh, he's gonna get me! Naturally, also, you can't eat the eggs, so, uh, maybe there's a little bit of a- Where did that come from? It's raining, hey buddy, ow, ahhh, ah, ahhhh, ahh, n- The Egg Mini Gun is, uh, very, very similar to the lemonator, but this was the first one. We made this one first, and then the lemonator after, and that's, that's the, that's the combo. It also looks really cool. Like the piston, and the chest design, like, it's so cool! It's so cool! Now, you can obliterate things with this stack of eggs that I have! Okay, I keep doing that this poor guy this poor guy is just trying to live his life and I keep just throwing eggs at him I get it. I understand. I'm sorry. See ya too many guns Which one's your favorite and we'll also get to see which one's better because they both they're both good But they're gonna go face to face. Can I wait I need to oh, yep. Okay, they're gonna they're gonna go face They're gonna go face to face. They're gonna go out. Let's move on to the next one Next we have the light sword literally a lightsaber but named differently to make people angry what no we didn't make a lightsaber We made we made a light sword. That's a light sword. Yep. This light sword Not a lightsaber because it's not a lightsaber is literally a lightsaber. Yep. It deals damage I really shouldn't hit the villagers. I want to trade with them, you know iron golem You can you attack things like this you can you can attack things. It's it deals it deals melee damage. It's very cool It's very cool. But also it's got some bonus functionality. You know how most of the weapons we've seen so far a projectile base Yeah, like most of them have just things they fling at you Uh, well this has a feature to combat that this is the lightsaber in its defense mode Which makes it block projectiles and to show you this I need to find an outpost here We are face me face me shoot. Yeah, and again block tickets kids blocked. Oh Oh, it's working. It's working. Oh Bob and weave oh Light sword go. Yeah, that's right. That's right Take that take that I can just take on this entire pillager outpost myself. Oh look the allays actually Yes, oh hey, hey guys, hey don't don't worry about me I'm not doing anything take that take that yes I can succeed I will succeed in this. Oh boy. Oh, yep. Yep. Yeah, you guys can't oh you can oh, yep Block that yep. That's right. Yep. Oh, we shot the allay. Oh, they're shooting the allays. Oh, oh, oh, I'm going up here I'm going up. I'm going in. Hey, I'm stealing blast protection for very needed for sure bottles of enchanting amazing. Hey pal. Oh I can still do this. I can still make it Oh bad omen nice So that's the light sword not a lightsaber great melee damage and some bonus projectile protection. It's pretty great Definitely not infringing on any IP. Don't worry about it. It's not important. Oh, no, nobody nobody tell Disney I'm gonna be attacked by the mouse. All right, the mouse is gonna get me Hold on the allays got me thinking so we could give what a light sword we can give them the upper the weapons too Right. We've got one more after this, but I want to I want to try this you take that Yep. Yeah. No that makes sense. What do you look like with the egg? My gosh and you can have this one and of course naturally the subscribe button. Yeah. Yeah, I'll take that back. Thanks. All right Sick, it's so cool. It's so sick. It's so great And now we have one more to go through and this one might be the coolest model out of all of them I'm not gonna lie a book that shoots very sharp pieces of paper Acknowledged like ninja stars giving the opponents the worst paper cuts for extra damage at the multi-shot enchantment We didn't do that because we we we forgot But what we did do is make it shoot freakin ninja stars Yup, it shoots the pieces of paper out of out of the book as you can see by this model Each of these pages has a sharp blade edge, which makes it perfect for Flinging those sharp pieces of paper at your enemies. This thing is so cool. Like it's just so fun to run around and mess It's so fun to shoot because it's got no like arrow fall back and it pushes things back. It's so cool Yeah, yeah, yeah, oh my back guys did this also allows you to melee with it and each time you hit it deals extra damage And takes away a page. It's really cool So you have three shots and then you gotta you gotta restock you gotta let it cool down And then it gives you more pages back and pages show up again Boom more more pages ready to go and it just looks so good. We're at that final out There you are. Come here you sir. Come here. Where are you going? Don't go. No, no I didn't mean to shoot him twice. I just want to give you the book. Can I give you the book? Take the book. Yes, this weapon truly takes knowledge his power to a whole new level Look at look at him go. Look at how beautiful it is and then I could just steal it and then shoot. It's amazing It's beautiful. Now. He has two pages. I love all of these truly all of these weapons are just some of our best work Let me just lay them all out for you again for the red team We've got the baseball bat with its launching capabilities on the orange team We have the egg minigun the lemonator naturally fits on the yellow team block thrower plus some TNT goes on the green team Light sword goes on the cyan team. Don't worry about the light the light blue concrete. It's not important It's the same color the sharp book goes on the blue team honey blaster goes on the purple team Because naturally it's it's purple and the fish gun goes on the pink team Each of these teams will have their own team captain and this is going to be absolutely insane This final battle will have three separate segments starting here with the sandstone Then we'll move on to a water world and then we'll finish off with an insanely dangerous lava world We'll see which weapon does the best in each of those scenarios and ultimately after all three are finished. We'll choose a final winner We'll have a ton of my subscribers on each of these teams and whoever comes out on top gets all the glory And maybe a little prize of some sort. I'm figuring that out round one takes place here in the sandstone arena after getting about 120 players on our server they were randomly and evenly split between the eight team captains We gave them a little bit of time in their lobbies. They've read about the weapon and vibe as a team. All right I don't know if you guys have a weapon, But we have a comically large baseball we got the illustrious egg minigun, this is a sharp book We've got a book that was purposely designed to give people paper cuts kind of weird if you ask me but whatever We have a honey blaster I got the fish gun, let's go! What's going on? My peasants, are you ready? Guys... uh, half-life then finally the game was on here we go Oh, here we go. That's what I was looking for. I knew Knarfy wouldn't let me down typing be evil be evil Grrrr! Grrrr! We're mean! We are mean! Okay, let's go right side right side hit the pink pink pink pink pink come this way Oh my gosh fundy's team is coming fast. It's like a slideshow over here It's a powerpoint presentation of death light of oh, it's nature of gaming. It's nature of gaming Go team, engage! Open fire! On nature of gaming! Yes, nature's dead! I killed nature! Oh my god- Oh my god, what are those are those baseball bats? Oh no, let's get fundy everybody. Let's just Target Fundy specifically! Let's just Target Fundy! Let's just target fundy Back up! Back up! Hey SystemZee , you know what they all have to do, you know what they should all do right now that looks that looks familiar What should they do right now? Let me just, uh, let me just, uh, let me just... Oh, getting ready for the battle, man! Come on, boys! [screaming] [laughter] Oh chief has died currently yellow team is in the lead lafless who coded in all the features is currently winning This is a battleground over here what the heck We got lemons versus eggs! I'm on cool down! You take the lemons down, boys! Look at this little wild team of book wielders. This is crazy. Nice. Nice strategizing. Oh got another one. Very nice. Very nice No! No, no, no, no, no! All the very little enemies! Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen! Okay, okay Fight these men fight them or we die green and blue are tied for second yellow is still in first Look out for pink pink seem to be firing stuff. That I don't like. Yep. Okay. Okay, this guy is purple Yeah, nice. Go to purple. Go purple kill this guy. It's a chief &quot;It's a Chief!&quot; &quot;Yay!&quot; &quot;Get the guy!&quot; &quot;Get funding!&quot; &quot;STOP!&quot; [Laughter] Kill this Oh man, they're gonna get him (laughing) Why's there so many blue? Where's my guys? I'm alone! Oh no. Let me get you those. Oh, this could end before-- Let me get you those. Oh, it's a day! Oh, everybody, everybody, every color right away! Oh no! The lemons are crazy. Oh jesus christ. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay Oh I feel bad. I feel bad, but we had to guys we had to all right green we together All right, blue captain coming in blues coming in I can't place the tnt. Why won't it? Let me place it. It's Dang it. Mogswamp has died We've lost the green leader. I don't even know if anyone hears me i'm so voided Oh my gosh Oh my god, yellow is so tough. Fundy is deafened and going ham he's deafened and focused He's the last one on his team and he is focused right now. Oh, you're dead. Oh, you're dead. Oh, you're dead Come here. Oh, you're dead. Oh, you're dead. Oh, you're dead for you're out of bounds, buddy I don't know. I think I think I need to break up that little yellow group. There's no one who's red Whoa There's too many explosions Oh Branzy, Branzy with chilla with chilla. We're chilling you and me are chilling. Yeah, that's a good idea Where's fundy? He's not chilling. He is focused right now. He's locked in He is locked in right now. I'm so low. I'm so low No, please Oh good, he's gone. Okay, look i'm not a threat. I am but a mere singular purple soul Let me be let me be alive Allow me to be alive! I said allow me to be alive! Oh no! Oh no! Be let me be alive final remaining purple player Yeah, let's come in boy There's no way you survive go for orange captain Is this because I called you Brandy? Yes attack great work yellow we got this Yes, yellow and purple shall join forces No! Oh! Purple's joining yellow! Yellow! Yellow! Yellow yellow you're turning on me yellow as i'm the wrong not the guy yellow wrong guy yellow go for blue For the blue guy or the orange guy. Yes yellow We're doing great things Do my bidding yes, we shall win together yellow you and me great work kill the orange Branzy, I feel like you're setting yourself up for failure here. This is all gonna turn on you and just Attack on my behalf Yellow, quickly, get in there! Go, yellow! We've got this together all of us we are united fighting side by side yellow [Laughter] Branzy's staring into a wall. Oh, Branzy's dead! It's just three team captains now this could be problematic for yellow who was very commanding Wisp! Wisp I was your friend! Oh nooo! Betray! We'll play the battle Avenging his teammates [CHEERING] Blue has won! Lets go! Who is? Wisp betrayed me! Wisp betrayed me! The guy who plays pvp for living has won wow He betrayed me! Why, man? From the bottom of my heart from the bottom of my heart with the wwe from out of nowhere Honestly from the bottom of my heart i'm sorry not sorry man Moving right along to the second round Wisp's has the lead even though he's somehow been replaced with Kermit the frog hey everybody Welcome to my team today. We're gonna be we're gonna be teaming with um Coolment it's a nice team and uh, yeah, let's uh, let's do our best here Okay fundy and system zee are teaming up and they've decided to stay in their base as long as possible Border is going to drop but if we just stay here, they just can't get us. So don't hop down Fundy is gonna come over here and join us. We're all just gonna collectively chill in this spot. They have guns Oh, they have guns there was so much happening between these rounds that I couldn't include all of it in this version of the video So if you want to see a less edited more chaotic version of these rounds You can join this channel as a member for the extended cut then you can see more clips like this *Chief being a Carpenter* If you're interested in that sort of thing, I guess let's get into round two i'm sorry wait, was that a subscribe thing? What? I don't have a subscribe button Wait, what happens if you use it? Is it kind of maybe send you to the channel? Let me just let me just let me just uh Just yeet that Oh my god, okay Oh Jesus oh Ah actually like a problem. All right, everyone understand Diagonal back there. You see light blue Yeeeet! No, no, no, no! Go, go! Straight across, straight across! Oh, they're getting us. It's so not fair. Projectiles out. Don't hop down. Just stay here. Look at the TNT. I told you. I told you it's over. I'm so sad. Fire! Fire, light blue! Light blue! Light blue! Light blue! Okay, light blue, we're here, we're here, we're here! What's the plan? We didn't jump down. Oh no. Oh guys back away from the windows. Hello. We're here. We're here. We're here. Blue team calm down. We're helping you. We're helping you. We're helping you blue team. Oh you guys with the honey walking across this. Oh, this is gonna be great. Just fortify this location. Alright guys pick up blocks pick up blocks prime fire at the light sabers fire fire fire. Hey, Knarfy. Hey, just imagine I'm blue okay. You fit the part you got the blue armor it counts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you fit here. I'm low. I'm low. I'm low. No, no, no, no, I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. Get that. Get that. Get that pink guy. I'm with you. I'm coming. I'm coming. Oh, no. Oh my gosh. The honey flying through the air is amazing. Mogswamp you've been thirsty for some lemonade recently? Maybe I got you. I got you covered. You don't have to get me. Captain Oh captain speak for us leader. I'm gonna sit here. You guys do all the work. We can fight pink fight pink. Pink is not an ally. Pink has never been an ally. Branzy is still in the lead. Great job purple team. Great job. Focus yellow. Focus yellow. Everybody focus yellow. Don't focus yellow. Do not focus yellow. Focus green. Focus green. The number of people that are still alive is absurd right now. I'm kind of blown away. Where even did Zee go? Is he dead? Fundy. Fundy baby. Where are you at? No, get out of your orange. None of you. None of you. This is so many players in one spot. That's so funny. I can say where I want. Don't you come in. I will show you. I'm gonna make you nice and sticky. How about that? Why are you over there? Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here together. Oh, that's yellow. Oh, my God. I feel like you absolutely rigged this in your favorite. I promise you I did not stop. Stop. No, no, guys. No, no, stop fighting. Okay. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Branzy! Branzy! Branzy!! You're done. You're done. I'm not done. I'm just getting started. No, I'm running. Why is no one red? Why is no one red? Oh God, I'm gonna kill you because I'm frustrated. I'm gonna kill you because I'm frustrated I could have been orange. I could have been blue. I could have been yellow and pink and violet I could have been so many different things in life. Oh This is the color I am oh Jesus Christ. Oh God is this torture? Oh, even alive still Oh, I should be dead long by now. Oh my god Am I really good at living but not killing what an awful trait this is you're the most important person to me right now We may be coming from separate teams, but you are literally the love of my life Platonically don't get the same don't get the wrong idea. We just have to hold this position Oh my god! Run! Get him! Get him! Everyone, my own defensive fire-sheet! Run! Run! Run! Run! Get him! You're doing good! No! I'm sorry I have to get some- Oh my god! Oh my god! I took the- Oh, I died to fall damage! Why fall damage? Ow! Ow! Ow fiend! Ow fiend! You're all fiend! Dude, I literally can't move I literally can't move You want to not move? You want to not move? I can show you how to not move. Just let me in! That's how you not move! That's how you not move, friend! That's how you not move It's over. Mogswamp is out! Coolman is out! I killed the MOG! Ow, I'm gonna die but I'm not even dead! Alright, lafless. Come on, let's lock it! Come on boys Purple's with me, Team Chiefsy, all the way! Lock in guys lock in where it gets laf- Let no not mean I mean I mean the other guy the other guy Guys guys seriously, it's fine. It's fine. No, it's one versus seven can the lemon Can you do it? Can the lemoninator do it? Please, please! Get him over to me! I got one! Oh, wow! There it is purple wins That was you guys coordinated so well that was it Oh my god, I felt like we were in Game of Thrones We're getting attacked from my eight different kingdoms at once and we pulled it off Oh great work our third and final battle takes place here in the most dangerous of our three arenas It's difficult to traverse There's lava everywhere and there's even more alliances forming everyone started getting a lot more serious for this round planning strategies Coordinating with their teams and getting a little confused. Who's this guy? Hey, why don't you join the fight buddy? Oh, it's an armor stand both Branzy and wisp have succeeded in previous rounds But this map is now heavily weighted in favor of weapons with knockback I truly had no idea what to expect. So let's see what happens blue and pink are going to stink No, they're not going to stink. We're actually gonna do really good orange more like a gross Three two one People are gonna die so fast someone already died Open fire! Open fire! Get him! Get him! Hey, if I don't get a bit where you say you have the high ground I'm gonna be very sad it's over Fundy I have the high ground Oh yeah? I bet you do! I bet you do, Z! [Laughter] I love you! You are my brother! I can't wait, I- Check this out! [Laughter] Come see Takeout Red Team, Fundy's mean to me! Get him! The pain is suffering the pain is suffering so much to handle it's too much to bear. I'm sorry. I'm sorry Who is playing the sitar? Wow, that is impressive that was really cool. Oh my gosh This is he's gone chief chief. I've I've had my win. I've had my win if I have to give this up for you I will all right. I love my win so Yeah, I know it's so it's so confusing but it's okay All right No Lafless is dead. That's nutty. I think funny see got him with the bats guys. Remember don't hurt red team. We got an alliance Oh, I can't see anything. Oh, yep, that's dead. Okay, okay get to green get to green get to green green is our ally green is our ally that pool Put your armor on. Deadpool! You're not regenerative right now. Oh I'm convinced I had the worst weapon in the game Ability! Yeah! How many reds are there? Two! Oh, I want a home run. I want a home run, but there's never again-- Yeah! No, red! That was my last friend! Oh, no! Oh, no! Rest in peace red team. Oh my gosh wisp you're destroying right now you know what I haven't done yet is a subscribe button. I'm just gonna It's not gonna be good (boom) (laughing) Open down! Don't forget the decision! There's such a bad timing for that! I will get revenge! I will! I will get revenge! I will! (buzzing) I will get Branzy that is the only thing on my list You can get anybody else No Branzy, you ruined my life Coolment you are the last one on your team I can tell, I can tell! It shows! Oh, I'm so dead. Yes, good very good very good, okay Wisp who else is left? It's us. It's you and me right our teams fights pink and blue fight Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on Time out, time out, time out. Hold up, wait guys, no. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. (laughing) Wait, is this an evil laugh moment? I was gonna have a nice little heart-to-heart and sacrifice myself romantically for you No, no, no, please don't do that. We're gonna have to fight man. I don't come on Minecraft isn't about romance It's about Jason Momoa and Jack Black Holy crap. He's got a point For the pink sheep!! For the pink sheep!! That was exactly what I needed oh My god, honestly dead pool vibes vibes that pool vibes dead. Please not a pool five. Oh, no Chief you're also in the border. You're also outside the border out of the border. Get out of the border. I know No chief , Wisp! I'm your biggest fan this song is for you Chief, I had a whole romantic plan was gonna get on one knee and take you to be my lawfully It was so romantic it ended up with us in Belize Give me my bat!, you know, maybe the real winner was the subscriptions we made along the way