Narrator: Communities throughout Japan harvest some of the most exquisite fruits, vegetables, and seafood. Despite the high prices, there's still significant demand all around the world. These high price tags are risky, and costly cultivation processes. Real wasabi is a rarity, and it can cost up to $250 per kilo. The process of growing contributes to its hefty price tag. Wasabi is known for to grow commercially in the world. The only place in the world where it can be found growing naturally is along Japanese mountain streams. Specific conditions temperature, and soil minerals are necessary for these plants to thrive. They need a constant supply and can only tolerate temperatures between 8 and 20 degrees Although wasabi grows mainly in Japan, The Wasabi Company, located in Europe, is among the first to Wasabi grows for about 18 months before it can be harvested. Not only is harvesting a but it has to be done completely by hand. The farmer breaks apart the plant and cleans it up to get to the stem. A special grater with very fine teeth is used to turn it into a paste. Unagi, or freshwater Japanese eel, can cost more than bluefin tuna. It has been a delicacy but over time, overfishing has led to a decline in eel populations, contributing to high prices. In January 2018, young eels, also called glass eels, cost around $35,000 per kilogram. Young eels are caught and which requires daily And if disease spreads the whole pond can be lost. Feeding the eels two to three times a day is also an expensive task. Their diets consist of wheat, soybean meal, and fish oil. The farmers have to make enough food to feed all 150,000 baby eels. After six to 12 months, the eels are big enough to be sold. Fugu, or puffer fish, is a delicacy served across Japan. The most prized and or tiger puffer fish. In Japan's Haedomari Market, it's auctioned off using secret bids. The tetrodotoxin found in fugu is more toxic than cyanide. People can be poisoned The Japanese government on who can prepare fugu, and chefs go through extensive training to achieve this skill set. This careful preparation are causing it to become These sweet mangoes, are farmed in the Miyazaki Market auctions sell these mangoes for as much as $4,000 for a pair. Bees are released to help Plenty of sunlight is needed red, and perfectly unscratched. For a mango to be considered for auction, its skin must have no hints of green and it has to weigh more than 350 grams and have at least 15% sugar content. Ruby Roman grapes are a One bunch of these grapes can sell for $90 to $450. They stand out in their size, All of these qualities impact the grade Ruby Roman grapes are categorized in and determine exactly what The grapes are cultivated in greenhouses, so farmers can have better They're monitored to ensure each grape in the bunch is identical. Light and temperature are essential for the grape bunches to ripen into the right color and shape. Sea urchin, or uni in Japanese, is prized for its unique flavor in several parts of the world. When the spiky shells of sea the gonads, which are the are found inside. One 200-gram tray of gonads can cost up to $100. And in Japan, some can even Red sea urchins are hand-harvested They can be found on seabeds The amount of kelp in the water affects how many good-quality urchins can be harvested. When there is a lack of kelp, the urchins are less marketable. Once all of the urchins they're sent to a processing facility. Here, the intestines and the gonads are carefully removed to It is crucial not to rip or they drop in value and grade. Farming uni hasn't been perfected yet, so it remains a highly This Japanese melon is and it can cost over $200. In 2019, two melons from Hokkaido sold for just over $45,000 at auction. It takes 100 days for one of these crown and it requires a farmer's A melon's outside pattern determine which grade it'll fall into. They're grown in raised beds and kept separated from the ground. This allows the farmers to control the exact amount of water each plant gets. The air-conditioning and heating keep the temperatures constant so that the melons can Despite the cost, there is a high demand for these fruits across Japan. They are a luxury that plays a big part in Japan's gift-giving culture. Matsutake mushrooms are once a year in Japan. If the harvest is low, they can cost up to $500 per kilogram. These mushrooms grow in the ground connected to the roots of red pine trees. They are handpicked and because they blend into the forest floor. Changing habitats caused by drought years, high temperatures, and insect damage can affect the quality When there is a bad harvest, the prices of the matsutake mushrooms substantially increase. Today, Japan imports a majority from places like China and South Korea.