In our quest for truth, Does the message of the Bible align with the current rise Or does it contradict it? Join me as we open the Word But before we do that, let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for thank you with all of our hearts It is like a light on the road ahead. It pierces the darkness. It reveals to us your divine truths. Guide us as we study. Open our hearts to understand your word Enable me to present it with love, but with the clarity In Christ's name, Amen. The wise man that ever lived other than Jesus, Solomon, We find it in Ecclesiastes Chapter 3 The last part of that verse, he says, There's a time to keep And that verse has been echoing in my head, a time to keep Why have I chosen to speak There are some specific reasons for that. First, I'm concerned. Concerned about the direction Concerned about how that direction I'm concerned about the next generation. I'm concerned about young adults who are imbibing a message that may not I'm concerned about children whose minds are being saturated with You see, I'm concerned. And so it's out of that concern, out of that care, Now, there are certain things that have led me to this conclusion Let me give you some examples of that. Here are just a few recent incidents that have motivated me to address First, on July 3, 2023, that at the recent activists chanted, we're queer, and we're This seemed outrageous to me. It's shocking, but it's not surprising. In recent years, such blunt, outrageous Two years ago, the San Francisco Gay Men's Ch chorus of its members sing a song Will convert your children You'll barely notice it. Have you followed at all some of the debates that are taking place where young children between required to receive and to read books on transgender LGBTQ relationships and being introduced to sexual Children are learning about gay marriage, thanks to these children's books that are to indoctrinate our children Now, here's just one example of that. It's a book called I Am Jazz. Now, I'm going to quote for the book. I have a girl brain, but a boy body, This is called transgender, Now, that's fascinating and here's why. In a recent study, 65 to 94 % of children who claim a gender other In other words, here's a girl that has gender dysphoria, She claims that she has a girl's body, 65 % to 94 % of them, or late teens, a girl in a girl's body They go back to their biological sex. Now, if they were born that way, if they were born transgender, that Now, I am jazz. This book is a book of 32 pages. It was published in 2014. It was placed in many of America's public schools to target kids It received a number of awards, including the American Library Association It was one of the first books to influence Now, if you do a Google for I am jazz, you're going to find scores and scores the mindset of these children Jared Eckert, who's a research Now, the Heritage Foundation in the United States that tries Eckford is one of their key researchers. And this is what he said. Children are being increasingly targeted the guise of comprehensive Beyond the sexual messages of the books being inappropriate for children, Now, listen to what Eckford says about what the research shows regarding He says, Research shows that early exposure health, risky sexual behavior, and even So he said there are three major problems. One, poor mental health. Two, risky sexual behavior. And three, pornography addiction. Now, even if kids don't fully understand a young age, and impacted by that information By including or promoting books like these schools are, according to Eckart, One of the things that I've been taking of some of the leaders in the LGBTQ How do you change the culture of America? What kinds of things do you Marshall Kirk and Hearstin Pill, wrote an article entitled And I was fascinated as I read that. This is what they said. They talk about their master strategy for changing American attitudes And they say, where we talk is important. The average American household These hours open up a gateway into the private world of straits through So here's what they're doing. They're trying to influence And the idea is talk about, talk about, every place you get, can, Because the more you influence the media, the more you can change the mindset And they go on to say, so far, provided our best covert weapon in the Bit by bit, over the past 10 years, gay characters and gay themes have been On the whole, the impact Well, it's encouraging if you want to influence and change Have you noticed on television now that identify They are really significant. So when I took a look at how this lifestyle and the thinking of mainstream America to influence media, I felt that a voice I felt that we should allow God's Word when there is a coordinated, impact our children, Really, it's time to speak up. When mass media is saturated with anti biblical programming with the specific regarding the LGBTQ plus lifestyle, When books promoting this lifestyle to influence our children at a very It's time to speak up. When major retailers promote a pride agenda targeting When culture is impacting Christian young and our educational institutions, So we ask the question, what does What does the Bible teach Are some people born with Are some people physically boys Is change possible? What is the Christian response? Well, first, let me tell you what As Christians, we condemn all Not only is it inappropriate, You remember that in Romans 5, verse 8, Scripture talks about Jesus, and the He says, us, in that while we were yet Christ died in behalf of all humanity. Every single one of us Every single one of us have drives or So as a Christian, another person and look at them with hate Because every single one of us have drives with God's will, and they are Every single one of us, has a heart that is deceitful above So in Scripture, the Bible says, All have sinned and come But Christ, according to Romans 5 8 that we just read, in his divine love, the glories of heaven and tabernacled every temptation that we would ever face So there is no place for hate. If Jesus loved even his enemies, who we were when we were sinners, We can reach out to love to others who may Christians believe is Each one of us need God's grace. As Christians, we're saved by grace We rest in his love. Here's another aspect of that, though. In the Christian ethic, we respect The Christian ethic calls Love, not hate, love, not hate, love accepts another, even if it does not We cannot, as Christians, based on the teachings of Scripture, we're As Christians, we cannot affirm a lifestyle that's But we can accept the fact that people They are free to live the life But that does not mean that we It's important in this discussion from their behavior or actions that are The purpose of the Church is to transform culture, The purpose of the Church is to change the culture, The purpose of the Church is to shape the The Bible is very clear of God through believers We find that in Romans Romans, the 12th chapter, the second verse, I like the way Philip's It says, Don't let this world And do not be conformed to this world, By the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is good and So Paul says, world, but be transformed Paul invites us to go out He invites us to go out and to be In fact, it's exactly what Paul Talks about our being a light Look, Philippians 2, verse 15, and harmless, the children of God and perverse generation among whom holding fast the word of life so that I Now, notice the Apostle Paul says, Romans Be an agent of transformation. Secondly, he says in Philippians 2, Lights in a world of darkness. If we walk in the light as Jesus is in the Because remember what it says in Psalm 119, 105,thy word is a lamp under my feet, So it's the Word of God that enables us to distinguish between truth Love tells the truth. We can't say we love another According to John 8, verse 44, Satan is the father of lies, For 1 John 2, verse 21, 1 Corinthians 13, verse 6. So the most loving thing that we can do And as we share the truth of God's Word, the truth of God's Word presents And the truth of God's Word warns us clearly against So let's pursue what Scripture Let's take our Bibles and go back Genesis 1. And in Genesis 1, we find the very basis In Genesis 1, verse 27, we read, and let's go back Then the Lord, then God said, verse 26, Let us make man in our image Let him have domin over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every creeping thing Now, verse 27 is a key verse. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, He created them. Then God blessed them, verse 28, And God said to them, Be fruitful and Have domin over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every Now, notice there, in in the In the Book of Genesis, in Genesis 1, there are two words for create One word is the word Assa. Now, Assa is used multiple times. It can be used for what God does, but it When you Assa something or you make it, you typically make it Burra is another case, though. The word Burra has to do with the divine, It is when God Burras, God creates something out He is the one who shapes, It is a divine, sovereign act. So it is something that only God can do God created male and female. According to Scripture, First, did you notice the text? God created male and female in his image. It is male and female together in the one that reveals the magnificence of God's the depth of his image, 1 John 1, 8 says God is love. That love is most fully manifest when a male and a female created enter into the one flesh experience, sacrificial love like So the first reason that God created male and female, two distinct separate sexes, in the perfection of the love The second reason is he says, be fruitful and multiply, and that is to Male to male sexual relationships and female to female sexual relationships of the divine order that God gave Now, Jesus affirms that marriage We find that in Matthew, Jesus says, And He answered and said who made them at the beginning Again, Jesus refers back to creation, which is the bedrock, which is He said, For this reason, and be joined to his wife, So they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined So again, we find Jesus and female human relationships This is a barak. It is something that God has Now, the promoters of same sex marriage They proposed the union between two men This denies the clear biological, physiological, psychological, which find their union or their It denies the reality and from that sacred union of self Genetically, men and women are different. Now, throughout the Bible, this idea of deviation from God's plan is and on the other hand, the concept of true are highlighted, and they're in contrast, You find this in Genesis Genesis 19 tells the story of Lot. And as it does, it tells the story Homosexuality played a part in the Now, I recognize well that there are some Sodom and Gamorah were destroyed That's partially true. Sodom and Gamorah were destroyed because there was rape and incest, Sodom and Gamorah were destroyed, That's true. But they were also destroyed. You can't leave out homosexual. You can't pick and choose. Ines pitable? Filled with secular Godliness Certainly. Definitely. the idea that they were destroyed I like what Martin Luther says. Luther, in a book written by a plus He's commenting on Genesis 19. Let me quote from Luther, The vice of the Sodomites is It departs from the natural passion and desire according to which the male has Sodomy, or it could be said homosexual, craves what is entirely So when Luther is talking about he speaks about homosexual one for the other in the Throughout the Bible, we have clarity that God's created male and female Scripture is clear. You see, there are many people that look look at what's happening around them But yet the Scripture is clear In the Book of Leviticus, God is outlining principles And as you turn to Leviticus the 18th chapter, you have what some people Leviticus, the 18th chapter. And we're going to look there Now, this purity code also deals with moral and ethical standards, And I'll show you that shortly. It speaks of adultery, idolatry, Leviticus 18, verse 20, Moreover, neighbor's wife Now, what commandment is that? You shall not lie carnal ly It's a seventh commandment So you have a commandment there. I don't think anybody is going Verse 21, You shall not let any of your descendants pass through What commandment is that? First and second, Thou shalt not Thou shalt not make unto thee any Nor shall you profane the name So here you have the first commandment, you have the fourth commandment, Then it says, verse 22, You shall not lie with It's an abomination. Now, notice who is an abomination for? Both men. So here are two men that are united together and it says, You shall not It's an abomination. Now, was this this simply a purity code? Well, I've already shown that you have in those verses, so it couldn't possibly It includes that. But you have moral and ethical Dr. Echihart Mueller wrote a book called Dr. one of the assistant directors at the General Conference He wrote a book called which takes a look at each And I want to read to you what he said. He says about Leviticus, or larger context, we find terms referring Still, the question must be asked whether against homosexuality This restriction is clearly not the case. First, these two texts describe No exceptions are mentioned. Obviously, they're opposed However, it's very likely Here you have a reputed scholar a Seventh-day evangelist, Prohibition against male with male is far more than simply a holiness code but it has to do as well The Holiness Code, indeed, is not It's bedrock principles help us to define Now, what about the idea that some people How do you deal with that? There are many people that say, Look, This is the way that God made us. We are just made this way and we have Some people are heterosexual, some people are homosexual, It's all the way we were made. There's a fascinating article on the research that was done And the title of the article After studying over 400,000 people, the researchers concluded that there is Now, they did say that there may be a combination of genes that can contribute But they also go on to say, that that may be true in about They say 8 to 25 % of the people with homosexual tendencies may have these The other factors could There could be certain things There could be social factors So let's assume, though, are born with a tendency toward I should also point out, though, that there's been some fascinating Now, if you have identical twins, you would expect them to have the same But yet, how do you account for the fact that some of these identical twins, may lean toward LGBTQ tendencies, If they're genetically the same, But that's not the research. What it indicates is it just doesn't. But let's assume, assume that some people are born propensities for opposite sex male to male Does that necessarily Let's suppose here's a man that's born with a passion Let's suppose he has really difficult Does that mean that those What about a person born with a propensity toward alcoholism or drugs because Is that in harmony with God's will? See, merely because somebody is born The truth of the matter is, remember what David said, All of us have brokenness in our lives. All of us have fall in human natures. All of us have propensities toward evil. We have propensities that are Every single one of us. Some of those propensities in some people for a lot of unknown reasons, that we do not understand all We don't understand that they're complex. You may get some genetic reasons, you may get some social reasons, It's a very complicated, And again, I want to emphasize, We accept human beings, but as Christians based on the Word But let's go back. What about these propensities? As the result of our brokenness of our world due to sin, as I've mentioned, But let me tell you something, There is good news for every propensity Look at 2 Corinthians 5. 2 Corinthians 5. Here is the incredible good news. We're going to look at 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 17, Therefore, if anyone Old things have passed away. All things have become new. If we're in Christ, we are new creations. The Jesus that spoke and worlds The Christ that spoke and earth was blossomed and fruit trees gave The Jesus that spoke and created sun, If any man is in Christ, Jesus power can make us new. Where sin doth abound, whatever that sin Jesus, in his grace, There is hope. There's hope for the young person that has sexual desires and has There is hope for the man who has committed adultery and There is hope for individuals There is hope. That hope is in the power of Christ. That hope is in the grace of Christ. Christ's grace forgives us when we fall, but Christ's grace enters It makes us new creations in Jesus. In fact, the Apostle Paul talks about the power, the incredible power Here, Paul talks about the incredible 1 Corinthians, you're He first gives this warning 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9, Do you not know that the unrighteous Do you not do not be deceived? Fornicators, those that have sexual relationships Fornicators, a husband, an adulter, relationships with other women who are not Fornicators, idolaters, adulters, homosexuals, or sodomites, nor revilers, nor extortioners And such were some of you. Such were some of you? He speaks to the church at Corinth, a church that lived in a godless, He says, Such were some of you. You were fornicators. You were idolaters. You were thieves. You were drunkards. You were deviating from God's plan. Homosexuality is homosexual, so sodomy, Such were some of you. What does it mean you were washed? You walked through the water of baptism. You were cleansed by the Grace of Christ. You repented. You were washed. You were sanctified. What does sanctified mean? It means you're made holy. It means you're set apart for God. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name Here is the incredible good news. Whatever tendencies because of the brokenness of our lives, whoever we are, Ellen White makes a marvelous statement in the book Ministry of Healing, page 175, 176. Those who put their trust in Christ, Where's their trust? hereditary or cultivated Instead of being held in bondage to the lower nature, they are God has not left us to battle Whatever may be our inherited or we can overcome through the power Now, notice that statement. What hope. There is no passion, that Jesus Christ cannot give Whatever may be our inherited or we can overcome through the power Listen to this one. Desire of Age is page 671. Here is hope. Christ has given his Spirit as a divine power to overcome all notice underline all tendencies to evil and to impress Here's another statement, The converting power of God to can tendencies for the religion The power of God can transform inherited and cultivated tendencies There is strength in Christ. The Bible is clear that LGBTQ tendencies When Paul goes through the Book of Romans, he lists the lostness In Romans 1, Paul talks about In Romans 2, he talks about In Romans 3, all have sinned But there is salvation in Christ. Justification by faith, Romans 4 to 6. Romans 7, Paul goes through But in Romans 8, he finds there's Sin no longer because we are not We are free in Jesus. In the context of the plan of salvation, in Romans 1, the Apostle Paul does address Romans 1, now remember, this is in the context that is exalting the cross of Christ, that is exalting the power of the gospel So that's what this is in the context of. Paul must set out to show He must set out the lostness of humanity. In chapter 1, he deals with the lostness and the vileness and the wickedness In Romans 2, he points out that the Jews, although they have the prophets of God, He points out that all humanity is lost. He must do that in the early chapters to come to the need for our salvation Here in Romans 1, Paul is cataloging In Romans 1, verse 26 and onward, he says, For this reason, For even their women exchanged the natural Likewise, also men, burned in their lust for one another, and receiving in themselves the penalty Now, notice he talks about men Where does he get that expression, Well, if you go back to verse 25, and earlier in the chapter, So the natural use in the order of creation is But he says they change This is unnatural according to Paul. Look what he says here in verse 25, Which changed the truth of God for a lie rather than the creator So at creation, God creates by a divine I was interested too in how this was commented on in The Andrews University Study Bible has comments on each of these In Romans 1, verse 26 and 27, in the Andrews University Study Bible was from Andrews University who are I wondered, how did they It says, These verses condemn homosexual Unnatural sexuality, however, We pointed that out. The New Testament sanctions only the monogamous marriage It condemns all other forms of sexual activity, whether The And the University Bible makes it very plain that these verses are dealing with There's a new Bible commentary that has come out as well It's the Andrews Bible commentary. It's a summary, and there's one volume in the Old Testament, And again, the scholars from I was interested in what And let me just read to you from Andrews University Bible study of the leading scholars in the So I'm just reading their comment. Same gender, sexual conduct became Paul's Unlike many in the Greek and Roman world who condoned and even praised same gender considered such conduct to be against Any suggestion that Paul, if writing today, would have tempered his monogamous, and faithful same sex couple, as a genetic predisposition, The Levitical laws against same gender the role of the female Paul's indictment in Romans 1, gender sexual conduct, The focus of Paul's condemnation is Such conduct is the result of our sinful nature, whether momentary or chronic, on faith in Christ to resist What power there is in the Gospel And that's really Paul's point in the Book of Romans, that through Through the power of Christ, We can be made over again. You can go through Scripture and see this contrast between biblical values trying to shape us, trying to mold us, The biblical position on marriage God has created males and females relationship at the sacred Any sexual intimacy outside of marriage Homosexual relations are unnatural, sinful, and out of harmony with the law Now, I've been asked, officially made a statement based and truths that you've been Why doesn't the Adventist Church, Well, the good news is they have. The Adventist Church has been a strong relationships within the context It's been clear that sexual relationships marriage as defined by the Bible, I want to read you some excerpts from the Church's recent Recently, the Seventh Avenue Church Let me read you a few excerpts to leave no doubt in your mind where the We affirm without hesitation our long standing position as expressed Marriage was divinely established in Eden to be a lifelong union between man God instituted marriage, a covenant based union of two genders, physically, emotionally, and spiritually, The monogamous union in marriage of a man and woman of genital or related Any lowering of this high view is to that Then the statement goes on really a manifestation of the disturbance Let me read that part Homosexuality is a manifestation inclinations and relations caused While everyone is subject to a fallen human nature, and through the encouragement an individual may live in harmony Then this important aspect of the statement that I really want regardless of their sexual orientation, We do not condone singling out any group Still, God's word transcends time and culture and does The Bible's opposition to same sex union marriage anchored in God's So the Bible's opposition to these same sex unions or marriage At creation. We found that in Genesis 1. It's in divine legislation. We found that in Leviticus And it is explicitly, as a permanent monogamous and heterosethe So the Seventh-day Adventist Church We should, though, make a distinction Each one of us, because of the brokenness of sin, have But by the Grace of God, So having the orientation I may have a predisposition because of the brokenness of sin to more But by the Grace of God, I can be changed. So because somebody has a predisposition for that, somebody may have a passion environment, because of things They may have a passion for sexuality But because they have those passions and drives does not mean They make a positive choice for the Grace The same thing is true And LGBTQ orientation or The orientation may be part of our beings, How then do we relate? How then do we relate? What are some things that we can take away from the biblical principles I think there are at least five First, God has created all Through the fall and brokenness of sin, we all have tendencies That's one take away. Second, God calls us to love, not hate. The Christian ethic calls us to be compassionate and respectful and Three, to love doesn't mean we approve a The most loving thing we can do is to share the amazing grace of Christ transforms our present, Four, the LGBTQ plus lifestyle is not in harmony and according to Scripture, Five, through the Grace of God, all of us can experience Jesus invites us to reach out to everyone around us. Broken, fallen in sin, in Christ in loving tones, in kindness and compassion, that if any man or woman are in Christ, recognizing that the grace of God, There is no sin that God's grace cannot deliver us from by his grace Let us embrace and love one another to share the truth of God's Word, to share the divine truths of Scripture take place in every Let's pray. Father in heaven, how we thank you How we thank you for the How we thank you for Jesus Christ. How we thank you that through your power and by your grace, We thank you that Jesus is stronger than any inherited or cultivated And that through Christ, who overcame every temptation of Satan, And we praise you for that