Hello, this is Hazels. It seems like fall is getting shorter. I went out to enjoy the autumn camping atmosphere with Duho. Duho is most excited as soon as he arrives. It feels like a lawn playground. I brought the tent as a tunnel tent. I was excited to see the birds. It's been a while since I set it up, but it's bigger. I can feel it. Now all I have to do is pull it . I can eat more. It's nice to have a transparent window . I'm going to connect the front part to the car . I've set up the tent, so if you give me Duho, I'll go for a walk. I really hope we go camping today too . I think I did a good job. Decorating my own camping box is always fun. Finally, my own cozy space has been completed. Duho seems to be comfortable now that he has created a home. When I sit down after setting up, I feel a sense of accomplishment. I have now finished setting up~ I brought the Nordisk tunnel tent and put it in the car. I tried connecting it. It's a very large tent, so there's a lot of space left. I worked hard to set it up because I was afraid it would be empty. It's very close to the car, so it's very easy to move my luggage, and I really like it today. As long as I go camping. I was so hungry when I set it up. Even though I ate all of my lunch, today 's menu is... I'm planning to eat beef pancake first. It feels like Duho is cooking the fried egg and beef. I just smell it. I don't touch it. I put my chin on my arm. The cute boy's smell makes me hungry even more. I'm getting hungry. I'll eat it with green onions. Finished with red pepper powder, soy sauce, and sesame oil. The beer is so delicious. It's so easy to make and eat. You ate yours~ Nose , aren't you full? Hand, this hand, high five. Doo-ho looks sleepy. He's falling asleep. It's a good day to burn fire, so I brought a lot of firewood . Are you here to protect me? Doo-ho still thinks he's a small puppy. He's so cute every time I ask him to hug me. Are you guarding the house? I have to eat fish cake stew~ It's a perfect bowl of water to eat, right? It's too heavy to hold Doo- ho all the time, so I brought out a chair. Cola It tastes just like eating it while standing at a food stall in the winter. I think I could eat fish cake stew every week. It's so, so good. Come up, pack up the tent, come inside, and Doo-ho lies down. Now watch the TV. I think I can just lie down and sleep while watching it . The weather has become much colder than last week. Now, even when I'm in the tent, I need a stove. But it was okay for me because I was burning after dinner . It's warm when you're in front of a fire, you know that~ Just in front of me, I need to turn on that really hot drama and take a rest. Doo-ho. I need to brush my hair and cover myself with a blanket. I'm not cold. (Doo-ho) Good night , do you have anything? Where am I? Ah~ I came camping. Dooho must be excited every morning when he opens his eyes. I wonder if Dooho , a light baby puppy , is this happy . What is he always so curious about? I exercise every morning because I go around looking at every nook and cranny . My morning walk is so exciting~ Autumn sky and fall air. I need to take it all in. I'm going to eat something, but I don't know if I've eaten it all. Give me more~ Dog milk camping is good~ I went for a walk in the morning with Dooho, and the air is so good that I feel good. I slept really well last night. It was really quiet. It was really cold in the evening at night, but in the morning it was warm with the sun shining. But the tent was very wet. It's definitely a poly tent, so there's a lot of condensation and humidity. Where's my morning coffee ? I 'm warming up soup for breakfast in the microwave . I drank coffee for breakfast, and I brought button mushroom soup and a butter roll. I'm going to spread peanut butter on the butter roll and eat it. What the hell! What are you talking about? Bird? bird? Bird sound (yes, yes) Thank you for watching the video today. I'll see you in the next video~