Japanese New Year Meal in Cacao family style Hello everyone, Happy Cacao New Year~"('o`*) I can put this here too. Well then, this time we will be making our own Osechi menu. We will start by making the chocolate Canele. The chocolate surprisingly won't melt completely, so chop it first then add it in milk. Start the fire and warm it up. Once the chocolate starts to melt, lower the heat. Mix the whole egg and granulated sugar together. It is sweet and has a heartwarming yellow color. Sift all powder ingredients and add them to the egg. Add the milk in several intervals, then mix. Let me warm up your heart. Then, place it in the refrigerator for around 8 hours to sleep. Rest up, baby~ Spread the mold with warm butter. Good morning! Let's add some color to wake you up. Haha, are you drunk already? Don't worry. Although it is not crunchy on the outside, but the newly baked Canele has a pretty shape. The cross-section looks amazing too. Sift all the powder ingredients. Mix the powder ingredients with eggs. Mix the silk tofu in the mixer into a creamy texture. It is scary at first right. But that's alright. Measure it then mix it in. Spread it with a thin layer of oil. Warm it up a little, then spread a thin layer of dough on. Put a ganache in the middle. Wow, a mermaid. It's so springy. We will use the power of science. We do not need any user guide for love. Sodium alginate... You might have a different name when we met in our past lives. Mix it well, then add in the chocolate sauce. Prepare a separate bowl of water, then add in calcium lactate in. Using the melted calcium lactate liquid, after adding in the chocolate liquid... This is our love crystal. It's hard if you use a big dropper. Don't cry. Please don't cry, I'll be right here for you. Surprisingly I made a lot. Start off with the roll sponge cake. Whip it over hot water. Let's warm up our love together. There will be a mark visible if you leave it hanging. Whip until ribbons form. Sift and mix the powder ingredients together. Can you hear the sound of the powder fairy? Mix the milk and melted butter. Pour the dough onto the cookie sheet. You just mix for syrup. An instant and easy relationship is not bad. Remove the surface of the back of the cake. I'm chopping up the chocolate, and the chocolate is chopping up my time. Boil the heavy cream and make the ganache. Whip the other heavy cream until soft peaks form, mix in with the ganache, and create the chocolate cream. Roll the cream on the sponge cake. Roll it tightly, and place it in the fridge then it's done! Add only water and granulated sugar in the pot and heat it. The two blazed with passion. Let's bring the almond count in. Soon the two have torn apart. In order to restore our relationship, let's go back on to the heat. Let's add in the butter princess. When the gloss came out and settled. Spread it over the cookie sheet. Once they cooled down and solidified, place it in the bowl. Add in 40g of tempered chocolate in the bowl. It will look like this once it cools down. Once the temperature drops it will harden quickly. Lastly, before the chocolate hardens, sift cocoa powder on top. The chocolate almond will look something like this. It only has one layer, but let's create the Osechi. Perfect for New Year with bright colors. Mr. Gold flakes, it has been a while. Complete! Adding cacao, sprinkle- "('o`*) Sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, sprinkle, "('o`*) Sprinkle~ "('o`*) Nice Cacao! Let's give it a try First off, the Canele is inspired by the texture of sashimi. The exterior is not crunchy, but the springy texture quite resembles the sashimi. The chocolate roll cake that is inspired by the Datemaki. Probably this would be the first and last time where I eat a roll cake using the chopsticks. A whole grilled sea bream. With the ganache in the middle, the dough has a springy texture that is made from rice flour and tofu. Salmon roe styled chocolate jelly. The weak taste of chocolate sauce diluted with water lol. Black bean style chocolate almond. I was born to meet you. May the force of cocoa be with you (*'`)no Please subscribe to the channel, turn on notification, and like this video!