Hello, and welcome to Fiona's Creative I'm Fiona, and today I've got these household sponges out, if I can create a piece of artwork, I'll be using water and acrylic paint. These colors here, I've got titanium white, And I just thought I've And I thought, why not try to make I want to see if it works. So I thought, I'm And I've got a spray bottle here Just to help get the paint moving. So I'm gonna wet down my canvas. this is going And then I'm going to add some contrast Some raw, no. Yeah. Raw Sienna and some light gold. Yeah. We'll play around and see how we go. I might actually just dampen this a bit. Ooh, maybe that's too much water. Yeah. So I'm using a paper plate Oh, look at that. Actually goes on pretty easy. And I just thought, let's try for those people who are a bit nervous about getting started with art. Let's see if we don't even need to go and buy You can just get a bit of paint. Just a few colors. A canvas and have a go. So this is turning out quite dark. This gray. But I tell you what. The paint spreading on quite easily. So we'll do our sides as well. Make sure we get a bit So I did put a fair amount of water. I think maybe my. Maybe I don't have quite enough I'm just going to bring it across. Do the top of my canvas. Gonna try my edge and see Interesting So my design today, I'm going to be trying sideswipes vertical and horizontal. We're going to see what we can create. Right, I just want to get a Make sure I've got my canvas Because I did use a fair amount All right. I'm going to ad some So I've got some Raw Sienna using the gray. I'm just going to spread that on. Get that all over my sponge. I have got a spare sponge as well. And I'm just going to try. That's cool. Try it from here. Nice. Okay. I'm gonna try the warm gray. So I'm going to put that on my sponge. It's going to be mixed with the other Might be a little interesting. I'm gonna use the sponge this way I'm going to ad some white in there. Let's get some of these darker and bring some of this warmth in. You then have to apply it You can just go like that if you want. Let's try it that way. I'm going to go on the other side and grab this raw Sienna. So crooked. some deeper color in somewhere. Nice. I'm going to get a fresh sponge. Just because this one's want to do some more of the Raw Sienna. Take a little bit extra. Not sure about that. Makes it a little bit more gray. tilting it on an angle to get. A thinner stripe. Let's get some gold into this. So I've put a little bit of gold Not my palette knife, on my palate. And I'm just going to. Put a little bit on the edge I'm gonna lay it fairly thick. I think. I'm just going to put it closely, I want this to be my focal point. I think. With the gold in there. That just gives it a little bit more grunginess. I like that. Okay, so this is nice and dry now. I was going to leave it here, but I've decided that I've probably missed a bit of an opportunity I've washed these. There's still a bit dirty, But I haven't really used this side much. I was putting the paint onto my palette, some on there already, I've got my spray bottle and some water, and I'm going to try and give this a bit more depth, I guess. I've grabbed some Van dyke brown, which And I'll grab out my Raw Sienna as well. So let's just spray that and rub that on. And I'm just going to Just to apply little bits of paint on. I've got some brown up there. Not sure how the brown is going to go. I'm just going to spray my sponge Oops. But I do want to use the other side. So I might grab this one here. And let's grab some of the Ochre Nope. What is it? Raw Sienna. Look at that. I like that. Just adding some of these Let's mix a bit of the warm gray in with the brown. Up here. Wet my sponge again. Cool. That's nice. Maybe I should do the same down here. Oh, no. I don't want that black. Gray. How do I remove it? Oh, dear. We can make it work. Using the warm gray now Right. Liking this much better. This bugs me a little. Just because it was a little bit off. I'm just fixing that line. That actually works. giving a little bit of Yeah. We got a little bit of that brown in there, let's add a little. of the gold as well. Just putting a small amount on there. So I just want to take Okay. I'm much happier now. I think it just needed a little bit It's a little bit flat, so I will show you the dry result. Okay, here is the final result. And there are a few different ways Got a bit of gold popping in there. And the darker colors contrasting with some browns. Some more gold. Beautiful shine on the gold. So, all created with just kitchen sponges, acrylic paint, water and a canvas. So if there's any other challenges Let me know in the comments below I hope you enjoyed it, and I shall see