- Vanilla Bean. - [Man] This one is Bay. - Baby, Nick, they love you. - Yeah. - Oh. (creaking sign) (happy pop music) - I'm so distracted, I can't - Stuff like this, this is just play with puppies all the time. I think the great thing about acting is that you step into without suffering the consequences. - I was the kind of person, I also really loved art and I trained classically I watched a Gaga concert, and I started writing music, I auditioned for drama so I decided to do a and then from that I figured Anyways, so now I'm here. (happy electronic music) - What's your drag name? - Ooh, yeah. - That's a good one. I'd get on board with that, drag name. What breed of dog are you? - I have a-- - Temporary drag name (mumbles) anyway. - What's your temporary drag name? - I don't know if I can - Oh. - What is your? - What are you doing? (contemplative pop music) - I hope that this movie of representation and See, your story represented on a screen is a really powerful thing. - I think representation is crucial. It's so important to see and act like you and to see because it's what makes you This is a story that, it's overdue, but I hope that it 'cause I think it's so and if you don't see those stories, you don't understand them. And then it makes it weird I think it takes so and hopefully this film can-- - He's nibbling on my shoe. - Be a talking point to ease that, aw. So cute. - There's actually a scene in there's something that except the dog's maybe not - I love you so much. Little Vanilla Bean, this guy (serene pop music) - I feel like now more than ever is a time where you find a community, you can find people Don't be afraid to be vulnerable. - I can't give personal everyone's story is different, and I've never had to or anything like that. Knowing that you're not if they're real friends, will - Oh, wait now, there, I'm gonna have to separate you two. (upbeat guitar solo music) (laughter) - Sorry. I never fit in, like I was an athlete, but I was also musical, and but also like, none of You're conflicting ideas of like, you're trying so hard - Yeah. - But at the same time, And trying to figure that out. What were you like in high school, Nick? - I feel like I was kind of a misfit. I didn't really belong to any one group. I've never had to do This is harder than I (energetic pop music) Don't try and fit in as hard. Don't be afraid to be vulnerable. And trust your instincts High school's a time when express yourself, but you emotional tools to do that. Just pet puppies. - My advice would be keep 'cause I feel like I (upbeat rock music) I read it, did you read it? - Mm-mm. - Yeah. - I read it, after, I loved it. I was such a fangirl of the book. I reached out to Becky on Here, this is your guy. Adapting a novel for a film is tricky, 'cause there's backstory in like an hour and a half. Baby don't leave me (Katherine laughs) If you want a little backstory, In the book, they go much more into Leah and her insecurities, and I think that's a really large part of what's going on with her. Not only the whole emotional journey, but also how she feels about herself. - I got to read the book and it just added a lot of like maybe this is She used to be a school counselor, but she's really good at three-dimensional and I think we did justice to it. I hope that, if you liked the And if you've never read the book, I highly recommend checking it out. (cheerful rock music) - We went to Savannah, which was cool, except for the Ghost Tour, - Oh, yeah, Savannah was - Yeah. - You also taught me how to drive. - You knew how to drive. You drove on the other - Yeah. - You've driven a car before, right? - Yeah, no, no, no, I'd driven a car. - Okay, I was worried for a second. - Let's specify, he didn't Ow, babe, come on, that's not fun. That's my fingers, not like Sorry, (laughs) puppies. (happy rock music) - Definitely not ready to direct a movie, but, if I was to direct a film, I like movies that I like Donnie Darko, like in that vein. Jake Gyllenhaal in - Oh, really? - I was like, that's Nick, yeah. - Huh, actually I don't but I'm gonna take it as a compliment. - Okay. I don't feel ready to direct something. I'd like to direct, but if I did it, I'd wanna be ready to do it. I really like the idea of that you keep to yourself, I think that's really cool. Actually I had this idea to tell, when you fall in love with someone, but from a girl's I had a friend who told me about that and she just had a really beautiful story. (intense rock music) - Oh, God, I can't even think, I can barely like think about I can't think about five to 10 years. - Yeah, I'd like to do more acting. I'm gonna say it quietly. Here I'll tell you. I'd also like to do some music, 'cause I think I came and the last two years for me, I did 13 Reasons and I did this, and they're just coming out now, but like I think music So I don't know, maybe put some music out, 'cause my friends desperately 'cause they've known me So, we'll see, we'll see. - [Man] Alright. - He's not leaving me. (upbeat rock music) (whoosh) (creaking sign)