(audience cheering) - [Narrator] President-elect Donald Trump has promised to lower inflation. - Make America affordable again. we're gonna make it affordable. - [Narrator] About half of were the largest factor in their decision, but the President has limited - Anything that affects the economy, how much people wanna buy and how much people wanna - [Narrator] Here's a look at tools a president can use. Think of prices as a scale. On one side is demand, which comes from buyers having On the other side is and services are available. Prices tend to go down when When there's too much - Where we are right of excess capacity in the economy. - [Narrator] Donald Kohn is an economist who spent 40 years working in - If you add to demand that's when inflation is going to rise. - [Narrator] And a lot of in driving inflation up or down. - Interest rates, geopolitical Things that make people to push up prices and Things that make people or produce more efficiently will tend to reduce pressures on prices - [Narrator] Much of this remains outside the president's control. The Federal Reserve, for and uses interest rates to encourage or discourage borrowing money, which leads to more or less spending. For the past several years, to bring inflation down near its 2% goal. - They make their decisions that Congress has given them, and the President can as Donald Trump was in his first before Donald Trump have been. But basically it's up to make the decisions it wants to make. (explosives blasting) - [Narrator] What's going can also affect the balance of supply and demand in the US. - Think about the Russian The immediate effect of that was to raise energy prices tremendously because of the cutoff of - [Narrator] Still presidential policy can make a difference. Taxation, trade policy, are three key areas where the president can affect inflation. Take federal spending. - [Dr. Kohn] Spending because people need it to eat, or social security that's putting they'll spend it. That's boosting demand. - [Narrator] One way to of increased federal spending because that takes money When it comes to trade policy, tariffs directly affect the cost of goods and put pressure on supply. - If you put on tariffs, the imports into the country That's the whole point. - [Narrator] What happens on whether the public or if they trust that Donald Trump's policies - Together we will deliver low energy costs, low so that everyone can and a home, common sense. (audience applauding) - [Narrator] As part of his Trump has said he will of Government Efficiency led by Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy. - We expect certain agencies - It's very hard to get Congress to reduce government spending. What do you mean you wanna shut that agricultural research station in my congressional district? You wanna shut that army base It's one thing for a commission to make a bunch of suggestions. It's entirely another thing - [Narrator] With full Republicans are expected to during Trump's last administration. - Extending the 2017 tax cuts of budget deficit that we've The 5-6% of GDP. - We're gonna be reducing taxes. We can do things that nobody else can do. - Adding tax cuts, tax what we've already got is and will add to demand in the economy. - [Narrator] On the campaign tariffs to pay for tax cuts and make the US a - The key to this effort will that uses tariffs to and bring trillions and - It will bring in some revenue and how much depends on whether there are ways of by buying stuff from other countries, or if it's easily available here. - [Narrator] There are has talked about, like mass deportations, whose effects remain unclear. - I worry about the tariff I worry about the immigration part of it, reducing the supply of labor. I would worry, depending the effects could be more than on the price decrease side. - [Narrator] Even with the fighting tools, federal the Fed will likely have - Right now, I think most people, including people in financial markets, think inflation is headed what the Trump administration does or what the Harris because the Fed is (gentle music)