You died. Bummer. Unfortunately, you're not quite ready to a while and keep an eye on your physical body. Little do you know, you're about to witness they don't want you to know! Since you're fairly young and your death to need a post-mortem exam. That's why you find yourself...or rather, the morgue in the basement of your local hospital. You watch with interest as the doctor removes for the post-mortem exam. They start with an external exam, looking medical care, and taking note of any defining The doctor dons a strange looking face shield bit overkill to you... until he reaches for The doctor uses the saw to cut open your abdomen, sternum, and to cut through your ribs to expose At least they're careful not to cut too to see evidence of the post-mortem exam during You can't stop watching as the doctor proceeds can examine each of them by turn. They work in three blocks, starting with the First they remove your lungs and heart, then your tongue and throat without leaving visible Umm, thanks, I guess... Next they remove your liver, pancreas, stomach kidney, bladder, bowels and reproductive organs. Now that your body is an empty cavity, the and examines each of them in turn. You find it hard to pay attention to what's body is just laying there... empty... The doctor doesn't find any obvious damage to send for analysis, including a toxicology After the samples are prepared, the doctor roughly where they belong, then carefully You're a little bit surprised to see that of the post-mortem, and they even wash your Finally, the doctor completes their report Two attendants arrive to transport your body They load your body onto a stretcher, and You're relieved to see that your wallet possessions, but then... "Hey!", says one of the attendants. "This guy has a full Metro pass in his pocket! This has got to be worth at least fifty bucks. I'm keeping this - it's not like he's They both have a good laugh at that as they waiting hearse. After a pretty bumpy ride, you follow your freezer. Who knew death was so chilly! Well, you'd better get comfortable - this come in. Then your death can be registered and your A little while later - you're not sure if when you're dead - your body is once again in the funeral home's dedicated embalming The funeral director comes in with the embalmer, "The public viewing is in two days, so we family viewing tomorrow night," says the "No problem," says the embalmer. "Did you tell them that embalming isn't I could just keep him on ice until the viewing manage seepage. It's cheaper, especially if they're just " "Of course not!" says the funeral director. "I can't have that getting out - that They both have a good laugh while you look Since there's not much you can do about in to watch the embalming process. Besides...you didn't like the sounds of First the embalmer unwraps your body, then Rigor mortis has set in, making all of your spend some time massaging your limbs to work Then, they make a small incision in your groin As you watch the formaldehyde flow through begin to plump up and get more colour - you're Creepy... Next, the embalmer makes another incision, a metal suction tool called a trochar attached You watch with horror as they use the trochar them of fluid - including your bladder and Yuck! Thankfully, the embalmer is wearing gloves so none of the fluid comes into contact with Once your body is completely drained, the which saturates your organs and mitigates Now that the embalming is complete, it's You find it hard to watch the embalmer stuff any smells or fluids from leaking out, but This is an important step, though, and if from your eyes, which might look like tears After drying them, plastic half-moon caps from collapsing into your skull, and your The final indignity, though, comes when they After a thorough cleaning, to your dismay, diaper! This is meant to protect the coffin and your - from any leakage, but that doesn't make Last but not least, your hair is styled, your makeup is applied. Your body is even treated to a last manicure! Finally you're dressed in your best suit, good...for a dead guy! After the embalmer leaves, two attendants You recognize one of the attendants from the - but you don't recognize the other one. He looks vaguely uneasy about being so close be new. Your suspicions are confirmed a few minutes the coffin and says: "Okay newbie, go open the lid so we can The newbie edges closer to your casket, keeping he half expects you to sit up any minute. As he reaches out a hand to open the casket, reaches for him. He runs from the room screaming bloody murder, "Did you see him run! What a scaredy-cat!" says the man sitting other attendant from the hospital. "I knew he wasn't cut out for this job. Good riddance," says the other. "Okay, get out and help me with him." Finally, they carefully place you into your space. You have a lovely service full of family and seems to bring them some closure. But you're still not quite ready to move You've heard terrible rumours about what to stick with your body for a while longer After another bumby hearse ride your casket The crematory operator takes a numbered card next to what looks like a large furnace. You realize that this is how they make sure other end. The operator opens the coffin and checks your You see him notice your watch, and then watch your body! "How many times do I have to tell those watches before they drop them off! Don't they know that the watch batteries You feel a bit better, but still resolve to Not that you can do much about it... The operator starts the cremator by turning seven-hundred-and-fifty degrees Celsius. All the while they are monitoring the system for temperature, emissions, and oxygen levels, You realize that this must be a much more Before you know it, the cremator is ready. This is the part you were worried about - you've and reselling them! But your fears are soon calmed when you overhear load your body - casket and all - into the "I'm glad this guy's family didn't those cardboard boxes", they say. "Those things are so inefficient. The wood from the coffin burns first, which environment for an efficient and even cremation." "There," they, as they shut the door to "That was a pretty small one, so let's After an hour has passed, the operator returns They peek through a window in the side of process is done. You can't resist sneaking a peak yourself, of ashes. The operator shuts down the machine and leaves raking out the remains. Once the machine has cooled down, the assistant the remains through an opening at the bottom Finally, the assistant picks through the bin left over from the coffin. When he's done you notice there are still worry that he missed some hinges or screws. The operator sets you straight when they return "Good job, I think you got everything. Looks like we have some bone fragments, maybe That's to be expected - the bigger bones young bones are stronger, after all. Don't worry, the cremulator will take care You barely have time to register this bit the bin of your remains over to the cremulator. A cremulator, it turns out, is a machine that a fine, uniform ash and filters out any unsightly Once the cremulator has done its job, your urn that your relatives have selected, and You're relieved to see that your watch is go missing! Satisfied that your body has been properly that it's time to leave and go explore the Your soul is at peace now that you've learned you to know! So, what do you think of these secrets that What surprised you most about the process Be sure and let us know your thoughts on funeral If this got your morbid curiosity going, you'd Just Before You Die? It will make funeral home secrets seem like Or maybe you prefer this other video instead. Either way, click one now while you're still