Today I am making cranberry cheese buns. This is a simple and delicious one that I loved when I first learned to make bread. By the way, I would like to share with you the problem of cracking on the sides of the bread. When kneading the dough, I follow a principle: the surface temperature should not exceed 28 degrees. Recently, there has always been My friends asked me how to knead the dough with the Qiaoli chef machine. I gave you a formula. It is divided into three stages. The first stage is to mix the ingredients until the dough becomes chewy. The second stage is to add butter until the butter is integrated into the dough. The third stage. The first stage is the stage of removing the glove film. You can apply this formula to knead the dough when making any bread. If you are using a machine with an electronic screen, directly adjust the time to 10 minutes. First, use the 3rd gear to knead for 2 minutes. After forming a ball, turn to the 5th gear and knead 8-8. The first stage of 10 minutes can usually be completed in 10 minutes. It can take no more than 13 minutes to knead to such an 8-point gluten state. Then it enters the second stage and adds butter. After the butter is added, knead in level 3 first. Knead for 5 minutes until all the butter is absorbed into the dough. Then enter the third stage and directly turn to 5 or 6. Check the dough status every 1 to 2 minutes until you can knead a smooth, thin and strong film to make sweet bread. You can just use this formula to knead toast, but there is a prerequisite : put the ice bucket in the refrigerator to freeze before kneading the dough , or freeze the dough and bucket with water for 20-30 minutes or refrigerate overnight. The principle is to cool down before kneading to ensure that the temperature of the kneaded dough is not too high. As long as you master this temperature principle and the formula, kneading the dough is really so easy. After the dough is kneaded, let it ferment. This is the time to make cheese filling cream. Soften the cheese in advance, add sugar and mix well , then add almond flour and mix well , then add chopped dried cranberries and mix well, then the cheese filling is ready. If the temperature of the kneaded dough is suitable and the fermentation temperature is relatively stable, then Basically, it takes 80 minutes to be ready. If you look at the good state, it will rebound slightly or not rebound or collapse when pressed . People who often watch my videos should know it. I guess they are tired of hearing it and their ears are covered with dough. After it has risen, divide it and roll it into a round shape. For this recipe, just divide it into three parts , then cover it and let it rest for 20-30 minutes. After it has rested, shape it and sprinkle a little powder on the surface. Then roll it out , pat it out and fold it . Press the bottom edge thinly and apply the cheese filling. Roll it up from top to bottom. Then pinch the bottom edge tightly and place it in a baking pan. Leave it to ferment at 35 degrees. If the room temperature is suitable, room temperature is fine. Place it on a surface twice as big and brush with egg. Then use scissors to cut 6 times and put it in the oven to bake. Put it on the lower shelf of the oven and bake it at 200-210 degrees and then at 180 degrees for about 12 minutes. I saw that it was not baked and it cracked on the side like this. Normally , novices may wonder whether I didn't wrap it properly and the stuffing leaked. If you make a few at a time and they all look like this, then it's definitely not a problem . There must be one that is wrapped properly so it doesn't leak. If it leaks, it should be seamed from the bottom. Leakage rather than cracking on the sides. Based on my rich experience of making thousands of breads, I can tell you that this is usually caused by not enough slack, gluten, too tight , or the kneading is not done properly , or there are shaping issues. Rolling too tight usually causes the most cracking on the sides. If it is not relaxed enough, the solution is to extend the relaxation time. After the relaxation is in place, it will not shrink very much when you roll it. Also, when you roll the dough, don't roll it too hard. Rolling it too hard will also cause the dough to break. The gluten was too tight. When I made it the second time, I extended the relaxation time and adjusted the tightness so that there would be no problem. The bread would not crack at all. This bread tasted chewier and had a dense texture . The filling is a combination of sweet and sour and is very delicious. The recipe is from the book &quot;Teacher Meng's 100 Breads&quot;. I originally made this bread once when I learned to make bread more than ten years ago. At that time, I thought it was very good. Now that I have made it for the second time, I still think it is very delicious. If you are interested, you can try it and it is very simple to make.