President, this branch is ready for you My ex-girlfriend Jiang 17 let them break up I have more important things to do Hi. Welcome Excuse me, you are wall dong. what are you doing here? A good ex should be like dead. I came to buy things Ha, ha, ha, kiss Our side are top custom suits Acquaintances can also give you a 20% discount, oh It's still the same as before. Work is more important than me. Now you're the one that matters to me After all, the customer is God. Take off your clothes and I'll measure your size Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah It's not like I didn't kiss you before. Two, no, no, no I still remember your three-inch, three-year-old and five-year-old, so put on your clothes quickly. Court summons, what did you do? I forgot The defendant who paid the property fee could not afford the property fee and came to make up for my performance. President Sorry, your property is too high I missed a set of property fees, got it. I see you ah Also don't charge big money the clothes here are too expensive It just so happens that we are applying for a 50% discount on employees. How to apply. In-situ induction The big customer came and came with 20 dishes. Long time no see, you really have a good eye This skirt is specially reserved for VIP guests. That's a lot better on you, isn't it? I also bought this dress at your home Lin Tai I remember when you bought this dress You also say blue is your lucky color You still remember this, I still remember your favorite long tight skirt, right Bring those three pieces to Lin Tai, oh Okay, hey I seem to have seen you on the Forbes Rich List He's on our sales here. That's right. You look like someone who could be on Forbes. Expensive Ha ha ha ha, really? Really, I have a few good sisters who pay for three sets each. Okay, hey Lin too slow walk As long as you return Forbes to Jiang 17, you are remarkable again, aren't you I am the manager You embarrassed me in front of my clients What embarrasses you is your unprofessionalism. Yo Your professional Then you can give me the total sales of the 5 million in one month. If you can't finish it, the small country will go away. Oh, you don't know Elder sister, once the highest month sold 10 million Well, what I just said is not a month. I'm talking about an hour Tolfa Who let me be the manager? What I say is what The countdown begins. I 'd like to see how good you are. It is impossible to achieve such a high goal I'll call the client What if a miracle happens? No wonder I never forgot him Hey, Sister Wang A new number has recently arrived in our store. Okay, okay, one minute What phone call Pack your things and get out of here. Hey. Earthquake, what happened? Maybe a miracle has come Hey. What are you going to do? Our president said he wanted everything from this store. The performance belongs to him, what a wonderful ah That's not worth tens of millions It seems that you don't have to go. Who is your president? When have I ever served such a domineering guest? Bye. Listen to 17, you're lucky. Hard work, hard work. What are you doing here? Get this up there. Ah ah ah, I come, I come, I come, I come It's okay. I'll do it You guys are kind to him, huh As soon as he sells, he doesn't have to be so nervous. Ouch Tired not tired ah, tired But the thought of seeing the dog manager get slapped in the face. This, but the sun is too big outside today. I guess I'm getting tanned again. This is for you, but my grateful heart When I send a bonus, I will invite you to dinner. And the bonus want to be beautiful As a manager I am very responsible to tell you The chief executive will come to the store tomorrow to commend the title and bonus of the crown. Of course it's mine I think you smoke first, eh Don't get your hands dirty, he'll regret it Why haven't you turned black in the sun every day? I feel white. The president is here. Alas, here it comes The president is here. Is your love is de Oh, the president is looking forward to the stars How is it you Do you have unemployment insurance? What do you mean Because you're going to lose your job for the rest of your life, you're banned. Zixin congratulates you on becoming the sales champion. After you became the store, you went through the president. I have changed a lot. But what I don't change is I still like you Ah ah ah ah Your coffee, hey Do you have 30? 30 I'm only 25 Break up NO NO NO NO NO oh NO oh Damn, how did you get the scene of breaking up with beginning of winter? This woman who ah Sleeping and drooling You said he was Li Zong's predecessor. So not classy, no wonder Li always kicked it The president is here. Whoa, president. Hello. This is the milk tea I bought for you. My sister-in-law can't drink cold. So this is hot milk tea I can't drink without pearls. So the independent packaging of pearls does not affect the taste When you become the president, buy me milk tea. The house and the car are all here. Ah. I'm the one who knows you best. Get back together. You can get your license now. Who said you know me best? So you know what I'm thinking right now What? Good horses don't eat back, this I didn't really guess President, I really love you You transferred Jiang 17 from the store to the headquarters and you were so sweet to her. He's still ungrateful. This is too much. I like ginger 17. It's not your turn to say Aha The president is so protective of him, it seems that he likes to be a girl. I will also Jiang Renjie, accompany me to the dinner tonight Costume artist, makeup artist, I'm ready for you. I won't go to my great uncle and aunt's dog to give birth. I don't have time to see you again. Hey, you just left Otherwise, why not? It's a big deal for dogs to have children. How can we go empty-handed? How also have to bring a red envelope I follow the 100000 This is also OK Since you're not going to the party, I'm not going either. That who, you go to the dinner for me I'm not going either I'm in a bad mood President, you may not know I am also a lot of what ha Small, right? Your bonus this month is gone. Not sisters, what kind of operation are you doing? This gives me dry confused Although the president is fierce to me But he remembered me Looks like the president's about to get deeper and deeper into me. 17, summer has arrived. I bought you a car for fear of getting a tan. Am I not? You're OK Then you give me a smoke Can you guess the riddle, you don't have something so good Of course I want to be alone. Well, wow, wow, wow Hum Li always likes this kind of woman who always says no. I learned, guys. This is our big client Zhang Zong Xiao told Zhang Zong about the plan. No, I'm salty today Don't want to talk oh What does that mean? Then you go and get the printed box No, I can't touch the printer for my new manicure recently. You give me out, don't I don't feel like walking today Oh. Ha ha, sorry I took him to the hospital to have a look if he ate badly. Today thanks to 17, defuse the crisis Reward 500000 But you have another direct dismissal. It turns out that you are the number 3, I can't die Then I'll let Jiang 17 do a big job Everybody don't go Today, Chief Li's office lost valuables. A red box, have you seen it? Why don't you go through everyone's bags? What right do you have to go through other people's bags? Hum You should not be guilty Let me see what you're looking You said bring 97. Why is it in your bag? So you stole it You dare to talk nonsense again Can I beat your medical insurance to arrears? You stepped on the total bottom line of chestnut You're dead. What's going on? Wei Zong Jiang 17 stole your things He's been lawless by your favor before. And now it's stealing. I told you, I have no conclusive evidence Who believes what you said? I believe 17 wouldn't do that. Mr. Li turned this thing out of his bag. You want proof, right? President Chen, as you expected. Things are little thieves The security guard took Mr. Li away. Why are you doing this to protect Jiang's morale? Yes Why are you so defending me Don't you think I'm good at it? I know you are deliberately magnifying your shortcomings and trying to scare me away. But it's really possible that I'll be like this one day. And I'm not as virtuous as you think. We'll have a lot of companies with thousands of people in charge. Can't I deal with your work? In the future, you can do whatever you want in front of me. And I 've already enrolled in classes to learn the subtext of girls. Then I'll test you. I don't want to see you again. Roll right in front of me Give me another two hours every five minutes. I have to make up. Then you know what I mean by this book You haven't learned this. I must have said I love you hundreds of years ago. Today is the 100 day anniversary of our reunion to send you a gift I 've had my eye on this bag for a long time This bag is not inside the real donkey yet Wow. The gold necklace is so beautiful I, how did he like a key locked in your that right The couple's money is locked on the gate of 204 Sheshan Manor. Uh-huh. 0.1 billion mansion you are too good Can you reward me with a kiss? Well, oh no. I'm going to inspect the shops. Let's go first. Let's go first. The person I love is a career brain. The boss is good The boss's turnover is not high today But we will definitely work overtime Completed overtime will only lead to a vicious circle Get off work early today Tomorrow to the best face of customer service Thank you, boss. No thanks, let's go Zhang 17, Xiaomei is really you You're a lot whiter than before. But you are the most unlucky person in our class. Are you a little regretful now What do you mean? Your ex-boyfriend Lidong is now the president. You could have been the president's wife. But you're a waiter now Did you find a fortune teller calculated Are you poor in life? The college entrance examination, yeah Forgive him. Forgive him, let me serve you. What do you want to buy I want to buy shoes My boyfriend is rich. I want him to help me If you don't serve well, I see how I can complain about you. Haha, you got it wrong He's our old waiter. Take a break over there and come right away. The boss gave you a good lesson today Take out all the things that can't be sold in the store. Come on, come on, come on You can try these shoes Are you going to stand and serve me? Oh. Are you satisfied with kneeling and wearing shoes for you? Hum This pair is carefully selected by me. Try it on It's really suitable, is it a little expensive? How much is 1250? Ha-ha-ha You are really poor laugh In my life, ah I haven't worn shoes with less than 10000 yuan. Look at my mouth Change this pair for a high price in the current season. Absolutely worthy of your identity this looks good, how much is 30000 Uh-huh, uh-huh, is there anything else It must be too cheap Is it 50000 that people with this pair of handmade custom-made clothes are either rich or expensive? These two pairs are good Let me see something else, yo All these years have passed You are still using this 200 or 300 of Chinese goods Do you look down on domestic products? Still look down on 200 or 300 dollars I think you're really brainwashed by consumerism. This side is full of essence ingredients. Anyway, expensive is good I have always used international brands. With so many international brands, it has no effect at all. I am several degrees whiter than you Oushiman is a product specially researched by Chinese people, and the effect is better. You have a point Then give me this I'll think about the shoes again. I want them. Go to Ou Shengman's studio to buy it yourself. You don't have to think about shoes. Just now I sent those two pairs of shoes to my classmates. Let everyone help you with your reference Everyone said you could win both pairs. What's wrong with you You don't have the money to buy it I, ah It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I will tell my classmates now that Xiaomei has no money. Are you the one who can't afford it? I'll call our family darling right now Honey you're finally here, oh I took a fancy to two pairs of shoes. The inexpensive ones are 80000. Swipe your card Jiang 17, see You can't stand here for a year. Honey, buy me two pairs of shoes In your life, you 've only given people their own shoes. Yes Yes Yes Yes Check out here. Keep your card Husband, husband Mei, why are you here? Didn't you say you were at home? I... I'll choose a gift for the client Hey, miss Where are you going You just spent $80000. This gentleman has already paid for you. Here is your receipt, OK Are you and my husband so shameless at a young age? Shame on you Jiang 17, do you want to see my joke I'm telling you, you won't embarrass her. It was her man who was robbed of his wife by me, I NO NO NO, you didn't rob my man You rob is my trouble Anyway, the card he swiped is mine The money spent is mine too. Just wait for the court summons. You Thank you for reminding me I want everything in your store Help me pack it and send it to my house. Okay, rich lady sister My mother told you not to go away, bitch Why did you step on my foot?Ah. Jiang 17, you stinking waiter I'm going to file a complaint against you right now Call your boss to call the boss What's wrong with the boss? I'm right here Uh-huh. What are you trying to say You are the boss No way, this is Lidong's shop This is indeed my store manager Li But mine is the 17 of you. She's my wife now The turnover was not good today. I have to thank you for sending me such a big order. All the staff present today 20000 a bonus each. Wow Thank you old.