Welcome back to the Gentleman's look at the difference between Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song Obviously, there's an $1800 gap so the are the hallmarks of a $200 suit versus a $2,000 all aspects of them so you get the perfect kind of sacrifices do you have to make with a make sacrifices in terms of quality. There's think? Well, there's certain fixed costs. You have infrastructure like a shop or an online storefront, and get a custom suit at that price point, unless like India for example. In order to get to the $200 that won't age as well; you have to accept a fused make you more hot when you wear it. [clip from &quot;Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy&quot;] Some brands even offer $200 suits, where there's things like Jos. A. Bank, Men's Wearhouse, or H&amp;M. They're or Lauren by Ralph Lauren. But, hey, does it get Primark offer suits in $100 range. A few years back, quality; but with inflation, increased material, and something that's really worth your money. Of course, learn how you can make your dollar spread further Brooks Brothers or Hugo Boss now have suits in get the quality that that price once commanded. Obviously, their are ready-to-wear brands. Think of Paul Stewart, N. Peal, Canali, and so forth. In higher quality, but not every suit is worth its brand is the biggest bank for the buck, check out suit brands against each other. Now, the nice part to go ready-to-wear; you can go made-to-measure, and in territory. That means you get the fabric you want, you want, and all that with a fit that is hopefully in mind that the terms &quot;custom,&quot; &quot;made-to-measure,&quot; or If you want to understand the differences, check options available online. You can also find local find a local master tailor who will maybe make you $2,000 won't buy you the best suit in the world, elaborate handwork, but you will get something that comfortable to wear. Now, just because a suit is at a higher standard than a ready-to-wear suit, and suit can be made to a much higher quality standard watch the Gentleman's Gazette, so you can identify look for so you don't get scammed. Lastly, you could really expensive suits from Kiton, Brioni, Isaia, and you're open to the secondhand market you can find like eBay. So, if you spend $2,000, we strongly If you prefer to go to what you see is what you brands can always commend a higher price for the you have to decide what is worth it to you and just want your style to be jaw-dropping, not your have about two to three manhours go into sewing traffic for longer than that. The work will be done general, machines are good and even for suits, for way to go. It's much more cost efficient. However, is nice because the seam is more flexible and in a $200 suit, the sleeve is sewn on all in one shell fabric, and you have the shoulder petting, so it's less flexible and less comfortable. If takes longer, it's more expensive, but you will a $200 suit, you will get very simplified patterns. have two buttons. There's no extra details - no a flat front or maybe they have one pleat. It's The rise will typically be low, which is less that really won't help you because those type of said, I was positively surprised to see a $200 H&amp;M In fact, it fits me better than many other much more case. Typically, I can hardly ever wear the pants we were able to buy a different size for the pants a 44 regular and my pants were 38 regular. Another is that their upper sleeves are quite tight. So or if you move your arms, you will feel much more not enough drape of your shoulder blades in the the front on your sleeves but also in your back, $200 H&amp;M suit had somewhat tighter upper sleeves it to my personal preferences, but it wasn't in the past that were ready-to-wear in that $200 jacket, you typically also see much more of a not that bad. Compare that to the $2,000 jacket. but a $200 does just fine, especially compared to suits, you may not know how to distinguish between can look under the collar and you'll see if it was if it was machine sewn with great regular stitches. of a suit that walks you through step-by-step on one. Now, in a $2,000 suit, there's typically more into a suit. If you want to buy a made in the USA in a suit of comparable quality to something wearing a $2,000 made-to-measure suit that was made a Harrisons of Edenborough flannel fabric, and it has a very similar houndstooth pattern in the H&amp;M one. inside the jacket on the sleeves and how they're compare things like the button holes, for example, a $2,000 suit. The $200 suit is machine made and a nice silk thread and beautiful. With the $2,000 some shooting pleats on the side, I wanted a they have a little pleat for extra volume when I element. I also chose a three-roll-two silhouette; suit. Also, in a $2,000 suit, I chose to go with a H&amp;M at $200. Maybe you're lucky if you have a matching kind of stuff. Next up, let's look at a fabric and shell that is made of 67% polyester, 31% viscose, and comfortable to wear, and when I first touched the rather soft. I could tell the $200 suit wasn't luxuriously soft, but still, it felt pretty good. The mill called Harrisons. It is a really nice wool- and is perfect for a more casual suit, like the one $200 suit has polyester, which is a very cheap easily. The $2000 suit has a Bemberg lining in a nice on the fabric, you see a different color, which is the best suit lining because it is anti-static, For a $200 suit, I would have expected a worse, more have expected less freedom of movement, and I would suit, it wears hotter than the 100% wool suit. It nice. Of course, the material composition - it being more poorly and wear out prematurely compared to when you look at the label and it says it's 100% example, without having to disclose that. Reputable forth won't do that; what's on the label will be suit, you typically have a brand name fabric where you will find not just the manufacturer's label proud to display the quality maker of the fabric. being said, just because one fabric is made at one same quality as something something else that was in mind that having a certain label like VItale Barberis, a certain minimum quality level that is pretty Holland &amp; Sherry are the same. Because you need you will never find a quality cloth label in a the retail price of that suit. Yes, it is true you renowned mills and get a huge discount compared suit. What does that mean? If you mass produce That would cost $200 or more if you just This is also the reason reason why most which may be $800 or $1,000. But you will only the fabric that they stock; everything else they price. So, if $2,000 is too much for you and you're stock fabrics to save you some money, so you can comes to any suit, fit is king, and we'll show you you have to budget for alterations when you buy suit that is all included. Now, a $2,000 suit will you to make alterations and make things bigger. hardly no excess fabric, so all you can do is make difference between a $200 and a $2,000 suit is the Why do you need it? Well, basically, when you start, three-dimensional and so, in order for the fabric layer of fabric that keeps the outer shell in want to learn more about it, we have a dedicated a layer that is glued onto the outer shelf fabric but it also is uncomfortable because it limits you wear it. Personally, I run hot so I hate a suit over time that glued interlining is more likely to and wrinkles on your suit, especially if you wear $200 suit will look unsightly much more quickly fix or repair an interlining that is coming off. [Raphael mourning a suit] No, it also doesn't conform as well to the body. That being said, on this $200 suit, I felt point. Once I put on the $2,000 jacket though, I hard for you to see but you have to trust me on either find a half-canvas construction or They're typically layers of horsehair, cotton, or What are the advantages of a floating canvas that it breathes and it's more flexible so it moves overheat as much. Also, the jacket drapes more nicely which was custom made for me has a fully floating you what this one looks like. But we've done it before so by a Strobel machine, which is a German machine and and it cuts down the process of what may take 10 the glued interlining will typically also lead $2,000 suit, where you have a nice lapel roll. It's it. When it comes to the pattern, there is usually and a $2,000 suit. The $200 suit typically comes boxy with a bigger armhole, so they accommodate a suit, on the other hand, can take a pattern, the armhole, making sure it's as comfortable as it front-to-back balance when you look at your suit a jacket that is longer in the front and shorter have that issue, unless there is a good fitter who the jacket and create more level look. Typically, You may get skinnier lapels than a $2,000 suit or suit. So, at the end of the day, a person who really yield a result that's much more pleasing than good alterations tailor, they won't work all their as the $2,000 suit. When it comes to details, the suit. Here, the $200 suit doesn't even have a lapel mill button hole that is raised and elegant. Also, suit, you can see that they are sewn first and much less expensive, but it's not as beautiful as a it comes to trimmings - which are the threads, the with the cheapest possible thing, which typically that is maybe made to look like a natural material materials - typically horn buttons, corozo buttons, Depending on the style of your suit, you'll also be done by hand or by an AMF machine, which you suit, you can also influence the details when you have three sleeve buttons instead of four, and I vintage feel, which was in line with the fabric of the jacket. By the way, if you want to to learn you bought a $200 suit in the early 2000s, chances if you moved your arms in combination with a [clip from &quot;The Waterboy&quot;] In recent years, that has changed a little shoulder padding. Now, if you compare may have a little more but the materials of that in a $200 suit. Why does it matter? Well, on and it won't keep the shape as nicely as on the a $2,000 suit costs ten times as much as a $200 $2,000 suit, it will flatter you more, and it Now, if $200 is your max budget, I suggest you look garment that is more in the $2000 range at your the quality at the budget that works for you. That H&amp;M suit. I had done no alterations and this is how fit and feel you can get for $200. Although, I'm long and it won't age gracefully. The $2,000 years. I can tell there maybe some areas where they hit the gym harder or I have to have to visit alterations and make things bigger versus, on the wearing a three-piece suit from Hemrajani. It has shoulder pleats and a half-belted back. It has this pairing it with a shirt from Spier &amp; Mackay that is as well as a green, wool-silk pocket square just like this light, pinkish, cherry blossom silk also from Fort Belvedere, and on my feet, I'm wearing from Loake 1880. On my pinky, I have a nice ring green tourmaline with an art nouveau-style setting of my outfit and the green elements, I chose the Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song