Hello, believe Nation. I started the MentorMe people who've done a lot more than us by surrendering usual to get their ideas and wisdom and the limited beliefs and become the best version So today we're gonna learn from Wayne Dyer if he says something that is really relevant comments below and put quotes around it so And these top 10 principles, uh, that I have might want to jot down, you might want to a little piece of paper. But I think if you they come from someone who's had a burning which I have felt independent of the opinions or shouldn't be doing that there's something rather than looking outside to see if this And so let me just kind of, I'll number them some examples of them and you decide whether or not. The first of these principles came century. His name was Tilopa. It's, uh, it's kind of thing that really excites me because 2000 years and reading what some of the greatest uh, the potentiality that each and every one And this first principle says, As to lopa, and attached to nothing. One of the central enough to be a pessimist about anything. And our mind to what is possible for us, or what that resides and lives in each and every one Having an open mind doesn't necessarily mean, you've been taught by others. It means opening that anything and everything is possible. and attached to nothing really means finding a trait that I find so common in contemporary, Do you know that most people that I meet spend They actually are up out there hoping that and there's no shortage of reasons. They're dressed, the what the worst person said, they offended by this. Someone didn't, uh, someone used language the same customs that you and people all day you will find, uh, probably a hundred reasons a mind that is open to everything and attached looking for anything to be offended by. And that whatever anybody else out there has interesting point of view. I've never considered for a, uh, morning television show, uh, and does it feel to be talking to, uh, audiences these weird things that they come to? And it, it, it intrigues me because one of Emerson said is in one of his very first essays, what are called new views here in New England, new, but the very oldest of thoughts cast And that was in 1842. He was speaking about She said, uh, doesn't it offend you that there's talking about people using crystals to heal response was that if I've got hemorrhoids crystals are gonna heal them, I'm ordering I'm, uh, . Why not? I mean, all you have to and what is a placebo? It's nothing more than and say, this pill is gonna cure your arthritis, pill, but your arthritis disappears, I'm into Where can I get some of those placebos? and think about all the things that we enjoy and who had a mind that wasn't closed to allow is imp is impossible if you always do things But the other word in this, what Telepo said Attachment really means I am diluting myself I can't do this or that thing, then somehow mind that is detached in one of, uh, in my to every problem, I have a, um, an observation, DeMelo, A man I respect enormously. A priest who, um, in the way to love puts relationships, especially the relationships love, not your children, but your spouses on for size one, I am not really attached I am merely diluting myself into the belief two, and here's the toughest test for non-attachment. your thoughts, indulge your tastes, follow decide are to your liking. How's that for And so what most of us do, In our relationships like them to be is that we become attached in a way that I find offensive, then I can't dependent upon those people that I love being And detachment doesn't mean being a victim, my life fulfilled and happy by having a mind The second principle is a very simple principle. have. Now, it sounds ridiculous, okay? But it's more than what meets the ear. As don't have. People who are not good at giving don't have it to give away. If I want to give dozen oranges unless I go out and pick up Otherwise, all it is is just empty rhetoric. in your life. You can't give away love for away. If what you have in here is contempt, you have in here is fear, then these are the life. And I've often thought, and I really believe of a law in the universe. I call it the law one that works like this. You get back from you put out there in the world. And if you I am not worthy of attracting something beautiful back to you with exactly that message. And there are people who come to me and who own, uh, counseling practice and so on. And the same kind of people, the same kind of my life. Why is that? Why do I keep doing And I keep attracting, uh, an absence of, abundance into my life. I'm always behind I suggest to them, I said, did, uh, ever occur you're sending out to the world and out to is there. And you can go to that ocean of abundance it up 20 times a day and take it out of there. ocean of abundance. It doesn't even go down can go to the same ocean of abundance with out once a month and say, that's all that And the interesting thing for me is that when uh, unlimited world, all that I have is nine. is th it's all there for you. But if you believe get so much. That other people are gonna get creating that very same thing. And the even more interesting part about this, is that if your message to the universe is message to the universe, I want this from this. I have to have that. That's what their That's what their message is, you know? And me gimme, gimme the universe's response back the same. The universe will say Right back gimme. And you'll find yourself never, ever always feeling as if you're being neglected. Never feeling as if you have enough. Always you're constantly under the pressure to give, from you. And the interesting thing about if you shift that and you say to the universe, How may I serve? The universe's response back serve you? And it's very intriguing when you what you are demanding from the world. And And it's really the, the basis behind that John Kennedy's, uh, inaugural address. Ask not what your country can ask, what you that is, and I've learned that in my own life, in it for Wayne Dyer and how much could I I help you? How can I give to you? What can And people who write to me pe uh, I send them that needs help with some kind, I'm very often that it just keeps coming back into my life. can I have into, what can I give, it seemed the very same message. What can I give to you? And the most incredible flowed into my life in every way that I can you don't have. So take a look at an inventory yourself? How much kindness do you have in How much peace do you have in you? How much to give that away as many times as you can of that continues to show up and come back one of my very favors. It's called, there And this is a very difficult principle for very strongly in. I was in a group one time was, uh, one of the people that was a sponsor wall said, there are no justified resentments And what I said to that group that, that night No matter what kind of, uh, uh, anger comes you may encounter showing up in your life, that if you carry around resentment inside I'm talking about the person that you lent about the person in your life that you feel I'm talking about the person who walked out talking about all of the things that you have you have the right to be resentful about. will always end up harming you and creating I've often said that you, no one ever dies kill you. You cannot be un bitten. Once you're that continues to pour through your system you. So now you have to take a look at all life. And I'd like to suggest to you that I think I have created in my life for how to make is the one who's responsible for it. All right, There's a show called, uh, who Wants to Be the world. I'm in South Africa, it comes on, got their own Australian version. Um, and uh, who Wants to Be a Millionaire. And basically get to. Now, the first level is the $1,000 level. to answer a question. Like on your hand, you are called your feet, your nose, your ears, on the show has this horrible dread that they're right? So basically, in order to get to the is answer five pretty simple, simple questions level. Now on this program, the thousand dollars you will leave with something. If you get dollars level. You must send blame out of your life. For go. Alright? Now, blame means if you are sitting it's mine. I take responsibility for it. This circumstances in your life, this means if security in your life, this means if your This means that, uh, if your neighbors are the neighborhood, whatever it might be that's across the, this great country across this are willing to say, I am here because of the I'm willing to say that even though it's difficult, know really there's a lot of people out there you're willing to say no blame. That's the no justified resentment. And then on, uh, There is what is called the $32,000 level. for you to walk away with a sizable amount in this program, but it also is the door opener in order to have an opportunity to move into All right, millionaire Spiritual, uh, status. five questions. And this $32,000 question me from a quotation that I used in the writing I read the, uh, a book that was written a the Yoga Sutures, the aphorisms of Paton, observations that this brilliant man made He said, if you become steadfast in your abstentions all living creatures will cease to feel enmity blame. Pretty basic. No more blame. I'm just people for where I am, because now I have If I think someone else caused it, then I've order for me to get rid of it. And you might for it, I can do something including move to do, alright? But at the higher level, when are doing is what St. Francis did. Francesco, what you are doing love in response to hate. You are literally going to be steadfast in my abstention of I'm going to work hard at no matter what comes to come out of me. And that is love. And that is a higher energy. all living creatures will cease to feel enmity precious little girl. I have six precious uh, a little girl who is almost 12 and she my life. I mean, her whole life revolves around animals. Avoid me fly away from people around, and it happens all the time, all living creature. towards any living creature. And Pat potentially to feel fear or enmity or anger in the presence the hate. That's what I mean when I say there are no I'd like to share a little story here with to me by someone who sends me beautiful things and I'd like to read this to you if I can And this story illustrates this as well as years ago of an elementary school teacher. in front of her fifth grade class on the very a lie. Like most teachers, she looked at her the same. But that was impossible because there in the boy named Teddy Stoddard. Mrs. Thompson had that he didn't play well with the other children, needed a bath. Teddy could be unpleasant. It got to the point where Mrs. Thompson would with a broad red pen and making bold Xs, and at the school where Mrs. Thompson taught she And she put Teddy's off until last. However, when she reviewed his file, she was wrote Teddy's a bright child with a ready good manners. He's a joy to be around. His student, well liked by his classmates, but illness and life at home must be a struggle. His third grade teacher wrote His mother's his best, but his father doesn't show much him if steps aren't taken. Teddy's fourth doesn't show up much interest in school. He even sleeps in class. By now, Mrs. Thompson realized the problem worse when her students brought her Christmas and bright paper except for Teddy's. His present that he got from the grocery bag. Mrs. Thompson took pains to open it in the children started to laugh when she found a missing and a bottle that was one quarter laughter when she exclaimed how pretty the of the perfume on her wrist. Teddy Stoddard stayed after school that day you smelled just like my mom used to. After an hour. On the very day, she quit teaching, she began to teach children. Mrs. Thompson As she worked with him and his mind seemed the faster he responded. By the end of the children in the class, and despite her lie, she found a note under the door from Teddy he ever had in his whole life. Six years went by before she got another note high school third in his class, and she was whole life. Four years after that, she got been tough at times, he stayed in school and It would soon graduate from college with the that she was still the very best and favor four more years passed, and yet another letter got his bachelor's degree, he decided to go The letter explained that she was still the now his name was a little longer. The letter story doesn't end there. You see, there was he'd met this girl and it was gonna be married. He explained that his father had died a couple Thompson might agree to sit in the place at the mother of the groom. Of course, Mrs. Thompson the one with, uh, several rhinestones missing, that Teddy remembered his mother wearing on Together, they hugged each other and Dr. Stoddard so much for making me feel important and showing came with tears in her eyes and whispered the one who taught me that I could make a I didn't know how to teach until I met you. That symbolizes, there are no justified resentments where the only thing you have to send is love message of our greatest spiritual teachers. next principle I called, don't die with your And who better to quote than Thoreau right of us hear a different drummer and we must you, everybody watching everybody here in music playing and all of you have a heroic There's no accidents in this universe. We intelligence that is a part of everything, it and too many of us are afraid to listen I know you have a book you wanted to write. I know there's a composition you wanted to sing someplace. Maybe you wanna raise horses up an ice cream shop on Cape Cod. Who knows and see the world. Maybe you want to go into afraid to, but your heart says it's the right All of us feel something. And in Leo told He asked this question that would be terrifying Moscow lying on his deathbed, contemplating life has been wrong? I've known what my music It's playing right now. As I stand here in place, and as I sit down and write my books I feel always completely on purpose and fulfilled. my life and say, what if my whole life has Whoever you are, whatever that music is, however weird others may interpret it to be, don't you're going to leave and not have it played It's the message of, uh, the greatest teachers It's the message I give to you today as one your life. The next principle I call embracing I say this to you because it's so important dear friend and many of you know, we've put We've appeared on stages all over the world is Dr. Deepak Chopra. A medical doctor and is going on in my family, if I'm having a in my own life, and if I call him up and I'll what do you think I should do? He always has the same answer. Meditate, I'll say, yes, Deepak. I understand meditate, go deep inside and meditate. Always meditate. I say, all right. And you know, I've learned about getting quiet and getting peaceful is and it doesn't matter what you call it. You can call it soul, spirit, consciousness. it anything that you want, but as Alan Watts It's not what we call something that gives one force that flows through everything and You can't cut it in half. You can't divide in your life is almost always given a division. white, good, bad, up, down. These are all we all have in our lives. The whole physical it's always immersed in this division. I used to teach course at St. John's University when I was trying to teach this principal, them a magnet that only has a North Pole. ever have to attend another class. And no , there was always the South Pole because But we have to learn to fuse the dichotomies blending the want. That's what silence does powerful because no matter how many times still only get silence. And then they say that holds the tiger. And it's the silence between the notes that out of my mouth right now come out of the it means that you go to the place within you divide the source, the one, the spirit, you It's only one. So when you go into your silence you begin to make this a part of your life this is where you'll come to know your source. I can't tell you how many people that have illnesses, who've been giving, given diagnoses who have gone out to the wilderness and have And the Transcendentalists, Thoreau and Emerson, that we were all products of nature. And if get back to that feeling of being with spirit. And I've had wonderful stories of people who've that silence, that I began to feel more connected Embrace silence. Because it's a way to come indivisible and the only experience you can to a spiritual awake awakening is silence. history. And I learned it from a man named Um, one day he said, I finally realized that just like drinking, he said, I gave it up. in the world. You know, the nice thing about you don't have a story, you don't have to All of us have these bags, a manure that we the people who have done things to us and stuff that we use and we bond to, and we bond identify ourself on the basis of these wounds. And every once in a while, we set it down over ourselves, . And then we wonder, why this. When in fact, the now, this moment, may have been in a relationship. I had a woman husband had left her after 25 years. She had four children and she just had been weight and she was depressed and she was taking sicker and sicker because she just couldn't that I was doing at a bookstore down in Florida to me. You've got to say something to me that will line. I said, give up your personal history. And those 25 years are something if you want past as, oh, this hat, and this is your past You can't just set this thing down over here history because you'll always have it there your past and you embrace it, you understand these things that I had to go through in order And the evidence for that is that I did. You then you toss it. You toss it, you embrace now by giving up your attachment. And some wake. Alan Watts talked about the wake is The wake is just a trail that is left behind. life. And the wake doesn't make the boat go reason why your life is going in the direction behind and it's an illusion to believe that Of your suffering or your struggles or your it, understand it. Get help doing that if principle I call, it's from a line of, uh, a problem with the same mind that created In order to work at solving these things called your mind. It is your mind where they live. is where you experience them. They're all rewrite your agreement with reality. One of the things I had said earlier is that the world is to admit that you were wrong. than saying, I have been making choices with that are not working, and I no longer intend I was wrong. You don't have to make a declaration about it. You just simply say, it didn't work. in these ways, I didn't realize that it wasn't I choose to be. Now, the secret of a successful you put your attention and your energy in you don't love. Robert Frost said it so beautifully. We love what they are, not for what they ought to what they are. So when you look into the eyes it's your children, you catch them doing things That's often ta takes a lot of hunting, but relationship isn't working, remember, it's person? And if I could just change my mind person and keep them there, that makes the And there are people who go through their no hatred, no bitterness, and only love. The as if you already were what you would like front of your life and you see yourself as have and deserve to have. My children know how to do this perfectly. and the prom dress was way outside the budget well, I thought a prom dress shouldn't cost I upped to somewhere around 250. I don't know To me, it was still more than I paid for my and said, dad, this is the only prom desk this prom desk. Don't wear this prom desk. wonderful. You know, I've got a, I saw a wonderful The title of it is Get Out Of My Life. But right. That's a, that's the actual title. uh, it's just beyond the budget. I've got to put for it. And, and she said, but I've I've already tried it on. I have a picture and I've already showed it to the guy who's whole thing about, and she already saw herself it, then you're gonna have to also see yourself willing to pay And she drew up a contract. She went out to computer, you know where they have these little pictures of the dress, all right. And she I'll do this. I'll do that, and I will pay And she did. And she wore the dress because if you already are what you'd like to become. yourself as if you already were that genius, of. See yourself as already there. Then you'll to every action said Emerson is a thought. The next principle is called treasuring your a wonderful observation that I saw from, uh, trusting your divinity, knowing that you are are a divine creation, and that there are He said, A man should learn to detect and his mind from within more than the luster dismisses without notice his own thought, we recognize our own rejected thought. They come back to us with a certain alienated we see the things that we think of as grand they're our own treasuring, our divinity. that I am always connected to my source, there and I am in you, and you are in me. And you can never be separated from it. There everybody's fingernails. It beats everybody's all the flowers and you're always connected wisdom is avoiding all thoughts which weaken You know, every thought has an energy just if you have a thought of shame, it will weaken a muscle. If you raise a child who believe time they think that shameful thought, they And if you have a thought of fear, and if a thought of anguish and anxiety, all of these will always weaken you. When you are having you shift it. Shift it to one that is empowering And the thoughts that empower our thoughts ultimately thoughts of divinity. And when struggling at the highest level of unity consciousness you recognize yourself in all that you see But for the grace of God, go, I, and I am I appeared on the, uh, tonight Show many years I remember coming home from the Tonight Show, had taped the show the night before. And I And a woman who lived in, uh, the northeast last night on the, how could you be here? walking along and she said, you know, we're people like here? What's it like? And I said you live? She said, well, she said, uh, I live in a pushy and people are not very kind, and they it's really not very pleasant. She said, that's well, that's pretty much what you're gonna That's basically what the people are like else who had seen me the night before on the stopped me and asked me almost the same question. said, what? My husband and I are moving here She said, what are the people like here? What's in, uh, Chicago, where you live? She said, people are very friendly. They're open. They They're very kind. She said, it's a wonderful She said, I love them. I'm gonna really miss gonna find here, . It's what you expect. It's Emerson taught us. The ancestor to every action change your world, change your expectations, and see showing up in your life. You are the sum total of all of the choices about yourself or your life that you don't you, is to be looked at in terms of can I this wrong? See, the two ways to motivate says where I am, I don't like, I don't like I don't like the fact that I can't do this these things in my own repertoire, and then deficiencies, always assuming that I'm deficient, trying to fix it. And when you do that, you never arrive because your life becomes a series And it is if you follow that, if you live happens to you is you become a person who more. You always have to have more because go, let's say you want a hundred thousand and you deny yourself, and you do all of those and here you are, you got a hundred thousand All of this stuff over here is of course your you know how to, that's how you are. That So that when you do get here, what you will no limit person is never operating from. deficiency or from lack in their life, they're You see, you're never going to get enough. that you need. Think of it for just a moment. perfection of your life. You already are. with nothing. That's how you're going out. And the time that you have here, it, what and you don't need anything else. Now think what you have and where you are in your life, do get something else, you won't know how You'll just want more or you'll want it to way it used to be. Or you'll want someone Successful people, or no limit people or self-actualizing you, whatever labels that have been put on therapists and people, uh, that have, uh, These kinds of people are people who always invite them over and you say, um, you know, over tonight and I'd, I'd like you to stay back. And they'll say, well, can you say, And I'll say, well, I don't know if I can cot. Oh, no, no. I could never sleep on the I got a sciatica. Don't you know, than I have that's out of the question. I couldn't sleep Well, we don't have any food, but, um, we uh, in the, uh, refrigerator. They have a grapefruit on, on spots. No thanks. I can't You know? Uh, and these are people who, uh, They are, are not able to be flexible and say, would you like to sleep over? Uh, we great. I can handle that. No problem. I slept grapefruit. Oh, I love grapefruit. Well, we I'm, oh, I really like grapefruit spots. Those are some people who can handle anything, not different. You see, your circumstances have life. Very little. It's, it's how you're approaching It's your attitude towards your circumstances and taking what you are and accepting it. camera can get this. This is a little, uh, Press, uh, for, uh, last September. I was in Detroit, and it says, uh, Dr. Wayne Dyer will talk about your inner child in all relationships. And it was a real nice in the same. There's another ad , and the right on top of my ad. There's no hiding from with a box over his head, and they have a before and after guy there. fulfillment. And it says you can't run and unless you take action, it will continue. of, uh, what I can do with this and how I See, my daughter helped me with being bald really bald. Don't think of yourself that taller than your hair. That's all . Which just sort of outgrew my hair, sort of transcended No limit. People are human beings who take themselves that somehow they're deficient This is a very crucial, uh, concept for, for idea of taking your life in your own hands to be, and understanding that everything that And it wasn't until. I learned how to celebrate I was able to transcend it. You see, everything that was given to us by can deny. The mountains are perfect and the and the hippopotamus are perfect, and, and, us. Everything else that you have on our planet, a result of thinking, thinking, thought makes This microphone comes about as a result of tells somebody else about, and it's, and it this shirt that I'm, the shoes that you have, you see that wasn't given to us was created the way that we think. So what gets inside of us as a cell comes to think in our lives. Very important principle of thinking and that it creates everything and make it as absolutely perfect as you want Because thought makes it so creative. Visualization imagery or the image that you have of anything It's like going out and practicing. If you uh, free throws over and over again. That's physical practice. Imagery is mental an image that you can succeed at some, at can do it, rather than that, you can't do an image that you're going to find a parking to park. So you're not looking for no place to park. have very much like you will start acting shooting baskets or when you're hitting a else that you're doing. Bucky Fuller, who Council for nine years, who died not too long touch, you can't see, you can't smell. 99% of you is untouchable, unsellable, and your conscious awareness. It's your, it's is that? It isn't. It isn't cells. It's some And make no mistake about it, you've occupied Now, this is not reincarnation talk, although ask me if I believe in it. I said, well, I city of Detroit for four years, and I saw three o'clock. . So I believe in reincarnation. All right, Now, if what you, if 99% of who you are, you smell, then where, what is it? Who is it? essence or who you are and where does it go? a little baby girl who's, uh, 11 months old Well, it's only a body about this big. Got tiny, tiny little parts all over the place. her? Is that her essence? Because I have other older than that. And I can remember being me, still my essence there. Different body, totally different. Doesn't old and then I was 13 and had a funny body a whole new body. Hairs growing all over the of things happening to it, you know? Then You know, looking at those hairs that fall know, ? No, no. I don't even understand that. in many, many bodies already. All right? And that is alive, can never die, but can never Life doesn't die. It just transforms. It just New ways of being. And the way of being that that comes from seeing yourself as love and that to give away. Let's say I would stand for a moment that I have an orange, and I as I can squeeze it, okay? What's gonna come out? Juice. What kind of . Once in a while. Come on now. And then little a while. No mistakes, right? Never. No matter are easy. Okay. Why? When you squeeze an orange juice come out? Because that's not, cuz it's an orange because when you squeeze something, what comes out All right? Does it matter if your mother squeezes she uses? Does it matter if you just had your Does it matter if your boss squeezes it? How an orange? Does it your kid squeezing on? day? Suppose they do it at noon. All right? matter? Whenever you squeeze an orange, the No arguments. Same thing works for you. Same of the universe. All right? Someone squeezes Someone says things about you that you don't Whatever your boss says, something to you anger. And out of you comes hatred. And out of you of you comes tension. Why? Is it because of Is it because of your mother? I mean, she it because of your children? Now, what comes is what's inside. This is the, the vital principle of being this and understand that that. If you have world or any anger or any fear or any of those of the world. It only has to do with what Now, how does what gets inside of you get As you think, only as you think you see, there's the world. There's no tension. It's perfect. It works just fine. It's all flowing the way The evidence for it is, it is . That's all Everything out there is a miracle. Everything all perfect and everything that happens to it's a disease, whether it's somebody treating all of it. No limit. People understand the lesson in It's true. And when you get to that point things that come your way and blaming the blaming it on somebody else, and you hear that possible? How can anybody hurt your feelings? Your feelings come from your thoughts. No No one can make a fool of you without your your consent. These are choices that you have calls you a name, hey, stupid, and you turn I didn't even tell anybody I was coming. How you blame the person who called you a name That's just where they are. That's where they are in relationships, right? Everybody has in your relationship. You have any problems, have any problems. , I'd like you to take to you . Everybody in a relationship has problems, a relationship, I got problems, therefore, Something's really wrong right? Now. If you're something is wrong, you gotta call in a consultant, you with the problems. You don't want the in? You only got yourself, that's all you You might get a therapist once in a while, only consultant who can help you with your that you're calling in? We've already established right? Something wrong. So now you're gonna your problems in your relationship right? Now, this is a really sick approach to curing we got a problem. You don't talk to me. I last week, and this week I called you and you, and then you didn't do it. And how can Now, this is the consultant you're calling. no, I can help you. Come on. Good . That's . All right? Now what you can do is you can in a relationship. We got problems. That's There's nothing wrong with that. That's the you are different than I am and you think than I do. And you smell different than I here that I don't have nothing wrong with That's the way it is. When two people get two people becoming one. If you do that, then who wants a half a person in a relationship. and for you know, and involved in relationship You're still always you. Your unique, special, who is love, who lives love, who is being God, will you please help me with my problems You've got to be God. Not be afraid to carry healed. You have got to understand that you're not else to heal you. And ask any doctor that somebody into surgery and ask them which person say, serious surgery. Is it the one who has Or is it the one who's just given up and the Alright, but the person who has that will, get a bucket full of will and bring it in It's a belief, all right? That you can do And when you have that belief about yourself, opportunity to be well in your life. And a ever thought of that. Uh, I watch, uh, a little and she's holding onto the edge of the pool and it's just, uh, five feet or six feet, again and she'll let go and she'll hold on And finally there comes a time when she, lets you've seen this with your children, you've moment before that, when she was holding on, she have any different skills? What's changed? Yeah. Yeah. The skills are, she didn't have in that second. What she has is a belief that you really just believe that you can do it, think about it now, do you know how to swim? Yeah. So when you dive into the water, you you dive into the water, you can swim. You anything like that. Or when you get on a bicycle, you believe you can't, because you've never it and done it, told a story of a patient she didn't know how to ride a bicycle. Mm, yeah. Gail, who came to me many years ride a bicycle because her mother wouldn't And she had these beautiful big white teeth could fall and break your teeth, and I wouldn't So here she was now in her thirties and, uh, she was in therapy. And, um, I said to her, going? I said, well, I've got a bicycle downstairs bike. I'm gonna have you teach yourself how And she said, look, I didn't come here to you to have. You teach me how to ride a bicycle. oh, well, you're gonna need. 30 seconds of is because you never got yourself on a bicycle. And until you do, you never will know how. the end of that. There's no more to talk about get out there. And we went downstairs and a lot of people to teach themselves how to And what you do when you teach, you help someone you don't teach anybody how to ride a bike, You let them hold it, you let them balance put the pedal down and, and, and move it themselves. And you stand back, you say no when you're you hold on for a second, and then you put it and practice and practice that all yourself, And before long, in just a matter of minutes, had never been on a bicycle before. She rode like two blocks on a bicycle. She Being to me means seeing the greatness and else convince you to the contrary, when people being up and you're always positive and so You mean to tell me that you're always that am. And it isn't because I'm out there doing response to my having, having gotten the junk used to think, the way that I used to think. Think for a moment. If you can visualize right the clock go from one to 12. The clock starts goes over towards the three, the, uh, our your life when you are moving away from yourself, That's the time when you are trying to put bigger and better than somebody else, trying to, uh, being with somebody else. It's like a lot of time moving away from their true It's this beautiful little child inside of everything in the world. And no dise, no absence then you move down here this way and you're hit the six. The six is the point in your When you are the furthest away from yourself life. It's the point where ver many people relationships or they, they feel full of despair, be. And a lot of people die then. A lot of people have to really seek out therapy then And when you're at that six, there's another that I think of as, uh, living in the light. never can go back. It can't go back. It can does life. It only goes this way forward in That's when you start coming back to yourself. That's what, that's the pathway to enlightenment. you, that is killing you in one way or another, you get yourself all the way back. This is the light over here. This is the place you might be tempted to steal, you might be slip a little bit and you catch yourself. we, we, we got a problem with our sprinkler One of the sprinkler heads is off. And if of going up there. And I've been wanting to And I'm walking out of the bank and there's of the bank. Now I practically own this bank, Okay? So I'm gonna go there every day and I'm looking at this sprinkler head and I think, this thing. I wasn't honor anything. They'll cents or whatever. So I actually get down And then I start thinking, do I want this want a steal? Do I want take, I know it's probably give me one anyway if I asked them. and I said, if I want a sprinkler head, I'll This doesn't belong to me. It was just like But it illustrated to me that I can't go back in my life when I could have done that. I do that. Uh, I can't go back there anymore. That's where you start, that's the place to when that's all gone and I mean gone, and that you think. So it's just changing around in life. When that starts to go away, what natural self is, which is this loving, accepting, living in it and going with the flow and all a thousand times. It is, that's the metaphor there. And you it. You can't do it. And the ingredients that The first is quality rather than appearances. and how things look and how other people view Because every time you find yourself upset said, what you're really saying is what you think of me. All right? So you change from Quality. What is the quality of my life rather Now, do you tell yourself that because my something wrong with me? No. That, see, that's opinion is just that. It's their opinion and or your children are upset because of what peers, what you are really saying in that you're saying is, what you think of me is And you must never give anybody that kind always have it. The funny part about approval, now I'm here to tell you that I like approval. things in the world. I like it when people I love it when people applaud. I like it when like approval. I'm the first one to admit There's a big difference between wanting approval it means you become immobilized when you don't From making other people's opinions more important. want approval and I need it, and if I don't people who get the most approval in life are the ones who get the least approval are the So if you want approval in this paradoxical it. Stop concerning yourself about, ask yourself of the person that gets the most approval, less what other people are thinking. They're so busy being, they don't have time Arose said this, he said, if you advance confidently to live the life which you have imagined, common hours. What that means is that success Success is an inner process. Success is something life. It isn't something you get out of what how to get the junk out and advance confidently to you based on your inner signals, and the interfere with anybody else's right to do Each person has their own right to advance dreams. And when you violate that, you're essence of the universe, which is cooperation you and it will come into your life and arrive of before. That you never dreamt of things will start before. I'm working on a book right now that's It, and when you start believing in some of that you were blind to for so long when you the four and the five when you were moving As long as you're moving back towards your your cooperation with the rest, things will of. Yun called it, uh, synchronicity and we, how unexplainable coincidences sort of happen I'm gonna share a couple of those with you in your life means that you get that inner quality independent of what other people think no limit, people said they are independent good opinion of other people independent of They're so busy advancing confidently, doing to changing their baby's diaper and bringing it to the job. They bring it on the airplane who is rude to them, a stewardist that is it's just where they are and they send them You know, they're kind when somebody wants one old temptation when they were on the one getting in front of me. I'm getting there bit. They don't have all that type A stuff to defeat somebody. It is, it's a new way of being. It's a way cooperate. And you are a part of what this rather than appearances. Another new way of ethics rather than rules. Ethics rather than All these rules, all these ways of having do you know that some of the most immoral the name of the rules? These are the laws. Everybody doing all these horrible things I'm only doing my job, was the defense. We job. If it's an immoral rule, it's immoral Maslow tells us, have rules inside of them ever. And they have to do with ethics, how How do you think we get to where we are now? the south, the black woman in the South who today. No way. I know what the rules are. didn't need, if you needed a reminder, there Every place colored in the back, white in And that made all the difference. Ethics not rules that need to be disobeyed. Don't be on Guam where I was stationed, which would pxs in the Navy exchanges. But they did allow all other civilians to you were Guamanian, that is, if your skin different, then you couldn't a clear outright Navy, I was a communications cryptographer. They had a, uh, a newspaper in the Guam Daily mind. There was a letter writing contest and they This was 1961. That was a fortune to me. That almost. So I entered the contest and I knew at that time, a whole novel I had written I knew it wasn't gonna be a contest , uh, it. I knew I was gonna win this . Unfortunately, and you have an opinion and you don't submit court martial for that. So the headlines on a sales policy of discrimination. Big hot stuff. All right, . And I was called Marias Islands, and threatened with a court even though the rule was immoral. There are and they threatened me with the court marshal, They didn't have Xerox machines in those days, a letter to the President, John F. Kennedy, Navy and I wrote a letter. I was, my hometown, News and a letter to the Detroit Free Press, result of just expressing my opinion about on Guang. And I showed the naval, uh, uh, vice Admiral, sent the one to the President and the Secretary across the country. There was one there to time, it was, uh, and I just spread them out I said, if you court marshal me or punish happen is the world is gonna find out about I can handle it. And I was 20 years old at from that, because all things come in blessings I got out 90 days early and they stamped on my record PI because the Must have. And I never heard from him, but And they don't like anybody with political they saw that, they said, this is somebody real soon. there was no court. There was no court marshal. was initiated on Guam, which allowed any civilian about as a result of someone saying, these to obey them. New ways of being, ethics rather And when your kids want to know why. How come to do this? Encourage them to change them. to help me, uh, get out of the, out of the did it in my impetuous youth. I would just, your job or school? I was just honest. , I said to my job. Of what you do put out in the world is exactly things coming back to you that you don't like these things are coming to you. Ask yourself you. And when you start putting the responsibility changes. Dramatic changes, a new way of being. a new, another new way of being. Instead of externals, try living your life on knowledge Knowledge instead of achievement for the sake which you don't have to collect a lot of merit a lot of, uh, awards and other people's, uh, go out into the world or you read or whatever. It's you do because it makes sense to you, to put on a transcript or where you're gonna children to understand and value the importance doing things that make sense rather than taking Knowledge rather. Always trying to achieve. which tells us that we evaluate and judge achievements he has. But most of the people in this circle of trying to get ahead, trying almost always is higher blood pressure ulcers, we're beginning to find out are related to And remember, it's a perfect universe. There's stressful thoughts. And when you put that get ahead of the other guy, you miss what with goals. It's falling in love with them. That's the problem, . It's not being able a goal to get here, to get a hundred thousand to get two cars in your garage, what? Whatever way to that and you're always working at the goal is called striving, and that's what you Striving. Striving is a very low level place you've ever known is striving. You will just You will just upgrade your goal, the $200,000, and a younger one and, and all of these kinds If you have a goal and you understand that to enjoy and to live, then the goal won't in my life. People ask me, where are you gonna be doing? What's next for you? I just, uh, like the greatest person who ever sat in that He said, I'd never had a policy. He said, amount of sense each and every day of my life States. . And I think there's, there's something have to get it all planned out and follow If you just sort of trust your inner instincts goal stuff will all take care of itself. But aside and, and, uh, suffering on your way there. It will always allude you because once it. And that's cuz that's all you'll know. Nowness moment and enjoying it and all the rest of new way of being for me is to think of yourself being an authoritarian personal authority. A person who has authority never needs to become necessary in business. You can have are the ones who listen the most and the ones do other people have to say? A person in a else and has to make the other person submissive they're getting their power, not from within can control. And that never lasts. That never lasts. The If you will know thyself, that's what Shakespeare the more you, the more you become honest with life. No, I don't think the world necessarily You can't run your world based upon what the want. To me, honesty is like, it's a karma you in the world. Is there a karma? How you it with dishonesty, that's what you're putting Dishonesty. And when you put dishonesty out to you. Because what goes out is what comes I mean, it's, it's in every great, uh, institution it's a religion or a philosophy or whatever, Whatever you plant is what you're gonna get just because it's what you are, because you honest, you are just being honesty, then that's And when it doesn't, you'll just see that And finally, a fifth way of being that is called serenity instead of acquisitions. The to get, the more you try to collect in your that, the less serenity you're gonna have. More is less. It's almost a secret of the that you can, uh, find joy in every moment looking for it. It means that. while you are, know, and seeing, uh, in, instead of saying, that you can open your eyes and see it with See, see the rolling mountains, see the grass, just stop wherever you are in this second, and you can begin to appreciate just your, Then you can begin to appreciate the people are negative and, and you're having the most You can practice a new way of being with them, send them books, send them a tape, send them that you get. Super emotional health is just want to, uh, summarize these new ways of being ingredient on the path as we leave. I said that, uh, it's quality in your life And it's ethics rather than rules and it's time. And it's being personally an, an authority trying to be dominat, dominating someone else And serenity, which is the name of my little than acquisitions and accumulations and trying that serenity, which comes from the way that of the other junk that keeps you back here And once you pass it, once you get past it, the light, living in the light is a way of, you don't get it yet. But once you see it life, You can never go back. That be that It isn't. Your purpose isn't to try to be have that to give away. Well, but there's Forgiveness is the vital ingredient on the how to do it, then practice sending out love. Take the person or the people that you're send them something. You don't have to even that comes from inside. And what's inside make that love and do that. And that is to Not whether you can love someone when they supposed to, but whether you can love someone and send it back. You don't have to forget. it outta you because it is blocking you and And when I said you'll see it, when you believe a parable. Three, four years ago, I decided Beach, and to write. Now the books that had Little Prince Candide Siddhartha, Jonathan the looking glass, Gulliver's travels, parables, message. I went over to Molly and I sat down on the I'd been talking about doing this, and it and her name is Sky. S K Y E. I decided to reverse the letters in her name, the self ICUs. And I just created this parable another planet. The planet is Uranus, and Iki can only see things as they are, not as And therefore, people are neurotic on Uranus attack report, if you will, because anxiety anxiety coming in on the weekends and so on. me tikis. She cannot understand as he describes on earth. Why would anybody be unhappy or depressed doesn't attack and when elevators really don't on Uranus or you want to give a complex to and she says, what happened? Well, my husband Whereas on earth, if you have a complex, it's figure it out. Okay? So she comes here, observes of the universe and gives us these secrets, that was my parable and I wrote it. And she of which I've been talking about here today. But what I wanna tell you is that my wife says icu. Okay? It's a vanity plate. And I Lauderdale, Florida, and a little man from this F Yas, uh, which is how you say that And I said, well, that's just a word. It's a parable that I wrote. He said, no, he said, that word be? He said, it means best wishes The great big erroneous zone, the cosmic erroneous If you get this one, you'll have it and understand is the way we live in a, uh, celebrity obsessed Dao teaches something completely the opposite. The sea stays low, and because the sea stays empty into it because it stays humble, because to come to you. He was trying to teach us the important lesson to us. I practiced this so much more now in years ago I was, uh, I had written a book and, um, it stayed on the New York Times Bestseller And each many weeks it would be number one, and then it would go September two and down the Tonight Show and those days on a regular the Merv Griffin and, uh, Phil Donahue and Dyna Shore. I was like, you know, hobnobbing with Burt and um, What you do is you call and, uh, find list for the following week on Wednesday. coming up, but for the following week. And I called home and my ego was pretty strong Me, I, I really believe that true nobility else. Now it's, it's about being better than I used to be. And just about, I mean, I know quality or every characteristic that I hold Um, but in those days I was into notice me to, uh, call the New York Times. She had this a certain code and she could find out where the following week. So I called her up and next week, you know, out in California doing And she said, uh, you're not on the bestseller I was number one on the bestseller list last I said, , what do you mean I'm not on the bestseller. This, I'm sorry. She said, your Big distinction there isn't it? Between believing you can let go a little bit of, of that, of is the sea King of a hundred streams? Because power. That's a very important principle to On the ocean right next to it. It's my front from this thing called the ocean, which is on the planet. Without it, there's no life So what does this have to say to us? Do you to always be saying, notice me. Look how important I am. I mean, there's been silly stuff, isn't it? I mean, CNN is doing, little things about what happened to this celebrity. And the celebrity's never even And it's, uh, there's all of this talk about, you look, you go into, through an airport same photos just with different magazines. all of them are, but there's like this huge into a state of, notice me, notice me, notice And how much do we train our young people, the one who is the star is the one who gets most important and the most valuable is the And so on. This constant obsession with needing for myself is the, the happiest moments of and not have anybody out there even know what would have, uh, advertised the fact. Of some of the things I talk about with her almost always done in those ways. No, look am, and so on. So much to learn from that to the dow, the ability and the willingness you can just get done almost anything that with taking credit for it. Remember the movie, the Magnificent Obsession, and it was really about what was the magnificent give anonymously. What is Alcoholics Anonymous? a title. There's not even anybody in charge. There's nobody, there's no leaders of this. there's no organization. There's no, it's just want to help other people whose lives and you come and some one day somebody will, day will chair it. And one of the things I've found, and when I, I feel you'll see so many people who are passed them by who look like they don't have dirty. They're, um, God in disguise. Mother Teresa was asked the question about she said, every day, every day I see Jesus all of his distressing disguises, that you you can see it when, particularly in those from everyone else. And whenever I go to one of those meetings stories, uh, they, I, I, I always, I feel source of God, of spirit, of Lao too, of the, to call it, in one of those meetings than I've, I, I've never felt the presence of it this right now, go to one of those meetings. have to. I'm not an alcoholic. I don't call I drank, but I wasn't out of control. And I, uh, but I still go to those meetings. with addiction, and I go with them and I sit just, I get shivers down my back when I think of people, all they want to do is help each There's a movie called, my name is Bill w in it. And, uh, he, his life just got totally control. And then he went to a, uh, uh, he, he began to realize, and he said, we can, and all we have to do is all we have to do All we have to do is, and he's so excited there and, and offer it. And I keep referring Um, there was a time back in the eighties the word aids. Was he, I mean, he come on. became the worldwide phenomenon that it is, and going and, and bringing these people, outcasts in society and offering them a place for each other. This was long before there was any celebrity horrible crisis that our country has and our so excited about the idea of we can create to know anything about us. We don't have to We don't have to say anything. We just have And before that happened, everybody who got with alcohol, would, uh, would die. There did they find their cure? They found it in They found it in being obscure. They found in having no elected representative. They You just come and we care if you've been one you come. We care about you, and you are not Who you are is this divine soul. In the 36th gentle outlast, the strong, the obscure outlast a little less interfering, a little less. the specific kinds of things that you can is talking, just as you're about to interject time, waiting for them to stop talking, just tell me more. Or That's very interesting. I have never heard completely disagree with everything that you to be able to stop practice it. I practiced it every single day while I was working on And for me, that's not always so easy because if I saw someone who was about to recognize just walk a little bit past them like something now. I want to be obscure. The Dow says storms Verse 23, fierce winds don't blow all morning. does this? Heaven and earth? You're already It will come to you at the exact perfect time. ocean at the perfect time and place you gotta you. You don't have to chase after it. You can and your self importance and who you are and more done. And you know what? It's the most the song that Cecilia was singing about the There is an energy in the universe. There of us, and it's also in the universe. And uh, perceived to be, uh oh, aloof from us. world of what we call spirit the world that And I would like to suggest that you suspend you're not a human being here, having a spiritual that you're a spiritual being, having a human is really much more dependent upon how you connect to this energy. And once you have an awareness that you can and whatever you call it, it doesn't matter. call it divine presence, if you call it soul, if you call it Christ consciousness, you can You can call it Louise. You can call it Edna. that you can't get wet from the word water. water, and whatever it is that you call it is. When I was walking in here this evening looking at the flowers and the different plants And as they were looking at them, there was botanist of some kind, and he was trying to name was, the technical name for each one thinking, it doesn't matter what you call Look at that thing. It's orange and it just profound about enjoying it and, and being with labeling it. There was a very famous He once said that, once you label me, you Once you place a label on me and and put me I must then become what it is that you have to live our lives and to practice principles with what I call ordinary human awareness. And ordinary human awareness is just the recognition Maybe I'm having a spiritual experience, I'm but is sometimes in the east called city awareness. or Christ consciousness. There's many names for it, but when you get and this personality and this thing that you are is that which was never born and can never And that's what this program is really about. It's really about recognizing the power, the it says in some of the most holy books that you can do. All that I have done and even words from holy scriptures. That's a very can practice and live every day. What I'd like to suggest to you and what this higher levels of awareness that are available to do things like, and it may sound a bit our lives, to be able to place our attention for ourselves and our lives. To literally have the power to know that if keep that picture firm within me, that there me that is in the universe and that is also I can manage it. There are many ways to get our lives, but basically it all begins with As you think so shall you be. Seven little things that we can learn and master in our what I think about all day long. And once expands, you start getting real careful about You don't allow your thoughts to be on anything to have manifest or show up for you in your action is a thought, and you can look at every or Western, whether it's ancient or modern, quote, whether it's tribal, and there is in each and every one of us in a place that is in a place that has no boundaries, that in and we have this intelligence, and you can I've often said that when you die, if you're ready to leave, they weigh your body. And number, 150 pounds. All right, . And then body instantly after you're dead. And it still the same, alive or dead before it begins to And if that's the case, then your life, this still weighs the same is weightless. Your on it, you can't put a measure on it. Who in the dimension of material. It's like if a thought. And the thought says, I think I'm gonna wiggle well, that's really no big deal. But it really in here that says, I'm gonna wiggle my finger. to, you can't. You can put that under an x-ray. You can try to measure that and find out what gonna wiggle my finger and you can never find I can do all the scientific studies. And what is I can find the command center inside of I can point to a specific point. And scientists can do this and say, there's a thought. I think I'm gonna wiggle my finger. and there's no technology that can ever allow in the command center. Can't find it. and that commander in the command us that we just don't pay enough attention evening is that once you start becoming aware just look around you at everything that you We become what we think about. And that is in learning to manifest. But in my mind, as really want and being able to attract it into at is basically the obstacles that we have And you notice I say that we have conditioned we need to be putting the responsibility on because you have allowed yourself to become ourselves to believe certain kinds of things, and hang onto and, and live with is this whole to me in my past are what are keeping me from So we hang on to these things and we fill child. I'm the youngest child. I'm the oldest of those is a great excuse. You know, if you're know, I never, how could I be making decisions person today when I always had somebody else How could I think for myself, if you're the well, how could I be expected to think for else. I was always doing it for somebody else. the classic identity crisis. Oh, poor me. She was always calling me by this one's name I fit in. So that take care of everybody except Well, your parents looked at you and said, live with that. I don't, huh? So everybody like their sister better or that we had enough, or we lived in the north, we lived in the I'm too tall, I'm too short. I've got too falling out, it's not falling out. Whatever all of these things that we hang onto and higher places in our lives. The wake, I call a story that I heard Alan Watts tell one time, He said, your life is like a boat, and it's right? And as it's going, you are somehow the back of the boat, and look down into the and you're standing here and you're looking these three questions. The first question, what is the wake? What the answer, the wake is the trail that is nothing less. It's the trail that is left this little metaphor, what's driving the boat? What's making this thing go in this direction? being generated by the engine and nothing the boat go in this direction and in this moment, thoughts that I have and how I am direction. And nothing more. Because the third question and I've ever, ever since I heard it, I've a tendency to look back here and blame something, is it possible for the wake to drive the boat? make a boat, go in this direction? And of It's just a trail that is left behind. And of things and every one of us has a wake and And one of the problems that we have is that all of the stuff that's in it to explain why like it to work. So that, um, you can take look at the experiences of my life and the I spent some years in a, a series of foster in a foster home, that must have been terrible. you're six years old, you don't wake up every home. Isn't this awful? Poor me? How come You don't do that. You don't do that till working and you're bankrupt and you're a drug relationships are all falling apart and your this happening to you? You said, what do you I had to live in a foster home. My mother were to. And so it's like we take a look at saying here that you shouldn't be in touch are back there, but to use it as excuses for today is something that you, if you do, that This place that I'm talking about in this awareness, way beyond ordinary human awareness, can ever learn. I had to learn as a young away. He left, he left home when I was just Left my mother who's sitting right here, 107 107 , 82 years old Owen. And with three little out about this person that my older brothers got her family back together again when I could to, uh, to make a family again with made a phone call, who never sent a penny, who died of cirrhosis of the liver at the in Biloxi, Mississippi. And it wasn't until I went to his grave and about this man and have this more enormous just based upon what he had done to my own of the stories that I had heard and all the And I ended up at his grave, 10 years after he was dead. It was on the 27th of August. life. What I did is I believe I was sent there spirit, the divine presence. And my life at I was overweight. My relationships weren't were a lot of things that weren't going well but they weren't going at the level that I was filled with this hatred, this anger, this And so what I did is I stood there on his and I said, from now on, I send you love. is the fragrance that the violet sheds on go of that anger and that hatred and all of with these wounds and let go of that and cleared place at a much higher level. In fact, I wrote erroneous zones in very, myself back in shape. I began to eat better. weight down and the people that were supposed who sits here with me this evening, and all evening, All of it was allowed to flow when I released and hatred, they say that you never die from be un bitten. It's in the wake. What kills you long after the bite has taken place. And that's something we have control over that what happens is that many of us bond I were to cut my hand, just cut it and watch I just have to watch it. And there's no doctor gonna heal that wound. There's something, there's a healing stream wound to heal. So my nature says, close up on to them, close 'em up. But supposing I way I'm gonna let you close up. . You see and say, look at this. Say what happened? Well, look at this cut. It seems to be getting worse. It's getting practice this kind of a mentality when your it open before long, you lose your hand . And organism will be destroyed if you don't let And your nature also says, close up the wounds we ignore our nature. I had a great teacher His name was Nisar Gata. Maharaj lived in something called I Am that, which was very And one of the things that he talked about difference between say a saint or a highly a spiritual teacher, and the rest of us, is and you don't. Or we don't. And he said, no. them and so do you. He said, the difference between ordinary human they have nothing else inside of them. That's to learn how to get that in ourselves to be of an orange. I love the orange. Perhaps living in Florida is why. But an orange and you squeeze it as hard as you can squeeze and what comes out When you squeeze an orange, you squeeze it, will apple juice come out. There's no mistakes. You'll never get grapefruit you'll ever get out of it is orange juice. you squeeze an orange as hard as you can squeeze that question up in Toronto one time, this she said, that's dumb It's a, she said, that's what's inside. It answer. You are really smart. And she's smiled the truth. The reason that orange juice comes inside. Now. You extend the metaphor and someone That is someone says something about you that in a way that you find offensive. Somebody you feel hurt by and out of you comes anger, stress, and immediately you say, the reason said it or the way that she said that, or But the truth is, the reality is that what like what's inside, you can change it. Now, of an orange? I would say, I don't know. I I just enjoy the oranges of my life and give A lot of people think that other things make past. They'll blame their parents. They'll They'll blame somebody for things that are favorite things that we have to blame for called traffic. Traffic made me upset, and I've always reminded freeway and I'm trying to get someplace, the you the opportunity in this moment to really or or creating anxiety or stress in your life, for you. Traffic doesn't care. Your anger is your choice, angry, depressed, miserable, upset, or you positive. In this moment, it's always up to as the great spiritual teachings of many various. Persuasions. There's a story that summarizes philanthropists in a village. The conquerors the men, or many of the men who were warriors this prisoner of war camp right in the village. And many of the villagers knew that their philanthropist was a person who had great the prison and were in charge of it. And he able to have fresh water and cold water. I everything that I have to purifying the water will not be sick. And he was granted that, and he felt like done what he was here for. The second philanthropist and that they were cold at night. They didn't and he said to them, I would like to provide they will be comfortable when they sleep at And he was granted that, right? And he donated felt that he was fulfilling his destiny. The that they were eating was inadequate. That and water and some bread. And so he said, food, and I'd like to take this food to all And he was granted that, right? And all three felt that they had really completed their philanthropist was a saint. He was living consciousness levels. And he went and he found prison at night and he released all of the And this little metaphorical story really human awareness, there's nothing wrong with suffer in comfort. All right? And many of and say, all right, as long as I'm comfortable, But there are those who have keys, and those teachers in my life was Carlos Castaneda and what they call inaugural a, an a Native American knowable. And he, his teacher told him that room, a mansion, if you will, that has a thousand And this one room is called daily human awareness. conception and birth you're in. And the only So we spend our lives in this mansion in one We don't know how to get out into those rooms So we wait to die. And what his teacher told the room of daily awareness and into the other all that, I have to give you, I can teach without having to die. And what we have to can take the keys and unlock the self-imposed ourselves on the basis of what we have come What we can and can't do, we have to let go with reality. We literally have to make a, I perceive to be what is possible for me. out of the things that we have come to believe And everything that you came to this program handed to you by someone else outside of you, of someone in the past. And because it comes of doubt. And this element of doubt isn't levels because what you think about is what And if you're thinking doubt, then doubt is and moon should ever doubt, they would immediately in or what has been handed to us and still and all of the people who have come before So what we have to learn to do is let go of I call unknowing. Now, there's a big difference Everything that you know is something that contact. So there's nobody out there watching. There's nobody in this world who knows how Telling them that you can swim or by watching observing other people doing it. You may remove how to swim until you get in the water and And then you'll have a knowing. And that knowing like riding a bicycle or dancing the Macarena that you know how to do, it's because you've that there's a big difference between knowing awareness, knowing about God, and knowing There's a big difference, just like there's possibility of being able to heal myself of disease process. I perhaps may believe that and I've heard others say it, and I've read and I've gone to the seminars. But until you have made conscious contact to suggest there are, there's a wonderful It's, uh, written by a wonderful woman. Her and she's written quite a bit of poetry. This particular poem really speaks to me, what you believe in. Immerse yourself in this, airport one night with several long hours. the airport shop, bought a bag of cookies She was engrossed in her book, but happened could be grabbed a cookie or two from the a scene, she munched cookies and watched the her stock. She was getting more irritated so nice, I'd blacken his eye with each cookie He took one too, and when only one was left, his face and a nervous laugh. He took the her half. As he ate the other, she snatched guy has some nerve, and he's also rude. Why? She had never known when she had been so gall called, she gathered her belongings and headed thieving in great. She boarded the plane and was almost complete. As she reached in her There was her bag of cookies in front of her are here, she moaned with despair. Then the late to apologize. She realized with grief thief, , the cookie thief, and all of us in I have eight beautiful children, our youngest things that you do when you become enlightened day is when we place something that is important so that we never misplace anything. So obviously having reached this exalted level I never misplaced anything. So I place my little girl has this wonderful habit of taking so that she can watch me flip out as I look And I'll say, Sage, how many times has daddy you told me not to do it. I don't hide your keys? The last time they were in your dollhouse? to do it. And then of course, my 12 year old stance, , and she's watching me raise my voice. She'll say, I wonder what all those people see him right now. Get lots of reminders, out here, I want those keys here. And I go my back pocket, and they are my keys, right? my pocket. And there's a fine line I think, between being I probably crossed that line more times than but this idea of being a cookie thief and I did a benefit, uh, along with my wife a Maui, uh, whose name is Michael Koff, who And an accident. He, he's a, a quadriplegic it was over, there was a, a man who lived as a kahuna, a healer, an ancient healer from he said, that was a nice talk and so on. And You know, do, do you take Kahuna 1 0 1? I how does this work out? And he said, no. He to have no doubt, to have a knowing. And he in a disease process, the knowing will always And that knowing is something in which you One of the great stories of knowing is, again, uh, spending the summer, uh, in, in our summer dermatologist. And Sage has had this thing she was two and a half years old, from two years. She had these flat warts. And not only did uh, mouth and around her nose, but they were were getting up around her eyes and so on. progressively worse, even though all of the will go away, she'll outgrow them. But it didn't seem to be that way. And they years had gone by and she still hadn't. So on, uh, in KeHE. And he, um, he, I said, uh, taking a look at, uh, at Sage, my wife was he put it in her face and he said, uh, you've she hates that term. . She never wanted to All right? She just called them her bumps. is that when you get married, you won't have oh, who is this dork you've got me talking And then he said to her something, he said, no medicine that we can give them. But he to rid yourself of these things is within healing capacity in you and begin to talk to leave, that you have a much greater chance that I could give you. And we certainly can't burn them off because basically the message that he gave us. I'm to where we were staying, and there was a are when uh, when we're staying. And all of And we walked into the bedroom and it was uh, on her air mattress was sage. And she she had a flashlight underneath the blankets. I said, honey, is, is everything all right? She said, shh. I'm talking to my bumps . And other bedroom and I said, honey, you're not to her bumps. Isn't that great? The next night night. The third night, the same thing. Now that was Thur on Friday. This happened on television, , every single one of those Unknowing. You see, there is a stream of healing It's very much like electricity. People say, There was electricity. We just didn't plug of healing. And when we go into that stream level within ourselves. And we don't allow of us, every human being out there. There The first person in each, uh, person is called Guide Only. Alright? This is the part of us separate from God, separate from my environment, my value is based upon how much I get, how I might be, or how much more, uh, attractive the value of my possessions and so on. What is mine? So it's not mystical awareness, lower level of awareness, which says my ego, of us, there's another person, and this other or the higher self. And this sacred or higher It doesn't care who you're better than. It not interested in any of that. The problem very little attention to it. This hire or wants us to be at peace. At peace. Whatever Make the choice to be at peace, your sacred oh, no, no, no, no. It's much more important struggling, struggling a lot. And one of the and who's wrong. Most of the fights that you when you, it's oftentimes you forget the details, wrong. So that if you wanna have your higher or your suggest this to you, practice being kind rather you have the choice in your relationships your parents, with your grandparents, with with flight attendants, with waiters, with this ego part of you, which says, it's important to stress and anxiety and fear and so much And instead say, how can I suspend this part that wants to be at peace, that wants to be I said to you, I'm gonna give you a magic to allow you to just wave it and get anything have this, you can have this car, you can You can have this home. Whatever it's, or you another wand and you can wave this. And you'll be at peace. Whatever comes along, we know that we're only here for a very short And being able to choose peace, which is what self. Once you get that, you begin to shift people who are close to me in relationship I remember my wife and I, we often talk about time. We've had many children together, and we have you, . But we'd often, and one time I said each other, but this doesn't sound like love. other doesn't sound like love. Let's practice. Let's practice with each other being kind that, that when we had that walk that, and with a waiter, I mean a waiter who comes to and has been busy and all of that, and your I'm here and I'm important and I have a right Now that's the ego part of you. If this, if are a lucky man tonight. You got somebody understand, and you take your time and you whenever you can. I'm willing to, I'm willing to suspend my, , and with such gratitude just for being kind are in relationship, whether it's with our wives, with our children, our grandchildren. Whether it's with people we drive along the and waitresses or baggage handlers or flight to get into the movie. We're all in relationships probably the best lesson that I've ever learned in a way which is powerful and happy and fulfilling, When you have a choice and you always do to The ego part of us wants to be right. How deserve to be served? How dare you say something person wrong and make ourselves right, but to be happy, wants to be at peace. And that part of us says, it doesn't matter your ego. All you want is to be at peace. we had more of this, not only in our own personal we have with all of the people closest to but on our planet as well. We would begin to understand the wisdom that that we're all one, we're all breathing the we're all being warmed by the same sun. And to say, no tree has branches so foolish as It applies in your relationships and it applies in any relationship in which two people agree . So it isn't about getting somebody who's person that you have a lot of difficulty with. Your soul mate's, the person you can't get you say this, they say that, and there they away. They keep showing up in your life. And greatest teachers because anybody in your a frenzy is the person who's your greatest You know why? Because they teach you that You don't know how to choose peace. And of It says, I can choose peace rather than this. my wife is one of my soulmates. I mean, she She's really good at it, and she's one of her one time, honey, do you love me for who you? I just wanna, she said that you call you would even ask a question like that. She for me, or what success that you've had or I love you for who you are, and I would always I said, what if I was just Joe six pack, you a, a, a meager salary and so on. She said, said, I would miss you but I would always love you, . She knows she's daughter, Serena, who's uh, just turned 13, day. She said, there's a rumor in our school that you actually wrote a book about how to Tell me it isn't true, I said, honey, you can come and hear me speak. I said, people actually pay to hear me speak. all right. She's. But her soulmate is her Serena was 12 and summer was 14, my wife was taking care of everything at home while she approach to childbirth and infancy care. And she's as qualified as anybody to write breakfast, I was making waffles for them in mixes all this stuff up. It's a lot easier were sitting at the back table in the kitchen, about six 30 in the morning, if you didn't And I turned around. I said, where is this What do you mean if I didn't have any feet, And Summer said to her, then why are you wearing Everybody's got a soulmate. stormed out of people who agree with us. It isn't the people people who always, uh, find us, you know, is an element of understanding that everybody teach us. Many people have said to me that they have over the years that I have, um, changed, I've Erroneous Zones and Pulling Your Own Strings about something much different than I'm talking awareness, higher consciousness. And it's true because one of the great teachers Man in Search of a Soul, he said that there through when we reach adulthood. He said, out with the athlete when you reach adulthood. And he called it the athlete, not as a putdown life, when our primary emphasis is on our fast it can run, how much it can lift, how that we are a body, if you will, perhaps with He said the second stage is what he called time in our adult life when we take ourselves will. And we take this body out into the world to conquer. We attempt to defeat. We attempt It's the age of the ego. It's the time when it for me? What can I get? And we go through earlier in my life to teach people how to that's where I was in my life in those days. And the shift has taken place for me as well. what he called the, the, uh, archetype of And this is when we finally get to a place in it for me? How much can I get? How much And we begin to ask the question, how may others becomes much more important than our called the stage of the spirit, the archetype that, that this is not our home, what it means this world, but you are not of this world. And these four stages, represen. Also where going through these? To what extent do I find in it for me? How much can I get and ask ourselves deal with other people being able to manifest, what it is that we'd like to attract into Boils down to a formula that I'd like to share is one that everyone that I know who is able I call it the four releases, all right? So want, you will get. And these four really Each of them stands for something. And if call them lucky, some people call them highly are good at getting what they want in their first one says, I wish. So what you really into your life starts with a wish. It's a thought. I wish I could get that job. I could lose weight. I wish I could get rid Whatever. It's a wish. So what? You have to for what you desire, what you really wish you wish for and desire is in what I call Ask. And you shall receive. Ask and you shall to. . When I get stuck sometimes writing and I just leave the typewriter. I leave the yellow couch and I get into a meditation and I say, clearer as to how to express it. And it's always there. Sometimes the phone say, did you know that this was in the mail? what I needed. Sometimes it just comes in or an insight, whatever it might be. The third really stands for what I intend. and ask for, and you frame it in such a way create this, whatever it might be, whether of weight, whether it's getting rid of an, I intend to create it. And if you notice, mince those kinds of words. I will do it. work out? You say, well then I'll just learn out, but I intend to create this in my life. There's an intention, and the intention is the good opinion of other people. You're not checking it out with what everybody else out You're saying to yourself, I intend to create And I often tell people, don't tell anybody make it a big statement. Instead, keep it say that? I say, because the minute that you there's a simple line. It says Particles themselves Another way of saying that is the way St. half not come from that which death appear. It's not over here. It's in this invisibleness. it, you have to explain it. You have to get And before long, you've lost the capacity in spirit when you're inspired in spirit. That is, I am absolutely passionate about One of the great books that one of my teachers 3000 years ago, has a line in it that says, passion is like dressing up a corpse. So you take this corpse and you put a tuxedo all the makeup on it, and you take it out can get for me. But basically it's dead inside. passion. If you lack passion, you're not gonna So what you wish for, ask for, intend to create get it. That's the good news. The bad news don't want you will also get, and this is to understand. And when you're dealing with and what, uh, what everybody else tells you And somebody might be watching this and say, you can't just put your attention on something, a whole lot of other stuff like that. You thin from, I hate being fat. Because if what you think about is what expands fat, then hating being fat is what you will think about. You cannot attract prosperity being poor. I despise being poor. Because if you despise being poor, if you're being poor or despising, it is what you will say, see, now that's, it gets worse. , you is on what is? If your attention is on what where your thoughts are, then you will continue You've gotta figure out a way to get your your higher awareness off of what is and onto are on, what is you shifted to, what do I And it's even worse than that, , you cannot is on what always has been. This is the way all the time, these are the circumstances Wake up. These are the way things have always There's always been poor people. You are one you watch that person and being poor continues on what always has been, then what always as you think so shall you be. These aren't This is reality. And the worst and ugliest want into your life no matter what it is. you or what they expect for you, or what they can do. Because if your thoughts are on what what you want. What they want will continue to manifest, left and all you wanna do is make a right and you say, look, I just wanna make one right tribe, we only turn left . We've always turned That's the way this tribe has always been. and they will convene all of the elders to has what I think one of the great poets on song called For a Dancer. In there there are He says, just do the steps that you've been the dance becomes your very own. Which is steps that we've been shown by everyone we've own. And later on in the song, he says something grown from the seeds someone else has thrown. Go on ahead and throw some seeds of your own the time you go home. And then the kicker, song, he said, because in the end there is letting go of this tendency to be a dancer, by everyone we've ever known. And then it becomes our own, and then we pass we have to shift our attention off of what this goes for everything. I was at a, doing and a woman picks me up and she's got a doozy Like, you know, Snoopy's is, my kids call I mean, it was, and I was in a, in this little I said to her, something to the effect, I didn't like it, but I said something to the had a cold like that, And she said, oh, that's just what I needed It's people like you who go around telling have a cold, we should be feeling guilty. She said, colds are just things that happen said, but I just don't think like you. She I said, well, tell me what you think. You're colds are viruses and that they're in the in a while, and when they do, we shouldn't about it. And people, you are like you writing I said, look, we're on the same page here. colds are in the air and that they're viruses how come you don't get a cold? I said, because said, you talk to viruses? I said, of course. Well, I say to her, look, you've landed on about you to anyone. I'm not gonna complain and you no room to flourish on this immune here. But there's a lady in Chicago, who's waiting for you. . Now you laugh and you that when you keep your attention on what will keep manifesting into your life. Addictions of what you don't want or what you despise. So we keep our attention on what we don't seeking after, and then we despise it when we shift to a place called unconditional love have to be dependent upon, you can shift right The currency for attracting what we want into shall you be? Begin to place them on what it shift over and over again. And people who start getting inside of their head and say, Like what? How are you organized in here? ever allow my thoughts on anything that I saying Yes, but you can't do this. Yes, but of energy. I don't. I shift away from that That's what separates great masters from ordinary this program about a consciousness, an awareness, which involves something that I call spirituality. in any religious way. It is a divine intelligence, an organizing people call it God. Some people call it soul, slavery, there was a young man, his name was what is called a in Japanese. It's called, I'd love to say that. sti, S a t o r i. And you can create something in your life. Now the student is ready, the teachers will appear. have to go through this long involved process five minutes before you die. Instead, you can have it when you are ready. in the Ute Indians And it means great seeing, an boom. There it is. I see. And it's like, awakening, this light goes off and you just Intuition has been described as, you know, is God talking to you. It's like hearing that 23 year old sea captain had a, uh, a ship from the west coast of Africa to the new world And he had this sat, this awakening. And in what he was doing was horrible and defenseless And he wrote down on the envelope, the words was lost and now I'm found. And it was Grace that brought me home. He shifted away from his material world and being in an instant, which is available to that, uh, have been showing up in my life um, things for me to tell you and share with me. And I've always lived by the principle of have a mind that is open to everything and my wife and I always had this, um, attitude keep an open mind and anything that, um, you and just open yourself to the words of Jesus all things are possible. And I always ask my audience, uh, what does leave out? And obviously the answer is nothing the Shift, there's also called The Shift. Meaning, moving our lives away from our egos What Serena was up here speaking about. It, a difference in the world. And towards the named Joel Goldsmith, who wrote The Infinite had friends on Maui, a friend on Maui named And in her late eighties, she would go out Joe Goldsmith back in the 1950s when he lived to me. And then from his book, parenthesis, Your life is a parenthesis in eternity. He those who reach a stage in which they realize struggling for the things that perish things, shadows. It is at this stage that some persons term realm to a seeking for them from God. And my life, taking the focus in my life off of, the reputation, ownership, which we begin And to begin to recognize that, uh, Pierre from the Catholic Church for his outrageous as a human being. Having a spiritual experience, all heard it, that we are all infinite spiritual and beginning to live our life from this spiritual It's place of spirit where we recognize and the ego says, which is on the basis of what and what others think of us, not based on And most egregiously not based upon our belief will, to an awareness of, uh, of our own divinity. And from that place, what is possible for here from a, um, a great poet. His name was called The Rhyme of the Ancient Mariner, and I put it in a book of mine years ago called I started it with this. And I'd like you to, to think about what the poet is asking and know in your heart that what I'm, what the you think it's just the fancy kind of, uh, a, uh, of an idealist. Ask yourself, does this possible? He said, And what if in your sleep you dreamed and there picked a strange and wonderful flower, flower in your hand? Ah, what? Then he concludes such a thing is, um, is really a possibility is no form, no beginnings, no ends, no boundaries, something that has substance, that has boundaries, can smell, and then ask yourself if that's I wonder how many of you think yes, and how But um, the fact is that, uh, this room has, tonight. Um, every single one of you are an Every single one of you came from a formless that you look at. Began in a seed, and the seed began in something There's a little girl here tonight, Camille. years old. I was, I was swimming with her teeth and she said, uh, I lost two of my teeth. it. And she was all excited about that. And, um, I said to her, mom and my daughter, in that tiny little infinite infinitesimally, what she's going through right now. What is There's nothing for us to, we could, we can't speck. Everything that you needed for this don't believe in miracles. And the great Dow, a year, the year I turned 65 and wrote a book A book that I always tell people, carry it wisest book ever written. And, um, I lived people to, uh, to just stick it in your new the ones that are made out of plastic, recycled and um, But just carry it with you because cuz the energy from what's in here will come to say, he wrote a, uh, uh, a, a collection uh, Nagata Maharaj. And he used to say to carry it with you. And I heard that I was in my early forties is just another one of those crazy guys over I just didn't think that it would be possible that, uh, energy is in everything and that, could, you could muscle test this kinesiology and you will be stronger with it than you Just try it, just carry it with you. Let me hand right there. The first hand up there Would you like to carry this with you? Wherever Dow to Ching. It's only a few dollars. It's One of the great lines in the Dow is what is that, um, it says that none of you are And when you look at your physical body, there's You know, I mean, what can you do to change You know, things are drooping, folks. , you inevitable is there. And the hair, well, for you it just turns, it just goes somewhere a great line in the book because my son, who's uh, in a couple of weeks and is gonna start Um, cause I often have quoted Latu and he Dow does nothing and it leaves nothing undone. It's all perfect. in Maui, I said, Saint, come on. Do something. He looked up me and he said, I do nothing and I leave nothing. I'm undone . So this line now, dais philosopher. So the great saint, uh, Swami Mok Ananda, And his response is really worth you hearing because the, the strange place that I think but it's still just, it's hard for us to wrap are possible. Uh, this, this, this awareness that, um, that is real, which never changes. So what part of your physical life meets that We are all in. , these, uh, bodies that are definition, they're not real. So you go back in since you showed up here. You were in a between five and 10 pounds, and that was you. this tall. And you certainly, if someone said, is that then you were in a 13 year, 12 year old body, and they have a stance, you know, and they're leg goes up and down and they roll the rise a life someplace You were in one of those bodies, teenage body, you get the great learnings. One of my daughters, voice and asked her to hurry up and get moving. I wonder what all those people would think this morning, she turned to her sister and said, uh, would 11 year old daughter? I, I sneak out of the many of my children ever, and I follow them was for my daughter summer when she was 13 table and all of a sudden about six 30 in said, well, If you didn't have any feet, would Serena, at that time, and it hasn't gone away, her at six o'clock in the morning and said, heard you say. We don't even talk to me. Why to me. Close your mouth. Why are you talking That's so stupid. When even didn't have any some looked at and said, don't get mad at bra that's, uh, . So I you were in one of those bodies, I was in a 20 year old body. And, um, I saw doing a little bit of this, and the pictures by. And the film was, uh, uh, the camera was a picture of me when I was about 20 years And, um, there's not one cell of that body was real. And when you were in your 20 year you? I mean, it's just like you'd look at you look back at it and you say, if it was and where did it go? Emily Dickinson, another great poet, one of would, um, would give talks back in the 19th of dirt and she would say, just let this in. lads and girls was laughter and ability and This passive place, a summer's nimble mansion circuit then ceased like these. That's who you are. If you believe that you're fulfill its circuit and cease. And we all but we haven't been raised to believe that. There is a component of us that is beyond um, beyond form trans over past higher than And this, um, this part of who we are has can heal, anything, can manifest anything, And you get a sense after a while that, um, is as, as you begin to elevate your awareness And, and this is basically the essence of we were all conceived and born into a world ordinary. And ordinary isn't so bad. I'm not fitting in and all the things that ordinary, me. And I got the mic tonight, . So an ordinary It means getting along. It means becoming the forms. It means paying your taxes. It them and taking care of them, and, uh, going grades and graduating and your family, and all of this, these ordinary things. And then where you become a grandparent and then you and then you die. And, and this isn't an, me an awareness that if I put my hands here consciousness. And where I would like to take you tonight, particularly in the last year or so, and particularly that I call extraordinary awareness. An extraordinary so that you're listening to an ordinary man. I fill out the forms or I get somebody to my taxes. And, um, I've provided for all of and saw that they went to school and was there all of the things that we would say constitute stop here. See, this is where it stops for so many people Um, remember the Barbara Streisand song? Is that, uh, that there's more, there's a calling, the physical. Let's, Fran sends ordinary. And this something that, um, wants to move um, is beyond the ego. Everything I've spoken for it's, um, it's, it's an identification and a belief in what my physical self tells me is my reality. see and touch, and feel and smell and hear, is here. But this up here between ordinary can go at any time. Here we are. What Ee Cummings, another favorite a world which is doing its best night and to fight. The greatest battle there is to the poets think. It's about going beyond average. It's about going beyond ordinary. It's about understanding that there's something inside It's your soul and your soul. Your spirit and your soul wants something very, very different it. It's really, it's not interested in fitting It doesn't care whether people like you. It or not. I wrote these words out the other It says, I said the ideal cause. I'm gonna thing that it asks for is neither knowledge soul is space. The ideal of the soul is I to expand, to reach out. To embrace the infinite. Yeah. The ideal of the soul is infinity. It and restricted. The soul is not finite. What and it has an end, doesn't it? So it's, that's opposite of finite is in finite. Infinite. What does it mean when something is infinite? It doesn't stop anyplace. It is always growing. What do you think's at the end of the universe? we come up with, well, what would be at the And what we think is at the end of it is what? at the end of the universe, the poet would does that end? So there's getting in touch the part of us that says, there was a song woman. It was called Don't Fence Me in . Oh, give above. Don't fence me in. Remember that song? looking at me. What is he gonna do now he's in. Now, before I had any children, I had I even wrote about them. Now we have eight thing I know about raising children is this, Sage, I was telling the story of, uh, you restaurant where we were all there and my there. And, and, um, Sage is, um, in a lot of ways this story at every talk, so I might as well the foster home back in Mount Clemens when home from school and Mrs. Scarf who ran this us lived. And I came home and I asked her, what's a she said, A scurvy elephant. , I mean, I said, I said, well, I heard Mrs. Poole, who was And she said that, uh, Wayne Dyer was in her So she got on the phone, called the principal, that's Wayne. He gets everything mixed up. in her classroom. She said that he was a disturbing to say that , so a scurvy elephant is, uh, always say to us, um, you know, the, the number uh, their independence of the good opinion They're just not interested in being told , which I just got, um, and it, um, it had Jobs, uh, at Stanford University. It was a I meditated, I listened to what he had to I mean, just passed away a few weeks ago. And, um, you know, many his biographers now Edison and Benjamin Franklin and, uh, Alexander really changed who we are as a people and advice to the whole graduating class at Stanford Don't listen to that inner calling and whatever pay attention to anybody telling you what's for it. Sage was at Mother's Day, and I don't to wear or didn't wanna wear, but um, it had slacks. And I remember that Mother's Day walking in so talking to her about, um, I know exactly there's a lot of people who think that you Day and it's a restaurant. I said, but, uh, We'll go home and get something afterwards I don't want to do this, and why should I I understood it very strong, and she's still But it also serves people very, very well. voice and we all have it. And when we have with it, that is when you feel a strong passion what you want to create, the kind of person within you, um, it doesn't make any difference along with it. You don't even try to talk to anybody else a disturbing element. You become a scurvy way you'll ever feel fulfilled. You won't have to listen to your soul. And your soul finite. Therefore, everything up to here is finite. the forms, fitting in, being a good citizen, which I applaud, which are all fine, but they lived life. Herman Melville, I spoke about him this morning mean, his writing was so profound and so beautiful Dick, which is really not the story about a person who has an obsession and that whale I've read a really great book this summer. called Unbroken by Laura Hill Hillebrand. wherever this is going around the world, get who, um, survived on a raft across the ocean camp and on and on and on, and survived against And that at the end was able to go back and spiritual experience. And, um, and Ahab was, that just couldn't be stilled. And this is in the middle of the Pacific Maui. Where I the whales, go on a whale watch with me. And if you like what I'm speaking about here in January. Here's Melville. He said, for So in the soul of man lies one insular, Tahiti, all of the horrors of the half lived life. you to ordinary, to filling out the forms Life starts at ordinary and listens to its is there and there are some that doubt that over in Maui, and he was saying, you know, I've poked around in a lot of human brains a soul And I asked him, I said, Chuck, I said, um, you ever seen a thought Well, no, of course not. I said, do you think thought exists? You can't see it. You can't everything that exists is metaphysical beyond world, and it's not even real. Standards because it's always changing. The be a different, you'll leave in a different keeps occupying more and more and more new together. The great Irish poet, William Butler Yates his but a poultry thing, a tattered coat upon its hands and sings and louder sings for every coats on a stick unless we have a soul. And fence me in. The soul says, don't tell me Don't tell me what I can't do. Don't you dare I should be? That's your soul. And all of an illusion. It's just a very temporary parenthesis gonna leave it and all the evidence is there You try to pretend that it's not there. And. and you lift them up and you shift it around the, I don't know, you do all of the stuff a damn thing in this world. You're just being You're just being done. But what you're being like to offer you here is a, um, a program, been reading and studying and, um, lecturing And for some reason I've been given a, a, For some reason, I'm, I'm allowed to, uh, primetime three and four hour specials on or on changing your life, living from a spiritual this, um, wonderful opportunity handed to more and more and more, but about, um, the start our life from ordinary and just leave into this extraordinary place, this place, Where we, where we transcend this ego, this are is so important and believes that who what we are is in competition with others has to, has to be better than I love the poets. I feel very poetic tonight. Uh, a great, um, uh, Nobel Prize for literature in 1927 with he writes about this ego of ours. He says, tris. But who is this? Me in the dark? I step him. Not He makes the dust rise from the earth every word I utter. He is my own little self. me. I am ashamed to come to theor in his company. the dust rise from the earth with our swagger, But inside there's this being that says, um, more divine. And in order to get to the path is that, Even though many people will attend the books and uh, and study it and look at to leave ordinary behind is very, very small. Honestly, it's only a handful of people in good. The, um, the book that I'm reading now, read it if I have it here. Ah, here it is. Some of you studied him when you took a philosophy His name was Renee Decart. He's the one who to question these guys. I used to teach them . I really believe it should be. I am. Therefore, talk about it later. And Des Hart said, in at some point in one's life, to rid one's and to rebuild one's entire system of knowledge And I think I've done that recently, just two years ago really helped me to do that. I'm going here. And I've been doing it in it my whole life, but honestly I haven't. life. Um, and, and so. In order to do this thing, involves changing your concept of yourself. means understanding what is your concept of concept of yourself? Your concept of yourself about yourself and what's possible for you And it really means changing most of that You've been raised to believe in your limits this imposed upon you by your well-meaning and business and education. Uh, the systems told you, get here. This is not for you. And it might not have even said, oh, you can do anything. And then all of the exceptions to that, that I'm imposing way for Mother's Day , and you've got to fit it's by, by God. It's um, it's like the soul has no finiteness just wants to keep expand. It wants to keep I hope you enjoyed the video. I'd love to down below so I can, uh, get your feedback I'd also love to know what lessons you learned leaving the comments, and I will join in the shout to Madeline Murray. Thank you so much, means a lot to me. For those of you watching, as well as some awesome bonuses, make sure your receipt so we can keep track. Thank you guys so much for watching. Continue I'll see you soon.