In today's chess video, I'm going to show defense. I will be showing you 5 unbelievable games opening. Let's check out our first trap, which is Takes, takes &amp; black attacks the pawn. Knight c3 defends it, then black goes for call the Sveshnikov variation. White advances ahead and now he is ready to black will have to exchange this important Therefore, black pushes d6 to stop this deadly Now the mainline here is bishop g5, which But white does not play that, instead he jumps Now he is threatening this c7 check, which So, black has to do something about this. So, exchanging the knights is the most obvious Black saves his knight by going back. And now white plays c4. Now Black could have simply moved away this But this knight was making him very uncomfortable And this is exactly what white wanted. He unleashed the deadly move, queen to a4. If black takes the knight, then he loses his White is also threatening this deadly discovered in between. But guess what, that's a big big blunder checkmate. Now do me a favour, please smash that beautiful Alright, our next trap arises out of the Sicilian We have knight f3, d6 &amp; white goes for d4. Takes, takes &amp; usually, black develops this White defends it. And here, black has two popular responses. A6, which is the Najdorf variation, preventing But in this game, we are going to look at dragon variation. Here's how white sets up his trap. He goes f4, which is the Levenfish variation. And here, if black is not careful &amp; goes for gone. Let me show you how. White pushes e5, attacking the knight. Even if he takes, white takes back. And now, black has to do something about this Let's look at all these options. Going back to g8 doesn't make sense because The 2 most popular responses are g4 &amp; d5. Let's look at them one by one. If he goes to g4, then white has this deadly He cannot block this way with the bishop or And if he blocks with the knight like this, his rook. Therefore, blocking with the bishop or knight What else can be done? He can simply move away his king, right? Well, black tried that, but failed because Can you find it? Well, it's the brutal, knight e6 check. He can't move his king here &amp; if he takes In fact, in this game, the black player took So, in this position, moving the knight to Now let's see what happens if he goes to This time the queen is supporting this knight. Now, here again, white goes bishop b5 check. Again, black can't block with the knight from defending this knight. Getting the knight here also results in the But he can play king f8 &amp; now this check won't But don't worry, what you can do here is Just look at this position, the rook is eyeing can attack from here, the bishop can come so all in all, this is a fantastic game to The engine gives almost a 4 point advantage So let's go back &amp; look at a few more options What if he goes to h5. Again, we give a check. Let's say he blocks with the bishop or knight. Now you'll play g4 &amp; believe it or not, Now you might ask why do we need to give a The point is that if you play g4 immediately, knight twice with the queen &amp; bishop, so if Or else he can simply move his knight here. But in this position, once we give a check the knight &amp; hence you capture this knight Going back, let's look at one final option This is not played that often, but it is actually But having said that, white still ends up If he takes with the pawn, then it's a fork And if he doesn't take &amp; plays something follow up with the same bishop b5 check &amp; continue earlier. All in all, white ends up in a much better Moving onto our third trap which arises out Black responds with the most popular move, White says, 'no, thank you' &amp; pushes his Then black brings out his bishop. He wants to move this pawn, so first, he gets Now white decides to take charge of the center. Black takes &amp; white takes back. Now here, black has many options, but he comes He decides to take the knight first, then pawn. But his greediness turns out to be very costly White plays bishop c3, adding a defender to And now whatever move black plays, white simply There's no escape square for this helpless 1. Moving onto our fourth trap. Here, white plays the Smith Morra gambit, Then we see a few normal development moves And after bishop c4, we reach a critical point The 2 most popular responses by Black are By the way, if he plays something like bishop sacrifice. After which, we have the knight check &amp; finally, So, this is a great trap, but now I want to Here, E6 is still okay for black. But in this game, black plays knight f6, a And now, white starts setting up his trap If he takes with the pawn, then we have the And now, if he takes with the knight, then on the queenside. And if he takes with the king, then his kingside Therefore, in this position, black says, 'forget the knights first.' But by doing this, he dug his own grave. Can you guess what white played here? Yes, he went for the bishop sacrifice. The king is forced to move away from his partner Moving onto our next game, let's look at Here, white plays the surprise move, a3. He wants to push b4, exchange these pawns Black is aware of this so, he brings out his White still pushes forward. After takes, takes &amp; takes, black is up a And ultimately, after two more moves, white This is exactly how white wanted it to be. By the way, in this position, if black plays Then we have the sneaky move, b5. And more often than not, this knight would So, this is also a cool line to trap the knight. Anyway, when we reach this position &amp; white &amp; attack the knight. Because of this, we see black playing d5. So white captures &amp; black recaptures with Now here, white plays another unusual looking Black has a couple of options here. He can play a normal development move like the knight. In any of these cases, white simply moves Two of the most popular responses are bishop If bishop d6, then he can pack his bags and to g4. You might think what's the problem here? He's attacking the pawn, so what? Black can simply push it forward &amp; everything But my dear, we have a queen trap here. Can you find it? Yes, its bishop c4. If he takes the bishop, then knight d6 check And if he steps away, he loses his bishop So that was bishop d6. What if he decides to take back his queen Well then, white gets his bishop into the this check. Alright, let's see what happens if instead We continue with the usual moves, but here Knight generally goes back and you push further. Preventing this knight c7 check seems almost winning advantage. Going back, one final variation that I want development move like knight f6. Again, knight b5, queen d8 &amp; e5. This time the knight can go to e5 because But now white can play bishop f4 &amp; again this If he defends the knight, you just keep attacking And as you can see, black's ship is already All these pieces are stuck on the backrank In this variation, you always have the advantage trap your opponent. Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn &amp; it's Can you find it? Do share your answers in the comments section Let's see how many of you can solve this. Guys, don't forget to Like and Subscribe and up on your screen right now. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in