(dramatic music) - [Narrator] It lords A mega-world two and of all the other This spinning giant whips ferocious hurricanes, and treacherous magnetic fields. A spacecraft charges daring the planet Jupiter Juno is part of a larger effort to glimpse a time over when planets were Flung into space or It was a time when the and fragile world (light dramatic music) The Greeks called him The king of the gods hid behind swirling clouds. Only his wife, the goddess of mists to catch NASA's Juno, the Jupiter left Earth on a the mysterious To find clues to that churn beneath its And some of 300,000 Jupiter holds over of the solar system Juno is the latest in designed to measure the how it got so large, and how it shaped Earth. (light funky music) To understand astronomers have been watching another solar system take shape. Out in the constellation Pictor, 63.4 light years away, a is growing its first One is large enough the star to be photographed. Beta Pictoris B. Astronomers have now seen it Look at Beta Pic and of our solar system more The observed planet is Only clouds of and countless small objects With matter swirling into it, the planet is likely a and magnetic energy. Likewise, its distant is surrounded by a raging The king planet's magnetic field is 20,000 times stronger Looking up from Earth, if magnetosphere in the night's sky it would appear wider Jupiter's zone of magnetic that it flares out beyond a lightning bolt hurled by Zeus Jupiter's magnetic of a powerful double dynamo. One is down deep and the other close to the When Jupiter's moon, Io, moves it emits powerful strong enough to be Volcanic eruptions of charged particles They, in turn, energize that light up the poles A haze of charged particles forming a belt of the lethal dose for humans. Flying by in 1973, Pioneer of this radiation within 130,000 kilometers A year later, Pioneer 11 of the great red spot, Jupiter's The Pioneer findings of the Twin Voyager spacecraft. Launched in 1977, engineers components from radiation. That allowed the some 19,000 images of Jupiter's ghostly rings. The startling icy Europa and Ganymede and on its inner moon, Io. The Galileo Mission got Galileo sent back a treasure about Jupiter's atmosphere. With a composition nearly Jupiter offers a of our solar system some (intense dramatic music) Stars and planets of gas and dust contract, often quickened by the A shockwave from the the cloud to As matter flows into its center, temperatures rise high enough Within the disc, billions collide and stick rings called chondrules. Attracted to one and static electricity, Pebbles become boulders. And finally, planetesimals. These kilometer-scale sticking together Meanwhile, matter continues As the star brightens, winds pushing the remaining At some distance out, temperatures in the for water, methane, ammonia to form solid crystals. Out here, objects made of rock and ice come together quickly By this process, the To withstand Jupiter's Juno's electronic circuits were Its components were built of Every part of Juno that can Launched on August Juno is formally known as the It was the second launch of This series of is designed to expand our and deliver new insights into the origins of the solar system. (light music) The first mission, traveled nine and a half years It mapped the surfaces of collected information and found clues to their The third mission, was sent out in 2016 to an The idea was to actually pick up rocks and These samples will help not only about the birth but the origin of that helped spark the To score important new science, these missions have each taken on daunting For Juno, the challenge without getting fried by its To do this, the a series of highly to track across Jupiter's poles. Then to dive beneath and pass within 4,100 kilometers Out of each 53-day orbit, Jupiter spends just two hours The craft spins three allowing its about 400 slices of Besides photographing its Juno is performing a When scientists they see structures like Cyclones, anticyclones, jet streams, storms And yet Jupiter and are radically different. For one thing, the It also rotates faster from the sun's The intricate structures are a window to Juno's data shows that extend down as deep Below that, magnetic and pull the planet Deeper still, scientists is a sphere of metallic hydrogen surrounding a solid Throughout most of scientists theorized that form in long orbits While these planets a rich supply of Planets inside the because there is less solid food during their formative years. This general understanding by recent exoplanet discoveries. The Kepler Space Missions, planet-hunting systems, have stars with orbiting worlds. So far, few resemble The inner orbits of are graced with large gas giants the that whip around their Some are being stripped of Then, there's a class At about twice the mass they occupy the innermost orbits of many other solar systems. It turns out that the within these inner regions It's a class of gas dwarves that weigh up to Smaller, Earth-sized How did our solar system evolve in such a different direction? The answer may lie in As Juno passes in her path bends in of mass beneath its surface. Because Jupiter isn't solid, those regions are free Jupiter spins faster in the solar every nine hours and 55 minutes. That bulges is its equator By plotting tiny variations investigators can of mass below the surface. What Jupiter is made of, how forcefully it now spins, and how massive or These are all clues as to Our solar system with the remnants of its birth. Wandering rocks since they formed almost Most are so small that they simply burn up A few larger ones Scientists date these by measuring molecular of two particular metals. Tungsten and molybdenum. These meteorites two separate in the inner and the Something must have these two regions If this great divider it had to of grown very fast. Reaching about 20 within the first million Its gas giant neighbors, would've formed in its wake. By dividing the solar Jupiter would've cut into the inner solar system, of large rocky planets Then came one of the in the history of One set in motion by (light dramatic music) The discovery of within the inner regions has prompted a whole If these giant the ice line then could Jupiter have To test this idea, scientists to reproduce the early They plant a set of into a program the interaction of gas and The simulation takes us into of the galaxy five Shock waves from a supernova causing it to collapse into Near its center is a of dust, gas and water. In its eye, matter flows into a newborn star Flashes of light within collisions among larger objects. Concentric rings The large orbit on the the first full-sized From its position it has scooped up huge amounts Within a million Jupiter responds to and the mass of the The model shows known as the Grand Tack. As the giant planet's it sends the inner Jupiter flings most large around the outer solar system Finally, Jupiter feels the Saturn. And retreats to the Jupiter gradually settled back That left some 20 or 30 to patrol the Here, the simulation the next 50 million years. As these embryos their orbits destabilize. When the dust finally settles, perhaps a hundred the number of planets Including Earth and a Everything changed when Earth (suspenseful music) A computer model gives us a Theia sheers about a Its shattered remains in a shockwave of A molten ring forms subjecting Earth to a Within only a century, will cool and coalesce into The moon. The violence of the moon's spinning rapidly on a A day lasted only In time, the moon stabilized holding it steady. As it moved out to its it gradually slowed If the Grand Tack theory of the inner solar system, a host of details that've Why, for example, The idea is that the dust that accumulated starving Mars. What explains differences classes of asteroids? The asteroid Bennu, at roughly appears to be a fossil sailed toward the sun. This dark object is made up born in the explosion Bennu itself is a In its four billion the asteroid has pulled apart and reformed. To trace the asteroid's origins, scientists have launched with the goal of returning a They plan to send another to an ensemble of asteroids These so-called trojan asteroids take their name from inside the giant horse The thinking is that Jupiter within the first million (light music) Then, there's the A vast hoop of rocks Scientists believed that as during the Grand an original ring When Jupiter moved back out, it drew a whole new By studying the composition including a dwarf scientists hope to (blasting) Finally, the giant planet from the early solar system. Most of its 79 moons captured over the too close to the giant planet. The four largest If Io, Europa, Ganymede or we'd call them dwarf planets. Scientists believe from a disc of ice and debris that circled Jupiter very All four are in tidal mark. Like our own moon, each keeps Io, the volcano moon, Io shows what can come to an unsympathetic god. Heaved and stretched by with Jupiter, and warped with the other Io is constantly being With hundreds of volcanoes, to altitudes up Io is the most geologically Next is Europa with its bright, young, glossy surface Ganymede, with a diameter is the largest moon Larger even than Then, there's Calisto. Two million kilometers Spacecraft sensors have shown Europa, Calisto and Ganymede, hold different amounts of In Jupiter's early flowed into the The Grand Tack model would've shrunk as the The two larger ice forming before that. Europa formed later and had And Io had almost none. Jupiter's major all of the planet's icy bounty. On its inward journey, a wave of ice in its wake. Delivering water have filled Earth's oceans. Once settled back in Jupiter, along with more icy material to (dramatic instrumental music) Shards of rock and Earth, Venus, The lunar landscape today A 300 million year the Late Heavy Bombardment. Based on data from the moon, scientists estimate that by at least four objects Each capable of turning Earth's entire surface to molten lava. These collisions may critical to the emergence of The impacts blasted like uranium and That allowed the to rapidly cool and Scientists believed that Earth was a water planet (dramatic music) Zipping along at 200,000 the Juno spacecraft to pass from pole to pole. In that time, it records of a world that remains a Winds up to 650 whip cold clouds of methane, and other compounds into Sometimes white fly over the wide making it seem to disappear It's cold in the clouds, about Deep within the atmosphere, may form between the White spots mark the rising and falling Twirling storms explode propelled by heating They unleash lightning and stronger than It's the polar regions the first time ever by Juno Here, the belts and zones disappear and the by an ensemble of hurricanes. During it's fourth Juno's infrared captured these structures The northern pole surrounded by each over 4,000 kilometers wide. The bright yellow colors The darker red colors They lightly arise of smooth horizontal and turbulence at the poles. The spin of the planet causes This raw sequence gives a sense By contrast, the is surrounded by five cyclones. From on Earth's perspective, even these smaller Up to 7,000 or about the width of Mars. Why these structures persist (light piano music) If there's a single that has held us in its thrall, Juno has been flying at an altitude of Close enough to Historical records show is at least 350 years old. Astronomers have been At about 16,500 it's 10 times larger than Juno's data suggests heats the planet's The big cyclone rotates once every six Earth days. That period has been getting The color sometimes fades No one knows why. (light music) It was the bright that attracted Galileo His small telescope to resolve the four large If another world could have it seemed possible that Earth could be a satellite of the sun. If only we could go back close ups of Jupiter How amazed he'd be to learn are common in solar systems That billions of through our own Destroying worlds, setting What would he say of left in its wake a quiet zone? Where a world with oceans and over time, (light piano music)