- Are they still in front there? - So they got there, He came running, they fired with Kalashnikovs The little one is here. He was stabbed here, Are you okay? Aren't you scared? I'm the doctor, you see? What are those stab wounds? Where did they hit the face? On these roads, just a few months ago, fighting was raging. New force against government troops engaged in bloody clashes. Today, after several years of conflict, the country is experiencing a fragile peace. The Licorne force of the French army, ensures that this stability is maintained. The guerrillas have reached an agreement with Abidjan. For now, the status quo reigns. Within this intervention unit, the men of the second foreign infantry regiment of the Foreign Legion. - There is no such thing as a trivial mission. The fulfillment that the legionnaire finds is in the accomplishment of his mission. Tomorrow the Legion is sent into battle. I am certain that the legionnaires as our ancestors did, 30 years, 50 years ago. Mission of the day, Deployment areas must be secured, and foreign nationals To prevent a resumption of fighting, the United Nations Security Council fights against arms trafficking and monitors movements around rebel units. To carry out this mission, the men of the Legion have no right to make mistakes. The slightest misstep can escalate. On patrol with Warrant Officer Robin Hemmer's men. They form a mortar support section, and a unit equipped with the Milan system, the anti-tank weapon of the French infantry. - The numbers, I will check them with which were made by the other mandates. And there, I'm going to check if it fits well, And have any other weapons moved since the post. They are already listed. Well, even if they changed the post, Weapons that are not listed, weapons that arrived. - I was 14, and with my father, I went to see And these are the last troops And it was my father who explained to me He didn't walk long anymore. Warrant Officer Robin Hemmer's section in the trust zone, a buffer zone which separates the New Forces in the north of the National Armed Forces of Cote d'Ivoire in the south. The Foreign Legion enjoys a special status within the French army. Her feats of arms in theaters of war The men in the white caps, have always remained faithful to their values A true elite corps, the Foreign Legion under machine-gun fire. She holds her always ready to be engaged The legionnaires have only one goal, - The bivouac area I chose here so even if it rains, Not right away at least. Before entering the area, to be sure to have a connection And there we will install the large antenna It is imperative, we can't do anything. Normally with this, with this we should have 20 to 30 kilometers of range. Since its founding in 1831, more than 35,000 legionnaires have fallen in combat. The Legion has forged its reputation But the myth also has its roots in the capacity of this army to gather together the damned soldiers or partisans, giving them The Legion draws its strength from the union not by the blood received, - These people, they come voluntarily And so they are attached to the Legion which So at the same time this need that they have and this attachment that they have Well, of course, And this recognition, to integrate and work - Well, guys, congratulations, At any time, the French government can high intensity or deploy it for peace-making missions. To strike, to intervene, to keep the peace. The Legion is able to adapt Terrains, climates, The legionnaire, for his part, - There I was taking GPS points all along the route and when I get back, on paper also on a computer file to the cell at the GTA PC which takes care of of the practicability of the tracks, etc. So this is information Where we passed this morning on the tracks, there is no track marked on the map, Field patrols have several enrich the topographic database of the theater of operations, show yourself to the local population To progress on the difficult terrain of Ivory Coast, the legionnaires have armored vehicles. The VAB is designed to carry 12 men. Its qualities: hardiness, mobility, speed. In 3 days, Warrant Officer Robin Hemmer's section will cover 400 kilometers on the red slopes of the Ivory Coast. The men of the support section continue their patrol towards the west. For them, the imperative is to occupy the land permanently. In Ivory Coast, the night must no longer belong to troublemakers. Mark the presence of the army to prevent the country from falling back into in the horrors of war, to push their physical limits. They were trained to live several days confined in the passenger compartment of the VAB. The nature of modern conflicts imposes fast movements - We can't hold on. Staying in the VABs all the time without sleeping. Every 8 hours, they watch, it's the moment when and then it changes. Even in civilian life But sometimes we work 26 hours a day. - There, we have just done a night patrol in a village in a trusted zone. This is mainly We have not made contact with the population and That means, we don't walk around like that, you never know what's around the corner. The more time we spend together, Like this, I begin to know and my men will know The most important thing is the precision of the orders. Maybe something special to the Legion. When there are people who have a This is where you have to try to be of what they are told When you give your order. - The guard, the chief, he repeats it every night. Guard duty is in uniform, And the guard is well done. who didn't understand anything, The danger is not that I catch you or the boss. The danger is that you get up in the morning. You have more Rangers because they So the sentry who stands guard it's a sentinel who will fall asleep So do it right - You looked for it, Now the guard will be carried out as follows. 2 relief officers with table, chair and lamp. You split the night in 2. And you make me the relief of all the sentries. Sentries, bulletproof vest, helmet. Is this understood? - Our motto Legio Patria Nostra, The Legion is my country. It's more than a country, Now that I am, now The Legion embodies a traditionalist vision of the army, rooted in ancient values and a taste for rusticity. But it does not ignore technological developments. This military body, accustomed to harshness, is also called upon to test the latest technical advances in the field. In Ivory Coast, the men of the second REI in a real theater of operations, a battlespace digitization system. - Currently, we are working with It is a system of digitizing digital maps, To put it simply, it's a small internet Which means that both receive items by mail and in a clear, limpid and rapid manner. The regimental information system is a system that will connect on a horizontal plane That is to say that I, on my computer, and I can give orders But also I will know what is happening in the company on the right or in the left company, I will have knowledge and the whole regiment - Arriving at a position where so we have the on-board GPS system, from the village axis where there might be a problem Just to look for French nationals who are scattered throughout the Ivory Coast you have the information and the possibility that your good old GPS in hand, because obviously, there, We still have the whole of Ivory Coast - The mission went well and now armament, equipment if everything is complete. The most important thing is not to lose anything and that the men and equipment are in good condition. - If I have to say to the assault, that there are 35 men For that, we can't just say, I was told I was responsible, I was given internships, I have training. I can order them. It takes a personal investment to be sure that they, and that I trust them. This time, if the mission sometimes it lasts At the end of the patrol, the adjutant's section did not encounter any clashes. But the harvest of information collected justifies the 400 kilometers traveled. For the legionnaires, these outings are that break the daily routine and also legitimizes their status as peacekeepers. Return to the base camp near Bouake, a place where people can recharge their batteries while waiting for the next the legionnaires begin here of their life as soldiers Each mission return responds to a very specific protocol. First step, unload the equipment. Habit, training and a sense of organization ensure optimal performance. The officers ensure that the legionnaires' attention does not slacken. Armament, the object of all attention. After each outing, the ammunition is scrupulously counted and the weapons cleaned. Any failure is severely punished, the dungeon. Combat equipment is the legionnaire's most precious possession. Nightmare of African tracks, in organisms, guns and engines. The soldier always keeps which jams in the heat of the moment. Each legionnaire is able to disassemble in less than 5 minutes in any weather. Human survival depends on it. - It has to work well, because there, there were wars here, There you have to be ready for anything. I think that we must, we must shoot right It's not for fun. To kill someone with that, To create a legionnaire, He must be taught to live in a community, to love what he does. To participate fully in this life. For a fighter, The enemy of the soldier is inaction. To keep the workforce permanently occupied the legionnaire becomes a builder. Rebuilding ruins is the best way to The health of the population is another concern of the leaders. Every week, the doctor at the Bouake base organizes a free medical action. Sergeant Linden and his group provide and the smooth running of the operation. In a country scarred by several years of civil conflict and deprived of basic medical structures, the care provided by the doctors are a relief for the villagers. - What we are doing here, to the population, free of charge, in a country where healthcare structures are, let's say, non-existent. Since the conflicts of 2004. It is not my priority mission My priority mission is to support the forces, so to care for the soldiers But, we have a little time. We also have some equipment, to help these people. Rest is taking care of yourself to the pressure of the work required. Reading, television, video games are the only leisure activities for his men. Between each mission, are not allowed to leave the camp for entertainment. While waiting for the next intervention, their physical endurance. are the legionnaire's outlets in the camp. The tensions built up on the field Each soldier brings his or her martial arts traditions to the Legion. - We learn well how to make holds how to do excavations, of someone coming with a knife. Simple things, but things There is no magic trick, you have to practice and then it will come by itself. - These are simple, but effective tips. We learn this well when we do a commando training course in Djibouti. We were there last year, and we learned all that there. - Like everywhere, we don't necessarily get along very well with everyone, but for now, we're managing well. There have been no fights yet. It's part of the social qualities that when you don't get along Either we discuss it or we avoid each other. - Well, obviously, we don't put the There are 2 or 3 legionnaires who from they have something to reproach themselves for. What we commonly call banana trees. And they participate in the work and this allows them to be forgiven. The legionnaires were originally These are people who came So there are some strong heads. It is necessary to maintain a level of discipline that the day we say &quot;to the assault!&quot;, we will have a section As they say at the Legion, When we get to 56, but that's how it is. - The white cap. We did the training for the white kepi. We spend 1 month on the farm. it is sacred. He still wears the green beret. He is waiting - These legionnaires who come to serve all these stateless people. To give them a new homeland which is the Legion, also through their leader. Give them a sense of service to France. So the love of the leader, that's a primary goal in combat. That's what the chief takes them So it's a value, But somewhere, it's always this that it is necessary to cultivate. - Second Foreign Infantry Regiment Rest. I thus had the privilege of commanding an exceptional regiment. Where we command without looking back I have lived these years among you I will forever remember - The legionnaires of the second foreign infantry regiment, you will now recognize here present, and you will obey him in - He looks, he judges therefore there also to be able to bear the gaze Here in operation for 4 months, to be master of the situation, master of his men, that's for sure. It is the duty of the leader. And that is why before you become a leader, who will become leader. Second Foreign Infantry Regiment The cult of the ancients is very important to the Foreign Legion, it is the values that have allowed and these values which will allow us Legionnaires regularly fall on the different theaters. he reconnects with the feats of arms of yesteryear. The feats of arms that shaped the myth of the Legion are the result of intensive training. The exercise and incessant repetitions are levers of psychological pressure on permanent alert. The sniper unit Scenario, an enemy group is approaching Objective: eliminate their leader. The main interest of the exercise is to repeat the coordination group approach movements - The level of excellence is above all a state of mind. It is above all a state of mind as I said earlier, For an army that is much smaller with more missions outside, but that is common to the entire French army. So how can we be better? You have to force yourself to find the time to What we are trying to do. The Mortar section must be mobile and ultra-fast in its deployment. The men have a few minutes You need to get set, and transfer them to the mortar. It can fire up to 20 rounds per minute. A dry run simulation exercise that and which is put into practice at least - It was all right, except for the little glitch at the beginning. A correct battery setup, it takes less than 1.30 minutes, that is, the oriented parts It is important to know on the battlefield and the artillery with the battery detection radars, 8 minutes we are spotted. The efficiency is too slow. you re-point the pointers too often. You point both shells, and at most, you only correct the tilt. One shot, we align the fire potato bubble. In France, it's not the same thing, What we do as work here, If one day the comrades, we have to be fast and efficient. And we're going to eat some dynamic drill Is this okay for everyone? Go to the disposal of the mortar group leaders. You recondition the VABs. And then to group leaders forward. - Today, the French army Here we are carrying out a peacekeeping operation. In Afghanistan, actually a peacekeeping operation. We have no war to fight. But I honestly think that the section I will have confidence, if tomorrow we should fall into an ambush. I'm not saying that everyone I'm not saying that everyone will be But I think we'll get through this fine. And we carry out the mission to the end, As long as the men in the white caps are to honor the memory of the elders, and not refuse individual sacrifice, from Asia to Africa, deployed in the only homeland it recognizes, itself. Our Fatherland Legion.