Just about 30 years ago, we didn't have solar system. Today, thanks to advances in technology and 5,300 exoplanets - alien worlds that are out At first, these discoveries mostly involved have expanded, we've started to uncover smaller, Scientists have already found more than 50 over 800 worlds with radius less than one We don't know of many such planets orbiting - where the conditions are just right to support But that's already starting to change. As our search for habitable planets continues, systems with more than one potentially habitable And we already know about at least one such [LOGO] Our Milky Way galaxy has numerous compact to our Sun. However, planets orbiting closely to these for supporting life. But when it comes to colder, fainter stars, closer. This is Gliese 667 [GJ 667], a triple star just about 23 light-years from Earth. It contains the first known example of a system habitable rocky planets orbiting within its Similarly to Alpha Centauri, the system has GJ 667 A is a K-type main-sequence star and This orange-red dwarf has a mass of 73%, a about 12% that of the Sun. At an average distance of 12.5 AU is its companion, dwarf about 69% the mass of the Sun, and it luminosity. And just like with Alpha Centauri, the most Gliese 667 C is an M-type red dwarf with a 33% x Sun; Radius: 34% x Sun]. It's also incredibly faint [Luminosity: 1.4% a surface temperature of 3,775 Kelvin [Sun Yet, despite its small size, GJ 667 C has Initially, scientists thought there were only after revisiting existing data and making may actually be six planets in the planetary potentially habitable super-Earths. So what exactly is a &quot;super-Earth&quot;? The term is used to describe a planet that's as the gas giants like Jupiter and Saturn. These planets can be made up of rock, or a atmospheres that could support different life The closest planet to the star, Gliese 667 degF]. Being the most massive one in the system, probably has a very thick atmosphere and orbits The three potentially habitable planets in away from their host star, and they all have Earth, making them great candidates for habitability. Gliese 667 Cc, the next closest planet, orbits zone. It has a mass about 3.8 and a radius 1.8 times Earth days. With the Earth Similarity Index of 0.85, it planets. Because of the low energy output, the habitable very near to the star, ranging from 0.11 AU the orbit of Mercury. To compare, Earth is located at about 1 AU Our planet would be an ice world if it orbited GJ 667 Cc orbits its parent star eight times around the red dwarf every 28 days. Because of such proximity, the exoplanet is eternal day on one side, and eternal night Drastic temperature differences between the the global climate on the exoplanet. Gliese 667 Cc gets about 10% less light than But since most of the light it receives is of energy as our planet does from the Sun, and result in a similar climate to Earth. Because scientists don't know for sure if it could be, it's impossible to predict Cc. If the planet does have an Earth-like atmosphere, across the entire planet with a pleasant 30degC Living on such a planet would be a much different GJ 667 Cc receives a faint reddish light from The other two stars, Gliese 667 A and B, are further than the distance between Pluto and However, the two other suns would still be the daytime, and at night, they would shine And our Sun would appear as a distant star. Unfortunately, the nearby red dwarf is known and energetic particles up to a thousand times This could be problematic for any potential planet is located close to its flaring host And the strong magnetism of the red dwarf output of the star by up to 40% for months, light emissions, would be another issue for Living on Gliese 667 Cc would be nothing like it is. The higher mass of the exoplanet means different This world is rocky, and so the gravitational what we experience on Earth. A person weighing 75 kg [165 lbs] on Earth Gliese 667 Cc. In addition, a planet with higher mass can higher atmospheric pressure at the planet's In case it has an atmosphere similar to Earth's, times higher, but if the exoplanet has a Venus-like hundred times greater, equivalent to the water oceans. Despite its location in a habitable zone, as Earth. Life forms on Gliese 667 Cc may have to adapt high atmospheric pressure, and frequent flares. But this doesn't mean life cannot form on We've already seen examples of remarkable The two other potentially habitable planets Gliese 667 Ce [Mass: 2.7 Earths, radius: 1.45 radius: 1.45 x Earth] are both located farther less energy. This could make them too cold to support life But, unlike with GJ 667 Cc, having a thick life on these planets as it would trap heat Spotting three such worlds in the habitable rare, but four is almost unthinkable. According to one study, five planets in the solar radiation ranging from 20-200% of the makes them all candidates for potential habitability. But there are other factors in play. Scientists have determined that for a planet zone around Gliese 667 C has two boundaries. The inner boundary lies between 0.095 and the outer boundary lies between 0.241 and Any planet orbiting within these distances it would have the right conditions for liquid If a planet is too close to its star, the escape, making the planet uninhabitable. This happens because water vapor is a greenhouse to rise to intolerable levels. Only the planets at the inner edge of the resistant to the moist greenhouse effect. On the other hand, if a planet is too far 667 g, it risks being covered in ice. While gasses like CO2 can warm the planet cool the planet down by reflecting light away. So there's a limit to how much CO2 can help In 2013, astronomers made an announcement and there's a possibility of a seventh planet, Although highly controversial, the exoplanet Star C, with a mass of at least 1.1 times C and B. Because of its mass and proximity H would be too hot for any life to form. But planets F and E are confirmed to orbit And although the estimated location of the habitable zone, its orbit is still uncertain. This means Gliese 667 Cc, Cf, Ce, and possibly The discovery of densely packed planetary 667 C, points to the existence of numerous each with several potentially habitable planets. And since M dwarfs account for more than 70% number of such promising planetary systems than ever thought. Instead of searching for a single potentially can now focus on one star to find multiple As new and advanced telescopes are being developed, universe is growing at an exponential rate. What star system would you like to hear about Sound off in the comments. Stay tuned here to be the first to hear about make sure you click the super thank you button Thanks for watching!