&gt;&gt; John Boyd: All right. I'm John Boyd. It Kahneman today. And I just want to give you He started in 1954 received his bachelors from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. In of California Berkeley right across the bay his coauthor Amos Tversky published their to change the way people reframed the argument under uncertainty. Several years later in Prize largely on the work of Prospect Theory his perhaps more so because there isn't a Nobel Prize in economics. And as far as I psychologist, who's won a Nobel Prize and we could argue about that. Years later, in Kahneman as one of their own when the American Distinguished Contribution Award. And today School of Public and International Affairs about his new book Thinking Fast and Slow. to take the world's information and to make And all information, all knowledge, is important, others. Because the information that he'll it's about each of us. And, if you'll listen think about yourself and the world around Kahneman to Google. [Applause] &gt;&gt; Kahneman: Thank you. Well, I think intuition I'll be talking about intuition. There are is the pro and the con. And of course, many Blink which although it's not unconditional the impression that sometimes we magically Within the discipline of psychology and the headed by a very interesting figure called Its Sources of Power is one of his books that are great believers in expert intuition. The in general and including expert intuition. skeptics because my early work with Amos Tversky of intuitive thinking. Today you find that in medicine among the popular writers; two Jerome Groopman and Atul Gawande. They clearly systems, very skeptical about human judgment Groopman being in fact, although he doesn't medical intuition. Of course he likes physicians system and the issue in medicine is &quot;What how do you allocate that with actually, part of the background for what in which I engaged with about eight years guru of a group of people who really, I wouldn't don't like what I do because they think that an unjustly unfavorable picture of the human Seven or eight years ago I invited him and to figure out where is the boundary? Where And I think we can tell. And we wrote a paper of vicissitudes that we went through since the title of which was A Failure to Disagree, we both agree where you can trust intuition changed. He still hates the biases and doesn't and I think that errors of experts are quite there. There are two modes of thinking that one mode, one way for thoughts that come to lady that she's I think adjust as quickly to dwell a bit about this. It is this is not the impression that she is angry. Doesn't something that happens. It happens to me. experience in those judgments. And that is we don't decide to see it. It is true of impression. thinking. It just happens. It comes from somewhere. is another way that thoughts come to mind to your mind, but the answer is 408. To produce of operation. You have to retrieve the program of steps. You have to go through the steps. partial products and so on. And keep things This is how it works. This is something that you. And there are many indications that this and this is how it works: pupil dilates. This ago that people really on a program like that going to do it in your head, your pupil will as soon as you engage in that. And it will it will sort of collapse back to normal size answer. So this is another way thoughts come way. Here we are we feel a sense of urgency. and a very important aspect of it this is is basically, if you want the quick introduction do while making a left turn into traffic. the reason is that there is limited capacity capacity or those resources at one task less is another function of System 2. And here are familiar with it. A bat and a ball together Of course how much does the ball cost? How okay. So it's still usable. The point about mind. And the number is ten cents. And everybody very few exceptions. People confess that the Now, it's wrong. Ten cents and dollar 10 is is interesting here is that at Princeton, or CalTech about 50% of students asked this And we learn something very interesting when didn't check because if they had checked, a sense of confidence that people have that us to another function of what I'll call System those automatic and activities and System one. And the reason that I classify this as controlling your attention and deliberate activities. So, if for example, a trivial digits in their head and you then give them cake and virtuous fruit salad they're more would if they didn't have seven digits in impulses even such mild impulses as a preference you should be aware of that difference between System 2 operations, the deliberate ones, driving is a skill. And any skilled activity automatically. So you can drive and conduct into traffic, but by and large, we can drive Braking, when there is any sign of danger, you can notice while you're braking, but you it is fully automatic. Now, in some places, they learn about skids. And then, occasionally, And then System 2 will be mobilized because that comes naturally to you. You shouldn't skid. You should leave the brakes alone and Now, when people have a lot of practice with that we can tell about System 1 and System the basic innate operations, functions that to things, all this is System 1. We don't also System 1 is where skill is. That is when automatic and it demands your resources and of intuition and here I'm not sure, but I a disservice by giving us a sense there is at all and we should understand how it works. then and economist and a political scientist good definition about what intuition is. It difference between the physician recognizing from a facial expression or something and and saying doggie. The little child has no He just knows this is dog without knowing this way, this really demystifies intuition leads you to sort of a solution to the problem can you trust intuition and when can't you? regular enough so that you can learn to recognize have an opportunity to learn the regularities is highly regular. And statistically, the there is an element of chance, but there are are rules in the environment and we're exposed feedback on what is right and wrong, or fairly rules. So all of us have expert intuition master chess players. I recognize my wife's most of you can do that. There's people that driver on the next lane. And you know we get the cue but this person is driving erratically is a lot of reinforced practice and we're there are differences. Among experts, among they have and they depend in the level of So for example, compare anesthesiologists good feedback, an immediate feedback whenever those measurements in real time. Radiologists they're right or wrong. So you could expect more than you would expect radiologist to the answer about intuitive expertise. We don't pretty much when intuitive expertise is likely that intuitive expertise is not going to develop So for example, I personally do not believe to invest in can develop intuition because isn't enough regularity in what's going to We also know about political forecasters when better than a dart-throwing monkey. And they reader of the New York Times. Intuitions and that research has been done with pundits and not their fault that they cannot predict the quite good at short-term predictions. They It's not their fault. It's the fault of the And if the world is not predictable, then are marginal situations where there is some than individuals. That is the domain where of fairly low predictability. Because when at picking them up and are not good at using on the basis of experience and they will do Now, I've introduced you to System 1 and System and about skill in System 1. Now I'd like intuitions and that applies to political forecasters frequently we have intuitions that are false. are subjectively undistinguishable from expert have intuitions that are not based on expertise. that they are effortless and automatic. And I'm going to try to illuminate, shed some to introduce you to System 1. And first of might forget. I use System 1 and System 2 discipline. You are really not supposed to fairly early you're not supposed to explain agents inside the mind and explain what the are homunculi and that's a bad word in psychology. as homunculi. Now, what do I have to say in you. Those are fictitious characters. They a thing as System 1 and System 2. Don't look two systems in the brain of which one does I using this terrible language? I'm using way our minds work and to explain the background System 2, I refer you to a very good book. and it's called Moonwalking with Einstein. book is about. Joshua Foer, he's a science of the United States. You might not know there decks of cards and very, very long lists of completely extraordinary. Joshua Foer decided he was actually the champion -- the Memory is a story of how he did it. And basically some form is that memory is very, very good Memory is terrible at remembering lists. We're is superb at remembering routes through space. an ability to remember routes and not lists. you have a list and you want to remember the distribute the items on your list along the the deck of cards or whatever it is, then items one after the other, because that you happens in another context. People are very really beautifully to think about agent. Agents agents. We form global impressions of their at remembering sentences where the subject an agent is very, very good. So just remember is x is a mental activity that can be performed about System 1 if you think about it as doing It helps me think and I think it helps other you to System 1. I begin with a study, just the University in the UK and like in many places in the UK, they have a small room which make themselves tea or coffee and get some pay into the honesty box. And somebody had on top of the honesty box and of changing one. And that's the poster. Week 2 is flowers. about this is, this is something that happens to them. In fact, they have no idea about posters there. They certainly don't know the idea that the posters influence their behavior. we, a lot is happening in our mind that we at all in fact. And there is a link between not wanting to do bad things or wanting to associative memory and it gets activated. week 1 and it does something to you that you you something else. This, I just want to enumerate couple of seconds when I put this on the screen. the words. Now, you didn't intend to read had to read them. You had no choice in the came to mind probably none of them very pleasant. that happened is physical. You recoiled. This are exposed to threatening word, they move slight extent taken to be real. The symbolic face. You experienced disgust. And that is are reciprocally reinforcing. So if you make disgust. If you make a smiling face, you are So you know, one of my favorite experiments stick it in your mouth like that. And cartoons you stick a pencil into your mouth like that, muscular change is enough to feedback into fairly important, because what it means is, Then I'll pull it together. I think of System associative memory. To think of associative of ideas. And the ideas are linked to each of them are causes of other things or categories, links but you have a huge representation of the stimulus occurs, it activates a subset and then activation spreads through the associative for example, you're now and we can know that other ideas that have been activated in this whispered words in your ears, you would be like sickness and smell, instinct, and nausea, been activated. You're not aware of any of are not conscious activations. But they are ideas are partially activated, weak stimulus threshold. This again is a very important are prepared basically by this spreading activation You will be able to recognize and respond else happens. And this is there are two words happens, you know, there is really no need to create a causal link so that somehow the a conscious decision for that to happen, but As soon as a stimulus is presented, we look looks back and latches on possible causes. you know this has an effect. So temporarily, association has been created. And that happens should give you a sense of one of the functions show you something else. So this is a famous not have seen it. You read that as A B C. the 13 are physically identical. So this tells that associative machinery in System 1 work So, in the context of letters, that ambiguous In the context of numbers, it is going to two aspects here, one is the coherence and ambiguity. The ambiguity is suppressed. That case, it's a coherent interpretation. And generates associatively coherent representations or System 1 is also very pository about world to it is informed by a lot of things that of this. This is people are listening to sentences An upper class male British voice says, &quot;I all down my back.&quot; And approximately 3/10th a characteristically surprise. This is astonishing voice. You have to classify it as an upper men don't have tattoos down their back, something get a mobilization of System 2 because System calls attention. A male voice saying I believe system holds a world knowledge and uses a normal or abnormal and it does that at top I'll tell you a story about updating. It updates anecdote. You're free not to believe me. I We were some years ago on vacation in Australia evening we go to have dinner first evening Ah, surprise, coincidence and we are very later, we're in the theater in London. And lights come back on and next to me, same guy. surprised the second time than the first. [laughter] call &quot;a norm.&quot; So one event, the second event else, that is what's impressed me. If I had And that's odd if you think about statistically, that and I wouldn't say that I consciously know, if I'm going to meet someone, I'd be [laughter] thinking. And I want to give you some sense is more probable that a mother has blue eyes has blue eyes if her mother has blue eyes? an intuitive response and the intuitive response has blue eyes if her mother has blue eyes do the math on the assumption that the incidence probabilities are strictly equal but even along causal lines. Your thinking flows along of these feels okay. It feels more coherent turned into a judgment of probability. That judgment of probability. Now, I'm going to that people have intuitions that are not necessarily that are not necessarily true. And I would about how that happened. And the general idea a question that we cannot answer, typically to a related question that is easier. And question, the question that hasn't been asked call that a mechanism of substitution: substituting automatically. People are not aware that it that don't come from expertise and they are that do come from expertise but they come are several mechanisms that take part in this them. One of them which I call the mental perform an operation, you typically perform to it associatively, are related to the target example is, I'll say words and you are to rhyme or not. And the first pair of words of questions is vote goat. And vote goat is nobody else asked you to, you spelled. And Although they rhyme at least as I pronounce conflict and the conflict slows you down. to compute. And we can and that allows for you an example of the substitution here. The figures is larger on the screen?&quot; And the on the screen are of equal size. But it's on the right as larger than the figure out it. Although you were told to think of it three-dimensional solution in which the object on the left and that is what you see. There Another one I like is called the dating heuristic. a couple of questions. How happy are you and month? And if you ask the questions in that Turns out there are many things in life that important. You invert the order. So you ask month and how happy are you with your life [laughter] and example what I call a focus and an illusion. student has an emotional reaction to the question reaction is sitting there. Then you're asked knowing that you are doing this, you substitute questions. Now, it's not that people are confused not satisfaction with the number of dates. to mind to the happiness question. There has it. Now, there is a process that is essential of System 1. We can map intensities across standard example for this. It's about Julie when she was age 4 and the question is what know what her GPA is pretty much. At least 3.2. It's clearly less than 4 about 3.7 maybe people get to 3.7 or somewhere like that? at age 4. That gives us an impression of precocity. people could express that in percentiles. a child who would read faster than that? Then her GPA? Without your knowing it, you are that is about as extreme in the distribution of reading age. Completely unaware. Statistically, regressive. This is not the correct answer. This is one of the mechanisms that leads to And I'll give you one more example. International was run during a period when there were many background. How much will you pay for insurance for any reason? And how much would you pay case of a death in a terror incident? People first. And the reason that they do is that there am I? And I am more afraid, most people are, terrorist incident than they are afraid of place. Again, you know, it's that's the way And when beautiful thing about it it doesn't that it doesn't know how to answer. But it and a lot of our mental life is conducted and talk a little bit about subjective confidence. to the probability of being correct, is actually is a feeling that people have. And I think And it is System 1 if you will assessing the coherence of the story it has created to deal is coherent, confidence is high. Now, this make a very coherent story out of very little in fact not reliable. The quality of the story of the information so people can be very confident not a good diagnostic for when you can trust are to evaluate whether you can trust somebody way to do it. The way to do it as I'm saying been in? And have they had an opportunity is not a good indicator. So that's, you know, about the two systems. So let me remind you free to think in those terms, because what beginning to have an idea of the personality but having an idea of those personalities psychological events than if you were just those ideas, those personalities, have a certain in the coin of being able to make judgments. So. [Applause]. &gt;&gt; John: We have the mic up there and I also Somebody's got to ask the first question. &gt;&gt; Male # 1: Hey. How fixed or plastic are like mindfulness or emotional regulation that &gt;&gt;Kahneman: As I have described it, System regularly. So you can learn in one trial what very difficult to do is to get control over And so, I do not know of a lot of evidence you have a quiet skill which requires reinforced clearly can do is you can educate your System recognize situations in which System 2 takes avoid some mistakes. Can't be done too much. System 1, it's because I'm not. &gt;&gt; Male #2: Another question about training and the time constants and the immediacy in we have around building software development, in particular you gave a counterexample which a single incident with John predisposed you has there been any testing to see what time &gt;&gt; Kahneman: No. In terms of updating and can learn quite quickly. You can be taught else happening. And so, in that sense, System can now be developing software expertise that like learning how to be a chess master. And and a lot of reinforcement and it had better thing, the time is to some extent not a big to see it all together: the error you made major factor. In learning, you know, how to very slow. And it's a lot harder to learn smaller ship. &gt;&gt; Male #3: So this is a pretty broad question like. But I was just wondering how these systems and advertising and maybe I was thinking of &gt;&gt; Kahneman: Well, it's very clear that advertising information for judgments. It moves your emotions is intended to do and it's pretty effective. 1, a lot of political messaging. The influences are really important and we should be thinking colleagues at Princeton, my younger colleagues of facial characteristics on political preferences. of pictures of the two contestants for each of pictures to Princeton students for 1/10th competent?&quot; That predicts 70% of elections. we make for example, how much to pay in an really very rarely aware of and it's much &gt;&gt; Male #4: So in, although that you say System have there been functional MRI, diffusion-spectral that highlight whether System 1 is more primal neocortex? &gt;&gt;Kahneman: Well, you know, System 1 is extremely why I don't believe there is any simple representation what I've called System 1 operation by their and highly skilled responses. And the whole System 1. So it's hard to classify one as the reasoning system as it were is not necessarily It knows what we know and we don't know a and that all the mistakes come from System we think very seriously. Yes. &gt;&gt; Male #3: So you mention that experts when their intuition they're often wrong. But there So, is it bad for the society in general that as we are and should we be worried? Should &gt;&gt;Kahneman: I think there is a very good reason to a particular book that you may want to review of that book. It's a book by Phil Tetlock in the time range of 10, 15 years of political is who are the people we like to listen to high confidence who think they understand chance. I mean, they are worse than people need them. And so, there is a real demand &gt;&gt; Male #5: So as you were going through all time you came to the three figures on the something. So even though the lot on the right the same. So was that System 1 or System 2. &gt;&gt; Kahneman: That is clearly System 2. And both visual and cognitive. You still see it that when you see a display like that, you extent you can recognize that you're in a effect on you because she's very eloquent. And so, you force yourself to be skeptical. &gt;&gt;Male #5: Is there any research to that effect going to have an emotional effect on them? that advertising is supposed to have an emotional better suited to sort of ignore those things? &gt;&gt;Kahneman: I mean you certainly are going it whether you're capable of ignoring it altogether, thing is not to expose yourself to it. Because you. And you know, those effects are the cues be extremely powerful. There is a whole line but I must tell you that story. There is a when they're exposed to the idea of money. there is a computer nearby and on the computer are dollars floating in water. Dollar bills It makes you reluctant to ask for the help away from the chairs of other people when It has effects on all sorts of behaviors that links are symbolic. And you can be aware of to money and it's going to have some effect. if you're designing an environment for people, people of money all the time or you can create things and that will control their behavior &gt;&gt; Male #2: Although possibly not one of the yet, have you developed any empirical testing and shows where they fall in terms of default &gt;&gt; Kahneman: Well, there is a relevant scale ball question is actually a very, very good My former colleague Shane Frederick developed Test and the people who fail that item that some interesting ways from the people who you an example. You ask them, you know, standard yourself. How much will you pay extra to have day? And the people who fail this item are there are connections. What there isn't and there should be tests of intelligence that richness and subtlety of the model of the that we have are tests for System 2. They're somebody would develop it and I hope somebody &gt;&gt;Male #6: Hi. So this is sort of a 2-part more System 1 or System 2 prone for immediate like larger decisions? &gt;&gt;Kahneman: I don't know enough about this. &gt;&gt;Male #6: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Kahneman: We do know that self-control and personality characteristic. And you know its and has implications. The ability the test child you can have one marshmallow now or predicts what they will do 20 years later quite stable. &gt;&gt; Male #6: And the other part is that have have to make a decision and they're aware A their System 2 mind is telling them decision &gt;&gt;Kahneman: I don't know enough. &gt;&gt;Male #6: No? &gt;&gt;Kahneman: No, I don't know enough. [pause] on circumstance whether you impose the System just endorses what System 1 subjects to. That's it. It's hard work. [pause] Thank you. [Applause]