So three guys were and the conversation And one guy goes, people to say at your funeral?&quot; And the first guy said, I was a brilliant surgeon And the second guy to say that that I was and I made a difference And the third guy said, 'Look, he's moving.'&quot; Now, believe it or not, are saying, &quot;Look, he's moving.&quot; Do you know the 13 million have had what's called Their heart stopped beating, their brainwaves ceased, they were clinically dead, and yet modern or miracle brought them back to talk about the realities Now, I got into this because And I was an agnostic. I didn't believe in God, And someone gave that coined the term And I saw it on and I read it in &quot;Oh, my gosh, this God, because so many of them were And that opened me up. And the next year I ended And fast forward the story, I went from a career in And after 35 years of studying I finally wrote Imagine Heaven. And I wrote it for two reasons. One, for skeptics like me, because I wanted people to see there is real evidence but also for Christians, so few Christians is just the so they don't live as if And so I hope you're that's what motivated Now, a couple of things I'm skeptical of any one Here's why. What I found is each an experience that's I like to liken it like this. Imagine if this three we're having is a flat, black and white painting Okay. And death means separation. So when you die, your is peeled off that flat, and brought out into this all around you all the time. It was always there, you just couldn't You experienced color And then imagine into that two dimensional world. And you have to describe in two dimensional, flat, How would you do it? And after interviewing that's what they say Words can't really describe it, so they're having to interpret. So what I was the commonalities and how it aligns And that's what I'm I'm going to show you that I talk about And I brought some of You're going to meet a spine surgeon, a commercial airline pilot. These people didn't need to make up wild, crazy In fact, the truth is, it hurts their career But they say nothing and nothing is more important. Watch this. - Dr. Mary Neal is who shares her medical practice and her love for with her husband, Bill. In 1999, they that took Mary on a spiritual and returned to talk about. - My husband and I We enjoy traveling. We've traveled internationally And so for my &quot;Okay, this is the year So we went to Chile - After a week of kayaking, Bill sat out the final Mary and the rest of their group kayaked through a treacherous - These are drops of which for an experienced I went over the main drop and as I crested over the drop, I could see the and tremendous volume. And as I hit the the front end of my I and my boat were immediately I was absolutely pressed and I couldn't move my arms even back far enough let alone push myself out. I very sincerely asked and I meant it. - After several the group leaders realized Mary - They came out on the rocks and they kept trying but the force and the was such that they just I mean, they just At one point, they that it was really turning not so much of a rescue. I know I'd been underwater yet I feel more alive And this is more real than - And Dr. Neil was And yet she said she and she felt more So think about it, maybe you feared your and you realize this is actually And one of the they leave their body, They're out of their body, And what people this body doesn't but more like 50 senses. In fact, you've never And commonly but they're still and so they can watch the and when they come back, And that's actually as a skeptical engineer, about how many skeptical have been convinced as well. Like, Dr. Michael that I interviewed, he set out to disprove He didn't think because he had never heard And then he starts and they start telling him. And he said, like before he said he didn't And yet he said Pete described watching Dr. Sabom And he said, &quot;When exactly what he saw, he with such detail and later used the tape And Dr. Sabom said the they told similar details Like, one patient he how he saw one of the had failed to wear scuffs over And he was able to after five years he changed his mind. He came to believe that we exist after our And he published it in the Journal of the American Now, another doctor, Dr. Long, Jeffrey Long, who's read the article in JAMA, &quot;That's not true.&quot; And then he started And more and more he And he has now studied he's become a friend. He's also a follower of Jesus. But here's what he And in the book I that illustrate another another because these are He reported in The the most prestigious He reports of a guy coming into He'd been found dead in a park. But they decided they And they went to intubate him and the nurse noticed So the nurse took put them in the lower They shocked his heart, but he never came to in E.R.. Moved his body A week later, he and they can't And then he sees &quot;That nurse knows And he describes and all the doctors that and how that nurse and put them in the with all the bottles on it. And that's where they Now, these would except there's actually been Dr. Jan Holden is a studied over 100 near-death and compared them And they made And she went and 92% of them were 6% contained some error, only 2% were were So just the observations alone prove there's Now, this is not new. Actually, if you think about it, Jesus raised Lazarus And I believe the a near-death experience Stoned with rocks, by I'm from Austin. I always, you know, I'm not And so it says this I wouldn't go back in the town where they just stoned But it says this. Paul says this later in 2 I think he was Why doesn't he know? Because we still are ourselves. We still have a body. But not with five senses, more like 50 senses, people say. And that also is a So if you think when we die, we get a new This is like version Jesus, by the way, has 3.0. But that's a talk But that's what Paul talks when he says: but they'll be raised in power, strength, it's power. And I explore more of but some of these amazing powers like, people say they could but they could see, like, of every leaf of a tree, or like communication heart to heart, no Or travel could or you could walk all kinds of experiences And we experience in new dimensions That's another commonality is after observing their many times, then people go through a tunnel, some But they come to a very much like of grass and trees and mountains and all the beauty we see here. And yet they're experiencing it beyond what we've It's really what Paul in 1 Corinthians 2: So think about it. You know, we experience Why would we think the You know, Isaiah was taken And there he says And so this earth All the beauty we see, all the things are a reflection of And yet this life is broken, it's struggling under famine Right? Everything falls apart. Why would we think God's world the way it was supposed It's more. You know, Dean He was a court supervisor. And he experienced And Captain Dale He's a commercial airline pilot who was actually He was in a twin engine plane. He was a passenger. And when it took off, it and ended up hitting a at 130 miles an hour. I've seen the wreckage Nobody survived, to describe the beauty - Things were more beautiful It was past anything that it would be like. - The colors were so alive that the most is just a reflection - The greens were greener, the yellows, the Everything reminded me that earth is a but heaven is perfection. - So one of the commonalities is they experience of time and space, flowers, in colors more vibrant And they are not of beauty like we are here. - About 52% of people describe beauty in that is beyond things that are - It seemed like everything The trees were glad I was there. The flowers were The water was glad I was there. Everything was alive. There was nothing dead - Everything was The colors, the aromas, I felt that I could but I understood them. - Gorgeous, beautiful, but it's beyond words. - I mean, just imagine to explore and we're because that's the thing, that people say is that there are In fact, heaven was You know, those who remind us that God is love and love is why He created us. And I find it ironic that of the life to come well, we won't know each other, we won't still have our And nothing could be We're ourselves, in fact, more than And it's a great Jesus tried to remind the night before His Marv Besteman was a bank who died in a hospital. And when he did, he said consisting of his that came to greet him. He said, both of my We had spent many I'm not sure if that's these two guys for me to see. They were significant In fact, everyone I in shaping my life in some way. A woman who died I recognized my grandmother and a girl I had known and many other It was a very happy occasion. I felt they had come to guide me and to protect me. And a little word because Dr. Mary this welcoming committee and they were there to And I said, &quot;Protect She said, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And here's an important thing, is that these these they're not seeing all So they may talk but they don't know it all. And that's why is interpret their because God's given They just have a They're not seeing everything. It's kind of like Mount You ever seen Mount Rushmore? Everybody's seen But have you ever seen the [laughter] No, but in Imagine you know, people experience There's a border or a boundary they knew they couldn't And I believe that this that near death experiences are not telling us They're just giving us a peek into the reality of eternity. But this is an in-between, they can still make But it does align. All of this aligns with through the scriptures, even the welcoming committee You know, Jesus You know, listen, Karen Marshall, who was in a coma and then died. And she describes And then Don Piper, who he was literally run pronounced dead for They had to cut his with the jaws of life. And yet he came back describing Watch. - Many people who have say that they have this they call it, of friends who had died already. And they come And just imagine - My family appeared. One of them put their hand out. And I knew it was - When I looked Everybody that had a part of my family My grandmother She was bright, you know, she - I was immediately greeted by a group of people, They were absolutely And I could be with them. And I knew without any and loved them as - 57.3% of those having describe meeting other beings. When a deceased during a near-death experience, they may be around or interestingly, they may - I'm surrounded by people that I had known and they were all fully recognizable - I looked straight ahead - I'm looking at this man but I knew that that was Pa. He's my great grandfather. Now, Pa was standing next to Ma. I knew her as an old When she was in heaven, This was my family. - On this right side of me were all these You'll be surprised and your pet's - So imagine, you know, that people say is that In fact, a commonality is people experience this and in His presence And what they love is what matters how we treat each other. It's amazing. And I've just finished to be coming out this And it's amazing how people, it doesn't matter what religious they're describing And you may say, &quot;Well, who doesn't believe in Jesus, why would they experience Because He's their creator. And you've got to remember It says that every even those who pierced Him. So we shouldn't everyone at some The Apostle Paul was going persecuting Jesus followers when this brilliant God Remember? And he said, &quot;Who are And he still had a And by the way, just because someone has a doesn't mean Just because they see God doesn't mean God honors our free will. They still have to will they give But all across the globe, people experience the same God. And what's fascinating, So, I give three examples of people who but when they had a they could see and they see all the same Like, Vicky was 22 when She's there in the hospital looking down on She knows she's dead. She realizes she's And as she's adjusting she takes off, travels until she comes to this she said, that And she said that in the grass, in the and even coming And this light was palpable. It was life and it was love. She said: Everything and what the light And it was like love Love came from the birds. It was incredible, And I was overwhelmed because I couldn't really It's still a very emotional Now think about Why in the world light comes out of Because they would never Light shines on And yet they describe exactly in Isaiah 60, in Revelation 21, John sees the City of God, And that's exactly And even the Prophet And many talk about comes bursting out of people. Now, sometimes we are Marv Besteman said and he was in his So, it's not always the same, but sometimes we're that allow the glory So Vicki experiences and there is Jesus, and she says more brilliant than the sun. And she knew Him and He hugged her and she could see and And she said, &quot;Nothing And then He gave Now the life review is Now, again, just like to the Lord, he says, a and a thousand And NDErs say time doesn't work And so in God's presence but not just from They see and feel felt to the people around them. And God is trying to of every little act It's just exactly what it And at that time each will Don't miss that last part. God wants to reward you for every little And I know we all, like, I don't want to look and all my shame and all that.&quot; But that's why he paid for That's what we're So that's not what we He wants to reward you. But here's the deal, God is There's nothing you can do that can keep Him out of Don't reject God, He'll give you what you want. But you don't want separation That's hell. You know, Howard Storm I interviewed. He was an atheist and his duodenum ruptured. And after nine hours on Saturday in Paris, he passed. Now, as an atheist, he thought, you just unplug the computer, So he didn't think he was dead when all of a sudden now he feels great. He's standing there in the room. He feels wonderful. And he also has a of nice people who He thinks they're but they deceive him. And they lead him into exactly what Jesus described And they turn on him Now because he had not I believe is why he And in that place he from when he was brought Jesus Loves Me. And he thought to and He is God, why And yet, in his &quot;Jesus, save me.&quot; And he sees a pinpoint of grows brighter than the sun. Arms reach out, pick him up and hold him as he realizing how wrong he was. And then He begins like a mom comforting her child. And listen to how Howard how Howard with Jesus in the - Howard, tell us about - There was a number of who had been recording And Jesus wanted in chronological order, And the entire emphasis was on my interaction Of course, initially and father and my and friends and -- - So you just saw it or you -- - We saw it, we felt It was really interesting the whole emphasis was Matter of fact, there where I had won and they skipped them. And Jesus -- I said to Jesus, &quot;You're skipping the most This is what I live Kentucky Artist of the Year. Big banquet in my honor and a big cash And He said, &quot;That's not That's not important. What I want you to see is So what I learned was that the relationship I had participated of that relationship He was not a good father and I was angry at him. So I did everything I could, subconsciously and to be as rebellious towards him as possible, and made him more So the things that I that where I was the victim and everybody else I came to find out it We were both playing this game. As my life progressed into my adulthood, completely away from and becoming a person all about the biggest, baddest And now I began to experience Jesus' and the - What do you mean? - Emotional pain with And like, here's the nicest, I've ever met, who I realize even my Creator holding trying to give me more And it was figuratively, like, stabbing Him in the heart And the last thing I wanted And I don't want to Jesus is a very feeling man. God is a very feeling creator. - What were you - I saw scenes where and I got up in the and went in and put my arms And Jesus and the angels that I had been willing to help her a little bit -- - Comforter her. But those were rare. The scenes of my seeing people as objects through or, you know, to shift to further my goals - And what God commonly just what Jesus when you do a tiny, that nobody else sees, God sees, and it's like you're And that's what He will What we do in this life this life is continuous And the next one is Now think about it. What could make Howard, come back from this and two years later to become a Christian pastor? His wife divorced him because But he met the And what people commonly and all the relationships and all the incredible nothing compares to of the one who created you, the one who loves the one who knows you and in whose presence more than you ever have before. And commonly they say You know, it says in And one day we will all And you know what is I've interviewed CEOs and doctors and And when they talk about none of them can because they say the memory's And as soon as they go there, it's like they're there again, and it's so wonderful it Captain Dale Black, you know, he has a PhD in He started several and yet listen to just thinking about being in the - Did you -- Did you see Jesus? - Later I did. That was the last After going through the and going through, at I had been ushered closer toward the light, - The light that's in - Yeah. And then that was near the glass sea, which it looked like a sea and a large angel if we would say that. And it was clear in charge of that stairway. And I'd be just began to heart to heart Did we talk? It seemed like it, but then This communication And I began to recognize I can't go up. I can't go up and still go back. And I was thinking, What do we mean? And as soon as I'm the angel moved But I looked into the kindness, most wonderful, I knew this was the Son of God. I knew this was my Savior. And all of a sudden my legs lost their strength, I couldn't stand. I was -- I was I was not worthy to Funny that I didn't feel yet I knew I was I was somehow given but I had this supernatural Somebody had done - He had. - Yes. And so I'm down on and I see His feet and I hold his feet And I know this He's my savior. He's my Lord. It is because of Him. It's so cool because no, I take that back, &quot;I have come not to but that the world And it was because He's not condemning anybody. It doesn't matter what what sins you've It doesn't matter All of it is forgivable. God can forgive And then we have this free gift that we call salvation, - And that's what - And that support. I just -- But to describe I just stopped at His feet and down on the ground there. And I heard the voice, That's it. &quot;Do you love Me?&quot; And I'm trying to think And I'm getting ready I'm getting ready to And I'm getting ready to say, &quot;Of course I love You, Lord. I remember who You are I'm getting ready to say that. And He bends down And... I'm now back. - Do you love Me? That's really the question And how do you answer that? Why don't we pray together. God, You are a god of love. And You created And Lord, maybe there's who don't know Your love. And thank You that what that we celebrate at Easter, Jesus, so that all of and future could be forgiven. And if you've &quot;I want what Jesus I want your love. I want If you want tell Him right He knows your heart. And God, thank You that You offer, relationship Heaven is a gift. And Lord, some of us, though we have maybe we've forgotten. Maybe we've forgotten and we've just been living But, Lord, today no, we do love You knowing that this life of the real life that You with you forever. We pray this in Thank you. [applause] - Wow. Great. Great. I haven't read your listened to this I've had two parts on the And I know, for I was convicted, you know, answer the right of do you believe in heaven? I know the Bible verses, but I crossed over this where I just stopped Maybe it's because who are so heavenly minded that there are no earthly good. Maybe it's because of trite spiritual answers. And so I've just, I mean, But when you talk like, freshness to looking at life this way. Why do you think may believe in heaven, but it doesn't really It's like a cloak of -- a - I mean, that is why I wrote because I wanted to see this evidence, but also to Christians and Jesus teaches this, but this life is It's not like these And He very much tells our lives does affect what Relationship with but how we live our how we move into the life to - What about these great are people who are Christians, they've read Bible verses, and so something happens they're having things of Jesus just because they know - Well, you'll have to wait [laughs] - Come on. - Not that you'll [laugther] He doesn't read. - Yes. I'm reading - Oh! All right. Sorry. - Yeah. - His men's devotional. So, but -- - I'm setting a softball. You said people Hindus and stuff who'd never - I've interviewed Hindus, They don't experience They experienced the God And many of them come back and find Jesus and - Amazing. Amazing. - So, yeah, it's -- it that God is doing and it's a global apologetic. It's a new version of from around the And in our age of bringing so many people global media, for the - It's just crazy with all of the Gallup polls, the you mentioned 900. It's just amazing more in the So I'll just close this let's not buy into the lie Let's not get deluded who gets so upset about because that's I'm not living I'm living for a life that So you've done an amazing job. Thank you, my friend. - Let's go back with a final instruction - Hey, my guess is might have brought or even blown Hey, we are not just content. We're a community of people. And if there's anything that if we can pray for you or you just want some of what you we would love to do that. You can go to Crossroads.net, or you can just even Andy.reider@crossroads.net. I'd love to pray for you. I'd love to chat with you. And hey, next week You don't want to miss it.