We are in Seon, Switzerland, Today we are meeting of all the products We are going to brainstorm and we are going to do some lab tests - Good morning! So I have the harness here, Okay! I think I see that you put your rope And we can clearly see, And there is - Looks like you've been using it for... I was even bolting with it. Even though it's super light, Nice! So with this We will put put it in our machine, We have different cycles. It goes up to 15 kN, then up and down again. All is timed perfectly All right! The dummy has the harness, and there's Then we get to the computer We can see Pretty soon, we will see You can see that at 600 kg, This is completely fine the non-load As you can also see by the colors, is what is supposed to hold The black parts on this harness and a feeling Now we're reaching So your harness Isn't it going to be the rope, No, we chose this rope. It's a 10.2, that's why we chose this one. You were correct, You were right, If we inspect it, it is a bit burned, And that's just by running The metal buckles look okay, Leg loops completely open - This is the safety stitching. The safety stitching The top one There's nothing on it. But we have We can touch and this way, without the protection, If you have a belay loop looking We have just done the test are basically over the top. They are super But accidents can happen. There is one thing that people use a sling, That is dangerous. If you do this, at least your weight, plus a little more The more you pull on this one, And that results That could not break the belay loop, So you would pull, pull, pull, The best way possible is a specific one and clip the top Then you would go lock it safely, In general, every knot or a thing that make them squeeze will eventually So maybe always have an extra The thing that you have to be But Mammut has this really smart thing which is inside here, - You should stop using it. Always in our user manual, So we define your use, daily, once a week, Then we give you an estimated time We are in Mammut facility and today we're going We have this 80 kg weight and we will be doing a fall which is super hard for the rope, The rope will be breaking here and this plate So the radius is very similar The weight will go up, higher than the plate, So we will see the fall mass and then the rope And once this is done, and the elongation These are really important numbers And then the lift will come back, again at the height, Not everyone knows especially the dynamic ropes Especially when you just hang, you hang the rope stretches and of course when you this stretch This stretch also allows us Here, we will be looking at 30 %, that will always come back It's more dynamic Exactly. We can see and the weight coming back. The rope is absorbing And we can see here so if you had this fall you would feel quite bad. - But you would survive it. Thanks to this stretching We could see when the weight the rope was After two falls, This is all the length it created and the elongation, So you always leave 5 minutes but if we waited a couple of days, Exactly, but some of it Here, the rope should break because it so the rope But if you, for example, When you're outside climbing, because you're one move higher and so on, and then the rope The first fall was about 8.9 kN, So we can see - It's less dynamic, so it's harder. 10 kN would Even if you take a huge whipper, between 2, 3, You would If you did, you would feel for the day or for a while. Now we're looking at the broken rope What is interesting, we can see here because it's always hitting with the high force. The last fall was 10.5 kN, This is the other end of the rope, We can see it on tape, We can look The core and the sheath Actually, one of those which is already enough for you And we have 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 You can look for that when you are just feeling Then you can think, OK, maybe I should cut it Let's think we are at the crag The best way to cut a rope So the best way possible But if you're at a crag, therefore sealing What is a simple solution if you don't is to grab a piece of tape and let's say So I take a little extra And then possibly we try and do one straight cut Like this. And now you would take a lighter, It is really important that no way to seal it, that we have and especially that we get Also with a knife, using it like a saw, In the same machine we can also test metallics We have to do it separately, Right here, As you can see, also some marks And the sling They are rated for 26 kN Then we could also see What happened... You can clearly see Compared to the exact it is completely different. It lost its shape and, of course, it doesn't This time it didn't explode The rating was 28 kN, so we had 2 kN margin from You could see also from the used one, So metallics are Then we could As you see, A bit dirty, which we know We're going to try and pull 22 kN is the norm Since this is static, we see that it started slow because this product That's also why this component needs Now we're almost Yes, just at 25. So what can happen with slings one of the parts touching is broken, or if the carabiner we could have When we it's really important too much heat So, if you had that Probably not. But if you find it outside, Well, I'd say to simply exchange it Giving one, if you can, But at the same time, especially fixed quickdraws So I think there was that we can trust the gear, because I think it's not much fun. On the other hand, it's about us. The human factor is the most So you should know but also be present You should never get that you just feel safe So, enjoy your climbing,