Hello It's a day with a lot of things to do My kitchen needs organizing. Daily necessities also need to be organized. I'm thinking of making a small change in the kitchen . I've changed the cookware rack. The one I was using is broken. This is something I've been putting off. . Attach a new one to a clean wall. I like this item because it's sturdy. I'll change the location of the kitchen stuff. I'll move the storage containers. This cabinet is small. I'll move them to the Irish table. Cleaning quickly. I'm hanging the shelf upside down. More storage is available here. I put small things on top of it. I'll move the seasoning container. Cleaning the rotary shelf. Remove the shelf to free up space. I'll fix it with a screw. You may not lose your shelf. It is convenient to use a rotary shelf. This is a pack used to make broth. I'm putting it in a glass bottle. I'm also organizing olive oil. I'll put it in an easy place to take it out. I'm filling the seasoning container. Many subscribers were curious about the items I use I usually buy using the '29CM' application. This time, I have a chance to introduce the items of '29CM' in person. I'll introduce the items that I picked myself. I hope it's a meaningful time for me and all of you. Let me tell you one by one why I liked these. First, it's a 'stove' pot. There are many colors, so I chose it for a long time. The color I chose is the new color. It can be used in ovens and dishwashers. This is a steak knife. I liked the soft color, so I chose it. The design is also neat. One of the most important things in the kitchen is scissors. These scissors have good cutting power and can be cleaned hygienically. This is a silicone zipper bag. It is a reusable product, not a disposable one. You can keep fruits and vegetables fresh. This is a stainless steel storage container. I liked it because there was no abrasive on it. It is a product made in Korea, so you can trust it and use it. It comes in a variety of colors and can be used in a microwave. I chose this tissue case because I thought it would go well with my room. I like stainless steel products. The design is very neat and sophisticated. I'll use it for various interiors. This towel is the one I use. I recommend it because the color and design are pretty. It is large in size, so it is highly utilized. It has 99.9% antibacterial properties. This is a towel that I use every day. I love blankets very much. I wanted to use a blanket, so I waited for fall to come. It's a picture set in Jeju Island. I'll use it for various interiors. I put it on the table. Or leave it on the chair and try it. I'm going to hang it on the wall and use it like a poster. I feel at ease. I'm going to France soon. Aren't you curious about my MBTI? I heard that France is colder than Korea. You must bring a compression pouch. It is a good item to carry thick clothes. Compression is possible as long as you have a zipper. It's an item I use every time I travel. I'm very hungry right now. I was really busy today. That's why I'm even more hungry. I'm going to cook now. I'll make steak pot rice and garlic jjong pasta. Preparing the broth first. Garlic needs to be thoroughly cleaned. I'm going to put chives in the pot rice. I like chives very much. I'll put sliced garlic in the pasta. Stir-fry large garlic in oil. I like the new frying pan. The thermal conductivity is very high. I bought beef tenderloin. Removing the blood and spraying it with pepper and salt Sprinkle olive oil. The pot should be coated with oil. I'll fry the garlic in the oil first. Now add the rice soaked for 30 minutes and stir-fry it. Apply oil coating to the rice. Add stock and soy sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. I'm going to grill the meat in garlic oil. Add a slice of butter. Now, I'll make the sauce. Cooking wine 2, allulose 1, soy sauce 2, oyster sauce 1. The sauce is done. Cleaning and cutting garlic jjong. I like the scissors. I'll boil the pasta. Bring to a boil for 8 minutes. Please leave the noodles. I'll fry the garlic in the oil. Now add garlic jjong and stir-fry it again. Lastly, add dried shrimp and stir-fry it. Garlic jjong and dried shrimp go well together. Stir-fry noodles and pasta. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. I'm cutting the steak. The knife is very sleek and has good performance. Place the meat on top of the rice. Now, put whole garlic and chives on top of the rice. Steak pot rice is done. I took out pickles and cabbage kimchi. I also put pasta on the plate. I was very hungry. It's crisp, crisp, and chewy. I'm going to eat it with sauce on it. I like the scent of chives. The steak is very soft. The sauce goes well with the meat. It's so delicious that I think of it again. It was a very proud time. I'll keep the garlic jjong. It is a product with good sealing power. I especially like the color. I think I bought something well. If you have any questions about the product, please check the more view section of the video. Now that we've eaten, it's time to go back to work Tea bags and coffee are often taken out, so they fall off quickly haha Rather than storing them in a box, if you put them together in one place It's nice to see and find Actually, obsessive-compulsive people like to organize themselves, but I don't eat cup noodles often, but I bought enough to take it to France I don't know if it's because I have low expectations for food when I go abroad, but I eat well My family finds unfamiliar food difficult, so I always bring convenient food I'm going to bring ramen, canned tuna, seaweed, and kimchi Thrillingly, the end of organizing The cabinet is full, so I keep the bag ramen in the trolley I categorize and organize pouch convenience food, rice, and instant rice A trolley is a trolley that I used to store cosmetics I'm going to move cosmetics to other places and use them to store ingredients Two storage trays fit perfectly, increasing the sense of joy It's perfect for the rest of the space under the sink I don't like piling up water and drinks, so I buy a small amount It disappears quickly and I have to fill it up often It's better because you can reduce unnecessary space We have kimchi and garlic in the refrigerator, so we also need deodorant You don't have to worry about the smell if you add the big one and the small one. I don't know if it's just me, but the daily necessities fell at the same time Tissue, kitchen towel, and even cosmetics disappear at the same time That's why I spend a lot of money on my wallet and house chores If you do housework all at once, you might feel empty because the day ends quickly I think filling up the space and organizing is one of the ways to care about me I'm more proud to think that I only move for myself even though no one recognizes me I hope you're like me, and I'll end this video here. This video was produced with the production cost of 29CM Thank you for watching