Well, you know what they say - there's Or is there? Hmmm... bringing you a list of the Top 7 Really Fast Cars with teeny tiny engines. And what better way to kick things This "triangle" with wing was the the magical 200mph mark, and it did it with the help of a 2.9? I used to drink more than that. to it than just that. two gigantic turbos on that pygmy of an engine, No other 2.9 in the world And the car knows it. but I think this is just the F40 It's like - are you sure? BWAAAAAAAAAAA isn't that too few to reach 200 miles purr? Modern supercars need over and they are bestowed with On the other hand, the F40 had an And still... it goes like a bat out of hell. Aerodynamics are for people And from the most expensive car on the list to the has the smallest engine too. OK, that doesn't sound like much, but it will still give the How is that even possible? you'll find in a Fiat 500. Instead of pistons, there's an oval chamber Weird thing, but it still goes through all four combustion cycles: What you do then is take two such rotors, slap a pair of turbos, and off you go! packed into something that's smaller and THAT! is what makes all the difference. which then helps acceleration as well Plus, because this rotary can you can bet that it can fit under the hood too. for that perfect 50/50 weight distribution. the Supra around the track. However, down a long straight, the The dorky-looking GM EV1. out of breath at around 162mph, car will push on, all the way to 184! 3-5-5 could go that fast. Lucid, Nevera kind of electric car. creation for a maximum output of just 136 horses. it's an honest amount. mention is its Lead-Acid battery with only ...which again, is a far cry from the 100 As you can imagine, the range was poor, sleeves to stretch it as far as possible. - Super-narrow, low-resistance tires - and most importantly, a super slippery body too. It's the lowest number of any That's why it can go so fast. hole in the air like the air isn't even there. Too bad that GM put an 80mph speed Shame. It would've been cool Eh, what can you do other than Mercedes C63 S e-Performance? this new four-pot hybrid Merc A 680hp punch to be exact. Or in In case you're keeping score, this is the Right behind the AMG One hypercar Needless to say - it is quick. Seriously quick! the assistance of an electric motor, Even without the hybrid, its 2-liter 4-cylinder In terms of horses per liter, That's... insane! It's expected to have an engine that's But why do the same in a four-door None. They did it because they can. And before you say - uh, my tuned Sure, but does it have a warranty? I thought so. Next up, it's the Jaguar XJ220 The party flyers said it will scissor doors, four-wheel drive, The production model, however, had... none of that. forced Jaguar to go with a and in the light of the recession, the That was supposed to make it more affordable, Out of 1,500 people who paid the deposits, But just because it didn't that doesn't mean that the XJ220 was ALL BAD. and you know how insane those things are. more power than that V12 prototype. but 212 was still a world record. and on top of that, the quickest The Jag was the ultimate hypercar, Just one year later, the McDaddy F1 Weeeeeeeell, shit! But hey, credit where credit is due: mighty impressive Speaking of six... car with a flat-six engine in the wrong place. been a problem for a VW Beetle, Let's just say that it had a tendency Naturally, adding a turbo to to the point that the car But after 50 years of sending and the sheer stubbornness not to move - the latest and the greatest, - 650hp 3.7-liter Or in other words - the Everything else that I mentioned so far of preparation to do their thing. Launching to 60 takes mere 2.7 seconds, Keep the foot planted and you'll hit 205mph. the way it refuses to crash. torque vectoring, and who knows what else, ... even on the roads as Out in the real world, racing from A to B, hypercars; Turbo S will get you there... the fastest! here are some honorable mentions. And at number one, it's another Jag. time they almost made a promised car... They were super serious about even made 5 fully functioning prototypes. and the car was abandoned quicker So... what did we almost get? to go head-to-head with the Holy Trinity. But while those had sizeable Jaguar was going to this war with a 1.6-liter 4-cylinder Mind you, that engine was and they know a thing or two about extracting A 1.6 in their F1 car makes over 1000 horses, a piece of cake for those guys. How!? you give it everything you've got. A supercharger? Why not? Let it spin, let it SPIN! And that's how you get 500 horses out of a 1.6. for a full-blown 900 and you'll have a car that: - produces less CO2 than the Prius further than the Volt. And what a shame. next one.