From cult favorites to local institutions, here is each state's favorite You can only get Milo's The Milo's original burger consists of a fresh-grilled patty, its famous secret sauce, Tommy's Burger Stop is that specializes in Cajun-influenced Its burgers are humongous Known for its large portions, you can depend on Filiberto's The favorite thing on the made of carne asada, pico de gallo, potatoes, and cheese. Slim Chickens is the go-to fast-food chain in Northwest Arkansas. It prides itself on its and there are 17 dipping You'll be hard-pressed who doesn't love In-N-Out. Its not-so-secret menu includes the Animal-Style burgers and fries. You can even get a burger The first Chipotle but it's multiplied to While burritos, bowls, and tacos are the bulk of its orders, Chipotle's secret menu includes quesadillas and loaded nachos. Duchess is a 14-restaurant chain found only in Connecticut. It has all-day breakfast platters, but the crown jewels are Capriotti's is known for its The signature is the Bobbie, which is basically Thanksgiving on a roll. People love Pollo Tropical for its juicy chicken Its chicken is marinated for hours and flame-grilled for the best flavor. Fast-food giant Chick-fil-A Since then, it's opened The waffle fries are the even beating out the People go to Zippy's for It serves both classic diner food and Hawaiian-style food, such as saimin and Chili Moco. Boise Fry Company has great burgers, but it's famous for its french fries. You can choose from six kinds of potatoes and five different cuts, not to mention the nine dipping sauces, which include blueberry Portillo's is known for topped with mustard, relish, onions, tomato, pickle, sport Whoo! But its best-kept secret which has a whole slice Steak 'n Shake gives with its breakfast, Customers love the Frisco Melt, the restaurant's version of a patty melt. Maid-Rite specializes in which are similar to sloppy But there's a secret spice Freddy's Frozen Custard and Steakburgers is known for its friendly service, retro vibe, and delicious steakburgers. It also serves some unforgettable frozen custard and sundaes. While the original recipe KFC has become a worldwide phenomenon. It's the world's second-largest restaurant chain, after McDonald's. While Popeyes was founded we're choosing Raising Cane's With roughly seven items on the menu, an emphasis is put on The Highroller Lobster Co. makes awesome lobster rolls and burgers. Another must-have is the Boardwalk Fries serves some Its fries are cooked multiple times, lightly salted, and served fresh. America runs on Dunkin', but Massachusetts is where it was birthed. Known for its fast service Dunkin' is a reliable place to get a quick bite Leo's Coney Island is a restaurant chain found specifically in Michigan. It's popular for the breakfast and Greek specialties like Dairy Queen is headquartered Its most well-known which has more than 20 Zaxby's has more than 900 It's known for its chicken finger plate, which includes chicken coleslaw, crinkle fries, Zax sauce, and a 22-ounce drink. Lion's Choice specializes mainly in the St. Louis area. These sandwiches are made of real top round beef The Pickle Barrel makes some of the best cheesesteaks and subs in Montana. They're made with fresh ingredients and are generously portioned. A runza is a classic Nebraskan food. It's basically a Hot Pocket with beef, cabbage, and onions that originated from Nebraska's German and Russian immigrant populations. Port of Subs is known for its fresh, sliced-as-you-order subs, ranging from 5 to 24 inches. Similar to Subway, it has an assembly-line Mr. Mac's specializes in mac 'n' cheese. It offers 21 flavors, including the Taco Mac and Pizza Mac. Jersey Mike's is known for its quick serve and fresh hoagies. One of its most popular sandwiches is the turkey and provolone. Blake's Lotaburger was The signature is the LOTA burger with green chili and cheese. It's said that the LOTA to popularizing green Shake Shack started as a hot-dog cart inside Madison Square As it grew into a park stand and then multi-restaurant to include burgers, fries, Even today, the Innovation Kitchen at the West Village location is trying out test items. The foundation of Bojangles is its fried chicken and biscuits. Other standouts are and the Bo-Berry Biscuit. Space Aliens Grill &amp; Bar is an outer-space-themed restaurant chain found in North Dakota and Minnesota. The fun decor is filled with neon lights, alien statues, and arcade games. Skyline Chili is known consisting of spaghetti, In fact, you can top most menu items with Cincinnati-style chili Sonic is headquartered in Oklahoma City. Its iconic drive-up layout makes ordering quick Popular menu items are the Burgerville is a restaurant chain popular in Oregon and Its burgers and milkshakes are staples, but it's the seasonal items Another fun fact is the for all its restaurants. Wawa isn't just a convenience store, but a way of life for Pennsylvanians. Hoagies, coffee, gas, breakfast, snacks; just name it, and you can get it at Wawa. Olneyville New York System is known for its hot The hot wieners are topped with yellow mustard, meat Waffle House is a Southern staple. Whether you're going in for an early breakfast you can find dependable 24-hour Giliberto's Mexican Taco Shop has two locations in South Dakota. It serves mouthwatering Mexican food, such as carne asada and carnitas tacos. Krystal is a Southern fast-food chain founded in Tennessee. It's known for its iconic sliders, similar to White Castle. But don't underestimate it's the most popular thing on the menu. Texans love Whataburger... a lot. Its patties are served making it bigger than Other standouts are the patty melt and Honey Butter Chicken Biscuit. Crown Burgers serves both but its claim to fame is the Crown Burger, a cheeseburger with lots of pastrami. Al's French Frys is a in South Burlington. It's been serving burgers and fries to Vermont locals since 1946. Biscuitville is a popular fast-food chain in Virginia and North Carolina. It specializes in Southern like biscuit sandwiches, grits, country ham, and hash browns. Dick's Drive-In is a that focuses on burgers, Its signature burger, the Dick's Deluxe, is simple, but delicious. Tudor's Biscuit World commonly found in West Virginia specializing in breakfast and biscuits. Culver's is a Wisconsin favorite. The must-haves are the And since it's Wisconsin, you've gotta try the fried cheese curds. Taco John's was founded Since then, its tacos have made it all over the Midwest and Popular menu items are the While they aren't technically states, here are the favorite from Washington, DC, and Puerto Rico. Ben's Chili Bowl is Regulars order the half-smoked smothered in homemade beef chili. El Meson Sandwiches is restaurant chain, with 37 locations. What foods do you think Let us know in the comments below.