Cheesecake is one of those desserts that are always on the counters of restaurants and pastry shops. Because they look so pretty, we believe that they are very difficult to prepare, but it is not at all clear that you can make them at home and that they turn out very creamy and delicious. What do you think? Come with me to see the recipe to start in this container I have 180g of pulverized cookies here they already sell them like this but if you only get the complete cookies, whether they are Marias or others, just place them in the food processor blender to make them powder or you can also put them inside a bag and beat them with a rolling pin but well now we are going to add 100g of melted butter here you may need less or a little more fat than I do depending on how much your cookies absorb so add little by little and check the consistency To do this, take a portion with your hands and if you see that it comes together well, that is to say that a type of dough is formed, it means that it is already perfect. You will also notice when it is ready because this mixture will look quite wet and while I do this I remind you that I am going to leave you the ingredients as always in the information box and at the end of the video okay now I will show you we will use a 20cm diameter mold that we must line with baking paper so that it is easier to unmold we are going to empty the mixture of cookies with butter and then with a spoon we are going to distribute very well so that there is a very flat base. You can finish doing this with your hands or help yourself like me with a step with a flat base and press until everything is very compact . It is true that this cookie base is one of the simplest and most delicious. You can also combine the cookies with walnuts or ground almonds, cinnamon and a little sugar if necessary. Finally, our base is ready, let's put it in the oven, which should already be at 175 degrees. centigrade we will bake for 10 to 15 minutes or to see it slightly golden on the edges and the surface when we take it out we must let it cool and reduce the temperature of our oven to 160 degrees centigrade and while the base cools we will prepare the filling for it here I have 480g of cream cheese We will add 170g of sugar that I am going to mix with 10g of vanilla sugar and 1/4 teaspoon of salt and yes you can use a little less sugar but for me with this amount the cheesecake will have a very good flavor and also if you do not have vanilla sugar you can Use only vanilla essence and I will tell you when to add it. For now, we are going to mix and incorporate everything very well. Preferably, use your manual balloon whisk as I do. You do not need to take out your electric mixer since it will not cost you any work. beating because the cream cheese must be at room temperature here, the softer the better, because that will make the procedure much easier for you. What follows is to incorporate 220g of sour cream, which as you can see is quite thick and this is due to the amount of fat it contains. Here it is also important that it is at room temperature. We will mix again and incorporate it very well. At the beginning you will notice that lumps form but don't worry, just keep mixing until the cream looks smooth as I show you in the video, once it looks perfect. We add 150g of whipping cream or whipping cream, which again must be at room temperature and we must mix just to incorporate it well to obtain a cream with a soft and smooth consistency. Here I tell you the reason why it is better to use only the whisk. of manual balloon is that this way we don't mix too much since when using the electric mixer a lot of air is introduced into the mixture and as a result the pie or cheesecake will break on the surface leaving a crack that you will not like. That being said, now we will add three eggs and a yolk starting with the first egg and We beat just to incorporate it very well. When that happens, we add the next one. We mix again and once it is well integrated, we add the last egg along with a yolk. While I mix, I take this opportunity to ask you what your family's favorite dessert is. Do you like this recipe ? If so, I invite you to subscribe to the channel because we have many other recipes that can help you. Also, this way you will know every time we are going to upload a new video. In short, the filling is almost ready. It is time to add 25g of cornstarch that we must sift so that It can be incorporated much better. We will continue mixing with our manual balloon whisk until we see no traces of cornstarch in the cream. As you can see, it is very easy. It is just a matter of mixing gently and it will be incorporated quickly. Finally, we are going to pour the juice of half a lemon, the equivalent. at 20ml we continue mixing a little more and this is where we must add the vanilla essence if it is the one we are going to use and we will need approximately two teaspoons but hey, it's that easy and we already have the creamy filling so we first go for a larger container that the mold into which we are going to pour the cream since this is going to be used to cook our cheesecake in a bain-marie. We place our mold inside with the cookie base already cold and well covered on the sides with aluminum foil so that the water does not pass through, we empty it. all our cream cheese and here I tell you that my mold has a height of 6.5cm, so the cream was just right. I recommend that you use a mold that is 8cm high so that there is a little more than 1cm left unfilled, we pass a toothpick around it to Remove any bubbles that may have formed and lightly tap the mold against the table. Later, we are going to pour hot water so that it covers approximately one centimeter to one and a half centimeters of our mold, as I show you in the video. Very carefully, we are going to put it in the oven, which in At this time it should already be at 160 degrees Celsius. We will bake our cheesecake for one hour to one hour and 15 minutes, even a little more depending on your oven. At this time you can open it to check if it is ready. You will notice when it is perfect because When you take it out it will still shake on the surface but only in the middle part along the edges it should be a little firmer, that means it's done, so we close our oven, turn it off and leave our cheesecake in there for one more hour. Let it cool slowly so that it is perfect. After that time you will notice that the water has already evaporated and the cheesecake will be more golden brown on the surface. Now what do you think, you have to leave it to finish cooling at room temperature and when it is cold, you can remove it from the mold where you cooked it in a bain-marie, cover it with aluminum foil or a lid and put it in the refrigerator for a minimum of 6 hours. It is much better if you leave it until the next day and well , I love this dessert with a strawberry sauce that It is very easy to prepare in a pan. We add 200g of strawberries cut into small cubes. We are going to add 60g of sugar and I also added a tablespoon or 10g more of vanilla sugar , but instead of the vanilla sugar, you already know that at this moment You can add a teaspoon of vanilla essence and also two tablespoons of lemon juice. We will cook for about 10 minutes at a medium- low to low temperature, mixing from time to time. After this time, the strawberries will look very soft and they will release some of their juices if you want. Let it thicken a little more, like me, you can mix half a tablespoon of cornstarch with a tablespoon of cold water. It is important to mix and mix very well so that lumps do not form in our strawberry sauce. Empty it immediately and add it very well after 1 to 2 minutes. You will see how the sauce thickens even more but we want to form a type of puree so we are going to mash the strawberry pieces so that they are much smaller. It is not necessary to blend, just mashing a little is enough. Lastly, we are going to add 150 to 200g more strawberries, cut only in half, mix so that they all have a little bit of the puree that we prepared , turn off our stove and let it cool before covering our cheesecake with them. It's that easy, we already have a very pretty decoration ready for our dessert , okay, when we take it out From the refrigerator I am going to place it on a plate so that I can easily unmold it, remove the aluminum foil and when it is cold , and as you can see the cheesecake does not have any cracks on the surface and it looks quite creamy. I will remove it. the baking paper and that's it, I'm going to remove only the base, I'm going to place it on another small plate, already ready, on the plate where I'm going to present it, I'm going to place the strawberry sauce on top, as you can see, it stays on the surface. Because of how thick it is and well, I tell you that you can also make the sauce with other fruits, even frozen ones , such as blueberries, raspberries, etc. And the moment arrived that I like the most. I really wanted to cut it. Look at how creamy and smooth it is. It combines perfectly with that strawberry sauce. It is a refreshing dessert to share with family or friends in this hot season but also on very cold days. It looks very good , you know that you can decorate it however you like, you can use caramel, chocolate, etc. In any case, I'm sure you'll love it, but hey, that's all. I hope this recipe helps you a lot.