The story at the heart of There are a lot of rumors around. It has got passions, it's got family, it's got feuding. It's got loves and loathing and tragedy, even murder. It's better to cry in Rolls-Royce than to be happy on a bicycle. That story is really the and yes, the sex factor Sometimes things happen in This was really success I didn't believe possible, Tom did not believe it was possible. The success was unbelievable. It is difficult to understate just how successful the Gucci brand has been in history, but also really is right now. We're looking at a brand value and that's underpinned by an extraordinary social media following. So you both got this business value and also you've got this That combination has really been the key to Gucci's success. There's been an unfairness to give a lot of credit to people who really didn't deserve all that credit. And instead people who had deserved credit were totally forgotten. Nobody has focused on the real story. Everybody has focused on the fairy tale. That's very good news for the viewers and maybe also for the media but it's not the reality. There is an epic saying family generations that the the second generation expands, and the third generation destroys. And that's almost what happened in the Gucci story. You've got the founder who had the vision for and selling them initially and other European travelers. And then you have his two who ended up having And especially Aldo and the expander, and he had a vision to take And then you have the third generation which is also where a lot because you had Aldo's three sons, Roberto, Georgio, and Paolo, and they had 50% together And then you have Maurizio a single child who inherited The Gucci story was really punctuated by the family conflicts and they were extremely litigious. So, all of these fights and became extremely public. One of the characters that and almost the most was Domenico De Sole who started as a lawyer to So, hi, Domenico. Hi. How are you? So what was it like working for Rodolfo and then dealing with Aldo and the family? because that point what was happening there was a big conflict in the family because Aldo's children probably felt that their dad had done which is true. Aldo was a pretty formidable person but they felt that they deserve So we had a lot of battle for a long time. But then the situation and there was no change in and Maurizio kept the 50%. And that was the situation but that created a lot of animosity, there where a lot of battle. He dreams every five minutes. He doesn't think, he dreams. And in his own life, he'd Today, we do $138 million of business with $18 million profit. This is the answer to a dream. I accept. So major turning point was 1983 Rodolfo is very ill and he dies, and he leaves his 50% stake in the company to his only son Maurizio. Maurizio is starting to get about how he wants to and take it up market, but he can't get his uncle They're very happy with all of that are very profitable for them. So as Maurizio is becoming of his vision for Gucci, and that he's the one who on the home front he's also Patrizia who had been pushing him to be the kind of Mr. Gucci and one of the leading But he's starting to and in 1985, he decides to leave her. We have this transformation. Mr. Jekyll became Dr. Hyde. The same time you had Paolo to the US tax authorities because he suspected his and putting them into offshore accounts. So, there was a case an investigation that ended I never forget. I remember we had a board and Maurizio asked me, and said, &quot;You have to explain what this means.&quot; And yes, I tried to explain this is the United On tax fraud is very One member of the board said to me, &quot;You are pessimistic.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, maybe. I don't know what you want me to say.&quot; Unfortunately, Aldo did go to jail and at that point, again, it's a big change in my life because I went from being the lawyer for the company and the family. He asked me to run Gucci America and with a specific goal The reputation was still Most importantly because Aldo, they're They open store in places like Japan in Hong Kong, in Asia, you know the really amazing early on they were in all these markets. But there was a problem, I think the product was really getting to be less attractive. They also expanded So there were a lot of events that occur that really the brand was deteriorating. There are many lessons about the balance between brand value and revenue growth because frankly it can be about the possibility of revenue growth, increased distribution, and of course, Gucci and challenges on losing in and out of their history. There have been times when they lost control of product quality in their drive for international success. What is it that makes the brand valuable? It will often be exclusivity. It'll be the control of that people can feel confident about what they're gonna what they're gonna get in service terms, and also the authenticity is part of what they're buying. And so therefore you need to make sure you are feeding that brand value or what it is that in the first place. So Maurizio had a problem because he had a clear vision for Gucci but he didn't have the money The answer to his problem who worked for Morgan Stanley at the time named Andrea Morante. I can remember very vividly that when I explained to the the Morgan Stanley room that I had met with Maurizio Gucci and that he wanted to do some form of shareholding restructuring, I'll never forget that for the first time when I was describing a transaction everybody was interested. And that's, if you will, the first time that I understood the power of a brand. So he launches this plan with Morgan Stanley to buy up the shares of Aldo and his cousins, and bring in an investment as his financial partner. 'Cause he didn't have enough money to just buy it all himself. As far as the complexity of purchasing the cousins and also the uncle, well, that complexity had one solution which you could call Because I spent a lot he gave me all the inside information of what everybody within the family, really what the agenda was. And in particular, he Paolo Gucci had been and given a significant vis-a-vis his brothers because Paolo had literally So what I did is I proposed to him to be paid a very similar amount of money as if he had not been I'll pay you the same price that your brothers are He accepted. So I actually went there and purchased this initial which actually changed the life of Gucci. [Interviewer] One person said Paolo has been a traitor to everyone. Yes. Maybe. Yes. Again, these bandits, I mean, if you leave them Once they saw that the game was over and there was somebody else coming to actually run the business, then gradually one by one, So what initially was turned into a reality. 50% of all the available shares were ultimately purchased by Investcorp, and at that stage, Investcorp So Maurizio emerges as because even though he with Investcorp, they gave His vision was to take and that meant quality products, beautiful workmanship. And he had a very classic idea of what he wanted Gucci to be. He used to say he wanted and soft to a woman's hand. He opened this fabulous no expense spared, priceless antiques, workmanship. So the debt started racking and at the same time he had cut out the most lucrative parts of the business. So, the Gucci accessories collection which was the cash cow for the company. Things were done in a I think that he incurred which the company could He decided we had to Okay, well, that's a great idea but what is the cost of it? So overnight he said, no more GG. So I said, &quot;Well, Maurizio, But he wanted to do it all costs so the company really went to tailspin and started really losing money, and was very, very difficult. Became very painful. So, the situation became They were not able to pay salaries. They were not able to pay suppliers. They were on the verge of having into court to say they And at that point, that means that the company So, Gucci is really teetering He had to right these things. I think that the problem There's some people have great vision but he had the greatest but if you execute he was beyond incapable of executing. That really was the bottom line. So Investcorp after to put his vision into place, they're becoming very, very and they are millions And they're deciding they don't because they think it's I told him that it was in order to keep and preserve the good relationship he to go to Investcorp and say let's choose a common new somebody who's really And so, when I told him that unfortunately the reaction because for him, I was telling that he was not capable And I felt the responsibility in his own interest but sometimes your own interest is perceived in a different way. He is begging them for time. His assessment is that the turnaround needs a little more time for the customers to really get the feeling And at one point he's begging them, &quot;If you just give me six months,&quot; he says, &quot;the Japanese market is there's a new Gucci and the wind will be back in our sales.&quot; Well, he never got that chance. Investcorp created a war room. They went after him with and finally they were and they bought his 50% in and then took it over entirely. The irony of this story was that actually Maurizio was right. Six months after he was the Japanese woke up to the new Gucci and started buying Gucci bags, and the company started making money, hand over fist in a very quick time. In March of 1995, one Maurizio is walking into the a gunman comes into the doorway behind him and shoots him dead in cold blood. The murder of Maurizio Gucci was a shocking event for the city and in addition to being shocking, it was very sinister because The prosecutor who was was looking into his business deals, he was looking into the family conflicts. He interviewed the cousins, but he didn't really see And the case was just cold after two years until because of a tipster one day, one morning at 5:30 in the morning the police raid Patrizia's and arrest her for Maurizio's murder. She had an obsession. She wanted her husband dead and she spoke about it to everyone. Often people are remembered and the glamor and maybe the interest has more to do with the homicide. A wife appoints a killer, a hitman and perhaps there is a risk that Maurizio will indeed who was killed by his or for very good reasons But I think that Maurizio's real legacy is that the Gucci brand by three generations. As often as the case in after the third generation, the family is not able to In this case, Maurizio not only but he also lost his life. In the early stages of many luxury brands, the founder, the visionary, they came almost to the and they needed somebody in a different direction I think you could also that's a hundred years old, over time, a brand like that and fresh eyes. So even though Maurizio wasn't ultimately successful in putting his vision in place, he had actually done a lot of the work to set Gucci up for it's next phase. He hired an American retail who was the president of and one of her main contributions After Maurizio left, they started giving me more and I became the Chief Operating Officer of the company very quickly. And at that point, I really, de facto, I was running a company, they basically asked me who I thought to be the Creative Director, and I felt very strongly to be Tom. I remember very vividly, and Tom was very, very young. We had a meeting and I said Tom, I think we can really fix this company. So, I said look, I'm not interested in I don't pretend to be a so you're in charge, you know, you do it, and let's see where we go here. He accepted and that's really He bought back the logo, and make it chic. He makes clothes that rock the world, and he put sex back where it belongs. Here's Tom Ford for Gucci. Thank you. I'd like to thank Vogue. Tom, you're the greatest! Thank You! Thank you. It's difficult to understate the impact of Tom Ford on Gucci. No, it's not just about fashion, has purchased 5% of the company. it's also about real life. With his extraordinary style, innovation, and actually his sense of control, this is one of the really There has to be a vision, and it has to be a very direct vision. Tom Ford has a very, very clear, and strong idea about what Gucci could be, in terms of global ambition. He made sure that his vision was totally controlled right From the advertising, every product detail, and so on. Ford's design power hit the fashion world like a tidal wave. The winner is, And the winner is Tom Ford. Thank you, thanks. So, the &quot;Tom-Dom&quot; era of Gucci really was extraordinarily exciting, and it was clear from the actually, that Tom designed in Florence, that something had changed at Gucci, and there was a new Gucci in the air. And sales took off immediately, and even though they more sexy styles on the runway, they were still selling primarily but they really had lit and the sales are doubling. So the sales went through the roof. In 1995, our sales doubled. The success was just unbelievable. Suddenly, really things looked up, and then at that point as fast as possible. So, the Gucci IPO was very anticipated, but, what they realized was that, there was no fashion sector so they actually had to train analysts in how the luxury market worked, and so, Domenico's being given They are bringing analysts into the room, and talking about how the industry works. They really pioneered the luxury sector in the financial market. And other brands subsequently followed. But, it was really the Gucci The old Gucci name sure is attracting a lot of customers these The IPO of Gucci was even more successful than their wildest dreams. They debuted at 22 dollars, and shot immediately up to 26 dollars. The offering was 14 times over subscribed, and ended up making more for Investcorp. Sales were up 113%, so we were delighted, it was the fifth quarter in a row with which we double our sale. It proved to be a success story, certainly from a financial But also a huge success Once it was clear that the luxury markets was there to be developed, and was there to be taken advantage of, all the players who were had the competitive advantage of having seen it from within. The risk was that somebody and given this massive success. And it doesn't matter we're a public company. There is always moment, in In 1997, Gucci was a high performance machine, but a financial crisis and the rest of the luxury Japan was the dominant force in the luxury market at the time. So, when there was this crisis in Asia, the stock went down. And I think at that point was LVMH started purchasing shares of the company. That really was my concern of it being open to a takeover. So, the real sort of rival on the market for Gucci was who was kind of known in the European luxury scene. He had taken over Louis and had other fashion brands, he had Dior. We tried to build a large business with our partners with one and the most elitist product, in every line that we are I got a call from Yves Carcelle, who is the CEO of Louis Vuitton, and he called me, told me that LVMH And at that time if you under the rule of the you had to go public with it. So, that was really the with LVMH. And didn't he say something about how it was a friendly acquisition? Yeah, he say it was very very friendly. He say, well you know has a hell of a reputation, so I'm not sure how Now were gonna mix a little From January through battle for control of the House of Gucci. So, once Arnault had thrown down the gauntlet for Gucci, that he was in for a big fight, and he pulled in bankers and advisors, and decided to stage a resistance, and his main concern was to be able to take over without offering a full and They are our number one competitor. We compete against them for customers. We compete for talented people. This is a case of creeping control. They would like to control the company without paying the full price. The contest between these two companies was getting more and more acrimonious, and with the help of his advisors, De Sole put protection through the issuing of employee shares, and that kept on diluting Arnault's stake, as he's building up his But at at certain point, De Sole realizes, that they aren't going to be able to fend off Arnault forever. So, kind of in the ninth who runs PPR, which was comes in and offers to and becomes the white knight Francois was the most decisive man in the history of the universe. I talked to him for half an hour, I told my story and I explained why we wanted to defend against Arnault. De Sole drove a hard bargain, securing 3 billion for It was the very deal So Francois Pinault does not only want to be the white knight, and so, he turns Yves Saint over to Tom and Dom, and he says, I want you, kind of, the to buy up other brands, and turn Gucci into a multi brand group, that can rival Arnault and LVMH. That was pretty brutal because, we were under pressure to do it, okay. So it was just a lot of work. There were a lot of potential targets, and every time we tried to buy something, all of a sudden, LVMH would show up. It was not an easy thing to do, so everything had to be It was a huge amount of pressure, because it was on one and on the other end and we acquired a lot To not only turn around Gucci, or keep the Gucci turn around going, but to also then identify other talent, other brands, make them successful, I mean, it became a huge endeavor. They were both working 24/7. Tom was designing both Gucci and at the same time, they and then nurture these other designers. I was looking for major investment, and then Gucci got in touch They bought Alexander McQueen. They bought Stella McCartney. They bought Balenciaga. Each brand was slightly different, you know, some were young sort of, the help to grow and to mature. Others were faded names that So they had a lot of children that they were trying to There was the agreement that we would run the company independently for 5 years, create this multi brand company, this large group of companies, and then he would buy 100% of the share, at the price that had been set forth, at the time of the battle with LVMH. So, five years after the buys the full 100% of Gucci, and, you know, Tom and where they are essentially running this publicly traded company as Until a time comes where and it's time to renegotiate the contracts for Tom and Domenico, and, they realized that have the freedom to run and Tom and Dom announced that they were resigning from Gucci. Which is kind of a shock to So at the end, Tom was and I worked with him was just like my younger brother, so at the end, we felt, and I felt, that we had done our part, and it was time to move on with life. The partnership between Tom and Domenico really became foundational. Not only for the Gucci business, but for other luxury houses, that were starting to replicate the synergy between the It became seen as kind of that you needed in that period to run a successful luxury brand. Gucci is my legacy, so I love the company, and I'm super happy about Gucci. Some people ask me this question, a lot. No, I always wanted Gucci to do well. You know, I think it would if Gucci didn't do well The genius, in many ways, of Gucci, is how it's been able to reinvent itself, and also frankly, reinvent If we think about how Gucci sex sells and that was a fundamentally Now we've seen Gucci The last few years have been Now why is that? Well, actually, they've expressed sex in a rather different way. A gender blending sex, a that has really really and consumers under the age of 35, and that has been both very unusual, it's been very challenging but, of course, Gucci have and runway success.