Hello everyone it's Bescape, and welcome It's been almost four years since EZScape today, I'll be covering even longer speedruns thousands of hours of playtime. The longer speedruns in this video are based be in for a treat by the time we get to number I don't want to spoil anything, so let's enjoy. First up is a True 100% run of Perfect Dark. On the Xbox Live arcade version of the game, and 4 minutes by Endeavorgaming, and in this game on the Perfect Agent difficulty, unlock The XBLA version is faster than N64, but this segment would take. The greatest portion of a True 100% run would which takes 300 hours and this is because requirement towards Perfect rank. In order to achieve this rank during that kills, use 450,000 rounds of ammo, win 900 more. It's reasonable that if you were to play single requirement before the time-gated requirement. Another large portion of the run would be and then completing them again in 2, 3, and of this. The current World Record for All Single Player by Big Bossman. We can just assume it would take a player so if you multiply Big Bossman's time by section; however this can all be done in 0 Combat Simulator challenges. The rest of the run then requires a player training challenges, but this would only take So if we add up everything in total, this Before we continue, I'd like to announce once Feeding America to help support covid relief. For every $1,500 we raise, we will be creating second channel. The two new incentives that I am announcing and Softlock percent from the Gen 1 Pokemon If each and every one of you donated just goal. There will be a donation link in the description Thank you. This second entry is going to be a quick refresher, This speedrun isn't quite theoretical since still the longest completed speedrun of all-time, To clarify once again, the reason this speedrun Shampoo, which takes 2 weeks, or 336 hours for this run to be beaten in any less time The reason why this speedrun takes even longer, so you want to have quick menuing throughout In addition, the game's final bosses need minimum of 338 hours. Baffan currently has the World Record with What's more interesting about this speedrun, banned for 24 hours due to "non-gaming content," he slept. In 2016, Twitch had different policies towards categories at the time. Baffan did a new run attempt in September but as long as he put "Not Playing" on no issues. Next up is the All Achievements run of Europa 600 hours. What's interesting about this game is that cannot be sure that each achievement will It starts on November 11th, 1444, incrementing 1821. Your game will just end here no matter how a lot of resets during some of the harder The gameplay consists of taking control of and all diplomatic actions. From there on, the future of your nation is At first glance, this game looks incredibly A runner of the game, MiklMaar, shared with hours before he managed to do his first world Paradox Studios have ranked the achievements but this is ranked purely by difficulty, not There's a total of 310, which means each but of course, some are significantly longer Some of the lengthy ones include The Three world by starting as the nation of Ryukyu. The achievement One Faith! requires you to world be of your religion, and The Great Khan, Horde, and own the Chinese, Russian, and Persian These alone can take anywhere from 15-20 hours As for the hardest achievements in a speedrun Heir of Timur, since they have very strict to find the perfect balance of optimized and Also if you were to do an All Achievement means that you can't use console commands will overwrite your current save every three So you can't save before a war and just So for those up to the challenge, MiklMaar link it in the description. Even if you have 0 interest in running the it to see the sheer amount of routing and Next up is a 100% run of Harvest Moon: Friends at least 610 hours long. 50 of these hours would actually be spent A Wonderful Life. In this game, there are 49 tasks to do such certain amount of money and so on. For each of these 49 tasks, you have to connect with the Gameboy Advance to Gamecube link Friends of Mineral Town. If you connect 49 times after meeting the will give you a Seaside Cottage, which is Another 40 hours would be spent catching all the recipes and Power Berries, unlocking the The remaining 520 hours is to earn 100 million the Town House. Based on calculations, the best way to earn races, which are held on the 18th of Spring When betting on them, you'll spend around to buy broaches. They sell for 2k each, and on average, this year. So to unlock the Town House, 736 years of If you run the game on WiiU VC, which provides take about 18 minutes real time to complete, as possible, you will need to sleep in-game This means that about 236 hours are spent spent sleeping. Imagine finally retiring in a Town House at This list wouldn't be complete if there so up next is a 100% run of Animal Crossing: The first hurdle in this run would be to pay present in version 1.0 of the Japanese release The current standing World Record for this is inconsistent and can vary wildly. The next part of the run would be to complete every single fish, bug, fossil, and Crazy Like other Animal Crossing games, the fish and weather, so on average, it's said that also accounts for the purely RNG fish, bugs, The next achievement would be All Shop upgrades, This requires a runner to pay off the first items from the shop, letting 10 days pass, 10 days pass, spending 50,000 bells and letting bells and letting 30 days pass. After this you would need to pass Gracie's an outfit based on a theme -- a total of four In addition to this, upgrading the Able Sisters' Roost Cafe would likely take around 2-3 hours. The next achievement would be to obtain All On the Gamecube version of Animal Crossing, to effectively obtain all the items. This isn't an option in New Leaf, which Nook shop upgrade, giving them access to the A runner would then have to constantly time items they haven't yet obtained are available. Since most categories disallow multiplayer, flat out brute-force it. It's thought that All Furniture could take So far, we're at about a minimum of 95 hours add on a minimum of 500 hours, because of All Gold Badges would be the final challenge a blistering pace, all gold badges could be For all my Desert Bus fans out there, we have a player roughly 792 hours to complete. According to a TASVideos post back in 2009, 99, and you get one point by driving a bus in real time at a maximum speed of 45 mph. Once this is completed, a player will get another point, and this decision must be made Each trip takes about 8 hours, and it's something else and have the game end properly. If the bus veers off the road it will stall time. There is also no pausing whatsoever, so you're means that it would be impossible for a single would be required to stay up for 792 hours To put this in perspective, the World Record of drugs is 264.4 hours held by Randy Gardner, Imagine he played this game back then, he Also, the online charity gaming marathon called the game based on the amount of donations Their most recent event held in 2019 raised volunteers bussed for 162 hours. Next up is Monster Hunter Freedom Unite, which Freedom 2, and has more missions, equipment, A 100% run of the game is completing all quests, all max level armor and weapons. The speedrunning community for this game has take roughly 200 hours, but for everything 700 hours, so at least 900 in total. Most quests in the game can be completed anywhere in the run would be spent farming for better RNG. With the high level weapons and armor, the be as low as a 2% chance to acquire. There are also gathering quests that are solely the 200 hour benchmark for questing seems As for weapons specifically, upgrading them If we take specifically bows for example, If you upgrade it 7 times, you get the Jungle out of the wild bow series. This process is required for tons of other and hammers to name a few. The highest level armour in the game is G-level, and Gunner, which basically means Melee and The highest rarity is tier ten, and just like Awards take a fair bit of time, and on paper, to grind, since it requires you to complete Collecting Monster Crowns, which are given size of a specific monster would theoretically spawns at is RNG. You can collect these throughout the speedrun, grind ahead of you. As for titles, there are over 400 to unlock, of specific creatures, to earning 1,000,000 To put everything into perspective, there a player showing off their 100% Guild Card. In the first few seconds of the video, we 1,200 hours. So in a segmented speedrun, this run could Next up is an All Messages run from Super There are 60 messages in the game which range But by far, the absolute chad message to unlock I'm not kidding, this is hard-coded in the The quickest way to complete a single VS. Falco and side-B-ing into the death plane The way to make this process even faster is rule, which is done by unlocking all stages If you choose just Flat Zone to be played you'll skip the stage selection screen and matches. At best, a single VS. mode match takes roughly take roughly 1,700 hours. As for the other 59 messages in the game, but nowhere near the VS. mode one. NCB1221 was the first person to complete an re-routed the category and the new estimation You'll essentially unlock every other message All Trophies run simultaneously, therefore of 1,724. Now this is where time estimated can start This is a game called Anti-Idle, and the run all 666 achievements, and get S rank in every The core gameplay is a hub-game with 3 currencies based around popular game tropes that reward Here we have the button machine and all you It rewards regular coins, which can be used the Fishing minigame. Or there's the Stadium, where you compete blue coins, which are used to purchase upgrades You can ascend when you hit over Level 9000 unlocked when you start prestiging with the The real difficulty in the run would undoubtedly Some S ranks require physical challenge, and Minesweeper clone and pong. Others require immense amounts of time in for example, defeating each of the 500 monsters 2000 bestiary and taming each of those monsters A full completion would also ascend 1000 times. TiKevin83 worked with some core Anti-Idle tasks would take a minimum 1,100 hours, and that the various other requirements could the total time of this speedrun to at least For an even harder challenge, the bestiary closer to 10,000 hours of play, and a player played for more than a year to grind out this For this next entry, I'm nowhere near qualified The next speedrun on this list is obtaining in Old School Runescape. In late 2018 I completed my 7,000 hour journey For those unfamiliar, a max cape is earned put this in perspective, a player could do on a normal, unrestricted account. There's a few ways to restrict and challenge to play as an ironman. A regular Ironman is not allowed to trade can't use the banks in the game. The challenge of this game mode is to progress provided in your inventory whereas a bank However there are some ways around this, such bosses for additional storage. With this disadvantage, a majority of the from how they're usually trained. Just to put one skill in perspective, let's to achieve Level 99 in. A normal account could achieve Level 99 Herblore enough gold to fund the skill before-hand. But in this-game mode, you're basically your funeral bed. Since you're not able to buy necessary herbs them all yourself, with limited space. It's almost impossible to calculate how of it can be passively trained through farming, the skill until they're very close to maxing. Earlier this year, one of the Jagex moderators to achieve max total in every game mode on current records. The fastest ever unrestricted account to max play time, while the fastest ever Ultimate under the 5,000 hour mark, which is a record Even though this challenge has been completed, been a person who has obtained a max cape way possible. Since the game is constantly evolving, the a while, it was thought that the absolute around 4,100 hours, but thanks to a few new over time, the total time might be less than Just to put everything in perspective once 13 of 2014, nearly 6 years ago, and there account. Thank you Settled, and before we talk about to give out an honorable mention. The honorable mention for today's video 4. A run such as this had never been attempted, it on April 7th of this year. This speedrun involves completing every license B-Spec, a mode where the player coaches an behalf. If you want to 100% the game without having your B-Spec driver in an overpowered car and This is useful since there are 3 24 hour races So you can either do it on your own and pause I would see most players doing. So with a group of four people to tag in and at the wheel for many hours at a time, and AT THE WHEEL. There's actually a Pastebin FAQ that the for doing this, which states: "We're dumb, has ever completed this category before--let well be the first, and we're all racing love, right? This game was all over the Speedrun sub-reddit, interesting speedruns. This speedrun clocked in at a time of 230 I'd like to congratulate the runners, Tyler, The final entry for today is a True 100% run Forbidden Memories. In a standard 100% run, a runner must obtain There was actually a new 100% World Record hours and 34 minutes. So the question is, how come the other 33 To start off, there are two cards that are of the game; Dark Magic Ritual, and Magician However if you play on the Japanese version you can obtain these two cards. Yet again, another weird version difference Now as for the other 31 cards, it would be cheating. Most of these cards require 999,999 starchips special exceptions. A good example would be the card Chakra. This card itself is unobtainable, but you summon it, so therefore Chakra technically just not directly purchasable. The other two cards are Javelin Beetle, and Javelin Beetle can be ritual summoned, and fusing Harpy Lady, another max starchip card. Technically you can buy Harpie Lady Sisters keep track of this card if it's fusion summoned, Therefore, a total of 28 cards would need in a True 100% run. The fastest way to obtain this many starchips each duel awarding 5 starchips. If we do some quick math, this means that purchase ONE CARD. On average, one duel takes around 1 minute take around 3,333 hours. But let's say we break the rules of the duplication and trading. You would be able to effectively purchase If this is done, a True 100% run with trading But let's say we go balls to the wall and Let's take 3,333 hours and multiply that Also let's add in the time of 72 hours for of 93,396 hours. This would take a player 3,891.5 days...segmented Let's say you want to spend the rest of and you dedicate 8 hours of your life everyday Since there are 24 hours in a day, the RTA If a person did this, it would take them a I'll see you guys when I'm 55 years old. Alright this marks the end of the video and helps us reach recommended. With an ambitious project like this, I want me with information for each of these games, I imagine that there are even more theoretical you know of any, leave them down in the comments This list wasn't limited to the ones featured, 2 if you guys would like to see it. If you're enjoying the content EZScape and speedrunning related content. That's it from me today, thank you all for day.