What do you think about when you Is it the taste? The vibe of the cafe, perhaps? Or maybe the price? Well, the answer is that, it depends. And recognizing that very notion is what makes Indonesian coffee chain Kopi Kenangan Starbucks and other global coffee chains where a cup of latte in Jakarta, For Kopi Kenangan, we prioritize going hyperlocal. I realized that people have different If I go to Vietnam, I don't like the coffee, it's too strong for me. If a Vietnamese drinks Indonesian coffee, they'll be like, oh, it's too mild for me, right? There's no right or wrong. And this is where we really shape our Which is why this cup of Kopi may taste a little different in Indonesia. What started as a local coffee stall in 2017 with over 850 locations It's backed by the likes of Serena Williams, There are three numbers to watch out for in $15,000 - the amount Edward says they initially invested into opening the company's first location. $8 million - Kopi Kenangan's first outside investment by venture capital firm Alpha JWC Ventures. And $106 million - the amount This is Founder Effect. Globally, the company sells about On average, that's about two cups per second. So, how did they do it? We're here at the company's Singapore This is Edward Tirtanata. I didn't really study much when I was a kid. But whenever there is an opportunity to I always get excited and always some of these little side gigs that I did trading Pokemon cards, I think back then it was very popular. And I did a lot of buying and selling. Buy low, sell high, right? It's a concept that I learned by doing. It is not about the money, It is something that really excites me until today. Edward attended Northeastern where he studied finance and accounting. But things didn't go according to plan. Growing up in Jakarta, especially I always get exposed to a lot of He tried so many different things During my freshman year in college, I had one fateful call from my mother, telling me that your dad is going through I think you need to come home quickly and help. And that is why I decided to really I was able to squeeze everything in three years. And when I'm back in Jakarta, I went Despite witnessing the Edward forged ahead with his own business ideas. Before I started Kopi Kenangan, I started this Ironically, I thought, oh, there are a lot of cafes, but most of them only sell coffee. Why don't I start a cafe that is selling tea? But I realized that doing my the store is nowhere near profitable. And that's when I realized One day in 2017, Edward and his were having a conversation in his tea shop, We realized that a lot of Indonesians cannot purchase a $3-4 cup of tea or coffee. If every cup of coffee costs you $4, that is exactly one-third of minimum wage. Just as flavor profiles can vary across This can be best explained through something which compares and maps out the price of a Starbucks This makes it easy to spot where a Starbucks latte So, while a Starbucks latte of the median daily income of the that same latte would cost approximately And that is when we realized that instead of having a we want to create a grab-and-go coffee company. Instead of focusing on the sofa or fast Wi-Fi, we're gonna focus on a good, high-quality cup of coffee. That's how we started Kopi Kenangan together. Shortly after that chance conversation out of a little We believe that the key recipe of And I realized that nobody I asked James, what is the most Oh, my ex-girlfriend. And that is why our first menu is which directly translates into, And that went really viral. A lot of people were saying, oh, this coffee It was sweet in the beginning and bitter at the end. That really creates that organic virality. We did not invest a single dollar for influencers, Together, they invested $15,000 into opening The experience of opening our first store was very hectic. We only raised like $15,000 from And we went over budget, unfortunately. Thankfully, the contractor was kind enough Little did we know, that from the first month's profit alone, we were able to pay And we were able to make After successfully opening his first store, Edward and James quickly re-invested their profits They went on to experiment with For my real estate strategy, I would Therefore, I intentionally chose my second outlet to be It was only 500 meters away. And to our surprise, We found out that we can open and there is no cannibalization at all. And the second thing that we tested is, So that is why I believe that out of like the first 15 stores, at least half is next to Starbucks. And we actually took a lot of their market the taste is more localized, So a lot of people back then, actually buy our coffee In 2019, Kopi Kenangan received its from venture capital firm Alpha JWC Ventures. Two years in, Edward had grown the business to 20 locations. By 2019, the business had grown to more than 200 locations. And by 2022, as economies Edward and his co-founder had nearly quadrupled Back then, I got a lot of pressure and then maybe close the store temporarily. But I believe that the key for us getting out of Covid, is not to close our stores, but to open more, During the pandemic, Edward and his team invested heavily into building out their technology to help scale the business. And rather than being conservative, Edward chose to take advantage of the We used data to open stores near the customers. We even made the investment to go inside the mall, because we know that this is the So we made that investment. And that's why Kopi Kenangan achieved unicorn By April 2024, the business had raised over $230 million in capital from investors across the globe. Despite the business's success, it didn't Entrepreneurship, for me is a constant I think it never gets easier, it only gets harder. The only things that improve are yourself and your team. You got better at handling struggle. If you think about it, right, I have never led a company It all started with a very simple, where our biggest issue back then was We needed to use my Toyota Innova to or go to Bandung to buy coffee beans. So I try to learn every day how to become a better CEO, how can and an even bigger size in the future? This is something that you need to do as an entrepreneur. It only gets more complicated as a business grows bigger. And I'm sure that it applies not just to Kopi Kenangan, but to businesses globally as well. I think the best advice that I can give to The next Starbucks is not going to look like a Starbucks. The next McDonald's isn't going to look like a McDonald's. The next Google is not going to look like Google today. So you need to be radically different in order And now, I'm very excited I believe that it's just the beginning of our journey. We are still very, very far from meeting And hopefully we will be able to meet Edward hopes to expand Kopi Kenangan and dreams of listing the In order to achieve that 3,000 number, we need to put a very strong emphasis Our Indonesian business is highly profitable. But our international business is But we believe that to meet our we need to make that investment today.