- I know what trending is better I've been trending my whole life. From the day I was born, I like the good publicity It all plays. It all plays. - Who is Donald Trump? A while back, I realized that for all the attention Trump gets, I actually didn't know much to become one of the most and what his life and career can teach us about what he really wants. I didn't know any of that. So I delved in to try to better understand how he rose to power and, most importantly, why with his name and face on them. (upbeat music) - [Larry] It is not a toupee, okay. - Okay? - [Larry] Alright. - Will you please inform the public? - So join me as we explore - [Narrator] Rich, ruthless, and famous, known for the buildings he's built and the wives he's divorced. (upbeat music) - He played Monopoly. But more than Monopoly, he always with building blocks. - [Johnny] Donald Trump was a river away from the He was a middle child of five kids, the son of an immigrant who ran the Trump home and who was known for her But in Trump's telling, his father was his greatest influence. - My father built low and in Brooklyn and Queens. - His dad made a big of post-World War II government programs that funded affordable housing complexes during New York's rapid growth. By all accounts, Fred Trump saying that he was quote, &quot;Squeeze nine days of work into a seven day work week.&quot; Growing up, young Donald was But even still, his hardworking father forced him to have a to teach him hard work. Though apparently when it rained, his dad would drive him in his Cadillac. Okay. Fred Trump focused on teaching his son the ways of the real estate business, taking young Donald to construction sites from a very young age. He instilled in his son to win at anything you He would tell Donald that he and that he must become a He was tough on Donald because At school, Donald Trump was, His music teacher, who died quote, &quot;There are certain children who need attention all of the time. He was one of those.&quot; And even punching that apparently giving him a &quot;I didn't think he knew I mean, he was like in elementary school. But it does show you that starts to shape up from a young age. Trump says in his book that he because, for some reason, quote, I liked to test people. It wasn't malicious. It was just aggressive.&quot; You can read a lot more about this in his book, &quot;The Art of the Deal,&quot; where he talks a little as well as this really &quot;Trump Revealed.&quot; I pulled a lot from these Anyway. - One of the great choices I was the choice of going to - [Johnny] Trump's father, Fred, obsessed with hard work and discipline, sent Donald to military boarding school to live full time when And this is where Donald - It was a good education. It was a good training. It was a good training, I enjoyed it. - From my reading, this military It was a place where, quote, &quot;Physical brutality and verbal abuse were tolerated and encouraged both in hazing new students and physical disciplining from teachers.&quot; Trump actually thrived on this It helped fire up his competitive nature. And soon, he would be getting good grades and winning medals for things or the shiniest shoes, all while going around quote, &quot;I'm going to be famous someday.&quot; And this is where I wanna of some of Donald Trump's core beliefs that start to become This is stuff we'll see and I wanna make a list. First and foremost, the guy You see this all over his childhood and the rest of his life. - I was a great baseball player. - What position? - [Donald] First base, - Trump was super into baseball. His baseball coach recounts that, quote, &quot;Donald always had to be He would do anything to win. And he wanted people to So teenage Donald Trump thriving at military academy, eventually rising to the rank of captain over the rest of the cadets, and then spending summers back in Queens working with his dad, learning the ways of the Both of these experiences and lay the foundation and what he will do in his future. That future continues when - I went to an Ivy League school. I'm very highly educated. I know words, I have the best words. - Trump gets into college exactly what direction he's gonna take. He considers going to film school in LA to become a filmmaker. - My other fantasy as I I wanted to be a movie maker. - Man, what an alternative Donald Trump the, like, - Down the hall and to the left. - Thanks. - I like keeping a low profile. (audience laughing) - (sighs) If only. But ultimately, he decided He studies economics and business. And this is like during the '70s. There's a war going on in Vietnam. Young men are being recruited. But Trump qualifies for meaning he gets out of the draft, four times, because he's going to college. Once he got out of school, he would've been eligible for the draft, but he qualified once again for a deferral because of a problem with his heel bone. Though there is some because the doctors who wrote Trump's deferral recommendation both lived and/or worked in Donald Trump's dad. And there's some speculation he actually did have a heel spur or whether or not these doctors were doing Donald Trump's dad a favor by making it so his son Either way, he didn't go to for his dad's thriving building lower and middle in Brooklyn and Queens. And then there's this moment in 1964 that shows us another important We'll make it the second There was this huge bridge in New York that had just been completed. It was a massive feat of engineering. It connected Brooklyn to like Fred Trump was invited to the opening ceremony of this bridge, and he invited his son Donald sat there in the crowd and noticed that during the the guy who actually designed but he was just off in the corner. Quote, &quot;No one even mentioned He goes on to say, quote, that if you let people you'll be made a fool. I don't want to be made anybody's sucker.&quot; - They just took us like, you - This is a huge one, it's not just about winning, it's that you must fight for recognition, that if you're not the center Recognition and attention from a very young age, - I'm an artist. In a certain sense, I'm an artist. I built the greatest - [Johnny] Okay, so Trump and he starts really learning the ways. - And I started off making little deals in Brooklyn and Queens with my father, and they seem to workout. - He's only in his 20s, into some big issues that would redirect At this point, we're in like the 1970s. The Civil Rights Act had just passed, which made it illegal to based on their race. And to enforce this, the US government, the Justice Department, around to different apartment complexes to make sure that landlords on who they rented to. This was a routine thing and it eventually happened The DOJ would send in a to apply for an apartment. And they quickly started to see a pattern, where Black or Hispanic that there was no available And then right after, the DOJ looking for the same type that suddenly there was room Department of Justice officials did this over and over, and of systematic racial discrimination. And on one day in 1973, Trump and his dad are The United States of Donald Trump, and Trump Management Inc. The DOJ is hitting him with this lawsuit over allegedly based on race or color. They found that managers would mark rental applications But yeah, these are one of and this may be the C that here in the remarks section. I don't actually know, But in one testimony, a said that he was directed that the rent was twice as And then when they asked the super why they denied certain applicants, the super replied that he was, quote, &quot;Doing what my boss told me to do. I'm not allowed to rent The DOJ found that this was widespread, happening all over in Trump's This lawsuit was a pretty huge deal. It was one of the largest fair Here's the New York Times front page the day after this came out. Major Landlords Accused 27-year-old Donald Trump was furious. But instead of admitting and settling with the DOJ, he fought back. And this is where we get to which is a pattern we'll start to see, which is that when Donald Trump his response is often to fight, to fight no matter what. - I think people see me as a fighter. I think people have always They know that I don't take - The Trump's responded by counter-suing the Department of Justice for a hundred million dollars, claiming that they made false statements. Now, the judge dismissed saying that there was no basis for it. But even still, the Trump's fought on. During this time, Trump said that, quote, &quot;I'd rather fight than fold, because as soon as you fold once, you get the reputation of being a folder.&quot; So he kept fighting for years even though there wasn't And finally, he was forced to fold. But watch how he does it. Watch what he prioritizes. He strikes a deal with the DOJ that allows him to admit no wrongdoing but that would require him like emphasizing that are open to people of all races, taking out ads in the paper actually do welcome Black renters. But he didn't have to admit any guilt, and that is a point of pride for him. - We settled the suit with zero, with no admission of guilt. It was very easy to do. - Fighting no matter what means never admitting you're wrong, regardless of the circumstances, never apologizing, never folding. It's something that all humans do. They evade responsibility. But Trump has kind of It's a pattern that But anyway, a bigger is that this whole lawsuit really turned Donald Trump He didn't like this and lower income tenants. It was causing too much trouble for him. Remember, he grew up in a with a reputation and connections. He had a taste for prestige, and luxury, and wealth, and attention. And none of that was out here in Queens. So in his early 30s, he across the river, toward prestige, excess, and attention, the high life of New York City. (rhythmic music) And it wouldn't be long before And this is where we need And for that, I'm going to sit over here. You've heard me talk about NordVPN. I'm a big fan. When I'm on the road, I that I have access to this tool. I connect to NordVPN with and it connects me to the so I can access all of my accounts, so I can watch all of my It's not just a way to it's also an entire suite of tools that allow you to be more safe to live in a world where there are scams, and phishing, and malicious links, and annoying ads all over When you're connected to Nord, you are kind of blanket-protected Nord has also expanded to which is a password manager. If you're not using a password because it allows you to have but only have to memorize one password to store all of your passwords. What I've started doing to connect to a different and then search for or anything that I think because people think that I'm in the United States, which I am. But if I connect via a different country, I get access to a different including different shows that aren't available in my country. And none of this compromises on speed. Luckily, you could get a massive discount if you use my link, When you click the link, but it also gets you of NordVPN when you sign Oh, and if you sign up and you decide that this is not a good fit, or you don't need it, or whatever, you can get all your Sign up risk-free, try it out, Yeah, thank you, NordVPN, Okay, let's get back to - I've never seen anything to the extent that I have in New York. Now, from a real estate standpoint, it's probably become the People are flocking here by droves. - Well, they weren't flocking In fact, when Trump moved to Manhattan, Manhattan was kind of a city in decline. It was full of empty, crumbling buildings, kind of like a faded But Trump came in with a huge vision, a huge enthusiasm to resurrect the city at a time when most investors about putting their money Check out this New York Times feature on Donald Trump around this time. Tall, lean, blonde, with A glib, nonstop talker, who believes that, quote, &quot;New York is either or much worse.&quot; And he's predicting quote, &quot;Much better.&quot; That's a pretty good prediction. Over the next decade, Trump used his father's money, reputation, to buy and give them glitzy renovations. - And we purchased the old Commodore Hotel and we've reconverted that now into about $110 million - This includes the purchase of this old department atop of which he built his a 68-story building in Midtown Manhattan, or was it 58 Floors? Trump sort of has a habit of like exaggerating the number Anyway, the point is the It was a welcome renovation, But no one loved it more because he was winning. In a very short time, he had broken away from his life in business in Queens and built a temple unto himself, a physical expression of his and exclusivity, and attention. - [Reporter] Trump Tower, the creation which holds a shopping area, where if you have to ask the - Marble, gold, columns, waterfalls, mahogany woodwork, chandeliers. And for Trump and his family, a massive three-story penthouse that looks like a European But remember, winning is not Next, he needed to make And he needed to control the narrative. The story couldn't be that he who gave him money, and to make a lot of this happen, or that a lot of these deals were made with a combination of tax exemptions with some fairly shady and, at times, full on lies to banks in order to secure funding. That's something we understand now because court rulings have come out to prove how shady a lot of this was. But no, no, no. At the time, the story needed to be that he was this smart, hardworking guy. And honestly, there's no doubt about that. But this is where Donald comes into play, showing his while crafting a story about his success that people would just eat up. (upbeat music) And a big part of that storytelling is reflective of another that people want to be sold a fantasy. I mean, and I'm not speculating on this, in his book he says that, quote, &quot;I play to people's fantasies. People may not always but they can still get very That's why little hyperbole never hurts. People want to believe that and the greatest, and This is truly one of the most because I think he's right. I think people do like - I like him. The man's got it made, got everything. - He started crafting of this rich, no-BS talker. He became good at getting telling the story that you want to hear. - I'm a rather, and you'll be surprised, but I can be a rather humble I like to be non-controversial. Have you folks noticed that? (attendees laughing) - By the mid 1980s, Trump's tower and big personality had made him famous, giving him the platform to keep as a rich party animal, always surrounded by And there was perhaps nowhere that helped elevate this than the New York City tabloids. - I mean, 22 days in a row or something, I'm on the cover of the tabloids. It's never been anything like that. - Trump appeared on the front 87 times in the course of 15 years. And this was not by This was a part of his strategy. He learned how to hack This idea that no matter for shady business, like bribing people that have allowing his casinos to be all of this can be washed with a tantalizing, glamorous lifestyle. Sell them a fantasy 'cause Or better yet, in his own words in 1991 in an Esquire interview, quote, &quot;You know, it really doesn't as long as you've got a young This would prove to be And the tabloids were his - The reputation of Donald Trump, the man who dates a - I wanna talk a little because I feel like this for learning how to work to get attention. He became an expert at getting people to pay attention to him for good and bad, and finding a way to to appear in print. Like, for example, when the tabloids were covering his struggling marriage with his first wife, Ivana Trump, who he later had three children with, he and Ivana faced off trying to shape the tabloids' narrative by fostering relationships and planting information. Trump had been having an affair who later became his second wife and the mother of his fourth child. And this affair, this to the New York tabloids And instead of hide because it added to his image. It was these years where he really learned that all press was good press. He also got really good using fake names like John Yes, I'm literally would call journalists and pretend that his name was John Barron that would benefit himself, Donald Trump. Like, here he is in 1984, who is assembling a list of - [Jonathan] Okay, what's your first name? - [Donald] John, John Barron. - Even though it sounds just like Trump, we know that it's him saying that he's the vice president of the Trump organization and saying that he knows of the family business and - [Jonathan] Okay, and would you say, you know, in excess of 90% - [Donald] I'd say in excess of 90. In fact, well, it's really but it's in excess of 90%, yes. - If it's not obvious, he's lying. He's playing pretend. He didn't own 90% of his dad's business. And guess what? It totally worked. Forbes ended up coming out with a list that said that Donald Trump was worth a hundred million dollars. But later, we learned that Man, if only it was that easy today. Like, were reporters This guy obviously I mean, listen to him. - [Donald] Just consolidated. I think last year, somebody and I think he had 200 and 200. And really, it's been for the most- - And if you're skeptical, that, quote, &quot;I believe I referring to his use of And as his baseball coach said Trump will do anything to win. Oh, and let's be clear though, the definition of winning here isn't what most of us think of, which is being the best at something while following the rules To Trump, winning means making people think you're even though you're The truth doesn't matter. The perception matters. He gave them the drama that they wanted about his divorces and relationships, and in exchange, he got the and that he used to craft his image. So, so far, this is my of what motivates this guy, how he thinks, and how he's first in real estate development, but soon in much, much more. - [Narrator] A man that is seen in the '90s as a man in trouble. - This surely will be my because it's about to get wild. (rhythmic music) - There is a new billionaire in town. Trump's the name. Donald Trump is a major - Throughout the '80s and '90s, Trump's name starts to Trump magazine, real Dear reader, over the an intensely cogent philosophy. (laughs) And then he launches an airline. - [Reporter] Donald Trump for a price tag of $365 million. The Eastern shuttle is no more. Tomorrow morning, it will - Planes with leather seats, faux marble, gold-plated sinks, that the flight attendants to which Trump responded, &quot;Tell them to push harder.&quot; - We are going to run the and we really don't - The airline did fail But remember our rules. We don't admit defeat. He claimed that it was a success. He launches a board game. Trump: The Game, which but with a few tweaks. (lighthearted music) I got the instruction booklet I would be disappointed We got a hundred million dollar bills, monopoly money with Trump's face on it. You got real estate, you got The game represents everything that Trump wants you to believe about him and parts of his real life. He had built a real estate empire. - I win. - Yeah, you always win. - Trump opens a slew of that helped revive Atlantic City. These casinos were just like everything Trump touched. He helped start an to compete with the NFL. - And the answer is we are in a form of war right now with the NFL. There's no question about it. - That didn't work out. He launched a vodka brand. I have it right here. Success distilled. Even though, side note, Donald Trump doesn't and apparently - I'm glad I'm not a drinker. I mean, I've never had a drink in my life. - This also no longer exists but I did it for the fans. 120 bucks on sale. The world's finest, super premium vodka. Like, it sounds like Trump. His wording, like, I super premium, the finest, the best, like everything's the best. Everything's the best. And then of course there's A big part of Trump's image was that he was consistently - [Contestants] Donald, Donald, Donald! - So he bought up major beauty pageants. - [Donald] You know, they're Is everybody okay? And you see these and so I sort of get away - At least 26 women accusing Donald Trump of some This includes his ex-wife, who accused him of but then later softened the allegation after a legal settlement. Anyway, this is a long list that each have a specific But it includes one case where Trump was found Now he denies all of this, that is, until he thinks - [Donald] I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her. You know, I'm automatically I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. I just kiss. I don't even wait. And when you're a star, You can do anything. - [Billy] Whatever you want. - [Donald] Grab 'em by the (beep). You can do anything. (crew member laughing) - But this didn't stop Trump as an icon of relatable fame and fortune. He continues to put turning, as one Trump quote, &quot;From a serious He's on the cover of Playboy. He creates a real estate investing course that he calls his university, which he eventually He launches a travel and tourism website, a mortgage company, a - Finally, the same luxury and comfort I demand in my hotels. - A men's clothing line, including ties. Okay, wait, side note, I When I was a Mormon missionary and I had to wear this every day, the only way to express And so we would trade And the most valuable ties were Trump ties because they were like so, I don't know, they just had weight. They just had brand power Yeah. I once traded a Trump Anyway, moving on. There's Trump winery. And then he's suddenly - When it comes to great steaks, I've just raised the stakes. - Like, we kept finding new like this urine test kit for a couple hundred bucks. No, we did not buy it, right? - [Staff] I was told to, $500. - $500, no thank you. Oh my god, we almost pulled Nope. And then of course this, literal water called Trump and just water from 2004 or something. We also paid a lot of money for this. Collector's item. Oh no, it expired in 2004. We're going on 20 years 20-year-old water, I Should I take a sip? Should I open it? Like, what else am I gonna do? I have to take a sip. I'm drinking some right now. - [Staff] Whoa. - I'm doing it. Oh, whoa, this is like, Oh, dude, it's been like vacuum sealed. Oh. It smells chemically. I'm taking a sip. This could be my final sip. Death by Trump water. (imitates choking) No, I'm just kidding. Wow. Okay, Trump water, tastes like prestige. Like, this guy could brand He had become a symbol. But what you have to know is that he didn't own most of this. He's really just licensing his name. Like, all around the world, They have the Trump name on them. But Trump or his organization They don't manage them. They simply give the permission to use the name to signal a sense of prestige, brand power. Trump's image had become appealing especially to Because even though Trump he presented like an everyman, who was a plane talker, he had an outer-borough, Queen's accent, and yet he had it all, the and this pull yourself up by of having earned it from the ground up, a Disneyland-esque version which was a mix of half We're used to a lot of this stuff now, celebrities and influencers to sell someone else's product. But back in like the '80s, most people would see and think that like Trump owned all of it, that he had this massive empire with dozens and dozens of products. Leasing his name allowed him but without using his own cash. And when these businesses failed, as nearly all of them eventually did, Trump could pocket his profits, cut ties, without facing the fallout Now let me be clear. I'm not saying that this is If anything, it was smart. I guess my takeaway here wasn't being a businessman It was being a marketer, a the ability to sell himself and the fantasy that he His rise is almost entirely explained by his ability to do that, combined with the fact with an obscene amount of Okay, but let's move ahead with the story. I've emphasized this enough. Trump has built this big fantasy brand. It's really working. He's making a lot of money. He becomes like an icon. But by the early 2000s, his brand was kind of losing its luster. His business empire his casinos were filing for bankruptcy, and his glory days But that would change in 2004 when he was able to once this time on a reality TV show. - [Donald] New York City, it's Believe me, I know. My name is Donald Trump, and I'm the largest developer in New York. - The concept was the of the reality TV show &quot;Survivor.&quot; And it was pretty brilliant. Trump would be the boss looking over his vast business empire, and there would be to impress the big boss This ended up being a powerful It was a massive success, bringing in tens of millions of viewers and rejuvenating Trump's a household name for many Americans who would tune in to watch that he had been preparing the showman in the spotlight, entertaining people while and his image as a ruthless businessman. - You're fired. - Oh God, oh my God. - &quot;The Apprentice&quot; with and laid the foundation his launch into running for president. - I am officially running for president of the United States. (attendees cheering) And we are going to make our country great again. (attendees cheering) - Do you have the the genes - Well, you never really know. I think I'm pretty outspoken, and that's not probably a good thing in terms of a politician, but it's a good thing you can really do a job. - You've said though that if you believe you'd win. - Well, I don't know, I think I'd win. I tell you what, I wouldn't go in to lose. I've never gone in to lose in my life. - [Johnny] Trump had flirted a few times before. - On the Republican that developer Donald Trump may - But it was only in the 2000s, while he was crafting his that he started to insert himself into politics more and more, like in 2008 when he challenged whether or not then candidate Barack Obama was actually an American citizen. - More recently, Donald Trump have questioned President - We have to look at it. We have to see, is it real? - Now, this was an overt display of racism that did not land well And it coincided with a sharp decline in The Apprentice's ratings. Eventually, most of would go on to fold. And once again, he seemed to be on course for being a name of the past. But we know this guy by now. He is fueled by an endless desire to win and be recognized for it. And he had a pretty So in 2015, Trump descended an escalator and threw him himself into the spotlight, the spotlight that he knows so well. When he was asked later why he he said, quote, &quot;Because I have so many rich friends You must fight for recognition or you'll end up as someone else's sucker. - Say what you will about Mr. Trump, he certainly would bring some (attendees laughing) - So he wielded his tireless work ethic and his ability to inflame, and divide, and lie, and lie, and all the way into the limelight. After years of practice on smaller stages, he entered the largest stage of them all and expertly sold the fantasy despite having never lived And it worked. He won. He didn't get the most votes, but he still won fair and square. And he became the President for four years. And then when he lost, he what we could have predicted he would do. He fought it, fought it to the death, attacking the rules of the selling his lies to an angry and dealing a blow to the foundations of our fragile democracy. And tens of millions of (protesters jeering) There's a reason why Republicans who understand how power works that he's running for president again. Dick Cheney, the epitome of said that, quote, &quot;In our there has never been an individual who's a greater threat to our He tried to steal the last to keep himself in power He can never be trusted with power again.&quot; He's one of the many Republicans, including his previous vice president, who understand how our country works, how delicate our system is, and who see clearly how And it scares them. It scares them for the very This is not typical political fighting. This is weird, this is different. This is a genuine worry a system that now, thanks to gives a sitting president right at a time when indictments are racking up against Donald Trump, not because the deep not because the Democrats but because he has broken the law and our system is working to - [Jack] Today, an indictment was unsealed charging Donald J. Trump with conspiring to defraud the United States, conspiring to disenfranchise voters, and conspiring and attempting to obstruct an official proceeding. - As Trump runs again for the White House, I've been seeing these these beliefs, these behaviors. He has a tried-and-true playbook, and he'll use it over and over again. I mean, just look at this side by side that &quot;The Daily Show&quot; recently did. - Joe Biden is a failed president. She was a failed vice president. The worst president in the history. The worst vice president in history. He's incompetent. She's incompetent. She can't talk. She can't talk. Lower IQ, he's a low IQ individual. She happens to be really She really does. She has a very low IQ. (audience laughing) - After studying his life and watching him lead my it feels clear to me that Donald Trump will continue to pursue this this lifelong ambition to win, to win and to get recognition for it, recognition that he so This is what he's been to win at all costs, to And my genuine worry, like is that this time he's willing to rip apart the entire I've made a similar video for the other candidate That video comes out next week. It is a similar biography I've tried to approach both of but at some point I also have to say what I observe and what I see. You know, I really feel was expanded through this research. I was able to humanize him, and understand him. And I think that's really important. And yet, when I feel that ensures my freedom and like, that is also something that I will say full-throatedly Make sure to check out our which is a deep dive on started by my old colleague Sam Ellis. If you like this channel, you'll And also make sure to All the music that we make in our videos is custom-made by our composer Tom Fox. He publishes that music, and So the link is in the It's called Chromatic. You can go listen to it or license it with that link in the description. Lastly and most importantly, if you are above 18 years please go register to vote. It takes probably 90 seconds. If you have a driver's license you can do it online, Please do that. Half of young people will Therefore, half of a huge will just not be heard, which So make time to do it. It feels good. And you get a sticker Okay, thanks, everyone. See you. (rhythmic music)