The initial idea for Don't Starve was formed Entertainment held their yearly company game break. Developers Kevin Forbes and Ju-Lian Kwan teamed later be used as the basis for Don't Starve. The prototype only featured a health meter, day &amp; night cycle. At night, pig creatures would show up at your overcrowd you, resulting in your health going The only way to stop them was to pick up a Once the player eats the meat, the health It took Kevin and Ju-Lian two days to make For about a year, their demo was just a quirky more. Back then, the studio was still working hard point. Development began to wrap up in December 2011, of the Ninja was still in production. However, most of the programmers had already studio decided to run a little experiment. See, Klei Entertainment was getting tired a game. Being a small independent studio, getting necessary to be able to provide salaries for enough money left in case finding the next On top of that, when they do find a publisher, publisher, creating a less than ideal situation Therefore, the indie studio wanted to see very quickly so that they could self-publish most of the profits. Jamie Cheng, the CEO and founder of Klei, for his employees, where constantly meeting be a thing of the past. It's safe to say that a lot was riding on Around the same time, Google was looking to Store, a platform that seemed perfect to experiment So, Klei decided to try and create a new IP Feeling fatigued from creating three side to do something completely different. Their old game jam prototype seemed like the "Project Not Sidescrolling" was aptly The plan was to assign four developers, three as fast as possible, get it to a minimally Afterwards, iterate the game based on people's The only design constraint the team had to This was a hard sell for some of the developers model was becoming more and more popular and Klei felt if they didn't try to get in on behind. Artist Jeff Agala kicked off development by for the project. These early drawings depicted a much more Starve ended up becoming. Kevin admitted at a GDC talk that this was that's into free-to-play games. The core of the idea consisted of two separate One part of the concept saw the player become You could expand the town so that more creatures If the player doesn't take care of its town, The team had ideas such as being able to buy can feed them to the pigs to keep them happy While this part of the experience was very games, the other part saw players exploring their town. Of course, going out into the wilderness would you'd pay to play more. Klei pitched the concept to Google who liked Now it was time for the programmers to start and make it playable on a browser. They created a custom C++ engine that was the team had little characters running around After the basic setup, it was time to start Since developing the town aspect of the project decided to first create the adventure part The general hook of this mode was the emergent all sorts of little things that the wilderness One of the initial test runs of this idea player has to craft a trap, use it as bait starvation. This process is meant to teach the player to discover things for themselves. For example, some players might try to eat health so next time they might try to cook After some iteration, playtests were positive the concept. This gave the devs the confidence to experiment Before we move on, I'd like to talk about brand for men's grooming and hygiene products. Manscaped sent me their Performance Package First, you have the electric trimmer for your Now before, I would simply use some tiny scissors as some of you may know, that's quite an dangerous effort. But the lawn mower 4.0 makes it so easy with at all and it's waterproof so you can even The package also comes with a nose and ear It's wireless and has the same SkinSafe no pain involved at all. Also included are two products I never knew The Crop Preserver ball deodorant and the Simply apply the Crop Preserver after your The Crop Reviver quickly refreshes the ball spritz. For a limited time, you get all this plus the Manscaped anti-chafing boxer briefs. Go to Manscaped.com today and get 20% off gifts when you use promo code Glen - G-L-E-N Now back to the video. People that have played Don't Starve probably but this wasn't always the case. In fact, the team had built an entire level that were tailored to certain missions for As the developers unfortunately discovered, very boring for the player. Furthermore, lots of different goals and therefore designed to keep players interested and to of missions per day. The four developers assigned to the project all the necessary assets. Everyone went back to the drawing board and of roguelikes the team was playing at the For instance, it gave them the idea to procedurally manually handcrafting levels wasn't necessary Permadeath, a popular mechanic in roguelikes, When it came to missions and the actual gameplay, player figure everything out themselves, meaning They decided to focus less on what they thought the direction of the game to make it more The creators began leaning harder and harder game that was intrinsically rewarding. "It's going to be fun, because it's That's why it's fun". The founder of Klei compares Don't Starve You don't necessarily get anything out of experience of doing that thing. That's the core of Don't Starve. This new direction was a double edged sword feel left out, but it gave Don't Starve to the developers. "I've read of some players bouncing off progression model: people will die after hours have accumulated in-game. They ask: &quot;What was the point? I have nothing to show for my time!&quot; Well, they had the experience of playing the it. If that wasn't fun or worthwhile while they will make it so. I think that a lot of the social cruft that's is a distraction that detracts from the joy Don't Starve was built to test this hypothesis." As the team started to embrace the more punishing that was mostly made and animated in Flash, direction, while still trying to maintain The main character Wilson became tougher looking more black &amp; white color scheme with a sketchy by works from artists such as Tim Burton and This new look complemented the tone and gameplay After about two months since development began, product. Wilson was not yet finalized but there was busy and experiment with the gameplay mechanics. The big difference compared to the final version Now, the developers were adamant about not this stage they still wanted to give people feel too lost or aimless. Therefore, simple tasks were presented to and complexity. It was meant to teach players the basic mechanics After a lot of playtesting, it became clear was more of a hindrance than anything else. Playtesters would execute the assigned objectives the tasks were done and the game would simply explore the vast wilderness. However, at that point, playtesters would next. Without realizing it, the team had optimized Yes, players were winning the game as it was explore in any meaningful way beyond that. After a lot of back-and-forth between the Of course, all these rather drastic changes nothing like the concept Klei pitched to Google. For starters, half the game just wasn't pig town segment, outside of some concept Additionally, free to play monetization just of the game. Having people pay for a bucket of meat so just flew in the face of the entire design The studio had some soul searching to do. Kevin explained that he and the rest of the to monetize the project in its current state, the game. Jamie was also hesitant about making the game To him, permadeath seemed like too harsh a Developers Kevin and Jeff took matters into artstyle and mechanics in place and showed It was enough to convince him to go forward Luckily for Klei, Google responded positively their partnership. Their new concept involved removing the town the best possible survival game; and instead would now only rely on microtransactions from would introduce after launch. Though, it didn't take long for the team and just go for a traditional one time payment Going forward, the team relied on four design player discovery and mysteries. The last pillar is meant to invoke player There's so many little things to discover only see 20% of the content during a single For example, there's an entire adventure game never even hints at it. As a result, it's really cool when you accidentally likely to tell your friends about it. In the summer of 2012, a free beta version Web Store in order to gather feedback from before giving players access to an expanded, &quot;Opening up the development cycle early has It's great for figuring out what aspects of and for nipping usability issues in the bud. It has also forced us to figure out our distribution, which should make our eventual roll-out a In the winter of 2012, a paid early access and the developers were very transparent with They used the dedicated Don't Starve forums Furthermore, the creators released a public people had suggestions on how to improve the Every two weeks, players could expect an updated and added more content in general. A good example of the community giving the The team was already planning on adding this without making it very grindy. Coincidentally, a thread was started on the how interesting it would be if food would The thread became really popular with lots a good and interesting way. It grabbed the attention of the developers This all eventually led to the current food Something very interesting started to happen In an attempt to grow the community as fast to everyone that bought the early access version Surprisingly, many people gave their extra in the hopes they would play it and make content And lots of them did. This, combined with the sense of mystery and the least. Before the 1.0 version was even released, Moving forward, word of mouth was going to On April 23rd, 2013, about a year and a half Don't Starve was released on Steam. Critics praised the uncompromising survival love or hate the high level of difficulty. Luckily, more than enough people loved the Starve sold one million copies. The growing popularity of Klei's first survival it for six months after release, adding things characters and a whole underground cave system The Steam release sadly marked the end of all began. All the new content and features increased a point where the Chrome platform wasn't agility the team strived for. The platform also didn't support mods so Players who bought the game for Chrome received Steam version. As the playerbase got bigger and bigger, more adding a multiplayer mode. Surviving in the dangerous open world of Don't a perfect fit to the community. Despite this, the studio was very much against Klei was very focused on making Don't Starve possibly be and didn't want to sacrifice mode as well. They also weren't confident enough that it However, once the completed version was out now had both plenty of time and resources In the following months, Klei hired more people Starve related content. Jamie Cheng was especially excited about multiplayer on board, he would pitch it to them. One of them was really into the idea as well After a couple months and an office-wide session was on board to develop it further. The standalone multiplayer version titled Early Access platform in December 2014 and 2016. To entice and support the multiplayer aspect that buys it an extra copy, just like they game. The plan worked and Don't Starve Together companion. Throughout the years, the studio released characters, creatures, items and other features Even today, the studio is still creating new by their 2021 roadmap on the Don't Starve The post also mentions plans for addressing ports of the original game and its DLC. The team learned a lot of lessons from developing namely that the market is broader than you At the start they thought they had to make in the industry were saying that traditional This is also why the team initially set out to as many people as possible to make sure However, Don't Starve shows that a studio to a niche group of people that will happily Furthermore, the open and transparent development the devs. It was by far the best way to optimize for the opportunity early on in development to the playerbase. All the while, the team was already making worry too much about sustaining development Lastly, it also taught the team that overtime Klei Entertainment had problems in the past deadlines. Don't Starve was their experiment to see publishers and create a company culture where It worked even better than the devs expected. No publisher meant Klei was able to set their The beta phase also kept them on a good schedule led to a very quiet and relaxed launch day. Nowadays, Klei has a reputation in the industry very well and is still able to release games It goes without saying that Jamie Cheng is "We wanted it all. My goal was to build a company that could For 20 years, for longer; and the only way that well is by retaining staff. What I want, and I don't know how long it's and say 'well, they did it and they did before they started. They own everything they've done. Maybe we can do that too.'"