5G marks yet another next One part of the transition promised immense It is a fascinating technology. But difficult technical and If semiconductors are black magic, then or RFICs, are the darkest of the dark arts. Let us take our first Defense Against the Dark we dip our toes into RFICs ## Beginnings The distance that wave travels in a single cycle is called the wavelength. How many cycles pass through a and it is measured in hertz car rental company based in Florida. Not A megahertz means a million cycles passing in a Frequency and wavelength are inversely related. Some of the highest frequency waves Their wavelengths are measured in the picometers, and they have so much energy we Countries allocate parts of their spectrum or WiFi. Spectrum is fundamentally limited, and The last big wireless generation was telecoms converged on the LTE standard But being a world standard, LTE frequency slices - anywhere from the 450 This made developing an LTE &quot;world phone&quot; concerned the capacity constraints when you The 1G through 4G systems have always used over the years those neighborhoods had gotten particular geography has only around 200 megahertz ## 5G philosophical foundations of Yes, 5G wireless networks must be able mobile video it seems. This section of the 5G But its creators also envisioned 5G enabling other types of communication. One is an or URLLC. URLLC is for handling super important Imagine self-driving cars communicating with each wirelessly controlled. Both cases, we need to The other use case is Massive Machine Type machines that transmit data infrequently actuators, vending machines and the like. These three cases involve different streaming video on your phone does not as autonomous cars exchanging data to Because these philosophical goals 5G was thusly designed to be more flexible use. For the first time, 5G opens up a ## Millimeter Wave In 2011, Zhouyue Pi and Farooq wrote an influential article in Pi and Khan looked at all the tricks of the limited spectrum and concluded So Pi and Khan suggested entering regions - pointing to several mmWave These are called millimeter wave bands because range. The FCC opened them up in 2003 for the spectrum was only used for military radars, Basically point-to-point connections mmWave beams at another big fixed The beam tolerances are such that strong the beams. So you can guess why mmWave has Probably the first consumer use case radar. The 77 gigahertz spectrum band driver assistance systems in cars identify Another use case was the WiGig WiFi standard, which uses a 60 gigahertz band. First formed in But after Samsung's paper, the idea gained NYU and UT Austin showed it technically feasible So in the end, 5G gained support for a 52.6 gigahertz. This is in addition in more traditional sub-7 gigahertz neighborhoods. ## RFICs Here, we should take a pause and Your slick, sexy iPhone 16 and your light years apart. But at the end of A transceiver being combo devices that Let us sequentially step through there is going to be a lot of terminology. But Imagine a phone and it wants the phone's processor sends text data to the The RFIC begins by converting those digital bits you get as a result is called the &quot;baseband&quot;, ## Upconversion Great. We can transmit the signal now, right? No. The problem is that the baseband problems with the antenna. The rule be about half the wavelength. baseband means a big wavelength and thus So we - and by we, I mean the RFIC, not baseband signal with a higher frequency This unholy ritual is known as &quot;upconversion&quot;, and it transmogrifies the baseband The cell operator chooses the carrier to them by the regulator, as well as what is When we create the passband signal, we higher and/or lower than the carrier and this is where the actual data The whole slice of frequency from the lowest The size of the sidebands is defined a higher carrier frequency - like that of of 25 gigahertz is way higher than 10% of 7 ## Path Loss Now the passband signal is more Your iPhone needs to communicate with the cell usually about 2 kilometers away from and 30-100 Imagine a wave traveling or propagating phone. You might imagine it as like the mobile device. Kind of like a force The formal name for this expanding bubble real world, a perfect isotropic radiator - like a perfect marriage on Instagram - does the &quot;bubble&quot; will flatten out. But I think Anyway, so we have this bubble expanding direction. The mobile phone used that bubble. That power is spread out So as the bubble travels outward, its surface This dilution is known as &quot;path loss&quot;, and Path loss in turn leads to &quot;attenuation&quot; - which in the wireless world refers to the Not all attenuation is due to path and the like are other reasons - but path loss is Thanks to this path loss and if we want the passband signal to reach the tower, then we must amplify its power. This ## Power Amplifier The power amplifier is the It is also one of the most difficult a power amplifier that can achieve the the tower while also maintaining A wireless device is a power pulling power also generates heat. So We can measure this with a metric called watts of power from the battery and outputs Another thing that power amplifier designers &quot;linearity&quot;. Linearity describes the signal's Finally after exiting the power amplifier, the boosted passband signal is ## Antennas Antennas. We are finally at antennas. So we that would be too easy. I If you were paying attention to the section wondering. Per the Friis equation, the path So high frequency waves travel less If we go from 3 gigahertz to 30 gigahertz worse, and we would need immense This is only the case with a pair of identically smaller with mmWave, we can also make the antennas And so we can stuff whole arrays of some cases as many as 32. These antenna arrays can generate directional beams aimed at the I am strangely reminded of the eye of Sauron in that Lord of Rings movie. So that was transmitting to the tower. it forms another beam towards the handset. Then inside the handset, it reverse. We receive and isolate and then use a mixer to pull out the analog ## Line of Sight One of the big issues with mmWave with - is that the signal cannot Buildings, foliage, and trees and outdoor tinted glass are mmWave signals. AT&amp;T flagged the latter On the other hand, heavy rainfall does not conclude no major effect for people Even just facing away from performance. A 2022 experiment done at times better downlink and 3 times Nice. But if you only just turn then you suffer a drastic drop in both metrics. So the general rule of thumb is busy areas with &quot;line of sight&quot;: I suppose that I should mention like the link to COVID. I have seen but little credible scientific evidence that these I am no doctor. But it seems to me at worst, it without penetrating very deep. I reckon ubiquitous and energetic electromagnetic ## Densification So what does this densification Previously with 1G through 4G, telecoms of several kilometers. With mmWave, cells in dense amounts. Perhaps Acquiring this many 5G sites is a challenging, time consuming task. These sites have to provide emergency services. As well as a And they also have to be aesthetically look at a cell tower. Not to mention the Telecoms have considered leveraging or exterior glass - to bounce mmWave how sunlight reflects off windows to a bit crazy but that saves money as ## Deployment The deployment from LTE to 5G has The definition of 5G is any device using the 5G New Radio standard supports three The low and mid bands are between 410 megahertz good coverage but weaker capacity. bands - are basically not that The high band is where the mmWave capacity and data rates are promised. work due to the propagation Now, telecoms can't just abandon so they got two ways to deploy The standalone option is to build and deploy to a 5G core network and connected to 5G New The Non-standalone option is a middle and Standalone 5G. There is a 5G New This gets you somewhat faster but the improvement isn't great ## United States The big American telecoms Verizon and It made sense for them. The low and mid band 5G 3G and 4G networks. So for those telecoms, In 2018, Verizon started deploying Non-Standalone service, which is like internet broadband The fixed wireless access stuff works well. Other companies like US Cellular and T-Mobile The issue had to do with the mobile service part of the mmWave rollout. By the time 5G came Most customers were not super-willing The super-confusing branding of much either. Lots of people had no the LTE-5G middle ground, the &quot;real&quot; ## Pullback The biggest hope was in late 2020, when Apple The US version of the iPhone Unfortunately that still did not much mmWave would carry about 5% And Verizon said that &quot;over time, 50% But in 2021, the analytics company of mobile traffic in US urban areas Another study of San Diego by EJL Wireless after connection, any slight movement would cause skeptical that Verizon could get a good return on Verizon and Qualcomm - the latter a major backer than how much data traffic is shifted to the existing 3G and 4G networks, and thus Nevertheless, Wall Street was not pleased, especially as the insurgent third telecom T-mobile Since then, it seems like Verizon and AT&amp;T the two companies bought licenses for 3.7 gigahertz. A prime band. Verizon by itself Since then, the two companies have focused including their standalone 5G network. Meanwhile, device support - especially on the it is still only the US and their iPads even recently ## Conclusion Before we conclude, I want to thank in walking me through this complicated ecosystem. The video would not be possible without The telecoms are still expanding wireless access in rural areas and high sports stadiums. And honestly, that is where Is there a super-compelling, super-broad killer of things&quot; and industry 4.0 initiatives that 5G In the United States, deployments have not looking at more creative solutions to use this Outside of the United States, the rest of the significant exception being Japan, which set up a But Technology continues to evolve. Telecoms the true 5G, bolstered by continuing improvements done by Qualcomm and others. But will mmWave