&gt;&gt;Janna Levin (Astronomer, Barnard College): I love this venue. It's such a romantic venue. We're literally under the planetarium. I love it. Yeah, I - this building has a special place It's really nice to see everyone come out Woo, science. Yeah, we believe in science. Science is great. So, I wanted to talk tonight about this recent On February 11 of this year, an otherwise obscure experiment made an announcement that sort of made the entire world kind of freeze and pause for a second. How many people heard around February Okay, excellent. It was an amazing moment. I don't even think that the experimentalists After about an hour, how many people felt what the gravitational wave detection was Okay, yeah. [Laughs] Oh, yeah, this one guy. This one guy did. [laughs] Yeah, it's very, very difficult to understand. And so I want to spend tonight picking apart why it was so monumental and why it was so Even though very few people had heard about people's lives. Some of the original LIGO experimentalists when people didn't even know if black holes when people didn't even know if gravitational Einstein was arguing about the existence of He kept changing his mind. He famously wrote a paper saying gravitational and then between acceptance and actual putting he snuck in a completely different paper that So, he was sort of all over the place. And it's an incredibly difficult subject. So, imagine starting this experiment in the It's the centenary of the year, or the day first proposed the existence of gravitational waves, and So, I really want to spend some time talking So, here it is. We're about to listen. And this is already something you should feel We're going to listen to the discovery. In astronomy, we look at discoveries. This time, we're going to listen to the This is--it's going to play twice. It's going to play the sound of the gravitational increase it in pitch because the human ear So, you're going to hear it better the second Okay, here we go. [audio plays] Want to hear it again? [audio plays] Okay, so in the second time, all that's in pitch, and you could hear it again. Now, you should already be wondering why this giant machine, which spans four kilometers in the U.S., made a recording at all. Why didn't it take a picture like a telescope? And so that's what we're going to spend And why can we hear it? It literally lands in the human auditory range, so we'll talk about that as well. So, what was the gravitational wave discovery So, let's first start with what we do know. This is actually from the digital atlas here It's a compilation of known observations Essentially, every object that has ever been And then you can drive around the atlas if And here is a map. This is not a cartoon or a simulation. It's a map showing what our own galaxy looks This is the Milky Way galaxy. It's a collection of 100 billion stars. We have never gotten this far outside of the This is some hundreds of thousands of light We have never been able to get there. Where we live is inside the Milky Way. So, here we are. Let's go and figure out where we are in before we figure out how we observe it. We're coming inside into the spiral arms. New Yorkers are always very offended to find that they actually live in the galactic suburbs. I know that's terribly disappointing. [Laughter] But it's better than the center of the galaxy And we are slowing spiraling into that supermassive but it's 26,000 light years away. It will take a very long time. There's our sun. It's quite an average sort of yellow star. We have gotten not even this far outside of Well, here we have. We have, we have. Voyager, which was launched in the '70s just broke out of the sun's magnetic influence And that's the farthest we've flung anything Here we are on the third rock from the sun. It's a very nice place, you may have heard. Good real estate. [Laughs] And you just saw the great view we had of Okay, here we are. Most of us are bound to this rock. Very few of us have left this rock. Most of our satellites orbit this rock. Very few things make it away from the earth So, everything we know about the universe And that's already stunning. It comes to us as we receive light sent to And because it takes light traveling to us the further away we see something, the further So, we have a map not only of a universe 90-some but nearly 14 billion years old. And we get it all by taking pictures. Since Galileo first pointed a telescope at And what we're doing differently now is in complete darkness; in the absence of light. And to do that, we really use gravity. This is another, again, digital atlas. It's not a cartoon. Every object you see in this digital atlas So, there are as many galaxies in the observable There are hundreds of billions of galaxies, And although this is a lot of stuff that we've Ninety-five percent of the universe is not It will never send us light. We will never see it with a telescope. The cosmos is largely darkness. We're lucky we can do astronomy now because So, here we are--and I didn't mean that [laughter] Don't read too much into it people. So, here we are. What do we do with a universe that is largely We want to use pure gravity. And that's where Einstein comes in. So, Einstein proposes his most radical, most It's finally written down beautifully in Did I say 1916? I lied. Nineteen-fifteen. It's all right, you can look it up. Einstein once said he didn't know his phone because why memorize something you could look So, that's kind of how I feel about some So, in 1915 Einstein writes down his most And in this idea, he expresses his entire He says--and we're going to say it in one that mass and energy, like the sun, curves So, things fall under natural curves in space. If you think about, if I was floating in empty and I were to throw my clicker, what path I mean, totally empty space; no earth, no What path do you imagine it would take? Straight line. Because what else is it going to do? Straight line. If I throw the clicker in this room, what You again. It's going to go down. It is literally tracing for you a curve in It's a stunning idea. It's an absolutely stunning idea. Mathematically it's very hard, but the intuition it's my hand that's in the way of gravity And once I let go, it's going to trace for And so when the International Space Station it is falling freely along a circular curve It's absolutely falling. It's just thrown so fast that it always It never crashes into the surface of the earth. But it's actually the astronauts in the That's what they're doing all the time. So, there's Einstein's theory in a nutshell. Not bad. Now, you don't have to go to graduate school Here's the most extreme example of Einstein's It's the black hole. Here's my portrait of a black hole. [laughs] So, in the same year that Einstein publishes who's an infantry soldier during the war is between calculating cannon fire trajectories. Starts reading the proceedings of the Prussian and solves for the curved spacetime around pretending really, just as a fantasy--that It's not a physical or real solution. It's just an idea. Imagine that it wasn't the earth, but everything He writes down this solution. It's very obscure. Einstein's very impressed with it. He helps him get it published, but Einstein This is not reality. Nature will protect us from such strange things. The strangeness we now know as the black hole, Nineteen-sixty-seven, I believe it earned So, here is a black hole. This is not a cartoon. It's a mathematical model by a physicist Andrew Hamilton who does these In this computer simulation, a black hole And if you took the entire sun and made it across. It would comfortably fit in Manhattan. Six kilometers across the entire mass of the And what do we mean by six kilometers across? We mean that there's a shadow cast because that even light takes a path that always points There are no paths that point outward. No curves in spacetime. Saying it another way, you would have to travel to escape from that shadow. If you were to go up to the black hole, there's We have this myth that black holes are dense Black holes are empty spacetime. They're like places more than they are things. And here we're seeing a little model of the sun's gone. So, the little model of the earth is self-illuminated, and notice it's looking very warped as it And that's just an effect of the light following So, all of this is about the bending of light. We're almost at gravitational waves. So, here Einstein begins to think immediately, and these strange things, which don't have can curve the space and time around them, follow them. And if the curves have to follow them, nothing so those curves must follow them at the speed And what you create is a wave literally in and the curves you fall along as the objects So, in this cartoon due to LIGO--courtesy follow the object. And if I have two objects moving, they create Those are the gravitational waves that LIGO They're literally curves in the shape of If you were floating freely near the two black you would kind of bob on the wave like something And it would be darkness, completely darkness, Now, we'll talk about what was exactly detected So, here's how LIGO works, this crazy idea--imagine Ray Weiss is a young professor at MIT. He's working on other projects, but he has this mad idea to measure these that people don't even know are real. People don't even think black holes are Black holes are crucial for the conversation can ring spacetime loud enough for anybody So, you need something like the intensity which as they orbit each other are like mallets And they will literally ring spacetime, emanating while we wait to receive them here on earth. Now, Ray's idea was kind of like in this Imagine spacetime is changing shape where If you hang mirrors at the end points of this and you bounce light along the L-shaped instrument, because it will have traveled different lengths And in that way, you could record basically In some ways, LIGO is like the body of an guitar string. If you pluck an electric guitar, it technically You attach it to the body of the electric and plays it back through an amplifier. This is how LIGO works. It's like a giant musical instrument. As the mirrors bob on the wave, LIGO records the shape of the bobbing and speaker system. Bear in mind that these are billion-dollar and now a team of nearly 1,000 people work That they span four kilometers. When the light is going down the arms, each And there's two of these machines: one on and one in Hanford, Washington. So, when the experimentalists are in the control detector. Let's take a look at the real LIGO. This is the real LIGO. So, here are the long arms of the instrument. This must be Hanford. You can tell Louisiana because there are swamps I swear, swamps. There's Louisiana, and there are alligators No one knows how the bass got there. So, you see these four-kilometer-long arms. We're about to go into a cartoon where we're inside the tunnel. There's a laser that's shot down this and the light has to travel the four kilometers. It's a powerful laser. This is a vacuum inside here. That vacuum represents the largest holes in There's less stuff in the LIGO arms than And these are the beer chambers, as they're There's not actually beer in them, but there are the instruments, the mirrors, the suspension systems. And this is what the instrument sounds like [audio plays] It just sounds like noise. It sounds like noise unless a signal hits. So, there is one instrument on the Gulf Coast, And if something happens in the universe--some these waves will travel and they'll travel And they'll strike the instruments, the That's the aspiration. Now, in the year 2000 the first LIGO instrument and heard nothing. So, this was an incredibly successful technological And the skies were silent. And they needed to build an advanced machine, The Hanford machine is on the same site as that were used for the original atom bombs. And so there's security patrols that drive apparently with a poor knowledge of geography, or anything and crashed into one of the LIGO arms. Luckily, he didn't puncture the vacuum. If you ask the experimentalists what would they said we'd all go home. It's over. The vacuum was drawn in 1998 and has never The vacuum is punctured, the experiment would That would have been it. He broke his arm, but fortunately not the [Laughs] And it might have been like opening a vent I don't know how deadly it would have been It's like opening a door on the space shuttle, outside. There was also an incident in Louisiana were They said by accident, but people didn't One of the main experimentalists on the Louisiana so American. Now, all we need is a hamburger incident or But we survived all of this. The year 2015 comes. They've taken out of the beer chambers, and installed new components. They basically replaced everything but the And by 2015, the machine was operational. That year in August, Ray Weiss, who's now said to me if we don't detect black holes, If you asked anybody else on the ground when they said not until 2018, 2020. Just don't even think about it. It's not coming anytime soon. Ray was pushing, pushing for the centenary. He's like I want it, goddammit. Oh, Ray loves to swear, by the way. He loves to swear. I want it, goddammit. I want the centenary of Einstein's paper, But even he started to think, oh, it'll So, here it is, it's September 13. Ray's onsite looking for radio interference. And a lot of the experimentalists are interrupting They feel they're not ready yet. So, they decide to do tests. They're running these aggressive tests on postponing their science run. And these tests really disturbed the machine. They really basically ruin any potential for But they just didn't feel they were ready It comes early Monday morning September 14 a lot of young graduate students and post-docs morning. They get tired. They decide to go home. They put down their tools. They're done for the day. Same thing happens in Washington state. They were going to run all night, but they They leave the machines locked, though, in Within the span of an hour, this signal, which I know, it's crazy--strikes Louisiana, It's beautifully recorded. Middle of the night, nobody's awake. Nobody hears it in the control room because It's like seven or five milliseconds later. It cruises across the continent and rings and is beautifully captured there. Eight-thirty a.m., Ray wakes up and looks and thinks what the hell is going on here. What's this? And here's what they detected that morning. So, this is a computer simulation of two black the sun. One was a little bit bigger than that. So, they were big. We were surprised how big they were. One was maybe 29, one was maybe 35 times the This is drastically slowed down, so that we But we caught the final few orbits where these which might have been orbiting for a billion are in their final few orbits. These orbits took one-fifth of a second. That's what was caught by the instrument; In that final one-fifth of a second, the ringing instrument to record. They merged. They formed one bigger black hole. It's about 62 times the mass of the sun. It very quickly sheds off its imperfections I think we have to see that again because No telescope could see this event. It happened in utter darkness. And, again, it's drastically slowed down. This means that the original LIGO instrument waves passing over them when the black holes were but it was too quiet to detect. It was only the final fifth of a second that what LIGO measured was a deviation in the of less than 1/10,000 of the width of a proton. And it was not until they could do that that So, there it is, that stunning result. So, now what you should be listening to-- I'm going to play you two different things. What you should be listening to when you're you should be thinking, oh, it's like ringing And the LIGO instrument's like a musical the ringing drum and that's why we're listening to it, And also you should be listening for the sweep The reason why it sweeps up is because the closer together. And so the ringing sweeps up in pitch. And we're going to listen to two different Because on December 22 there was a second Boxing Day. Two smaller black holes. And so we're going to listen to the Boxing from September 14. And then we're going to hear them again And the reason we do that is because the human So, here we go. The low notes are particularly bad on a computer. [audio plays] So is it going again? Oh here we go, increased pitch. [audio plays] Who thought black holes would sound like that? [laughs] It's not what you expect. But it'll be your ring tone any day now. So, when you think about how remarkable that These black holes came from somewhere in the Right now, they formed a big black hole that's We cannot see it with a telescope. We cannot find it with a telescope and we And it's out there moving away from us with And when we start to ask ourselves how many once LIGO's operational all the time, we're monthly, and now many neutron stars, other dead stars. Maybe stellar explosions. Maybe other kinds of collisions. But out here, this was the Hubble deep field. Again, every one of those objects is a real And this is a patch of sky about a tenth of And this is how many galaxies we see. In every one of these galaxies there might There's a supermassive black hole, millions in probably every one of those galaxies. And so we're looking for those future--not of space, but maybe something we haven't even thought I mean, that's what we're all really after Scientists love nothing more than the unexpected. Being confirmed right after $1 billion is [Laughs] But with the first LIGO detection we already Those black holes were huge. We have never detected two black holes. We've never detected black holes that were We've never detected gravitational waves. So, it was like a clean sweep. But what we're looking forward to ultimately when you think about where we're going--as It's going to take a very, very, very long but eventually everything that can will fall Eventually, all of those black holes will they'll evaporate into radiation. And the universe will expand and it will go which is why a friend of mine says we have [Laughs] But I think what we have to look forward to and really what we're all hoping for--LIGO I've got to check in, to do more detections--is when we've done astronomy, which is something totally unexpected. Thank you.