- Today I want to share with you a no-knead soaked flour bread recipe. Now, if you like to bake with whole wheat, but you also want to be able to deactivate some of the phytic acid, but you don't want to and then make sourdough bread, this soaked flour recipe is for you. (upbeat music) Hi, sweet friends. I'm Mary, and welcome to Mary's Nest, where I teach traditional cooking skills for making nutrient-dense foods like bone broth, ferment, So if you enjoy learning in the kitchen, consider And don't forget to click on the little notification bell below. That'll let you know every The first thing I want to say is if at any time you want I'll have detailed timestamps and in the pinned comment I'll also have a link that'll over on my website, Mary's Nest, same name as my YouTube channel. And another thing I want to is that whenever I share a recipe for baking with whole grains, I do like to take a little bit of time to talk to the beginner and why we're soaking flour, So thank you for indulging me, but know that I have so you can jump ahead where we get right into baking the bread. This is a very easy bread to make, and we're going to be And I highly recommend rather than trying to because, I think, you're going to really And secondly, even if you have a lot of the second loaf will freeze very well. And I'll give directions on freezing that once we have the bread baked. Now, the ingredients to make this bread are very straightforward. The first thing that you're going to need are six cups of a whole-grain flour, and I'm going to talk about the flour in a little more detail in a minute. The next thing you're going to need are approximately six cups of liquid. Now I'm going to be using and probably about five cups of water. If you don't have buttermilk, You can use kefir or kefir, You can also use regular milk in which you put a little bit or if you want to keep you can just use water in which you put a little bit of vinegar. Now, if you do decide to use something other than buttermilk today, I will have all of the as to what the proper amount in the printable recipe Now, if you're using buttermilk you can use the low-fat buttermilk or the full-fat buttermilk. Either one will do. And if you want to know how to from the liquid that's left and culture it, and make cultured butter, I have a very detailed video on that, and I'll be sure to link and in the pinned comment if that's something that The only other ingredients are 2 1/2 teaspoons of salt, and I just have a fine And 2 1/4 teaspoons of yeast. This is packaged yeast. If you have the little packages, that's exactly the right amount, 2 1/4 teaspoons. If you're measuring it out, if you have a larger package of yeast. Now, can you use active yeast? Yes. Can you use instant yeast? Yes. Either one will do. The only real difference is that the instant yeast in terms of the warmth of the Active yeast can handle up to whereas the instant yeast can handle up to about 130 degrees Fahrenheit, and instant yeast doesn't It was invented, if that's the right word, basically to be used in bread machines. But today, people doing will use instant yeast. And that's exactly what I have And the final ingredient of some type of whole sweetener. Now this is optional if you want to keep your However, whenever you're they can tend to be a little more bitter than if you're just using where all the bran and the Often at the grocery store, you may see 100% whole wheat and they've added a little sweetener, and that's because it does make the taste of the bread better and more palatable. And we're just going to but this is optional, But what I've got here are three You can certainly use honey if you wish, and it can just be a very It doesn't need to be because we are going to be heating it. And when it does come to heating honey, I prefer to reserve it for those but everybody has So I'm going to go ahead You could also use a dry or you may know it is rapadura, it's the unrefined sugar cane. And that is definitely an option. You could use coconut sugar. For other liquid sweeteners, you could certainly use coconut syrup. It really is all going to depend where you are on your leaving your processed kitchen behind, your processed foods and moving towards a where you're using more whole sweeteners as opposed to white sugar. So most people have honey, and but if you're a little and you have some various that you like to use, by all Now, the reason that or kefir, or kefir, or some sort of acidulated milk or water is because we are going that we use overnight. And the reason we're soaking this flour, this whole grain flour in is because we want to deactivate And why do we want to deactivate And the reason is, is because phytic acid has Now, phytic acid also has a good side, which we'll talk about in a minute, but let's talk about the These antinutrients prevent from absorbing all of the nutrition that the grain has to offer. Antinutrients also can out of our digestive system. So we want to deactivate so that we hold on to the various vitamins and minerals in our food so Now, you're not going all of the antinutrients but that's not a bad thing phytic acid also has a good side. Phytic acid can also And antioxidants are things And what is oxidation? So on the one hand, we're deactivating some which will help us better that the wheat has to offer as well as prevent it stripping too many other nutrients out of our body. And at the same time, we'll get the benefits of the antioxidants that phytic acid offers so that it can help tamp down oxidation or damage that takes place in our bodies. So when you soak whole in some sort of acidulated liquid for anywhere from say 12 to 24 hours, you start to deactivate So if you like to eat or whole grain bread, deactivating some of that phytic acid is a very good step to take. So if you like to eat or you like to eat a lot it's great to learn how to soak your flour and then proceed with using Now, I've already showed and today we're going And this is especially helpful if you're not in the habit of and making sourdough bread, because that process, in essence also helps to But I know that keeping and baking sourdough bread So simply soaking your and then using it to proceed to make muffins or a quick bread, or in our case today, a yeasted bread, solves And even if you are in the habit of keeping a sourdough starter learning how to soak whole grain flour can come in very handy when you do want to make Now, when it comes to choosing you can use just your modern day whole wheat flour that's generally ground that you'll find at your grocery store. You can use whole grain whatever type of flour, whole you can use this recipe for Now, if you have whole grain and you like to grind you can definitely use Either way will work. And you don't have to be too concerned about the flour-to-liquid ratio as you do when you're making whether you're using store-bought flour or whether you're using And then also slightly more of what type of flour you're using, whether it's spelt or einkorn and so on and so forth. If that's something that you're interested in learning about, I have a very detailed all of the various depending on what type and I'll be sure to link Now, one thing I want to mention about using whole grain flour. If you've been with me a while, you know that I often will recommend mixing in a little all-purpose flour or a little bit of bread flour just to help lighten the loaf. And if you're grinding your grain and creating fresh milled flour, I often recommend sifting out a little bit of the bran and the germ. Now, this is not something because you're going to actually really helps lighten and create a relatively light But if it's something that to maybe really lighten everything up, then that's a good step to take. And really you're looking of all-purpose or bread flour substituted for one of the cups of And when it comes to sifting out some of the bran and the germ, you can kind of just maybe a little less than a quarter or so of the bran and the germ. It's not an exact science. And I never want you to because you still have a lot from the whole grain And this is a practice that dates back hundreds maybe even farther. And it was very common in the Middle Ages where bakers would sift out because they knew that it and a more digestible loaf. But the good news is, as I said, we are going to be soaking this overnight in an acidulated liquid, and that does create a than you may be familiar with if you tend to bake with whole grain flour but you're not soaking it. Now, I'm going to grind my whole grain, and what I've got here However, what I've got soaking back there, that's been soaking for about 18 hours, is just regular whole wheat that I've soaked in water and buttermilk. And the reason that I'm is because I want to and show you what a bread looks like if you're just using whole wheat flour from the grocery store, since But I did want to show you that and grind it into flour Now, if you are grinding and you're relatively new to this, the general rule is that approximately will give you approximately Now, there are variations because different types of The ancient grains tend with einkorn being the smallest. And then you have Kamut, that's And then you have the that tend to be larger than, especially einkorn. So there is a little variation, Any extra flour you have that you're not going to use can easily be tucked into your freezer and used when you're Now I want to mention, because I get a lot of this is a Mockmill, and I the Mockmill 100. It's perfect for my family size, and I've been very happy with it. It's a stone grinding mill, so it's very protective of the oils that are naturally occurring in grain. And the folks at Mockmill I've purchased this after but I've been so happy with and asked them if they for my viewers, and they So if you're ever in the and you do your research and you decide you want a Mockmill, be sure to check that code, which I'll put a link to my shopping guide in the description below so that you can take advantage of that. Now, with my Mockmill, when I grind my grain I like to set it on five because I generally do of the bran and the germ. Not a lot, but just a little bit. And I find that on number that works for pretty yet coarse enough that I'm some of the bran and the germ. But as you see, it goes from one to 10 so you can make your flour as Alrighty, well, let's go (grinder whirring) Well, I've got my spelt all Now, I just want to take a second to talk to you about the sifters. Now these are more along the lines of the professional baking sifters, and then this is just a fine mesh strainer that you would drain food in. This is often what I use. But I just wanted to mention that this is, I believe this one is a 40, and I believe this one is a 50 or a 60. And the number, the higher the number, so you're going to sift And the lower the number, so you're going to sift And these are available pretty if that's something that where you want to seriously to create something close And I have videos, a number of videos where I show you how to do all of that, and I'll definitely link to those below if that's something that However, when it comes to where I just want to sift out a little bit of the bran and the germ, I just use a fine mesh kitchen strainer. And I just wanted to mention, in case you don't have one near you, online stores like I do believe that sometimes and if I can find some, I will put them in the link But I just want to verify that they're not expensive, but the ones sold from or King Arthur Flour, that's where I got, either these came from Breadtopia or King Arthur Flour, I can't remember. They're very nice quality. And so that's something that, definitely check that out. Now I'm going to measure and probably just for I'll sift out a little bit Don't worry if you're and so you're not going you might wind up having than I'm going to have with this batch, although, as I said, that which is what we're going to bake, was done with store-bought flour. But if you are grinding and you're going to sift out a little, don't worry about it not being perfect in terms of the full six cups. A lot of this is very flexible because it's going to be dependent on how much liquid we And I'm going to show that you're looking for. Now, alternatively, if you don't want to go you can just go ahead, and then one cup of all-purpose or bread flour that you have. And it's okay that you're adding it in either before or after the soak, which we'll talk about in a little bit. If you ever find you need more flour because your batter is you just want to use that's already had the bran so it doesn't need soaking, but that is something But I just wanted to show you this step so that if this is something that you're interested in doing, you can see what it looks like. And as I go ahead and sift this, and then I get down to I'll show you what it looks like. Now, do you discard that? No, definitely don't. Save it for when you're or bran muffins or just using in your Dutch oven or on your baking stone when you're baking a boule. As you'll see, the fine mesh strainer just takes out a little bit And then I'm just going to go ahead and transfer that to a So that's one cup of flour. And now, actually, I I'll use this other sifter so that you can see the difference. And this is the the less-fine mesh. So this would sift out less bran and germ than this tighter mesh would. And again, it's just where you just gently shake this. I always feel like a prospector, like I'm looking for gold. (laughs) But we'll get this flour down, and then I'll show you how Now you'll see, you do get a bit more if you use the baker sifter. And this probably would measure up maybe about an 1/8 of where this is really, you know, would be measured in teaspoons. And this, again, is just that most kitchens have. And this is using the baker sifter. So I just wanted to show so that you could be aware of it, but don't feel any obligation to do that when you're doing a soaked flour bread because the soaking process is going to lighten So that was my third cup of flour, and now I'm going to go ahead and add in my fourth cup of flour. Now, does fresh milled flour than the flour from the store? Yes, all of these things do play a role when you're making a more exacting bread, and that's why I have on how to take all of However, since this is a very forgiving, very easy to make bread, we Well, now I've got my six cups of whole grain spelt flour in my bowl, little bit of the bran and but that wont matter any in and how much liquid we use because we're looking more, not so much for being as we are for a particular texture. And I'll explain as we Now, I just want to get If you're not using buttermilk and you're using kefir, or kefir, you can go ahead and If you're not using either of those and you're just want to use water, you can go ahead and add a to your water to acidulate that. And then go ahead and to mix in nicely like this. Or if you want to use milk, add a little bit of That will work also. And as I mentioned earlier, I'll have all the exact measurements so you can be very secure when Now, I'm just going to start. I'm going to pour my water in here just to help rinse out this cup a little and get every little last bit, every little last bit of And so this would count as So you'll see as you add that the dough is starting to become, you know, a little more dense, a little more coming together. But what we're looking for that looks very much like a batter, because no-knead breads that are baked in loaf pans on the old fashioned batter breads. Once packaged yeast came into existence and homemakers started they were often very busy and with all the kneading necessary And they found that if they and had a little looser dough, they could basically just and let it rise, and and get ready to bake it. And life became quite a bit easier. So that is the popularity And if you make my sandwich bread, that I know you have told me that you've been very happy with, that is also based on a So that's why we're going to be, that's why what's more important here in terms of trying to be exact in terms of measurement for liquid 'cause every kitchen is different. The weather outside is different. It's going to be more looking And that's what I'm going to show you. So now we'll go ahead and in my case water, (chuckles) and we'll go ahead and mix this in. And little by little, you're going to find this to a batter. So you'll see this is more looking like a batter Now, let's put in our fourth cup. Now, I'm just going to work this in until the flour absorbs all of this water, and we'll see how the batter looks. Now, we are going to hold back We're not going to put And again, you know, this We're going to just watch this until we get the right consistency, and don't worry, I'm because we want to have for the next day after we've let this soak to add the water that Well, this is coming along very nicely. Now, I don't want you to worry if it looks all lumpy and whatnot, all of that will dissipate but this is coming along very nicely. We want it a little looser than because all of that whole grain, whatever type of whole grain you're using, is going to really absorb this liquid. So let's go ahead. Let me If not, I'll go get some more water. I do like to use some when doing this, only because whenever you're soaking anything, it's also the same with making The simpler the water, so to speak, the less chemicals it has in it, the better the whole soaking process or fermentation process will go because the chemicals tend and either the fermentation or the deactivation of the phytic acid, and so on and so forth. Having a more pure water Okay, now I'm going to go And I know from experience that that's going to look perfect, but I'll mix it up and and we'll hold off on the sixth cup because that's what we'll add tomorrow. So this is the exact batter And you might be saying, &quot;Wow, but you got to trust me on this. It's going to be absolutely fine. To begin with, it's going to and about five cups of water. And that should get you pretty darn close to the exact texture before you put this, in essence, Now, all you need to with some plastic wrap and put this either on your wherever you're most And you can leave it to soak The longer soak will create Well, I'm going to put this aside now, and I'm going to get the Well, here is our flour This has soaked, probably Now, as you'll see, the change in consistency It's much more stringy and So this is exactly what it'll look like. And it's actually quite similar. There isn't a lot of variation, whether you go the 12 or 24 But this is what you're going to find after that soak of the six cups of flour and the five cups of liquid. Now what I've got here is and I'm going to add And then I'm going to go And I'm just going to give Now I'm going to go ahead and add our mixture right into our batter. You just want to keep until your dough returns back There we go. This is looking really good. You just want to make sure that Alrighty, now we've got that Now we'll go ahead and and then mix that in. And that's our last step and let it rise. Well, I've got the salt mixed in. Our batter looks perfect. What we're going to do now is or if you want to use a flour just dust it with a little And we're going to let this just on your kitchen counter is fine. We're going to let this if we use the instant yeast, which I used, or if you've used the active dry yeast, you'll probably want to let this rest for an hour and three quarters Well, I let this rest Now, I'm just going to just to get it down from the sides and get everything moved And you'll see it's got but very batter-like, like we're going to make a cake. Next, you're going to need And in each, you want to put maybe about I'm not really measuring it, but we need a fairly good amount 'cause we have to grease Now if you're trying you could use coconut oil or any type of other oil that you want, that is, what would you say, has a smoke point of 350 or lower, because we're going to bake these breads at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. So just really give your loaf pans a really good greasing up. And don't worry if you have, like, a little bit of chunks I'll show you what mine It doesn't matter, but you just want to make sure that everything is very That is a really well-greased loaf pan. Now all we're going to do between these two loaf pans. Alrighty, we'll pour a little bit in here, kind of like when we're doing a cake. Now I'm just going to pour in this second to this second pan. I'm trying to eyeball it best I can. Okay, I think we're going to need, we're going to go back and forth a little, get a little more over here, and then I'll just keep eyeballing it until I or, I should say even, Now we're just going to let these rest, and we're going to preheat our Now my oven just beeped and came up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, so we'll just let that nice and warm. And I just want to take a minute to talk about our batter breads at this stage in their loaf pans. Now, I did get a little more batter in this one than this one, but it won't matter in any event. The reason that we did not cover these while we were waiting for was because it's very important that we don't let these than the rim of these loaf pans. If they were to rise up the way a traditional and kind of dome up nicely is because if you let that happen, first of all, with a batter and it may just wind up pouring over. But also, even if it were to rise up and maybe even make a in this particular recipe soaked the bread, soak what can happen is that your So to keep your bread light, that it doesn't rise past Well, these look great, so I'm going to go ahead Middle rack at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Well, I had these loaves in my oven for approximately 40 minutes on the middle rack. Now, at 30 minutes, I started because I wanted to make sure that they weren't over browning. I have a very small oven, and so I've got to kind of be careful that my breads don't over brown. And if they were over browning, then I was just going But they were doing just That was at 30 minutes. I let them go the additional and I think they look glorious. So plan to bake these for 40 minutes, but keep an eye on them just to make sure that they're Now I want to mention one extra step that you can do at this point. If you like a bread that if you do, then take a and just rub it across the top. You can also sprinkle it with But just taking a small rubbing it across the rub it across the top of the other bread, that will make the top crust be very soft. I'm not going to rub the butter on top because I like to have or a little bit of a crunch Now these are warm, but because once you find that, or whatever the case may be, that you're able to handle these, then you want to go ahead and And you'll see these just And I don't know if this'll but the way that you can is when you tap on the bottom. (bread thumping) Can you hear that? (bread thumping) Almost sounds like a hollow drum. That's the sound that you're looking for (bread thumping) and you know that it's baked inside. Now, the secret to these breads, but you do need to let these cool. They don't have to get cold, you can enjoy them slightly warm, but you don't want to slice So we're going to let these cool, and then we will slice into them, and I'll show you how the crumb looks. Well, this has cooled off a bit, still a little on the warm side, but let's go ahead and slice into it. I think it's going to be glorious. (bread crunching) Oh, listen to that. (bread crunching) Oh, look at this beautiful bread. Well, I am just so pleased with and I'll bring you in so you can see all the not the least bit dense. And if you've ever had or English muffin bread, because this is basically that's also been soaked, so it should be more digestible as well. So you can eat this as is or toast it, any way that you like. Now, I think what we need with a little bit of butter and see what we think of this. Oh, I think it's going This butter is nice and soft. Yeah, all those, oh, I just I can't wait to try it toasted, too. Let me try this end with the top crust. (yummy sounds) This bread is so delicious, and the soaking along with just gives it such a lovely flavor. Well, now if you'd like to yeasted breads, soaked sourdough, cookies, everything, be sure to click on this video over here, where I have a full playlist And I'll see you over there in my Texas Hill Country kitchen. Love and God bless.