Hey everyone, as most of you are aware, the that absolute dumbest of all hoaxes in human me into an interaction, I made this gem that's and the rest is history. Well everything in the most hilarious way due to a recent On February 13th of this year, a rather on a channel called The Final Experiment. another dumb flat earther, huh? Well over the second video summarized some past experiments, named D. Marble who tried to debunk the demonstrating simultaneously that he doesn't know If we're living on a spinning ball or a globe equator, according to the curvature math then forward in order to compensate for the curvature. for the tenth time so just go watch my debunk what you're looking for, since that's the crap got a bit more specific, inviting some people Ok, 48 people! Who are they? Hey it's debate that one time. What's he saying? higher land that surrounds it. The higher are surrounded by water, but all of the water not an island at the bottom of the ball. ice wall that surrounds the whole world! Yeah, very dumb things they say, which will be the SciManDan. Then it's Eric Dubay, the idiot I who by the way really hates Jews a lot. Hitler was cool and not a bad guy. Talmudic Jews But let's continue. Hey look, it's me! didn't I? Then it's Jeran from the Globebusters, you've all seen. And it continues like this, like Austin Whitsitt, who I also humiliated a lot of these guys. Quick aside on Austin, he's I obliterated him with my very first point on Here's his pathetic mischaracterization of our This one from Alex, says Whitsitt, have at all after getting destroyed by It's such a cope. I hope people just go watch watch. So you see how this is turning one way? opposite way. Right? He said that wasn't true. see it from the opposite, if you're outside the if a bicycle spins and you're in a garage on both even though it's... he said that wasn't true. now was it? I said in the northern hemisphere celestial pole and in the southern hemisphere celestial pole. Why would the sky rotate in standing? He said that in the north all you other way. To which I responded, put a clock on to make the hands go counterclockwise, Explain the observations of the celestial sphere. in the south you get clockwise rotation. Explain Yeah so the counterclockwise and it's based on looking different direction. a singular point is what you're trying to say. Just looking opposite directions would Would it though? Would it though? If you put on your ceiling, which way can you face to make Not analogous. The stars drop. the hands on a clock go clockwise. He just crapped his pants and said the word pretending this is solved by "being on the as though you can get to the other side of the instead of the thing we were actually even tell the difference between clockwise Which way is this turning? Which way I don't know. Which way is it going? Who cares? Astounding. Anyway, more on Austin Witless to a bunch of other flat earthers I've so let's move on to the next video, which These two locations hold inherent significance Antarctica is the elevated outer rim encompassing That's right, you heard neo-Nazi Eric Dubay, door vacuum cleaner salesman Dave Weiss a bit think it's this huge dumb ring. They can't both be right, so let's go there and right? You're interested in truth, right? to Antarctica, that is a celestial thing that touch it and have empirical verification of it. So exploration of the realm, especially Antarctica. realm and go to Antarctica! Well that's great mean in the past I've outlined many things we can such as circumnavigating it in a boat, a thing race every year, where they constantly turn which already proves it's not a giant ice right? Anything flat earthers don't like is Something I've also been telling them Everything about it demolishes them so they you can get jobs at the south pole, you can, Antarctica, some guy did it by himself a couple go to Antarctica. Well yes you can. No you can't. should go. You could make videos about it. And for going to Antarctica, and we're gonna go, and and we're gonna show them that we're not Well it sounds like flat earthers are finally do when they get there? The next video It's true, this is another thing I've brought up in the Southern hemisphere. They like to show which should leave most of Antarctica all the totally dark most of the day. And yet, at the every year. Flat earthers always complain that is a lie anyway, but that's why I brought up where people live and anyone can go. They wouldn't to go to Antarctica, and see the real deal! spherical or not, go to Antarctica you can watch the sun for 24 hours. but they hide this from us too. All we'd have to to Antarctica, spend a week there in the summer, all the way around us. If so, it's a ball. can't be 24 hours of daylight while the sun does There is no way light could reach the other end experience 24 hour night. And no, their dumb middle school science fair demonstration, they use glass. Also, there is no dome. 24 hour daylight can see the sun or not, but especially if you On a globe it makes perfect sense due to the tilt of Earth's orbit, the most southernly latitudes rotates. That's why the sun never sets. Easy the sun were to set during that time, that would people are stationed there doing research, and so we know there's a 24 hour sun. But to flat In order to fit the heliocentric globe model, for observers south of the Antarctic circle south the observer is, the sun should be seen just like it does in the north. In reality anywhere in Antarctica, at any time of year. and now it's time for you and your idiot government NASA Jew penguins be damned! or trying to prove it's flat. Should be very have a 24 hour sun in the southern summer. That That's quite different from the flat earth model and since Antarctica is around the outside, At least not around you at the bottom continent. if you see the sun in the sky for 24 hours that's earth explain that, but that's not what happens. a flat earth you can't have a 24 hour sun, a But there is no midnight sun in Antarctica. a 24 hour sun in the south. And there isn't. that for the most part, these buffoons are all debunks the flat earth, and aww shucks gee person government won't let us go down there them all in the ass as you'll see a bit later. released, the person making them was emailing including me. And I'll be honest, I didn't know some random flat earther and therefore a scam in went about my business. But then in the next video I'm Will Duffy, and I pastor a small church of my deep thinking. And I decided on that to settle this debate. This would be the final But there is no midnight sun in Antarctica. But most importantly, Dave Weiss made me realize the final experiment is that both sides agree. I the final experiment because I can't prove it. Side by side. With an agreement ahead of time that be. And what it means depending on which one we one person from each side to go to Antarctica back on what they've been saying all along. If what they've been saying to their followers. pay for a flat earther to go to Antarctica! And so I'm sure they'll be lining up to right? I mean of course they would, why would they a free trip to Antarctica? I mean that would be lying frauds, right? And flat earthers are so I am 100% positive that all of them will Well we are now in the month of May in our poll to see which flat earther should get the Weiss! Oh my goodness! He's gonna be so excited! on X asking people if they thought Dave Weiss as you can see, the results were very similar almost a thousand votes combined between YouTube 92% of people on X believe that Dave Weiss For shame. You guys are totally out said he would go to Antarctica and he is Dave Weiss have been in communication and he has whatever you guys all knew, all of you who voted going to be speculation as to why he said no, so I'm just going to tell you and show you here he's unwilling to go to Antarctica. Here's what this. As I said before, I want nothing to do with you at all, the people you hang with are demons Now that is shocking. Who would think that a guy money on the internet would decline an opportunity hey, at least he had a good reason. I mean wanna mess with demons which again, are a real home I guess. So where do we go from here? person in line, who is Jeran Campanella. you may remember as the Globebuster who to them. That's an achievement, I guess. the normal person who would go, and that So we ran this poll right here on YouTube, and the voting wasn't even close. As I guess this Dave isn't afraid of demons. representative is locked in. Now back to Jeran. that I will cover all of his expenses for our to be additional expenses like flying to South before the flight to Antarctica. Jeran thinks that 45,000 dollars. I don't think they'll go that I will cover all your expenses. I believe you're any winter clothing. That will be required even if it goes all the way up to 45,000 dollars. private jet to get to South America and Pretty freaking ridiculous, and a very obvious an unreasonable number that nobody in their Will delivers! Now what? Oh yeah, Jeran can whine But I wouldn't accept it yet because of the fact wanna stay in a tent with Dave McKeegan, that flat earther that you were to select that you were request to stay in the same sense. So now I'm But I'm ready to commit to pay You're ready to commit. earther. That's right. Will is just coming through like a champion! Need utilize the buddy system? No problem! Will agrees What else could these tools whine about? emails from flat earthers stating that we are actually in Antarctica this December. just say it's Antarctica but in actuality that is somehow right on the south This is where the trip will begin. So we are going then this star here is Punta Arenas, Chile, we are going to be taking a flight from Punta flight, in order to get to Antarctica. So my we know we will be in Antarctica, or how we is to explain to me where we can get to on a Not much else needs to be said here, there is and there's nowhere they can get to other than of South America. This is the most pathetic excuse on the other hand, went on the record saying during their stay, that he would delete If the sun sets or if it stays north within earth is flat. I will upload a video to my both of my channels saying the earth is flat. His website has a list of similar And why don't I add myself to this list! My plucky December and the sun sets, I will delete all will upload a video saying that the Earth is flat Don't you wanna see evil Professor Dave admit But no, the excuses just kept coming. It was losing their minds as they desperately scrambled to avoid going. Here's a flat earther Austin is a shill. He has been shill all unalived to dead in Antarctica, he comes back That's right, Austin was a shill all along they're already pre-emptively throwing these guys going to see the 24 hour sun if they can find the them shills and casting them out of the flat their stupidity unphased. Immaculate. Other flat admission that a 24 hour sun in Antarctica debunks themselves for half an hour at a whiteboard. hermaphrodite, that's the only time they is through the solar eclipse. It's when the Cutting edge science you have you've been studying under Terrance Howard. is being reproduced. There's a sexual mating. you on Patreon right away. Other flat earthers simulator in the sky to trick the flat earthers. Let's go look at it. Look at that. So they're European Space Agency solar simulator. Are you it. I'm seeing it. Ok? This is their solar... Yes, a sun simulator. Hey... sun simulator, that's project that everyone should go check out It knows your face and what you wanna Will be lost in time! Sorry, I couldn't resist. Anyway, if these boners sky, they can just bring a telescope with a solar same sun everyone else on Earth is seeing. They sunspots and comparing them to observations they're seeing the same sunspots. They can record latitude, just like how the orientation of the make a prediction and either verify or falsify regarding what qualifies as an experiment. no real interest in doing science. Then in July is that? I didn't know either. But it's this guy. and I have a little presentation for you Prime time 99, on the ground all Sick track, bro. What is it with flat earthers and earther, and alt-right beanie baby Tim Pool agreed If you wanna go on an expedition That's not true. from that you can't go to Antarctica? independent exploration. So if I go to Let's fund it. do it. There's actually people who are trying You, we'll send you. We got the money. international space station as well. get you to traverse Antarctica. That's it? Let's do it. Done. It's a rare day when someone can make walking made it happen, and you can see how sheepish throws out some huge number to sabotage his own anyway. He's been dead silent on this matter since Tim was right, anyone can traverse and several have even done it by themselves. explore Antarctica is completely full of shit. were panicking and pleading with Jeran is for all of them to just ignore all of and continue spewing the same dumb script forever. they're gonna do two brandings. One is gonna flip it to the midnight sun. And then they're the sun at midnight. And then when you don't well it was a midnight sun. They're gonna Yeah, you're totally right, young ZZ Top. room the entire time and only go outside definitely not going to look at the sky for 24 there to do. And of course most of the others just And I'm hoping somebody as smart as Jeran. He's bitch. If anybody goes there I hope they're to figure out, hmmm! Maybe that's not the actual if they're having a sun simulator, there's Now I know what you're thinking, here's a guy suns in the sky, a thing we've totally all nailing it. But some other moments in this And I'm going to do, actually I should do this oh wait, I think I hear the trumpets. Just that the firmament, is that the trumpets? Hmm. they were supposed to come around early tonight, I genuinely couldn't write a monologue this Oh let's pick a specific day, ok. Whatever. the day Christmas week of the week of not December 27th? Why not those? Why not do three or four or five days? Hmmm! Interesting! permanently move to the South Pole? Because I've subjected you to enough of that. And anyway neo-Nazi Eric Dubay! After five months he So what is Will's brilliant idea? What is his skepticism? Invite 12 flat earth YouTubers and 12 to see if there's a midnight sun. In other words, even a demonstration. But merely an observation. Will is conflating a celestial observation with the motion of a light in the sky overhead somehow It's not a flat earth video without reason and whining about observations of the The only reason this straw man argument even suspicious shilly so-called flat earthers who agents, like Jeran from Jeranism, have sun in Antarctica somehow does prove the globe. be on the same dumb team! Of course this pageantry examples of Eric singing a very different tune Um, well why can't I, similar to Antarctica, just telling me, oh it's a globe, it's a fall off because of gravity, you're good, don't Excluding overpriced chaperoned penguin nobody is allowed to set foot in Antarctica, should supposedly be constant 24 hour sunlight. In anywhere in Antarctica, at any time of year. in Antarctica, because even when the sun reaches the entirety of the Antarctic circumference time. And so it will still set every day. Eric. Don't you think it would be a good idea many times you're dying to do? And which you for you to go? Oh right, if you did the thing you'd just be a big shill like Jeran! doesn't matter if there's a 24 hour sun So I'd like to think if you're here watching this are a truth seeker you shouldn't appreciate other telling you that the 24 hour sun in Antarctica it's impossible on our mother fucking model. for displaying a modicum of integrity here, the grift and sees this as a way to jump ship humans. But either way, we can at least say that in his camp. He's the only one who is remaining them have specifically expressed for years. let's me and you go to Antarctica, spend a week a 360 degree circle all the way around us, if so then leaves that way, then it's not. So then why can't we go and Let's just see if they'll let us. into it. They'll absolutely let us. They will absolutely let us. I was shocked. This was the exact same thing that excitement wasn't just during the debate. Check after the debate. He said let's settle this whole Let's settle it once and for all! But no will be settled and we will have to all admit The same Robot Polisher guy, who stood with Dean the flat earth debate, then posted this tweet a it to the globies to come up with the brilliant to look at the sky in order to determine the idea and you wanted to do it. What changed? in a cartoon, and we should all treat them as a transparent and toxic manner should never be that anyone takes flat earthers seriously in the with their time and flying to Antarctica like You do the globie pokey and you turn If Dubay's jew-hating wasn't enough for you, I suppose. Also, call me pedantic, but you can the guy who made this is the same idiot who specifically as a response to being called out for moving along in the timeline, we arrive point with who's going on the trip? a pattern emerging. The colors quickly show all you have there are people who have agreed to or who are crowd funding to go to Antarctica. Now is getting quite long. On the flat earth side or free trips being offered to them that are all they have to do is accept it. All they have to get to go to Antarctica without spending a dime. none of the flat earthers have formally accepted in for people willing to pay for specific probably the most obnoxious of all of these stupid and also a child abuser. Anything that's moving with Nathan, question. You ready? How do I dunno, how do you convert What's the correct way? The correct way is divide meters So if you have a meter, and I divide that that would give you millimeters? You just said you divide meters by a thousand something that is one meter long by one thousand, Nathan, Nathan. quite literally retarded with that statement. You Hard to believe that's a real person, character, huh? Anyway, what reason could But he said he doesn't wanna go with us experiment is not an experiment, but is and he doesn't wanna participate in fraud. Don't Now he's invited me to go along, and I'm saying I the consequent with a pseudoscience fraud. And I've called him a fraud. Because he is, you're a fraud. You wanna know why I won't go Because I don't associate with frauds. Why is Well that doesn't reek of desperation has gone on the record saying this. it would necessitate having a 24 hour sun in the 24 hour sun in the south, uh the north, we do reality of our world is that in both models flat earth model we say there isn't a 24 hour is a 24 hour sun in the north. And there is. Somebody named Robbie O'Hare asks someone, fancy that comment saying yes, I'd love to go, but previously said we need to go to Antarctica, but now that someone is willing to pay for Just like the rest of them. Including this Well Mr. Meyer is a prominent flat earther on proudly defending flat earth on Facebook for quite issued this public challenge to Volker. He offered December, and he sweetened the deal by offering dollars if there was no 24 hour sun. After I he just disappeared. Poof. Gone. No sign anywhere Shocking. Where does that put us? help bring both sides of this debate together, but themselves look bad. But turning down a trip to want to go to Antarctica, and when you've been of the earth, and Austin Whistitt saying over six Antarctica this December to see if there's a 24 actually something that will never be forgotten That's right guys, you're having your shining brave iconoclasts! Statues will be torn fast. It sounds like Jeran and Austin are So I met with both Jeran and Austin over zoom commitment to going. The current hold up is not from me, not from me, people have the That I am asking them to sign a contract. Nothing a contract. Let me say that again. They asked me detailed list of what they wanted in the contract, and he drafter an agreement based on their with it. And I'm a little perplexed, as they're Are you seeing a pattern of ridiculous demands continue evading a firm response? Meanwhile pants and revising their entire wordlview. What, to Antarctica? I never said I want to go to Antarctica, take two airplanes, and fly around that's a task. But I never said I want to go look that there's no circling sun in Antarctica. sets in Antarctica, the earth is not a globe. set parameters. If the sun sets the earth flat earthers can go we don't know what the hell earth, it just disproves our understanding of is. Doesn't seem fair, but that's the way it is. You have to love this moron flat out which means they have zero ability to explain something I've been telling them continually Therein lies the problem with the The fact that Weiss says this as some sort of flat earthers, however, are beginning to of this Antarctica trip. And he's just gonna have... he's just gonna have to get that, and that's gonna go, and then he's Morning America, the guy who used to think the Yeah I thought it was flat, and everybody laughed. to these nerds. I'm the guy who did it. I'm follow your king. I'm the king of the flat call me that, thank you, crown! I'm the guy. for painting his face, outer space, and the the modern day flat earth. I put that now. Yeah we're looking, buddy. Get stakes are being raised as per the participants. his name is Will Duffy. He said I heard you globe debate. I'm a pastor from Colorado final experiment. It's a trip to Antarctica this it would be really cool if you and/or if not I would be more than happy to And I'm very excited to announce that althought she is sending her director with us, and she through her director who will be her boots on whether or not there was a 24 hour sun, or if Candace of course had a viral clip where she sphere, just to appear as insane as possible, so but it's also admittedly a nice addition to the out about it. It makes it absolutely impossible they go down there, and the 24 hour sun than ever before. Then there was the guy who spinelessly turned it down. This invitation so Will took applications and chose one live. Oh my god! Oh my god thank you god! out that the golden ticket offer was from I'm embarrassed to admit that I was scammed. concerning TFE's golden ticket offer. It Not to worry, Will decided to There's a link to Lis's gofundme below. doubt we'll hit, I will announce the Super exciting update today, Lisbeth And you won't be surprised to learn that it In the meantime, the big name flat earthers, if just keep turning the trip down one recognizable name in flat earth, Mark Sargent. Sargent. I am Mark Sargent. leading voices in the flat earth movement. looks like? Pretty sure. Almost. I mean sure. But the basic concept is sound. know the truth, right? He's a real pro! down with Jeran and Whisitt. Flat earthers have. And that trip, would I go with an all dedicated round earth trolls, you know for an Ask anybody, you know it's white on white on figure that out really quick. McKeegan. My god. Awww, Mark is scared of the mean globies who prove the Earth is flat, the thing he's been I don't trust this man. already building a fire for him. and I just think flames. So, that's for you, Will. better. To wrap things up, neo-Nazi Eric Dubay Ok, with that out of the way let's talk about Eric respond to my emails, he doesn't attempt to as so many people can attest to. And so getting day I noticed he released a new video and so to comment. Here is what I said. Are you going pay for you. That of course was Mark Harmon. know the earth is flat, Will. And so do you. including you, Eric. That's why you're guy who conclusively debunked the globe. If you If the earth is flat, we can end the globe by is supposed to be a 24 hour sun. Hear me out. Jeran, Dave McKeegan, Austin Whitsitt, MC Toon, gets all their camera gear set up because they're And then the sun sets. How powerful would that own cameras and walk up to Dave McKeegan and say Toon and say where's the sun, Toon? And walk up point it out for me. Come on, where is it? I be some incredible footage to have. Don't you? this. Anyone who actually believes the Earth personally prove it and rub it in the faces of and have to react to the devastating any flat earther declining this fully funded trip And that's also the end of my summary of this big trip is less than two months away now, so about the status? Who definitely is going, who surprises or changes that we can expect as the Ok everybody we're here with Will, I've just we're here now with the architect Great. Thanks so much for having me. what's going on, I also would like to know, where not going? I think I have an idea but I'm not scenes, so fill us in in terms of that. got Jeran Campanella who runs Jeranism, and then Lisbeth Acosta. Those are the flat Antarctica. And on the globe earth side we've got all run debunking channels on YouTube, so far it's Ok. So Jeran and Austin you're paying for, and Lisbeth. ticket. And then Dave you're paying for, and or something, or they're covering themselves? shortage they have they'll pay for themselves. that Lisbeth is going because she seemed believe that Jeran and Austin are gonna go? think they'll back out at the last minute. I would put some money on that, but also, I you think, so you're down there, ok first of all, not really Antarctica, or it's a different time or terms of their ridiculous excuses and do you have Yeah so I've tried to tell the flat earthers this think that we're gonna lie, or something's gonna this doesn't happen. But they don't do that. For in Antarctica. And it's like ok, then where will or somewhere near the north pole. And it's like no sun there. So we're trying to see if there's tip of Chile, we'll be able to prove that to you there's nowhere we can be that's covered No you're using a funky globey weirdo compass. hell are you going to get to Greenland in three So what are the dates? What are the actual dates It's five days. It's December 14th actually be boots on the ground in Antarctica. the whole time. Right? Even if there's one you're definitely going to get the full 24 that of just direct visibility of the sun. What they're not just gonna stand there and go gonna be filming something, right? I'm hoping that right? Have they said anything about their plans? either invest in like a 360 degree camera move with the sun. We're hoping to do a lot of have terabytes of video when we come back. 24 hours looking at the sun. That would be the I'm just trying to, like, what are they gonna say. a way out of flat earth so they can, like Austin's maybe he'll just completely pivot and he'll go other stuff. How do you think they're gonna react, react to seeing the 24 hour sun, any idea, has A little bit, I mean I've communicated with more than Austin. Austin barely responds as they call themselves, truthers. And I sees the 24 hour sun I think he'll say hey Well I'm dubious. I dunno about this I think what probably may end up happening is earth community who will all make up any reason Dubay is already doing that. That guy is freaking what do you plan to do, obviously you're of content about it. You'll do a bunch of pieces do you have any plans for after all of this? So this has taken up way more of my time I've noticed which I think is fascinating, is that flat earth content is extremely long. trying to make sure I know what they're saying, if earth YouTube video is multiple hours long. because that's how they get their superchats terms of that, and obviously time consuming in your experience in terms, I mean obviously but in terms of interacting with flat earthers vs. Yeah, so it's been night and day different. they have told me like Will, like, we don't proven a thousand times over. But it's ok, this really just a lot of vitriol, a lot of hatred, about me, they just make stuff up about me. up. It's interesting, I mean, if I had known what those emails, I might have been more enthusiastic and I might have won the free trip, so that's my she's like you're going, what, what are you little kids. Don't go to Antarctica. But it a free trip to Antarctica. Yeah, I dunno, I can't you wanna add, or concerns or goals or things excited to go on the trip as well, right? I came up with this was because I think there debating the shape of the earth. There are valid that happened in the past, because we can't clues and put our minds together to figure it object that happens to be the largest object we something in my opinion a child should be able to hopefully have people channel their energies Yeah, well I think that you probably will get think that a good chunk will remain. But who I definitely tried. I tried my best to end it be the thing. Well anyway, I find it hilarious, hilarious it was going to be. I mean I knew but there are all those peripheral characters that thing. And I'm pretty sure my viewers found it to really interesting or unexpected happens I can about what happened down there and then talk But other than that, I think everyone wants put up a big chunk of money to hopefully quite a service so we thank you for it. And there you have it. Some people are going to already knows, and has known for 2500 years. Earth isn't flat? Will the sheep that follow them or will they make up some bullshit excuse that will finally break the back of the have my doubts, but maybe they'll surprise me. experiment. I hope you find the whole thing as so many vile dangerous charlatans in other comparison. I guess that's why I just can't quit all of this is so, so funny to me. Anyway I'll down there. See you next time. Yoga pose! Yoga pose! Yoga Yoga pose! Yoga pose! Yoga pose!