There's a moment in the game 'Viewfinder' Actually, there are lots of moments that broke But the most mind-shattering instance came photo... and walked right into it. And even though I knew this was a main component "There's no way. This game won't actually let me place a well, everything." But the game did let me, it encouraged me, tearing up the manual -- because Viewfinder Typically, fictional worlds strive for immersion: -- even if those limits are more fantastical But there's another kind of fictional world, status quo. So say goodbye to gravity, say goodbye to a voyage across realities with no restrictions... So how does one navigate a world that breaks Simple -- you break the rules right back, The world of Viewfinder consists of gravity-defying to cross. Impossible, that is, unless you line up a make your way to the other side. Confronted with a locked gate? Just hold up a photo of an open gate and... The world of Viewfinder might shatter the its own internal conventions that you can Anything in the background of a photo just it, which can allow you to access walled off And anything in the foreground becomes something you can walk through, thanks to some trick But it's not just photos that this effect You can also enter and wander through the Or explore the cartoonish landscape of a postcard, material objects. Even the scribbles of a child can become something out and touch. It's... bizarre at first. But the deeper you go into the world of Viewfinder, another way. With each new layer, the rules of traditional background, and even as some things start trapped in a dream and need to find a way (Wake up) provides safe and effective dream therapy clinic --" The entirety of the 2019 game That's not a spoiler like it would be for The fact you're in a dream is obvious. What isn't obvious is how to wake up. Like Viewfinder, Superliminal is a game that from a new perspective. In this world, if you pick up an object and with your changed viewpoint. It's a feature of the dreamscape that on completely logical. And it also works in reverse: if an object a simple perception shift. With this reality-bending ability, outsmarting But the world of Superliminal will bend reality The ultimate goal of the game is to escape door to the waking realm. Yet this is easier said than done, because One hallway that seemed to offer a way out with an exit too small to fit through. Another wasn't a hallway at all, but a camouflaged Once, the actual way forward was painted to me to stop trusting my perception altogether. These illusions are examples of anamorphosis: to occupy a specific vantage point to make Like the puzzles of Viewfinder, they require and embrace the strange new paradigm of the Indeed, many sections of Viewfinder feature Yet notably, such illusions don't just exist Painted ceilings from the 1600s create depth Those forced perspective tourist photos of category. Such illusions are simple -- even silly. Yet though often played for laughs, there optical illusions. Like having the rug of reality pulled out Many films use oversized furniture and clever of scale. It's an effect that's often meant to be technique to create a convincing fictional What's uncanny about such effects, however, within your mind. Modern cameras aren't required: these illusions world to follow certain rules, an expectation warp reality. A broken rule in a virtual dream is one thing, you questioning the waking world, wondering as they appear. In the world of Manifold Garden, the law of Floors become ceilings, stairs become bridges, just kind of... is. Created by American artist Willian Chyr, Manifold game, but the project's primary inspiration in in 1898. The drawings of MC Escher are mazes of impossibility, architecture to create landscapes that could modern programing, makes these worlds explorable. In order for this to work, the geometry of You can jump off any structure and know with to a place identical to where you started. As a result, falling -- one of the most conventional a concern here. Falling is similarly deemphasized in Viewfinder, make a mistake. This serves as a reminder that traditional on. But the lack of guidelines can also leave -- like nothing you do here has any real Navigating a world that breaks the rules can is probably most upfront about its attempts you not just by removing guidelines, but by The game will frequently demand you follow yet many signs lead nowhere, or are utterly At one point, if you trust the signs, you'll The only way to actually progress is to pick -- outwitting the dream with its own underhanded Yet Superliminal will even break conventions most players might consider a safe-zone. At different points in the game, the loading sometimes jittering backwards, folding through borders -- in one of the more literal moments in media. Even the title doesn't obey instructions, another rug-pull in a game constantly pulling It can make you feel like you're in freefall. Why don't the laws make sense? Who is in charge of this place? And why is this rabbit hole so deep? Lewis Carroll's 1865 novel "Alice in Wonderland" a rabbit hole into a land of illogical characters It is also, perhaps unsurprisingly, absolutely break all the rules. In Wonderland, signposts give misleading advice. Sizes shift unexpectedly, brought to life else? -- forced perspective. The DNA of the story can be felt in pretty little references to full on character homages Viewfinder even has its own version of the advice about how to navigate an illogical Because critically, Wonderland is deeply frustrating little sinister. In many ways, it feels like the world of adults and governed by rigid conventions that make The world seems a meaningless puzzle, made people who don't realize the absurdity of It kind of reminds me of going to the airport. The 2014* absurdist adventure game Jazzpunk of an airport baggage claim. The luggage leisurely inches along as the in the air like a signpost for a boarding (music) With zero buildup or justification, it launches intro sequence -- the old-school espionage the game parodies. But it just keeps going and going, the sense until it throws you, spinning... into an extremely dull office space. From here, the game becomes absurdly realistic. Though you play as an international superspy, as you wait in real time for your boss to When the waiting's finally over, your boss then proclaims he'll be 'in his wine cellar' Jazzpuuuuuunk! Like most works of satire, Jazzpunk points with various aspects of reality. The world it takes place in -- a retro-futuristic, in the late 1950s, is suffocating under suspicion Yet though most characters treat this atmosphere at counterintelligence feel profoundly unserious. There's an agent hiding in a mailbox who you around with a completely unsuspicious who uses top-secret carrier pigeons to... Though gravity never inverts and space never conventions, its world feels just as absurd, so far. But there's one moment in particular that different. Early in the game, you can sit in a movie commercial for something called a 'Swing And though the product seems too absurd, too is, in fact, a real toy from 1965. One that was, unsurprisingly, discontinued The game's characters watch in silent rapture, match the preposterousness of our reality. During the height of Cold War paranoia, the The plan, which is real, was to spy on enemy within a cat. The plan failed due to the shocking revelation It cost twenty million dollars. Around the same time, British defense came a nuclear warhead in the event of a Soviet The timer was to be set off by a live chicken When the plan was declassified, many assumed The official government response was, and jokes." And it's after learning things like this so absurd. The fact that buildings have both a fire alarm a few degrees removed from the silliness of This is a video about fictional worlds that feels just as lawless and arbitrary. Okay, now it's time to talk about An Airport Released in 2021, the game takes place in, by dogs. As a result, the familiar conventions of an distortion. The dogs, (or weird, floating jpegs of dogs) modifications. The bar serves toilet water, the bathrooms Due to dogs' poor short-term memory, if fifty. Yet even more challenging is the other layer aliens, all the signage is in an unreadable And the game does actually expect you to navigate make you long for the rules of a real airport. But here's something that playing An Airport realize. All airports are fictional. And by fictional I don't mean they don't But everything about an airport, from the signs, to the dividing barriers, are, ultimately, A kind of collective fiction of procedures And I'm not saying all these procedures stop following the lines of a runway, there'd But the lines of a runway have no inherent to them. Sometimes it's only possible to recognize when we see them from a new perspective, like dogs. It's bewildering when a fictional world of the rules we follow in reality are their Does it sound like I've lost my mind? A little bit? It's hard to stay grounded when exploring I want to look at for this video. Cuccchi (coo-key) is... not really a game, Cuccchi is made up of simple icons floating will be placed into the context of a surreal, Many of these landscapes are about as abstract untraversable, with some made up of just a Each region is inspired by a different painting of the game. Cucchi's paintings are, similarly, enigmas Yet what's most interesting about Cuccchi how rarely I felt lost when navigating each Even when things were at their most abstract, latch on to some familiar iconography and In many respects, Cuccchi feels like ultimate how our brains can conjure a full-fledged Exploring the realms of Cuccchi made me reevaluate of media I've discussed thus far. I think there's real significance to the Superliminal... is also the simplest. It's just a painting of the sky propped thing. And while your annoyance at being Wile E Coyote'd Room.' Inside is a projection of a patch of sky -- the in the game are modeled off of. It's emotionally overwhelming knowing that it's just a 2D illusion. But here's the thing -- everything about The same is true for the world of Viewfinder. Both from an in-universe perspective: everything in Viewfinder is -- well, I won't give But also, in the most literal way possible: screens. No aspect of them has any more real-world different from the real ones. The same holds true for all fictional worlds rules or not. Every film you've ever seen is an illusion: in quick succession to break your brain into There are hand-drawn disks from the 1800s you into seeing motion when spun at the right The photographs of Viewfinder, the false exits But from a certain point of view, all fiction To return a final time to "Alice in Wonderland," that adults have taught Alice consistently It is only in embracing the irrationality are nonsensical and can be broken, that Alice up from a dream. Sometimes the value of worlds that shatter reality doesn't make sense. So many things in our daily routines are arbitrary, particular point of view. Sometimes that can be comforting, or even But sometimes, it's worth changing your As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.