- [Narrator] Hey, you! Yeah, you! New merch available now, including a supremely uncool T-shirt and a glorious new character pin. Link in the description down below. (angelic harp music) &quot;All right, folks, gather round. I've got some good news &quot;Did you say good news and glad news?&quot; &quot;No. I said good news and Word on the street is there's coming in from Central Asia that'll wipe out half of Europe.&quot; &quot;What's the good news? &quot;Please say you have a cure.&quot; &quot;No. Even better. The good news is we've got a (crickets chirping) (crowd cheering) (loud boom) To understand the War of the Bucket, we first need to talk about this guy. He's the man with the plan, He's holy, lowly, he eats ravioli with the white cassock, and the most tasteful of fringed fascias. Come on. Y'all know who I'm talking about. It's the Pope, the head of the largest religious organization in the world. But what if I told you he wasn't always the big, bad boy powerhouse That's right. Throughout history, the papacy to wrestle against to retain its authority. The earliest popes, for example, suffered under the brutal and many ended up martyred, who was ostensibly thrown into the sea with an anchor around his neck. On the bright side, however, he's now the patron saint of fishermen. After persecution finally ended, the Pope still found himself by secular kings and nobility. For over two centuries basically decided who could become Pope. Then came a real low point, during what has been cold in the Dark Age, a period where noblewomen How should I put this? Feminine charm. (whistles) It was around here that one infamous Pope, John XIII, took office. This bad boy would hold... How should I put this? Naughty no-clothes parties And, apparently, this would even happen: &quot;C'mon Zeus! Give me a six! (dice rattling) Uh, did I say Zeus? I meant Thor. (gasps) Ra, the Egyptian sun god? (gasps) Dang it! Who is it we worship?&quot; &quot;Perhaps you should read &quot;In the beginning, God created Wow! This is wild!&quot; Pope John XII eventually (door bangs) caught in the act by an irate husband who picked the pope up and (explosion) The point I'm trying to make here is that often the Pope was a very weak and corruptible figure and was regularly used and as a tool to increase their And there was certainly an when the Pope and the Kingdom And king of the Franks, &quot;Hey, man, being King of but I want more legitimacy and also to become the So what say in return for my protection you crown me emperor so &quot;Sure thing pal. We'll Charlemagne, King of the Franks, I hereby crown you Emperor of the West.&quot; &quot;Oh! Oh my goodness! I was not expecting this I simply cannot accept.&quot; &quot;Oh. Okay then. I guess I'll just put &quot;Give me that crown!&quot; Charlemagne's crowning as Emperor was certainly an historic moment, but it also created a bit It set the precedent only the Pope could crown an emperor. But the Pope was also very and control of Charlemagne. So who really held the power I'm sure that this conflict to die! &quot;Bishop of Freising, we want to thank you once again for visiting our wonderful city. It's been an honor.&quot; &quot;The pleasure is all mine. And what a wonderful tour it's been. I've seen the city walls. Nothing could top that.&quot; &quot;Oh couldn't it? Because Tada!&quot; &quot;Oh. Yes, that's... very interesting.&quot; &quot;Isn't it the greatest &quot;Well, I mean, it is just a bucket.&quot; &quot;Get... him... outta here!&quot; (crowd jeering) (vegetables splatting) Over time, Charlemagne's and the Kingdom of the into the Holy Roman Empire. And by now, the Pope and the Emperor weren't such good friends anymore, since neither could agree To make matters worse, to investing his own bishops and abbots. What does that mean? Well, allow me to explain. The problem for the Holy Roman Emperor was his empire wasn't really an empire, so much as a nightmarish federation made up of hundreds of counties, duchies, bishoprics and more. The princes in charge often didn't give the The German nobility rebelling against the Emperor, and the Emperor spent a lot of his time trying to put down those rebellions. &quot;Can we get rid of them?&quot; &quot;Who?&quot; &quot;All the nobility. Get rid of them in pick new &quot;You can't just remove noble &quot;Pwease.&quot; &quot;Aw! Okay. How about this? Some of those territories are and as Holy Roman Emperor, considered by many to be the perhaps you can choose who gets &quot;Yay!&quot; &quot;Now it's time to turn out &quot;Okay. I love you.&quot; &quot;Um... okay. Goodnight.&quot; &quot;Say it back!&quot; And so it was the Emperor and loyal followers into and thereby was able to increase his own power and authority. Not only that, but the were also engaging in That's when someone &quot;Hey, I want to become a bishop and get all the personal riches Perhaps we could come to some kind of... (slam) arrangement.&quot; That's right. Church positions were actually being sold to the highest bidder. And let me tell you, they &quot;It's gonna cost you &quot;I don't think so. I've got a promo code!&quot; And speaking of promo codes, I know I do. I really like it. And that's why I use Honey. Honey is a free browser extension that automatically finds whenever you shop online, for free! This means you always get the best deals without even trying, on over 20,000 sites, like For example, here I am buying seven pizzas after a long day of animating. It's currently costing me a $130. Oh, hello Honey. You have a voucher for me, you say? All I have to do is click, you say? Nice! I saved $31.78, There is absolutely no for everything you buy online. It's free and literally Get Honey for free at That's joinhoney.com/oversimplified. And as always, by using my links, you'll be supporting my channel. So thank you. Now where were we? Oh yeah. Investing bishops and abbots, authority and power. &quot;Wait a minute! This is depravity! The purpose of the church isn't for him to increase his own authority in power. It's for me to increase my &quot;What about Jesus, Your Holiness?&quot; &quot;What?&quot; &quot;I thought the purpose of the church was to spread the good &quot;How drunk are you?&quot; &quot;Very!&quot; &quot;All right, the results for the election of chief magistrate are in. Giovanni Kablami, 1%. Spaghetti Jeff, 2%. And the bucket, one trillion percent!&quot; (cheering) Around the tear 1050, a series and they said enough was enough. They wanted to stop the and investing his own church officials. &quot;How are you gonna stop me so long as I have control Remember the circular power division? If you try to stop me, and pick someone else. Oh no! I've contracted tuberculosis!&quot; (body thuds) And just like, the Emperor was dead. His six-year-old son, Henry IV, took over. And as we all know, child The church had an opening to take back control of the papacy. &quot;Hey man, I hope you don't mind but we're changing the rules so that only the church of and you no longer have Ya know, if that's cool with you.&quot; &quot;I peed my pants.&quot; &quot;Okay! Great talk!&quot; Then, with the position of he held a big meeting of all the reforms and new and it included some pretty gnarly stuff. &quot;Okay, first, I have the Everyone cool with that? Yeah? Um, let's see. Only I can depose or reinstate bishops. Yeah? All right. No one can judge me. Uh, all princes shall only kiss my feet. Only my name shall be My name is the only name in the world!&quot; &quot;Okay. I think you're done.&quot; These were all some pretty radical powers the Pope was giving himself. And with these reforms, the pope was basically telling the Emperor you no longer have the right to choose your own bishops and abbots. Only I can do that. When the emperor, now a full-grown man, heard the news, he was furious. &quot;What? This is madness! Who does this guy think he is? I'm the emperor for goodness sake! He can't tell me what to do! I'll invest my own bishops and this rapscallion can go right to heck! I peed my pants again!&quot; The whole conflict escalated and said, &quot;Hey, guess what, sucker. You're deposed.&quot; &quot;Aw. Wait a minute! I'm the Pope! You can't depose me! You're deposed!&quot; &quot;Aw. Wait a minute! I'm the Emperor! You can't depose me! You're deposed!&quot; &quot;Aw. Wait a minute!&quot; Eventually, the German of the situation, and they Henry was forced to apologize to the pope, and the whole thing ended there. Except it didn't. The whole conflict, known today as the would continue on for centuries as popes and emperors over the emperor choosing The overall result of this and full of complexities. But in general, the pope was &quot;Great news, Your Holiness. Your influence is on the rise Except for this one &quot;Really? What's going on there?&quot; (men chanting) As for the Emperor, he found his realm thrown into further chaos and civil war, as the local princes continued and independence. This was most notably the separated from the rest by the Alps. The Emperor's influence had often been questionable. In the current chaos, began operating almost Their practical independence when Emperor Frederick to try to reassert his control. The cities formed an alliance and with the pope's support, they kicked the emperor &quot;Hooray,&quot; said the Italian We're the best of friends!&quot; And then they immediately (swords clanging) Why? Well, this whole in Italy at least, had infiltrated society to it's very core. Across Italy, families between two opposing sides; on one side, the Guelphs, who on the other, the Ghibellines, These two sides struggled for control as Guelph cities battled As usual, personal interest as pro-pope Guelph cities tended who didn't like the emperor's taxes. Emperor-supporting were often agricultural, where the expanding papal These cities would depending who was in charge and their ever-changing In some cities, brutal fighting as opposing families fought for control. At times, the conflict became so tribal that the differences between the two sides were just downright silly. &quot;My love, I can't bear But how can we? My Ghibelline family wears feathers on the left side of their caps, and your Guelph family My Ghibelline family and your Guelph family &quot;These are arbitrary differences. We shouldn't let them tear us apart. We can be together no matter &quot;Wonderful news! Let's I'll drink from my &quot;And I shall drink from (music cuts off) &quot;Get out of my sight you Two city-states in particular that got caught a long-standing rivalry was the emperor-supporting Modena and the pope-supporting, These two cities had as they had already on a number of occasions. In 1249, the two sides took after which the victorious Bolognese launched a live donkey into For decades after that, the two sides would occasionally into each other's territory In the fateful year of 1325, the Bolognese went on one such trip and laid waste to some farmlands. The ruler of Modena, was having none of it. The Bolognese had two major forts protecting their city in the southwest, so Passerino, in retaliation, decided to take an army down &quot;Hey, you dirty Bolognese jerks! You think you can raid our farmlands? Come out here and face me like a man!&quot; &quot;Hey man, what's up? I've just come out to let you know that there's no need to siege us because- (smack) Whoa! Hey man! Chill out! I'm trying to tell you- (smack) Whoa! Stop doing that! I'm trying to tell you I'm to the imperial cause, and I want to willingly &quot;Oh. Cool. Okay.&quot; &quot;Dude! What was that for?&quot; &quot;For betraying your people. And this... is for joining mine. Mwah.&quot; The Bolognese were pretty unhappy to lose one of their main defensive forts. But to make matters &quot;Hey, wait a minute. Where's the bucket?&quot; &quot;Oh no! It's gone!&quot; &quot;Those Modenese must have taken it!&quot; &quot;We'll make them pay! They may take our lives, but they will never take our bucket! Oh wait, here it is. I found it guys. It's right here. Phew. Could you imagine if we That would have been really stupid, and there'd probably be on YouTube one day. Thank goodness it never That's right. The famous story you may know that the war started because doesn't actually seem to be quite right. I was surprised to find that the bucket was likely not actually stolen And at this point, I want to to fellow history YouTuber M Laser. He's the one guy I found a fantastic original Italian source and then kindly allowed me to use his work in my own research. He does really well-researched and definitely deserves So please head on over and check him out. The real reason Bologna seems is simply that they both hated each other, supported opposing factions, the Pope had called on Guelph and Bologna wanted its fort back. And they were gonna get it back. Bologna had a large force, much larger than what so they felt pretty confident. They sent half they're force to lay siege and take back the fort, and the other half took to prevent the Modenese The smaller Modenese force were struggling to find a place to cross, so one night they were We're attacking way up here in the north. Better move your troops. Oh, would you look at. And just like that, the The Bolognese were probably to come and break their siege. But instead, the Modenese at Zappolino. Bologna couldn't afford to lose so the entire Bolognese force moved to take defensive When the Modenese arrived, it and there were about two In most medieval battles, at this point both sides would set up a and prepare for battle the next day. But the outnumbered Modenese decided the only way to win was to while the Bolognese were still And that's exactly what they did. They charged at the Bolognese line, and the two sides (swords clanging) Then the sneaky Modenese pulled what must be the most predictable yet somehow consistently surprising move in medieval warfare. They sent the cavalry around the side and hit 'em from behind. Bing, bang, bong. The With casualties in the thousands, Modena had won. (army cheering) And the Modenese cavalry all the way back to the city. After Modena's victory, of the Bolognese countryside, burning some stuff down along the way. When they reached the city itself, instead of laying siege, and basically held a massive The defeated Bolognese could as the Modenese force began packing up and getting ready to leave. They noticed something. &quot;Oh my gosh. Hey! Check this out!&quot; &quot;No way! Are you kidding me? &quot;They're still using traditional wells!&quot; &quot;Hey you dumb Bolognese, ever You can't even get water out of the ground without using a stupid bucket.&quot; &quot;It's not a stupid bucket. &quot;Yeah, whatever bucket boy. We're taking this with us.&quot; (man screaming) So Modena stole Bologna's bucket and put it up on display eventually moving it to the city hall, where it remains on display to this day. The two cities came to a peace settlement a few months later. Bologna would have to pay and in exchange, Modena would return all conquered territories. Modena kept the bucket. Despite being one of the bloodiest battles in medieval Italian history, it didn't really change anything, except now Modena had Bologna's bucket. As for the larger power struggle between the Pope and that would continue on for some time and played a part in many major such as the Crusades, the eventually leading to of church and state we So there you have it. We learnt about the Pope the Investiture Controversy, and finally the War of the Bucket. It's been a long day, and it's and go to sleep. &quot;Okay. I love you.&quot; &quot;Um, okay. Goodnight.&quot; &quot;Say it back!&quot; (upbeat R&amp;B music)