Over 2,000 American servicemen were killed. And more than eight decades later, the government in the catastrophic blitz on Pearl Harbor. On December 7, 1941, the U.S. naval base at attack from 353 Japanese aircraft, hurling The devastation was unprecedented. A total of 1,177 men were killed aboard the of those who served aboard ships in Pearl Only 334 of the ship's 1,511 crewmen survived. According to the National WWII Museum, a bomb creating a hellish inferno. 80 years later, &quot;Where we were, we were high, and we could We would see the planes fly in, we'd hear Of the victims on the USS Arizona, only 107 The remaining 1070 were classified as either due to where they were located within the Just months after the attacks, U.S. government kept in place in the harbor and designated difficult to remove the bodies with the respect Today, the Arizona remains at the bottom of with the white, wing-like building constructed year. According to the National Park Service, which today, the sinking of the USS Arizona represented history. One survivor of the attack told the History &quot;The fire from the Arizona was so intense, film on their bodies were like human torches.&quot; As cruel as fate was for those who died aboard was in one respect even worse for the 429 their survivors. Hit by eight torpedoes in the first 10 minutes the first barrage. The USS Oklahoma then became an upside-down, in its hull. As mortician Caitlin Doughty told The Mirror, &quot;For the families of those that died aboard as no wreck remains of the battleship.&quot; The remains of the men who had died trapped as the ship's parts were salvaged. Unfortunately, this resulted in caskets that men jumbled together. As for the ship itself, The Oklahoma later being towed to its final salvage point on A memorial at Pearl Harbor's Ford Island dedicated is the only site where relatives can pay their A dreadnought of the Colorado class, the West two bombs and seven torpedoes on December As the Naval History and Heritage Command more than one hundred men were lost in the mortally-wounded Captain Mervyn Bennion, who that the ship remained upright as it sank, down. Some were nevertheless trapped in sealed compartments According to the Dictionary of American Fighting when the ship was refitted and repaired two In a chilling and macabre discovery, a calendar that days had been marked off every day after two weeks after the attack. Despite the loss of so many men, there were Many of the survivors were forced to dive caught on fire -- while one ensign who was the ship to help save as many people as possible. Sustaining hits from both torpedoes and bombs nevertheless took two days to sink to the But her men were valiant in their attempts No less than four sailors and one officer of Honor, the most prestigious military award The National World War II Museum states that aboard when the attack occurred, saved one being mortally wounded in another blast; he so many other men had been killed aboard the Although her salvage and repair took more almost 100 of her sailors, returned to combat, the war's end. The Utah, which had been decommissioned by in error by a Japanese pilot. Six torpedoes were wasted on the ship - which the Pacific anyway -- and 58 men were killed, when they tried to swim ashore through the &quot;When they hit, they did catastrophic damage The Utah is one of three warships considered Arizona, she still lies in her berth in Pearl aboard. For decades, there was no recognition whatsoever According to the Honolulu Star-Bulletin, when the wreck in subsequent years, he stated, &quot;There was nothing but mud then, and no indication Incredibly, that was the case until 1972, dedicated at the site. Now, Navy sailors raise and lower a flag each are entombed there. A direct hit on The USS Shaw became one of The Shaw, which was the target of multiple took hits to her machine gun platform, forecastle, Coming at 7:55 on a Sunday morning, the attacks onboard. Her forward ammunition magazines were ignited resulting in an immense fireball. The Shaw was soon engulfed in flames, and abandon ship. Many leaped overboard and were able to save of the bombings and the all-consuming fires Despite the extensive damage, the USS Shaw no fewer than 11 battle stars. The USS Pennsylvania, a sister ship to the dreadnought sibling. Sustaining few direct hits, her crew has the who were able to open fire and counterattack A survivor from the ship said in 2021, &quot;It was instant confusion. Mad scramble confusion.&quot; The Pennsylvania was repaired so quickly that after the attack, despite being strafed by A bomb destroyed her entire 5-inch gun mount, Altogether the Pennsylvania lost 15 officers The Pennsylvania was able to sail to San Francisco repairs before taking part in further action The USS Nevada, Helena, Curtiss, Chew, Dobbin, Vestal, Downes, and Tennessee were among the their crews in the surprise attack at Pearl The Nevada, weighing 27,500 tons, was the after the attacks began; because of this, She beached after losing 50 officers and men, She went on to take part in the invasion of Sadly, she was later used as part of the atomic she had to be sunk. And despite the loss of 33 men, the crew of down no less than six Japanese dive bombers counterattack that saw the Helena unleash Many bodies recovered from the warships and interred in Pearl Harbor's National Memorial Later DNA tests were able to identify 70 men And additional testing was used to sort through as well. Following the attack, the government decided collected into &quot;sets&quot; of as many bones for This resulted in many remains being mixed In 2003, DNA tests were performed on one casket remains were only recovered two years after Oklahoma that recovered the remains of 381 DNA tests positively identified his remains, held the remains of 90 different servicemen. The positive identification of Wyman's remains remains of the Oklahoma servicemen. First interred in small cemeteries, all the were later taken to the Central Identification in 1947. However, only 35 men were able to be identified as dental records and dog tags. The creation of the Defense POW/MIA Accounting be identified as researchers from the Armed with families and descendants living all over John Byrd, the lab's director, told Politico, &quot;We've identified over 90% of these individuals.&quot; But the work isn't done. The success has given hope for the eventual whose remains were found in the USS California &quot;I don't think families ever can get closure. But they can get answers.&quot; Because of the great respect that must be forever in the Arizona and other wrecks at divers have the privilege of exploring the Some of them are even given the somber duty to be interred in these ships along with their PN Online, the journal of the Paralyzed Veterans at the sites of the Pearl Harbor wrecks as dead, to monitor the decay rates of the ships, debris field and to check on the environmental still leaking oil. All the Pearl Harbor shipwrecks -- along were lost that day -- are under the auspices that the watery graves of the brave servicemen with the proper respect.