All right. We're where you can cause a soda explosion It's Soda Geyser. The entire purpose here I'm not kidding. You're actually trying to get to the moon. Oh, boy. You're trying to get to the moon All right, let's Starting with the Statue of Liberty. Now, obviously, you get to use math That's a lot of math. This is less math. I like this math. I don't like division either. Okay. All the Mentos are looking good. Obviously, you could upgrade which is something that we are eventually straight up the pipe. It's almost 65 meters of soda. I love that. It just gets more and more stupid, like All right. Let's go ahead. And I don't know what this is, but I'm going to go ahead and upgrade it It just makes the soda So you need to fill it to exactly 56. Well, that's easy. There you go. Math is very easy the number that you actually need. The pyramids in the background. And it's like, seriously, I have survived So some idiot with a soda and a bunch of Oh, man. I'm so glad All right. Yeah. Let's Now we're just going for I'm picking this one. Double the- Oh, no. Oh, no. I may have gone overboard. Got it! Just beat the high score. We're almost past the pyramid, I think. Oh, no, we're past it. Never mind. On to Empire State Building. Oh, my God. I just have to eventually destroy some More Mentos and more of this. All right. We're going I'm going to go into 25. Now we're going to bucket Oh, it's actually falling into, this whole area here. I'm so sorry, Eiffel Tower, that you have to see the way But at least we're almost Fish Lord has taken over Oh, my God. Oh. So now. Oh, but it drops down so you don't always know We're way past 81. Can I at least beat the high score? No, I appreciate that now they're adding spikes into the mix. All right, let's do times 15. I actually want to know Oh, wow. It didn't really do very much because it caused my mentos The soda is like as far as it can We're going big. Okay, 40, 60, 80, 90. Oh, it's right there. Oh, it could go all the way. Look at the speed that is vomiting to the Nice. On to the Empire State Building. I can't wait to eventually Okay. More Mentos. So now we're filling up a truck, a literal truck. I don't know. I'm going to go down here. Our- Our numbers are so high We need 120 something, so. Right. Right here. Here we go. This should be perfect. Uh huh. Look at that. 135. Exactly. The glass explodes. The Empire State Building Okay, so we're pretty much right on, but I mean, if I just wanted straight numbers between those two I know there's a six division, The poor guy that's driving the truck too. Like when just a nuclear warhead Beat the high score. That is the most Mentos I'm pretty sure I have ever seen. I had so many that they were backed Look at how many. It's actually leaving Somehow some of them got inside of the We are like breaking mathematics The problem is you need to be closer So I can't get past this the right value of explosion, So you don't want to explode infinitely. So right here. See, Because we want 207 and we got like 208 I don't know. I'm not really good at math. That's how you do it. We're coming Canada and Daddy Levi. All right, first things first, So we start with six. All right. Let's start with times three So we'll go slightly over if we go over here or I can just do Oh, I can add colors? To what? Like the balls or the explosion? I don't know. I guess I'll find out in a second. If it's gonna be like vomiting green soda. Oh, yeah. Is absolutely vomiting. Just green ectoplasmic sludge. So 243, we've already kind of gone and hope that it doesn't violate the the mathematics, Too much. God, the green. It's so vile. Well, we beat our Oh yeah, get ready. Daddy Levi doesn't know what's coming for him. That's how you do it? I don't actually know what happens after Hopefully they get to continue to exist. So after the pigeon, we go to Mount Fuji and then Mount Everest I'm just here to keep the numbers going. Honestly, the more numbers, the better. 295 All right, let's start with times three There's won't be enough, but at least it doesn't go over Just starting on the tower. We're getting to 350 meters. I love that on a bad day, we're sending Times three. Times two. Times six. That's going to be big. This is going to be the new best record Yeah, right at it! Big numbers! 222! 223! So I think that's even closer. I don't know if it'll get us to the top of the tower, yet. Okay, we're one more up 615 meters. The number of money that we're Now give me another ball. All right. This was some really convoluted math, What's crazy is we're doing this good, like, half the tower to go. Like, we just busted two more levels 252. Come on, I'm like 40 away. Just let me have this. I love being here. It's All right, well, buy more explosives. 280, that's about as close as you can get. Look at the speed. It's like breaking the sound barrier Yep. There's the high score. Still not perfect, though. That is going to go all the way. I found the problem. We had to generate even more rocket fuel. Now we get to go to the pigeon. All right. I've learned my lesson. We're going to- I'm just going to- I'm going to upgrade as much as I can 381. Starting with nine, I think, like, Yeah, there we go! Look at how at this point, like, 500 meters isn't We need a lot more numbers than this. So we're going to slide off this bank Okay. So now we can get 100 and then 200. Or I could do this, which is big numbers That's got to be close to 250. Oh, it's past 250. It is 342. Aaaaaaaaand to the pigeons!!! The pigeons are static. They're just frozen in midair, 1.2 miles. All right, We're going to do more of this. Don't ask me what this turns into, because But I have to do it just because I want to see how many balls Throws a lot of balls at the problem. in whatever toxic waste Pigeons are going to have Actually, it's kind of awesome and then this upgrade. Yeah, this number looks special right there. Well, half it went to the number. Part of it just went wherever it wanted I love that now it's actually turning. 60 times seven. That's pretty close. It's not quite the 414, I got to spend some money Yeah, sure. Blue. All right. Powerade Here we go. Oh, that's, Yeah, no big deal. Just an extra, you know, $5,000. And right past Mt. Fuji over into Mt. Everest. We're getting to the clouds, I just want to see what this does right I don't care about the divided by seven. Should still be. Oh, it's a terrible amount of Mentos. That's not even enough to destroy a planet. At this point, we need to harness enough power All right, that as it is, I just noticed, too, that Mt. Everest right now it looks like a lump of That's probably too much, We could go all the way. It's a little over, but it's still going Got to beat 8800 meters. All right. I need a lot more upgrades So now, at least Again, the higher this goes, the higher Our Mentos geyser of Blue Death. 513 We need more more power Filled up 513 and it was enough, I don't care how much I have to pay. We're getting there. 579 How much more do you want from me? Look at how many Mentos it takes Like, it's such a ridiculous amount, it's It's just like King Kong's mouthwash Luckily, I put a ton of money so getting the 612 isn't They're still just randomly being made over here, just like infinite There nine kilometers! Okay, so it's starting me off at level 11. We already know it's So I've got to increase that. I've got to make sure Keep some money left behind. Let me see if I can get it down because right off the bat, Okay. So very first try. Can we get to like five kilometers? Yes. Not even halfway there. Well, not even close. But I mean, like our power level is only begun to rise. I'm still giving birth to more mentos to more Mentos. I don't actually know The numbers that we originally started Nine kilometers I think we need to get past that. So more power. I am running out of space Oh, no! Some of the balls went down a different tube, so we're going to end up Look at how many? 500. Come on, baby! 600! You could get seven. Easy. Seven. And we were- which means we're going to get ten. 11. All right. Pass the airplane over to the cirus clouds! We've almost done it. We're almost at the moon. I say a little bit. It's like a lot. All right, I'm filling and I'll buy more Mentos to start with, too. So I'm just going to go big So even if this is around 300, Yeah, 390 starting to go outside I need to get more multipliers. How much does it cost? I have to do it for free. All right. 200. 300. Come on. 400, 500. I need even more math. But what does this get us? 500, seven. eight, nine kilometers. Okay, so now we're at five 600 even. Still not going to be But it should get us passed Okay, there's ten closing in but look at how far we have to go Oh, is it- is it going to be- It's going to be like 560. 585. Lifetime supply of Mentos Ten kilometers. More multiplication!!! Those are the trucks That's how ridiculously oversize this is. Which means that each tab of Mentos Okay. I've maxed out on everything now. So I just need the right multiplication. All my life, I thought to myself, multiplication? Little did Doing YouTube, trying to make a soda geyser reach the moon. Ppast the clouds. I love how ridiculous the numbers get. How we went from like 13 kilometers to 574 the 27,000 and to the moon. Let's finish this up. I'm just going to have to go ahead We're going to need as many times So we're going to get this Oh, one already fell down there. That wasn't my plan. But I don't really know I'm hoping it's a lot. So I'm filling up an actual volcano at this point, t's not even like a- It's just a volcano. Oh, sure. Whatever. Go ahead. Let it rip. 60 kilometers. A hundred kilometers. All right. 148. 156. 164. 179. That's ridiculous. And we're not even like a third I decide to unlock like this red color, thinking that it would be somewhat close It actually looks more like, It's very neon pink. So 365. Okay, that should at least get us past Well past 100 kilometers. Probably going to go past 200. 164, 171. There's our high score. 194 Yeah. All right. I like these numbers. If my math is correct, Plus, a lot of them because it keeps going through numbers coming down. Oh, yeah, Probably be past 600. If I had to guess. 500. Yessss. this poor volcano. This volcano is going to have indigestion We might actually get the 1088. This is insane. Yep, How far can this go? All right, straight past 100 kilometers. Like it's no big deal. Right past 200 kilometers. It was there for, like, one half a second. 500 kilometers. Easy. Okay. 517. Oh, there's the Hubble telescope. All right, now it's onto a G.P.S. satellite. Right now, it's like it's All right, this is not enough. Like this. These. Okay, these numbers can get us closer. But, I mean, it's 1100 of the Mentos tabs. Like, this isn't even past 500, I don't think. Rookie numbers! it may get us past It may get us past 5000 kilometers. I didn't realize these numbers We're already in space Yeah. Oh, I did it. I'm number one right now, All right, we're going to get If I can get these, and getting into some of the other times Multiplication is violent. Oh, lordy! There goes the high score. It's just arbitrarily It's whatever the game feels like. You can see, like the Antarctic circle Oh, Fishlord, I remember when you were somewhat, like, comparable. I've got a lot of money, I don't know why, but this tan color seems like a really I'm going to be shooting rocket gruel Everyone can enjoy it. Can I get 1200? Probably be close Okay, maybe I undersold it. Maybe it's going to be like 1100. 1000. Okay, maybe Yeah, yeet! How long is this going to soar before it eventually knocks It's like so glitchy It's just like pulsating all over the place. which means that it's time I don't like division. Just makes my math that much harder. All right, Moon. We're starting off with a nice, clean 700. I'm going to go back to the original green And that's just starting to get like 100,000 kilometers I can't believe that the curvature I don't know what it's like All right. 133,000! 400. 500. Oh, we might be going Come on, give me at least a thousand. Oh 950. 975. Here we go! Oh my God! Did we get- Oh, my God. The board is now just starting 250! Come here, moon! for arbitrarily high numbers. How many Mentos? All of the Mentos. Okay. The Mentos ended up flying like. Look, it goes off of the thing here. So the numbers are- They're just- It's like a rain- Okay. We're probably going to get, So that should be a new personal best, but I don't think it's enough We're blasting right past 100,000, So you figure it's going to be Let's see. 244. 256. Okay. 256 or so. Wow. There wasn't enough space for all the Mentos. A bunch of them just spilled I was hoping for at least 1000. Yeah, I think. I think It's still just like, It's just vomiting There wasn't even this At this point, it's just it's Should get, like, 1200. Like 1250. Okay. This is going to be a new personal best. This is going to be 300,000. It's got to be at this point. We're going to be the previous best. Yeah, 317. Where's the moon at? I want to tickle the moon. We've got to almost Look at how close: 385. We're like 95% of the way there. Upgrade. Oh, the time has come. The time has finally come. Keep going. 1000. Yeah, 1100. Okay. 1200. 1222! Okay. I hope now Like, it makes me wonder too, like the amount soda this high, would I be leaving Like would I actually break part I feel like the answer is probably. We got to max out. All of the numbers The multiplication The value of Mentos here You know, the amount is getting ridiculous for, like 30 seconds to wait Here we come. Is this enough to finally uppercut the moon with soda? Oh, Moon, I hope you don't have I hope you're not, like, because we're coming. 340. There it is. Come on, let me have it. Yesssss!!!!! And that's it. There is now nothing left. You reech- R. E. E. C. H. the moon! Well, soda explosives were made on earth, Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed this episode of Soda Geyser.