It's been a little while since I first got And it's safe to say that there There are new tools out there, new So today I thought I would break to get started as a social media And the first question you might should I even get started as I mean, there is so much competition, also from robots and AI tools, I still think that social media entry points into digital. Meaning that if you want to build If you wanna run ads, if you want to I think honing your skills as a social pay the bills to fuel your passion is It's what I've done and it's despite what you might think. Listen to this. LinkedIn reported that Third most in-demand marketing And according to Search Engine third top marketing skill in demand. And social media marketing is the fourth. So these are definitely skills where you wanna go in your career. And I think it is totally Oh, and by the way, if you wanna story, and what I've been able to well as how you can use some of that I'll leave a link for you down below, but Okay. So the first thing that you're gonna You wanna decide if you would wanna work in-house somewhere, or And I'm gonna give you a really brief are and some of the pros and cons So I work for myself. I am my own boss and I basically contract Most people have a particular So for me, I work with a lot of a lot of startups, and I helped Working in-house is what I did prior Staffing company. Before that, I worked for an automotive department, so I was a full-time were the only brand that I worked on. And then before that, And an agency is kind of similar to with a lot of different brands, a still a full-time employee in most whatever arrangement you work out. And it's that traditional job experience. So really quick, the pros and cons. I mean, obviously I think the pros You get to work for yourself, but I've gotta be honest with you, that can put a lot of pressure. on myself in that I'm the And honestly, I don't It can be high stress. And while I personally have found the or a business owner, that hasn't come Sacrifice. If you are looking to make a really high in the work, you gotta put in the hours. And definitely when I was first starting, So work-life balance can be easier It's kind of weird. Working in-house is really cool because and become a subject matter expert, and Along with, of course, just So if that's what you're looking Go in-house. The cons, though, I got bored. Honestly. I did get bored working for just one you're working for isn't exactly I did a lot of B2B marketing, A reputation for being a little It's cool because you do get a lot you have agency experience and you're or looking to pitch to a client, good thing, having agency experience. is kind of like top tier. It's what a lot of brands look for. It's fast paced. You get to work with a lot of and so you learn really quickly. But the con to that is high of just being a whole lot of work. They can be competitive. , they can be, you know, just a lot. Just really intense. So the reason that it's important to what you're open to doing, I think it's of them, or I'm open to freelancing, or really going to shape your portfolio and If you. Only wanna work in-house you to work on your LinkedIn. I'm gonna tell you to go to job fairs. I'm gonna tell you to, you know, Meanwhile, if you're looking to you is gonna be totally different. You want to build a portfolio, all of those kinds of things. So just get an idea of what you And then I want you to choose a niche or So Nicheing, when I first started just because there were less of us. There were less social media managers Platforms. There was less kind of going I always say when I first got posts and maybe a couple of tweets. That was pretty much it in the beginning. Now, as we know, there are so There are so many different of social, which is great because but that also means that you You have to set yourself apart And one of the best ways you can do A niche basically means an area of focus. So do you work with people in sass, in food, uh, and even food probably Is it? Farm to table type food. Is it vegan food? Get really specific about the And the way that I figure this out passion and your experience intersect. Or if you don't have a ton of experience Where you can get experience. So for me, when I was first starting experience working in staffing. I'd done that for years, but about it, to be honest. Meanwhile, I had been freelancing and an influencer startup. So I knew those areas. Did align a little bit more. I knew that I was a little bit They were a little bit more fun for so I kind of went that way. I leaned more into the influencer kind of where I went down the And honestly, industry is I think that you can also you were first getting started. I think it. Serve you well to become a specialist You could of course, expand your agency or you know, just get more You can definitely expand to do a beginning, I think it will serve you specialist for personal brands, or I am. A strategist for beauty brands that so forth, do one really, really well. And of course you can expand. If you feel really comfortable offer those all as services, but And then also just by service. So there are a lot of different social media management umbrella. There is what I would say Offer, which is actually publishing and a content calendar or you're scheduling and you're pushing those posts to go live. But you could also create content. You know, that is kind of a separate role, that as a part of their role as well. So do you wanna take photos? Do you wanna create videos? That could be an offer. Are you a strategist? Do you really know how to look good business projections and Are you really great at advertising? Do you love to run Facebook ads, So there's lots of different little could offer us standalone services, Platform management. So figure out what area you Okay? From there, you want to build a portfolio. You might already have experience already, but a lot of us are just gonna I want you to charge what you're worth. I want you to make that money . I really Okay? I'm gonna be honest with you, and There are what I call portfolio projects, that you're passionate about, maybe you work at a retail store or a boutique, a new social media strategy for us? I'm using this so I For my business, if you have a comfortable employer, of course, if it's not an organization that you're part of. I know a lot of my students get some their church or any type of community but it could also be a passion project. So for me, that's really how I got My own content. I got started by making just like like I did a, an Instagram account pictures of the architecture and honestly did it cuz it was kind of fun. and later on I realized, hey, a community around something. And it wasn't focused on me either. I wasn't in the pictures ever. It was like an anonymous account. So that really helped me because I to apply for jobs and pitch for gigs. Like, yes, I know how to build And then of course, I also had helped me hone in my skills as a gonna be a social media manager. And helped me learn how to just drive basics of analytics and how to connect But get some type of a project something to point to so that you Yes, I've written a social media And those testimonials They really are. The golden ticket, honestly. Put them on your website, put Wherever you go to look for And they're really, Next thing you're gonna wanna do is set two portfolio projects under a belt. I get that question all the time. Well, how long and do I need to do this? How many projects do I need to work on? Just a couple. I think having a couple really couple of really solid case studies. Is perfect. Make sure when you're doing these track your time and you start to it's taking you to do each of those For example, it might take you, I calendar, two hours to get everything doing content creation and so on. So, Write that down. You can also use a time tracker HoneyBook has one. And from there, figure out how much you do the math and figure out how much you you can take on as far as client load. And that's gonna help you I have a whole video all about I won't go too in depth on that. in this one, but you do wanna set your decide what you're gonna offer for stuff onto a website, create a website. I think it is so important to have a this is true whether you're looking or whether you want to Of course, I think it's a little more because that is really your calling card. I think it really legitimizes I personally have never worked with website, at least not that I can think of. Maybe like on Upwork and things like in most cases. I wanna look at a website. I wanna really see what they're all about So build a website. I really like Squarespace, but honestly, out there that you can choose from. There's Wicks, there's Showit, So just use what calls you, or you for you if you want it to be like I personally have always built my really do not need to be perfect. To start, you really just need gonna be an about section. I think that's super important. Tell a little bit about yourself. Tell a little bit about the types that you like to work with, why You wanna have a services section, out those packages that you've put pricing on there or you don't have to. It's up to you. I personally like to have price ranges or on my website, just so that I'm not If they are looking for something something that is way, way, way cheap, them, so I want them to understand. you know about what So put that on your services page a good way for people to contact you a contact form, or a contact button, for people to get in touch with you. Don't just have your email at the Make sure it is easy for Okay? Here is where I am going I want you to start pitching. First, start pitching first before you content strategy to attract clients. And I know some people are probably Some people are probably eyerolling I think creating content attract clients at this point. Clients know whether or not they wanna when they see me on LinkedIn, whatever. They have already pre-vetted So when they're booking a discovery sending in a message, I don't I don't have to pitch They just wanna make sure So I think content is extremely valuable. Content also works slowly in most cases. Now, can you have a viral TikTok? Yes. You can have a viral anything. You can have a viral YouTube But it's kind of like the lottery, So I do want you to create content. I do want you to build a content library. It is so valuable. But I want you to do this first. I want you to start pitching so that. Can eat so that you can live, so that you studies and happy clients because it's It's so much easier to create good ideal clients are looking for, So start pitching. There are a lot of ways Honestly, cold emails is where I started. I just built out a list of dream I searched for their email. And you can do this by scouring You can also use extensions and tools works really well at finding email I would find the person who was in In a lot of cases, if this is a kind be a marketing director, a VP of If you are looking to work with a very like mine or an, you know, another coach that, you would probably be reaching know, the, the head person in charge. So just start building that prospecting that you wanna send out every day. Honestly, it's that simple. I would say start big for me, making sure that I was spending. , I would say about half of my day So I would be doing something that on a discovery call with a new client. So I was sending cold emails, I was I wanted to create some type of content, So like a webinar, I did lunch and learns, I would host a class for people would just teach them something. And then I would pitch at the end I have space for three If you want to get in touch with me, book The other thing that I Upwork is one that really helped me a lot I think that these freelancing boards of course, if you were getting inbound position to be in than having to apply But what people don't tell you inbound leads takes time, and It takes building up thought leadership, up a name for yourself, if you will. So it's just not always super realistic. So I think that's what a lot of the I think it's great for starting So my tip for either cold emails or are to personalize your pitch. Make sure that you research I know sometimes on Upwork, they're can't really see, you know exactly pitch, but do your due diligence and. Your best to spend five, 10 minutes on the email, before sending that pitch email. Look at their about section, You know, try to get an understanding of would be working with to personalize those ignorant when you are reaching out. Another thing you can do to make sure that you are reaching the. Person. Huge, huge tip. Don't email contact blah blah blah.com. Probably no one's gonna see it. If somebody does see it, they're probably service and it, it's just, It's not good. Don't DM people on Instagram. Unless again, your ideal client is who you know manages their own But if you're DMing, I don't know, On Instagram, I can guarantee you just gonna delete that because they Something else you can do to a video really like the tool video. There's a similar tool called Loom. Choose one record, a really quick Cannon. I'm Latasha. I'm a huge fan of what you do. Read about this new campaign that and I am a social media manager. I had some ideas of how I can make I'd love to chat with you about it. If you wanna book a free call with Either way, love your brand. Would love to work with you someday. Boom. Like just that was off the top of my head. I'm sure it could be a little bit Don't go in immediately with like, here's Don't go in with that. It's overboard. Just start by making introductions goal was just to get calls like. . If I get, you know, a calendar full a social media manager, then I know going to book some of those people. You know, if you can get, I don't know, 25 hours of work, or I guess even less The likelihood of at least one person So just make your first goal Don't overdo it, as I always like to say, Don't push for an Just get that first date, get that video all about discovery calls. If you wanna learn how to actually And then, like I said, create content. You know, once you're at a good place. Where you have a few clients, you Sure, you may have a ways that you letting up on the gas yet, but start a week, two hours a week, whatever. You can really swing to creating it is, it's so valuable, you know, is building up over time for. and I have tons of content all But the long and the short of it I didn't mean to make a little Choose one longform platform and So for me it's YouTube. And then short form for me would, starting, it was actually LinkedIn. I was making sure that I was posting and at least once a week on YouTube. And those things really worked together. I was able to repurpose my YouTube For you, it might be YouTube Instagram or a podcast and TikTok. Whatever you choose to do, just a week to create something. It'll really work for And just create content that clients would wanna hear about. Big, big cheat code here. Do not. , just talk about things that other unless your, your ideal client is course, if you wanna help them. Do that, but I do want to encourage the heads of your ideal client. If you are targeting dentists, Yes, that is a thing. I know that sounds Look up dentistry conferences and along with those on Twitter or on what that ideal client cares about. Because honestly, unless they're client probably does not care about or, you know, changes to social At the end of the day, they care about So if you can speak to that and subject matter expert, you will All right, so that's it. Those are the basic steps Trying to become a social Let me know if you have any And again, I'm gonna leave a free class well, so you can check that out if you deeper on all of these topics really. But I really hope this was I'll talk to you in the next one. Let me know if there's anything else I Bye.