Hi, my name is Louis. Boolean operations are a fantastic way with other objects in blender, I don't know, robots. Like we do in our new However, they do not always work So for this video, we're going to go through seven common We'll also be using the bool tool, Add-on that could be activated Okay, let's start by brushing up (logo whooshes) Difference. The cutter mesh is subtracted Union. The cutter mesh is added removing any interior faces. Intersect. Everything inside both the cutter mesh and the modified mesh is kept. Slice. This is an additional option available through the native Bool tool add-on, and it has the same effect as running intersect on one and Sometimes boolean operations and a lot of these cases switching the solve method from If this doesn't work, there at play that we need to diagnose. So let's look at a few common issues. Okay, first up, we have like in this example. So let's do a Boolean operation with our cutter selected and let's use difference, and This is less than ideal. So let's do our quick fix It's better, but it's not brilliant. So what's going on? Let's select our cutter and And if we just hit L on the keyboard to select one of the and you can see that if the cut happens just fine. But what if we do want to have this shape? Well, then we have to do two Boolean cuts. So with our second mesh separate by selection So cutter, modified, Ctrl and then we have the result that we want. Moving on. Okay, normals. Ah, this looks relatively So let's select our cutter and our modified, Ctrl + Okay, that's not really Well, this is quite up to viewport overlays Now we can see that the normals of some of our mesh here is flipped, so we can select our modified, go into edit mode, select all, and then we can just hit Shift + N o recalculate outside. And let's jump back out into object mode. And our cut has worked just fine. Okay, time for our watertight example. So again, cutter, and then the modified, Ctrl Now this doesn't look and switching solvers doesn't do anything, so what's the issue? The issue is that our cube mesh here is non manifold geometry. Non manifold geometry is any in the real world. Things like an edge without or an impossibly flat plane, or a hole in our geometry, hence the phrase watertight. Again, these can be tricky to diagnose as the holes can be A quick way to solve this is So if we add modifier, select weld, and move it above our Boolean operation and start increasing the distance. Now this automatically merges vertices that are very, very close together, closing any holes in our However, if this still let's just remove that, we can jump into edit mode, and as long as we are on we can go up to select, and then non manifold. And here we have highlighted the issue. Let's just look here and we So if we just zoom back out, and I'm just going to affect And then I'm just gonna and our Boolean operation works perfectly. Okay, object scaling issues. Let's do our Boolean And we can see that we have a And you'll also note that and looking at our transforms, we have lots of different values here, particularly our scale, which Thankfully, we're gonna fix all of this with our box selected hitting Ctrl and A and then just applying all transforms, and that fixes up our Boolean cut nicely. Let's look at the zero area face issue that you might come up against. Let's do our Boolean And here on fast mode, we which we can diagnose further And as you can see, in we just select an edge, we making the area of said polygons zero. Now we can just add a weld However, if you want to I'm just going to switch on we can jump into edit mode, select all, hit M on the keyboard And lo and behold, our Okay, let's look at the So again, let's do our Boolean operation, Ctrl + Shift B, difference. And again, we have this kind of result, and this is due to our cube So if for example, we and just move this out, making sure we are on edit you can see that it pops into life here. So to keep the same look, we can either make sure that or you can take advantage of If we drop down, we can and that brings our Boolean back to life. Okay, let's look at our And I have already done So if we hide our cutter, you can see that it's not quite doing the shape that we want. And this is because we after our Boolean operation. So if we move that above, problem solved, that's a nice quick one. But let's say we have If we do our Boolean operation here, it's nearly working, but not quite. And this is because we have some geometry inside our cube volume. Thankfully, in order to solve this, we can jump into edit select all by trait, interior faces, and this just selects So let's hit X on the keyboard and delete faces, and our It's worth noting that but these issues So if you're still having problems, I hope this video helps you with making and if you're not sure what to make you might be interested where we'll cover even more complex Boolean operations as well as mesh check the link out in the description I hope to see you there.