My name is Melinda Nelson. I was diagnosed with stage November of 2021. I'm currently I'm originally from Florida. I kind of bounce all around the world. I love to travel. So I actually, at the time of my diagnosis, for several months I was going to several doctors at the time, So the first one was that and sometimes my feet and hands I noticed my feet and hands swelling and I was traveling at the time. I was actually here in Los Angeles, of allergic reaction I also had unexplained I am, I was at the I'm fully plant based and at the time And so there was really like no reason I also found acne on my back and chest. I had a tingling tongue and It would only, go away if I ate something that was an anti histamine, like foods with antihistamines in them. I also had itching and burning eyes with discharge I had, hair growth on my upper lip and my chin and then hair loss on my head, and my scalp was itching and peeling It almost looked like cradle cap. And then I also, in my belly, had a lot of bloating So what? Previously I was eating and things like that, I just couldn't tolerate Which for me is like very rare sight And then also I was bruising very easily And eventually, I started missing my period. So, those are all of my symptoms. And. In terms of, like, who I was going to to I started with an allergist because, like I said, I was traveling So I was like, well, let me go see a local allergist Seeing the local allergist I had high blood pressure my blood pressure before that, So I bought, a blood pressure cuff And I started monitoring my blood pressure And I would have to, like, come inside, lay down And then I was making phone calls back in Florida My primary doctor at the time thought, and thought maybe my blood pressure that I was taking. So everyone kind of agreed with me. Like, So anyways, I ended up, moving back to Florida in October and all these symptoms So from July to October, I was just I met with an integrative I met with I talked to my cardiologist, with a local allergist So the cardiologist actually saw me and asked And again, I was fully plant based, so that was a little bit hard, like, hard But I was also I'll include pictures, and my face was very, The primary integrative doctor that I was going to We thought maybe it was something. It was some type of auto immune response. I already had Hashimoto's so we thought maybe it could be something So we started doing tons of labs. I think at the most and then at the same time I also started seeing an allergist to do a full panel of allergy and also California allergies Unfortunately, I that you can do in the office My my metabolisms too slow for that. So we had to do labs. So it took two weeks to get the results. And she also tested for some autoimmune issues as well So she had a lot of knowledge And so we waited two weeks, everything came back negative. I went into her office and she was like, I'm really concerned The allergist, out of all the doctors is the only one who said, Let me hear your whole story, And luckily, at the time I had put together a timeline of like Any big events like where I was living, Things like, vaccinations were included. I had gotten tattoos, Like anything that I thought might trigger I included on my timeline really the only one who, like, So I felt like she had a really good And she also believed me. A lot of the other doctors how swollen I was, and they were like, So that's like pretty normal. I also before I started having symptoms, I was training for a triathlon So even myself I was like, okay, well, Like, maybe I'm just not training anymore. I'm traveling. I'm like eating good food. Maybe I just didn't. I don't think maybe they're right So after getting the allergy test results and the autoimmune the allergist was like, about the swelling in your stomach. I'd really like to send you for a scan. And I was like, a scan. I'm like, well, I've never, like, Aside from the Hashimoto's. And I was like, okay, That's fine. So my insurance denied the scan, and did a peer to peer review It was approved almost immediately I went in to get a scan, the techs that are that are, running And in the middle of a scan, he was like, we have the area So I'm just going to call them and see if we can get it approved And I was like, okay, like that's fine. Like in retrospect, a little bit of my tumor, and he wanted So very grateful for him as well. And two days after my scan, and said she wanted to go over some things Now, I will also say that in the meantime, and I mentioned that the allergist and my primary physician had me you know, pressing on my belly And she was like, I don't really know why Like, there's a very low chance of you the chances would be even lower And I was like, oh, I mean, I don't know. She ordered it like, I trust her, So anyways, cut to She pulled my scan up and she, you have a tumor We think it's about 16cm. It's on your right adrenal gland. We think it's a tumor called a chromo but it does release hormones. And this could be, very, very dangerous. And the cause of your high blood pressure From there, the allergist recommended to find a surgeon that could operate on me I did who were the top surgeons in the country because that's what I thought And it led me to finding the Mayo Clinic So I reached out to them immediately. They were super helpful. Their intake coordinator helped of what labs they would need in order to, speak with me further, having me speak So eventually I was able to finally secure with a local endocrinologist, and With any type of like adrenal tumor, that you should have done lab work, a urine sample, a 24 hour So we started that process together. So I was able to send all those labs And they called me the following morning. And they were they said our endocrinologist So in my mind I was like, oh, cool. Finally a doctor We want to move quick. So I tell him about all of that. So I hopped on a zoom with her Her name is Doctor Irina Bianco's, and I only mention that And I sat down with her and she got on and basically said right away, We do think it's a malignant tumor I had never even heard of this cancer Never even knew there was adrenal cancer. And so a lot of people ask me like, what was your reaction when she said that? Like, didn't you go into shock? Like, And I will say, yeah, when you hear that you have like this because the cancer only affects 1 So it's extremely rare. But when you're 32 and hear that But at the same time, I had been living in this place of being undiagnosed for months I mean, my feet were so swollen I couldn't I kept tripping over my feet and falling I felt like I couldn't even go outside and and so there was a part of me and to have a diagnosis, I was just so relieved And so our plan from there was to I had my surgery done I had about seven surgeons involved. I will say the Mayo surgeon, who's, an abdominal surgeon But then there was also a vascular surgeon The tumor was the tumor It had actually. So that's about the size of a football. It had wrapped around my vena cava, to your legs and arms, which is likely why So, with adrenal cortical carcinoma, you never want to biopsy the tumor, You don't want to, like, cut it in any way And so rather than cutting the tumor off they actually cut my vena cava and then fuzed it back together right And they were able to safely extract It was ruptured a little bit at the top. Once they cut me open, they were able to see that like But they were able and they did not have to remove my kidney, But I did also have a spot on my liver So they had to cut that. And then it was touching a little part of So they had to, cut a tiny piece of my diaphragm So it was about a 6.5 hour surgery. And it was an open surgery. So I have a giant scar on my stomach, For a long time, for assuming it was allergies, when I would go to a doctor and say, I think this is allergies, because they weren't really thinking, They were just like, That's probably what it was. But in a way, I'm really grateful. I thought it was allergies because it brought me to the allergies, First of all, I don't know how much longer Like I was not in a good place. My blood pressure was super high. I was afraid I was going to have I remember one night, And then I jolted awake in bed and like, So I'm 99% sure my heart stopped at some point And so I don't really think So I am glad that and that it led me to an allergist, so when I was out in California, I started going to a acupuncturist She was amazing. And she was also very concerned. She was like, this is not normal. Like, what is like And she was the person who encouraged me and put together a timeline of events emotionally, what did you go through? And I had gone through a breakup recently But sometimes, you know, You never know. And so I was like, you know, moved back to Florida, She's like, okay, Like anything were you exposed to anything like, And I had previously lived in Thailand So I'm like, oh, Like, you don't know So she was the reason I was able And then also I put together like comparison photos, like right And then what I was looking like. So I would notice and my stomach And so I would snap picture and then just put together So eventually I ended up creating history, every doctor I had been to, any, supplements I was taking, Just like anything I also printed out pictures And then as I started getting lab work I would just include that all there so that I was like bouncing around I would just bring that with me I also think if you show up to an appointment with the binder, people And I hate to say that, but it's true. I've also listen to a lot of podcasts you shouldn't get, you know, like show up looking your worst They'll take you more seriously. And it's true, in my experience as well. And I hate that it's like that. But it it's I want to say because this is something I think It's okay to question your doctor what they're saying. You can say stuff like, First of all, it's also okay to say, like, or why aren't you testing this? Or push for a scan And then if somebody's not listening to you, it's You're paying them, you're hiring them. So if somebody's not listening And I know there is some privilege And not everybody can, like, bounce around But finding somebody who's going to listen So, with adrenal portable carcinoma, there is really only one that's a systemic treatment It's the brand name, But despite the fact that it's still very, very harsh And I want to mention that I'm on, I'm taking a chemo pill People are like, oh, that's easy. Like, This is not an easy one. It is not an easy one. So, the plan was the the advice that I got you know, and you're going to work with but we're going to review your case And also make sure that, like, these are So they told me possibly radiation, Radiation is still kind of it's There's not a lot of data for adrenal But there really have not been a lot And, you know, there are some risks So they wanted to make sure I was I was aware of that. And then they said, there also might be an option to try an IV chemo called EDP, chemo as well. And I also did make the decision There was a study done it lowered the chances of recurrence. So I and you only had about Like that's the most effective time. So I made the decision to have that. And it was 28 rounds for adrenal bed. So every day my mom and I were driving to Tampa, Florida for radiation, So I did Monday through Friday, Keep in mind, I was on that too, The radiation really, So, about three months I had my first follow up It's standard to get a scan Unfortunately, my first scan showed that And then I was complaining which my mom and I thought was a result But I was at the point like constantly because it hurt so bad so we ended up doing an two spots in my spine. We found two more spots in my spine So it was two spots on my hips a couple of lesions in my liver And then so through that, was at this time, So we I continued on the my on EDP chemo which is an infusion chemo. And then I had radiation Sbrt radiation, It's a little bit more targeted. So I had that done to all of my bone and luckily none of them have shown So we love that. But I think they said for So I like those odds. But then shortly after I was done with that radiation, I felt I thought my shoulder was broken. Like, I woke up one day It hurt so bad. And I was screaming, which like, I am not. I have a very high tolerance for pain. And I kept telling my mom, my arms broken, My arms broken. So she rushed me to my cancer center and they did an MRI of my shoulder All of my bones were stable, growing too much, but my liver lesions So we were like, okay, this isn't working. We need a new plan. And so my own colleges decided to start immunotherapy, Keytruda, which is it's not FDA approved for RCC specifically, but a lot of people And then they paired it with a chemo lenvatinib or Bima is the brand name. That's another thing. It's not approved we're seeing a lot of success So I'm in a lot of action And at the time, I didn't know that I was on. So I very much felt like a guinea pig. But it worked. So over the years I've been consulting with specialists in the country, like across the country We only have about five specialists And so for me personally, somebody who's treated at least five or, I think that's a good threshold to have. And so I had been working with, the NIH doctor, Del Rivero at the NIH and then, Doctor Filho, I went to see him for a visit. And then I also started consulting And so, no, in November, to be evaluated. I was like, you know what? Just for me and for my mental health, to just have another opinion. I'm very I'm also very, very lucky is super collaborative I think that's another problem. A lot of people, in the cancer world run into, And, sometimes physicians aren't as collaborative I'm very lucky And everybody's super duper collaborative, So I flew out to MD which included a Pet scan, And so the Pet scan revealed that They so they basically don't line up Even my lungs and liver I think with any cancer, it's so important to remember that Is your story like you have a unique case and when you simply just read an article all those details about like, okay, well, And before cancer and all of that, you know, I follow Doctor Joe Dispenza, who's doing you know, what you tell yourself in and controls your cells. And this isn't like woowoo stuff. This is data. I mean, he's collecting the research on it And so I started paying attention to his And I think that that's helped me maintain And like I said, I'm not going to say there weren't dark days, like there weren't terrible days But I also think it's a lot easier to have a more positive mindset. So, you know, I don't know. I don't, you know, tomorrow's But all I know is I'm here today. So I'm, like, doing my best to live So one thing that was really important I love to travel, and it's like such a core part of who I am. And I felt like cancer So as soon as I felt like I could start I would say, especially if you're living diagnosis, just know It's okay. I've been stage four now for two normal life. I mean, this part really has been, Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. I'm moving so much. So I knew it's. Cancer does not have to rule your life. And yes, well it's a big part of my life. It's not the center of my life. I think for a little bit, extensive treatments it's really hard at the end of the tunnel, And like you can get there with positive people who believe in you, and who make plans with you and even, I've had to cancel plans a million times, every time I make a plan, I'm not going to feel well But it's so important for me and to keep having things look forward to.