Transcriber: Matheus Guimaraes So I stand here called Aging Science, Longevity Science. Some people call it anti-aging. But what has happened in the last 25 years And thank goodness, or what I'm going to tell you tonight you would find extremely I'm on record saying that the first person and I already said that and in the last five years, something extraordinary has happened since making me think that All bets are off. And that's not just for somebody who will live definitely where the technologies that they'll have, Even 10 years from now, But those of us who were 1970s, 80s and even those will benefit from this real major advance This is also personal, In my family, I was raised My mother, also helped. But my grandmother escaped Europe having lived through, as a young girl, She was from Hungary. She escaped to Australia, and I came to MIT in my 20s. But she raised me to believe that humans can do better And she said it's partly my role to and that's what drives me and my goal since was to try and leave the world And in my teens, late teens in college, "Well, there's this thing that happens and it's 90 percent of all the sickness But no one seems to care about it" You go to your doctor and they say You should be getting sick." And I said: "That's not right." At any age, we should apply the same effort to make people live We fought against cancer, we're fighting against What about aging? And I refuse to believe that just because that we should regard it as something In my view, in my world, You see behind me an image of is the son of my grandmother My grandmother lived My grandmother smoked, drank, that was not going She died like a lot of people do, who lived through the 20th century in a It was very painful for her and certainly painful for us My father, on the other hand, has watched the science come and done the right things So at 82, he started He's looking forward to the next This is what I want for everybody. We can all do this and don't pay attention to 99% because it's all wrong. Speaking of wrong, We used to think that antioxidants and if you go to the supermarket, It's not true. Antioxidants have been really unsuccessful at lengthening the lifespan It doesn't work that well. The reason is that there's much more What we need to do is to tap into We have three main sets of defenses. One is called MTOR, responds to fasting, one called AMPK, responds You want to keep your blood sugar levels And the group of genes that I work on they respond the adversity, the exercise, the fasting. And this group of genes that the genes make, And when times are thought to be they fight harder to keep and ultimately healthier And what they're doing, these sirtuins, They're doing a lot of things, but the main thing I believe is controlling what we call the epigenome. If you haven't heard of epigenome, I'm showing you as a blue strand. There's four bases. It's base four. The epigenome is not digital, And anyone who's old enough whether it's a tape recorder, these things get disrupted. They get scratched. It's very bad, very poor And that's true for the epigenome as well. Copying epigenetic information doesn't What is the epigenome? It's the structures that wrap up the DNA and say that this gene A but in the liver cells should be off. And this gene B should be off in a skin That's the epigenome. And largely it's due to the three dimensional structures and these sirtuins that defend us are That's what sirtuins And "tu" is the number two that we showed extended lifespan, way back in Lenny Guarente's But here's the analogy that the DNA is Those of us who are old enough For the youngsters, this is what It was great technology. That's your genome, the digital It can read different songs depending in different cell types. But what I believe is causing aging skipping of the reader. And what makes songs skip? Scratches. So aging is essentially scratches on a and eventually cells, skipping the wrong genes, lose They lose their function. We get dementia, we get heart disease, That is aging. So with this new theory of what I call we can perhaps test this by testing And if that's true, is it possible to reset these structures Is there a backup copy of the epigenome? In other words, can you polish that CD and Before I go on I want to point out something really important It's not just the proteins but the modifications Chemical additions called methyls, Methyls are carbons with three hydrogen. They're very simple. And cells add them as we're developing that cell that's come from stem cells for 80, 90, 100 years in the brain. And this one should be a skin cell. These marks, called methyls, dictate Many of them have even though they have the same set of What's been found since 2013, Steven Horvath and his colleagues the changes over time of these that are attached to the letter you can estimate somebody's biological We're all aging due to the same mechanisms and that there's a pattern until we're born and then slows down, and then is linear We can measure that clock. I can take your blood, I can take and I can run that through a DNA there's thousands of them. And putting that into a I can tell you your actual real age, I mean, birthdays? Who cares? Number of times the Earth went around What your real age is, that determine how old you really are. So the question is if we tweak the if I'm right about the Information We'll get accelerated aging. This is a mouse. So we tweak this mouse in every other way, At the same time, we took a sibling and we for three weeks accelerated We disrupted its epigenome and The mouse didn't feel it. It's like getting an X-ray, but what happened 10 months later This isn't just a mouse that looks old. This mouse is 50% older than its sibling, These are twins born at the same time. One is old and one is not. We can drive Then the question is, if you can give And if I'm right, the answer is yes. First of all, let me show you about We found these sirtuins can but they can also reverse aspects either giving them molecules that plants produce when and survive. We call these xenohormetins. We have drugs that have been We have more that are coming. We have one in particular that's NAD is a fuel for the sirtuins, whereas So giving the fuel to these mice, One of these mice has been on the called NMN: Nicotinamide Mono Nucleotide. Hopefully you can guess which of them These are really old mice. They are almost two years of age, and only one of them has been drinking If you pick the mouse (Laughter) It's the mouse on the left, obviously. And we published in the Journal Cell to rejuvenate and make it younger, through the sirtuins. We know it works for this sirtuins you don't get this effect But that was just We're now in a world where our technology We now have the ability to reset leading to one day being able to reset What did we do? We really stood Shinya Yamanaka, who won for discovering a set of embryonic genes that could take and turn it into a pluripotent stem cell that could be made into and we can do that in the lab. High school students can do this Now we found that if you put in a subset short for OSK, we could take the age but not so far that it would become This was published in December 2020. It made the cover of Nature Magazine, and the title on the magazine This is one of the pieces of data The first was to damage and you can see on the top image That orange stain should extend But in the reprogrammed eye and turn them on for three weeks, We measured those neurons that they were three weeks ago. And young nerves, as you might know, So this was the first indication We also could see those scratches on the CD, they went away. We can also grow human tissue in the lab. We don't know yet if this works in humans, These are human pluripotent stem cells that have been engineered On the left of this image, These are quite similar to human brains. and on the right is the electrodes We can measure that. We think they dream. They have thoughts, and we can also age them using our And now we've shown that if you reset they get their ability to think again. The electrical activity comes back. Does this mean one day you'll get your memory back? Possibly. We can rejuvenate their brains, and they get their ability to learn again. So you might say, well, sounds great, but how long is this going And my hope is that we're as important as flight and Silicon Valley The 22nd century is going and the ability to control and slow down not just body aging With these tools and age reversal tools that are just coming along will radically in a way that we can barely even imagine, and where we can reset our which is now being published, that's been If we do that every year, even just set what happens? Things then get really interesting. And that's the world that we have to And if we all do the right things, Thank you very much. (Applause)