Hello everyone, today I share how to propagate orchids from flower branches that anyone can do at home and these flower branches right at these locations, the plant will be revived very quickly. Please cut in here if you need to. Use 1 clove of garlic and apply it to this part of the flower branch to help keep the cut from getting infected. Use 2 cloves of garlic. Garlic helps orchids bud and grow very quickly. Cut them into small pieces and add all this garlic. Put the jar in 500 ml of water. You will leave it for 4 hours. Cut it again to avoid damaging the cut. Make a diagonal cut here to make it easier to absorb water. Remove the shell and use it. Use a candle , put the wax in here, it will help make the cut waterproof and not dry after 4 hours . Filter this water , put the orchid branch here and add this water and leave for 30 minutes. Use the moss for this. Add this garlic water to disinfect the growing medium and leave it for 30 minutes , then take the orchid branch out and use a washed plastic bottle. Only use this part. Put the moss in and place the orchid branch in like this. a plastic cup and add water when there is little water, you will add more and place it like this, the water will be guided up to help keep this part moist but not too wet, place it in a light and airy place, Use sealed plastic lids to cover like this. Use the remaining water to care for orchids. Use every two weeks. It will help prevent orchids from being infected with fungus and insects and help the plants. The leaves are protected to be greener and more effective, which will help keep the leaves greener and stronger, healthier. Watering the growing medium will help the roots to be protected. Results after the next 4 weeks the small orchid has been planted. Revived with this simple method, the flower branches will grow very quickly. This is one of the very simple and easy methods to help small orchids from flower branches grow faster. You need to be patient with With these methods, you only need to add a little water like this and continue to put it here, cover it and leave it in the same position after the next 3 months, small orchids from flower branches are growing very well with this simple method. This simple and very easy method will make it very easy to create small orchids, orchids will grow very well with this simple and very easy method, a great method to easily create growing orchids . grow quickly and at this stage it will be very reassuring to replant the tree. This small orchid will grow faster when replanted in an outside environment. I have shared many subtitles, you can watch and choose. choose the most suitable subtitles and replant with pine bark, add a little moss here Hello everyone, today I share how to very quickly root an orchid, which anyone can do when you There are orchids that have a single leaf left, but the leaves here are rotten. These leaves contain a lot of bacteria and fungi. The roots of the plant are all damaged. Cut this part here and this part. , all the roots cannot recover because the roots have rotted a lot, these leaves should be isolated from healthy plants and rotten leaves, let's remove this remaining leaf from the plant. very healthy, wash thoroughly and dry thoroughly. Use rice that contains a lot of Vitamin B. Use 4 small spoons in 1 liter of water. Use 1 clove of garlic. It will have very good antibacterial and disinfectant properties for orchids. And crush it and mix it with this rice water, it will create a very good organic nutrition for orchids and filter this water and use a soft cotton pad to wipe this leaf, it will help the leaf recover. recovers very quickly, free from fungus and insects and is supplemented with the most complete nutrients through the leaves . Place the leaf here like this. Put this water in and soak this root for 30 minutes. After 30 minutes , take it out and put it in a cool place for 1 day. After 1 day, this root will be dry again, this is a condition for you to recover the plant more easily. Use the lid of a plastic cup and cut it like I used a soft piece of absorbent cotton , place it in this hole and place it here. Place the orchid stem and add water . You need to note that this stem part is not exposed. With water, this part will absorb water to help keep the base of the plant moist but not too wet. Just check to add water and if the water is dirty, change the water and place it in a light, airy place. Spray mist every 4 days to help. Very good support to help the leaf not wilt after the next 50 days, the roots have grown very healthy with this method. This simple method will be very easy to restore healthy roots for orchids whose roots always grow very well. healthy, you can see more from the methods that I have shared on the Channel. A very wonderful method, the young leaves have also developed more, green and very healthy, the leaves are very strong, now You can rest assured to replant it to help this orchid plant grow faster. You can see more with the subtitles that I have shared on the Channel. Hello everyone, today I am sharing a prize. This is a very quick way to symbiotically grow rotten orchids. Orchids that are rotten and have withered leaves like this, you need to check carefully because the growing medium is wet or These roots are infected with fungus, leading to the plant rotting very quickly. Remove the old growing medium and cut off the damaged and rotten roots. Keep the good roots and wash them thoroughly. Because if you do not clean this root part , it will be very difficult for the tree to recover and cannot be revived because these black parts will greatly affect the recovery process of the tree and need to be dried again . When it's green, don't remove these parts so it will protect the top part to develop better and leave the plant in a cool place for 1 day to use garlic. Garlic has antioxidant, antibacterial, and disinfectant properties that help orchids. revives very quickly, use 4 cloves of garlic and cut them into small pieces, put all these garlic in a jar, add 1 liter of water , add honey, use 1 small spoon of honey which has antibacterial properties and adds many nutrients, helping the plant recover. recover very quickly , cover and leave in a cool place for 1 day after 1 day, when this root has completely dried, it will be very reassuring to help the plant recover faster and these flower branches should be cut off to concentrate nutrients. To help this top develop better, cut slanted cuts here, small plants will be revived right at these positions , then filter this water and place the base of the orchid and these two flower branches, for This water will be left like this for 30 minutes. Use the remaining water to care for other orchids , so applying it every two weeks will help keep these orchids free of fungus and insects . Orchid plants are always greener and healthier. Applying this method every 14 days to orchids will help the plants have very healthy roots and new roots will also grow very quickly after 30 minutes. You take it out and I have shared this method on the channel. The orchids will be revived from these parts of the flower branches and will grow very well and stay healthy with this method. Continue to put the part here. This is the water to replant with pine bark. Do not water the plant for 4 days. After 4 days, add a little moss here to help the plant pot stay moist. Add water to help the planting medium and the plant's roots stay moist . After 15 minutes, take it out and use plastic cups to make holes here to help the plants Prevents insects and retains moisture better than normal days, only water when the growing medium is dry, do not water too much, only water enough to moisten like this, then cover and place in a light, airy place . After the next 4 weeks, the orchid has been restored. The small tree from the base has grown very healthy. The roots have also developed better with this method. At this stage, I will share more feeding methods to help This orchid grows faster and easier. You only use a single clove of garlic and then crush it and add 1 teaspoon of honey to 1 liter of water . Filter this water and water the base of the plant for 14 days. Once will help our orchids grow very quickly and become healthier. Continue to cover and put them in the same position. This is the time after the next 3 months orchids have recovered and developed very well. good and healthy roots are very strong. With this simple and very easy method, I have many more subtitles for you to see and choose the most suitable subtitles. At this stage, you won't need to cover it anymore. Expose the plant to light and it will grow better when in the outside environment, add a little moss here to help the roots stay moist, the plant will grow faster and more sustainably than expected from the above methods. This simple and very easy will always help you so that we can always restore and grow more orchids for easier propagation. Don't forget to like, share, subscribe to the Channel and press the bell for convenience. monitor. Hello and see you again. Wishing you success always