Munich, March 2012. In the district of Schwabing, the apartment of an 80-year-old recluse is about to be raided. Little did people know would open up a Pandora's box and Hitler's own private museum. Cornelius Gurlitt is not a name as someone who lived in a very modest flat. He's a bit of an enigma. He was a loner, He was a very interesting man. It wouldn't be surprising and some effect from that. He wasn't seen much out and about and was someone He's really lived As the investigators poured of this solitary man, they uncovered over a thousand works by the likes of Matisse, some of which were previously unknown. There are things we don't know Where has that been for the last 60 years? Which is it exactly He lived a pathetic, I wonder if it's all true. When the story was broken it captured the world's attention. Who was Cornelius Gurlitt? How had he stayed undetected for so long? Just where The answer to all of these questions in eastern Germany in 1930. Zwickau was the hometown Hildebrand Gurlitt. He came from a well-known artistic family and worked in the galleries Hildebrand Gurlitt was and he worked for various German museums. He was known as being someone with the avant-garde's art world With a lot of the modern The first exhibition he put which was quite alternative at that time. He worked with other artists A lot of the expressionists. He was seen as really quite radical. A lot of people enjoyed the exhibitions, but the local traditionalists who had come in However, with the Nazis and Hitler's hatred Hildebrand found himself and forced by the Nazis he'd found in Hamburg soon after. Hildebrand was not welcome Modern art was declared and culminated in the Entartete Kunst, or so-called The Nazis the avant-garde in Germany at that time. It's a testament It was a genuine worry for them. They wanted to outlaw it and ban it and also use it, I think, If you're against our regime, You'll be mad When Hitler, in order to try and focus the German nation's psyche on its future, purity, and superiority, and he wanted to connect the German nation he ordered an exhibition They mounted two exhibitions There was one of German art At the same time, down the road in Munich, which actually had more visitors There was a huge exhibition with paintings that they despised, presented with slogans against modern art, This exhibition attracted which is an amazing number and it then went on but it's most unusual to hold I think a lot who had been closely linked found it hard very scornful saying how horrendous all this work was. Can you imagine if somebody put on a show of accepted British art now You go to the one you're not allowed There were many people who went to see it, It was absolute chaos in there. Everything was hung Paintings were lopsided. Some were unframed and some were framed, and they had graffiti Even if you couldn't figure it yourself, whereas in the other exhibition, representing classicism and longevity. All the things that Hitler Four times as many people it was the kunsthalle show. Maybe Hitler was a secret modernist. He exposed more Germans to modern art than would ever have seen The Entartete Kunst Exhibition was organized by the Ministry headed by Joseph Goebbels. [German spoken audio] Some went to look at it because they thought There had been where they'd burned works It was maybe a death knell to those A lot of people who sympathized went. At the same time, a lot of people went There were several reasons the so-called degenerate art. Hitler himself was very conventional and disliked modern art. Some of the artists who made modern art, and the Nazis There was also a very strong streak They espoused old-fashioned and modern art The era of degenerate art may have ended Hildebrand Gurlitt's but he had even more pressing concerns. He had Jewish blood in him, which would've made He was what they called He was a quarter Jewish. It was probably better to play along. Hildebrand's heritage would've seemingly ended any chance but amazingly, he was hired by the Nazis to work as a dealer When the Nazis he was singled out who were entrusted That's how he got and he was quite interested in modern art. He was able because of his understanding and other collectors and become one of the main individuals He went on to work with the Nazis as one of four dealers who were charged out of the modernist or degenerate art, There's a quote that says, &quot;We've got to make money They just wanted to get it out of Germany, sell it off, He would argue by selling it off to foreign collectors rather than allowing Hildebrand had a talent and he was soon buying pieces directly as they were being persecuted This is my offer It is a fair offer, I believe. Good. Good. I'll arrange collection It's very difficult It was a very difficult period. People did things that we would now regard The art will be safe, at least. -Is it the art that you're saving? They've already dismissed me If they think I have a family. I'm a quarter Jewish. One doesn't know precisely but the most obvious reason This was a very comfortable, easy life that got him out of all the problems and the money must've been unless you were in the armaments business, I'll send my man Doctor. Hildebrand Gurlitt would soon become one of the biggest dealers The choice he had made where his mission was to acquire works from Nazi-occupied France. The 2012 Munich artworks discovery had thrown light on the life who had acquired the collection, He had started out but with the Nazis coming to power, he became a key part of the commission Works were bought directly and were seized Hildebrand was able as he worked to sell these from where they were stored In the process, he was able to hoard This is how a number of paintings who featured heavily wound up Otto Dix was heavily featured. Obviously, his work is shocking visually People saw it as horrifying why he would choose to represent During the First World War, and a lot of his pictures The Nazis despised and he was categorized as such. Another artist that was interestingly who actually had been and a real sympathizer but he was the artist He had 27 works and he was the one that said, &quot;I'm a Nazi sympathizer There's a very sad story about him. After the exhibition, &quot;I'm a sympathizer, please, They refused. He had important crucifixion work, despite his allegiance to the party. The label &quot;degenerate&quot; with an Entartete Musik Exhibition It was a bizarre and terrifying time and Hildebrand Gurlitt I think we all want to see the Nazi epoch and a lot of people and before the war, He was passionate about modernism. The next thing you know, from Paul Rosenberg and the Rothschilds It was in Paris of his new position of power. The Entartete Kunst Exhibition had made some of the best but with the Nazis some of the greatest art of the era Paris has always been particularly in the 20th century, so it's no surprise that a German dealer and close contacts with Paris The best out of all He'd managed to escape just in time, but the same could not be said He's an incredibly important dealer so he really had it in his lineage. He was most famously Picasso's dealer He and Picasso were like family. They lived next door to each other It was a love thing. He was also He really had the big names. His gallery was on Rue La Boetie, and it was really known of these modern artists You could find them all there Rosenberg particularly in modernist works and the post-impressionist He was among the most important dealers He was Mr. Cubism, wasn't he? He and his brother Leonce and they internationalized it. They opened a gallery in London and they sold to the Museum of Modern Art. They had massive collections When things became more tense in Europe, he started to get nervous which was very extensive. It went to South America, Australia, and also to London but unfortunately, In 1940, he fled to New York, managed to get a visa, but there were over 2,000 works left. Paul Rosenberg's confiscated collection, along with all other art was stored at the Jeu De Paume Hildebrand Gurlitt at knockdown prices Many sales were made and that continued It was a place to trade in the work of the impressionists Between 1941 and 1945, while Gurlitt was living he was able to add top-quality paintings but as the tide of the war he needed to find As chaos reigned from about the early 1944 period when it was clear that the war was lost there were a lot of people thinking about how they'd survive and for somebody like him to move art to secret locations where he could say but he was keeping it for himself Having noted the warning signs, and managed to relocate away from his home in Dresden. They were kept on a farm outside Dresden, in some nameless town It doesn't seem to be It seems like an expedient one. It looks like the kind of collection and not raise too many eyebrows. It was fortunate that Hildebrand was able to get the works away given what was about to happen. With the Allies approaching, the firebombing of Dresden He had a home in Dresden, so I think Hildebrand saw it as an obvious I think they said, 'Our street was bombed. &quot;We don't have anything.&quot; &quot;We have no letters, we've got nothing.&quot; It made sense because it was bombed, and no one knew that Hildebrand at the very last minute There was no reason Hildebrand Gurlitt He had been hired and in the process, His pretense was successful. For over half a century, the hoard was considered and it would've remained so not tried to sell one of his paintings a sale that would see on this 60-year-old crime. The firebombing of Dresden found in Cornelius Gurlitt's but his father, Hildebrand Gurlitt, had been smart enough of over a thousand When World War II came to an end, with storing these artworks thought to be on the outskirts of Dresden. He was able to return but died suddenly in a car crash in 1956. His son Cornelius then succeeded into the Schwabing apartment in 1960. They remained here for over 50 years, Cornelius would take the paintings It does seem The son enjoyed them privately and saw no reason why he should sell them The status quo continued, and he just took over Anybody who is the son of somebody with as extraordinary and the constant moves and worked for both the Nazis must have known that his father That may well, I think, Cornelius had remained hidden from society but with no state health insurance he was forced and sell one of his paintings Spending so much time alone, Cornelius was known to write when faced with a conversation. Good afternoon. This is the painting that I wish to sell. Good afternoon. This is the painting that I wish to sell. Cornelius decided to part the Lion Tamer, because he was getting increasingly ill, he just decided to sell one The auction house sent a representative, and she came in expecting, to a very gloomy, dark flat. Mr. Gurlitt, I'm Miss Bauman We spoke on the phone. Yes, come in. She had no inkling How did you come by it? Was it in your family? My mother's. -Don't you have any more then? This is the painting that I wish to sell. When it was taken it was very clearly in the provenance. His father's name was up in lights, and his father's name Any picture we see anywhere we undertake extensive research. It would've been that this picture of the victims The normal thing is to contact the family and tell them and there's a deal that could be done Whether they knew at the time under which he'd held it They probably thought he got it That's highly debatable now, I think. He made an arrangement so they agreed to split the proceeds, and it went on the market and wasn't particularly closely examined. I would like to know before Hildebrand died and how much of that in the intervening years. By selling The Lion Tamer, Cornelius had started the process He was merely following the example who had been expected to generate funds but he also had another major role: to purchase, or otherwise acquire, Hitler had grand plans in his hometown of Linz, and he needed His desire to make a mark in the art world when he first moved to Vienna in 1905. When he was young, and he applied to study and was turned down twice. He was rejected straight out so he got a slap in the face from that. He felt rejected I think that made him and by this time, as supporting the development He did believe not specifically against him people with his kind of taste, deranged Jewish Bolshevik folk Vienna, at the start was the home that Hitler simply did not fit into. In Vienna, there was no doubt there was a very libertarian, It was quite clear the Austro-Hungarian Empire I think it's what had happened You had an imperial heavy hand suddenly, in the case of the French, In Vienna, poor old Franz Joseph It was also the city of Sigmund Freud because the one thing all of these things and an idea of the possibility of madness. That went down They didn't like that at all. I think in Vienna, what was incredible was the mix The birth of atonal music You had You had artists like Klimt showing an emotional response to art. It was about the internal It was coming from all directions, It was a real hotbed and new way of seeing and thinking. There was some great work There was great work done in psychology, but you can see a lot of people and a bit unsettling. There was some, in many ways, great art, but what would be to them, and even now, It was very exciting, Culturally, who were really pushing the boundaries. In Vienna at the time in the early 20th century, there was quite a conflict and the traditional art, Hitler's traditional style, which included watercolors was not going to cut it but his enormous political success allowed Hitler with the construction of the Fuhrer Musem The Fuhrer Museum which was the hometown of Hitler, this enormous pantheon It would be an art museum, a library, opera house, theater, and everything to do would be here in this enormous, He's not the only man. He's not the only megalomaniac man who has seen to have your name set for posterity. As ambitious it was actually only a part of the grand restructuring Quite early on in 1936, he had already spoken It was going to be 500 feet long, a lot of columns, peristyles. All the usual Nazi claptrap. He poured over the plans and then he went on a rampage taking works A lot of religious art even in Germany, and stored at that time, There was a degree of thought into it because it was going to be It was going to have a collection of art history leading to Germany. Every single masterpiece would be housed here in that museum. People would come The Adolf Hitler Hotel because they must have somewhere One of the people entrusted with acquiring works was Hildebrand Gurlitt. During his time in Paris, who acquired major works. He even spent five million francs of the Vallee de l'Arc, However, he wasn't alone Dr. Hans Posse, was tasked with seizing including works by Johannes Vermeer. Hitler's taste ran mostly to German so I imagine there would've been a lot and that sort of stuff, was a great expert in Netherlandish There were two Vermeers, for example, and there were going to be a lot If you're going to find a museum, if it's going to be some of the great Dutch There were two masterpieces by Vermeer one of which was bought Now the bought one a very important work by Vermeer. Hitler bought that directly from Count Czernin for a lot of money, It's still a case The other was stolen as part of the hoard taken from them. The Fuhrer Museum along with other grand schemes never got past the design stage. However, many artworks ready to be moved in. They had been stored in Munich, the hall was moved for safekeeping to a salt mine They were boxed up and sent there, When the war in Europe came to an end, the Allies managed to track down Inside, they were able to recover both The Astronomer They also managed to reclaim and the priceless Ghent Altarpiece, all of which were taken The Ghent Altarpiece was a seminal work, by van Eyck, and it set a tone that makes it but I think the most valuable painting were those various Vermeers Even for Hitler, getting hold of Vermeers It's just really very fortunate There were a lot of very good pictures, There are records and it's known that that place was bombed, and the pictures were destroyed. Just as Hitler's secret hoard time was running out in his Munich apartment. A trip to Switzerland Until 2010, Cornelius Gurlitt's remarkable cache was still unknown to the world. He had managed to successfully sell The Lion Tamer painting but his luck started to run out when he was stopped at a customs point Gurlitt was on a train and he was stopped who were just doing routine checks, and he was found to have He had on him 9,000 euros, which is under the limit of what you have This was the train from Zurich to Munich. Then they looked for his identity papers, and he appeared to be Hence, the Germans then raided his flat. He had no tax references He's someone who's been completely They were quite surprised to find him I think they thought, &quot;Why is this old man As I say, but it raised questions. It must've flagged him up I would not be at all surprised if, of those individuals who are Germans There have been who gave these lists of names to the American I wonder whether they hadn't spotted him, When will you bring them back? Finding 1,400 works of art in Germany The cramped London offices have been besieged ever since of works by masters such as Marc Chagall, The race is now on What is unusual Fourteen hundred pictures and drawings. Ranging from works on paper It's got a lot of German expressionists. People like Emil Nolde and Max Pechstein, It's really quite broad, and it's said to have a value It's unfortunate for about a year or so, and it only emerged later discovered what had happened I say it's important to come out, but if there are claimants it's important so we know what's out there. At least one of the works a Matisse painting of a Seated Woman, is thought to have belonged There's been criticism on the case that there hasn't been which is against the established policy The family of Paul Rosenberg is already questioning The recovery process has been long and arduous. It started right at the end Lieutenant Rosenberg who was the Parisian dealer at the start of the war and who had been the dealer Picasso, and people like that. He found some of his father's pictures and it's fascinating. There are still 70 Picassos missing and a lot of Paul Rosenberg's collection That's a separate part of history is Anne Sinclair. She's a wonderful lady, and she's pursuing the pictures and is actively involved in that You can see this evolution If it belongs to Ann Sinclair the descendants of Paul Rosenberg, However, just six months Cornelius Gurlitt passed away During that time, it was discovered in two properties he owned in Austria. These included works by Renoir and Monet. In a surprising twist, though, revealed they'd been named the sole heir despite him having had no connection However, the restitution process of many could continue for a long time. It's extremely complex and trying to figure out and in what circumstances they went and into the hands of Hildebrand Gurlitt. It's going to be a lot of research, and who knows how long it'll take and if we'll ever know the full history I think one of the lessons of this and people buying at auctions have to ask This is happening more now, and there's been increasing focus but I think the Gurlitt case shows and people asking questions. By and large, the rule of thumb, is that if the Nazis between the mid-30s and 1946, It's a principle. It's not anybody's law It's just a modern principle, Could there be any more Cornelius Gurlitts just waiting to be found? To get into the 21st century and for these things still to be coming up I don't think they'll be everywhere. There are a lot of people but something of this scale I think it's unlikely who've got something I think this is a one-off, and the fact he was such but it certainly won't be something It will probably take years and what category they fall into, and the whole saga