What's up branding experts! -- Arek here at Ebaqdesign. And in this video we gonna to talk about how a brand's personality. So that you can give your or your client's and relatable to audiences who share the same Now if you're new to the channel and you want design. Well then smash that subscribe button and My name is Arek Dvornechuck and at Ebaqdesign my mission is to help people design iconic brands. Ok, so before we talk about how each and every first let's quickly define what the archetypal framework actually is and where it comes from. So archetypes were a concept introduced by of people, behaviors, or personalities. Archetypes, he suggested, were inborn tendencies So basically we can identify ourselves with And they are successfully used in film, books, In branding the archetypal framework helps So archetypes are actually the heartbeat of makes customers relate to a brand as if it They help you define a brand's personality relationship with that brand and care about So brands who adapt the Carl Jung's archetypal And best brand personas are forged by identifying And this is very important to not dilute your identify with too many archetypes... Remember, brands do best when they are explicit their values, mission, and vision and of course the And then of course, you can use some secondary Check out the 7th exercise of my Brand how to actually use this archetypal framework to Ok so we have 12 archetypes divided into 4 sections that group them based on common desires. And now I will describe each archetype and 3 examples in branding and 1 example in film So that you can relate and understand how Ok, so the first section is all about exploring and we've got here Innocent, Sage and Explorer. They all have yearning for paradise. They want to be connected with the Earth on So starting with the Innocent Archetype... The Innocent is a positive personality with Their motto is: Free to be you and me. The Innocent also may be known as utopian, Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump depicts the Innocent They often want to go back to nature and natural They're honest and pure and they have no ill-will Ultimately they want themselves and everyone The Innocent's core desire is to experience And they fear doing something wrong or bad In branding, the Innocent archetype is best Famous brands that use the Innocent archetype: Aveeno and Dove are both skin care products They also adopt a simplistic persona that Whole foods are also about their natural, Now, the second archetype with the core desire The Sage is a seeker of truth, knowledge and Their motto is: The truth will set you free. They're also known as expert, scholar, advisor, They have a desire not only to understand but also share that understanding with others. They are lifelong learners that enjoy expressing In film there's no character that personifies The Sage's core desire is the discovery of And they fear ignorance and being duped or In branding, the Sage archetype is best for: News Networks, Schools &amp; Universities and Consultancies. The sage brand might aim to show the path To connect with with them, emphasize that and wisdom is where the answers lie. Famous brands that use the Sage archetype: Google has become the world's biggest online information to any topic in the world can And though they rarely provide the answers to find the answers that they need. Now, the third archetype with the core desire The Explorer has this thirst for discovery Their motto is: You only get one life. Make it count. The Explorer also may be known as the seeker, Rugged environment is the one they feel most They don't want to be fenced in and they often A true explorer in film would be Harrison The Explorer's core desire is to find out And they fear getting trapped, conforming, In branding, the Explorer archetype is best To resonate with an explorer a brand might or acknowledge the modern confinements of society. Brands communicating with an exciting, fearless Famous brands that use the Explorer archetype: Each one of these brands celebrates the outdoors of adventure within their audiences. Any outdoor activity such as camping, fishing, rock climbing, cave diving etc. Promote the unknown as the land of the free, to explore it with your brand, of course. Ok, so the second section is all about leaving and we've got here: Outlaw, Magician and Hero. They all want to leave a mark on the World. They want to make an impact, and do something So let's start with the Outlaw archetype. The Outlaw has the enticement of forbidden Their motto is: Rules are meant to be broken. They are romantic figures, ready to disrupt tyranny, repression, conformity, or cynicism. Certainly, we see the Outlaw in its most positive And in the most negative form -- typical like in Superman or Batman: Lex Luthor or the Joker. The Outlaw's core desire is for: revenge or And they fear being powerless, trivialized In branding, the Outlaw archetype is best Famous brands that use the Outlaw archetype Harley Davidson is the typical outlaw brand and probably the most focused archetypal personality that there is. They represent the outlaw persona to an absolute and appeal to the inner outlaw within their audience. Now, the next archetype with the core desire The Magician have dreams that other people Their motto is: Anything can happen! Magic is the technology for making dreams The Magician can be known as the visionary, shaman, healer, or medicine man or woman. Sometimes the magic is just in the energy Witness the remarkable success of the Energizer which seems magical because it "keeps going and going." Magician brands include all those that foster something that others see as impossible. The Magician's core desire is to make dreams And they fear unanticipated negative consequences. In branding, the Magician archetype is best And any brand that delivers some kind of element Famous brands that use the Magician archetype: Disney is the typical brand when it comes The opening credits for their movies have Ok, so the last archetype with the core desire So the Hero just wants to make the world a The motto is: Where there's a will, there's Everything seems lost, but then the Hero rides In every story the Hero triumphs over evil, and in so doing, inspires us all. The hero wants to save the day and to prove They always make efforts to rescue the victim They're willing to work harder than everybody The Hero's core desire is to prove one's And they fear weakness, vulnerability or "wimping In branding, the Hero archetype is best for: Famous brands that use the Hero archetype Nike is the stand out here, when it comes They've been using many athletes in their And the association with these athletes tap Nike inspires people through the achievements Ok, so the third section is all about connecting and we've got here: Lover, Jester and Everyman. They're all about having meaningful relationships Whether is romance and love, mother love, They just want to be around people. So let's start with the Lover archetype. Lover is all about being in a relationship the experiences, the surroundings they love. Their motto is: I only have eyes for you. Lovers may be known as partners, friends, sensualists, spouses, team builders and harmonizers. The lover archetype is also frequently used and Marilyn Monroe personifies the lover in Some Like It Hot. And love pertains to all sorts of human love, But it is most important to romantic The Lover's core desire is to attain intimacy And they fear being alone, a wallflower, unwanted In branding, the Lover archetype is best for: Any brand that implicitly promises beauty Famous brands that use the Lover archetype: Victoria's Secret is the most obvious example They're a lingerie brand so their messaging with that sensuality especially in their colors and imagery. Ok, so the next archetype with the core desire And the Jester is all about having fun and Their motto is: If I can't dance, I don't The Jester also may be known as the Fool, clown, prankster, or comedian. Or basically anyone at all who loves to play In film probably nobody plays the Jester as An optimist that is able to see good in every Jesters are young at heart and they seem to The Jester's core desire is to live in the And they fear boredom or being boring. So if you want to resonate with a jester, In branding, the Jester archetype is best Confectionery, Child Entertainment or Beer Brands. Everybody likes to lough, so in general having can be a memorable point of differentiation. If you're able to connect with their audience you can become a much loved brand. Famous brands that use the Jester archetype: The Jester and humor in general are go-to Especially if the brands are associated in Ok, so the last archetype with the core desire The Everyman demonstrates the virtues of simply Their motto is: All people are created equal. The Everyman may also be known as the good the common man or the solid citizen next door. In film this archetype is probably best represented They dress in ordinary clothes (even if they're and they are easily put off by elitism in any form. The Everyman's core desire is to connect with they want nothing more than just simply to belong. And they fear standing out or being rejected In branding, the Everyman archetype is best Home / Family, Everyday Apparel and Family Auto. Any brand that appeal to a humble man who To appeal to an everyman you need to make Be friendly and down-to-earth in communication Famous brands that use the Everyman archetype: Regular guy/gal brands almost always have no-nonsense quality to them that makes them seem genuine. These brands are usually affordable when it and they just fill some basic needs. They often fill a void in market and they low-cost for most industries. Ok, so the last and fourth section is all and we've got here: Caregiver, Ruler and Creator. And they all want to provide structure to They desire to build something that wasn't in their own name or in the name of others. Ok, so let's start with the Caregiver archetype. Caregiver is has a selfless personality and to protect and care for others. Their motto is: Love your neighbor as yourself. The Caregiver also may be known as the caretaker, They simply take those who are in need under to take care of themselves. Although they like their efforts to be recognized A good example in movie might be Robin Williams The Caregiver's core desire is to protect And they fear selfishness and ingratitude. In branding, the Caregiver archetype is best The character of the Caregiver archetype is A caregiver brand's aim is to make their customers And some of the famous brands that use the for example: Unicef, WWF and Toms Shoes. UNICEF and WWF are both non-for-profits and one for people, the other for wildlife. And although TOMS shoes is a profitable brand, They provide a pair of shoes to someone in Ok, so the next archetype with the core desire The Ruler knows that the best thing to do Their motto is: Power isn't everything. It's the only thing. The Ruler is the boss, the leader, the corporate or anyone with a commanding and authoritative manner. Films are absolutely packed with lives and the character Don Corleone in The Godfather. Ruler archetype desires control above all Gaining and maintaining power is therefore Their actions carry a sense of this intimidation The Ruler's core desire is to create a successful And they fear chaos and being overthrown. In branding, the Ruler archetype is best for: To resonate with a ruler your brand should A commanding, refined and articulate brand as would messaging reaffirming their status. Some of the famous brands that use the Ruler And these are three different industries, language and messaging that depict luxurious lifestyle. So the Ruler brands tend to serve higher society Ok, and the last archetype with the desire The Creator archetype is seen in any endeavor They have passion for self-expression in material Their motto is: If it can be imagined, it The Creator may also be known as the artist, inventor, musician, writer, or dreamer. The Creator always wants to create something They fell constant need to express themselves They all have a vision and strive to bring The Creator's core desire is to create something And they fear having a mediocre vision or In branding, the Creator archetype is best To appeal to a creator you have to celebrate as well as inspire self-expression. Creator brands tend to have loyal followers, to be better creatives themselves. Famous brands that use the Creator archetype: I use all of these three brands every single Apple and Adobe I use throughout the day for Ok, so that's about it -- we've discussed so that hopefully you understand now how to So If you want to build a brand that makes -- chose an archetype they will be attracted to. It doesn't mean that you must have the exact but rather the one that they are attracted to. And if you want to learn more and see even Hero and The Outlaw", link in the description. And if you want to build a brand the strategic using the archetypal framework -- then check So this is what Carl Jung discovered and believed that we as individuals can identify ourselves with at least one core archetype. So archetypes help as, a brand builders instill a character and a human like persona. And ultimately brands who have defined their are the ones that are so effective at branding. Do you have any idea now of what kind of archetype -- Leave a comment below. But anyways, I would love to hear from you when it comes to defining your brand personality. Have you used brand archetypes before? Do you have any challenges of identifying Leave a comment below and I will do my best And if you like this video please give it and hit the notification bell as well to let Then head on over to Ebaqdesign.com/blog/brand-strategy and check out my new guide to brand strategy. Because brand personality is just one component But anyways, let me know in the comments below Until next time -- This was Arek Dvornechuck from Ebaqdesign