It's said you are what you eat. Keeping this in mind, I have What's so special about These people really live Some of the 60 year-olds That is, Which is considered the Mecca 200 km from Mumbai. 150 km away from Surat. I've decided to In various historical texts, the holy fire is the oldest continuously This is the same fire brought from Iran, No doubt today the village But in this silence are about the Parsi community. That is what Parsi history and the Parsi food history Hence, I found a special celebrity who knows of all the events Archaeologist and Chef Kurush Dalal. He is a living encyclopedia Udvada, the village, was not During the Mughal rule, the armed It was a pass over for It was 'Oont Vada' Around 13000 years ago, Parsis came from Iran via the sea. There was a lot of religious They decided to leave Iran When they came to India, whose name was Jadi Rana. They went to the king's &quot;We are refugees King Jadi Rana maybe didn't of such a big tribe What could he do? He presented He brought a big bowl of milk, He said, this bowl of milk is completely filled to the brim, Then, they took out some crystals and mixed it with the milk. They said, My Lord, we blend into the milk you won't even realise, and we will make sure As I was saying, was given a promise that they will blend in They said they'll adopt the Indian That's what they did. has also been completely adopted The vegetables that we get here, A little sweetness - That's there, too. Udvada is a village, that other Parsis have forgotten. Amazing. Thank you. Knowing about the history, the Parsi community, I am eager this community, My eagerness to know is equal to my eagerness and people believe that, who knows a lot that is Zenobia Sidhwa. [Chanting Prayer] Around 250 years ago, with the holy fire. From the beginning itself now her brother are Head Priests or they have always So that's why, [Chanting Prayer] - Hi, how are you? - Good to see you. See I have come at... Yes, you have come at an auspicious - Okay, wonderful. Good time, then. - Okay, lovely. That is why we do this prayer - Okay. Please come. With her, the hands of the clock That is because, she is going to that has been lost now. - Ms. Zenobia... I understood one thing, so that you could get me - You are making me grate coconut. Nothing gained - So I am grating the coconuts. But, I still don't have any idea The lost recipe, lost technique. What we are cooking today - is called 'Bhujelo Bhing'. The technique that we will use The wood used over here we will bake the fish The baking technique - 'Bhujelo' in Parsi. - In Parsi. - 'Bhing' is the 'Hilsa' fish. There are many techniques in Parsi Out of that we have one lost recipe 'Pala' or 'Hilsa', Parsi people love this fish a lot. When it's in season, We have to bring it Well, do you know how long fish The first record... can you No, no idea at all. Indus valley civilization. That means fish has been eaten for the last 3000-3500 years. Quite interesting, right? - Even I didn't know about it. I did research on it, Thanks for informing us. Yes. Aditya, can you please Meanwhile, we will marinate Now, you can open this. Who used to cook this dish My grandfather used to make this dish, and when guests would come by, Now, we will Well, turmeric is the original Correct. - Okay. Will you keep this aside while I give you ingredients In Parsi food, this green chutney Yes, the green chutney When we came to Gujarat, India at that time we had promised -we will follow certain customs of Gujarat so maybe Chutney is definitely - No. No. Now, add tamarind Tamarind and fish Good. - That's the best. Do you know, actually This has come from there. - In Parsi food... before this? - Okay. Can you just break them - Zenobia, may I do it? This is a little more hard work - Zenobia, hope this is ready. - Okay, lovely. This technique of marinating fish, you were saying - Yes. How old do you think It's very old. It must have been a tradition Yes. Yes, are there other things would be cooking like this Yes, at times we make chicken. As I was saying, the chutney - Nice combination. These fish preparations Iran doesn't have water bodies, So when they came here, But when they came here, Fish was a product that came daily. The fish catching Their main occupation So their boasts would go and bring fresh fish The women carried it in baskets My grandma said, when they the fish lady would come daily it was decided Now, bring the banana leaf Now, warm the banana leaf lightly. Now, we will cut it - Now this is our first layer... Now, let us put the fish This is really a very We have layered it so that it does not get burnt, - Correct. the leaf will get burnt, - Yes. - Now, you see we flatten it. Yes. Let's make a small bed How do you think would have started In the past, We used the leftover charcoal - to simmer various things. To bake. used to be baked in this, - It used to be made in this? - This works like an ancient oven. The heat of coal is more intense - Let us keep it there. - Meanwhile can we leave this place? It's getting a bit hot in here. - Very hot. I feel the closest alternative baked or cooked In a manner that so that the fish because it cooked in a vacuum pack, So this type of 'Bhujela' food When my ancestors had come they took 41 days to reach Just imagine a 41 day long trip, and what is the type of food Today, all those things So the food that people they are the recipes The 'Bhujelo Bhing' and it used to be so tasty. Today, very few people know our old, elderly people. They would remember 'Bhujelo Bhing' I really feel that, I have made - I know, right? Looking at that, eatable could come - Right. - Yes. - I've never seen anything like it. Looks perfect. The fish smells really good. The fish was a bit steamed, I think, Hilsa and the green chutney has perfectly blended and the chutney gives the fish The texture of the I just don't have words to describe and really it looks as if we have -We really did Amazing. The olden days and as I turn I take notice of our history the style we cooked. After all what are the answers as in how did eggs become What came first, For the whole world but, if you ask he would reply by saying Parsis love eggs ardently. he would have built the Taj Mahal This unconditional love that is made with eggs. 'Think about it. 'Eeda Pak'. All the recipes the recipe that I love Call it a sweetmeat which one gets to see We don't see it anymore. Aditya, please come. Aunt, only so many eggs? - That's just a little. You just think so. Yes. I know. - It is an egg 'halwa'. Seriously, nowadays Nowadays nobody makes this, Oldies used to eat Oldies used to eat. Because they always - How about young people like us? - Okay. Parsi people believe that when so when it's cold, so one should eat elements One should eat things So 'Eeda Pak' is one such recipe It's typically That is a place So this is a recipe that I must have had a few times - I wanted to ask you something. - your kitchen... - Is it a traditional Parsi kitchen? Actually, all Parsi priests - usually have this fireplace. How old is this kitchen and your home? I think, this house 260 years old! I really feel like coming here has made to travel So what are the ingredients Ingredients, Aunt, how many eggs - 15. So, aunt - should we start making this? Will you help me? - Just get me that vessel, please? Parsis have a famous Every Parsi home they would keep hens. So, we eat eggs There is a joke about Parsis, The fact is that they were not Whatever vegetables were left they would add an egg So we started putting eggs on okra, on tomatoes and any curry, This was a typical hallmark - So, aunt, the last one. For good luck. Whether it's a Sunday or a Monday, Alright, this is done. Now, you put sugar and cream. In the olden days, - What would they add? Jaggery. - From date palm? - Just add half kg of the same. Add a few drops - It is very important because... - Is this enough? Aunt Roshan told me in the old days fresh vanilla beans Nowadays people use vanilla 'After some time or the extracts There is vanilla, rosewater These three flavours The eggy smell Now, we have to add For 15 eggs we will require - So, this dish is rich. I think, we can call this - And now, aunt? Adding this rose water And in Iran, At times, it's used in and the roses are distilled When the Iranian people moved to India around 150-175 years ago they brought rose water and that too in large quantities from Iran. Parsis started using it immediately, We will add crushed almonds - Can I add it? Now after mixing it well, and we keep stirring it It should not stick Are you enjoying, Aditya? Yes aunt, - This wood and the fire... - This is very traditional. Now, just give it to me. - Yes. We forget that we all live Now, there are 2-4 people So, this recipe is not This is a recipe from a time when At times, two families would Aunties and other relatives there is a mood for celebration. Back then, things was not available, Especially these were made especially They were not allowed So these recipes were made These recipes were who cannot eat outside food. Aditya, we now add some - Okay, aunt. - This. Oh, lovely! - This is what makes it 'Halwa'. The sweet flavour Can I add everything? Yes, add it all. - Now, it has started to thicken. It takes about 20 minutes Now, it has started to thicken. Yes, it has now started We can now start And this sweet resembles So aunt, - It is done. - Isn't your mouth watering? - Would you like to taste... - I would love too. I would certainly like to. This is the first time, I have never seen a dish This is a unique dish. I don't think you have eaten Aditya, now this is ready to use Aunt, this is looking great. - Aunt, I think we should taste it. - Isn't it? Awesome... isn't it? I have never tasted I can tell you Thank you very much. I can really call I wish, I was born I wish I was born then I would have enjoyed What a journey! Now, we have spoken about sweets, But today, if we talk especially when we talk we cannot miss out on bakeries. 1300 years ago There were a lot there were limitations, You cannot work But, there is one profession that is the tradition 'There are many Parsi bakers.' 'What are the common features 'The first thing are used to bake cookies crushed almonds are used.' 'In Iranian bakeries, of macaroons and 'Mawa' cakes the tradition of sweet cakes, to find them in small bakery shops Who would have thought After coming to Udvada, there is something special And now finally, the time has come to see one final recipe and our Indian culture. Which has brought me to Sanjan This is a place, Parsis stepped into India A reminder of this fact is this only historical monument which is made where, for the first time the Parsis placed their holy fire And there are some Who are a part of Parsi From one of these families is the one who is going of a dish called 'Umbario'. Hi, Urwaksh! - Hi. - Hi, Aditya... - Good. Please sit. You have already started working - No, I haven't. Sit, please. We are just trying it out, - It's such an old recipe. There is nothing. I was just trying to How to keep the bricks This technique is very old it's so old that people have I am very happy to be that this will turn Absolutely. Now, tell me about this technique. First of all, the name - 'Umbario'. Technically, you can call it This is an old fashioned The cooking is very fast. Like the pressure cooker, To tell you honestly, I have never nor have I heard So should we start the work? Let's not delay. - Let's not delay. Very nice. 'We have been talking there is one such recipe and which has now and there is a small poem [REGIONAL VERSE] The explanation means, he tells his sad story He is saying you can cook and if you do that But, there is no life, So, it gets lost in translation. But, the same in Gujarati - Nice. The kitchen looks lovely. Wow! 'Firstly, I have never seen so many Are you sure we would use Yes, everything is for one dish. Farmers bring different vegetables they sit together, they cook. 'This dish that we are cooking' was generally cooked Once all the vegetables are harvested They would go to their They would gather together, They would dig it inside the mud In the evening 'they would order 'after that they would remove it 'and they would use banana leaves and they would sit I have never seen such a thing. - 'Kochayan'. It's a tuber. - Underground. - The biggest tuber is... Mostly, it is found near mango trees. So, these are all the The Parsi or - the Iranian influence is the meat. - Is that right? In the old days, other meats were - Game meat. Today, we only take In the stomach cavity, So, this is the cavity So, let us start. Yes, let us start And coriander? - Coriander, too. - Yes, is this fine? - Now, this has been cut. This has been chopped and now what Yes. -This is 'Dhanajeeru.' - Yes. Parsi. That is how you say it. Now we add mustard seeds, Cloves, cardamom cloves, Okay, beautiful. Now what are you planning to - We dry roast the same. - Okay now, that is also done. - Now, it's smelling very nice. The spices are really good. Yes, you can smell the oil that is coming out Lovely! Now, we have to crush it. Even the process of crushing Now, we will bring the things Potato, yam baby brinjal, baby tomato. - Baby onion, baby potatoes. This is the queen Now, we will add the spices and we will add clarified butter Okay. Once the 'ghee' is added, Now, we add toddy. If we drink it early in the morning, - 'Neera'. - Yes. We use this a lot in Parsi cuisine. We prepare a few dishes If we wanted a rising agent then This was a prehistoric yeast. In the old days, Mostly, these things were used. - Right? Now, we will have to rinse so, we will rinse our hands Inside the dish, whatever spice - that will go back inside it. I think, we've added too much toddy. - Yeah, why not? Here the mix is ready, Add the coriander As I prepare the dish, I am starting Why not enjoy the palm toddy? - Now, what do we have to do? Now, we will stuff I have seen a lot of things A chicken in a pot is difficult. - What is this? It's a wild plant. It's strength is - It does not cook so fast. It is placed at the bottom - Okay. When we turn the pot over - It's a type of natural sealant. This has flavour too. Now, this has become the base. Now, we will add the vegetables. In the old days, food was cooked Dishes that are cooked in mud pots In English, there is a saying it's the vessel that imparts So the shape or the materials used had a huge influence Now, we can say all we have forgotten Nowadays, this is the only dish Now, we will add the chicken How? I am wondering how it Slowly. Wow! Now, we have nicely fitted - Okay sir, this has been done. - Now, we will seal the lid. Add a little clarified butter Now, it's done. - Perfect. Now, we need to turn it upside Do I need to... - Do you want me to pray? Now, we have worked hard on it, That's enough. - Everything is there inside. - Let us take it there. You know what, While I am holding this pot... I am getting a feeling as - Yes, very true. Now, I am going to hand What are we planning We will turn this upside down, One lost recipe I have never seen. And I know one thing for sure that you have also not seen We have kept a heap It's mentioned in the recipe that we would require We have kept them for two days. You must have never seen where food is getting cooked It's getting cooked, this is called The fire is now intense, Yes, intense. 'These kinds of foods 'A completely lost recipe...' 'If you have read it has been described in a book, But, to add it into a book because who is going This is one such recipe that it is necessary for us That is because for another we won't be able Oh this is lovely, we will But before we do that, Before we eat. 'Bless it, so it may give strength, - Lovely. Please. Oh, look at that! - Look at it. Lovely. I have never tasted flavours like I have never felt anything There is nothing tastier than Umbario This does not taste smoky, earthy. It blends The chicken and the vegetables that I can't tell you about it. This dish forces you If you are eating without 'Today for the first time, we are actually The flavours are amazing. people would have sat together for and this is how they must have taken The food is amazing. Back in time, the mission to get about their history That has been completed, - Thank you very, very much. - Cheers to all of you... And your epic 'Umbario'. Today, I have realised one thing. As we started moving ahead we left behind many cooking styles, Some recipes that are keen I will make sure that I bring But like me, you also Who knows? You too may bring history to the present.