From top generals down to the lowest of well-oiled machine, in which each person organization. The top command of this military, social and political elite. So much in fact encouraged to enter the military at an early echelons of Rome's military command structure, and what positions you first had to rise through. in the Roman army, so if you're interested By the Early Empire, a Roman legion had around by a series of military officers. There were legions at once. To draw a modern comparison, size and officer make-up, to a modern US Army I'll be making rough comparisons of Roman to help you get a better sense of it. a word about the kind sponsor of this video, turn-based tactical strategy game set in the 40,000 universe. Tacticus allows you to bring the battlefield where you are in full control. This with endless possibilities and strategies that and lead over 70 legendary champions from 17 very unique and filling a specific role! The best updates to enhance the experience. So hurry scan the QR code to try out Tacticus and put new and old, can use our special code to get a The Roman aristocracy was divided into two main citizens who were wealthy enough to become political battleground. The second tier were the but not as much as the senators. From Rome's by one's ability to own a horse and serve in "equestrian" came to be affiliated with horses. By administrative posts in their home provinces, called the Militia Equestris. This was a series equestrians, and it allowed them to climb to it would grant them experience, authority, and standing and make important connections. to pursue a respectable career, your first step in an "Auxiliary Prefect". The Auxiliary cohorts were they were made up of non-Romans, their command was by no means meant that it was an easy position to cohorts in the entire Roman army, and each command were only about 83 Auxiliary Prefect positions young ambitious equestrians in the Empire. But you could be given this honor. Your given cohort would most likely be stationed on some border of This position was designed to provide you with military unit. A rough comparison to the modern US a Company Commander, holding the rank of Captain. Angusticlavius, or "Narrow-Striped Tribune." Their present on their tunic, and although this rank within a Roman legion, now designed to provide you wouldn't directly command troops while the legion commander and help him with various maintaining logistics, and taking care of general have 5 of these tribunes assigned to him, which still very important - tasks. Advancing to this equestrian positions within each of the 28 a duration of 3 years. So in any one year, the 83 about 47 available Narrow-Striped Tribune you could occasionally even be appointed to as Tacitus tells us was the case for Agricola to modern times, these equestrian Narrow-Striped staff - often referred to as the "Staff Shop", administration, and communication in their unit a Captain or Major. It's worth mentioning that the was to be an auxiliary tribune of a now 1000 of which there were about 30 in the Empire. for an equestrian was the Praefectus Alae, about 73 Alae, or cavalry units, so to command one you would have to compete for only 24 vacancies in any given year. Now commanding prestigious than those commanding infantrymen, but this was still an equestrian position - not a as more specialized and elite units, a modern rank comparison might be that of a Major. After serving 3 outstanding years with you will have finished your Militia Equestris career progression, which gave you military experience. Only the most talented individuals could be offered a fourth posting of which there were only 7 in the empire. you could still continue to the next stage of an predominantly administrative positions. You would Procurator, or procurator, helping administer Only after holding these military and now in your mid-to-late 40s, be eligible to apply never achieve them. These positions were only of such importance that even Senators were not of interest. And there would also only be ONE of examples include praefectus vigilum, commander praefectus annonae, head administrator of the of all Egypt, and commander of its 2 stationed praefectus praetorio, right hand man of the cohorts stationed in the city of Rome... As you can echelons of your social class, and came with BOTH because they are not exactly military positions, There is one final equestrian position that is temporary commander of a detachment of soldiers, from the standard equestrian career ladder, but need for it arose. Essentially, when a detachment to march to another location, a Praepositus was entire trip. And we have evidence of some, like forces during Lucius Verus' Parthian war. It's not solely equestrian, and was sometimes rank would be that of an Acting Major, To sum up the equestrian career ladder, I decided equestrian who achieved remarkable heights. was an Auxiliary prefect of the 1st cohort of became a narrow-striped tribune within the 1st he served as the Auxiliary Cavalry Prefect cavalry cohort. From here, he advanced to the becoming a monetary procurator, an inheritance different provinces. He must have distinguished as the Emperor's personal finance minister. But secured any Prefecture positions, which gives What's very interesting here is that even governing a province or establishing logistics So no matter how much of a gifted administrator position if you weren't physically inclined and edge of the empire and handle a harsh military but the Romans could rest assured that any high not only be literate, smart, and organized, but fight. The Romans always prioritized well-rounded and the higher senatorial class was even more so... might be surprised to know that the next highest This was the "Praefectus Castrorum," or Camp experienced soldier of the Plebeian class who had and they were often veterans of twenty years or entire legion, and could technically fully command both of whom were of senatorial rank. Because organization and logistics of the legion, even answer to them. This would be one of the rare but was also a vital link which brought key to the generals and commanders above. The salary upon discharge they could consider themselves it was a very competitive position that the compare this to the modern military, it would have Sergeant Major, who is also responsible training, and organization; a well-respected From here on, all higher military positions who were all expected to advance through military the age of twenty - you would first be expected to a "Broad-Striped Tribune." This name referred to senators, compared to the equestrian tribunes. Rome's famous "cursus honorum," or "course of senator was required to climb. Just like with the competitive, as there was only 1 three-year legions; meaning every year, there would only be the several dozen young ambitious senators in Tribune you would immediately serve as and sometimes hold full command in the absence or position held by a young senatorial man was a Broad-Striped Tribune is comparable to of 5000 men, who is likewise the 2nd in command of the unit, and a person who holds the rank of first job of the young adults in the top 1% today... commanders were amateurs by today's standards. the main commander of an entire legion. This was and aside from their duties in the legion, legates Although a senator only needed to have been legates were usually older and far more consuls and praetors applying and becoming a lower rank. So as a broad-striped tribune in available positions for legate. This is actually 10+ years of experience to apply for this entry and this was because Rome realized the benefit of precious legions. So it became commonplace for after holding higher magisterial positions first. commander, we could say they held the rank of Full These top three positions in a Roman legion - and Legatus - are comparable to the idea of the team typically refers to the commander, executive as the CO, XO, and CSM. The "command team" are organization on a day-to-day basis, and they are interesting to note that we can see traces of this and we can see how there are striking similarities the top 3 positions of an ancient Roman After being a broad-striped tribune, more than 10 you before you could become a praetor, or praetor, Emperor himself to become a Legatus Augusti Pro powers. This was the official title of a governor strong military force stationed within. Depending 4 legions stationed within your province, would have the power to command this provincial This was the highest military command position himself. In modern terms, it would correlate But if you weren't selected by the you could be selected by the Senate to govern Pro Praetore. These were generally the more but the few auxiliary cohorts, or if you're lucky, any time, a Praetor could be elevated to the same legal authority as praetor, commanded After successfully serving your term as any of the highest respected men in Roman society. But command and status, would continually apply and given command of a full legion to serve under their valuable experience to younger officers... it by looking at a very impressive REAL career. career backwards, probably to show off. Starting himself in Hadrian's campaigns in Judea. He then Questor and Tribune of the plebs, before finally instead of a provincial governor. Only after this Legion as its legate. He then continued to hold administrator of several roads including the great and administrator of all public buildings in by the new Emperor Antoninus Pius to finally along with its several veteran legions. To illustrious title, Carus was given a consulship. battle-hardened lower ranks of the Roman army, Timothy, the host of the "Rome Retold" Podcast. I to check out and show him some support! Last 10 in the description to try out Warhammer 40,000: to the test, and join a passionate community thanks to all Patreons for making this video