When someone gives you great advice, especially it lifts you up. It makes you look at your see new solutions and find perspective. It can to feel uplifted. And because of that, they stay would like to say to someone that I really care share six of them with you, in the hopes Welcome back everyone. And as always, feel free want. This video is kindly sponsored by my friends later. For now, let's dive in with the first big you were yesterday and you're always allowed from my wonderful, wonderful boyfriend. He has always had a very flexible and adaptable mindset and I think for many other people as well, this ideas about who we are and what we're like. thought in the past, kind of come together into we want to be consistent. So if we've always seen like that is who we are and that is who we will then you can actually do that today. Every day if you want it to be. There's no real reason if that old you is no longer serving your life as for example someone who goes out partying every life of the party, but you feel like you no longer overnight. Like do a complete 180 if you want to. but you think that you have always been rather enough, then you can let go of that belief about reason that you can't let go of that identity and change and evolving. And you should never feel just because that's the way you've always been. old habits. So basically, you are not bound by at something yesterday, doesn't mean that you will helpful in small ways. So I used to do tai chi for to change and do Yoga and Fitness. But I felt like can change any time. So I used to be someone who Fitness. So it doesn't matter. And like who knows, running. Probably not. But you get what I mean. were always allowed to change your mind. About your interests, your beliefs and viewpoints. allowed to make things easier and more comfortable people in a direct face to face way. And sometimes one of them. The highly sensitive person by Dr ways. This was when I was going through a really seeing a therapist at the time who told me that term before, but I didn't really know a lot about was it incredibly interesting to learn about all high sensitivity, reading this book also just felt finally see that I am perfectly okay just the way the advice that I want to talk about here is that more comfortable for yourself, or just to be a bit not just highly sensitive people. So this means them. So you are not being annoying or difficult or if you do things a certain way, in order etc. I think for many people, and maybe like it is being selfish. Or like we're going ignore how we're feeling or how tired and just suck it up and push through. And we kind on enduring things or suffering through things for how everyone else does it, or that's how you're be a baby. But you know what? Life can already be harder than it has to be? Of course, it's great to the things that are good for us, even though they can make certain things easier for ourselves with we? So this can be coping skills. It can be going crowded. It can be scheduling more breaks for a sit and rest and cool down. It could be getting adding a little blanket and doing some work on canceling plans if you're really experiencing curtains for your bedroom so you can sleep better. Things like that. I believe that we don't have what makes us better grown-ups, or whatever weird allowed to be extra with the self-care do what your life easier. Speaking of which, I want to video. And I'm happy to be working with them their products really have made my life so much makes reusable period products like cups and absorbent underwear myself since this year. And I they truly are leak free, and they are usable amount of three tampons and will still feel dry way up to the back. So I really feel very safe and rinse them under the sink and throw them in the and that's it. Easy peasy. Their sizes go from the 100 standard from OEKO-TEX. So you don't have how Ruby Cup thinks about everything when it comes of plastic period product waste. And they have to safe period products, in combination with wish I had switched over to these earlier. especially when it comes to being on my period, and easier for myself is great. So I really they have a buy two get one for free campaign you will get the third one completely for free. Huge thank you to Ruby Cup, let's get back to the used to it. This goes for any big life changes. whatever it is. Give yourself a year to adjust and to just roll right into this new chapter of your the new situation. This was a colleague who said quit my job and started working at a new company for before was quite small, but this was a huge And I felt very overwhelmed. I was talking about planning on taking a few weeks or maybe even a about all the different departments and how things always tells people to take a year. And I remember way too long, like taking way too much time. But like that have such a huge impact on us, that new schedule and routine to get used to. I had a about this new job and this new company. And because it is so freeing. We often expect deal with all of the changes with ease and grace. move. Like we bought this apartment a year and a and also to leave our old apartment behind. But to this, and to view this as my home and my safe about a year. And even with my boyfriend. completely changed his and my schedule around. to now working in an office 4 days a week, and So suddenly, I was home alone a lot. And I also together and have breakfast together and stuff. So change for me as well. And in telling myself that I'm also saying that it is okay if I sometimes changes. And that it is okay because I have the only thing you have to think about is which therapist told me when I was first going through break down and start crying finally. Because was okay for me to just drop everything and and just stop everything. And actually, when and now also as I'm talking about it, I get all to hear this myself, every time I push myself too I try to be the person who tells myself this. intense burnout. And it took me 2 years to recover so I was really still going through it. And so, For the next weeks or months that it was okay for Like drop everything else. But this can also be it nowadays. So sometimes, when you're just what I will do is maybe just give myself the decision to allow myself to just focus on healing drop all the balls and do nothing. Like request not now. It can also be like a day or a weekend, is to really choose and say like okay until this heal and do what feels good and everything else but one of the things is that in life we just and then. And just stop. And to not feel bad care. Because we are allowed to do so. There's no talk about my dad for a minute. Because he's a willed and assertive. But also really optimistic among other things, he is the one who always This is a Dutch saying and it literally get yes. Meaning it is always a good idea to because you just might get it. It basically Because right now you don't have that thing, there's no real downside in asking, because even change. But it is going to change if they say yes. lose. This is a super helpful mindset and I think And especially if you're someone who finds it hard but I'm sure they're not going to say yes. And I ask. Then I think this can be a game changer. hands. So for example when I was working full-time my boss wasn't going to come to me and tell me fine too. I had to ask for it. And we had to talk agree and I got to work four days a week. Which wanted a promotion at that company, I just called like a PowerPoint presentation about the kind of good at it, and why would be good for the company I did get it. So many more examples that I could it's not going to change things if they say no. to get what you want. So don't be afraid to put number six: when you feel stuck, take a step back can be found in art. And in this case, in my many valuable life lessons in their movies. In about all the life lessons that we can learn about life lessons from Winnie to pooh. So I will in case you are interested. But the one I want to believing in yourself and your own abilities. And Service. At first glance, this movie is a very witch named Kiki, who at the age of 13 leaves home to develop her witchcraft. And she ends up But the movie also shows Kiki's depression when And eventually she burns out. And not only is she like flying, but she completely loses faith losing her magic and her ability to fly. As a burnout myself, this movie always hits home even really realize that we are burning ourselves social life and our mental and physical health. just feeling stuck and things not bringing us the speak. And this is when Kiki meets Ursula, who is has a creative block and she feels like she cannot she stops trying. Ursula says: you know, you could a break. And Kiki says yeah, but still, if I can the scenery, doze off at noon. Don't even think flying again. And Kiki says: you think my problems going to be fine, I promise. I watch this movie things like making videos, but also just generally when you feel like you've just lost your spark struggle, when nothing feels right, we might feel need to try harder and keep forcing. But really, a step back from things, relax, recharge and that is inside of us. We just have to remind ourselves the pause button and stop trying. And stop having something fun you don't normally do. And just you what is a piece of advice that you've gotten has been super helpful for you in your life since so feel free to share those down below. And the description box. And for October, if you want helpful for you. I know that switching over to at first. So if you have any questions, or just to ask me in the comments. I'd love to help out. comments, conversations down below. Have a again really soon. Thanks for being here. Bye-bye. Ghibli movie, because they're all great in their you about is called Grave of the Fireflies. It has saddest movie that you will ever ever watch. It is it. But know what you're getting into please.