The British soldier, from Gibraltar to Hong Kong. Everywhere he stands a staunch symbol The British Empire is the largest empire For over 300 years, Britain ruled, its armies conquered and its bankers However, One by one, countries declared and no amount of force As British elites saw their wealth, they began to search and they found one in finance. This is a film about how Britain to a modern financial power and how this transformation In the days of the British Empire, the City of London was the world's biggest The City of London of the British Empire. The historians, Cain and Hopkins called it All these countries in the empire and the City of London Not just inside the sterling zone, As Britain's empire declined, One British army truck is bombed, As rioting becomes young people of high school age Here, a group of girls is being dispersed with British military police. With the decline of the Empire, British commercial interests In 1956, A new Middle East crisis arises tells a wildly cheering crowd that Egypt has seized France and Britain Within hours of its expiration, Britain's warplanes and its bombers attack five key cities, The United States and put pressure on Britain There will be no United States involvement It is our hope and intent, this matter will be brought before There, the opinion in our quest for a just end Britain was humiliated. The Suez Crisis as one of the world's major powers. Following the crisis, there was a run Some people suspect was encouraging this run on the UK pound. As financiers withdrew the value of the pound decreased. To protect the value of the pound, Britain limited They were not able to invest abroad We don't know exactly the context, or their representative made which in itself from the banking industry. It seems that they had reached that if the banks intermediated in a foreign currency, that this particular intermediation, this particular deal will not under its own jurisdiction. The banks began to create a market called the London Eurodollar Market. To differentiate from their domestic banking activities, The Bank of England, that the London Euromarket accounts they were elsewhere for regulating them. It's about providing a legal space in which you pretend The importance of that in the economy You're taking activity from the place and pretending Where doesn't really matter, When American banks realized to avoid US regulations, they moved their international operations Around the same time their international operations to London, another new kind of financial space in Britain's overseas jurisdictions, Back in the 60s, the Cayman Islands The stories go that mosquitoes sometimes they were That's a legend about the Cayman Islands. I don't know how true it was, Accountants and lawyers from London and other British dependencies and began to draft a set Because these jurisdictions' they were called secrecy jurisdictions. What the Cayman Islands was doing Drugs and money were coming in Whatever you wanted, you could have it. The Bank of England and noted in a report marked Secret, We need to be quite sure of trust companies banks et cetera, which in most cases manipulating assets outside the islands There is, of course, for non-residents opportunities are not created to the non-sterling area outside UK rules. These small territories, which are still They are still the last remnants There are 14 Seven of them are bona fide tax havens, and the British Virgin Islands. Some of the biggest tax havens With access to large amounts the Euromarket grew rapidly. By 1980, By 1988, $4.8 trillion, and by 1997, nearly 90 percent were made through this market. The British Empire had sunk, but the city of London The city of London, London's financial district It has been called a city within a city, It is run by an organization a private company that performs with a private police force Those of you who aren't from the UK, might not be aware of just how weird is within the big London. The City of London is a separate entity and it has its own head, the Lord Mayor, who runs the rest of London. Every November, the world's oldest civic procession. The City of London because back in 1066, the city was one of the only portions and he struck a deal with the city in 1067 To this day, the City of London is exempt that govern the rest of Britain. Its political system The city's electorate is dominated but by the private businesses Its Lord Mayor is selected They have a representative called the Remembrancer. Besides the House of Commons clerks, All other lobbyists and they're not allowed past the lobby. The City of London in the House of Commons whose role is to report back and to lobby parliament The Corporation of London, clearly, that should have attracted political economists, and economists. However, I don't know of anyone the Corporation of London or economic policy. We can only surmise, the Corporation of London and is able in one way particularly in financial methods. Clement Attlee, the Prime Minister had something to say Over again, another power than that The City of London, a convenient term is able to assert itself Those who control money contrary to that At the heart of the City of London The Bank of England it is also a financial regulator. At the demise of the Empire, the Bank of England used to help attract In 1972, the Bank of England to the Bank of Credit which set up its head office in London. Within ten years, BCCI grew into Ten years later, BCCI was bankrupt. The deputy director of the CIA, said late today that the CIA did use BCCI to support CIA activities overseas. BCCI had not just collaborated it had also engaged money laundering, and terrorist financing. BCCI constituted of a level that boggles the mind. BCCI was financing terrorism. The Bank of England knew it, but instead of supervising it properly, I am saying very directly had sufficient information 15 months earlier than it did. Millions of depositors Numerous whistleblowers from BCCI yet the Bank of England did nothing. The Bank of England had plenty of time but it did not do so which still survives is that, and talk over lunch tables and all would be well. Robin Leigh-Pemberton, at the time of the collapse of BCCI, the present system of supervision If we close down a bank every time you would have rather fewer banks London was a place that was not allowed elsewhere, where senior bankers did not have to worry This is one of the reasons why today than in any other financial center. In Britain, nobody goes to jail, They generally don't. They are a protected species of the offshore business model we will bring your money here, We're not going to put you in prison, Light touch regulation was one way Another was secrecy. From the 1960s onwards, the City of London institutions began in former outposts of the British Empire. Their aim was to create offshore centers in order to attract capital Swiss banking secrecy is the most famous You put your money in a Swiss bank That's one kind of secrecy, which is very British, is trust. Trust is a very slippery, complicated, Trusts emerge, the legend has it when the knights would go off and they would leave their assets What trusts do ultimately is play Ownership is not such a simple thing. The settlor, the knight in this case to someone who these days It's often a lawyer. Legally, you are separated They're not yours anymore, You can't be taxed on them. Nobody's going to find anything In Britain's offshore jurisdictions, no qualifications Anyone can set up a trust There is no registry of trusts. There are no bodies to certify The only persons who know are the trustee and the settlor. There is no obligation to register it. There is no financial reporting obligation They are not required to put Trusts are, to all intents and purposes, Economist John Christensen to the secrecy jurisdiction We're not talking about a few million. We're talking about trillions which apparently belong to nobody. For tax purposes and for other purposes, Everything works of art, gold bullion, not just financial assets, belongs to these trusts. Sitting there belonging to nobody. Think that one through about maybe sitting offshore behind these instruments. The Cayman Islands are among who have signed with Britain and the rest of Europe The countries are now required of the ownership of bank accounts Cayman became It's important that the Cayman Islands as the first overseas territory with the United Kingdom. I think this important reflects that the Cayman Islands has taken of rooting out tax evasion. Trust lies at the core They don't use banking secrecy. The Swiss use banking secrecy. The British are only too willing because they will then capture That's why the Brits are doing this. Trusts are the basic building block and they form the basis from which complex Every secrecy jurisdiction from trusts to shell companies, to secret bank accounts The combination of these services into complex structures enables the creation of secrecy structures An offshore structure will often The trust will be here kind of controlling the assets. Underneath it, Each trust may have its own jurisdiction whose trustees are somewhere else, which owns offshore companies, Each of these companies so they might own a bank account a yacht, a painting, There are numerous variations of trusts There are offshore lawyers of ever more The aim of these structures is to hide the identity and allow offshore wealth We're looking at the amount from tax havens. You see that it is a curve going like this along with other wonderful people has not changed anything. It is the word where you say, and I'm going on doing what I want to do. We know everything today We have seen it, because this system that are having benefit from it. In percentage, they're very few people, I see in the Panama Committee the only thing that could change this is to have a publicly accessible register of trusts and of all kinds of companies, The Panama Papers from the offshore law firm Mossack Fonseca The other nine of the ten largest are registered When countries complained to Britain about the activities Britain claims and that there is nothing it can do. I've heard time and time again Washington and in other countries by the British government that, yes, they are well aware and they think it's very unfortunate, but they don't have That's a straightforward lie. They do have the power to intervene, Britain plays this game of pretending when it suits them to pretend At the end of the day, and appoints lots They are responsible and also they can veto Therefore, Britain It is controlling these places, allowing them During his time John Christensen for talks with various As an economic adviser, I had a lot Traditionally, UK governments in the domestic affairs so it happens You kind of go and talk to someone and they'd say, we're not particularly It might be a good idea Over a cup of tea, That's a signal to go back to the island The British government Instead, it communicates its desires There is no paper trail Discussions take place The relationship is much about the British establishment Anybody who is British knows that communication You have to kind of know the codes A lot of ironies involved the British establishment, I think that is very much the case with the British relationship I think there's a lot of understanding and can't do without anyone having By keeping its power hidden, that these jurisdictions Independence for Cayman That's the message being sent on Decolonization. Attorney Steve McField at the UN meeting. The committee was set up on the road to independence he'll be making it clear that Cayman That message is that the Premier, his Cabinet, and his party have no mandate from the people of the Cayman Islands That is the message that will be carried. When the Bahamas declared independence the offshore bankers relocated and continued their business from there. It was the British connection that their money was safe. This British bedrock to become so trusted and offshore finance and all these people. In reality, much of the wealth is controlled from London. The City of London, by and large, Outside London, they might, heaven forbid, be a regulator and starts to prosecute them It's better to do the fraud offshore where there's much less risk will ever happen. Deals are often discussed but then registered offshore and regulatory purposes. What they allow the city to do but then when the scandal hits, nothing we can do about those places. That's not us, that's tax haven activity, We're not involved in that kind of stuff. It's an incredibly The City of London Guernsey, and the British have developed as tax havens. I see these places as the Frankensteins Today, the UK of international financial services. The UK has an almost unique role If you look at data, in the Financial Secrecy Index, of each country in the global provision that's financial services There are two big centers and everything The two large centers with around 19 percent and the United Kingdom which have around 25 percent If you add to that, but recently independent, fairly recently, maybe even Dubai, Bahrain, and Cyprus. Then you reach a figure I think that figure represents better the position of London As the soldiers left, but they still kept a significant degree from these former parts of the Empire You could describe it A sort of hidden financial empire At the time of the British Empire, was the world's largest Not only Britain's colonies but also independent countries and used the empire's currency As the empire declined, The establishment of the London Euromarket to continue to exploit The creation of secrecy jurisdictions gave banks access International banks from across and Britain's offshore jurisdictions in order to take advantage This system has taken the place Up till '62 for France, but about the same time, for instance, or in other colonies. When you look they are increasing We are still plundering as former colonial powers. Wealthy individuals, shifted their wealth and no tax. As countries around the world and open their economies, Today, as much as half may be hidden One of the losers is Africa, whose flight capital flows mostly I think it's no coincidence emerged more or less at the same time We tend to think of Africa to the rest of the world, but that was the extent of their debts The debt of sub-Saharan African nations Yet the wealth these country's elites between 1970 and 2008 over five times their foreign debt. Nine hundred and forty-four Far from being a net debtor, sub-Saharan Africa is a net creditor As capital moved offshore, African nations borrowed money Over time, these debts became so great Secrecy jurisdictions were starving and their tax revenues. For a long time, including recently Ecuador, which is of a higher value which is the UN Tax Committee. Every time this has happened, During the financing for development I think it was the UK and the US again to set up Why would they not want to have democratic on how tax gets collected across borders? I don't understand this. As long as we have a cross-border activity that involves as long as we're unable this is going to continue to be a problem. Western nations block attempts of international financial flows for the collection of tax across borders, whilst elites to hide their wealth offshore. The oil from Gabon and this is true for the copper in Zambia, for the gold in Mozambique, or in Mali. They have benefited the company It has benefited In developing countries, has facilitated the looting It has enabled them to steal the money Illicit financial flows creates incentives for people This is why there is a group of countries where development progress It's that the incentives of individuals through all the mechanisms outweigh the type of mechanisms that lead effective state Worldwide, developing countries lose in capital flight and tax evasion. Most of this wealth like the United States and Britain and enables whilst developing nations' currencies However, illicit flows also had another unexpected side effect. The economies of the United States The origins of this financialization go back to the 1960s. Anti-war demonstrators in mass marches, President Johnson, that the FBI In the 1960s, US economist Michael Hudson on Wall Street During the 1960s, deficit was entirely a result Dollars were flowing as a result The United States attempted to prevent from being deposited in foreign banks. The government asked Chase during the Vietnam War, it didn't have windows, It lost money because it said, that's being thrown off then it's going to go into French banks. It'll get to General de Gaulle, and you know He's going to cash it in for gold. That's what the United States The US was not successful so it began to hatch a different plan. In 1967, Michael Hudson was handed a memo In 1967, I was given a memo in the elevator at Chase Manhattan, urging that Chase Manhattan in helping the United States become meaning the flight capital. The State Department, how much money do you think is available if America were to become The plan was to organize in the Caribbean and elsewhere. The hot money because that wouldn't be nice What happened other criminals, drug dealers, would put their money and these offshore banks in the head office. By moving offshore dollars the US was able to stop and support the value of its currency. Every country looks and the foreign exchange rate it's capital movements. If you look at the International monthly international you have a steady balance of trade What goes up and down What the United Nations are flight capital. The reason that it's omitted is In the 1930s, Roy Ovid Hall, an economist wanted to include criminal movements and Congress got very upset. I was told in Washington we're a Christian country, It's just don't look at it. They forbid him to include criminal money I guess now you call it errors You don't call it criminal inflow In the 1960s and '70s, Britain was faced with a similar dilemma Money was flowing out Britain realized that it too could support by opening its domestic markets to the trillions of dollars However, just as in the United States, The British banks today, don't put their money They put their money into real estate foreign currency, and trade. The financialization of London because it's enabled sterling by this huge inflow of hot money, criminal money, and tax evasion money that is going to London instead or the Caribbean. With the silent backing Britain's offshore havens grew rapidly, developed into the world's Few were aware In 1986, economist John Christensen He applied for a position of one of the world's Deloitte Touche was working and trust administration, I went offshore specifically because that's where you're dealing the shell companies, the offshore trusts, That way, I could see from working exactly what the clients were doing. I had complete access Over the course of my period I investigated and this is what I found. There were some insider traders, some avoiding disclosure trading illicit political campaign bribery, fraudulent invoicing, and at the bottom, tax evasion. This is what the clients were doing. On the basis of a sample not a single client as a genuinely legitimate activity. They were all involved I met with Carl Levin, and he made a lot of inquiries asking questions to the bankers. What do you think that are using these companies The answer was, of my clients are using these companies This is a reality. This is American bankers and it's exactly helping their clients or in the Cayman Islands. Secrecy jurisdictions and gray-area financial activities. Areas where secrecy is not just desirable, Legitimate financial activity has no need nor a desire to pay the high fees Today, close to half are British dependencies. In public, these jurisdictions and their financial services sectors in legitimate financial activities. Our economy is not based on secrecy. It's based on transparency. It's based It's based on good governance with a British government legal system. That's what our financial institutions Tonight, we have a response after a group of US-based announced plans to travel to what they feel Finance Chairman Mr. Richard Cole and says, &quot;Our financial sector I would say to find out what we do here, come on down. We have no secrets here. When I went I think it was, and he said, that nobody is allowed to speak to you. You are off limits. In 2011, journalist Nicholas Shaxson a groundbreaking book The author of a series says he would welcome a debate Mr. Travers recently with the understanding of an 11-year-old. There are always going The politics of envy are exacerbated what's going on in the Cayman Islands. I don't know what he's talking about, he doesn't know what he's talking about. The Cayman Islands is the fifth largest It hosts 80,000 registered companies, of the world's hedge funds, It has a population of 60,000, roughly equivalent A strange mixture of characters British ex-public schoolboys, members global criminals, assorted lords With so much at stake for so many wealthy it may come as no surprise have developed to prevent information from leaking out. For many people who work offshore it's very hard indeed to dissent with a degree of viciousness, Most of the time are relatively sophisticated. You won't get a promotion by doing this It's not generally, That's far too crude. We are talking about very substantially, The mechanisms are very subtle, With these peculiar mechanisms, you find all sorts of methods, you give them far too much work to do. You steer them in a different direction. One person who is intimately familiar is former Jersey Senator In 2009, he leaked a report suspected of killing patients It all came to a head the 10th of March. Senator Stuart Syvret claiming Senator Jimmy Perchard and told him to go and top himself. Senator Perchard denied the claim, However, less than a week later, Senator Perchard has now admitted he did tell Senator Stuart Syvret and slit his wrists. I was arrested at my house one morning There were another two specialist and also another two police officers One of those battering rams Ten police officers descended on me The property was turned over All of the computers All kinds of private constituency data Shortly after we began filming, a police officer As he hurried past, The officer was on his way which he did at intervals throughout much When it came to prosecuting... Stuart Syvret was prosecuted When the authorities were prosecuting me, I claimed that this was a legitimate and I with an expert witness that effectively destroyed In reaction to this, the magistrates ruled that he had leaked the report would no longer be admissible all the same without a defense case. Over the past seven years, Stuart Syvret and imprisoned three times. He does not know when nor does he know when To look at Jersey from the outside, it looks like it's got It looks like it's got a court It's a Potemkin village. None of these systems in Jersey or functioning properly. The experience that Stuart Silver had is, he's perhaps He was simply suppressed This is how oppression happens All kinds of little things even though they don't often go in terms of arresting me However, the authorities use all kinds to interfere with people, and make life difficult for people. If you annoy the establishment in Jersey, Your children won't get decent jobs, I went to Jersey in March 2009 About 24 hours after we arrived in Jersey, &quot;Have you noticed Ever since we arrived at the airport, He said, &quot;Don't look now, Turns out he was quite correct. We were being followed, They have a saying in Jersey, there's always a boat in the morning. Jersey Finance &quot;Jersey represents an extension It's where the City of London which they couldn't do in London itself. We're here to talk I'll just read &quot;Members of the firm Appleby &quot;but also in a number of centers, &quot;and the Cayman Islands Essentially they're boasting of the fact have a real interchange in these offshore financial centers. The same lawyers and accountants also occupy senior political positions. In Britain's offshore world, They lobby for business They draft, refine and pass legislation. Politicians sit on the boards they are supposed to regulate. There is no place Indeed, there should be no place The challenge I'm laying down is to root out the rot of corruption, to ensure transparency Require transparency and work with us around the world. In public, British politicians on secrecy jurisdictions and corruption, When I talk to politicians in Brussels, they say that they've had more lobbyists including politicians, come to them than they've had from every other This gives you some idea of the extent to as essential lobbyists We begin with our big story. Cayman's efforts to ensure transparency are being recognized Earlier this week, told Parliament that the tax haven label and overseas territories is unfair. Many British politicians with the City of London Former British Prime Minister was an expert in offshore funds from the 1980s onward. This courthouse behind me It's a document called a Grant of Probate, and it's attached to the English David Cameron's father. Hi, how are you, dad? How are you, good to see you. Ian Cameron was certainly a wealthy man. In 2009, his personal fortune for the Sunday Times Yet when Ian Cameron died in 2010, his estate was much smaller In many cases, it's the politicians, and so on, and the business people who are using They've got no personal interest If they wanted to close it down, The fact of the matter is, because they themselves If you come from the same background, then all the kinds of legal niceties You can get away that they wouldn't just let If you knock on the door saying, can you set up They'd tell you to get lost you can do these kinds of things. That's a very important part Upper class, that has been there for centuries. The British establishment, had carved out in the offshore world They transformed themselves into financial handlers and multinational corporations. As more money flowed offshore, began to feel The reality is not that you believe has the power The power is hidden here. We have country after country where the lack ownership, and corruption to which governments for their citizens. We have extreme cases by people in finance ministries in Greece, However, we also have this system towards anonymous company ownership. The anonymous ownership of half of the land in Scotland. Do we really think that in which governments work better, in which the distribution of income when we allow so much to be hidden? Who wants to not know Who wants their government or to be led by people whose financial transactions This is a bad direction for the world. We need the citizens that they are the ones and that some individuals having Ordinary people are paying taxes. Rich people are not. This is inequality because it shows so clearly are not able to take care Back in the '60s and '70s, against taxation The Rolling Stones and Phil Collins, all these people going offshore, It was seen as a rebellious thing to do. If you fast forward to the present day, The offshore system is the establishment. Today offshore is the way elites and multinational corporations Tax evasion is the way business is done. This kind of sophisticated cheating We like to talk of highly educated people who think it is their right We have a new mafia in town. It does not actually shoot people, but its trait is just as deadly. It deprives people education, security, justice, Accountants form They administer the structures to shift their money There are about 2.5 million on this planet. About 330,000 are in the UK. Well-known people, are sitting in city center offices and they are paid to dream up and for corporations. We can all elect we will give you better health care, The next day accountant says, you elected this government and the Amazon, Google, in your jurisdiction, too bad. You voted for it, It's a crazy world at big accountancy firms the services by erosion of tax revenues. These firms are then rewarded and the same firms and the central government then report on the company accounts When I argue this in a face-to-face debate, he said, &quot;Professor Sikka, We generate millions and we have lots What is your problem? My response was very simple. That's the language In Britain, a new breed of civil servants One such civil servant was Dave Hartnett, the UK Tax Authority. Dave Hartnett Deals would be negotiated behind closed doors. In the case of the largest clients, Dave Hartnett British Telecom through the program BT's chief executive, Ben Vivian wrote, and nice to know that we have Dave Hartnett claimed Litigation in the courts in this day and age all over the world, and I think The art is to persuade people Pay your tax. After protests erupted in 2011, the Treasury Select Committee Dave Hartnett claimed due to taxpayer confidentiality. What statute prevents you All my advice, Mr. Barclay, and my colleagues are prevented by the Act Dave Hartnett failed to mention stated that the disclosure of information The head of HMRC Just like the mafia accountancy firms At the head of anti-avoidance in the UK, Tax Authority is from one of these firms. The newly appointed chairman which is a tax authority, Their partners have penetrated the state. They are running the Treasury. Britain's financial services industry and began to shape its laws The degree of political capture and the big law firms is so enormous that the politicians have effectively With the government unwilling a group of protesters at a private event in Oxford. I'm sorry to interrupt. I'm going to take here tonight to present Dave with an award for services to corporate tax planning. Thank you very much. Dave is a great friend to the over the years. We can't thank you enough Obviously, it was at Vodafone and our friends at Goldman Sachs as well. We've also saved us millions. Twenty-five million or so. These people are trespassers I know you've had problems. They have an unlawful conspiracy You will depart immediately You are trespassing scum, go. After his retirement, Dave Hartnett One of his positions where he advises foreign governments Dave Hartnett is a companion an honor bestowed on him We have former ministers Accountancy firms provide jobs To my mind, People are buying and selling influences. When a former minister works he's not providing He is opening political opportunities, That is what they are doing. I hope by now you'll share my view I don't trust most lawyers, I think they're engaged in a conspiracy In Britain, secrecy and complexity help to obscure corruption Financial structures are often so complex that even after they are not widely recognized An example of this is PFI, PFI is a private finance initiative. It is a way of funding things like hospitals, but financing them via the private sector which is via the central government. Over a period of 30 or 40 years, will be three or four times higher overall from the central government It's basically a giant accounting scam. Once the PFI policy has been set up, you find that were actually paid members of staff who were then going around selling, and advising upon the implementation Effectively saying come to us and we will show you how In other words, Even the offices of the state HMRC, which is the tax collector the offices are owned in Bermuda It's quite incredible. The company that owns the PFI contract borrowed money from offshore investors Because the interest was so high, therefore it did not pay tax. In 2011, HMRC could not prove was paying any tax in the UK. We need to have a serious conversation in this whole debacle and how much our government and accountancy firms and ultimately The reason we were protesting is that we wanted to make sure should hear about the fact that here in the UK. We know that these products are not in their own best interests. The only motivation is to spread the reach It's all being promoted What you're seeing is basically Initially, you've had occupation, and through that process, which have had a large offshore empire, and now those networks and exploit financial services. The City of London of the British Empire. As Britain's empire declined, operating the financial machinery into a global financial center. Former insignificant outposts became the basis for a spider's web that captured wealth from across the globe Today, 25 percent of international finance Almost half are under British protection. Up to half of all offshore wealth may be hidden Financial services It is also where senior civil servants, receive lucrative consulting positions Together, they have transformed Britain into the world's largest tax haven, and turning Britain itself into a country that serves