- What have you got a second to do it all again? Would you? Should you, if maybe hindsight can be a wonderful thing. So they say, but what What if your first Should you go again? Risk a reputation. That's what Gordon Murray has done. This is that second chance, but how to know if it There's really only one way to find out this is the McLaren F1 and the GMAT 50 together So take a seat, preferably Can the T 50 really be better than this? If this film in any way tingles your spine or pops your corn do, please think about joining You get an award-winning magazine To find out more, just Tucked Away in Genesis Woking, England, the by a small team of a of just 8 million pounds backed People like Barry Let and Peter Stevens worked to craft something extraordinary. The F1 was unveiled in 1992. One Lamar, the first attempt in 1995 and is indisputably one of the greatest road cars of all time. 30 years since the McLaren F1 came out. It's land landmark car and it still feels extraordinary today. The numbers were the things that shocked in the early nineties, the 627 brake horsepower, 479 pounds for the torque the price over 630,000 - Wow, and of course the performance figures Naugh to 63.2 seconds and with Andy Wallace at the Flat out this shocked the world. One of the things that surprised and delighted was of course the central seat color so that anyone impression of a single seater. But it's not just the fact that's the obvious thing or two you just to kind of recalibrate 'cause you're so used to and judging the width of a car like that. It's also the fact you sit so up in the nose and that's something that's perhaps less obvious, but after a while you realize it's as much as the central driving quite unlike other cars. Wow. Today of course it remains a car of greats and that's Of course one of these around 25 million today. Wow. I am unashamedly I adore this car so how they follow it and perhaps the biggest conundrum of something better Murray initially went to Honda but ended up at BMWM where a team led by Paul ER designed this dry aspirated 60 degree V 12 masterpiece, displacing 6.1 liters with a compression ratio of 11 to one and capable of producing It's just incredible. Arguably the greatest RO Wow, this engine really Even Murray himself said that of the experience in So toy, the beauty of so flexible you can You short shift, drop - Build carles. - The gear shift takes across the gate it's quite narrow and this whole car actually it's not great at waking up - It the sound of that roof It is a masterpiece. Well, Cosworth thinks it has the what have you done Cosworth? I never thought this would happen. I never thought I would be on a test where the F ones engine wasn't the wildest, but this is wilder. It's extraordinary. This is still a naturally V 12, just like the S 72 in the F1, but this is significantly 3.9 liters. It has four throttle bodies. A higher compression ratio of 14 to one is slightly more and most crucially of with the 48 volt integrators it is just two thirds of the When you guys get into you might never get used to it. The performance feels It really does. I know Gordon for acceleration but in gear this must be, it has this ons sort of wine at low speeds and then as soon Wow, I mean the numbers, I was actually a bit against the F ones because the displacement is less by quite a bit. Brake horsepower, 661 brake horsepower, so you know a bit over 30 and torque, there's a because F1 has 479 pounds of torque. This has 4 79 mu meters, but that's only 3 53 Yet this engine is every bit as potent and extraordinary but it feels like in a and where the F1 has a beautiful bark, this is a wild mountain shrink Where the F one's engine This only hits a hard It's an engine that really it revs so quickly over that initially it's hard to imagine how you'll ever have a right and toe as such. There are two throttle maps response and then when you are to sport, which is linear There is also a rev match function, which is actually very helpful Now that might seem like cheating, but trust me, when you it blows your mind. The response. I mean never has a single central rev counter dominating your view of the dash been more important than in this. That's only eight. Only 8,000 that and still have one of the most extraordinary engines ever, but there's still another Having a titanium th truffle because the last thing you Under your right foot when the engine is this responsive. But as you get dialed into this and it takes a while, so you just start driving and once you are in the zone and hardwired into its to be in sport with the that you have the full immersive the driver conducting the revs, - The It's like a proper motor sport engine. The amazing thing as well fireworks at the top very tractable low down. That's fifth gear posturing along. We've got the GT gearing in this, so six makes everything that much quieter. There's a significant The bespoke six speed box with a shorter sixth ratio, but the taller overdrive If you want to use this on just like the F1, there that you need to flick It's a delightful tactile prelude. The gear shift in this is more positive. There's not the slickness of perhaps where you might consider the very best, but the positivity and the confidence that this gives you when you're driving where the gears are and it's so quick lovely feel as it goes where the F1 you kind of always hesitate. Second good drive this, no doubts at all. It slower shift speeds. It's not as fluidly slick but the greater resistance you are asking more of it. Punching and pulling - A it is a devilish set of heaven. Wow, I can't quite believe cars together. They just look amazing as a pairing. Clear family resemblance between the two despite the This is PS four, the kind of hero pre-production prototype car and that is chassis 46, You can see the greater It also has a thinner spine than the F1 and more sculptural sides. Both things that Murray to change from the F1. Size wise, the T 50 is just 30 millimeters wider and only 65 millimeters longer with an almost identical wheel and I still prefer the way however, get up close and there is no denying that the engineering artistry The F1 has standout moments that still wow today things and its beautiful pedals, but I feel like every or hidden has been penned, machined and finished with an of very pure aesthetic, a simple beauty that shows off the technical. Let's talk practicality. You see strange though it as a usable supercar and customers proved that it Murray wanted the T 50 to be the same but with a few changes, by those customers, things that top load rather than the storage of the F1. On the smaller end of the There is now much easier Obviously there is CarPlay and Android auto this time around, but the stereo has also been uprated to a 700 watt 10 speaker of course much less just 3.9 kilos or half that of the F one's. Kenwood system aircon was another thing that Gordon really wanted So we've got a couple of which you probably noticed underneath the headlights and then another one which of well a poor panel gap to what it was for up here on the roof, which lets the air outta of low pressure, other things, fuel tank, not something most but owners well when it and needed changing pretty frequently and that was an engine out When you look underneath of little straps on a nice metal tank, the tires on the F1 were a bit and therefore a bit of So the T 50 has off the shelf However, perhaps the that I really care about on The main beams actually to throw the light slightly but they are brighter than of Miss Marple and Sherlock Holmes and there's a bit of extra get the cats nice and hot After the McLaren F1. I think it's fair to say of a difficult second album syndrome with the Mercedes McLaren SLR. Then in 2004, Gordon Murray left and set up Gordon Murray design. We had the T 25 and T but they were the three not the ones we really wanted. There were other things the ice stream production method. He was involved with Yamaha and TVR, but somehow certainly from the outside it felt like the F over all these projects. Cars like the bug Getti Veron gone faster and many were quicker while But in Murray's eyes, those shape of forced induction or paddle shifts or all wheel drive. Nothing had done the pure wheel drive, naturally aspirated and if you think nobody's done it better, then there's less imperative Not that the F1 is absolutely where a school report One of those fairly because well they didn't there was a reason for it to have carbon on carbon breaks. That's what they tried to do. They just couldn't get them working. The technology wasn't there at operable for a road car. There were two recalcitrant when cold - The - And the trouble was top speed, the steals they're fine, but the pad material had with the repeated stops hence the squeaks. Apparently customers were softer pads if they wanted, but none of them took off the offer. All obviously wanted to have Then there's the handling. This I have to say is probably one of if not the best F ones I've driven. It feels really, really really nicely supported. There's not quite as much dive under braking and then and roll in the corners. Famously, no rear Angie Rollbar, so you just feel it sit down at the rear. But this is nicely supported. I've actually always rather sidewalls and managing because it feels a bit with a gravel set up on tarmac, but I completely understand Driving on a road like this, up through hairpins, you to put in back into first It can be fun out. It happens actually. It's surprisingly well of lower speed levels, but as you get faster, you just really want to be of the car in terms of doing Keep your input simple, Ask it really one thing at a time through quicker direction changes. You just want to be careful, get your braking done in because that engine, you really notice it in get unruly. It's obviously engaging. There's no a BS, no power a truly analog experience, but it does mean that you drive prudence up onto the top here. What a piece of road. We have no one around at all, but there were plenty of people around Murray over the and eventually those and so he thought why not? The timing seemed right, and a car market in love with resto mods and limited run exclusive So in 2018 that's what he and a new team and its important to remember that like the F1 there is very much a team behind this set about doing The initial similarities It's like a son or daughter of a parent in their features Yet this next generation It instantly feels a bit more hardcore. It's louder inside the seat The primary ride is still client, but it is a greater sense of connection to the road underneath you. It feels lighter too. I love the glass panels of the dihedral doors that of airiness below 10 miles an hour. The steering has power assistance to make maneuvering easier, but as soon as the speed increases, the assistance clicks off and reveals wonderful This is a car that feels well pretty hefty in detailed obviously in its feedback, but it requires some effort. But after the F1, this is a step lighter and this is steering that weights So around straight ahead, there's not that much effort required, that's where you feel the The next thing you notice is the braking so much stronger, there's less dive and the It keeps the car flat into corners, which again might be disconcerting but doesn't seem to be, The brakes are Brembo, CCMR items with extra machining on the calipers to save a bit more weight. Obviously I think the pedal at the top of its travel, but Unlike the F1, there is the Can you feel that huge fan working? You can definitely hear it and it's cited as the so planted on the heavy Also helping with stability and it's really nice like the rev matching when you first get into to have something to lean on. You can see it flashing down there in your peripheral vision. If you look for it, you It's very, very well judged. And then you press this down here and you get ESC sport to just a little bit of leeway. Again, nicely judged so you lean into it. It doesn't just cut everything down so you can build up your pace in this car and whereas in the F1, This is a car that you can and really drive the transitions. No longer does it feel like behind you, but still, still of roll in the nose to get but now you are not afraid of it and you can use the throttle. You trust that rear end. No longer is it a case of the engine being the masterpiece that and enjoyed in the straight line. The whole package comes together. It has a predictable progressive slip diff and the T 50 rear ta than the F1. Both things, which I think help to make it feel really drivable. Like the F1, there is double It has rising rate push rod operation of the steel springs and aluminum. R 53 passive dampers. There is an anti-roll bar at the front, but just like the F1, no It feels faithful. You can drive it over the line. - It feels - Beautifully I wondered if this car might be clinical somehow, but it is not. It's just an absolutely You like driving, really driving all that effort with and pairing back to get and the overall weight of 997 kilos over 140 already feathery F1. It all feels worth it. This feels lightweight in a way that the McLaren F1 doesn't, This feels live also This is the car that makes the most of the Gordon Murray lightweight philosophy is gonna lighter than my Cleo 1 8 2, but with that B12 There are things that are I found the screens instead It's still a faff to get in and outta that central seat, and you will have every by the time you've waited three and a half long seconds for it to restart. But you know that everything with an eye on the end and making it better to drive And I would forgive pretty much anything and sacrifice every for that experience. This is absolutely one of of my life, possibly the best. All I know is expensive. I'm so sorry that more The hands on the back of to stand up in the past, I never want to stop driving this. I don't wanna give it back. really does feel like a dream. Each has its own character exemplified by their different V 12 voices. The F1 is arguably the more with its better NVH. You could truly drive one every day. It also sets iconic benchmarks in a way that the T 50 doesn't. It is still the fastest naturally aspirated production road car. Make no mistake, its Its successor isn't the or even despite its 3 The most expensive, such as But given a great piece of road and the choice of the keys to either F1 or T 50, there is no doubt, as an analog driving machine, married to a crazily addictive engine. The T 50 is even better than the F1. The McLaren F1 was never but it sort of became about them. The T 50 definitely it's all about the sensations and those emotions when you drive it. And that's why I wish I could screens just for a moment and put you in that central what has been created to put you in a way into the mind of its creator. The second chance taker.