What happens in ministry when most of to honor God's kingdom, because of a deep love these motives, they begin to shift. Church you're dealing with real people - these are you're dealing with expectations. You're unpaid. Well, that's why we're called servants; servants &quot;Lord, make me a servant,&quot; and then whine when treated right. Well, isn't that what you prayed &quot;Make me a bridge to a dying world.&quot; Have You get walked upon. &quot;I'm leaving this church, upon.&quot; Well, that's what you wanted. That's what to be a celebrity, it's not to be liked or loved. force for lasting ministry, without getting hurt, just leaving the Lord altogether. And so that's things I really believe this is what sustains and drives them, draws them to sacrifice. This while they do what they do for the Lord - wake up of their time, bring their children along. If you antidote from being burned out, from being burned and we are just tired physically - it's one go to the gym, and you're fine. Being emotionally break. Because ministry is the only thing in the You can go serve in the Boys and Girls Club - you can go and start a nonprofit to help the poor; ministry without ministry to the Lord catch up to you - hurt you, deplete you, and always point a finger at the church - &quot;They're expectations.&quot; But in reality, there are people in thriving spiritually. And the difference between that one person has a constant flow of fuel from it because they're not receiving that from the with you today - the power of a secret place, but sustaining yourself, your family, your mental The first thing that I wanted to highlight and need God. And so, I'm going to throw a few little that's good; if not, then I'm just going to give We need God, not only because we're in ministry; I want you to see something in Genesis. 'Let the earth bring forth grass.'&quot; So God spoke and we see that the earth produced grass. all the plants - they need the soil to live. They I want you to watch this, verse 20. God said, that fish live in the water? They need water for they live and move and have their being in water. the water for the water to make them. Why did He spoke to Himself and said, Let Us... So let the these plants need the earth for their survival. Now of course, God the Creator produced them but come out of the water because then they'll need &quot;Let Us make man in Our image and likeness.&quot; Why they need water for living; trees came from God because He came from God. Amen. It's almost &quot;This is how much you need Me.&quot; Look at the fish It's because they came from soil; they need to be came from water; they need water. You need God Another thing that I want to highlight is Soil is still soil without trees, and God will water are dead; trees without soil wither &quot;The day you eat of that fruit, you will Being in church, having a title in the church, translate that you're deeply connected to the that you can learn to compartmentalize your life, as it happened in Matthew 7 casting out healing the sick, and Jesus says, &quot;I when we start in the ministry, we deeply depend you begin to realize that gifting can operate And sometimes, the compassion that you have for or the hunger they have, can pull the anointing life that's completely disconnected from God. it's not that I'm ignoring this, but I'm just the rhythm where the other part of our life - of our life - is so disconnected. At first, we get same way, if you pull the tree out of the soil, take days before it dies. But sooner or later, the bring down pressure that there is no substance the ministry isn't the problem; the stress that instead, God supplies strength to meet the When I'm deprived of that inner strength, is still there. I still have the job, I still I still have the expectation. I've got scheduled that doesn't change. This train keeps going, but happen is, if I keep going, I pretty much start because we're like, &quot;What will people say? derive our identity from the work that we do. don't let the palace distract you from distract you from the presence of God. And the Lord, through pastor Mark, ministered to me that really ministered to me where the Lord was commanded to come to the presence of the to come to the presence of the king, and she she was busy for her husband, she was running a the Bible. So busy running a feast for women his presence, she was too busy to do so. presence of the king when there was a threat Esther saved a nation. And I felt the Lord be Esther.&quot; He says, The only way... you can't your influence. Don't focus on saving that. work in the field that you are working in, the with that ministry, to cause you that you don't go when you don't feel invited, meaning you don't We all have those moments, and those of us who are you know the songs, you know everybody in the to just kind of let that... like man, I'm just You've got to engage, to be like Esther. Because house of the Lord where we can get so busy and the services, in our private times, in the car, in the Please understand, God gave us this us. If God wanted more workers, He'll daughters who serve. He didn't want servants who I'm just going to throw different things Third thing: Christians build their life on Christ flammable. 1 Corinthians 3:12 says, &quot;Now if anyone precious stones, wood, hay, and straw.&quot; Now, so we've kind of mentioned that we came from God, Lord, not because of ministry, because we're I've highlighted the idea that we can really trade ourselves losing the spiritual influence, losing lamp like God said Jesus says in Revelation to the &quot;I'll remove your lamp then.&quot; It didn't mean that will stop having influence in the spirit realm. he says, &quot;Christ is the foundation.&quot; He says, all, that's exactly what we are doing in ministry, in kids' ministry, an usher, whether you are ministry, whatever that we are doing - &quot;we are foundation; we are building on this foundation. all building with six materials, but if you look into two categories. So track with me: wood, silver, precious stones are made pure by fire. you can get them off loads, and you can load your silver, precious stones are expensive, and you they fit in small purses, and they're way Wood, hay, and straw are always found on precious stones are never found on the ground silver, precious stones, you've got The value is higher; they're rare, and fire So now, in the context of ministry, everyone you an honest question: Is the ministry underground? It costs you. Life's troubles you burning and more pure. It's rare. Jesus's fire is going to test everyone's work. if our ministry for God, if our volunteering does that people don't see, that secret place, that but everything we do for God doesn't and all of our Christianity is what you see on hay, and straw. It's still appreciated by it's necessary. We need that. But ultimately, could turn your ministry into ashes. they give up; they feel burned out. And this is I say this is an answer to everyone's situation. 100%. But being in the ministry since I was 16, years, I've seen so much of the church politics. of people that you give a car to, and then they seen lies, falsehood, being misunderstood. the stuff that I personally have experienced, even I would say the only thing that kept me &quot;I'm like man, I don't want to do this anymore; I love for Jesus, and that love for Jesus was tested I didn't get what I felt like I was entitled to. place. And those feelings of, &quot;Lord, I want to is - you know, he was my mentor, but he's my and when you're young and insecure, every rejected me; he doesn't like me anymore.&quot; And what kept me grounded is really that love my ministry might not be big; my influence might like, &quot;Oh, God has really extended.&quot; But if you to grind my teeth on is this one thing: I want to the Lord. I want to build my ministry to the Lord If I get imprisoned, I still want to serve Jesus, drugs or stupid stuff. I'm not selling drugs, by and everybody leaves, I want my loyalty to Jesus finish the race strong, burning for Jesus, And that, my friends, it's not about the explosive gives us or not gives us. It's not about titles. if you're gold, silver, and precious stones, out gold, silver, and precious stones. You can go you'll be gold, silver, precious stones. But if you're going to go down in ashes. keeps going down in ashes, instead of blaming the examine your motive; examine your private hours in prayer; I'm not saying spend two hours there's a priority: the secret place. And convicts you, keeps your heart sensitive. not have blabbed, your heart judges you. That if and inside, a rebellion is building up, you going to the defense mode, because the greatest quality and benefit of the secret place. minutes in prayer; well, that's great. The you prayed or how much you read the Bible. To me, purpose of that time with God is to be close to God keeps helping me to keep my heart soft. I can handle it. But my heart to be so soft 'Could you not say this to anybody?' and I, on that I can't sleep next day, even Because my heart judges me. Why? Because the I'm not sensitive to people's remarks, comments; benefit of the secret place. When you lose the overly sensitive to everyone except the Holy and it's super soft - literally. I mean, you just 'I can't believe they do this to me.' It's And then you watch how the relationship with benefit of a secret place is this is it keeps your with people, where you can handle stuff, you can that; I can handle it.' Because the world is a And so, to me, that's the most important thing just want to share that with you: be gold, silver, and eventually when we stand before God isn't going to judge how big your work was. compare the size of 2x4 with a tiny little ring I haven't upgraded my ring. My wife upgraded three and then she found it, and she lost another is way more expensive. But this one has a right? This is like real diamonds, okay? okay? All right, so this precious stones and gold. All I need is silver. Now, in this world we live in today, even in the work you do based on the size and the influence. I just want to let you know that it's not the not how close and visible you are. In God's eyes, And that quality is not measured again by somebody can look and say, &quot;I'm just opening That's not how God judges things. That's why if that's not what the Lord called us to be. be faithful to God in that field, you really have &quot;I'm pleasing Him by doing this, and I don't need church, I feel like we kind of developed this because I will propagate that as well, or small things, God will give you great things.&quot; will be a senior pastor in 15 years. I know there we have to be very careful that we don't use our we want to be in, because then it's really kind this; I'm only doing this. Why? So that they could And it's almost like we've kind of built this kingdom, this is not bigger than a 2x4, but value system or the visuals that we see and or the people who get the most spotlight For example, you have a heart inside of forehead after 15 years of pumping blood visibility? Do you tell your heart, &quot;For your you're going to see everything.&quot; Now, your heart say, &quot;You know what, I am behind the scenes; I In fact, all the eyebrows wouldn't even work if I only the face gets the applause, not the heart.&quot; let's really upgrade your status; really little bit more reward; let's pull you out chest&quot; You're going to die; the heart is We have to be very careful that we don't serve looking for the next step. Because the very person person you're going to preach to; it's the same Is it true that the Lord will take people He will draw them in; He will kind of bring them it does not mean that the place I am in right now, It's not my stepping stone; it's my place to serve in this area, and it pleases Him, I am content. don't draw their value from their visibility. who can do that, whose value isn't but their value is connected to pleasing the Lord. lack of visibility - my kidneys and my lungs They will never be visible, and always valuable. in the church, are not visible. They do not have serving in all ministries, not just on the stage, we are going to have a deformed body, and we titles; we become addicted to our positions; and I would rather draw my identity and my value and then I fulfill the role that He gives me I am graced to have more influence than maybe I influence as I had the year before. Tomorrow, all completely, and I will become completely about me. And I have to be as happy and satisfied irrelevant, nobody cares about me, nobody knows usher. And that is not being degraded. I'm a to put me in, I got to do it for the Master. helps us to maintain that is if our goal is and we are seeking to do that, and we don't have keeps using the ministry to fix father wounds, a medication to really fix self-esteem problems. beginning, we start with the love for Jesus, but fix an inner wound. &quot;I need to be noticed; I need it's really a form of pride. But sometimes, the &quot;I was not loved; I was constantly belittled; I issues, the mama issues, all of that rejection, it needs to be dealt with. We go into ministry, things that only can be drawn from God. And it it doesn't truly satisfy. It's the water of keep drinking it; it keeps getting thirsty; Ministry is not a place where God heals your He exposes them. Healing happens in Jesus; healing heal the brokenhearted. The Bible doesn't say, heal their broken hearts.&quot; Ministries are where and everything. But it's not a place. So if things are surfacing, it doesn't mean quit just go to the Lord and you deal with that. it's not a place where you're constantly fishing for daddy issues to be fixed because that's really Amen. I don't know how I morphed but it somehow went into that. And God didn't God didn't call us to be busy, but fruitful. it says this: &quot;That you may walk... somebody I want you to see, fully pleasing Him. Say, fully he says, say, fruitful in every good work, God.&quot; Say, increasing in the knowledge of God. four parts, what is expected of us? walk worthy of the Lord. What does this mean? Your walk with the Lord is more important than Paul then tells us, &quot;Also, fully pleasing Him.&quot; decided. Meaning, what is the win in every - score points. In other games, you have to come And the win is not to be successful; the win, we're doing the wrong things. To be faithful What is the win? Is to please the Lord. But in to know if He's pleased or displeased, which means don't know Him. To please Him, this is huge. a few years ago, and I really kind of got into how shall I say, utilize my time and my gifts of was. I started to look at how I can optimize started to start more things, and all of that. a few days; I tried to do that regularly. I used mountain with the Lord, and I remember asking God it's in the Bible to reach more people. I wanted And the Lord redefined my win. He says, &quot;Your winning when you're reaching a lot of people.&quot; &quot;I want you to have a different win.&quot; He says, only discover the win that God...&quot; Meaning, your you. It can be discovered by you, but it cannot and He defines what that success is. and He said this, He said, &quot;I want you to set not be to be the best version, to reach more as many campuses, as many services, travel, be forward.&quot; He says, &quot;You will run at the pace that pace that will hurt your mental health. You will and you will run at the pace where you He says, &quot;I don't have that goal for you need to please Me.&quot; And I said, &quot;Now, what so you know.&quot; And after that, pressure went off. don't need to have a big church. Now, do I need to I love people? Yes, but because I need to please have a ministry that's large, if I make a lot pleased, and I won't even know if He's pleased or From that point on, I made it my win. I don't have a big--it doesn't matter what happens to me. to live a long life, but if He chooses, like John pleased the Lord. He fulfilled his task. Jesus, going to like that, but I'm here to please You. to be successful. Your win has to be to please honestly, you don't find successful. They're not pleases--it wouldn't please you to see you dying please me to finish my ministry at 33 and only die with half of your disciples knuckleheads, good place to finish, but it pleased the and He says, "Everything You gave Me, I kept. done." Most of us at 33 were like, "But there are to start a channel. I need to write a book." Jesus a small little place, under Roman regime, with few nothing big, never built a building, just a an embarrassing death, finished His role, but the the end of my life, and I didn't do anything, get anything. You're still thinking about the kingdom world. Paul said clearly, "Pleasing Him fully.&quot; thing, but didn't really do anything. Again., Him. "Is Jesus pleased with you?" I'm not saying, with you? If He's pleased with you, sleep not like I got a baby. Don't sleep like a baby. Sleep like When you walk the walk with Jesus, when you seek "Oh, I'm 35. I'm 45. I'm 60 and haven't from the--it will drive you into distress and a who are you trying to please anyway? Who are you about us that much as we think they should. the ground, yourself into the ground, chasing and bankrupt your own soul. Make your life easier. going to be an usher for the rest of my life, and I'm going to be the best usher they've ever seen. me to finance the kingdom of God, and that's and I die with none of it, well, you're going to is sponsored and Jesus is pleased, and I'm close beat you. I don't need to compete with you. And I need to be what my parents expected me to be. prove anything to my other siblings, my parents, that anymore. The pressure is off. Fully pleasing and all my life ends with this on the cross I'm good. And then, and then, come on, somebody. "Fully pleasing Him." And then only then, your you put the Colossians verse again? I want you "Fully pleasing Him, being fruitful." Somebody "Being successful"? Machines produce success. Only of the womb, and trees have fruits. Machines don't expects you to be fruitful in every work, which machine. You've got to live like a person that's Him. Meaning, I am seeking to please Jesus. or for you to think I'm somebody. And that's not for me. I'm going to live for Him. And if He is have to have an unsustainable rhythm in my life. not successful in that work. I am fruitful in that and my abounding flows from my abiding. A machine run all the time. Machines run on batteries. inside. I have life inside, which means if the spiritual connection, is bankrupt, I then longer fruitful in every work. I'm hopefully I'm trendy in every work, whatever it is, but and I don't have life anymore. I got gifts. I got life. I'm not connected. Fruitful in every work. While you're working for the Lord, really, from you're really seeking to please Jesus. Make sure positions in church change, and you're going from doesn't, yeah, kind of pinches a little bit, but kingdom. Your ego is not what you--ego is like and it grows naturally. Yeah, and then the church And if you're too attached to your position, too attached to that, you will constantly be as a person who everyone has to be around you constantly bitter at somebody, constantly has you'll see you don't have that sensitivity to that just needs to switch. That needs to start I'm walking worthy of the Lord, and then my work in every good work. And you know what the end knowledge of God. So, while in 20 years you than I knew before." Not more about God, but know if you don't do it this way, you will increase in increase in, "Man, I, man, I just, I just, it's just, just such a bad place, man." You'll increasing in the knowledge of God. Amen. Was this but I think this is a good place to that's what I want to pray for, is that during as maybe you're here, and especially when I shared and you're like, "Man, I think I have a Repent of that and realign with God's definition. "Not My will, but Your will be done." You say, my life to please You." David, when he lost the David said this prayer, and I've prayed this to pray. You've got to mean it if you're going seems good to You." When Saul heard that David got addicted to the position. When God says, "You're addicted. Why? Because when you're not addicted else. When you're not attached to that Vine, the criticism kills you, the compliments blow you of like a tree trying to find nourishment from the a ball of gold. A fish doesn't need gold. A fish and all of that. We don't need those things things are nice, but they're extra things. When you're not holding on to Him, you're not fully will hurt you. And it hurt Saul. He destroyed his David if all he would have done is transitioned should have never done those things. Who's the go and help David?" He would have never lost his battle. His other son's head would have never been his family. He held on to things he should have to God. God wasn't pleased with him. He should how can I please You?" Instead, he spent You will chase something. You will seek to please everyone, you're going to seek to please the easiest person to please, and it's because He fills you. Your attitude changes. You looks different because I exist to please the "Here I am. Send me." David says, "Here I am. Lord. I am Your servant. I want to please You. And I'm going to do the smallest tasks in the I got. I'm going to be as functional because You're my Boss. I want You to notice because Let's pray. Put your hand up on your we want to walk worthy of You. Jesus, we want we repent for living like machines we repent today for choosing the world's at the expense of bankrupting our own soul, Jesus, we want to increase in the knowledge of house to take us away from knowing You, loving even as we're serving, that our heart is I pray for those who maybe have abandoned that of Your word, abandoned time of prayer, and they too sensitive to minor, petty things, receive correction without starting World War that we become sensitive to Your voice, sensitive would You redirect us? Would You make our hearts presence, that tears can freely flow in our heart, have displeased You, and we will do everything and maintain that closeness with You. Lord, I pray and not because of how much work that they did, running with. And, Lord, and I know that You're them into Your presence. You're drawing them into them, refresh them. Holy Spirit, draw them, draw draw them to that burning bush like Moses had when and tired because he attempted to do something in it should work. And that burning bush rekindled included, the pastors, the leaders, the staff, the who maybe feel like they're just overworked or that sometimes can just easily rise up in our own us do it not because we're seeking for the men to to find another stepping stone to climb out place in the kingdom. Let us be gold, silver, hay, and straw ministries. Let us not be those move in You, and have our being in You, in