In today's episode we're going to talk to Jim Thunderbird. If you're a fan of Star Trek or this episode. So let's get right into it. My name time to chat about your Thunderbird this evening the audience a little background of the car that Deforest Kelley's bought new, he owned the and kind of disappeared maybe for 30 some years it as an important vehicle. Something that had a a 429 in it but also was belonged to Deforest Kelley. So does that seem accurate as is that pretty much the history I get that right? Yeah you got great to be here. He was the original owner think he took delivery at the end of 67 but it is the 429 in it. Didn't come out until 1968 so uh I stumbled upon an article, and uh I was a Star project car, saw that it was for sale, and called bought the car and she said no. So next thing you it shipped all the way out to California where I this car. He owned it for a long time. That would is that your understanding as well? Yeah, I have it I never met Deforest Kelley but um I did get in Chris has been invaluable telling me stories Deforest Kelley and their relationship. There's some it was his pride and joy. He took very good care of it. Chris told me that and I think it might be in sold it. So uh yeah he really did love it. He kept a love affair with it. He had it for over 23 years he wanted so for him to hold on to a car like Absolutely. I'm a doctor not an engineer. Now you're when, when you picked it up? Cause it was tucked away, time for car to be out of circulation. What kind uh in California but at least one owner after he New York and I I don't know how long it was there. York. When I got it it was in pretty rough shape. it's a 56 year old car right? The last probably cared for, you could just tell. So it wasn't running just it literally had a bunch of garbage in it. It rough. In fact when I got it I kind of thought into?, because when you see pictures and videos it and it had taken a you know week long trip across general it was it was in pretty rough shape when Thunderjet four barrel carb, what did you do to it? that engine in that platform? Yeah it's a it's a uh I was thrilled when I learned that it had that lot of trouble getting it started when I first I did was I put an electronic ignition in it and the appearance of the engine so when you open the and that made a a big difference. The engine runs new and so I definitely baby it but when this get up and go and it's running great right now. So Dr McCoys Thunderbird that's DR abbreviated for description so some of the viewers can find you. he's made from looking at what you've done there that I've restored a lot of cars well over 50 cars that's something I would have probably farmed out. of the mechanical stuff you farmed out. So your on that and what are some of the repairs that you for old cars and and kind of fixing things up. I'm things on this car that I have to take it in and taking things apart I can change out some parts. You know I'm pretty good at making stuff look better. The trunk is a is a great example. That's when I got it and it it looks almost brand new if I just kind of you know you just kind of dig in want to break anything that's not already broken of its history I'm trying to keep it as original hanging down. When I was driving it home after I the headliner was hanging down behind me so I So it was beyond repair and I figured well I for it. I definitely didn't do a perfect job but yeah I'm okay with fixing things here in there take it in and and get some help with that. You that a 100 times. That's also not easy because different lengths and different types and what take the whole thing out but I took the front off. bulbs in there and I wanted to get those working. working. All the interior lights didn't work so fuse issues and I figured that out. I wanted to get clocks and clocks notoriously don't work in cars those were the two things I went into to get. Got and I took the clock out, and I watched a bunch of since stopped. I've got to do it again and I may but I did get it working. That's going to lead me this car you're not considering a full-blown elevate the car back to when Deforest owned it. pictures of him with the car that uh somebody took she's a big fan of the car her name is Tracy. In here and there that are still on the car and and that really what I'm trying to do is res when I It just looked sad and I think I've accomplished never going to be perfect. So that's kind of what because the paint's not great on it. I think that's want to mention that you've been taking this car letting them know that this was Deforest Kelley's circulation for 30 plus years and here you are stars cars. I don't know of any of the other is or Shatner's Stingray. I don't hear anything that you're not going to restore it because if you comes along with it. It's nice to hear. Yeah and it be sort of like when he owned it right? Because it. I just want to kind of sort of freeze that working well. I want it to, it's got to be safe, you my two teenage kids take it for a ride once in a and and it pretty much is. I've still got a lot that you're sharing it with the public and I've you're letting people sit in it. Yeah. What kind of these are probably more Star Trek fans than they are have both followers on Facebook. The reaction that figured the Star Trek fans would get a kick out of I have seen this car move people to tears. Tears of folks going crazy for it. I've seen young teenage fans go crazy for it. I wasn't expecting that. going to bring to people and I think it's really a gentleman's, gentleman and he was also famous of his fans. He really treasured them, and the car they remember uh what a gentleman he was and and met him at a Star Trek convention and remember and so yeah I let him sit in it. That's another It's okay to sit in it, touch it. I want to give a really exciting part of owning the car and to this level. I know you've got some work to do piece of the car with the listening audience. So is a piece of the headliner that you replaced. what price are you selling these at? I have one that started was a lot of people were saying, me to help you know fund the car, and it is not Especially that one because that's not one you're didn't want to do a GoFundMe um but I also had of the trim and that sort of thing. So I came up although it wasn't working as a headliner it still and so I created those cards and I said hey give the proceeds for the car for the for those go to just own a piece of it and uh again another to your Facebook page If they reach out to you you shouldn't have to pay to send the things out restore the car I think that's that's pretty there. So yeah if you go on my Facebook page and to you. Awesome. I know I know you've got one it's it's right beside my, I don't know if you can it's right beside my William Shatner picture and certificate. Which was one of my birthday gifts you want to get in here Jim as far as to the the I think uh you know it I'm having a lot of fun Automotive History and it's a piece of Star sense of responsibility to take good care of it. and and kind of now that I know how people Deforest Kelley, I feel a tremendous sense of kind So uh I'm going to keep showing it to people, and cry and uh you know let them sit in it and keep doing it. That's awesome. it's it's like away for so long is back in the public eye what you're doing everything you're doing and just it's great. Thank you for for being on the oh What's the matter with you? Kidney dialysis. you swallow that, and if you have any problems There you have it. Dr McCoy Thunderbird. Deforest Kelley's car of 21 years. It was hidden away for 32 years out of the public Spotlight. It's now car's importance, and is elevating the level. to make it nicer. Make it usable, and share it good a result as one could hope for. Now if you that helps other people see it and also consider on the channel. I have this video right over here cars in in detail. That's it for today. Thanks [Music]