The Kirby games are loved by fans for many creative...and occasionally, they're surprisingly it has its moments that range from a little with 1UpBinge, and this is Dark Kirby Where else can we begin but the beginning of the It didn't take Kirby long at ALL to compared to what you'd expect from the look at this adorable Japanese commercial...aww. Naturally, 2D platformers aren't especially in the early '90s. Imagine, then, series having a genuine plot twist, escalating food to that same pudgy penguin king trying who psychologically tortures the citizens of dreams in the process. Rightfully concerned, Kirby releases Nightmare into the world. Honestly, guy-unless you count that RIDICULOUSLY loud death the fact that it kickstarted Kirby's decades-long And where would that streak be without Dark Matter? When Dedede realized he had a moral realized they still kinda needed a villain-and him repeatedly possessed by dark forces beyond of danger and general body horror, whether it's in Dream Land 3 and Kirby 64, or him becoming the only victim, though-turn your attention to game without collecting all of the Crystal Shards, and the Gang to Ripple Star...followed by an ominous Matter is alive and well...and after the credits again with Kirby away. It's pretty darn ominous first of all, the series just keeps outdoing in the Kirby series-as WEIRD as it is to say Just like we're used to fighting the villains' always the case-enter Drawcia Soul. What? It's ooookay. This absolute masterpiece from hell last-ditch effort to annihilate Kirby. Drawcia was the franchise, given her ability to de-limb Kirby this first Soul fight of the series escalated that combined with this freaky design make this one Kirby series. But, like the last entry-while this kind, it's still a fight that pales in comparison Like, for example, the very first villain in murdered. Everyone take a bow for The Tragedy in this case-is paved with good intentions, the hard way. Although initially framed Taranza is later revealed in the series' lore the Queen. That said, he didn't want to stop given that he managed to get his hands gift to remind her how downright gorgeous she loved the mirror...like, REALLY loved it, to so much that Dark Meta Knight successfully who cruelly oppressed her subjects-and forced this goes from depressing to a little she tears her own head off of her body in sheer bosses who appeared throughout the series. If it's the prospect of losing to her INCREDIBLY hard Arena again. Maybe hire an exorcist next time, On today's episode of "How is this man still alive," we now move on to Marx's Soul. ALL knew would be here at some point. First of which earns it some points for shock value. The Ultra when a cinematic cutscene revealed that Marx he's done screwing around-absorbing Nova's power of his true form. This fight is basically are way faster, his laughter is more sinister and...alright, we ALL know the main part. Yeah, the music didn't stop there-it was have evolved beyond jumpscares since then, still genuinely surprising to see in a Kirby But if you ask any Kirby fan what DOESN'T wear they've developed thanks to Morpho Knight. You where Spongebob and Patrick mistake a butterfly and it causes panic in the town? Yeah...Morpho Based on a beta version of Meta Knight's design, of Kirby: Star Allies. Entering the arena as often seen playing with in cutscenes, he we'll remind you, is supposedly the STRONGEST straight-up gone. But of course, that's just sure, but it's not canon, right? Enter Kirby post game mode for a set of remixed, harder Morpho Knight-who absorbs Soul Forgo and steals what Morpho Knight wants-but he's one of the very and the fact that it has no issue absorbing Really makes you see those scenes of him Alright, how about we take a break to we didn't get off on the right foot-but you gotta considering What Could've Happened...in the Deluxe-HIGHLY recommend, by the way-everything refined to the extreme. Well, almost everything. which had a refreshing remaster of the original although hard for the standard of Kirby games to pretty much anything after it. This includes Magolor's remaining soul disappear as a and friends. If you listen closely, you can hear Knowing that Magolor has canonically reformed harder to hear him being tortured by the Master and Kirby's his last chance at being freed that this could've VERY easily happened close to overpowering Magolor even been joining Sectonia and Haltmann in the Speaking of which, it's time to finally discuss an evil man, for sure-he had no issue invading to harvest resources. That said, it's hard not and madness was the result of his daughter's he'd never see her again, he poured all of Company. This resulted in the creation of Star the power to grant wishes. President Haltmann back(unaware that she was his secretary) but was completely taken over by Star Dream-and his this is all but confirmed as Star Dream Soul OS's monologues, and in the final phase you can parts of Star Dream's core. As you destroy these there's absolutely nothing remaining of him. Say got to go out quickly. This man had to have his But as far as morbidly tragic villains are drop that is Void. For years, we wondered what of bubble gum, or a marshmallow? I was personally Star Allies debunked this theory. After defeating its core is revealed to be a creature called creepy already-it looks like a creepy, soulless DLC update came out, it revealed that this was Kirby is a reincarnation of Void, and therefore only difference is that Kirby is made only of to Void, who reaches the peak of sheer negative its hope that, upon being wiped out, it may be brutal enough, when you take Void down, it smiles. of his own negative reincarnated energy out of Speaking of dark, you didn't REALLY think right? We've still got to mention Zero moment in the Kirby series, Zero Two The Crystal Shards. After collecting all of the Dark Star can be accessed-and herein lies Design wise, it's more or less a cross between and the angel "wings" also look like The red-and-black backgrounds complement this that that aforementioned bleeding is its only crystals into an eyeball, which is pretty Two. It'd be crazy if there was another, even But for right now, how about we settle for top three with Fecto Forgo. At the tail end of it's revealed that Leon-and by extension, the and controlled by Fecto Elfilis, Elfilin's but still. After Leon is defeated, naturally can still act as flesh, right? Fecto breaks free members of the Beast Pack into itself to create an you've been fighting throughout the game. As game has gotten to legitimately fitting into the forcing you to run away as you chip away at but still-the atmosphere is absolutely the most unsettling music in the entire Oh, you didn't think we were done with Canvas was terrifying, check out World of Drawcia. reshape the world to fit their own twisted and the means to actually do it. World of Drawcia if it doesn't completely contrast everything terrifying, from its eerie music that sounds attack to the weird painting enemies who just just happy to see you frightened. It's become if Drawcia had fully succeeded. Think such a short level, and it feels like But as dark as the psychological side of horror Kirby's Dream Land 3: Zero. Okay, sure-purely Two. But imagine if we took the shock of into what is otherwise one of Kirby's cutest and you can fight me on that-has a pastel-colored adorable Gooey and 6 cuddly animal buddies, and precious video games out there. So with that being they thinking with THIS?? There's just...NO way to game, it doesn't tie into the villain's plan or out from its cornea as it desperately tries to the first instance of body horror in the series, gore or just sheer shock value, Zero is a pretty