Throughout his career Uncle Roger AKA stand humiliating chefs and has had many victims.....the a video to his youtube channel titled "Uncle it was basically a video roasting the BBC's the video since then has 37 million views BBC's rice led to uncle roger collabing the following month Uncle Roger honed in on his Oliver. Uploading a video titled "Uncle According to Uncle Roger he got most things wrong, the rice being too wet, using no garlic,using instead of a wok and just generally making ancestors to weep....but also cry with joy because "Finally, there is someone who can Not just a random complaint, uncle This would be the first entry of a one cooking ability.....However Uncle Roger isn't Throughout his career Jamie's managed to and become incredibly successful doing so, he's also managed to acquire a huge reasons that go into people hating Jamie The first being his war on school dinners both frustrated at the state of school meals and action, which is a fair and noble cause. However turkey twizzlers banned in the UK, causing uproar showed a bunch of kids how chicken nuggets chicken nuggets. This event would even lead The next factor was his role in the Sugar tax would make soft drink companies sugar have to pay between 18p and 24p for 50% of the sugar sweetened soft drinks market Jamie was instrumental in getting this tax talking to politicians. But the people of Scotland he even proposed a 2-4-1 ban on pizzas, poorest in society . It seemed like The third factor, In June 2008 Jamie launched a at its peak had 42 restaurants in the UK and world. However in 2011, he gained controversy in the restaurants were from an industrial be a problem if Jamie Oliver wasn't such a and using local produce. Not only that, the the food quality began rapidly declining in a lot 25 restaurants getting closed down by may 2019 and overseas locations were franchises so revealed that he was pulling restaurants out Uncle Roger tweeted "If he wanted to hurt Russia, The final major factor in people is because of a scandal in 2018 in which he microwavable jerk rice. He labeled the product literally didn't include any of the ingredients This resulted in the product getting removed from specialists to advise on future cookbooks. a chef will take a cuisine from around the and just call it experimentation and include example both Jamie and Gordon Ramsay angered After Uncle Roger roasted Jamie's egg fried rice analyzing and reacting to his Indonesian Gordon was actually very good at making fried One commenter underneath the video stated.... that he traveled the world to master his craft. He unknown commenter stated "Happy you approve roger" to getting the asian cuisine completely gordon showed a head chef at a top thai On the 31st of January 2021 Uncle Roger would cooking, this time seeming like he had learnt from rice but still mostly fucking up the sauce for hundreds of millions of views across platforms This would lead to an uncle roger roasting make ramen. As predicted, the methods, were just plain wrong, most notably using "As a Japanese my soul is crushed. leaves pork belly unflavoured, puts on says it's ramen. Jamie Oliver, you need Over the next 2 years Uncle Roger by creating five more roasting videos, butter chicken and even being held During this period Uncle Roger met Gordon In the caption of the video Uncle Roger stated minutes when meeting. Which kinda makes have had a complex relationship for over other. In 2015 while opening a restaurant in I came to my opening right? If you're at least turn up." Jamie defends not turning to take the attention away from staff. In 2017 eating stating "It;s all very well to spout off that was spoken about when he was label-slapping but we're chefs, not politicians. When you breathe leaving if we have Brexit, then I'm sorry, the the only time he opens his mouth is Despite this the two supposedly squashed the beef show and talked about the fall of Jamie's Jamie has been targeted throughout Uncle 2024 Uncle roger took things to the next Oliver's lamb curry song with world famous song AKA Give it to me hot was a lyrical a white guy with pukka shells heard reggae written to be part of Jamie's live cooking dish as the song lyrics were playing. the fact that at one point in time people would song and three he made a reggae song for a lamb The following week Uncle Roger created a Benny blanco with all proceeds going to To this day Jamie has never acknowledged uncle to be involved in internet theatrics but it does taking it personally or doesn't see the funny public persona to people outside of unseasoned Thank you so much for watching this video, I all of my socials @phatmemer, like, subscribe