All these years You are the first person to eat stinky tofu with me Such deliciousness No one shared it with you Hello This is K2 Mainland China branch liaison officer Snow Fox I have something else to do You go first Let's talk tomorrow But I'll be back tomorrow. Let's talk next time. good You don't like her White Whale You always say that my nose can smell an undercover agent I also doubt Why are you still here chatting and laughing with her? Employ people you doubt, and be suspicious of people you employ This should be a doubtful statement. Don't doubt the people you employ. This is too profound for you. You just need to execute The order to kill is Boss, why are you fishing here? I'm thinking about the problem Is it more of a scenic spot to go to the river? Fish it up It affects my thinking I just need to keep the fishing mentality What do you want me for? There is information that The woman before was indeed an undercover agent I already knew it And recently she has also been at the border Contact one of our former traitors Catch I go You can kill people You can't arrest people. You are not detailed enough You only cause trouble Last time was I go Are you crazy? You have this face. How do you plan to go? As long as you show up at the Chinese border It's even rarer than a white bear. Notify Black Shark Ready to start Secret Base I'm in trouble What is the situation The target of the connector does not appear I was targeted instead Evacuate immediately Too late They are already outside the door Don't hang up Support team is coming soon Sorry, bro. Take me away Get on board Notify the police immediately to intercept Black Shark No more pretending? What do you want from me? The secret of your infiltration into K2 how I don't know anything Do you think I will believe it? Believe it or not, that's your business. It's your business whether to say it or not Actually, I really don't mind you at all Cruel You should know my methods. Such a beautiful woman Are you really willing to endure that? The pain of hell on earth? I know you have faith Ke Shi Ni De Xin Yang Zai Na Chong Nan Ai De Tong Chu What can you get in the face of humiliation? You only ask for a quick death I know You've been trained in torture. But trust me My men will not let you down. He's better than any executioner you've ever heard of. All must be perverted to be honest I'm a little afraid of him because Because of his perversion It's me You know, I can't control it effectively. My heart isn't that hard. I am a troubadour As an artist I have always been compassionate When I think of such a beautiful face How come you are such a beautiful lady? To become horrible I really Can't bear it Please keep in mind You want to rescue A meritorious investigator go through fire and water Obscurity Her name perhaps I can't tell you Her code name Snow Fox Please Please bring Comrade Snow Fox Rescue alive because She works for For the motherland Sacrificed too much Comrades Please Human Torch Unless you die never give up Unless you die never give up salute Fighting Tiger Silent Operation Kill enemies efficiently Silent Operation Kill enemies efficiently explain It doesn't matter Calm The most important thing for action is calmness Calm as water Don't think about anything That's someone who has nothing to do with you. You promised me To come back alive I know You just need to tell me The secret I want to know You don't have to suffer this anymore. You just open your mouth Open your mouth right Open your mouth I am indeed I really want to help you relieve the pain of living a life worse than death But my boss won't let me do that. He thought you would open your mouth. You know you open your mouth How much money can I get I can't spend all my life I can hide in A remote mountainous area on a continent Never have to return to this sinful world again Do you have the life to spend? You doubt my ability Your hands Bloodstained No matter where you escape to Our People Will find you Otherwise they'll capture you alive otherwise Make you a lonely ghost This evil world It doesn't mean you can quit it if you want to. Your only way out now Just let me go Come back with me and surrender Our People We will consider your case accordingly. Smilodon This is Flying Wolf complete Airwolf, sabertooth tiger received Smilodon Communication test, completed receive I saw you guys clicked on Razer complete Smilodon We are ready to move on Is there any change in the enemy situation? complete Ten kilometers away from the target There are people moving around It should be their patrol team. complete Received You have to be careful complete Received, completed They are experts Ring Defense Three-dimensional position Look over there Three o'clock Sniper More than one group At my nine o'clock There is also a sniper team They are more professional than we thought I said Don't underestimate the enemy What are we waiting for? Just kill it directly. Listen to Feilang's arrangements I wonder if Zhan Hu and the others have set off yet. Smilodon We are approaching the fake area complete Falcon received I saw your location. Thunderbolt hasn't taken action yet Keep your distance from the target area Don't alert the enemy complete receive We move in the direction of 454 complete receive complete Haven't they started yet? Feilang must have his considerations. We await orders receive Attention all units We move in the direction of 454 Standby complete Received, completed Received, completed Enemies all around We have to find The greatest threat The machine gun position The greatest threat This is a hedgehog nest. There are two sniper teams over there. Once the shot is fired The hedgehog's nest exploded Sniper Group The sniper team received At my nine o'clock There is an enemy sniper position See? I see I command You two Go around from the flank Silent Approach Silent Battle Clearly no clear Dark Horse receive You and the stupid bird To deal with another enemy sniper team The same silent approach Silent Battle Clearly no clear Didn't you agree to cover us? Feilang has an order, you guys be quiet Stupid Bird Walk careful It seems that it is too early to take the reassurance pill Stop talking Chirp again Use you to enforce battlefield discipline Medical team, alert I'm fine You are the most stubborn woman I have ever seen. You are tougher than a man. Say or not She's alive That's a good thing Each group Have you arrived? We're ready to go down. They didn't respond Can't wait any longer stop If you dare to act rashly, I will shoot you now Remember what you promised me before you came Don't make mistakes Hands-on What are you hesitating about? nothing first Now There's no time to think about anything else. clear Scalpers succeed Dark Horse Wins complete Listen carefully We are ready to act dolphin You follow me Wait outside the camp complete receive complete The moment I put on my military uniform You should realize You will have a real battle day I know I have done a lot of mental preparation before. But I didn't expect it to be so messy over thinking To lose life Do your job well I see They took action We are on yes Dry Cover them you Can't run away Then give it a try Reloading fry This place is up to you. good Black Shark Go save people first. What about you? I still have things to do Go fast Don't you want to save her? Feilang went alone He's fine. Walk Walk Dandan Dandan You can't die You can't die Dandan Dandan Dandan Wang Xing I am Wang Xing Dandan, I am Wang Xing Medical Group Medical Group Dandan You can't die Dandan Dandan quick Quick, bandage it. Give her a shot of cardiotonic yes Dandan alright Take her out. Don't just stand there, we're still fighting. hurry up Gone I lead the team yes Dark horse, quick Too many people Sniper Group What are you doing? We are covering you Nine o'clock 40 Tue It's done Go fast withdraw Listen to my orders Don't hurt your own people They are in the car Fire Big fireworks Not bad It's more lively than the fireworks in my hometown Oops Go fast etc. Let me leave them another call. How is she? Don't know yet We will try our best Where is Flying Wolf? He went after the black shark. He is alone right Stone OK Walk Scalper, withdraw valuable Go fast I'm hurt Stone Stone Stop talking nonsense Let's go I can't walk anymore Go away! Walk Stone Fighting Tiger Scalper Call I need air cover. cattle Zhanhu received Please report your location Smoke is the direction receive We passed You guys should keep hidden cattle We see you. Start bombing yes One more time shot It's all over. right I killed your wife. shot I killed your wife I ruined your life. Destroy your family Let your lovely daughter No more mother Why didn't you shoot? Why didn't you shoot? Put your hands up Want to shoot me Kneel down Kneel down I will satisfy you You are captured You can't do this Shoot me Not that easy You will be judged by law I know You want to capture me alive You won't succeed You can't escape Black Shark is in trouble His base The pot was taken away Where's the woman we caught? Rescued by Gao Shenghan's team It's Gao Shenghan again I killed the wrong person. What a pity I figured out how to do it. Easier said than done It's too difficult to be him in mainland China Last time It was a chance But no one expected The one who picked up the child was not Gao Shenghan But his wife Now he has a grudge against us for killing his wife. You don't know Gao Shenghan People like him Not influenced by personal grudges Kill his wife or not They are all our mortal enemies I'm avoiding Gao Shenghan Not because he killed his wife. That is Because he's really hard to deal with. The best special forces guy I know. pity Not soft or hard I would like to meet this Gao Shenghan How powerful is it? you Not his opponent I've never seen such a great person. No I'll let him know how powerful I am. Black Shark said so too Now A prisoner superior what to do Jade Rabbit has not arrived yet Should we wait a little longer? Can't wait for her, let's go quick Military intelligence is orders Fast Action good Come She's here Here it comes hurry up quick Come Report Jade Rabbit Returns Everything is arranged at home Arranged OK, go ahead. Go ahead Falcon, we're good. I bombed the tank Wang Xing Wang Xing today It's my death date Before Death I want to tell you I've fallen in love with you No Wang Xing Wang Xing Cover him, quick. Wang Xing Wang Xing Wang Xing Black Dragon Why are you going Black Dragon Black Dragon Black Dragon Black Dragon under under Welcome Just opened Yes Yes Just opened for two days We are Fight Club Although it has just opened But it is very professional Our coaching team They are all professional fighters this Graduated from Shaolin Martial Arts School That Winners in national competitions Young man Our club is a membership-based Are you interested in getting a membership card? There are platinum, gold and silver cards Of course Each card has different benefits Okay, let me explain it to you. Let's just forget it. Why not? They can't They can't yet They are the best coaches. Buddy If you can't play, don't play Don't speak so loudly. brother There's no harm in being humble. I really think you can't You're pretty good at what you say. How about this? Let's discuss If you can beat me I'll apply for a card Boss, what do you think? Can Just enough Don't hurt people rest assured I won't hurt him. How are you How are you Are you coming again? How's it going, boss? I said the person you are looking for is not good enough What? Why don't you come up and try it? No, no It seems that I really don't know the real thing. A master like you if Are you interested in being my coach? I can hire you at a high salary How about it I don't have time boss I want to try girl Who are you I'm here to apply for a fighting coach position. How about it Let's compare Your figure Walking on the catwalk is OK Let's just forget about the fight If you are interested When I am your girlfriend If you can beat me I might consider it. A promise is a promise younger sister This kid is not easy to deal with. I just tried it Don't lose both your wife and your army girl It seems you came prepared. You will also fight Lost I'm his girlfriend If you win You give me a high salary I don't have a problem with that. Today is really weird What's your name? It's rude to ask a girl's name casually Has no one taught you since you were a child? You look like someone special. I've seen this trick many times Don't you want to know? It's none of my business I really don't want to know Then you have to fart. Looks like my next girlfriend I'll talk about it after we win. boss Make a suggestion explain Regardless of whether this girl wins or not Trying to keep her. good Why This girl's behavior is very strange I'm sure She must have received more professional training than me. Yeah Watch it This guy is no match for her. Are you coming yet? Come again Dissatisfied Come again Come again brother You've lost three rounds in a row. It would be too much to hit him again. Do you know why you lost? Your coordination and explosiveness are quite amazing. Awareness is also good but It's a wild way No systematic training This is what he learned from fighting in gangs. How is the boss? Do I meet your requirements? It fits, it fits. It fits. If you are willing to stay and be our coach I can pay you twice as much. That's right I can give you an annual salary. How about it Of course I would You forgot I'm here to apply for a coach. Very good I'll register you for employment. That's right I'll arrange five insurances and one housing fund for you May I have your name My name is Long Dandan Long Dandan boss Please give me a platinum card from your company. I pay double the annual fee But I have one condition I specify Long Dandan Be my full-time coach Then you May I have your name Wang Xing OK, Wang Xing Within half a year I'll take your fighting skills to the next level. So what you said before still counts? What did I say before? If I win you Be my girlfriend You beat me first, then we'll talk good Come Stop here. stop XXVIII XXIX thirty Thirty-one Take a break I'll take a break Can we take a break? I practice, I practice You can't beat me anymore Be my girlfriend Your winning rate is not yet 100% Then come again I'm tired I'm going home Where do you live? I send you Need not Black Dragon 007 You are using your smartphone illegally. Are you sure? Isn't it just a smartphone? Give it back to me now Who is this She's pretty Your girlfriend Does it have anything to do with you? Of course this girl has nothing to do with me. But this phone has something to do with me. This is my phone You are the trainee and I am your instructor. Do you think this phone has anything to do with me? Okay, okay. Go and make a report. You're still excited, aren't you? Otherwise I can still be caught by you What do you mean Don't you just want to catch me? So that I can't defeat you You actually thought so Women's thoughts I know it if you don't shut up You know women so well. Your Women's Friend Who is the friend of women Who is friends with you, a woman? Brother, I am a girl's friend Who are you saying is old? I'm only twenty-one this year Twenty-one At 21, you still have the nerve to say you are a girl you You stinky hooligan What's wrong with me Go tell Feilang about it. You think I don't dare? You dare I know you dare I'll be fired. You don't have to compare. Provocation You think I'm buying into this? Do other people eat this? Hard to say But you'll definitely buy into this You know me well Self-love Do I need to know you? You can