Since the latter half of the 4th century AD, the The period was marked by widespread social unrest, the far side of the Rhine and Danube rivers. countless Germanic warbands and tribes, flooded across the border. In the West, little could be done to The government was sapped by over a century political, cultural, and economic forces which of poor economic policies in turn weakened Army to a pale shadow of its former self. of the poor, tying the populace to the lands of that many found it better to rebel and become As a result, when the pressure along the resources to defeat its old enemies, leading The Province of Britain was lost, most of Gaul and Northern Africa defied the empire. Rome was on its last legs. Germanic tribes came the nomads from the East, They were; the Huns... It is the year 423 AD. The Hunnic domain stretches from the river Rhine to warriors left a trail of untold destruction that Their ability to appear out of nowhere made them At this time, the Huns were ruled the east. It was during their reign that the And, after Octar's death in 430, it is thought managing to significantly centralize war machine that became the terror of Europe. Hunnic raids. Emperor Theodosius II found it more gold in exchange for peace, as he often had The situation in the West, The chaotic 30-year rule of Theodosius' uncle, to prevent the erosion of the Western Empire, Having left no heir, influential elites as his successor. However, not being he was not recognized by the Wasting no time, Emperor Theodosius made to put his cousin, young Valentinian III, on however, came at a price, and Illyricum Knowing that war was coming, with seeking military help from the Huns. and was groomed for imperial He spent a part of his young adult a position of great significance and diplomatic relations between During his time there, Aetius developed close He played a key role in establishing diplomatic the invaluable Hun mercenaries, whilst the Most importantly for Aetius, his personal Influential Romans not only sought his but relied on him to provide barbarian troops when Likewise, Joannes needed an army to hold onto who used his personal connections with the But, he could not make it in time. dose of betrayal, the Eastern Roman Valentinian III on the throne, in May 425. By marching against the legitimate emperor of the the wily general used the Hunnic army The young emperor's formidable mother, Galla throne during Valentinian's minority, quickly and thought it wise to not only but handed him command over Gaul Meanwhile, from the plains across the Danube, Ruga on the pretext of going to war with the who have fled into Roman territory. he died - some say of the plague, others Whatever the case, such a capable leader would've that the barbarians would fade away, now Indeed, in the years after his death the slowly shrunk, as tribes to the east and By the time his nephews Bleda and Attila inherited centered around Pannonia, with their sphere of Sarmatian and Slavic tribes in the more immediate a major impact on Roman politics. capable to adapt to the ever changing, To conclude Ruga's campaign, in 435 they The annual tribute paid to the Huns trade routing concessions were made, Hunnic and Theodosius had to surrender prominent Hunnic who were subsequently crucified by Attila as Born into the most powerful Hunnic family, Bleda's and Attila's growing up was far from the Instead, they enjoyed a life no They received excellent education in military speak in Gothic and Latin, and were well versed in they received expert training in archery, sword It seems that Bleda ruled as supreme while Attila controlled the western reaches, where towards the Rhine. Attila continued to maintain the lucrative his brother, would continue to provide military To repay his Hunnic friends for their assistance ceded parts of Pannonia, and bestowed Attila which entitled the Hunnic king to a hefty salary The Roman general then promptly He killed off political opponents and used the in a series of civil wars, The Vandal king Gaiseric exploited the internal overrun Roman Mauretania, and establish a eventually capturing Carthage in 439. Aetius managed to negotiate a treaty, territory he had conquered, in exchange for But he had no intention of actually recovering still considered part of the empire in the by the Picts and other barbarians, Instead, Aetius made the preservation of He drove back the Visigoths to successfully stopping their expansion in a In the north, he defeated and enlisted them as foederati of the empire, Rebels in Raetia and Noricum were ruthlessly on the Danube north of the Alps. Burgundian army near the Middle Rhine and he broke the treaty and invited Attila's Huns to Tens of thousands were killed, while Aetius few years later, effectively breaking A major insurrection of the Bagaudae rebels for brigands, migrants who escaped the chaos in deserters, all banded together in open resistance The ever-unstable region continued to be a To free up his troops, Aetius resettled tasking them with containing the Bagaudae in the By now, Aetius emerged as the most powerful man in the West. He treated Gaul internal and external threats at the expense Realizing that Rome's resources were committed First, Gaiseric married his son Huneric to Not only could such an alliance overpower the revenue from Africa were cut off. Aetius which would leave the empire defenseless. The captured Roman ports and vessels in Africa News of barbarians pouring across the A year later, Theodosius dispatched a massive to mount the expedition, the Emperor pulled this hadn't gone unnoticed by Rome's neighbors. Nearly two years of small scale fighting the draining of Rome's resources, before Back on the Danube frontier, the Huns invaded in Battering rams, scaling ladders, and mobile towers fortified cities set the Huns apart from other Balkans were reduced to ruins one by one. they could carry, Attila and Bleda after sending their demands to Theodosius. He recalled the troops from Sicily and ordered to finance the war against the Huns, In 443, the Huns responded with another were heavily damaged, with entire populations as far south as Thermopylae in Greece, and The Eastern capital was safe behind its walls, but Unable to deal with the onslaught, the humiliated 6,000 pounds of gold as punishment for and the annual tribute was with the ransom for every captured As the Huns retreated back to their possibly a victim of assassination. Meanwhile in the West, the They tied down Roman forces in Gaul and took of time before they would overrun the empire. cause. Valentinian has grown, but he was Emperor Italy itself. But, what little influence he had, in his fight against the barbarians, clearly True to form, Aetius freely To consolidate his own position to Gaiseric and proposed a marriage between It was a brilliant move. He was was already married to Theodoric's daughter, wedge between the Vandals and the Visigoths, The ploy worked. tempting for Gaiseric. He would now have overextended, and to consolidate his More importantly, the opportunity to marry his son pass up. The Vandal King cared little that Huneric To get rid of her, he accused her of trying before sending her back to Theodoric. To the west, in Hispania, Aetius was slowly he schemed by keeping the Visigoths busy if they aided Rome in putting down a revolt of power of the Suebi, who had by now greatly The expedition, however, was defeated, Visigothic forces away from By 447, his two-pronged diplomatic mission to succeeded completely - it was Aetius' scheming continued in Italy, when he daughter. Not only did this further but marrying into the Theodosian line would However, in the east, storm In 447, the Huns crossed the Danube yet again. and a succession of earthquakes, spread and Theodosius was forced to And now, Attila came to collect what he was owed. who's walls have been severely damaged during An army marched out to meet the invaders, while However, the Romans suffered Utus, but not without inflicting Left unopposed, the Huns laid waste to destruction that they remained desolate until But, the walls of Constantinople Once again, the city's formidable defenses left Theodosius was again forced to buy peace of the lower Danube frontier as a buffer that were controlled by the empire for everyone of his power and ability But, things soon changed with and the accession of the new He immediately adopted a stronger and put a stop to the ruinous tribute The new emperor's comprehensive that the East would be a more Attila was angered, Instead, the Hunnic king turned west. He forbade the Hun mercenaries and began preparing for a confrontation Good relations between Attila and Aetius and the Roman general would no longer be able A few reasons are suggested for but it is not entirely clear why he abandoned Whatever his reasons, a direct invasion allies that formed the bulk of his army. He One was the recent death of the Frankish King throne, splitting the kingdom in two, with the other from Attila. But the Frankish internal The other was Justa Grata Honoria, Valentinian's emperor and seize power, but the plot was a senator loyal to the emperor, who could keep she went as far as sending a letter and A This may or may not have been a marriage proposal, He accepted and asked for half of the Western proposal and refused Attila's demands. This was the pretext that the Hunnic king needed. The war had begun... In moving against the West, Attila but someone who is claiming his right as And with Honoria as his wife, the Hunnic king and continue the previous policy of with the added benefit of territory within the Rarely, if ever, was Aetius caught so completely invasion, he set out from Italy to Gaul... but Aetius brought with him the Auxilia Palatina. troops, capable of holding firm in line of battle, Nevertheless, even when combined Aetius still didn't have the It seemed that the Roman general For over 20 years he relied on the Huns and Alans Burgundians, and Bacaudae. But now, with Attila on Realizing he could never persuade Theodoric sought assistance from Avitus. Avitus once served as a Praetorian Prefect trusted advisor of the Visigothic King. the time to settle old political scores with with the Romans to stop Attila. of his capital - diplomacy and charm a force that could confront the greatest For Aetius, however, the alliance with He was forced to seek help and would have to make see their power grow. His plan was to stop Attila, Gaul, and he would strive to prevent Theodoric Meanwhile, the Huns crossed the Rhine in Franks coming in from the north to join them. to make foraging easier, concentrating Assaulting and capturing a city would've given However, when confronted by well defended needed for siege operations, and could offering to spare the inhabitants from a horrific And if the gates remained closed, The Hunnic army captured and sacked Metz in through the countryside. Without organized Roman unopposed. Logistics dictated their movement Attila was obliged to allow his followers on moving quickly and creating such a nuisance His goal was Aurelianum, an important strategic but if that proved not enough to bring he could meet them in battle, defeat them, and The Alan leader Sangiban must've received word he tried to play a duplicitous game, angling There is certainly some debate about sided with Aetius early on, as the two Whatever the case, what Attila failed to that could challenge him. Worse, Aetius got to outskirts of the city and made it a rallying The cunning general cut a deal with the guaranteeing them freedom from imperial Additional Frankish auxiliaries, Saxons, and Burgundians were persuaded to join, as well tribes, also the Olibriones (who were former Roman Once Attila arrived, he knew that favored the Romans. There is some evidence being confronted with Aetius' combined army, on Therefore, the Hunnic king He may have expected the take the city without a had no choice but to give battle, and he wanted He was familiar with the terrain he crossing the Rhine and knew that the flat Mounted contingents and the baggage train made their way cross-country through the Forest Aetius had to delay for a few days, departing from arrived. He predicted that he will catch up roughly an 8-day march. To slow down the moving contingents of riders ahead of the main heavily forested territory, where there While this didn't cause significant his troops that much more difficult, while A large skirmish by Aetius' Franks further slowed down Attila's advance, allowing a sizeable rearguard of Gepids, to allow the main In light of the retreat from Aurelianum and having over the past 10 days, the morale in Attila had the added challenge of keeping the favorable terrain just ahead, is where they As he reached the open Catalaunian He was on the defensive, and his army was tiring. retreat to fight another day. The Hunnic king knowing that an army retreating through hostile Worse, to run away in the face of the enemy was a leader of his stature to retain his authority He would fight the Romans. As June 19th drew to a close, to occupy a ridge overlooking the valley, Further ahead, he encamped on the banks of the and a bridge to the rear, that would provide a went badly. Towards the south-west, 7km of flat which would give the Huns advance Tonight, his troops would Early on June 20th, the morning twilight witnessed as if to signal the start of the battle. Just as Attila suspected, the Roman general arriving around 7 a.m. Aetius wanted to deploy as early in the day as The conglomeration of his allies would disperse in a prolonged war of attrition. that the Romans are on their way, the Crucially, he sent another contingent of cavalry south. Unlike Aetius, Attila wanted to start If he could delay until there were this would allow him to regroup under the cover And just as he suspected, Aetius did not want While the rest of the army continued towards Theodoric's son Thorismund, commander of the As the Visigoths approached up the slope, slowly, showering the enemy with arrows. as the nimble horsemen kept retreating out of for control of the heights, rather on the flat Deploying his horsemen on the ridge was and drag out his deployment. And it seemed It wasn't until 11 a.m. that the Visigoths some FOUR hours after the Roman army Instead of advancing towards the middle of the by the fast moving Huns, Aetius anchored his and his left wing on the Just like Attila, Aetius tried to by forming his line at the start of the steep If the battle went against him, this would allow difficult for the mounted Huns to pursue him. Most of them dismounted to form a shield wall, A small cavalry contingent remained in The mounted Alans were placed in the center-right. cause, Aetius may have wanted to surround the Rather than forming a shield wall like the on horseback similarly to the Huns. From there to the left wing extended the Roman Saxons, and other allied tribes. Like the Two cavalry contingents were placed in Meanwhile, Attila observed With the Roman formation tucked and most of the troops locked in a shield But, even though Aetius' deployment left had never been defeated in battle and he was on it was he who crossed the Rhine to wage war on He took up position in the center On the left wing, Ostrogothic cavalry formed Germanic footmen, the Burgundians, Thuringians, On the right wing, Frankish infantry and Gepid contingent of mixed Germanic infantry in the back. was to serve as a rallying point for the Just as he had planned, Attila Only 5 to 6 hours remained until sunset. Atilla planned to focus his attack on the that the placement of mounted Alans was and he wanted to take advantage of that. He tasked the Franks and Gepids on the pinning down the Romans and Visigoths, The Huns attacked in successive waves, maximizing soldier, it seemed that the barbarians rushing about in disorder. of arrows, but Attila also focused his volleys order to support the mounted attack on the wings. determined infantry and he wanted to soften up Franks, and Gepids began their charge. giving Aetius' men no respite. The physical and cowering behind their shields, The Alans kept responding with barrages of made them much easier targets, and as their Sensing that the concentrated arrow Attila ordered a general charge! wedged formations smashed into the Alans, cutting some of the Alans held on, while others fled, Theodoric and Aetius turned their cavalry whole in the center and stop the breakthrough. Hunnic charge pushed back the enemy, Then came Attila's Germanic infantry, adding clashed with their shields in close combat, On the Roman left, the battle swayed back and slow down the push of the Gepids and the Franks. pressed hard by the combined charge of the Huns, Then, word reached Aetius that King Theodoric was Realizing that this was a the Roman general gave the signal to Thorismund. Until now hidden from view the Visigothic cavalry poured down the slope. faced about to form a line But, without enough time to form a In the center, Aetius managed to rally Attila's attempt to steamroll the Roman center Soon, his left wing fell apart, To avoid encirclement, Attila too disengaged Sporadic skirmishing continued until Upon learning of the death of his father, and continue the fight on the next day. used his charm to dissuade the Visigothic heir him to depart for Toulouse to secure his throne. received payment from the Hunnic king and possibly whose mercenaries he could again use It remains unclear why Aetius didn't at his mercy. But in all likelihood, after inevitable break-up of his temporary alliance, Whatever the case, Attila was able to and head back across the Rhine... cannot be overstated. In defeating the Huns he strategic, and tactical prowess, which made him His former friend Attila didn't succeed but still wielded immense power and was not The following year, he surprised Aetius and captured. Cities across the Po valley was protected by its surrounding marshes. due to supply shortages and a possible outbreak had already acquired considerable plunder and In addition, the Eastern Empire began launching which was another reason to withdraw from Italy. Attila's own power rested on continuous success have weakened his authority. Nevertheless, But in early 453 he took a young wife and after a the following morning. Exact cause of his death and the fight for the throne among his sons, caused the Hunnic realm to Fate was not kind to Aetius either. His ever since he could no longer recruit the Huns his military expertise was less necessary. By 454, and hoped to use his influence over by making sure that the marriage between his But Emperor Valentinian, now in his he was never able to rule in his own right and was One such man was a senator, Petronius Exploiting the hatred that the senator persuaded him to lure the general and his eunuch chamberlain attacked Aetius Still, the instigator Petronius had grander two of Aetius' bodyguards to murder Valentinian. All of the major actors involved in the were dead within a few years As for the Roman empire. It would continue to