[VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING] - Since day one, we set out to of as many people as possible. And with a little help, discovered new places. The right words came and we even learned how to - R-I-A-N. - Life got a little easier. Our photos got a little better. And we got closer to a - All stations ready 3, 2, 1, we have liftoff! - So as we stand on the cusp in AI, will reimagine We will have the chance to of people. We will give businesses to thrive and grow and help questions we have to face. Now, we don't take So while our ambition will always be responsible, AI helpful for everyone. [MUSIC PLAYING] [END PLAYBACK] [CHEERS, APPLAUSE] SUNDAR PICHAI: Good Welcome to Google I/O. [APPLAUSE] It's great to see so many so many developers. And a huge thanks joining from around the to Brazil to our new Bayview It's so great to As you may have heard, AI so we've got lots to talk about. Let's get started. Seven years into our journey we are at an exciting We have an opportunity to for people, for businesses, We have been applying AI to helpful for a while. With generative AI, we With a bold and we are reimagining all our core You will hear more Let me start with a generative AI is helping starting with Gmail. In 2017, we launched short responses you could Next came Smart Compose, which as you type. Smart Compose led to more powered by AI. They've been used in Workspace in the past year alone. And now, with a much more we are taking the next step Let's say you got this email The airline has sent a voucher, is a full refund. You could reply and Just type in the want, an email to ask for and a full draft appears. As you can see, it conveniently from the previous email. And it looks pretty close Maybe you want to In this case, a might increase the chances [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And there you go. I think it's ready to send. Help Me Write will as part of our And just like with you will see it get The next example is Maps. Since the early AI have stitched together so people can explore the At last year's I/O, we which uses AI to representation of a place before you visit. Now, we are expanding to do what Maps does best-- help you get where Google Maps provides of directions every day. That's a lot of trips. Imagine if you could see With Immersive View can, whether you're walking, Let me show you what I mean. Say I'm in New York City and Maps has given me a couple of I like the one on so let's go with that. Looks scenic. I want to get a Click on Immersive and it's an entirely new I can zoom in to get an view of the ride. And as we turn, we get [APPLAUSE] It looks like it's going You can also check Looks like AQI is 43-- pretty good. And if I want to check and see how they might change I can do that. Looks like it's So maybe I want Immersive View for to roll out over the summer by the end of the year, York, Tokyo, and San Francisco. [APPLAUSE] Another product made better We introduced it at I/O in 2015. It was one of our first Breakthroughs in made it possible to search your sunsets, or waterfalls. Of course, we want you to do We also want to help In fact, every month, are edited in Google Photos. AI advancements give us more For example, Magic Eraser, uses AI-powered to remove unwanted distractions. And later this year, of semantic understanding AI, you can do much more called Magic Editor. Let's have a look. Say you are on a to take a photo in You wish you had taken so let's go ahead and The photo feels a bit dark, so And maybe you want to even to make it feel as sunny Looking even had posed so it looks like the water in your hand. No problem-- you [APPLAUSE] There you go. Let's look at one more photo. This is a great photo, you always want your kid And it looks like the balloons So you can go ahead and Magic Editor parts of the bench and captured in the original shot. As a finishing touch, It changes the lighting So the Edit feels consistent. It's truly magical. We are excited to roll out later this year. From Gmail and are just a few examples of that matter. And there is so to deliver the full across the products Today, we have 15 serve more than half a And six of those products sell This gives us so to deliver on our mission, information, and accessible and useful. It's a timeless more relevant with And looking ahead, making is the most profound way we And we are doing this First, by improving and learning and deepening your Second, by boosting so you can express yourself Third, by enabling to build their own and services. And finally, by building and that everyone can We are so excited by Our ability to make AI relies on continuously So I want to take how we are approaching them. Last year, you heard which led to many improvements Today, we are ready to in production, PaLM 2. [APPLAUSE] PaLM 2. This is one of our fundamental infrastructure. It's highly capable at and easy to deploy. We are announcing over 25 by PaLM 2 today. PaLM 2 models deliver excellent across a wide range of sizes. We have affectionately named and unicorn. Gecko's so lightweight work on mobile or great interactive even when offline. PaLM 2 models are stronger to broad training on scientific It's also trained on spanning over 100 languages nuanced results. Combined with powerful PaLM 2 can also help developers Let's look at this example. Let's say you're working and you're debugging code. You can ask it to fix your teammate by adding It first recognizes the code and even explains the And as you can see, it just like you asked. [APPLAUSE] While PaLM 2 is highly shines when fine-tuned on We recently released fine-tuned for It uses AI to better and can help security experts Another example is Med-PaLM 2. In this case, it's fine-tuned This fine-tuning in inaccurate reasoning approaching the performance who answered the same In fact, Med-PaLM 2 was to perform an expert level on questions, and is currently We are also working to add so that it can from medical imaging, like You can imagine that helps radiologists and communicate the results. These are some being used in We can't wait to That's why I'm pleased to available in Preview. And I'll let Thomas share more. [APPLAUSE] PaLM 2 is the latest step to bring AI in responsible It builds on progress made the Brain Team and DeepMind. Looking back at the over the last have contributed to a AlphaGo, transformers, and so on. All this helps set the stage we are at today. We recently brought into a single unit, Using the computational they are focused on building and responsibly. This includes our model, Gemini, which Gemini was created to be multi-modal, in API integrations, and built like memory and planning. While still early, seeing impressive multimodal in prior models. Once fine-tuned and Gemini will be available at just like PaLM 2. As we invest in more we are also deeply investing This includes having the tools generated content Two important approaches are Watermarking embeds information in ways that are maintained even Moving forward, we are to include watermarking from the start. If you look at a it's impressive So you can imagine is going to be in the future. Metadata allows associate additional giving you more you encounter an image. We'll ensure every one of has that metadata. James will talk about to AI later. As models get better one of the most is making them available for That's the opportunity we for conversational AI. We are rapidly evolving Bard. It now supports a wide range and it's gotten much smarter And as of today, it is now To share more about let me turn it over to Sissie. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] SISSIE HSIAO: Thanks, Sundar. Large language models imagination, about the future of computing. We launched Bard as a on a lightweight, to get feedback and iterate. And since then, the team to make rapid improvements With PaLM 2, Bard's math, made a huge leap forward, to help developers Bard can now collaborate on debugging, and Bard has already learned more including C++, Go, and even Google And we're thrilled to see become one of the that people are doing with Bard. So let's take a I've recently been and for fun, I can program a move in Python. How would I use Python to move in chess? OK. Here, Bard created a script move in Python. And notice how it also making it easy to read. We've also heard great feedback Bard provides code citations. And starting next week, you'll We're making code citations If Bard brings in just click this annotation, and and link to the source. Now, Bard can also help Could you tell me what Now, this is a super of what it's doing and Let's see if we can make How would I improve this code? Let's see. There's a list comprehension, and using a generator . Those are some Now, could you join them into Now, Bard is rebuilding the OK, great. How easy was that? And in a couple clicks, I can Developers love the ability into their workflow, So coming soon, we're to export and run code starting with Python. [APPLAUSE] We've also heard that so starting today, [APPLAUSE] You can activate or let it follow And speaking of people often ask drafting emails and documents. So today, we are launching making it easy to move into Gmail and Docs. [APPLAUSE] So we're excited by how quickly are improving, but we're We want to bring more to fuel your curiosity And so I'm excited to announce [APPLAUSE] As you collaborate be able to tap into and extensions with partners to possible. And of course, we'll in a secure and private in control. We're starting with that people love It's incredible what Bard but images are such of how we learn and express. So in the next few weeks, both in its responses So if you ask, what are some Bard's going to use Google to find the most Here we go. The French Quarter, These images are really of what I'm exploring. We'll also make it easy for giving you even more ways People love Google Lens, we're bringing the [APPLAUSE] So if you're looking to have you might upload Bard to write a funny Lens detects that of a goofy German shepherd and then Bard uses that to If you ask me, I think Now, Let's do another one. Imagine I'm 18 and I I won't date myself but it's still an So I'm thinking about sure what I want to focus on. I'm into video games. And what kinds of programs OK, this is a Hmm, animation looks Now, I could ask, with animation programs OK, great. That's a good list of schools. Now, to see where these show these on a map. Here, Bard's going to use where the schools are. [APPLAUSE] This is super helpful, that there's plenty of Now, let's start Show these options as a table. Nice-- structured and organized. But there's more I want to know. Add a column showing public or private schools. [APPLAUSE] Perfect. This is a great And now, let's move so my family can jump in later [APPLAUSE] You can see how easy it will and quickly have something to apps like Docs or Sheets OK, now that's a taste of meets some of Google's apps. But that's just the start. Bard will be able to tap from across the from incredible Indeed, Khan Academy, So here's a look at one coming With Adobe Firefly, completely new images from Now, let's say I'm party for my seven-year-old, I want a fun image to send Make an image of a unicorn Now, Bard is to bring what I [APPLAUSE] How amazing is that? This will unlock that you can take your And we are so excited Bard continues to new abilities, and we want to try it out and share So today, we are and opening up Bard to over [APPLAUSE] --with more coming soon. And in addition to becoming Bard is also becoming Beyond English, be able to talk to Bard Adding languages responsibly to get things like quality And we're pleased to share 40 languages soon. [APPLAUSE] It's amazing to see the more advanced models, so and the ability for to collaborate with Bard. And when we're ready to move I'm really excited about So that's where we're going from Google and amazing to help you do and create through a fluid capable, large language models. There's so much to And now, to hear more about enabling next-generation in Workspace, I'll [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] APARNA PAPPU: From Workspace was built to allow with other people. Now, you can collaborate AI can act as a coach, a source of a productivity booster across Our first steps with were via the Help Me Write which launched to We've been truly blown away by these features are being sales pitches, project and so much more. Since then, we've these helpful features Let me show you a few examples. One of our most is the trusty job description. Every business, big or A good job description can Here's how Docs Say you run a fashion to hire a textile designer. To get started, you enter Senior-level job description Docs will take that prompt, and let's see what I got back. Not bad. With just seven words, with a good starting nicely for me. Now, you can take for the kind of experience, that this role needs, saving Next-- [APPLAUSE] --let me show you how you can Imagine you run a and need to keep track of things about the dogs, like what for how long, et cetera. Sheets can help In a new sheet, like &quot;client and pet roster with rates&quot; and hit Create. Sheets sends this input that we've been training with use cases. Look at that. The model-- [APPLAUSE] The model figured out The generated table has client info, notes, et cetera. This is a good start Sheets made it started so you can go back Speaking of getting you love, let's talk People use Slides for whether at work or in For example, you get to collect anecdotes, for your parents' 50th wedding Everyone does their bit. But maybe this deck Let's pick one of the slides as a prompt for &quot;Mom loves her pizza, while dad's favorite treat Let's hit Create and see Behind the scenes, that quote to image models. And we know it's unlikely be happy with just one option, to eight images so that to choose and refine. Whoa, I have some oddly images. Now, this style is a So I'm going to ask Let's change the and give it a whirl. Just as weird, but You can have endless with no limits on Starting next month, will be able to try this and across Workspace. And later this year, be generally available Workspace users via Duet AI for Workspace. [APPLAUSE] Stepping back a bit, I showed of how Workspace can help a few words as prompts. Prompts are a powerful way The right prompt can unlock However, it can be to even know where to start. Well, what if we could What if AI could proactively Even better, what if these contextual and changed based I am super excited to show This is how we see the with AI coming to life. Let's switch to a live what I mean Tony's here Hey, Tony. TONY: Hey, Aparna. APARNA PAPPU: So-- [APPLAUSE] My niece Mira and I are together for summer camp. We've already written But now, we're stuck. Let's get some help. As you can see, we launch a fondly calls Sidekick. Sidekick instantly reads and offers some really along with an open If we look closely, we can like what happened to What are common Let's try the seashell what it comes back with. Now, what's happening is that we've provided as context to the model, along And let's see what we got back. The golden seashell was that lives in the cove. This is a good start. Let's insert these continue our little project. Now, one of the interesting is that it's actually easier or perhaps use that to go in a different direction. And this is exactly I see a new suggestion on Let's see what this does. The story has a village, and other details. And instead of having the model picks up these and generates images. These are some cool bet my niece will love these. Let's insert them Thank you, Tony. [APPLAUSE] I'm going to walk you and this will help you see why collaboration is such to productivity and creativity. Say you're writing about an upcoming potluck. Now, as you can see, this conversation is about. Last year, everyone Who doesn't love hummus? But this year, you want Let's see what people Well, somewhere in this thread collected that information. You can get some help a note about the main And let's see what we get back. Let's go. Awesome. It found the right Sheet and In section, giving that this is not made up. It looks good. You can insert it Let's end with an example of Say you're about to give and you've been so that you forgot to The presentation is in an hour. Uh-oh. No need to panic. Look at what one of Create speaker notes Let's see what happened. [APPLAUSE] What happened behind is that the presentation was sent to the model to And once you've can hit Insert to convey what you intended. So you can now deliver without worrying As you can see, a ton of fun playing with this. We can see the true potential And we'll be bringing to Duet AI for Workspace. With that, I'll hand [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Aparna. It's exciting to see coming to Google Workspace. As AI continues to we have focused on giving And starting today, we to preview some across Workspace It's called Labs. I say &quot;new,&quot; but Google has a and we've made it available You can check it out Next up, we're going Search has been our founding and we always approached above everything else. To give you a sense generative AI in to invite Cathy onto the stage. Cathy? [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING] CATHY EDWARDS: Thanks, Sundar. I've been working in And what inspires me so to be an unsolved problem. And that's why I'm just so of bringing generative Let's give it a whirl. So let's start with better for a family and a dog, Bryce Now, although this is the you probably wouldn't You'd break it down sift through the information, together yourself. Now, Search does the What you see here So let me first give You'll notice the new, so you can get even more There's an AI-powered snapshot the lay of the land on a topic. And so here you can see kid-friendly, only options for your furry friend. Then if you want to are links included You can also click And you'll see how the so you can check and really explore the This new experience builds on systems that we've been And Search will continue to be makes the web so special, from publishers to and even people like you and me. So you can check from experts, like the and learn from authentic, like the Mom Trotter Blog, AI can provide insights, we know the input of other people. And a thriving web These new generative AI-- thank you. [APPLAUSE] These new generative will make such smarter And as you've seen, this is when you need to make with multiple angles to explore. You know, those times when even So for example, let's for a good bike for a This can be a big purchase, so In the AI-powered see important considerations for taking on those for a comfortable ride. Right below that, that fit the bill, reviews, helpful descriptions, This is built on the world's most set of constantly changing reviews, and with over 35 billion listings. In fact, there are 1.8 billion graph every hour. So you can shop with confidence knowing that you'll get And for commercial we also know that helpful to connect people and help businesses They're here, clearly labeled. And we're exploring to integrate them as we roll And now that you've you might want to explore more. So right under the see the option to ask or select a suggested next step. Tapping any of these into our brand-new [APPLAUSE] In this case, maybe you want to so you look for one in red. And without having to Google Search understands and that you're for e-bikes in red that would with hills. And even when you're in it's an integrated experience. So you can simply scroll to Now, maybe this e-bike seems to With just a click, a variety of retailers and some that offer free You'll also see current and can seamlessly go check out, and to what really matters-- getting ready to ride. These new generative also unlock a whole new category It could help you create a club, craft the perfect your new wheels, or even test signals. These are things you to ask Search for before. Shopping is just one example Let's walk through another What do you say? [APPLAUSE] Yeah. So special shout-out to my who is obsessed with whales. I wanted to teach So let me go to the why do whales like to sing? And so here, I see a snapshot and gets me to key things I quickly that, oh, they sing like to communicate with other And I can click See More Now, if I was actually with in front of thousands be checking out some of They look pretty good. Now, I'm thinking of seeing one up close. So let me ask, can I see And so the LLMs right now to generate my insights and perspectives It looks like, in I can see humpbacks That's cool. I'll have to plan to And again, I can see from across the web. And if I want to of my previous question, I Now, she's got a so I can follow up with &quot;plush Again, the LLMs are organizing And this process will These seem like I think she'll really She's into orcas as well. Phew. Live demos are always I'm really glad that [APPLAUSE] What you've seen today at how we're experimenting And we're excited to keep through our Search Labs program. This new Search generative will be available in Labs, along And they'll be rolling If you're in the US, you by tapping the Labs icon in the app or Chrome desktop. This new experience really of a new chapter. And you can think of supercharged. Search has been at the core for 25 years. And as we build for so excited for you to you never dreamed it could. Here's an early look at what's [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [YUNG CXREAL &amp; BABY - Yes, yes, yes. - You got this. Let's go. - Is a hot dog sandwich? And the answer is-- - Yes. - No. - Yes! [END PLAYBACK] [APPLAUSE] SUNDAR PICHAI: Is a I think it's more like a around it. Comes from the expert Thanks, Cathy. It's so exciting evolving Search, to building it with you all. So far today, we can help unlock creativity, As you can see, AI is not It's also a big platform shift. Every business and thinking about how to That's why we are focused on for others to innovate with AI. That means providing the infrastructure, including and expanding access to Google's have been rigorously We are also working to so customers can train, their own models with security, and privacy. To tell you more about how Cloud, please welcome Thomas. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] THOMAS KURIAN: All you've heard about today are So whether you're an or a full-scale enterprise, to transform the way you work. There are already using our generative AI platform to synthesize and to automate processes, and experiences. And yes, each and every There are three can help you take advantage in front of you. First, you can build using our AI platform Vertex AI. With Vertex, you can for chat, text, and image. You just select the create prompts to and you can even fine-tune on your own dedicated To help you retrieve fresh from your company's databases, your website, and we offer Enterprise Search. Our AI platform is so because it guarantees With both Vertex and you have sole and the costs of using In other words, your data is You can also choose the best across many sizes that have latency, and quality. Many leading companies are using to build super and we've all been blown Let's hear from a few of them. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING] - The unique thing is the expansive offering. - The Google us to lean in, to iterate, the courage to fail - But also, Google's And so there's a lot from the engineering team. - Now, with generative AI, conversations with - We have been really enjoying technology and making to our entire community. - Getting early opens a lot of more efficient and productive for our customers. - The act of making software to everyone. Now, you can talk to the AI make me a workout program. And with one click, we can and you have an app that you - We have an extraordinarily in the pipeline. It's called Magic Video, and it and images, and with turn that into a cohesive story. It is powered by and it truly empowers able to create a video - Folks come to a Wendy's, they use some of our acronyms. The junior bacon come in and-- give me a JBC. We need to understand And we say, I can help make every single time. - Generative AI in all the business processes - The partnership with to leverage technology to truly experience. - There is no limitations. - There's no other We're just living in the future. [END PLAYBACK] [APPLAUSE] We're also doing this with We provide Character most performant and for training and By combining its with those of Google can create their own deeply and interact with them. We're also partnering to integrate Google Cloud's with their data Cloud in Assistant. In fact, we're working with including consultancies, consumer internet companies, and experiences with In addition to PaLM 2, three new models in Vertex, image generation, editing, inputs, Codey for code which you can train to help you build and Chirp, our universal brings speech-to-text accuracy We're also introducing learning from human You can fine-tune by incorporating human the model's results. You can also fine-tune or industry-specific data, as we so they become All of these features and I encourage each and [APPLAUSE] The second way we're of this opportunity Duet AI for Google Cloud. Earlier, Aparna told you about and how it is an to help people get things done. Well, the same thing for Google Cloud, which programmer. Duet uses generative AI to wherever you need it, within or directly within chat. It can provide you offer suggestions tuned and generate entire It can even assist you with code Hen will show you more The third way we're helping is by building all on our AI-optimized This infrastructure makes up to 80% faster and compared to any Look-- when you nearly [APPLAUSE] When you nearly for less than half the Today, we're excited to to this infrastructure family, based on Nvidia's We provide the widest for leading AI companies, to build their future And yes, there's so Next, Josh is here to we're making it for every developer to [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] JOSH WOODWARD: Thanks, Thomas. Our work is enabling empowering developers. PaLM 2, our most that Sundar talked about, Since March, we've been running API, and it's been amazing to used it in their applications. Like Chaptr, who are you can choose forever changing story time. Or Game On Technology, makes chat apps for sports to connect with their audiences. And there's also Wendy's. They're using the PaLM place that correct order cheeseburger they talked about But I'm most excited we've gotten from the Developers want choice when and we're working with leading like LangChain, Chroma, and many We've also integrated it like Firebase and Colab. [APPLAUSE] You can hear a lot more about keynote and sign up today. Now, to show you just how I want to share one concept put together over The idea is called and we think of it as that helps you learn faster. Like a real notebook, your Tailwind. How it works is you can simply Drive and it effectively creates model that has expertise in the We've been developing like Stephen Johnson, and like Arizona State and the where I went to school. You want to see how it works? [APPLAUSE] Let's do a live demo. Now, imagine I'm a student history class. I'll open up Tailwind, see, in Google Drive, all my and readings. I can insert them. And what will happen when can see my different notes Here they are, in the middle. And it instantly on the right to You can see it's pulling out key in the materials Now, I can come over change it to go across all something like &quot;create And what's going to is it'll automatically with all the different relating to Grace Hopper, pioneer. Look at this-- FLOW-MATIC, all created based on my notes. Now, let's try one more. I'm going to try something else on Dynabook.&quot; So the Dynabook, this was Again, Tailwind all the different things. You can see how There it is. And what's interesting me think through the concept. So it's giving me It was a visionary product. It was a missed opportunity. But my favorite part You can see the citations here. When I hover over, here's Here's something from an It's all right here, [APPLAUSE] Now, project Tailwind is but we've had so much fun and we realized, it's It's helpful for anyone from many different sources writers researching an going through earnings preparing for a case. Imagine collaborating grounded in what you've We want to make it if you want to see it. [APPLAUSE] There's a lot more And we can't wait to see what Generative AI is means to develop new products. At Google, we offer the with powerful models, and the APIs and tools your own applications. Building bold AI requires So let me hand it over Thanks. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] JAMES MANYIKA: Hi, everyone. I'm James. In addition to research, I called technology and society. Growing up in have imagined all the amazing that have been presented And while I feel it's the incredible progress in that it has for everywhere, we must that it's an emerging technology and there's still Earlier, you heard Sundar must be both bold While there's a natural we believe it's but in fact critical to embrace The only way to be truly is to be responsible Our field-defining research make bold advances in including medical breakthroughs. Take, for example, Google which can accurately shapes of 200 million proteins. That's nearly all the catalog AlphaFold gave us the equivalent of progress in just weeks. [APPLAUSE] So far, more than one million have used AlphaFold's including Fang Zheng's Institute of MIT and Harvard. [APPLAUSE] Yeah. In fact, in March this year, announced that to develop a novel molecular drugs to help improve the for diseases like cancer. [APPLAUSE] And while it's such bold and beneficial AI also has the potential challenges, like unfair bias, as it becomes more advanced That's why we believe a responsible approach to AI. This work centers that we first These principles guide and they help us assess They prompt questions like, or could it lead One area that is top of mind Generative AI makes to create new raises additional questions That's why we're developing to evaluate online information. For example, have you come or one shared by a friend, like this one of and found yourself I have, and I'm sure In the coming months, we're to evaluate images. First, with our About this you'll be able to see important and where similar images where else the image including news, fact all this providing you to determine if it's reliable. Later this year, you'll if you search for an image or or when you're on As we begin to roll out the like Sundar mentioned, that every one of our has metadata and markup to give you context outside of our platforms. Not only that-- will be able to add so we'll be able to in Google Search marking [APPLAUSE] As we apply our AI start to see potential to being bold and responsible. Here's an example. Universal Translator is an service that helps experts while also matching Let me show you how it course created in partnership What many college is that knowing and then following through is actually a hallmark of [SPEAKING SPANISH] [APPLAUSE] Yeah, it's cool. We use next-generation to translate what the models to replicate and then match the Then we bring it all together. This is an enormous step forward And we are seeing promising rates. But there's an You can see how this can but some of the same could be misused by bad So we built this to help prevent misuse and to authorized partners. [APPLAUSE] And as Sundar be integrating new innovations generative models to also of misinformation. Our AI principles also help For instance, years ago, we to decide not to make a recognition API We felt there weren't Another way we live up is with innovations as they emerge, like reducing that may be generated We are one of the first in the automated adversarial model technology. We do this for queries like inaccurate outputs, like and make them better, We're doing this at a scale at Google, significantly and coverage of safety experts to focus on And we're sharing these For example, our perspective to help publishers is now being used in Academic researchers have to create an industry And today, all significant including those from incorporate this standard generated by their own models. Building AI-- building-- sorry. [APPLAUSE] Building AI responsibly must be researchers, social scientists, and everyday people, as well Everyone benefits from a and in the future. That's why we're and we'll be working with to give publishers choice and It's such an exciting time. There's so much we're and so much we must We look forward to And now, I'll hand who will speak to you about all bringing to Android. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] SAMEER SAMAT: Hi, everyone. It's great to be back at Google our bold and responsible can unlock people's But how can all this as many people as possible? At Google, our computing have been integral From the beginning believed that an open OS and bring smartphones And as we all add more devices TVs, cars, and creates the freedom to work best for you. With more than 3 we've now seen the benefits of at scale. For example, this used AI models to protect billion suspected spam [APPLAUSE] We can all agree There are so many AI can just make things better. Today, we'll talk Android is bringing that benefit First, continuing to connect you of devices, where everything And second, using AI love about Android even better, and expression. Let's begin by talking about starting with two of tablets and watches. Over the last two years, we've on large screens, including We introduced a new that makes it so much of all that extra screen real between apps. We've made huge investments to Apps, including Gmail, And we're working such as Minecraft, Plus to build beautiful on larger screens. People are falling in and there are more great Stay tuned for our where you just might see some we're building for It's really exciting [APPLAUSE] It's really exciting to see as well. Wear OS is now the fastest just two years after launching A top ask from fans has been apps on the watch. I'm excited to is bringing their first-ever I'm really enjoying using I can start a new conversation, and even take calls. I can't wait for you to try it. Our partnership on Wear OS and I'm excited collaboration on immersive XR. We'll share more Now, we all know that to all these devices need to It's got to be simple. That's why we built lets you easily connect and while we have Nearby files between your phone, OS computer, and cast and audio to your with support from It's great to have all But if you're can be hard to keep Just ask my family. I misplace my earbuds at which is why we're launching Device experience to support in your life, including It's powered by a network of around the world. So if you leave your other nearby Android devices And for other important like your bicycle or suitcase, will have tracker tags Find My device network as well. [APPLAUSE] Now, we took some time because protecting your From the start, we in a privacy-preserving way, is encrypted. No one else can tell where not even Google. This is also why we're alerts. Your phone will tell you tag is moving with you [APPLAUSE] It's important these warnings but on other types That's why, last week, we standard with Apple, outlining work across all smartphones. [APPLAUSE] Both the new Find My Device alerts are coming Now, we've talked a lot but Android is also After all, phones to communicate with When you're texting you shouldn't have to worry using the same type of phone. Sending high-quality-- [APPLAUSE] Sending high-quality getting typing notifications, should all just work. That's why we've worked with our and MMS technology called RCS that makes And there are now over 800 on our way to over a billion We hope every mobile operating and adopts RCS-- [APPLAUSE] --so we can all hang out no matter what Whether it's connecting or connecting all Android's complete Another thing people is the ability to and express themselves. Here's Dave to taking this to the next [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] DAVE BURKE: All right. Thanks, Sameer, and So here's the thing. People want to in the products from the clothes they to their surroundings at home. We believe the same should Your phone should feel like And that's why been at the core of This year, we're combining with Google's advances so your phone can feel So let me show you To start, messages can be so much more and, playful with Magic Compose. It's a new feature coming by generative AI that extra spark of personality So just type your normally would, and then Magic Compose will do the off more positivity, more or if you want, in the style To try or not to try this Now, we also have coming to the OS layer. At Google I/O two years ago, It's a design system that with dynamic color science for We're continuing to expand with all-new customization to your lockscreen. So now, I can add my to the lockscreen clock so And what's more, with the shortcuts, I can instantly frequent activities. Of course, what really makes screen yours is the wallpaper. And it's the first set when we get a new phone. Now, emojis are such of expressing yourself. So we thought, wouldn't to your wallpaper? So with emoji your favorite pick the perfect pattern, and to bring them all together. So let's take a look. And I'm not going I'm going to use a phone. So let's see. I'm going to go into and I'm going to tap on And I'm feeling it a zany mood with all you So I'm going to pick And let's see, who This one looks pretty cool, And obviously that one. And somebody said there was So let's go find a duck. Hello, duck. Where is the duck? Can anyone see a duck? Where has the duck gone? There is the duck. All right, there he is. I got some ducks. OK, cool. And then pattern-wise, we've got you can pick. I'm going to pick mosaic. That's my favorite. I'm going to play with the zoom. Let's see. We'll get this just right. OK, I've got enough OK, cool. And then colors. Let's see. Ooh, that pops. Let's go with a more muted one. Or maybe that one. That one looks good. That looks good. All right, select that, set the Looks pretty cool, huh? [APPLAUSE] And the little emojis, they which I find-- [LAUGHTER] I find this And how much time have I got? OK, I'll move on. OK, so of course, to use a favorite photo And so with a new cinematic you can create a stunning 3D and then use it So let's take a look. So this time, I'm going And I really like this let me select that. And you'll notice there's So if I tap that, I get a new So let me activate that. And then wait for it-- boom. Now, under the hood, we're neural network to a generative adversarial as the background moves. The result is a beautiful, So then let me and then I'm going And check out the parallax It literally jumps So both cinematic wallpapers are coming first to So let's say you don't have the or you just want to have fun With our new generative you choose what we create a beautiful So let's take a look. So this time, I'm Create a Wallpaper with AI. And I like classic art, Now, you'll notice, we use structured prompts So for example, I can pick-- what am I going to do? City by the bay in a post I type-- tap Create Wallpaper. Nice. Now, behind the Google's text-to-image diffusion new and original wallpapers. And I can swipe through and that it's created. And some of these look [APPLAUSE] So let me pick this one. I like this one. So select that, and then return home. Cool. So now, out of the billions of no other phone will And thanks to Material You, you palette is automatically the wallpaper I created. Generative AI wallpapers [APPLAUSE] So from a thriving to AI-powered expression, going on right now in Android. OK, Rick is up next to show you coming to life in the Thank you. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] RICK OSTERLOH: The pace of AI has been astounding. As you heard Sundar new advances are from creativity and productivity Now, let's talk about for Pixel, which the way in AI-driven hardware Now, from the conceived as an AI-first bringing together all across the company and putting you can hold in your hand. Other phones have AI features, with AI at the center. And I mean that literally. The Google Tensor designed to put Google's to work in our Pixel devices. By combining Tensor's with Google's AI delivers truly personal AI. Your device adapts to your and it anticipates save time and get more done. This personal AI enables all that Pixel is known available on any like Pixel Call Assist, hold times, navigate ignore the calls you don't want, on the calls you do want. Personally, I also enable experiences. On-device machine learning for you, transcribes and understands how And you're protected with Pixel that keep you safe online And of course, [APPLAUSE] It understands faces, to better depict you care about so your photos We're also constantly Pixel camera more inclusive with features like Real [APPLAUSE] Pixel experiences unique in mobile computing. And that's because Pixel is end-to-end by Google, and Google Tensor, Android, and AI. [APPLAUSE] With this combination of Pixel lets you experience all features you saw For example, the new Photos that Sundar be available for early access this year, opening up a whole with your photos. And Dave just showed you to how you can express yourself And across Search, new features powered by can Spark your imagination, and help you find better answers from your Pixel device. We have so many more exciting and we can't wait to show you Now, it's probably no keeps getting more our Pixel portfolio keeps Last year's Pixel devices are yet with both users and analysts. [APPLAUSE] Our Pixel phones won multiple [APPLAUSE] Yes, thank you. And in the premium Google is the fastest [APPLAUSE] One of our more popular which delivers incredible-- [APPLAUSE] Thank you. I'm glad you like it. It delivers incredible in a very affordable device. And to continue let me show you the newest [APPLAUSE] Today, we're everything you love with the gorgeous new Pixel 7a. Like all Pixel 7 series is powered by our flagship and it's paired with 8 ensures Pixel 7a delivers and intelligence. And you're going The 7a takes the crown from in its class, with the to our a-series camera main camera sensor. [APPLAUSE] Now, here's the best part. Pixel 7a is available It's an unbeatable combination and photography, all And you can check out the on the Google Store, including Now, next up, we're how we're continuing to into new form factors. Yeah. [APPLAUSE] Like foldables and tablets. You can see them right there. It's a complete ecosystem of by Google. Here's Rose to show you what do for you. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] ROSE YAO: OK, let's been a little bit frustrating. It's always hard to and they haven't really A lot of times, they are and that one moment you need We believe tablets, and still have a lot of potential. So we set out to build making big investments across to reimagine how large a more helpful experience. Pixel Tablet is the only and designed specifically and in the place they the home. We designed the Pixel helpful Pixel experiences. And that starts with a beautiful, 11-inch, with crisp audio from the four aluminum enclosure with that feels great in the hand The world's best Android powered by Google Tensor G2 and cutting-edge personal AI. For example, with Tensor G2, specifically for video calling. Tablets are fantastic and with Pixel Tablet, you and looking your best. The large screen makes Pixel for editing photos, with Eraser and Photo Unblur. Now, typing on a tablet With Pixel Speech have the best voice voice typing nearly three And as Sameer mentioned, we've to create great app experiences more than 50 of our own apps. With Pixel Tablet, you're with great tablet apps. But we saw an opportunity helpful in the home. So we engineered a speaker dock. [APPLAUSE] It gives the tablet you never have to worry Pixel Tablet is always When it's docked, turns Pixel Tablet into a a powerful smart a voice-activated helper, and It feels like a smart display, with the ultra-fast I can quickly unlock the device my favorite Android apps. So I can quickly find the or discover a new or find something to watch with app. Your media is going great, with room-filling sound Pixel Tablet is also to control your starts with a new It looks great on Pixel over 80,000 supported smart of your Matter-enabled devices. We also-- [APPLAUSE] We also made it really easy to directly from Hub mode. With the new home can quickly adjust the or see if a package Or if you're lazy like me, Now, we know that so a tablet for the home needs Pixel Tablet makes switching So you get your own apps while maintaining your privacy. [APPLAUSE] And my favorite part-- it is so easy to move Pixel Tablet is the first So with a few taps-- [APPLAUSE] --I can easily cast some from my phone to the tablet. And then I can just take and keep listening or We designed a new type that solves the pain It has a built-in stand that and is sturdy at all angles use your tablet in bed, or in the kitchen. The case easily docks. You never have to And it's just another example experience even more helpful. [APPLAUSE] The new Pixel Tablet It is available for and shifts next month [APPLAUSE] And the best part-- every Pixel Tablet comes bundled dock for free. [APPLAUSE] It is truly the best tablet To give you an idea just how we asked TV personality Michelle Let's see how that went. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING] - When Google asked me to I was a little apprehensive, I don't know how things But I'm a woman in STEM now. Some days, I could let alone a charger So when the Google about a tablet that docks, I was I am, on average-- two to five meetings a day. Today, I got stuck on all these all. The last time I was around got caught in my belly two weeks later. Look, it's a bird! So this is what I loved Six shows just popped up And they were like, hey, girl. That would have made it My husband is actually so I have to rely on him to But now-- I love this but there's a boom mic there. Look, it's right here. You see this one? Get this mic. You see that? Magic Eraser. Take a circle or brush-- I'm going to do both. Boom! How cute is that? And so I hope not only with me reviewing this, give me one, because, I mean. You're getting tired, right? - I'm not. - You're not? OK, because I am. [END PLAYBACK] [APPLAUSE] RICK OSTERLOH: That's a Now, tablets aren't the we want to show you today. It's been really exciting over the past few years. Android's driven in this new form factor, and we We've heard from our users have a versatile it great to use both It should also have a that truly takes advantage of experience that's fluid and Creating a foldable like the envelope with and that means an ultra Now, to get there, closely with our to create a new standard Introducing Google Pixel Fold. [APPLAUSE] It combines Tensor G2, and AI for an unfolds into an It's the only foldable to adapt to how with a familiar front when it's folded, and it's our thinnest phone yet, on the market. Now, to get there, we had to into nearly half meant completely like the telephoto lens, and So it can fold up and it and retain that familiar when it's in your hand. The Pixel fold has three of a normal phone. You unfold it, and you're 7.6-inch display that opens flat friction hinge. So you're getting the It's a powerful smartphone and an immersive tablet And like every phone we make, We've extensively to be the most durable Corning Gorilla Glass from exterior scratches, while safeguards against the weather. And as you'd expect Pixel Fold gives you to take stunning photos and You put the camera in Tabletop and you can get closer with And use the best camera on The unique combination of form hardware, and personal make it the best [APPLAUSE] Now, there are so that feel even more natural One is the dual screen Your Pixel Fold-- [APPLAUSE] Your Pixel Fold can both displays-- to to you and the person So it's really easy to [APPLAUSE] And powering all of this Pixel Fold has all the personal a top-of-the-line Pixel device, and call assist. Plus, it's got great performance and entertainment. And the entire foldable So let's get Dave back out improvements to to experience on a Pixel Fold. DAVE BURKE: All right. Thanks, Rick. From new form factors to biometrics and Android has always been at the breakthroughs. And recently, we've been and improvements for like tablets and foldables. So who thinks we should on the new Pixel Fold? [APPLAUSE] All right, let's do it. It starts the second with this stunning And the hinge sensor is And it's a subtle thing, feel so dynamic and alive. Yeah, I just love that. So let's go back to And I'm looking at Google Photos Now, the scenery is So I want to show you I just open my phone, expands into this We call this feature obsessed over every takes for apps to seamlessly to the larger screen. Now, all work and no play so I'm going to message back out on the mountain. I can just swipe to bring up drag Google Messages to the mode like so. To inspire my buddy, I'm So I can just drag and right into my message, like so. And thanks to the new Jetpack this is now supported in from Workspace to WhatsApp. You'll notice we've made throughout the OS to take So for example, here's for faster typing. And if I pull down notice the new two-panel shade and my quick settings Now, Pixel Fold is great And if I swipe up notice that we now keep the And for example, I was and Slides earlier to And I think I'm following but I'm not quite done yet. I've been warned, by the way. Anyway, I could even to suit the content And working this way, it's like in the palm of my hand, allowing which reminds me, send Rick a quick note. So I'll open Gmail. And I don't have a going to use the new So let's try this out. [APPLAUSE] Don't cheer yet. Let's see if it works. OK, Rick-- Rick-- congrats on-- what are Pixel Fold's launch. Amazing with Android. And then I probably should say-- not Andrew, Android. Dave. It's hard to type with all All right. Now, by the power of allow me to elaborate. Dear Rick, congratulations of Pixel Fold. I'm really impressed and how well it The foldable screen and I can't wait to see [APPLAUSE] That's productivity. But there's more. The Pixel Fold is also an and YouTube is just a really So let's start watching this Now, look what the device at right angles. YouTube enters what so that the video and then we're working on to the bottom half for lean-back experience. And the video just through these transitions One last thing. We're adding support from within an app. And Pixel Fold's camera is a Now, by the way, say She's the real star of the show. So Pixel Fold has this new So I'm going to tap this. And it means I can to the outside screen. So let me turn OK, so why is this interesting? Well, it means that beside the rear camera system. And that means I can get a amazing selfie with the Speaking of which-- and you smile, everybody! You look awesome. Woo-hoo! I always wanted to do that So what you're seeing of several years of work, spanning the Android OS on the Play Store. All this work comes alive Tablet and Pixel Fold. Check out this video. Thank you. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING] [END PLAYBACK] [APPLAUSE] RICK OSTERLOH: Whoo! That demo was awesome. Across Pixel and Android, with large-screen devices. And we can't wait to get into your hands. And you're not going to You can pre-order Pixel and it'll ship next month. And you'll get the most out foldable by pairing So when you pre-order you'll also get a [APPLAUSE] The Pixel family into the most dynamic portfolio in the market today. From a broad selection to watches, earbuds, and there are more ways the helpfulness Pixel is known need it. Now, let me pass Thanks, everyone. [MUSIC PLAYING] [APPLAUSE] SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Rick. I'm really enjoying the new foldable phone, and I'm proud driving across the ecosystem. As we wrap up, I've on the big technology shifts The shift with AI is And that's why it's make AI helpful for everyone. We are approaching it boldly, because as we look ahead, of information, combined of generative AI, can transform yet again. And we are doing in a way that underscores feel to get it right. No one company Our developer community the enormous We look forward to working So on behalf of all thank you and enjoy [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]