(gentle piano music) - [Narrator] Far out in space, in the center of a (gentle piano music) Extreme heat. High velocities. Atoms tear, and space literally buckles. (intense music) Photons fly out across the universe, energized to the limits found in nature. Billions of years later, they enter the detectors of spacecraft stationed above our atmosphere. Our ability to record of high-energy astronomy. And a new age of insights into (gentle piano music) What can we learn by of a black hole? (intense music) There have been times when our has reached a standstill. When our grasp of the the nature of matter and energy, do not fully square with what we observe. In those times, opposing world So it was in the spring of 1920, when astronomers debated The scene was the National in Washington, DC. On one side was the known for his groundbreaking and the position of the sun within it. Shapley described the galaxy As large as his measurements it might indeed be all there is. That included mysterious fuzzy shapes known as spiral nebulae. He argued they were merely gas clouds. On the opposing side, Heber Curtis argued that some nebulae were That idea was not new. 165 years earlier, the German described the nebulae as &quot;It is noted only in &quot;that whitish clouds are seen, &quot;several patches of similar &quot;here and there throughout the aether, &quot;and if the telescope is &quot;it confronts us with It took a new generation for astronomers to finally to those mysterious objects. Within a few years after the Great Debate, Edwin Hubble reported data lay far beyond the Milky Way. That led to our current understanding of a universe billions filled with galaxies, (upbeat electronic music) In the years since, essential details about have stubbornly resisted our inquiries. The deeper we dug into the the more obscure they seemed to become. One of the deepest mysteries (upbeat instrumental music) That was a time when nations and testing their nuclear arsenals. In 1963, the United States, Soviet Union, and the United Kingdom signed which prohibited To verify compliance, the six pairs of satellites known as Vela, from the Spanish verb to They were designed to of nuclear explosions, called gamma rays. Gamma rays are an ultra high-energy form of electromagnetic radiation, a term used to describe that travel out from an energy source. The lowest-energy form, radio, has a wavelength of up to 300 meters. Though we can't see them, for example, in flashes of lightning. (thunder booms) Our eyes are tuned to visible wavelengths or 400 billionths of a meter. Carrying even more has a wavelength as X-rays, which penetrate can be as short as one Gamma rays carry so much energy that their wavelength can That's below the diameter of an atom. (explosion booms) They are known as ionizing radiation, which means heavy exposure from atoms in your body and kill you. (birds chirping) (eerie space music) Fortunately, gamma rays from space do not penetrate our atmosphere. Still, one theory says that might have been responsible 440 million years ago, by and allowing in a flood of (eerie space music) Unlike lower-energy forms of gamma rays are produced of atomic nuclei in nuclear reactions. On the hunt for clandestine nuclear tests, on July 2nd, 1967, the Vela detected a flash of gamma radiation that was unlike a nuclear weapon. (gong bangs) As additional Vela a team at Los Alamos National these mysterious bursts in their data. They were able to narrow and to rule out a It would take at least 30 years to figure out what they were. (rocket engine rumbles) (slow piano music) A year after the launch of the Hubble Space Telescope in 1990, the 17-ton Compton Gamma in part, to produce a comprehensive Over a thousand detections were randomly spread across the sky. That led to another great to stimulate fresh thinking Donald Lamb of the University they came from a recently that had escaped into (space music) Bohdan Paczynski of Princeton their locations followed of galaxies and quasars. But at those distances, he conceded, the bursts would have to be known in the universe. And yet a third of them disappear The rest die out within minutes. Were they stars flaring up Or were they something far more violent, and more fundamental to the (frantic instrumental music) In the years that followed, a revolution would sweep the The Chandra X-ray Observatory It was followed by the Integral in 2002, and HETE-2 in 2003. (frantic instrumental music) The ultimate gamma ray hunter, Swift, was sent into orbit in 2004. With ultraviolet, X-ray, Swift's goal was to pinpoint as many as 100 gamma ray bursts per year, and to relay their locations That would allow astronomers on the ground to quickly aim their to capture the afterglow. That would allow them and to find clues to what (synthesized music) Those clues began to appear in early 1997. An Italian satellite called BeppoSAX detected a burst and relayed The Hubble Space Telescope of the fading afterglow, another galaxy beyond our own. Astronomers analyzed light and found hints that it was The association with supernovae A 1998 burst coincided (gentle piano music) A 2003 burst with this supernova. And a 2006 burst with this supernova. But these were no ordinary explosions. Scientists were struck by the and by their extreme brightness. On March 19th, 2008, that originated 7.5 And yet its afterglow was bright enough to be seen with the naked eye from Earth. That confirmed a long running suspicion, that the source was a narrow and extremely powerful beam of light. What astronomers saw was as it passed through clouds of gas, heating them up to billions of degrees, and generating ultra Phenomena like this are not You can find beams and high falls rapidly into stars, Few of these are known as a gamma ray burst. September 13th, 2008. The Swift satellite recorded a burst with the power of 9000 supernovae, and a jet that was clocked at (adventurous music) April 29th, 2009 brought the second most distant object ever recorded. The journey of this gamma ray burst started 13.14 billion years ago. Astronomers have begun to for understanding the chemical going all the way back to were just beginning to form. (adventurous music) But how does nature produce reach across the entire breadth One team of scientists has close to home, in a giant galaxy some 50 million light The Event Horizon thousands of kilometers apart into a single giant instrument. The astronomers targeted because they are just the through dust and gas in the core of M87. That galaxy has one of the at 6.6 billion solar masses. The resolution of this system on a region just outside the event horizon of the black hole, the point beyond which nothing can escape its gravitational pull. The scientists were able to see down to the base of a spectacular jet that blasts continuously This region is held under Subject to what Albert space and time are pulled along on a path that leads into the black hole. As gas, dust, stars, or they form into a disk that spirals in with the flow of space time. The spinning motion of this can channel some of the inflowing matter out into a pair of (space music) How a jet can form was shown of a short gamma ray burst. It was based on a recorded by Swift on May 8th, 2005. It had come from a giant galaxy 2.6 billion light years Scientists suspected that this falling into a catastrophic embrace. Orbiting each other, gradually gaining speed. At the end of the line, they until they finally merged. NASA scientists simulated the final 35 thousandths of a second, As the two objects move together, their mass is scrambled into a dense, hot cloud of swirling debris. On the right, are magnetic fields that spin up off this cloud. Blue represents magnetic strength a billion times greater These fields begin to that surrounds the The new structure becomes and the magnetic field takes (slow mysterious music) Within less than a second it launches a jet of particles (slow mysterious music) A similar chain of events, is responsible for Stars resist gravity by generating photons that push outward on their enormous mass. But the weight of a large star's core increases from the produced in nuclear fusion. (slow mysterious music) In time, its outer layers and the star collapses. (slow mysterious music) The crash produces a shock wave that races through the (slow mysterious music) In the largest of these dying stars, known as collapsars or hypernovae, a black hole forms in the collapse. Matter flowing in forms a disk. Charged particles create magnetic fields that twist off this disk, sending a portion out in high-speed jets. (gentle piano music) Simulations show that the to plow its way through the star. (dramatic music) In so doing, it may help (dramatic music) The birth of a black hole does not simply light up the universe. It is a crucial event in that seed the birth of new (light adventurous music) The black hole birth cries with a fleet of high-energy telescopes, are part of a wider response Take the gamma ray burst in late March 2011. It came from a normally quiescent galaxy in the Constellation Draco, (upbeat inspiring music) Most gamma ray bursts fade This one lasted four and a half hours. Scientists concluded that it could not have come from a supernova. They proposed instead that a thrown off track during an It moved too close to a in the center of the galaxy. This animation shows what happened. The black hole tore the star apart, and launched a jet from (upbeat adventurous music) The jet happened to be We can be grateful this and that we are not in the firing line of a super massive black hole that lies in the center of our own galaxy. Astronomers have observed giant stars whipped to high speeds by this monster. (upbeat adventurous music) Should one of these stars it could become prey. The monster will surely of its conquest, with a blinding flash that's visible across the universe. (adventurous music) (synthesized music) (rhythmic music)