I entered a Pokemon tournament Some of these people were my opponents who had to deal with the evil Pokemon team But they weren't No. Throughout the entire tournament, because they realized that into the public eye, But I'm getting ahead of myself. This story begins right after the 2024 where I finished 17th. This is a good performance and I worked Spending hours a day for months training to become the world champion. And after such a grueling tournament, but I can't, because there's a tournament It's Baltimore Regionals and it's about so it would be really silly to not go, tournament for the next World This year, it's a bit harder to qualify. Only the top 75 trainers in North America Championships, But if you win a regional, Saving a ton of stress. So my goal is not only to do well, And I have another reason I have won more regional championships total of nine. the player in second has six, When I reached my fifth, I decided that my goal was to eventually and Baltimore Regionals but I have a problem. I need to build a team. Building a team is, in my opinion, There's hundreds of Pokemon to choose from, each with millions As a team builder, you're trying to choose to allow them to beat literally every other combination of Pokemon Which, take it from me. Normally Like I said, I just spent several months if I thought it was good enough Shouldn't it be good enough Believe me, I would love to use it again. But I can't because half of the Pokemon on Right after worlds, And every single Legendary upstate, leaving us with the Muk This is completely unprecedented. They have literally And that means that not only is my worlds it also means I don't even have a sense Is it finally time for Dudunsparce? So I leave the World Championships and go straight to New York I'm not thinking about Pokemon. I'm instead losing repeatedly in smash. Much to Ganondorf's dismay. But my friends online are talking about There's all these strong combinations Pelipper Archaludon, who abuse the rain Dondozo Tatsugiri, who combined ability, Lilligant Torkoal, Indeedee Hatterene, who take advantage of the psychic terrain set by Indeedee's ability, Sand Rush ability to double its speed Even though I'm not actively working on How can I possibly beat That night the jetlag kicks in I lie in bed, tossing and turning My brain just won't shut down. And since I quickly exhaust like planning out my next ice cream flavor interaction Nope, that's not the right words. I soon and then it hits me. Every single Pokemon at the forefront If I can somehow prevent my opponent from using these abilities, their options and they'd be forced to reconsider And there is a Pokemon that shuts down Weezing. It's a Pokemon Less than a year ago, I built a Weezing team for fun that ended and I'm not 100% sure. But after I won the tournament and made The Pokemon Company changed that I was using in the video. So I may have been responsible I'm not entirely sure. Also, in Sword and Shield, getting to number one in the world pairing it with Dynamax Jolteon actually, I think Weezing is a really fun Pokemon to build a team around just shut down your opponents abilities, this means that you're much more limited But if you can pull off a team where you while also taking away your opponents, But there is an issue. Last year I told myself because I was tired of showing up Even though Weezing is well positioned, I mean, it's certainly not Does that mean I can't use it? Well, it isn't January 1st yet, New year, New Wolfe. Last year my goal was to use This year, my goal is to use whichever the highest odds because I forced myself I honed the skill of forcing myself to use even when other Pokemon A skill that, if I can be honest, now that I've developed the capacity calling out to me like the Green Goblin Basically what I'm trying to say I'm really excited to show you in my opinion, one of the coolest ones But I also want to say I would really appreciate it Videos like these think it's because, in the world in a video game, while that take over 80 hours to make, while to hire talented editors to make the video Is something of an unusual combination. I'm not saying this but instead to make the case you should subscribe not only because it helps me out a bunch, that you're not going to get anywhere Okay, let's talk about the team. My first thought is to use regular classic Kanto I wake up the next morning and play a few games to test on my phone, because regular Weezing is a support it relies really heavily on its partners And since I don't have any experience I can't easily spot Is this the end for Weezing? Yes. Well, it's the end for Kanto Weezing, Galarian Weezing shares the same stats but there is a key difference. Galarian Weezing is not only a poison and the reason Weezing access to offensive moves importantly, dazzling gleam, a fairy But how does this help? Dazzling so it really shouldn't You would be right if we were trying to use Galarian Weezing for support I don't know why I'm using the royal we but let's just roll with it, cause it's But because Galarian Weezing we can use it in a different way. As an offensive damage dealer. This is made possible that boosts the holder's damage output at the cost of once they've clicked an attack, consistent move that hits both targets, Weezing can also use Sludge Bomb move, Strange Steam for a stronger but with two fairy moves and a poison one, to handle steel types, and that's Flamethrower also pairs well with Terra flamethrowers damage, but also gives Steel in particular is important, Gholdengo is one of the most popular Pokemon move, Make It Rain is really important, Weezing is weak to steel type moves When I first start using Weezing, and super strong, but it ends up Like, I'd look away from my screen for like a dog who's always trying to run off. could even kill me with Shadow So I end up dropping and use the extra stat points to focus on surviving shadow Ball, Keeping Weezing on the field soon as it goes down, your opponents Of course, by using Weezing as an offensive Pokemon, It also isn't that strong because like it has a lower special attack When I was at my friend's Zane's bachelor this idea for Weezing with Choice Specs, it's not going to hit that hard. Even with the Choice Specs. And he was like, it's not going to 2HKO And I was like, dude, it's It doesn't 2HKO Incineroar with Sludge Bomb, even with the Choice And there's still the issue with Pokemon that don't care Of course, that opens up when we're considering Not only Pokemon but Pokemon Regigigas and Slaking that come to mind but Regigigas is banned and Slaking is way since if they ever knock out Weezing, you're basically losing But there is a newer Pokemon A Pokemon that turns Weezing into an absolute nightmare Toedscruel's ability Mycelium Might causes all of its non in exchange for Toedscruel's status moves of whatever it hits. This sucks and gets access to the non that puts the target to sleep. It can also support its team And it also has really good special bulk. If Toedscruel had literally any other a physically frailer version of Amoonguss, a lot of other Pokemon and shut them down. As it stands, though, Toedscruel hasn't seen but when paired with Weezing, Toedscruel about the abilities on the opponents team, And as if this weren't enough synergy the move Acid Spray, it hits in half. Like I said, Weezing isn't But when the opponent is taking double damage thanks to acid spray, With just one move slot left, Toedscruel is really weak, but it still Plus if I do hit something with acid earth power starts being, well, Using these four moves means Toedscruel the covert cloak item to help with Fake Out And so it's really good against Pokemon cloak stops the secondary effects I give Toedscruel a Tera type of water type moves, and train it Ursaluna Blood Moon. Also, I really like Shiny Toedscruel, that I shiny hunted for Actually, I was also hunting for a Weezing hunting for it, shiny Koffing showed up and I saved and I went to battle it. I put it to sleep, I threw a Pokeball. It woke up after one, uh, Pokeball didn't It used memento and I was like, It knocked itself out, But yeah, I turned the game back on So anyway, Now, I might but I know that you don't want to miss out Dimensionals! Dimensionals is a turn based There's dozens of heroes and you can build a party of three of them to create super interesting combos I really like this guy, Thundergust. I don't know, I feel like Like, I don't know, go mini golfing I love mini golfing. Wolfe, you're in the middle of an ad read. Oh, sorry. It's like I was in another dimension there. In Dimensionals told through awesome voice acted, It's really fun, and shows Now I'm done growing. The game's combat is layered and interesting, You can check out or check it out via And there's even more Story, Thanks again to Dimensionals Back in the teambuilding dimension, and Weezing. So far, we have a core that shuts down and defensive abilities And we also have a Pokemon to sleep, stopping them which cannot be slowed down by fake out the opponent's special defense stat, While all they can do is snooze. might have been a little bit upset Especially because with Mycelium Toedscruel is the fastest spore but we can go even further beyond. Now, at the moment, is Archaludon, a dragon and steel and is nearly impossible to get rid of due It can hit Weezing for super effective and Toedscruel can struggle with it too which is its most common Tera type, The best fighting types in but they're both banned right now, I start looking through the remaining and, a lot of these But then something catches my eye. Pawmot. I know that sounds like I'm pronouncing it which I don't even do anymore, But actually Pawmot I know that for a fact. Maybe you don't. That's none of my, that's none of my business. Anyway, I don't like it either. I don't agree with it, but but, so don't yell at me if you're mad, Now, Pawmot is also not When Calyrex and Flutter Mane are around, Pawmot is one of the fastest and even though it doesn't have the highest attack stat, it can use that both do serious damage: Close combat hits really hard but the downside doesn't actually matter already, and it's holding the focus sash item, Let's be honest, even without the close combat drops. Double Shock is its signature move. It hits as strong as close combat, the user to lose its Electric typing and Double Shock can only be used In other words, to use this move once However, if you Terastallize to Electric, meaning you can spam double shock Pawmot gets one of the single Revival Blessing. This move allows you to bring back and that is completely and utterly With neither Toedscruel Pawmot needs to have it, And while I did have Revival I realized that on this team Revival Blessing is a really good move when you're already ahead, but it's often I also don't have that many like high If either Toedscruel or Weezing actually doesn't help that much, can't do much on its own, that starting with half of its HP gone Blessing also doesn't do anything I'm not saying it's bad. It absolutely is But on this team, Fake Out. Fake Out can be really effective with Weezing against an opponent It also allows it to work before it kind of had to stay in the back Blessing. Fake Out is really, really useful Room teams that have been giving me Normally, Fake Out is not effective Trick Room, the Pokemon Indeedee, whose ability Psychic Surge all priority But with Weezing around, from ever going up as long as I K.O. Indeedee early and then I can use Basically what I'm trying to say useful generally, whereas revival blessing oftentimes Also, I think it's nicer to the Pokemon Like, imagine you faint two times And then, like other Pokemon oh yeah, like they brought, you know, And then. Yeah, like they lost the battle anyway. Like, I don't know, I think it's nicer to let them Pawmot's Ability Cures status conditions Which means if it doesn't have a status condition. So I don't really care about giving now I definitely need a Pokemon as it often runs either making it immune to spore, move Quiver dance to make itself On the special side. After a Quiver Dance, Weezing even with the Choice Specs Volcarona's supporting partners. So clearly I need some help. Corviknight looks bad on paper because although it is a physical flying type But I realize that if I give it Corviknight should be able Corviknight also provides It's a defensive Pokemon with incredible typing, capable It can heal itself with roost and it can support its teammates Tailwind doubles the speeds of your team and with Weezing being slower naturally, this can suddenly flip Tailwind does normally shine on faster Pokemon before other Pokemon move, to have it be on a slower because a lot of my Pokemon and so it isn't as big a deal to like, because you really want it a lot of the time, Corviknight's ability back of the Pokemon but most stat drops in competitive Pokemon intimidate, and when Weezing's around, I train Corviknight to survive and make it fast enough to out speed in tailwind, putting the remaining points While It is capable of outputting good, if you ignore it for too long, thanks to the high base At this point, my team is starting the most evil Pokemon Incineroar is the best Pokemon Shield item prevents Weezing from shutting and that allows me to intimidate Pokemon Kingambit, Dragapult, and Annihilape then I add Hydreigon as another way And the team feels really good. Sometimes. Sometimes it feels really good. Toedscruel and Weezing But also there are and not all of my Pokemon The clear weakest link is Hydreigon. I almost never bring it. I'm having trouble versus fast fire types like Volcarona and Blaze Tauros, So I want a Pokemon faster than all of those Pokemon That also doesn't care about its ability Yeah. Garchomp. Garchomp's ground typing all of the Pokemon that I'm struggling But as a dragon type, Garchomp Normally, I'd want the clear attack stat from being lowered via with Weezing around, Speaking of abilities, Garchomp's rough skin is definitely valuable, It does a little chip damage that hits Garchomp with a contact move. while this damage can definitely help, like Sneasler or Pokemon For the most part, I consider it a bonus, Oh yeah, and because I don't need the Life Orb item to make Garchomp I can boost its damage boosting the power of both earthquake It might seem weird but remember that Weezing can't protect itself, so I need And earthquake is incredibly good or to finish off an end game against low Dragon Claw is Garchomp's most consistent Dragon type move Orb and protect helps keep Garchomp safe to stall out my opponent's Garchomp improves the team actually bringing it to the battles, Pawmot is my fastest Pokemon, and that means that there's my entire team. Faster Tailwind setters are especially difficult, and Kilowattrel, since they can be paired with a Pokemon And then there's nothing Also, Amongus is really tough except for Toedscruel So clearly something has to change. But with Hydreigon gone, It's Incineroar. The best Pokemon ever made It's too slow, it doesn't hit hard enough. And between Corviknight, I already have enough support. I don't even like Incineroar, to use the strongest Pokemon this year. So why is it on the team? It's gone and I'm going to replace it Hisuian Typhlosion it gives me a Pokemon that can out speed and with its new Ghost typing, which is normally one of the best ways Scarf Pokemon. Typhlosion also learns a ridiculously powerful move Normally, the way players stop Drizzle ability or Whimsicott's Prankster or take away the speed advantage before it can move. But with Weezing around, Typhlosion of those things. It also helps that both of Typhlosion's Frisk shows the items of the opponent's we're told what the items are before Blaze only activates when Typhlosion is at Typhlosion is and how weak low HP eruption Heat Wave allows Typhlosion to have a fire move that hits and Shadow Ball is its strongest ghost type move, But remember, and although Typhlosion can threaten it doesn't help when I need something Does that mean it's not going to work? Well, I do still have one move slot left. So I decide to use the extremely This move does nothing but will randomly select if the user is asleep. It's normally used in conjunction which puts the user to sleep on Typhlosion I can use it Sleep talk has a two thirds chance of getting a fire move and smacking and it helps that Amoonguss can't Typhlosion once it's put it to sleep. It resists both bug and poison, which are And also it's not really like there's many other moves Typhlosion other options or like Blast Burn and like, yeah, they do have some uses, but on this team Typhlosion with Toedscruel, Toedscruel to terastallize into the Grass type but that then causes them to take super Toedscruel can also use Acid Spray the turn before Typhlosion the damage of eruption, making even fire The synergy works Grass types to terastallize to fire or water, which then means Fun fact about the specific Typhlosion my girlfriend's first Pokemon game ever was actually Legends Arceus, So I brought her first which she nicknamed NyQuil. if you want to use this team for yourself, you can do so using the rental code here. Just be aware the team is technically I want to use Shiny Toedscruel, had bad attack IVs, And Typhlosion has a non perfect attack If you don't know what that means, It is literally so niche during the tournament, I just feel like I should let people know they, I don't know, check the IV. And are I know it's not perfect okay, Oh, also, if you do want to use the team, that's over an hour long, that talks about as well as talking about that happen Basically, there are some super, that almost never come up generally because they involve Weezing but they're really weird. For example, some abilities activate Regenerator or Pawmot's Natural Cure, when Weezing is on the field, but Palafin's Zero to Hero ability, switching out, does work there are literally dozens of these. I was messaging my friend DaWoblefet and every single day Huge shout out to DaWoblefet, by the way. Like he is the number one and whenever there's something really I bother and say, specifically, that are present that I otherwise wouldn't have known before the tournament, Anyway, yeah, I made this video on Patreon if you're curious about the general ones and for any weird mechanics of course I'll explain them here, but if you want to see like more of them, Anyway, with the team complete, I play some games online some people hard enough that, a couple other players I succeed in keeping it Mostly. Day before the tournament, my friend the team he was planning on just isn't working, and he's wondering Justin is a really good friend of mine, I send him the EV spreads, replays and game with the time that we have left. Now all that's left is the tournament I'll need to win six of my eight games today, cut bracket, I'll need to win Regardless, starts, which is that But first I ask myself a question. Do I really want to release this team With the right play, it can completely shut out opponents And once the tournament is over, Am I prepared to unleash and allow the competitive Pokemon Yes, yes, I am. But right now, I'm because I only got two hours of sleep Being generous. This feels like Arceus It's not like I couldn't sleep because I I think this is just the, like, still kicking my butt. Anyway, I'm driving to the city that is exorbitantly priced let me back out and head in to the venue My first opponent is using a team It's a kind of bulky offense team Volcarona, Kingambit and Sneasler, Now, obviously my primary strategy and Toedscruel, but that doesn't mean I need to use it like this one, Weezing and Toedscruel is a great lead, Clefable has both Safety meaning they can redirect my spore, They could also lead or Rillaboom to get around spore The thing about all these anti Pokemon, though, is So here's the plan. Don't bring Weezing and then hit them after trying to bully them out The battle starts with my Typhlosion and Volcarona, against my Typhlosion, Garchomp to Corviknight and my Eruption for about 85% of their health But now I can force the Volcarona to protect Dragon Tailwind the advantage is mine I go into Garchomp with Dragon Claw and Brave Bird, and now they don't have enough defense, offense or speed in order to win. I use my faster Pokemon but tournament sets are best two out Thankfully, that factors in how they're most likely The game starts with my dynamic duo They try to Fake Out Toedscruel while but Covert Cloak stops while Weezing Sludge Bomb drops I double into the Sneasler the next turn with Earth Power as Rillaboom I Spore the Kingambit and finish off sleep and my opponent but I ignored it and Earth Powered the Kingambit, Next turn, I double Primarina and although it survives, Kingambit They finally wake up and Sucker Punch Primarina and I send in my full I kill the Rillaboom winning me the game without even needing That's the power of Toedscruel. my opponent's Pokemon, literally spent I'm beginning to see why they decided to give this Pokemon an ability And also, why they've never given And okay, if I'm being honest, where I start to maybe question Since I did just release this team The second round goes up. And as I sit down Huh? It's the exact same. Okay, the Clefable is Tera Steel Tera Dragon instead of Tera Grass. But the Pokemon Good news is, I already have a plan. I once again start game against their Volcarona and Clefable. but I ignore it and launch Eruption who goes down. The Sneasler comes out in order to activate the Sneasler's They wanted to KO Typhlosion. before it could move with Throat Chop, and Dragon Claw and Eruption KOs Rillaboom I switch Typhlosion to Pawmot and but instead Sneasler goes down to Dragon Unfortunately for them, cannot win the one against four. I win game one. Game two, same plan. Toedscruel and Weezing time, They switch to the Sneasler and Rillaboom lead. Now, I realized that even though round one, I used Sludge Bomb - that actually was a bit of a risk, because if Kingambit switches in, So I change my play. I try and Spore the Sneasler, U-turn brings in Kingambit health in the process. Unfortunately for them, and I dropped the newly We both reposition and they get a Swords Dance up with King Gambit, Wood Hammer and +2 Sucker and I knock out the Kingambit. With Kingambit down, and then Sneasler for KOs and my opponent forfeits has no chance of beating my full Two wins, zero losses. Even though Toedscruel was a little bit It still did his job and creating space for Weezing to do Spore is the best way but if they're switching they're not doing anything to stop Weezing Sometimes the threat of being put to sleep has the same outcome In the third round Though there are some familiar faces, and Rillaboom, but it also has Unlike the last two Volcarona, item, making Toedscruel the last two Volcarona teams but with the item on the moth it's Basically, I shouldn't be relying on so let's try a different lead: My idea is that Typhlosion threatens on the opponent's side two Pokemon who are weak to Pawmot. and Weezing, I'm expecting my opponent that's just not very well They lead with Volcarona and Choice Specs Tera Steel Gholdengo. This is an abysmal The Gholdengo's and if Volcarona attacks, it'll go down So I make a prediction. Gholdengo is going to switch out I decide to use my Terra preemptively, This might seem a little strange, Tera Electric later to let me use might seem preemptive, Terastallizing into a type that you already have in which case it takes my Electric moves However, if I use Double Shock Pawmot will lose its Electric typing If I then terastallize into Electric, as if it were a Fighting type rather than a Fighting and Electric type What this means is that if I use Double Shocks are only as strong as regular But if I terastallize before attacking, increase on all future Double Shocks. Anyway, this play works. My opponent protects Volcarona who promptly loses 85% of its health. And this is especially bad because losing now really leaves my opponent I kill Volcarona to the next turn but Flame Body burns Pawmot as a parting shot and Tyranitar KOs They send out Gholdengo. Now, I could in theory KO both their Pokemon here But if their last Pokemon is Salamence, They could switch Tyranitar out from Garchomp with Intimidate and KO both my Pokemon with Tera Steel so instead I decide to play it slow, and Protecting with Garchomp This not only lowers Gholdengo's it also cures Pawmot's Burn And now because they didn't I'm pretty sure that they don't have it. They switch Gholdengo to Primarina most of its health to Earthquake KOs the low HP Tyranitar. Now both the remaining Pokemon are in range of Earthquake, So we're going into game two. And the most obvious thing is that and Weezing together. I know that but the thing is that this team has Safety which those teams didn't have the entire strategy It's a hard counter. All of this to say that I absolutely Game two starts with Toedscruel Weezing So immediately. This is really bad. I can't use Spore to stop Volcarona are in range of getting KOed by a boosted So I have no choice Ignoring the Salamence. Thankfully, my reading comprehension Salamence Protects, Volcarona uses by one stage, but Acid Spray drops Weezing Sludge Bomb follows up and does 80% Volcarona is now in red HP, Volcarona launches a heat wave, Toedscruel may be weak to Fire, that it doesn't matter. Toedscruel Spores Salamence and I make another prediction that Giga Drain would have prevented them from fainting to the poison, but I thought So I take the risk and it pays off. As Weezing attacks into Salamence, and dealing over half of Salamence's Gholdengo hits the field. Now I can go for Spore into And the only way I'll lose the speed tie with Salamence and I'm not even completely sure since the only interaction Toedscruel moved first, so I decide it's other than this specific scenario happens, They win the speed tie, get the one turn wake up And now down two against three, We're going to game three. I'm going back to my game one lead. No more Toedscruel or Weezing for me. So now in game three, my opponent sends out Rillaboom and Volcarona We both have fake out pressure active, but my fake out is faster. So I'm the one in the driver's seat. Especially since Typhlosion Now this Rillaboom does have Tera Fire, so terastallize to Fire But if I go for Fake Out and Eruption So I don't think Volcarona switches to Salamence, and Double Shock into Volcarona, as they Quiver Dance. They Protect Volcarona, but I terastallize Pawmot to before it can move with Eruption Rillaboom comes back in and terastallizes Volcarona goes for a Giga Drain but the combination of Eruption and Double Shock finish it off Typhlosion, their last Pokemon is Rillaboom and Gholdengo have no chance I win the game and the set. So what did we learn? Maybe don't bring Toedscruel into matchups Maybe? Round Four. I'm matched against a team Specs Dragapult, Tyranitar, Gholdengo, Incineroar Amoonguss and then Dozo without Tatsugiri. This team does look a little scary, but everything is slower than down a lot of my opponent's really useful to not lead Weezing and Toedscruel So I go with Weezing, Toedscruel, Typhlosion, and Garchomp, My opponent leads with Incineroar and Gholdengo, meaning I go to lock it in and, Why does my Toedscruel have wings? Why is it made of metal? Why did I lead Weezing and Corviknight? Remember how I mentioned Well, apparently there are consequences. The order I had my Pokemon in during my practice is different from the order and I guess my brain just autopiloted At least that's my best guess because I don't think that Toedscruel Anyway, whereas Toedscruel would have And by the time I realize what happened, With almost no time on the clock that I've never even used before. I make the call to switch This is the right decision, if I got the order I needed to switch Corviknight But I reversed it. And this matters when it leaves the field, so doing it I intimidate my own Garchomp I switch my Typhlosion into a Knock OAff, And to top it all off, So in just one turn, intimidate my own Garchomp, and let the Of all the turn ones I've made that was definitely one of them. I try to recover and Brave Bird into Gholdengo, so two turns in I go for Tera Ground Earthquake. But because of the Intimidate, and Gholdengo uses Shadow Ball as I set up Tailwind and Incineroar to bring in Dondozo. Corviknight back up, Dondozo uses Wave Crash into Garchomp because I'm now a Ground type, Incineroar comes back out, with Brave Bird as Dondozo sets up which means that now both my opponent's Weezing and Corviknight work Tyranitar and KO Dondozo and Garchomp Somehow, despite my best/worst efforts, Okay, that was really, really bad. Let me make sure that I'm actually choosing the Pokemon I intend to The good thing about winning is that maybe my opponent what I meant to do, and therefore I'm definitely going to bring it though. Their leads are the same, Gholdengo and Incineroar. They terastallize Gholdengo Toedscruel to Water, but their Gholdengo takes a nap as Incineroar Flare Blitzes Toedscruel and Weezing uses Sludge Bomb I switch Weezing into Typhlosion turn wake up and Earth Power and Parting Shots Thankfully Gholdengo does stay asleep. I switch Typhlosion out into Garchomp but they switch Tyranitar to Incineroar Gholdengo wakes up and uses Shadow Ball into Garchomp, They send out Dragapult. Now I think that Toedscruel can survive I Protect Garchomp But I was wrong and it goes down, I send out Typhlosion I can Shadow Ball the Dragapult Gholdengo in one hit because of that If Dragapult switches to Tyranitar so Garchomp could try and hit the incoming to cover for the switch. Or alternatively, and Gholdengo to Attack but that would lose to either deciding to stay in. Dragapult hits Gholdengo. Dragon Claw hits it too and finishes Dragapult comes back out and immediately goes down to a Shadow Ball, and Garchomp Four wins, zero losses. What I told my friends about what happened the first two turns of this set They were quite surprised. Frankly, I am also quite surprised, That felt like when you and then the teacher announces or as a certain GOATed nuzlocker Anyway, I realized that even though I'm not running on much sleep, Or I'm going to keep making silly the next round goes up, and I'm paired of the format, a team I knew It's a Trick Room team featuring Porygon2, in the entire format, and Ursaluna, one of the single Or it's supposed to be that way. At least. Ursaluna has ridiculous stats and deals massive damage with absurdly powerful moves, Guts powers up if it's affected by a status condition Ursaluna at the end of the first turn Normally, Burn cuts a Pokemon's ignore the drawback. And all of this combos with Ursaluna's if the target is burnt, tripling in power and ending up at 4.5 times because Ursaluna gets a damage boost on all Normal moves But all of that is only Without Guts, it gets from Guts in the first place, cut in half because of the Burn This team is also really, really slow. In fact, every single Pokemon on it It is not a free win, that the opponent can do But I think that in this matchup, I'm I lead with Toedscruel Weezing This is a very clever In order to KO the Amoonguss, and a Weezing attack, which would then If I Spore Porygon2, they can Spore Weezing to see who wakes up first. So is there nothing I can do except to Yes, but I don't have to let Weezing Remember, that doesn't care if it falls asleep. Typhlosion. The game begins and I switch Porygon2, Amoonguss Spores But wait, that doesn't seem right. How did Toedscruel move first? Well, this is another extremely specific thanks to DaWoblefet's help. The turn So if you set up Tailwind that speed boost is immediately Meaning even if they weren't the next fastest thing This is different than how speed was set at the start of the turn So for example, if you switched in Politoed you wouldn't suddenly get the Swift Swim However, in Generation 8 things So you would expect that if Weezing starts and then switches out, Mycelium Might since it isn't currently being negated But that's not how it works. I don't know exactly why My theory is that when speed changed mid turn, they didn't update For example, the item Lagging Tail, after other Pokemon, was used somewhat Grimmsnarl would trick the Lagging Tail onto a Dynamax Pokemon, but the Lagging Tail effect wouldn't So if you trick Lagging Tail onto Regieleki, this turn Mycelium Might is effectively just a Lagging Tail so it wouldn't shock me if they just copy pasted the code And this means that Mycelium Might speed conditions, meaning switching to suddenly become slower. So this probably sounds incredibly broken, If Weezing is not already on the field. When Toedscruel's out, I think whether or not this is a boon or a But since I know how the mechanic works, where switching Weezing out is fine, This is part of the reason why I pretty because I know Weezing in So back to the match at hand. Amoonguss and sleeping Porygon2 against But Typhlosion knows Sleep Talk. I lock into Sleep Talk and Typhlosion doing a good chunk to Amoonguss. Amoonguss Pollen Puff, as I kind of thought it was going Unfortunately for me, Porygon2 wakes up Trick Room. Suddenly, My opponent switches and I terastallize This does mean that Amoonguss can spawn me weakness to Ice, I figure Porygon2's Ice Beam as Typhlosion stays asleep and uses and Toedscruel uses Spore on Porygon I switch Toedscruel to Pawmot and they switch Porygon2 to Amoonguss and Facade into Pawmot, Ordinarily, as I have two Ground weak Pokemon However, because of Neutralizing Gas, Ursaluna terastallizes to Ghost but I target Amoonguss Ursaluna launches the strongest Ground dealing super effective damage And that's because the burn turns the super effective move and Headlong Rush drops meaning Weezing The sleeping Porygon2 already used on Ursaluna, Pawmot's Close Porygon2, so I know my opponent I make a read, I switch Pawmot Typhlosion Porygon2 takes its first sleep to red HP, and finally the twisted Now I have a choice to make. Typhlosion has a 50% chance of staying asleep, so I can choose either Porygon2 switches to Flamigo, Typhlosion wakes up and Eruption Flamigo down to its Focus Sash. With all four of my Pokemon I win game one. The second game starts with their Amoonguss and Gholdengo Just like the first game, as they Spore my Typhlosion This time though, I terastallize terastallizes to Dragon and Although it doesn't KO Amoonguss. Toedscruel uses Acid Gholdengo's Special Defense wake up and Shadow Balls Typhlosion. Unfortunately, my notes for the rest of But in the end, I'm down with only two Pokemon and Weezing against Ursaluna, But I pick my targets carefully and somehow end up winning the game a good bit of chip on the opponent's my team's faster speed stats. At this point, I'm just one win away though since I need to win if I want to make it into the top cut, off the gas. My next opponent, has a team It's the team that won one of the first online and it's also the team that eliminated me It's a rain based team with two Steel types and Salamence, Thankfully, this team is mostly scary and it's only way of getting the rain up Drizzle ability. The game starts with their Basculegion and Archaludon Unfortunately for me, both of these Pokemon are Tera Grass, I terastallize Weezing to Fire and Spore mon. To my shock, I look at the team sheet. They have Snarl there I terastallized Weezing for no reason to Basculegion in the process. Not to mention that now Archaludon because of the Snarl, Gleam does very little I switch Weezing out into Pawmot and Spore sleep for the turn. Now, at this point, I have a feeling into Pelipper to activate Drizzle, So I decide to do something very mean. I switch Toedscruel back Gas on the field again And they do switch Archaludon But since Weezing is already on the field again, KOs Basculegion before it can move. Archaludon comes back out, sets up Tailwind and Dazzling My opponent's final Pokemon is Salamence. Pelipper Protects as Weezing, but it doesn't KOs Salamence. Pelipper fails to finish off Weezing, and I win I bring the same Pokemon again my opponent leads with Salamence Salamence terastallizes to Steel, as Archaludon uses snarl to drop Weezing's special do very little. Salamence which is really bad for me because I chose to switch And that means that rain is active this set. I do Spore Archaludon though, Now I have Typhlosion in the rain, I don't really have a Pokemon that I can switch And even though Typhlosion isn't really Pelipper's Focus Sash at some point anyway, and that could even be with a weaker move. So I stay in and click Eruption switching out and preemptively who's a Steel type. Eruption doesn't And Earth Power drops Unfortunately for me, Archaludon wakes up and uses Electro Shot I switch Typhlosion out into Pawmot as they and Toedscruel finishes off Archaludon. I decided to terastallize Pawmot Turn to bring Pawmot down to Sash, but Sash thanks to the very powerful Earth Power finishes off the low Rage Powder protects Pawmot Toedscruel goes down, Pawmot choice locked into Last Respects I can send Typhlosion out and finish the And with that There are two rounds left today, but even if I lose both of them, Now at this point, there are five Winning three of them gets me in, and winning four will most likely But even though this tournament is far I'm still happy having Pokemon is a really, really hard game. And even though I have made day two and Violet launched with the exception and certainly not with one of my most out Round seven goes up and I sit down to see Scyther, Snorlax, Sylveon, The thing is, this actually looks like Sylveon, Meowscarada, Scyther, and Primarina and the only Pokemon on this team Toedscruel is but frankly, my other Pokemon are so good The game begins with my Pawmot and Meowscarada. They Protect both their Pokemon turn one Meowscarada to Sylveon to take the Close against Weezing, dealing over half my does a decent bit But with this much damage I realize that I can clean up I switch Pamwot into Corviknight as Corviknight shrugs off a Hyper Voice, Earthquake KOs sets up Tailwind, doubling my team's speeds that Meowscarada They send out Meowscarada and Snorlax. I use Earthquake and Brave Bird but it blocks it with Protect and Snorlax KOs Garchomp. But between Rough Skin, Double Edge recoil and the Earthquake, Tera Electric Double Shock finishes off Meowscarada down to its Focus Sash while Meowscarada fails Pawmot finishes off My opponent actually got more predictions the team advantage is just so in my favor So I decided to bring the same Pokemon In game two, they lead with Scyther and They probably realize to beat my Corviknight later, technician makes it effectively 50% that is a huge power drop. The battle starts and they terastallize a Dual Wingbeat, but it doesn't even do Scyther survives the Double Shock but it gets finished off by Dazzling Gleam. Snorlax launches it survives that too! My opponent Weezing Their last Pokemon is Tauros, and Mirror Armor reflects the Intimidate I terastallize Corviknight to Dragon, Flare Blitz, but my opponent predicts this, doubling Corviknight Unfortunately for them, it doesn't KO. and I set up Tailwind. KOs both their Pokemon next turn, Seven wins, zero losses. There's just one round left in the day Winning here means that I'll only need to win to make top cut, while winning Now, at this point I do not do well on no sleep, and all I have to do is get through one final push It's against the same Porygon2 my plan with Toedscruel, if it ain't broke, The battle starts but my opponent is doing something Incineroar and Ursaluna. onto Toedscruel with Flare Blitz, so I'm forced to terastallize Ursaluna Protects blocking the Spore, the now water over half of Incineroar's HP. Now at this point, I have a choice to make. with Earth Power, but if it terastallizes Alternatively, I can go for Acid It won't KO but I also know that I survive a This seems like the safer play. Ursaluna is a huge part of the damage and getting guaranteed damage on The turn starts and Ursaluna terastallizes to Normal, Incineroar, knocking off Weezing, reducing its damage and putting it in range of tera Normal Strange Steam doesn't KO Ursaluna, though it does confuse it, and Ursaluna Strange Steam confused Ursaluna? If I can be honest, I forgot that that was something And that's so I tried to avoid clicking It was pretty much just against Ursaluna. So, this was true in practice. I don't know if I've ever confused a Pokemon with this move before, but, Anyway, This means that I can go into Typhlosion To try and survive the pressure, Ursaluna goes for a Protect, Ursaluna hurts itself in confusion, resulting in a double knockout I'm suddenly up three against two and Flamigo, their final two Pokemon, a much more complicated position Both my Pokemon are faster However, if Trick Room goes up, I'm because my last Pokemon is Pawmot, one of my Pokemon is too frail The other complicating factor locked into Eruption which will completely block So Flamigo could Wide Guard but I could counter that by using Spore. speed, it'll still move priority, causing it to move But if my opponent expects me to Spore, Toedscruel before it can move despite Toedscruel And that's because even though Toedscruel Mycelium Might is still active Now if I expect a Wide Guard, which opens up All of this is to say that I So I think about it and I make a call. My opponent is going to expect and so I don't think Eruption can't kill either Pokemon, and The only way I have of preventing can prevent Spore And the only play I have [Stream Commentary] ... lock into Eruption, uhhh... let's see if it goes for it! ...getting the attack off for him, It is. Will activate the Focus Sash on opportunity to attack, because uh, that Flamigo, and will pick up the KO there. to use Trick Room here, it is a bit of an through three Pokemon remaining on Wolfe's I'm up a game. One win away from being undefeated with a record of eight wins But this set is far from over, and my opponent Am I actually going to be able now that my opponent knows what's coming? Game two starts with the exact same leads. Last time I got huge damage onto Incineroar sweep later, but the position If I don't terastallize Toedscruel, terastallize and they don't attack Ursaluna is almost definitely going to Protect. But if I ignore it Rush before it's burnt, So actually, it feels like my opponent's this turn. I decided to hedge my bets. I don't terastallize with Toedscruel, who Protects. But this time Incineroar uses Fake Out into this turn. Now, the turn two is worse for me than I could terastallize Toedscruel, in order for it's it has to go for Flare Blitz. And not only is this very risky, but it would also mean that Acid Spray It only survived game one And Ursaluna just Protected, So I'm gonna launch this combo move again, knowing that Ursaluna is one of the [Stream Commentary] So trying to take advantage of thanks to the status effect and that but just like we saw in game number one, to drop its Special Defense very sharply, the Choice Specs, it will be Parting Shot on that damage this Weezing can do overall, but I think to pivot a Pokemon onto the field while the Ursaluna Yeah, I like that a lot! You still get the same survive, it gets confused once again, so, this is Will Ursaluna find the opportunity to attack ...and unfortunately it does not. But, I mean, the Burn reduced the amount of damage it Well, uh, that was pretty important. Suddenly, I've got a ridiculous lead. I was comfortable trading Weezing for Ursaluna that turn unscathed Strange Steam only hits 95% of the time and confusion activating is only a 1 in 3 chance, Of course, the game isn't over yet, My opponent makes a great play, switching in Incineroar to block the Spore Now Weezing still has this minus one so I decide to switch it out. With Spore I can bring Pawmot in somewhat safely, seems good now that I know that Having seen all four of their Pokemon. But bringing the low HP Ursaluna in to And Incineroar doesn't fall for the tera, and doing a huge chunk of Toedscruel's I'm threatening a KO so I decide to play straight forward, But my opponent denies both KOs and Protecting with Ursaluna. Close Combat breaks Flamigo's Focus Sash and Ursaluna blocks the Acid But even though my opponent once again I didn't take any damage. And because my two Pokemon still in a position where I'm threatening so I just make the straight forward As my opponent double switches again, in to take the Double Shock and Porygon2 Now if my opponent wants, Toedscruel has lost the Covert Cloak However, if that's what they want to do, with Close Combat. So I decide to let them choose. They can have Trick Room with Incineroar They choose to let Incineroar go down Flamigo comes out to turn this game around. They need to do enough damage before will end up being too much, so I sacrifice Toedscruel and Protect Pawmot to waste one turn of Trick Room Weezing is slower than Flamigo, meaning is in more danger than you might think Porygon2 is still at minus two Special Defense. If Flamigo Protects and But if Flamigo attacks, I'll probably win too. I decide to make a call. I'm going to switch Pawmot out to reset all my This way I'll ensure that Typhlosion and Porygon2's Tera Blast lands and suddenly my enormous lead Neither of my Pokemon can Protect. What should I do? It isn't a very bulky Pokemon. Is it possible it goes down? [Stream Commentary] There's also the threat of, if single target move, that's not going to be doing And we don't see that Wide Guard, so uh, Brave Bird indeed, will crash into that Typhlosion Heat Wave and it barely misses the KO on and with Focus Sash still available Even though Trick Room is up, to Porygon2 that I can finish it off and even though Ursaluna uses Earthquake thanks to the Focus Sash, Ursaluna goes down and with just Pawmot day one with eight wins and zero losses, 16 wins and just one loss in games. I meet up with my friends where I completely botch my order, the one hour drive back home, I sleep for close to ten hours and wake up the next morning There are three more rounds of Swiss Winning one of them guarantees two will ensure that I get a bye My first round of the day Vivillon is actually pretty scary Eyes ability, Specifically, Powder and Hurricane, Now. Vivillon is fast, so you might think I could do Toedscruel But this Vivillon is paired with Life Orb So after thinking it over, I come up Toedscruel, Garchomp, The game begins with Vivillon and Porygon2 Now. I am a little surprised to see against the Weezing Toedscruel lead, Toedscruel really draws people's attention and so I've noticed they don't really tend most of the time. Doubling Vivillon with Dragon Claw and Acid Porygon2 launches an Ice Beam into They send out Primarina. Now the obvious move here is to go and set Trick Room up, So despite having such little HP, Garchomp uses Stomping Tantrum though it heals above half and Toedscruel survives the Hyper Voice. which means Spore goes off If Porygon2 stays asleep, I switch Toedscruel out to Corviknight and launch an Earthquake But unfortunately, Porygon2 I Protect both my Pokemon to stall I decide to save Garchomp, switching it Corviknight takes the Hyper Voice Primarina with Brave Bird, Two turns left. I send out Pawmot while Roosting with Corviknight breaks Pawmot's Focus Sash. Gholdengo and there's one turn Now the situation is a bit tricky. My opponent can punish the double Protect play by using Recover with Porygon2 Now if I think they're going to do both, But if I let Pawmot go down, I'll be in Then again, Protecting with Pawmot Do I have a safe play? I think I do actually. I can Protect Pawmot and use Brave Bird This way, even if they do go for Recover, And next turn I can use Close Combat Fighting from the Porygon2. I Brave Bird and they set up a Nasty Plot Very scary, but Pawmot Close and even though Pawmot goes down Corviknight's Brave Bird hits Gholdengo. And now there's an issue. This Gholdengo is Tera Dragon, If I use Stomping Tantrum, But if I use Dragon Claw So I decide to make it as hard I Protect Garchomp and they terastallize Make It Rain, but Corviknight survives And now there's no more guessing and I win game one, Now in game two, I know what I want to do. They did not respect the Toedscruel Weezing lead, The game starts and they lead I Spore Vivillon and Dazzling Gleam Now I can Spore Porygon2 and KO Vivillon with Dazzling Gleam Gholdengo comes out I ignore Gholdengo using Acid Spray into Porygon2. To my shock, Gholdengo doesn't Protect Toedscruel with Make It Rain. But thanks to the Tera Fire Porygon2 with red HP. Porygon2 sleeps for a second turn, suddenly extremely difficult I send out Pawmot and Gholdengo is forced Their final Pokemon is but I doubled Gholdengo and Double With a full HP Corviknight in the back my opponent sees that they've lost I've made top cut in the tournament at this point, but Round ten goes up and it's against a strange Tailwind team Whimsicott, Glimmora and Farigiraf, Game one starts with their Tauros and Corviknight. Corviknight reflects the intimidate back Garchomp can survive a Moonblast very safe, but I realized that this Tauros has Aqua Jet, would probably be enough So I switch Garchomp into Weezing and Moonblast into that slot, doing very little damage and Corviknight Next turn, they set up Tailwind But Dazzling Gleam KOs Because of the Wave and I set up a Tailwind to match theirs. Their last two Pokemon are Glimmora All I have to do is bring Garchomp in and But game two doesn't go as smoothly. I bring the same four Pokemon as game one, who I didn't reveal in the first game, and Glimmora lead. I think this is probably fine, that Corviknight can survive the Meteor terastallizing to Grass and Whimsicott Earthquake doesn't do very much to either And with the help from Moonblast, and now I don't really have an answer Glimmora and I quickly lose as Whimsicott sets Tailwind up However, I think their game plan was actually quite risky and I Game three starts Tera Grass Glimmora, and a seemingly insignificant earthquake. Except that double not very effective Sash. to send out, I make faces that imply I'm not. I know what I'm about to do. After 40 seconds I continue making confused faces, The turn starts and Weezing switches which means that Whimsicott cannot set and because Gomorrah is now a Grass type, both. Their final two and Weezing and Garchomp I win game three, putting me But there's no time to rest. The final round of swiss is up This is against a rain team, but this one has a focus on defense It's using a support Maushold to boost Grimmsnarl to further reduce damage and I've never played against but to me it looks kind of weak The battle starts with Typhlosion Weezing This Pelipper is Life Orb and Tera Stellar, but They terastallize Pelipper right away for the damage boost and Protect Maushold but Hurricane connects and KOs Weezing I go into Pawmot and K.O. Maushold with Eruption and Close Combat, If I'd known my calcs, Typhlosion on either of the turns, Pelipper KOs Typhlosion, which is a problem and neither Pawmot or Garchomp I lose game one, I stick to my game plan for game two, and this time my opponent leads I terastallize Typhlosion to Fire, based on how much my game one Eruption I'm pretty sure that this will KO. Annihilape terastallizes to Dragon, the Eruption and gets a Beat Up off, Weezing. I send out Garchomp and let Annihilape Pelipper comes out, Eruption will KO Maushold, which removes the Pelipper, but Maushold goes and Pelipper just barely survives And now, with just Pawmot and Garchomp, I lose game two which means I finish the first two phases of ten wins and one loss. Now it's time for the final bracket. My placement is good enough While some players have to play an extra I don't know who exactly I'm playing yet, offensive team built around and Indeedee Male or the same Porygon2 As the matches progress, I get my answer. It's the Porygon2 team. and it's actually being piloted that I've been working with I've been giving them and it's been really cool to see them It feels like a very full circle moment they hadn't asked for advice so it's not like because I'd seen the details of it Though I have played against this team and crucially, one of those times I let Toedscruel and Weezing, and so I think there's that they'll be expecting it The number one lead I would expect if they're trying to counter Toedscruel and And so even though it's risky I'm going to lead Toedscruel and go with an anti Incineroar The battle starts with my Pawmot and Typhlosion I think they might go for Tera And so just to be safe, I terastallize my Typhlosion to fire they do terastallize Eruption does most of their health but Incineroar goes for Parting Shot, This lets them get Ursaluna in safely and activates the Flame Orb I decide to switch Pawmot out, pretty sure that Eruption which would then mean my Close Combat and Rocky Helmet would break Pawmot's Focus Sash. I switch in Corviknight and Amoonguss goes for Rage Headlong Rush KOs Typhlosion and I and Amoonguss switches out into Incineroar Gholdengo comes out and I switch Garchomp out with Brave Bird thanks to the Headlong with their tera burnt, I win the game the last two Pokemon are both In game two, and Weezing lead as my opponent Unfortunately, It was extremely long and drawn out and A sticking point into terastallizing to Water and something neither of the other Porygon2 The game was really close but in the end I run out of gas It's all going to come down to game three. I have a choice to make. Do I go back to my game a call out for the Incineroar or should I stick with Toedscruel I think it over and decide to bet My opponent had to make multiple correct If I play a little bit more aggressively, but this was the complete wrong thing The battle starts with Toedscruel against Incineroar and Porygon2. Because of how the last game played out, switching to Amoonguss and launch Acid without terastallizing. KOs Toedscruel with Flare Blitz and survives My back two Pokemon are Pawmot Two of my Pokemon can't Protect, in Trick Room. My team's lack of defense for me to overcome, and although I do I've given up far too much ground. I lose the game, the set and am eliminated from the tournament And I'm okay with this. I feel no shame in losing to an opponent and that's what happened here. At some point in every Pokemon tournament, means elimination from the tournament, well the rest of the tournament It's tough, Pokemon tournaments are incredibly, There is a very real chance despite being the most decorated player And I'm okay with that, and how good your placement was Ninth is a good placement, but I'm proud of building a team that was fun, I'm proud of how I played Not letting my mistakes get under my skin even when things looked dire. I'm proud of going undefeated My third phenomenal day one my last three day ones have been 24 wins I'm proud that my team warped the format, with multiple players having success at the following And yes, I didn't translate it into a win. But my goal isn't to win every tournament. It's to continue to improve I really care about. I don't know whether or not but I do know that So I'll leave it up to you to decide tournament was a success.