Hey everybody. Don Georgevich here with you today. And in this video, I'm going to tell you how that you were laid off from your last job. I mean, it happens at one time or another People get laid off. There's nothing you can do about it. And it's even happened to me. I've been laid off, if you can believe that I know, I'm surprised too. But it hurts. I've been there. I've been laid off many times in my career. Sometimes, for six or nine months at a stretch It gets expensive and it's really difficult And what I want to do is help you get through I want to teach you how you can explain being it doesn't sound like you were fired or that I mean, most companies, if they have a layoff, So, if you were let go because of a widespread that you can use to tell employers that it And one of the things that you really want answer as to why you were let go or why you're a result of your professional performance. You were on the job performance. You want to let them know it had nothing to In fact, you want to let them know that your Let them know that your boss thought your You have a long history of excellent performance You want to talk about how much you liked You want to talk about how much you enjoyed So, you want to make it clear that it had In fact, your personal performance was great; You have a long track record of excellent You loved working there. You loved what you did. The people liked you. The customers liked you and even your boss keep you. In fact, that's actually what happened to In my case, my boss went to his boss, which we really want to keep Don. The customers like him, he does a great job, But you know what? None of that mattered. They just simply said, This is a numbers it was 45 people. They had to let go 45 people in order for And they didn't want to do that, because that skeleton crew, but they had to do it. If they didn't let these people go, the whole So, unfortunately, I got caught up on that you too. You got caught up in an unfortunate corporate-wide And that's the message that you want to come go from your last job or why you were laid That's what you want them to understand is fact, they loved you there and they didn't And what this really does; this is sending know what? There's another company that really liked So, this is our opportunity to pick this guy Maybe we can even pay him less than what he I don't know if that factors into it or not, up a good person who's already been screened Now, here's a problem that often happens in If you were very well-paid at your last job, with prospective employer. It doesn't look good to go into a prospective paid my last job and then they had a lay off. The underlying message in that statement could made too much money. So, if you made a lot of money or if you were paid, don't let those numbers come out in You might have to taper down your salary a that you don't look too expensive. Because let's just say for example, you were and then you got laid off and you go and interview let's say 75 thousand. And you're thinking, Okay, you know what? I'll go ahead and take the 75. Problem is that employer's going to know that offer you a 75, that you're more than likely You're going to take the job at 75, you're six months or a year until you can get back going to leave that company high and dry. So, they're not going to be interested in So, keep that in the back of your mind. If you're paid above market value for your figure with them and tone down your salary worth. And by doing that, that's going to help you off into another position a little bit more past salary that you were making and holding Makes sense? Okay. So, in the end, when you rap up your answer that it was the companys fault, not that was bad leadership, that overall, the company just weren't making their numbers anymore, people in order to survive. And unfortunately, you were caught up in that. I mean, it's not your fault that there was were in sales and it was your fault. But usually, in a case like that, there's a corporate-wide layoff. There's a lot of reasons that a company doesn't I mean, maybe the competition is too tight, industry that you're in is just struggling There's so many reasons that companies layoff But most commonly, it's a downturn in business. And the business that they have today isn't year. For some reason, they're just not making the And unfortunately, good people like you, good and we have to go out, and we have to hit job. But this makes us stronger, this makes us Every time I've been laid off from a job, I've probably been laid off 3, 4, maybe 5 And I'll tell you it hurts; it hurts every I don't like it. It usually comes as a surprise, because for was great, and then they tap on the shoulder say, You know what? Things arent looking good here. We need to let you go. Pack your stuff. Here's your box and get out and that's hurts. And it's happened to you and I'm sorry for But it's going to make you better. It's going to make you stronger. You're going to grow from this. You really will. You're not going to realize that right now. You'll see the growth and the strength after it, but it will happen. I promise you that. It will happen. You just have to go out there and you have You have to keep your chin up. You have to be confident in your abilities something is going to turn your way again. It will happen. When they let good people like you go, this employer to scoop up someone else who is already they do and can instantly bring value to another And that's the kind of message that you want You're giving yourself strength. You're putting yourself in a stronger mindset Like I said, it's going to hurt now; it's situated again. But just know that you're the kind of person is only temporary. It might seem like forever, but it's only And if you put your nose to the grindstone something. And all you have to do when you get into the Don't have any ill feelings toward your last Don't throw them under the bus. Praise them, tell them how much you liked And that you would go back there again. But unfortunately, you got caught up in a Now, more than anything, you have to remember why you were let go or why you were laid off. That's not the point of the interview. The point of the interview is to talk about That's what you want to shine through. Sure, you have to address this. You have to address why you were laid off, on that. Maybe 30 to 60 seconds, just talk about what time. I was really happy there. Unfortunately, the company wasn't making their go. My boss tried to save my job, went to his It just didn't matter. They had to let people go. And I got caught up in that and then move You have to move on from that, and don't throw Just move on and start talking about the value this position if they hire you. I mean, that makes sense; right? Now, of course, if they ask you more questions your answer apart, what that's really telling buying what you're saying. They don't believe something about your story. So, if they start asking questions after you've they're not buying what you're saying. So, keep that in mind. It may or may not happen. But ideally, generally, what should happen I got laid off, and they should just accept But that doesn't happen, watch out, because And you might want to give them a little bit in your position, and everything else like Alright, that's all I have for you today my I wish you well. I understand your position; believe me on I've been there; I know. Keep your chin up, keep your nose to the grindstone. Get out there. And remember, smart people learn from their Really smart people.