This is a Peltier element. It may look like a rather unassuming hunk of material, but sandwiched between these two plates are a whole bunch of semiconductor junctions that have been carefully arranged to do something remarkable: when I apply a DC voltage across these two wires, the plate becomes cold. This is called thermoelectric cooling, With advances in manufacturing, These ones here cost less than $3 each. There's just one little issue with this technology: it's not very good. Like, at all. OK, we're gonna need some context. I'm making this video for a couple of reasons: First, you may know about my one true love, the refrigeration cycle. I adore a good heat pump and could talk your ear off about them for hours on end, but vapor-compression based refrigeration systems are They also have some environmental issues stemming from the refrigerants they use. Because of those downsides, with a regularity you could practically set a watch to well-meaning people discover Peltier elements A device with no moving parts and which makes cooling happen simply by putting voltage across it does feel like the future! That's gotta be better than all the faff Well, "better" is a slippery word. For one thing, the Peltier these are named for is Jean Charles Athanase Peltier, We've been taking cracks at this for a long time, yet it still hasn't changed the world. It is true that this form of cooling offers some unique advantages and in very specific applications with equally specific design constraints, However, the situations in which these are truly appropriate to use are very, very rare. You will absolutely understand why that is by the end, but for now you should know that the majority of products on sale are being made purely to capitalize on the fact that we just Speaking of cheap crap, The idea is you can keep a few cans of your favorite You'll be the talk of the office, for sure! All of these things use Peltier elements to cool their insides for a very simple reason: cost. These have to be cheap enough for people to pick them up impulsively. And they are - this was priced just over $30. You can't build a proper fridge that cheaply, but you can build a little plastic box And people will buy it. Look, I'm a people, and I bought it! But is it any good? Spoiler alert: No! Let's turn it on and put it through its paces! It has a power switch helpfully labeled "Off" and "Cold." That's a sign of quality, that is. Here goes nothing! [a fan spins up] But, uh, that's a lot of noise for something with no moving parts. What gives? Well, the Peltier element itself doesn't have any moving parts That side was getting cold, yes, and in this... alleged fridge which we can see getting cold in the thermal camera. But as the peltier element generates cooling on the one side, Very hot. Problematically hot. Why? Well, two reasons. Peltier modules produce cooling by absorbing heat on the cold side That's how all cooling works - energy doesn't just disappear, you have to absorb it from that location and move it somewhere else. Which is exactly what these do. They absorb heat on this side (which to us feels like coldness) But since the heat is only moving across But that's not all! The element itself creates heat as it runs. These here are rated 5 amps at 12 volts, so when running at full capacity and that's on top of the heat it's pulling from the cold side. So, to keep it from destroying itself, you need a finned heat sink and you'll also need a fan to force air across the And as we can see here, the itty bitty fridge A fan and heat sink pair isn't complicated or expensive, But noise is forgivable, the real question is how well does it work? And the answer to that question is: not! And by every conceivable metric you can imagine. For a start, you may have noticed this has no temperature settings. It's just cold or off. That's because it only promises to lower the internal temperature That's it. I appreciate its honesty, but if you know anything about food safety, Because in an office environment during the summertime where, say, the room temperature might be 75 degrees Fahrenheit, this thing will - at best - get the interior down to 45 degrees Fahrenheit which by US standards is not food safe. So... strike one. But ok, let's say you just want to cool some Well, to see how well it manages that then shoved one of my temperature data loggers in the void space between them. After running for two hours, it hadn't even gotten below 60 degrees inside here. After 12 hours it had only managed to drop to 48 degrees Fahrenheit, and after 24 hours the temperature had plateaued at about 46 degrees. Not very impressive. Somehow it got a bit of a second wind right near the 24 hour mark, which I believe happened just because the room it and we ended up bottoming out at 45.5 degrees. Which, in fairness, was about 30 degrees below the room temperature. So it did what it said it would, but it sure took ages to get there. However, I was measuring the air temperature in the center of the fridge and since the cans are all touching the sides, I found that the actual temperature of the liquid in those Chilled, I suppose, but I wouldn't want a beer that warm. So... strike two. But okay, so it's not technically a refrigerator and it takes forever to cool down and it doesn't keep things that cold and it's louder than the box implies but that doesn't mean it's not useful! And to that I'd say, you're not technically wrong! Some people use these things to keep certain cosmetic items in a cool, dry place, And if 50 degrees is cold enough for you, and you're you might actually enjoy this as a beverage cooler. But here comes strike three, and it's a doozy (and also why Peltier devices are generally terrible). If you're at all concerned with how much energy you should know that this thing consumes about 55 watts of power all the time. That's not a ton of power, no, but guess what uses less power than that? Well, lots of things but most relevant to this discussion - an actual refrigerator. This here is what I call the standard cube fridge, They're generally around $100 and while they are incredibly basic they are also actual refrigerators. We have a lil' baby compressor back here pumping refrigerant Now, it did cost significantly more money to purchase than the blue... thing, but it can also hold a lot more stuff. Including the blue fridge. By the internationally recognized metric of the real fridge wins by a lot. It'll hold 33 cans easily, and 36 if you're a little bit creative, And the blue fridge, despite only costing $30, But that's not the real issue. Remember, the blue fridge uses 55 watts all the time. Guess how much power this thing uses? Once the refrigeration circuit has stabilized, I've consulted with some math scholars who have confirmed for me But that's not all! This, because it's an actual refrigerator, And that means it doesn't run all the time. I monitored its energy use when loaded up with 15 already-chilled beverage cans, it consumed just 65 watt-hours representing an average draw of 21.7 watts. And, by the way, the room it was in during that test was a pretty warm 78 degrees. Now, electricity isn't free. So let's do a little cost comparison. The blue fridge, with its constant 55 watt draw, Going by the average cost of electricity in the US of $0.14 per kilowatt-hour, So about $66 a year. The much larger mini fridge, on the other hand, which costs $2.21 per month, or $27 bucks a year. That's $39 less than the blue fridge per year, so it doesn't even take two years of operation Seems like this blue fridge might be kind of bad! Now I could stop here, but I'm not gonna You remember this goofy thing. It's moved into my office and has an actual It's still by no means a good refrigerator - stick a twelve pack It's really not built for making warm things cold. But as far as its ability to maintain food safe temperatures, it does the job just fine. And how much energy does it use? Well, after adding 6 room temperature beverage cans, meaning on average it only pulled 40.4 watts. Which, believe it or not, is less than 55. And that's despite the rather pronounced I mean... just look at them! It's frankly ridiculous that such a tiny little "fridge" is using more energy than the comparatively gigantic one next to it. In an earlier 24 hour test when the weather was a little cooler, the red fridge consumed just 890 watt-hours in 24 hours Because it's always pulling 55 watts whenever it's switched on. That's 45% more energy spent only kind of cooling six cans. And ya know how many cans this sucker will hold? If you fill the crisper drawer, all the door shelves, It'll take it forever to make them all cold but once they get there the fridge will use roughly the same 900 watt-hours per day keeping them all ice cold. Are you starting to understand why I keep calling this stupid junk? And let's not forget the red fridge has a freezer compartment Now, as I've covered before, mini-fridges are actually some of the And by the way, I need to clear something up for the I never said the red fridge was a mini-fridge! A bunch of you heard me say that somewhere I called it little, and I called it a bit on the small side "it's much bigger than a typical mini-fridge At the very end of that video I did lump it into the category but that's as close as I ever got to calling it a mini-fridge. Methinks your confirmation bias kicked in a little early and a little strong. Maybe those 230 volts are gettin' to your head. But speaking of Americans and their giant American fridges, [banjo music starts] [said in a thick Southern accent] features automatic defrost for maintenance-free operation, is plumbed to a water line for its built-in ice maker and it has 16.35 All-American Cubic Feet of Fridge Capacity That's 461 liters in the fridge and 158 litres in the freezer. And guess which of those two fridges uses more energy? THIS STUPID THING! Yes, according to government testing (I didn't do my own, sorry about that) (which are two dings against its energy efficiency), despite being able to hold over 50 times as and which features heated defrost uses slightly It needs 1,270 watt-hours per day to attain actual refrigeration to keep six cans of la croix only kind of chilled. I ask again, are you starting to understand why I think these things are stupid junk? Side note, I used the Canadian energy stats because as I found out the last go-round, the American EnergyGuide label is very very It includes a lot more food browsing and the energy guide label for the red fridge was But even if we go with the 633 kWh annual figure, then my actual fridge uses only 35 percent more energy with a freezer on top of that. Or, below it, actually. So, why is this blue lump of sadness Because all the rest have... heat pumps! Now, very out of character for me, Kind of brief. Brief-ish. But here's why it's such a big deal: a vapor-compression heat pump like the one we can move more heat energy out of the fridge's interior That may sound impossible, and all it's doing is using an electric motor to In the case of this fridge, All the rest of its parts are just pipes and tubes The gas it's compressing is called a refrigerant. Refrigerants are a category of gasses that have really useful relationships between their pressure and their boiling point. This fridge, like most on the market today, But if you pressurize isobutane to about 80 PSI, That's much hotter than typical room temperatures, so if you feed that high pressure gas through the air will cool it down to the point that it can't be a gas anymore That condensing action releases a ton of heat energy because of a thing called but you can see this heat being released in the thermal camera. You can even make out the tubes the refrigerant is traveling through just below the surface of the fridge's outer skin. Thanks to the pumping action of the compressor, At the entrance it's purely hot gas but as it makes its way through it sheds heat energy and begins to liquify. By the time it makes it to the end of the tube, Then, that liquid refrigerant gets sent through a restriction Because of the restriction and the pumping action of the And once the liquid makes it through it finds itself inside the evaporator in fact so low that the boiling point of isobutane Even the air inside a freezer is warmer than that, That causes it to absorb latent heat energy which means it gets very, very cold. Once the refrigerant has completely boiled away and becomes a gas once more, The gas it's compressing is called a refrigerant. Refrigerants are a category of gasses that we've discovered okay that's enough of that. Key to understanding this process is that the refrigerant, That heat energy is then stored in the refrigerant. But, when we compress it and it condenses back into a liquid, Since we're in control of where that happens, In the case of a fridge, and then releasing that heat to the outside air. And the only thing we're doing to make that happen The refrigerant does the heat transfer stuff all on its own. That is how a vapor-compression heat pump is able to move The heat moving capacity compared to its power draw Now, not many people calculate the COP of a fridge, but if I assume it has a COP of 3 In other words, the 45 watts of power this fridge pulls from the wall when it's running That is why we bother with a compressor and all this piping and junk, it's just really, really efficient. And that's also why heat pumps for heating our homes are becoming such a big deal: just as there's heat to be pulled out of a freezer, And so long as the COP of an operating heat pump is over 1, But anyway, this video isn't about that. Peltier elements, because they move heat from one side to the other, And that means we can measure their coefficient of performance. But that's tricky to do because unlike a vapor-compression heat pump, their efficiency will vary wildly depending on the temperature difference it's fighting as well as how much current you're shoving through it. Remember, this is really thin. And the materials used to construct this so the higher the temperature difference between the hot and cold sides, the more heat energy leaks through the element itself And the effect there is dramatic. On top of that, the more current you try to push through this, In theory, if everything is perfect and you can run these at very low current, But that will hardly generate any cooling at all, so in practice, is somewhere between zero and very bad. And that's why this stupid little blue fridge Or that actual fridge. Or THAT actual fridge. Now, in fairness, there is more going on here. Its reliance on the Peltier effect is of course but it's also got a lot to do with its design. Any actual fridge is subject to regulations The blue toy is a toy, and honestly I could barely even detect any insulation at all! The walls all feel hollow. So I drilled some exploratory holes and determined but the door is in fact hollow. That's great. If this had more insulation it could probably get its insides cooler using less energy, I think it's actually relying on heat intrusion But any time you're using a Peltier element, even the best designs with lots of thermal insulation are going to These are just not very good at what they're supposed to do And, not for nothing, while people fixate on the harm refrigerants cause (because they have been truly awful to the environment isobutane is not really a problem at all. It's flammable which presents some practical challenges, but it has a global warming potential of only 3.3 Plus, there's hardly any of it in a fridge. Even my big one at home has a refrigerant charge of just 55 grams. So when it comes to domestic refrigerators, You may remember, though, that I did say Peltier elements I've already covered the main one - if you need some cooling as cheaply as possible, they are an option. You just have to be aware of how energy-intensive they are And sometimes it might be! If, for example, you're only using something occasionally, One example would be a portable cooler you can bring with you in the car. If it's only ever going to be used on occasional car rides, its energy efficiency isn't that critical. And portability is another area where Peltier elements can shine. The elements themselves weigh almost nothing, This little thing doesn't even weigh 4 pounds Meanwhile the mini-fridge, weighs a much heftier 33 pounds (15 kilograms). In fairness the bulk of its weight isn't from the refrigeration circuit, but it's still a pretty huge difference. And when it comes to portability, they are orientation-sensitive. The compressor that's inside this little black ball is made of metal parts and to provide that lubrication (and also cooling The compressor housing forms an oil sump, so that the compressor has the lubrication and cooling that it requires. And Earth's gravity, famously, only ever pulls things towards the center of the Earth, And, if you move anything with a refrigeration compressor in it you need to let these sit upright for at least a few hours before you switch them on (many manufacturers will tell you to wait a full 24 hours Peltier elements, You can operate this fridge however you like, though of course you need to make sure the cooling vents aren't blocked, and you'll never have to wait to switch it on after you move it. It's always ready. And Peltier elements also have one last trick up their sleeves: when you reverse the polarity, they move heat in the opposite direction! That means you can offer a device which both heats and cools quite trivially. In fact, heated and cooled cupholders in cars is one application for this in real life. You can bond a Peltier element to a thermally conductive (and use some sort of heat spreader for the other side of the element) and you can keep hot drinks hot or cold drinks cold just by flipping a switch. But, in all honesty, that's mostly a gimmick. I saw it at the auto show when I was maybe 12 But back to the present. When the design requirements of very cheap to build, using Peltier elements for cooling makes some sense. But if this is going into something that's going to be in anything close to continuous use and energy efficiency matters either for cost or scarcity reasons, it just doesn't make any sense at all. There is in fact a very good reason refrigeration And if you're looking at a product like this and thinking that might be useful, I would highly suggest you think long and hard about No, they're not going to fit on your desk (at least not easily) And these, too, can be had in all sorts of That said... I would be remiss if I didn't mention ice builds up on the evaporator over time Depending on what you're using it for that might be very rare However, there are also plenty of these out there which have and those don't need defrosting. I would honestly seek one of those out if you're looking for a mini-fridge like this. Honestly the freezer compartment in here is pretty useless and just eats up space. The only reason I grabbed this one was because it was on sale at Menards. Only $80 and you know I mailed in that 11% rebate! And speaking of cheap things from Menards, Its compressor is oddly buzzy, which is disappointing. The red fridge is actually quieter than the thermoelectric fridge, There's a good chance I just drew the short straw there and besides I don't think it would really be very annoying under a desk. But... something to mention. What actually worries me about this model is the fact that the thermostat Like, once it's down to temp it runs for 2 or 3 minutes and then stops for 3 or 4. That's usually not the healthiest thing for a refrigeration compressor. But in this case, because of the design here, Since the interior is so tiny, so if it were to run for too long at once But anyway, now we're just shopping for mini-fridges so I think I should wrap it up. The bottom line of this video is that Peltier elements are interesting and cool devices And since we've adopted isobutane as the standard to be honest you can stop feeling guilty about bringing another fridge into the world. I mean, you probably shouldn't buy one unless you actually need it (and I'm 50/50 on whether I'm gonna keep this for storing my color film But really this is just a cooler which happens to have a little heat pump in it. The steel and copper in here is the only special sauce. Ooh, I could keep sauce in here! inefficiently smooth jazz It may look like the teleprompter hasn't started but that's cuz it hasn't. Which to us feels like coldness, and reject ahh.. [clears throat] ehbutehbuDEDABAH Because all the rest have... HEAT PUUUuuUuuUUUumps. Woah that was not good. Even if we go with the 633 kilowattanggguhbuhdeblledyaghbleurf Even when it's not running at all. So the higher temperature difference between the cot and... dah. ..american energyguide label is very very pessimistic thanks to the way the depart oh... debeduh debeduh debbity duh It's flammable which presents some practical challenges especially when ssssssssssssssssshhhwhww welp. So I think we can sum this up pretty well: Peltier elements? Not cool. Oh except they are... on the one side. But not cool as in, like, good. Or hip. Or rizz. Is that what the kids say now? oh no I looked it up and that is NOT RIGHT skibidi heat pump