OK. So, tea is a thing here. It is a thing here. You guys were really into tea. The beverage and the So, afternoon tea is not just having tea, it's also a whole process of a meal and going to a really Where are we, by the way? So, this is the Hotel Cafe Royal. We are very central. We're just off Piccadilly It's one of the more historic and well-renowned afternoon-tea venues and hotels in Central London. Excited to see what they have on offer. Yeah, it's pretty nice. I actually haven't. Never mind. All right. I never drink tea. I don't really like it. I don't hate it. I just think it's weak and boring. I don't know why anyone OK. For me, I don't get it. I'm going to be honest with you. I'm wondering if we can change your mind. I'm actually not super but I will say that the places these will be some carefully served at the proper temperature, in the proper crockery as well. Joe: Great. There's a hotel here, right? Yeah, this is a five-star hotel. But there's no way Tom and wanders down here in basketball shorts and is like, &quot;Oh, let's before I head out,&quot; right? I mean this, even though people aren't just filtering through before they head out to No, this isn't like a That's what I was thinking! No, they do things slightly Joe: All right, cool. This is a place where It's, like, PS80 a head I think maybe PS70 without, so maybe you'd bring your parents or your grandparents here or something for a nice fancy London day out. Have you taken either of your parents and/or grandparents to tea yet, as a working adult who I've actually not. I Man. We've been talking about doing, like, London afternoon tea for years So I'll get her up here at some point. She's going to see this and be like, &quot;My grandson took the dude from 'Food Wars' to tea I'm out of the will, man. Joe: Yeah, you're out of the will, yeah. There goes my only shot I feel like, was it took him out of the jungle and he's all like, &quot;[grunts] I feel like that right now. It's like, oh, can I just go It's fine, we'll get a Yeah. Ooh, I've never heard a Champagne bottle open that quietly before. Harry: That was impressive. Oh, you don't want to have There's a lot of glass in this room, so. Joe: Oh yeah, look at that. Thank you. Joe: Yo! There we go. Joe: Fantastic pour. Look at that. Thank you. Do you ever just, like, wonder how we got this as our job? Joe: Yeah, this is very strange. Looks good. Thank you very much. Cheers, my man. Hey. Cheers. This is, like, eerily romantic. Harry: It's a weird vibe. And those are the same? Joe: Mm-hmm. Harry: Very light. All right, let's try some tea. Cheers. Yeah, here we go. Harry: There we go. Joe: I see. Harry: Thank you so much. So, what's this top thing? Harry: So, this is a palmier. It's a layer of, This is with a mascarpone quenelle. Ooh, yeah, oh. Get that little spread. Joe: Oh, yeah. That's really good. Harry: Mm. That mascarpone, that's beautiful. This sandwich was ... So, this is a sort of smoked Joe: OK, I'm into that. Harry: Lox, as you guys might call it. Visually, these all look beautiful. Joe: Yeah, this looks It's almost like a work of art. It's not a small amount of food, is it? Joe: No, it's not. I was surprised by how But, I mean, if you're paying 80 quid, I'd better walk out of here full. You've never heard of Joe: It could be both. Why is it a choice? Tomato bread? I don't think I've ever -- Harry: Steak on a tomato bread. I don't think I've had Harry: I'm trying the egg. Joe: I can tell you, This is fantastic. Harry: Mm-hmm? What was in here? Like, steak and tomato herb. Oh, yeah. Little steak. I missed it. These are two different teas? Yeah. So, this is the Have you had this before? Joe: No. I don't know. Harry: Do you like it? It tastes like all the other tea I've had. [Harry laughs] I can't say I agree. but it tastes almost more like a green tea or a white tea. Just is so gentle. This last one, which one's this one? So, coronation chicken, kind of invented for the But they got pieces of basically put in mayonnaise, which you then add curry powder to. This is so good. And sometimes raisins as well, Joe: I'm not getting the raisins, but, I take it back. This is the best one. Harry: Really? Harry: Ooh. Let me try some curry chicken. Joe: Right? That's fantastic. Coronation chicken is what it's called? Harry: Mm-hmm. So you wouldn't put milk or Is that kind of a faux pas? If you really wanted to add sugar to this, then no one's going to, like, physically stop you from doing that. But personally I think these that you can enjoy just as they are. I'm curious about how much Mm-hmm. So, Darjeeling is a place in India which has now kind of given a variety of tea leaf. Joe: I follow. What is -- you're saying &quot;first flush&quot;? So, that depends on when and at what stage of the So first flush is picked First. From immature tea leaves, almost, and lends itself to, again, That's a myth. That's Joe: What, the pinky up? The pinky-out thing. No one's doing that. Joe: All right. Harry: And also, don't slurp. [sighs] If I did this at my grandma's house, I'd be getting a scolding. So I have to extend that Well, apparently you're Because I'm too terrified if I did anything wrong. Joe: That's funny. All right, therefore is at a second -- At a slightly later stage Joe: Let's see how this one tastes. Oh, it's much darker. Joe: I've never seen anyone insist that you smell the top of the pot lid. I've never seen it. Is that It's like smelling the Harry: Mm-hmm. Second flush, Yeah, stronger flavor. Now you tell me the difference. You get more tannins. You know when it kind of hits feels like it's kind of Joe: OK. That's usually because That's also what stains your teeth. So that's why British people Hey, you said it, not me. But I feel like Americans, we're just constantly drinking coffee. Isn't that the same thing? Coffee has similar compounds in it, yeah. Same with red wine. You a really rich red wine and it's, again, kind of sucking moisture Joe: All right. Harry: Thank you. Delicious. We've been waiting for your opinion to settle the debate as to I don't know. This one. Harry: Sure. OK, cool. Second flush. Joe: Debated, yeah. Deal sealed. It feels more like tea. It's darker and has more How do you like that? Harry: Mm-hmm. I'm sure the experts in the industry will appreciate that insight. &quot;Ah, we never thought of that!&quot; Thank you. Ooh, OK. I immediately got a smoky I think we've got one Joe: Oh, yeah! No, no, no, just the tea. It's on purpose. Joe: Yo, God. I'm in trouble. Harry: These look beautiful. I'm a cream first guy. I can play by your rules, it's OK. Joe: Thank you. All right, we're going Smoked tea. I mean, you're from America. Had a smoked tea before? Joe: No. What were you guys talking about? So, grab a scone. It's actually more traditional Just get your thumbs kind Just going to tear bread. There you go. Although rather than horizontal, so. Oh, OK. Maybe I do need to ... Well, what's going on here? I can't ... Harry: Can we note the difference and Joe's finished scone, please? Joe: I think how I did it's fine. Harry: Nice, neat halves. Joe: Oh, God. Harry: So, there's a big debate in the UK when it comes to scones. If you are in Cornwall, you will do the jam on, and then you'll top that Yeah, that's definitely the way to do it. If you're in Devon, you will do the cream and then top with a layer of jam. No, no, no, no, fruit first, cream second. Harry: Interesting. OK. I don't even need to be if I'm putting jam and butter on my toast, jam first, butter last. You're insane. Joe: No! Jam, and then the butter or What do you mean that's -- Charlie: Jam first on toast is insane. What are you talking about? Charlie: Fully insane. In the UK, if you're making toast, you will always use butter Always. Joe: Here's how I'm imagining it. I'm imagining I go jam first on there because it's easier to get the jam off the knife by wiping it. And then when I go for the butter, I have pretty much a clean But if I do the butter first, I got a buttery knife into the jam, and there's jam in my Does that make sense? Fine. Well, the people of I'm going to be the mayor wait, do you guys have mayors? Yeah, we have mayors. OK, no, I'm going to be at the end of this trip. See, look at this. Perfect. Oh, yes. Yes! Harry: See, I'm normally the because of the logic I'll put the kind of So in my mind, that made more sense. But here they recommend so I'll play by their rules. Forget how dry scones are. That's why you guys drink so much tea. Harry: That's why you have How does the scone go with the smoked tea? Joe: Very surprised by this. I love the aroma. I love it how it smells. Harry: Mm-hmm. Certainly smoked tea is not common. Definitely not common, no. But I'm really loving it. It's like you're drinking, But I mean that in a nice way. Joe: Yeah, yeah. It's nice. Harry: It's, like, nostalgic. And then, I mean, from there for you to try some of Joe: Which one do you think? Harry: I think a nice classic British dessert is banoffee pie. Which one is that? Harry: It's these circular-tart ones. Ah, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. So I think I want to see Yeah, dude. Harry: Mm-hmm? Ooh, that's great. Oh, my God, I love that. Mm! I want to try it too now. Am I right in saying that banoffee is not a super-common I don't think I've ever even heard of it. Harry: Yeah. What is it? So, it's banana and toffee. Joe: Banoffee. So it's usually a caramel layer on top of a biscuit or pastry base, usually with slices of It's fantastic. Yeah. Mm. Joe: This is fantastic. I do think that these really nice, rare, expensive teas are being wasted on me. But so far, I'm impressed. I think the range of teas you get to try that you would never normally The service is amazing. So I think, yeah, obviously, it's a treat. Yeah. Well, you're more of a tea fan. What do you think of the teas? I've loved all of these teas. I'm going to be honest, to new possibilities for tea. You just can't get this at the store? Not the regular store. You can't find, like, I don't know. Hey, I don't know. And you can tell they really They've taken the time to curate these blends, these pairings. Well, I could stay here all day and argue about the order in which you add things to other things, but I want to check out more tea. Harry: Me too, that would be great. We've got several more teas to try, plenty more order of Joe: Can't wait. Joe: Let's do it. Harry: Houses of Parliament, Big Ben. Joe: Yeah. Harry: All set against the Joe: There it is. Harry: All right, next place. We're at the Swan at the Globe. Joe: Definitely different Harry: Yeah. So this is very much less of the kind of, like, posh-hotel style and more of a modern classic Joe: Yeah, this is a really nice place. And not only does it do but it's themed. Can you guess what it Globe. Shakespeare? Correct. So it's theater-themed? It's a Shakespeare-themed afternoon tea. Joe: OK. Oh, no. Harry: We're attached one of Britain's most iconic theaters. Shakespeare used to do all of his plays here way back in the day. It actually burned down and on the original location -- A few hundred meters down the road. Couldn't get the permissions But they've rebuilt it really faithfully. It's in the style. It's You commented on the roof on the way over. They've still got the thatch straw roof that they used to have as well. Seems incredibly unsafe. Harry: A little bit, yeah. That's why the first one burned down. But they were like, &quot;Eh, Joe: Had they learned Have you been in the Globe Theatre? Harry: I have, yeah. I've So, they have a big Joe: No. used to be a very, like, It used to be for the working class. And they would all pay which, you would go and watch the play. And then Standing for a whole play? Harry: The rich people How long is a play? You can get, like, a by which time -- Harry: Yeah. I stood for one of them, and my legs did hurt quite Joe: How long was it? Probably two hours, two and a half hours. Joe: And you're just kind like, &quot;All right, get to &quot;Just kill him already.&quot; You know what's going to Everyone dies. Just cut to the good bit. So, the afternoon tea is themed around &quot;Macbeth,&quot; I actually know that one. Harry: There you go. Nice. But they also do something that I quite like the look of, which is afternoon tea but for blokes. Oh, God. Harry: And I'm just kind of I think it's aimed maybe at or men who are a little bit too insecure about their masculinity What are some of the ... ? Harry: Well, instead of you're getting a Scotch egg, just a full portion of some haggis. Joe: All of that? You eat all of it? It seems to just be all of So I'm just kind of curious &quot;Oh, I'm a man, I don't want a salad.&quot; Yeah. I think that, I know and they want to do it, so I But anyone who gets that sincerely needs to be Britain would be a much better place if most of the men here had therapy. So I'm kind of in support of that. But let's order one just Joe: Yeah, all right, fine. Harry: Loose-leaf tea. Joe: Ah. Harry: As it should be. Joe: That's really nice. Harry: Thank you. Oh, and that catches -- that's so clever! Harry: Smart, right? Yeah, I think loose-leaf for afternoon tea, so I think Yeah. Got a castle on it. I see mine's got a deer on Harry: It looks pretty Shakespearian. Joe: Man, they weren't I like that, yeah. OK. A lot of people say that when the milk should go in first, and then you should pour the tea in. There's a few reasons for this. Personally, I think it Because if the milk's already in there, it's kind of churning itself up and becoming homogenous That would've been helpful, because I killed my wrist The thought of doing that? Harry: Look, man ... Brits have to do it every day. So it's a real workout. It's like when you used to It's just such an inconvenience. There's actually a historical reason as to why people would put Let's have it. So, back in the day, out of a fine-china cup because it's a really Really thin, delicate materials because it was the finer craftsmanship. The issue there was that sometimes they would make it so fine that if you poured boiling tea into it, it would just shatter then and there. That to me sounds like The very use of that and the fact that it explodes it makes it seem like they Harry: We came up with a solution. You could put a bit of milk in first, and then when you added the and reduces the temperature brings the temperature can then withstand the Couldn't you just wait You could have done, but at least, steeping and pouring tea when it's still pretty hot. Right, because it's and then the cup explodes because it can't handle hot Whatever. Well, I'm going to drink some with milk. I'm going to add a little milk just to ... so this is milk? This isn't cream? This is milk. It should be either semi-skimmed or whole milk. Joe: How much do I put in here? I mean, I just do a little splash. I don't think you need much. Oh, it broke. Pew! It explodes. Look at this. It's like I work here, the way I'm working to Let's try it with the milk. Very little difference, but OK. Joe: Thank you very much. Thank you so much. All right, well, what do we got here? Harry: Food's here. OK. So, I think we should probably start with some of the savories, and probably work our way up, I think, is going to be the best way to do this. Joe: Started from the Now we're here. Joe: OK. Salmon. Harry: I'll join you on the It's a classic. You can't go wrong. Joe: First hit, fantastic. That is so creamy. That's a very good sandwich. Do you like the feeling of eating, like, a little dainty finger sandwich? Joe: Yeah, I don't mind. I know you're supposed to but the way these sandwiches are cut, I'm like, &quot;Oh this is great. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: I think that's the Harry: This is an egg Yeah, no crust on any of these, with the finger sandwiches. Why is that? What is Harry: I think it's, appearance, presentation with an afternoon tea. Their trash cans back there are Harry: Just full of crust. a way to utilize the other crust, maybe make breadcrumbs or something. The ducks. They're eating well. All right. Mm. Oh, is that watercress in here? Egg and cress is a really I don't know if you have as It's coming around, My wife likes to put that on lots of stuff because it's very healthy. Good for you. Peppery kick to it. Joe: Yeah. All right, and what are Harry: Then we have the and these little beef-brioche-bun things. Let's try a tartlet first. That's so good. Mm. Thing is, haggis was traditionally made in the sheep's stomach, Like, basically, the they used the sheep's guts But they don't do that anymore. I mean, I guess someone does, but now it's almost, like, one of that they make sausages in. Right? Yeah, I think maybe might still do it the old way, but. With the spices and oats? Because this is very good. It's really tasty, yeah. I do like haggis a lot. Harry: It's good. Brioche beef sandwich. Look at that. So cute. Joe: Oh, yeah. Now, if this was the I would feel like I could easily, if I was just doing this to do it, I could easily eat this whole thing. Harry: You can clear this. I will say afternoon to be eaten at a leisurely kind of over the course of This is very good. Harry: So maybe the fact that we're just kind is helping it out. I will say, the horseradish, Horseradish sometimes tends but this one, creamy enough. You know the horse is but you also taste the beef, so. Harry: That's really good. Harry: You said that maybe to fill you up, and I guess, traditionally, that It's always been like a Joe: This is a snack? Just threw something together. They were actually invented by the seventh duchess of Bedford. The seventh duchess of Harry: Exactly like that. So, she found that she sinking feeling around 4 So she wanted basically an afternoon snack as a kind of pick-me-up and then invite some of And because she was a it suddenly became this status symbol and this kind of exclusive club, and suddenly everyone wanted in. So yeah, I think initially it did start as very much an afternoon snack. Nowadays I think maybe it has transitioned into more of a substantial meal, probably a decent-sized lunch. But yeah, it's interesting to see how it's evolved over the years. Joe: I'm ready to move on to and I'm going to do one cream, then jam; and then one jam, then cream. Harry: For science. and settle the debate once and for all. All right. Right? This is the way So, we're both Devoning it right now. Joe: OK, let's get Devoned out. Mm. I love scones, man. The other way? Harry: Mm-hmm. Official verdict? Jam, cream. The end. Harry: OK. Joe: That's what I said before, right? You did, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sticking to my guns, Joe: Wow. Do you guys eat a lot Joe: No. Joe: Muffins, doughnuts, no scones. Harry: I feel like you're This is a really good one. It's got that flaky pastry on the outside. This scone is fantastic, bro. All right, this one, I'm eyeing this one because Let's take a look at this guy. Oh, and it's encased in chocolate. Harry: So then we have some sweet treats. Joe: Let's have a sampling of that. How do you, I just bite this? Harry: I don't really know. Feel like I'm going to cut the You've confirmed that we Just like a bunch of dummies, like, &quot;Hey, use your spoon, We might be about to shatter Oh, mousse inside. Harry: Mm. Joe: I'm very impressed with this. This is all very good. Harry: Yeah. Quality so Very tasty. Joe: So, this is the gentlemen's tea set. Harry: Yes. Joe: Something geared, I'm assuming, more towards the gents. I'm just grabbing a chip real quick. Some tartar sauce. Joe: How are the chips here? Harry: Ooh, that's a great chip. Joe: Ah! OK. Scotch egg time. Mm-hmm. I love a Scotch egg. This is a fancy one. It's done well. You can tell because Joe: Yeah. Crispy on the outside. Mm. Oh, yeah. Joe: That is a fantastic Scotch egg. Mm-hmm. What is this thing over here? Harry: So, this is smoked which is a town in Joe: Strong mustardy, possibly but it's a really fantastic cut of meat. I'm going to go just the fish. Harry: I think, like, to a smoked-salmon Joe: That's very good. Harry: We know what fish We've done a video on that. You also get the same haggis tart that you get on the normal one. Joe: Nice. Harry: This scone is slightly different. It's a cheese scone with a butter instead. Oh, like a Cheddar Bay Pretty much exactly the same, yes. OK, I'm listening. And then also what you can get, which we didn't get today because we just got the breakfast tea, but you can get, instead It sounds a little bit Shakespearean. Yeah, I don't know. Are you convinced by the as a concept, or are you Joe: Yeah, I am kind of convinced. I think the a little bit off-putting. Yeah, maybe just market it as, like, a sort of savory sharing There you go. Fantastic. But it's all very tasty. Yeah, it's very good. Harry: This Scotch egg, man. I'm kind of obsessed with the Scotch egg. Right? I think it's really gentlemen's afternoon tea, teahouses in the UK in the women's suffrage movement. Joe: OK. Teahouses back in the became really popular. There They were cheap, and also they where women were allowed to kind of go and socialize unaccompanied by a man. &quot;Unaccompanied.&quot; Oh, God. Harry: It was a different you had all these women &quot;Actually, why don't we have Maybe we should ask And the kind of suffragists, were really born out of teahouses. Get it, ladies, get it! And then 150 years later, we have the blokes Overall, have you enjoyed the Swan at the Globe's afternoon tea? Yeah, this was really great. This was really great. I enjoyed, I think, everything. I don't think there's been a dish where I've not enjoyed it, Joe: Yeah, everything has What would this cost? What So, I think here it's around PS40. Absolutely worth the value. PS40. The price is nice on that, considering how good everything was. And they're feeding you here! You get a whole -- look at all this tea. Whole pot of tea. Joe: Yeah. Yeah, not bad at all. Fantastic. Do you have room for some more? I believe I do have Cool, because we've got one more afternoon-tea experience to show you. And let's just say it's OK, let's go have tea on a roller coaster. Couldn't help but notice Yeah, so this is Brigit's Bakery bus tour. This is our last stop on It is a afternoon tea on a bus. Joe: So, I'm seeing London, Harry: So, this is the A, both an afternoon tea and also, B, a sightseeing tour. We're going to go basically for about 90 minutes, And of course we have Joe: This is great. Harry: Yes. It's a lot to get acclimated to. So right now I'm still just The food was already sitting here.&quot; This is for four people. Sorry to break the fourth wall, but there are two cameramen I think at this point we're close enough that they can probably see each other. Joe: OK, great. So we had to book a table for four. We couldn't book a table for two. Harry: We did, yes. We're also going to be They have a range here. I'm probably just going A few things, obviously, What's another tea that that I haven't had? Harry: I mean, you could try Earl Grey. It's a slightly more herbal, fragrant version of a black tea. Oh, there's a jasmine Harry: It's really up to you. Harry: They have a range. It's fine right there. Harry: Shove it towards you. Obviously, the hot in a screw-top cup because we are moving. We have these little cup which is cool, but we do not They do make a point of being like, &quot;Yo, I'm giving you a cup of boiling water, so keep that lid on there.&quot; Jesus. I will say that waiting for us when we got on the bus. It was. [sighs] I like to think it has but I'm sure it'll be tasty. Bit of ham and cheese. Joe: Got mini quiches This is the biggest of the This is almost a regular quiche. If that's a mini quiche, I Yeah. This is a bakery everything tastes like a I'm very impressed with how Yeah, I kind of like the and see people walking down, like, &quot;Yo, what's up, peasants? And I love how festive the pastries are. Harry: I think you're right. I think because this is operated by a bakery, it does seem like there's placed on very This is maybe the best-looking Harry: Not to say that nice pastries, but these are like, they've been made by a There might be, like, How's the pretzel bun? Harry: I can recommend There's a non-seeded one over here. No, I don't mind seeds. Harry: Want to get a bit of that? The chew and softness Joe: Wow. On the actual pretzel bun itself. Joe: That's really good. Oh, my gosh, it's so good. I love this. Got some police next to us. Joe: That's a police van right there. Those guys are having a very different experience Got a nod up from him. He's like, &quot;He just took a Harry: &quot;Arrest that man.&quot; Joe: Yeah, this is great. I Harry: It's really fun. I do think -- and this is or the food or the experience -- it is what right now? Harry: About 3 o'clock. Traffic's a little tight. It's a little busier part of London, a lot more stop and go. He's driving right into this crowd. Harry: Big Ben's right there. Pedestrians in London do They don't give a damn. I think most of it is in Central London, so I would expect a fair But look, I mean, we're already going straight past the What goes on in that building? That's the Houses of Parliament. That's where we are governed from. Joe: Ah. Harry: It's like our All right. Really, like, we've started We're hitting some key sites early on. I think we just hit a key person. Jesus. This food is fantastic, though. Harry: It's really good food. Do you want to move on All right, let's go. Harry: Mm-hmm. Ooh, is that, like, marshmallowy? Got a little something A ginger cookie. Harry: Let me get some of that. Oh, this is really good. Waiter: Here's your breakfast Oh. Oh, it's got the bag in there. Harry: So, actually, right now. Now, Routemaster buses are an iconic part of British culture. They're like a British design icon. They came in in 1954 and were Not to say they weren't So, you might have noticed that we got on from a platform at the back. Harry: That was the only way the idea being that it was You could basically just The issue was that some people took that a little bit too literally. Some people were trying to, or jump off from a moving I think there were injuries reported. So sadly, they were gradually withdrawn, and they sort of disappeared I think I still see these buses around. So, they kind of tried to bring them back. It was when Boris Johnson He brought back the new Routemaster. They do have ways to get on and off at the back and in the middle as well, but the door is closed You can't just be jumping I love the idea of someone who's like, &quot;I'm just going to jump out right here.&quot; Like, literally jump off right here. That's, like, at 40 miles an hour. However you guys measure distance here. I don't know, 40 kilometers a stone. You know. Harry: We still do miles per Again, we've decimalized so badly. I think that's just a better idea, that it's harder to jump Harry: They made a few and then I guess as they there's still buses in circulation, but they're not used officially anymore. So some of them went up for sale and have been bought by places like this. But there's a double-decker Harry: Yeah, all over the Joe: Oh. Joe: I see. I see, I see. We're very much still don't get me wrong. They're great. OK, I get the Routemaster, yeah. OK. So, we're shooting this in This is actually a and this is a British Christmas cracker. Have you done one of these before? No. What is it? So, traditionally done around Christmas -- Is there crackers in this? No, sadly not. I don't know where the name came from. I guess because, well, I'll show you. They're cracking, mate! Harry: Give me one end. I take this end, give it a little squeeze, and then we're going to pull. All right? Is it going to make a noise? So then it makes a No. I'm sorry, everybody. Harry: All right, three, two, one. [cracker pops] Hey. So you win. You've got the -- and if you look inside Oh! So you get a little paper disposable plastic toy in there as well. Oh, I got a frog. Ooh, it jumped out. Harry: [laughs] He's lively. Yeah. And then, OK. Harry: And usually a joke or a trivia. OK, joke. &quot;What begins and has tea in it?&quot; Teapot. Ah. Joe: What do we got here? Harry: And you get a So that's what's in a Christmas cracker? I always thought that that they were a fancy way of wrapping, like, there's crackers and you guys had this big ... No, no, no. I need to rip mine open. That was a good pop. I got a fake mustache, which you're supposed but it's kind of painful. Joe: That's for a little nose. The issue I have is that and so sometimes these Look, I can tuck my ears into mine. Harry: You've got some wiggle room there, whereas if I do it, Joe: Oh, wow. Yeah, you I got a cranium on me, man. Look at that, it's stretching! Yeah, because I've got such a big brain. Would you like my joke? Yeah, what do you got? Oh, it's bad. &quot;How do sheep Baa humbug? &quot;Merry Christmas to ewe,&quot; but it's spelled like E-W-E. Harry: I actually prefer yours, so. Joe: Thank you. Joe: God. I gotta punch these up, baby. Call the boys. We'll do a jam. We'll do a writer sesh. &quot;Food Wars: Christmas a store near you. So, we've had three excellent Joe: Yeah. Very different experiences. Hard to draw direct comparisons other than the fact that I think the food's been Had a nice mix of sweet and savory. But we've had, you know, we've had a themed experience, and, of course, a tour-bus experience. You're doing it with this mustache on? I was going to try and do that for as long as I could until you noticed. Joe: OK, OK. Harry: So, we did the Hotel Cafe Royal. Joe: All right. Very fancy, very nice. A bit stress-inducing. Definitely felt out of place there. Felt like royalty's supposed to be there, and instead they got us. For that, it felt like this is the finest way to do it. This is a traditional Londoner teatime. I liked how the guy knew everything. He was really funny and I really liked that. We went to the Swan at the Globe. Joe: On to the Swan at the Globe. It was more of a restaurant experience, but everything that they brought us I thought was delicious. I enjoyed the tea very much. I thought that the food Everything tasted amazing. That one was definitely a lot of fun. I just, that environment, That was more of the modern and personally, that Sure. And Brigit's bus. Joe: This is so much fun. I wish I was doing this with I think also this would be fun to take my nieces and Love that I'm doing two things at once. You know, I'm going to an afternoon tea and I want to do sightseeing. OK, knock them out on one thing. Dinner and a show. Each of them were three different, So for me, all the food was incredible, all the tea was incredible, all the experiences are incredible. So what I'm going to pick has and one that more speaks to an experience that I would enjoyed the most personally. OK. And if you had to I loved the Swan at the Globe. I thought that was absolutely I liked that more it felt You can have a couple drinks. So out of all of them, that spoke more to what I enjoy doing. But every single one of these is awesome, including this one. I'm I know it seems like I'm so I'm kind of just like, ugh. I think you've summarized it well there. Again, I think it's less a and more a case of just, like you say, picking the one that I think I agree. The Swan was a really good I actually did really but mostly because where I could take, like, my grandma and have a really nice, But even this, I think, would This is so much fun. Have we brought you and I guess tea as a drink itself? This may be a controversial opinion, but this is the best Harry: Interesting. Harry: Yeah. Harry: You like Earl Grey? I guess I like Earl Grey. Harry: You like Earl Gray. Yeah. This is fantastic. You have brought me around on tea. I'm probably going to but no, maybe I'll surprise myself and start drinking a little more tea. I'll take that. All right, cheers, man. Joe: Cheers, mate. Just gentlemen out on the town, you know? Couple of blokes. What's the blokes bus? That's like, it's just this, but they give you a can of Stella Artois instead of the prosecco.