This is truck driver Marcin Tokarski from the company Anhalt Logistics in Rehm-Flehde-Bargen, Schleswig-Holstein. The 40-year-old is currently preparing for the next tour with his new DAF XG with 480 hp and 13 liter engine. To make it easier for drivers to get in and out and have more space, the XG's cabin has been completely redesigned. The XG has been extended by 160mm at the front and 280mm at the rear. The wheelbase was also adjusted by 200mm. DAF is the first truck manufacturer to implement all the options offered by the new EU regulations regarding cabin size. Really created space! For Marcin, who has been driving for Anhalt Logistics for seven years, this truck is actually a dream in every respect. Even in the cockpit it is noticeable that everything is digitalized. But how does the new one actually drive? Well, it's much more comfortable for me than the old generation XF. Because, first of all, I can say this, it's much quieter. This is because he doesn't have a traditional mirror, but a camera. Then you notice that there is less wind noise. So, he has a lot of digital tools. You can then also adjust the speedometer to what you want to use most, such as pressure in the brakes. Tank filling too, you can set it in percentages, you can then set it in bars. You can control many things from the steering wheel. I think this is really cool, a big step forward. But what's even more important for Marcin is that when he 's driving the DAF So he has room in the hut. It's about the driving and living comfort in the cabin with almost two meters of headroom and, above all, the many well thought-out details. There is space here, really endless space. The driver's cab is much, much larger than in the old XF. I sleep here, for example the bed is much, much wider than it used to be. The bed is electronic. You can set it however you want. Reading books, or watching videos, if you're using your laptop you're watching films, etc. I can stand here completely and I'm standing and I still have space above my head. I am over 1.80 meters tall. And as you can see, there is still almost ten centimeters of space. Where it used to be in the old DAF was not possible. The center tunnel is also deeper. That's why we have more space. But there is also space during the break. You can also put a plate like this here and use it as a place to put computers, etc. And also, as I told you briefly, the seat for swiveling. You can now turn the seat and you can really easily take advantage of your breaks from this position. From my side, from my colleagues, from what I hear from colleagues: There really, really is a lot more space here. Anhalt Logistics has just purchased one hundred new DAF XGs. As a logistics company operating across Europe with around 600 transport units and 550 employees, the company has five locations. The focus is on the transport of liquid products and combined transport. The comfortable cabin size of the new DAF XG has long proven to be an effective tool for driver loyalty. It was also right to purchase the trucks with the 480 hp engine because they are also impressive in terms of their cost-effectiveness. It has become much easier to attract drivers with the XG. On the one hand, of course word gets around. The drivers talk to each other, hey, you can drive a DAF XG at a stop. On the other hand, if there are events somewhere, we drive there with the And of course you can win drivers through that. A manufacturer always promises a lot of things at the beginning, like ten percent fuel savings and so on. We were skeptical at the beginning, but we were completely convinced. And also that we took the XG with 480 hp and not 450. You always think, more power, more consumption. No, it's not like that. The consumption is top. And we are, yes, satisfied that what was promised was also kept. The transport company was founded in 1969 by Horst Anhalt, who is also known for his love of classic trucks. The decision to equip a large part of the fleet with DAF trucks was made in the 1990s. The decisive factors were the high reliability and robustness of the DAF trucks. And the good relationship with the manufacturer itself. A positive development that has continued to this day. On the one hand, it is of course a business decision. We started with DAF over 20 years ago. And then little by little the fleet became more DAF-heavy, with more and more DAF tractors. The advantage, of course, over time is that, yes, you can build the workshop economically on it and have spare parts on site. The employees are trained on the DAFs. We can carry out the work here completely ourselves and are not necessarily dependent on others. And so an intensive relationship of trust has developed between Anhalt Logistics and DAF over the last few decades, as a result of which the Schleswig-Holstein company even took on the maintenance work on the trucks itself. Here it was above all the solid technology that made the difference. But the proximity to the manufacturer has made many other things possible. Let's remember the space-creating function of the steering wheel, which truck driver Marcin Tokarski demonstrated. This is actually not a random idea, but a development from practice for practice. And the Anhalt Logistics company is proud that they, of all people, contributed to the development of this innovation. It was a question that DAF asked: How do we create an optimal workplace for the driver? The steering wheel is a central object in the driver's cab. And in this area I relied on experiences from the past, where I myself learned to love and appreciate what possibilities there are in the agricultural sector to achieve the optimal steering wheel setting and adjustment so that I can carry out all of these daily tasks can fulfill that. And so in the end, with the new development of the DAF