Everybody is just rushing Where are the NCOs? Where are the officers guiding doing their best to keep people together? I'm Alexander Watson. at Goldsmiths, University of London. I'm an expert on the First World War. I've written three books. And today we're going to in First World War movies In August 1914, cavalry plays We tend to think of the First World War as being entirely static, but The Germans storm through Belgium, and they occupy a large Some of the cavalry was This was one of the things Key omission from how are presented is that And that's a big mistake. Because while British cavalry like they're portrayed doing here, they were also trained to scout, and they were also trained So they would dismount, and they would be able or work around to the flank of a position. So they've got multiple roles, and that was actually So this idea that the film is that cavalry are obsolete at this point is actually not true. All right, so this is the point that everything gets ridiculous. What they have done is they've and they've put them in a And there are six machine guns here. Six machine guns was the allowance for an entire German regiment in 1914. German regiment was around 3,000 men. So this is the number of machine to support 3,000 men. In reality, in 1914, you for every 2 kilometers of ground. You wouldn't have behind three trees. This is the literal As a cavalryman, if you're confronted by an entire regiment's or even just one, which why would you keep on charging towards it? That makes no sense. What you would do is you or to the right. You would get into cover. There's plenty of forest here. And then you would use your to dismount and try and take these machine guns from the flank. Also, as well, cavalry in a forest, if you charge into a forest on a horse, you're going to break the horse's legs. This is a really, really bad idea. Three out of 10? This is a great opening. It's really good to see the smoke that they've got in no man's land. This is 1916. The French infantry In order to screen their infantry from machine-gun fire, rifle fire, the French would lay smoke. They'd put smoke shells into no man's land so that their troops could come forward without easily being seen and And we've got an officer who This guy is desperately trying to maintain control of to show which direction they need to go. It's great to see. It's so often missed from So, the uniforms in this And what he's wearing on his The French army was to introduce proper head And that was because head injuries in the first year of really serious strain on manpower. And so having this head protection lowered injuries, lowered fatalities. It's a pretty light helmet. A bullet would penetrate it. It could protect soldiers from shrapnel. This is an Adrian helmet This is a medical corps helmet. The badges on the front were different depending on what arm You can see this is a medical corps one because it's got a Key thing is the ridge. The ridge, it turns out, was really useful for protecting against for, like, concussion. I think it was deliberate. I think they were basing it but it turned out really, really well. So, this attack is The men are trying to keep spaced out. And that was really, really important. All armies told men, when you go forward, you need because if you clumped together, then you presented a perfect So keeping spaced out was a The other thing that you see is using the terrain for cover. They're going in and out of the dips in order to move forward and protect themselves and the really that's coming down on them. The one thing that it misses, it's got the French infantry And by this point in the war, by mid-1916, the French had already I'd give this an eight out of 10. We don't think of watches but they really, really If you were going to have a everything had to be synchronized. The first wave needed to go over together, followed then afterwards But above all, you needed to synchronize with the artillery behind you. That's something that a that infantry didn't They acted in combined arms So getting that timing right And we see that with the That's a great start to the scene. Officer: You can't possibly Are you bloody insane? There is some historical The battle of the Somme, huge battle. Half a million casualties on both sides. Took place in the second half of 1916. And the Germans really suffered badly. And they decided to withdraw their lines back to stronger positions in early 1917. And the backstory here is that the British army is pursuing them. This is a temporary trench, so that's why there aren't any sandbags. It's simply been dug to This is meant to take place on the Somme or just beyond the Somme battlefield. And the ground there was really chalky. It was known to be white and chalky, and they've really represented Officer: No, no, no, no! I never understand why In a First World War trench, you've got kind of two mounds of earth, one behind it and one in front of it. The one in front of That's the one that The other one is called parados. And that was actually than the parapet, and the reason for that was that if a soldier put and if there wasn't any earth behind him, then he would be -- He'd be easily seen. Now, there's going to be an attack, and all of these troops are Why doesn't he just There's nobody there. He could simply run unimpeded He'd even get some cover from the guys going over the parapet. If you send your men forward everybody is going to die. They didn't send men over like this. The guidelines that the is that when you advance, you need to advance with the artillery, and you have what's And what a creeping barrage which would pummel the ground and move forward at set times. And they did that in order of any defenders, so you and then moving into the trenches to keep the defenders' heads down, which you desperately needed to do if everyone wasn't going to So, by this point, April 1917, you're going to only go forward with a creeping barrage, generally. You're not going to do it any other way. And that's just absent from here. Everybody is just rushing If they actually get to the German lines, which they're clearly not going to do because they haven't got but what are they going Where are the NCOs? Where are the officers guiding doing their best to keep people together? The helmets that they used and they were above all designed to protect against shrapnel. Because if you think about the position that these soldiers are in, they're actually defended by the trench itself. Trenches really were very It's only when soldiers leave the trenches that they become extremely vulnerable. Where they are vulnerable, though, is on the top of their heads. And so that was why you had this kind of battle-bowler-type arrangement, and the rim around it to That was why they were designed like this. I'd give it a four. [officers shouting] You hear them shouting in And then this machine gun opens up. And that seems to me very, very plausible. And then they switch on a searchlight, which was pretty common You'd have searchlights to illuminate the front of your defenses. This is representing the of early 1917. And this is a unit called They were a nationalist and that served in the operating up on the north in what today is Latvia. And this was a really marshy area, so it wasn't possible to This is the eastern front. This When the Germans took it in 1915, what they did was they built a long wall made of sand and wood, And you can see that really well. The other aspect of this is that when the Latvian rifles attacked this part of the German line, they had to get through the barbed wire. You had to find a way without blowing the barbed And what we're seeing here is what the British army would've which was like a pipe bomb. It was pushed underneath the wire, and then it had a fuse going And that's what these They've got these hardened to try and protect them from bullets. And it's their job to light the fuse, which will then send off the wire. You see this wave of riflemen coming out disguised in snow camouflage. They would've been bedsheets or any white material that The other thing that's is it reminds us that the a point of really huge activity. If you want to take an area actually you can't do The only point at which you can do it is when the marsh freezes over. And that's what happened in January 1917. And that was when these and attacked this German line. They could suddenly get over the marsh. What you see is the main character, he's dropping to the ground, he's taking cover behind a corpse as the machine gun moves towards him. And then you see a line one after the other, from right to left. And it's clear that the machine gun is traversing back away from him. And he leaps up, and he moves to the left away from the machine gun's fire. And this is what gives him the opportunity to throw a hand grenade And it's a really neat way of showing how an experienced combat troop would be very alert to what was going on, to where the machine gun was firing. And veteran troops did learn It's part of the learning process that goes on in the First World War. It's just such a nice human detail that they've managed to get in part thanks to the snow but then they can't because it's icy. And so they're using in order to carve some You can see the desperation there. And it's just this tiny little detail that just makes this scene I think this is fantastic. I give this a 10. So, this clip portrays between a Russian destroyer and a German armored What's hinted at in the clip but what maybe doesn't come is that these two ships are There's literally nothing could have done to hurt this cruiser. Some of them were equipped with torpedoes, and that potentially could have done. But as becomes clear in this film, this particular ship So there really isn't any defense that this ship has got The cruiser has multiple guns, but the biggest on it, 21 centimeters. If those 21 centimeters it's going to sink, or at the very least it's going to have its It's going to be a huge amount of damage. Huge German shell hits this gun tower, and it's not even that The gun is still in working order. There's nothing realistic You'd be very unlikely to The German armored the Russian ship before It is true that the Friedrich If a German ship hit a mine, but down near the waterline. There would be no reason that they've produced on That doesn't make any sense. There was an explosion, but It didn't explode in flames. And in the end, the Germans managed to This idea that there was a and the armed cruiser, I'll give it a two. The battle itself is pure make-believe. Thanks so much for watching. If you want to see more click on the link above.