Here are five mistakes diyers make when stripping Just a quick note. I am going to say the word stripper so do your best to keep I'm talking to you, Beavis. he said. The first mistake is rock and roll. Rock and roll will never die, but your strippers need to listen Rocking back and forth as you're and nicks in your wire to that weaken the wire snapping at that weak spot. I've seen this happen multiple times. Similarly, if you need to twist or roll your cut through the insulation, you'll definitely want to I've seen people spin their the conductor to get a full, clean cut. If you have to do that, you're either using the wrong gauge for sharp wire strippers. Ideally, you should just be able to clamp wire and pull the insulation off. It's not so much of a perfectly clean It's more like you're breaking as you pull it off, and that's actually ideal. The strippers won't typically cut every but a good pair of strippers so you can easily pull the right off the end. The second mistake is using dull trying to strip wires with older, like these ones that were clearly forged Kind of like trying to cut It's frustrating, and it might result in changes in behavior, agitation, Over time, the blades on your wire and when that happens, Now, you can sharpen them somewhat, A basic set of wire strippers so toss those hand me downs and get yourself a pair of newer, sharper wire strippers that can Other examples of using the wrong tools this, these, this, and certainly this, even though I was able to get Hey, I've been working on something and it has to do with just If you're a homeowner, you should know a little a little bit about h vac, your drywall, So if you want to learn a little bit on and get early access to that, head on over to powerhomeowner. com. Enter your email and I'll keep Thanks so much. Mistake number three is simply using the either because you're using should be using the stranded, or vice versa, or you're just not sure Now, wire thickness gauges are your friends, like this one that you That said, you can save a few bucks by just as a wire thickness gauge. To do this, just squeeze them tightly together where then feed the bare wire through the I put a few tips together that identify your wire gauges. Number one, most wire sets have their gauges so check there first to On most Romex cables, so you may have to hold it up to Number two, seeing as how that's what's most it uses the same gauge wire for in certain products. So you may be able to just use your of all of the wires by testing I spent some time digging into the the general rule that Romex abides by So 10, 14 gauge, those use the same gauge wire for ground as they do for the hot and neutral and anything eight gauges and thicker. So eight, six, four, and down. Those use a smaller gauge ground In the end, your best bet is to check the gauge stripping anything to verify Now, the third tip to check for your the topic of Romex wiring, back in '01, they started using a color convention to have based on the color of the jacket. The color codes are on screen here, yellow, and black to help distinguish Remember, that this convention so it's entirely possible that two thousands or before, these color codes might not apply. Now, our fourth and final tip for identifying US and you're kind of in a pinch, you can use a nickel or a dime. Here, a twelve gauge wire is about A 14 gauge wire is about the Now, for our fourth mistake. Stripping too much or too little of issues in almost every situation. For example, if we strip too much wire we're going to end up with the back of the receptacle, which increases the likelihood of the causing a short circuit. This is unfortunately a mistake I sparks and felt the effects of this. Not very fun. On the flip side, if you remove too little that decreases the amount of wire has with the terminal, which increases resistance, potentially leading to more and the electrical fire To avoid either of these situations, look for a strip gauge on the device like this one on this receptacle, Use that as a guide to make sure you've and you'll be in good shape. On this topic, automatic wire strippers like these because not only do they work with a with no adjustments or work on your part, but you can also set the strip gauge Just set the stop depth, and squeeze the trigger. Easy as pie. I use these types of strippers because despite them being a they work so well and so quickly, Which brings us to our final mistake. My goal this year is to and I'm really getting close. I hope you can help me out by below if you don't want to. I totally get that. Hopefully you're getting Either way, thanks so much. Mistake number five is It's not uncommon to see someone using wires to remove the insulation or jacket. If youre super careful with this, but it is way risky, especially if youre stripping Ethernet cable or other When I was finishing my own basement time to do the finish electrical, I naively decided to remove the utility knife to slice the jacket I then pulled the loose sheathing back for a job well done. Well, what I didn't realize at the time the wires inside by scoring Obviously, but I remember on one when I went to wire up the switch, one of the hot black wires literally on it because I had unknowingly When removing the Romex sheathing. If you want to hate your life, try stripping a three quarter inch into the back of a deep box, and then it's all crammed in there to it to extend it with a pigtail. It is a mess. It doesn't go well. Trust me. If only I knew about wago that would have made it much simpler, So learn from younger Nils's mistakes. When you're stripping the use one of these options instead. Nope, not today. Option one, as it were, or in the same direction as the wires Then open the sheathing Then very carefully cut the a blade or some wire cutters, being careful not to cut into any Option two, use a handy desheathing tool There's a slitting tooth inside of and you work it up the wire It even has a jacket cutter for jacket up inside the box, not to mention a wire stripper, and a hole for making wire hooks. Pretty handy. My new favorite way to do this is to these that are meant for cutting the Then all you have to do is pull It comes off in one piece without Definitely my favorite way to go. Lastly, you can use some universal wire incredible job of pulling the sheathing like Romex, including thicker Romex and even On the topic of wire strippers, you might be surprised at how many eight features built right Do you know all eight? Click here to find out. I'm Nils with learn to DIY. Thanks for watching.