- When I think about like the for me, you know, it's and creativity and all that stuff. But I cannot underestimate by anxiety and fear. (audience laughing) - You and I are both very self-hating. - A lot of the things that of negative motivators, misery, (cameras snapping) self-consciousness, I and a lot of fear. (audience cheering) I worry all the time to be the final one I'll But you know, when I meet who have kind of forged their own paths, they have the exact same story. (paparazzi talking indistinctly) And it just occurred of what like great (lively music) They're amazing at their they think outside the box, that the next time is Once you're able to kind of as motivation, as care, you worry less and are motivated more. (dramatic music) Hi, my name is Jesse Eisenberg. I'm known as an actor. I also write and direct and I forgot the other thing because I was... Sorry. (beep) Hi, I'm Jesse Eisenberg. I'm an actor, writer, and director. And the most recent thing I on a movie called &quot;A Real Pain.&quot; (dramatic music) Probably it's important to dispel the myth that actors are full of themselves and you know, they're in a movie so they must be so confident all the time. As an actor, I've had of being a public person because strangely, I often do kind of receive criticism in places that I never expected to receive it. Sometimes people say to me on the street, &quot;Hey, man, I thought you And they say it as like almost an apology and it makes you feel even worse. You know, you care like anybody how the thing is going to be received. And sometimes for an actor because it's being (playful music) If you're somebody with the inclinations that I have towards self-doubt, what I have created was that allows me to work at my best. It sounds strange, but I don't watch the movies I've been in. I don't read any reviews I go so far as to not bike past with movie advertisements 'cause it makes me (playful music) And I know it sounds a little unusually difficult and I should I should just hold the tarantula bike past those movie posters. But the truth is I found by not thinking about that with something that I can't control. Maybe it comes from a but to me it's the only way (playful music) (pensive music) I've recently started directing. I've directed two movies now. Being in this kind of new strange place of like being a manager has not been the easiest I realized pretty quickly in the traditional sense of lead a group into battle. My advantage was not so about the thing we need to get and screaming at people but I am very good at and how to kind of get the best from them. So if you're somebody who feels like me, somebody who feels like to lead an army into of the wonderful leaders The best leaders I worked of like the quiet, sweet sweet, quiet, relatable ways. The leaders that you like working for are probably not the kind of who's the loudest in a room. I imagine what you might that you really liked working for are probably a lot like you. How did they do it? How did they excel? I've only directed two movies and I've interviewed for production design, for for costumes, for cinematography who have done 40 movies in their position. And I've done one or two. Most people I'm working about their jobs than I do. And so it's important and to kind of be humble, and also be able to for other people to excel. I am a person who very with somebody who has as good I am not somebody who wants to be right, and that has motivated me to find people who are very collaborative. That kind of humility, to learn from others and to others has just been You learn very quickly in acting class that acting, like almost requires reacting to the other person, to the collaborator's intention and performing in conjunction with it. The movie I just finished directing, the two leading characters and the wonderful actor Kieran and is an absolute that I don't even know because I got to see him improvise in these incredibly And yet it was very often not and not the thing that I had So theoretically, I should in the world to tell him exactly how I want it to be performed. And I discovered I think on the second day that that was not going to be effective. That when I kind of try to lived in, loose performance, When you're acting in a to stand on like a little mark so that it makes the lighting and it makes the camera framing for all the other actors appropriate. He wouldn't stand on marks. And when I asked him to that we did, it would stifle him. He would work so much and when he was loose, When I was thinking about of the movie, the first is that this character is That is so much more important in the exact place. Sorry, how can I then link this back to something bigger and better? (bell dinging) What I've discovered is that to engineer the other person's work. You should help them achieve And so as a director, I was to fully live in this role, to say what was on his mind. And it made the movie so much better and it made this set just this kind of wonderfully enriching, fun place. (lively music) Sometimes it might be intimidating to think about collaborating with somebody who might be more successful, more experienced in their field. The first movie I directed starred one of the greatest film actresses of all time, Julianne Moore. And I had never directed a movie before, but I had acted in so many movies and I know what I wanted from a director. What I love to have as from my boss, from the to really pay attention to what I'm doing and give feedback on that. And when I was directing again shockingly astonishingly I was so intimidated to do exactly what I always want directors to do. I think the reason I was was because I thought she would see me for the fraud that I must be. And so for the first week, I kind of like stayed away from her. I didn't know if she or to ask her to try And finally, when I just like in my face, I realized, no, that's exactly what, of course, she wants. That's what I would want. And so I started giving her some notes and we had the most fun. She argued back with me, of course, sometimes when she disagreed, and wonderful, an important And so what I discovered is of intimidation with a colleague I think Julianne Moore I think she's a better I think she's smarter but those thoughts were not very helpful. The helpful thoughts were, for this scene and this and I'm going to tell And that's like so much and such a more fun partnership Sorry, is that okay? Or did I say okay? Yeah? (lively music)