The strength of a nation's currency is based on the strength and the American economy Accordingly, I have directed to take the action necessary against the speculators. I have directed Secretary Connally of the dollar into gold except in amounts and conditions of monetary stability and in the best interests August 15th, 1971, will stand as an important event In fact, hundreds of years from now, The sun rises today Commuters wake up and travel Farmers tend to their crops. Construction workers Today is a day like any other, or is it? In 2008, the world experienced one of the greatest financial turmoils Markets around the world started crashing, once thought to be invincible, Governments responded quickly, and stimulus packages in an effort and it worked. The global economy recovered much quicker and soon it was back to business as usual. Yet, something still isn't quite right. A growing sense of unease In the world of finance, cracks have started to appear. There's angst out there, and I think they would tell you, but this just doesn't feel normal to me. The government's running Why isn't the economy improving? The government's going Why don't I have a job? Why is the unemployment rate I even think that number is understated. A lot of people are feeling unsure concerned that something terrible We're told that of a few years ago has been fixed. However, what if the crisis isn't but rather the symptom At Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, delegates from 44 allied and associate of the United Nations Monetary Our story begins in 1944. With World War II coming to an end, the allied nations met at Bretton Woods, to create a new financial system which would stabilize the world With America poised to enter the US dollar was chosen The Bretton Woods System was created at the Bretton Woods Conference and rather than using gold as the means as was the case the dollar was going to be used. The dollar was chosen Under this new system, countries agreed and the US dollar would be tied to gold This meant countries around the world could trade their currencies which they could then exchange for gold. This created a system where all currencies To avoid the logistics of shipping when countries did exchange it was usually stored safely in the US. Under the Bretton Woods system, or your dollars for gold now only apply We began to run budget deficits. We were running the Great Society program and we were fighting a war in Vietnam, we were running these deficits, They said they wanted gold, and then it started to spread. With all the new spending programs other countries became concerned than it had gold reserves. They started exchanging their dollars as they felt than the gold that backed it. To prevent this outflow of gold called for an emergency suspension I have directed the Secretary to take the action necessary against the speculators. I have directed Secretary Connally of the dollar All of the problems are a direct result of the decision made to abandon a fixed link back to gold. What gold did and provided discipline Under the old system, then what would happen until there was a balance again. Well, without any gold backing, If you look at, for example, the US has never run a surplus. Ever since we went off the gold standard, Good times, bad times, What led Nixon he claimed it was temporary. We've been waiting 40 years We ran up huge deficits during the 1960s. We had the guns and butter economy where the government was simultaneously In addition, we were funding and the whole space program. We were creating more money A lot of our foreign creditors saw this rather than their Federal Reserve notes didn't have enough gold By removing the link between gold President Nixon created a system where This is what is known as a fiat currency. Fiat currency is a currency except government promises. The word fiat is a Latin word, and it basically means the currency If people have confidence and if there's enough government force for a period of time until people There is no nation on this planet We all use currency. There will come a day Money is a medium of exchange, is that it's always something Until the modern age, well, we don't need anything all we need is a political decree. We can say this is money, Now money has a new characteristic, there's this same concept in place and that is that governments of no value to be money, That's really the problem It's destroying With currencies no longer backed their value was measured only Because countries could make products cheaply, countries devalue their own currencies Every paper currency If the dollar goes down, and they try and intervene to ensure that the impact What is a Ponzi scheme? A Ponzi scheme that promises high returns Sounds too good to be true, right? That's because it is. In a legitimate investment scheme, the money invested typically through low-risk ventures Over time, this generates enough income their initial investment, A Ponzi scheme, on the other hand, How does it accomplish this? Instead of using the money a Ponzi scheme to pay off the previous investors. Because these new investors the scheme must then find to pay them off. All the while, the creators from each group of investors. Because a Ponzi scheme it must constantly bring in larger groups Eventually, or large numbers of previous investors and the scheme collapses in on itself. By this time, have siphoned off tremendous amounts while the investors are left out of pocket Without a fixed link to gold, the US Treasury has been able to borrow When the US government needs money, it takes out a loan The Federal Reserve and in return These IOUs are called government bonds. With the money the US government Meanwhile, the US Treasury work closely together where foreign central banks, and even individuals Why wouldn't they? Loaning money to the US government However, if the loans are spent on bills where does the government get the money and the interest that is charged on it? Is investing in a US government bond of a giant Ponzi scheme? The Federal Reserve System There's no question about it. They go through the appearance and the governments agree This money comes into being, they create it for that purpose You understand Central banks just make it out of nothing of a computer and the Treasury now has another trillion dollars That's where that money came from. That creates a liability on the part to pay it back, plus interest. Think about that, plus interest. When it comes time to pay it back, and they certainly can't pay it back, What they do is they borrow more plus the interest. Then by that time, so the debt just keeps going up. Under the current monetary system, into existence and we promise If you borrow and that's the only dollar but you promise to pay it back, where do you get the second dollar? The answer is you have to borrow that. It's a Ponzi scheme It always requires Since 1971, the United States with the rest of the world, meaning we've been buying a lot than they have been buying from us. The Japanese and Koreans The Middle East sells us oil, and the Chinese sell us on our Walmart shelves. The US pays for these products However, if countries were to convert back into their own currencies, making their economies Instead, countries by buying US government bonds. Countries around the world for US dollars that have been borrowed creating IOUs. Countries then loan to the US by buying more IOUs. The money from these loans as well as paying back previous IOUs. However, in order to do this, in order to pay back By paying back old loans it would appear as if the entire world into a Ponzi scheme of epic proportions. In this business of creating money and national governments around the world, if they didn't keep the whole thing would crash because that's where the money It's the new loans. That's why it's a Ponzi scheme. It's a classic Ponzi scheme. In order for the US economy to function, we have to borrow more The more money they loan us today, the more money If they ever stop loaning, the whole thing collapses Every Friday night, Julius Job of our neighborhood stores There are five big neighborhood markets and Julius spreads her shopping around, going where the prices are lowest Remember When you could fill your car up for $5, Whatever happened to those days, without anything governments could borrow This has gradually led to the value With the creation of all this money that dilutes the value of all so that the purchasing power We used to be able Now it's hitting around $5. The average guy in the street because of the loss of purchasing power. As a consequence, if he can't keep up In many measures of a standard of living, You can take my grandparents. My grandmother never worked, despite the fact that and they had eight children. Could a carpenter, somebody without just working in a blue-collar job, Not a chance. With inflation rising faster than income, people were forced to maintain their standard of living. With each new day, When we went off gold backing what used to happen prior to that is, and the wife stayed at home Because of inflation in the 70s, Now you had two incomes and buy the same goods and services. In the 90s, we stopped saving. The savings rate basically got down and they couldn't save in order Then we got to the last decade. The wife was already working, and they borrowed money. We've gone from two earners, to borrowing money The average person is now forced Getting themselves deeply into debt. At first, this was to maintain However, slowly By printing so much currency it would seem that governments on their people. Central banks tried to say or three percent inflation is a good thing Well, it's still a tax. Why is two percent inflation for the country than no inflation? You will be told, of course, and you'll be told jobs, or their wages and this is something. With effect, that two percent is robbery and what they get We are experiencing inflation these days. They say the CPI is up, Anybody who's alive probably running double digits. The purchasing power of the average person However, in order to disguise this, governments have been skewing to make it seem as if inflation There is this curious distinction between core inflation The core inflation which doesn't matter. The headline inflation like energy prices Well, the inflation rate is skewed. They use all kinds of contrivances than it really is. If the US government that it did when President Carter inflation rate today in the United States That's how badly The reason why they do that responsibilities that the US government For example, earn on an inflation-adjusted basis. If they keep the inflation rate low that means they're paying out less A thriving metropolis. Toledo is one of the world's In Akron, the state's fifth-largest city, Akron is the rubber manufacturing capital Her very name is synonymous with rubber. In a global economy where currencies Countries are able to artificially making their industries more competitive. A country with a weak currency causing entire industrial centers This effect has been seen countless times some of which still haven't recovered I think the guy on the street They go, gosh, I went to college, I can't get a job, I spend all this money It's costing me more to live. The Fed is telling me there's no inflation and I see the price of milk, I pull into a gas station They don't really understand how and that's why I think they're frustrated because there isn't an educational system when you print money, and when you debase it, you have all the side effects Higher inflation costs, all the things that would have been over the last four or five years. The protest movements A lot of people are terribly upset They're upset about what's happening They're upset with the news that the executives of these giant banks at the same time, they're dipping to get all this bailout money, Unfortunately, people are demonstrating and yet at the same time, they're demanding more welfare They're demanding more state control They're demanding more money be created They don't realize that have brought them onto the street While the person on the street we're told that what we're experiencing Why then from previous economic recessions? This is far from typical. I think this is the end game. I think what we're experiencing now of the 40-year experiment It is an absolute failure but for the entire world. Up until 2008, we've been borrowing more and more money Are we now at the point and cannot take on any more new debt? What we're seeing today Consumers are maxed out. Each succession that we had in the economy when we went we'd go through a bust and the economy would start up again Finally, we reached the point Banks are no longer willing and many people are more concerned as opposed to taking on new debt. While this is prudent, sensible behavior, it's also a serious threat Having set itself up the global economy is reliant being issued to keep itself functioning. If you try to just live within your means and get by with just the amount paying the interest on them We continually have to borrow more units than we extinguish by paying off debt. The system, they have to continue otherwise, the system is going to die. Politicians and pundits and paying down the debt. You can't do that We would just vanish into this black hole. All the politicians are in a situation we could just have an overnight shutdown, while they're in power. There's always this wish to move on and the expression which is really what we're doing. The problem is we've run out of road. There is no place to kick the can anymore. We've got to deal with the can because every time unfortunately, it got bigger. Now it's an enormous can While the financial crisis of 2008 of the Ponzi scheme, governments around the world so they delayed the inevitable collapse, pushing it down the road by bailing out buying toxic mortgages, and taking on In 2009 and 2010, what happened through bailouts, expansion of the money supply, et cetera. Governments can do that. Don't underestimate to dictate results in the short run, none of the problems were solved, The banks are still insolvent. The banks are not lending. The economy is not growing. We haven't really solved anything. By buying their way out of these crises, and flooding it into the economy, they're not solving the problem. What they're doing into the future and making it worse. Now, do we keep going down this road? Do we print more money? The Fed's balance sheet Should it now go to 6 trillion? We had an $800 billion stimulus. Should we now have a $2 trillion stimulus? In theory, you could, but this is where people and the currency could collapse. The Federal Reserve's money may help prop up However, what are the consequences I think you're going to see in the value whether it's 20 percent, A lot of people as a safe haven. When they find out in fact, Right now, the dollar What if the fear trade Aside from causing the Federal Reserve's reckless money also run the very real risk in the US dollar. I think a currency crisis but it'll be very difficult to know I think it will be something unforeseen, could be a political shock. It could be just a general loss It could be something as simple There are no buyers and all of a sudden Then the financial players, the big hedge funds Then all of a sudden that begin dumping dollars, get me out, At some point, the participants wake up to the con, and the whole thing implodes. Now, when private factors, foreigners, foreign central banks, the one difference is the Federal Reserve for the people who are waking of what we're doing. However, when the Fed that's the end game Hyperinflation is a rapid increase so much so that people and you see what is in fact Defeated Germany has runaway inflation. In Germany, the mark becomes so worthless, or to light stoves. What happens is the government It gets to the stage than the market is willing to lend to it. The central bank then steps in and turns that government debt The great question is, is what level of inflation? Five percent, ten percent, Do you start to panic? All I know is when that level comes, The consequence of hyperinflation rises very rapidly, causing people to get rid You then have a situation and they buy things just Paradoxically, that then starts driving because they want more paper money You have this situation starts collapsing in advance of its issue. In everyday life, you'll be scrambling If you're thinking you're going to buy two or even later on that day that can of tuna You're going to be scrambling This period is going to involve A lot of people are going to have to get jobs. Their retirement is gone. It's been bankrupted in a Bernie Madoff-type Of course, a lot of the property if people are spending They don't have money to make the repairs If the landlords can't collect rent how are they going How are they going to pay the taxes? I think the whole economy beneath the weight Of course, the initial reaction by the Fed to try to stimulate the economy which, of course, On the surface, it would appear that this is a problem However, with so many countries in US government bonds, could trigger a global crisis If the US dollar hyper-inflates, because you can go to a country and see the impact of hyperinflation. What happens when the world's We've never been in this situation before. It's impossible to predict However, logic suggests most, if not all, will also have severe economic problems, because at the end of the day, the reserves of all of these currencies There have been dozens of currency of the Second World War, Bad policies and bad management. The US right now is pursuing bad policies. Central Bank is doing a bad job and as a consequence, it's inevitable It's on this road The markets, the private sector, they suddenly move in a herd instinct. They suddenly understand things It really can. The timing of this is, it is impossible for us to say. However, I would point out that I use a metaphor. One morning we will wake up and find It may not be one morning, When it happens, and we won't be able Hyperinflation may be facing the world today, but history has shown us that whenever using an artificial fiat system, the end result There is a proven There is no exception to this. Fiat currencies always fail. Then 40 years ago, where all the world's currencies when we ended the Bretton Woods system. The world is going from this monetary system because if you want to back your currency, You can't back it with nothing. You always think where the first one was Lois Lane, and Superman catches her Don't worry, I got you, Who's got you? That's the dollar. Who's got the dollar? It's not Superman. The dollar can't fly on its own. The dollar used to be backed by gold. It was gold that had the dollar. It's like everybody to the Titanic of currencies If there is a loss and I think there will be in this decade, it happened before Then we'll probably have to go back and what instills confidence is gold. The only real solution is to go back real money, with something behind it. It doesn't have to be gold or silver. Historically that's been what societies They've tried this, they've tried that and they always I think that probably is a clue With all the uncertainty a return to a gold-backed economy How come there isn't so much The answer is as simple as it is alarming. The people at the top, the ones who have been benefiting don't want the ride to end. Many now believe have been artificially suppressed to make it seem less desirable What governments try to do because by doing that it makes the dollar look worthy when in fact we know the dollar because it's being so badly Groups like the Gold Antitrust have been tracking what they believe of gold and silver prices In 12 years, we've amassed nothing but evidence of the supports It'd be like talking about a murder trial when the jury would say guilty However, you're going to have and how it all fits together. There are numerous methods that they use Some are harder to prove than others. However, some of them are fully reported, Between 1999 and 2002, a massive amount at an average price of $275 an ounce. The proceeds were spent buying euros The governments of Canada, France, were also sellers of their gold We know that the central banks Why were they selling 400 tonnes? Obviously, it was the dumbest decision By far the dumbest, Sell 400, now gold goes Why were you selling the gold? Because they were trying It was a coordinated thing on believing in currencies. Alan Greenspan, in testimony to Congress, the price of gold when he said, stand ready to lease gold meaning they were already doing it. Should the price of gold rise, meaning the target They were already doing it and their target He admitted it in testimony to Congress. Although central banks their country's gold holdings legally, they may have also been suppressing using some other Some investigators believe have been loaning A bullion bank is an institution of buying it back sometime With the proceeds of this sale, these banks have been known While this isn't a problem in itself, and the gold they've loaned While a central bank may claim it has much of that gold which may have sold the gold One means of intervention is the lending of gold and they sell it in the market. This suppresses the price as if the central banks However, this lending does not appear The US Treasury a few years ago and they are accounting and their inventory as one line item. They're accounting and what people That is basically illegal accounting. It's fraudulent. Why work so hard Why do healthy gold and silver prices There's this competitive relationship because gold is the only competitor Gold is money and these national currencies that circulate in place of gold. Fiat money gives the power to government. Real money keeps the power When you have real money, It can only spend what it taxes However, if the government there's a lot less resistance. It's a lot easier when it can promise something for nothing. That's what they do. Gold is what protects the people from the reckless policies Gold is the government chaperone. The government wants to be able to do Yes, gold is an enemy of big government, It's a protector of individuals Gold is a competitor to the dollar. When it's going way up, It's a barometer of the well-being Look at gold screaming now It calls attention to how bad things are. The US government and the politicians, Wall Street doesn't want you buying gold and silver coins. They want to sell you paper. The government wants to sell you paper. I would say it's the government Golden hands of people Governments cannot create money If it's gold, they can only create paper If they can create paper out of thin air, or they can use that paper to enrich their friends. As a consequence, governments have been fighting gold Despite this desire to keep gold the recent instability for gold and silver skyrocket. This, in turn, within the central banks. The problem of central banks they have sold an awful lot of gold They are now embarrassed not in that original cartel, We're talking about the Chinese, the Indians, and Mexico. All these non-mainstream central banks, the top club members of the Bank The little guys in that context, they're picking up hundreds To suppress the price of gold, Western central banks have had to sell However, because the gold they sell no one can be certain they aren't selling than they physically own. If this is true, then this could be one ever perpetrated in history. A massive con perpetrated but by entire governments. The central bank gold, most of it sits at the New York Federal Reserve It's in the basement of these two places When a country is doing they basically take a bar off of this pile or they'll just change the labels except there's been some I don't think all of it is there. The question remains if everybody, wanted all of their gold it is physically impossible to do it. Most gold that exists on the planet, there's more than one claim There's several people that think that they have a title I have said many times if you can't hold it, you don't own it. The game can't go on forever people are going to demand and that already is happening. The lack of accountability in gold sales hasn't been a concern so far. However, as more and more buyers of gold central banks that have oversold will find themselves caught The result of such fraudulent activity be they individuals, pensions, could be ripped off It's a little similar here at Fox News in London, the Madoff scandal. It's a very incestuous relationship big money, and the politicians. Unfortunately, these things Madoff blew up. Murdoch blew up. The gold market is going to blow up and I think it will be a bigger scandal because It's only a trick and the central bankers, is to create more money out of nothing, They have no other trick. As long as we keep looking to them how can we expect anything else? That's the only trick they know. The other trick there is, is to stop inflating They'd say, oh, no, we can't do that. The reason they can't do that is because, They wouldn't be able Even with cracks the only solutions offered by governments are in fact However, while a single person there is still something you can do You cannot turn to a Ponzi scheme because he doesn't know how. You can't turn to all who are inflating the currency and say, well, let's solve the crisis because they don't know how. The solution is to quit with the same mentality If governments won't go back individuals can go back Politicians can create fiat money at will. That's why it's fiat. Why would you want Put your trust in politicians when you can just have something real that is scarce, Would you rather have gold We see what's happening in the world people are starting to figure out way more than a piece of paper is. It's not that the price of gold it's that the value The price remains constant and purchasing power. An ounce of gold today it bought 2,000 years ago. An ounce of gold today is approximate, it takes so much human effort the same human effort that it took It's the human effort equation How much effort does it take? Gold is financial insurance. The thing about it is you own it You just have to have it because there's nothing else. If some catastrophic event happens how are you going to be protected? The current financial system may be dying, there is also opportunity. As the old model falls apart, the door may be opened It's clearly not the end of the world, For many countries, this is going to be the beginning a giant burden where the world no longer has so that we can continue When this comes to an end, It is not something that we should fear. We should embrace it as a world. This is the greatest wealth transfer If we have a global currency crisis, then you're going to see than has ever happened in all of history. It's all going to happen at once. Therefore, it's the greatest opportunity. We have millions of people The question of what is money? What should it be? They're learning, The sun will rise tomorrow Commuters will wake up to begin the day's work. Farmers will tend to their crops and construction However, will the world they live in In 2008, the world was given The biggest financial crash was delayed by the same poor decisions What that massive bailout bought us Time for the people responsible out of a dying system. However, for those able to see time to protect themselves, from the imminent plunge. In the end, that time may prove to be There are these brief moments in history where the safe haven asset simultaneously becomes the asset class that has the greatest single We're in one of these cycles right now Get out of currency, buy money, and you're probably going to be able However, the best thing is really to take on for getting financially educated. This is the most important thing. Don't let the banks guide all of your decisions. Find out what's going on for yourself,