"Terror belli... decus pacis." Terror in war... ornament in peace... The words inscribed on every French Marshal's In France, the title of Marshal, or Marechal, It represents the highest possible position by a marshal's baton. The title was abolished during the French spirit of the age. But in 1804, Napoleon founded a new empire, This is Epic History TV's guide to Napoleon's All 26 have been ranked according to our own with expert guidance from Lieutenant Colonel French Army. So far we've met Marshals Perignon... Brune. Serurier. Kellermann. Grouchy. Moncey. Poniatowksi. Jourdan. Bernadotte. Augereau. Lefebvre. Mortier. Marmont. Saint-Cyr. Oudinot. Victor. And Murat. Who could be a more fitting video sponsor for fans of the Napoleonic era. Since 2010, the team at Napoleon-Souvenirs.com for those who adore this dramatic period of No aspect of the Napoleonic era has been forgotten, Napoleon-themed champagne... and stunning as well as uniforms and flags of the Grande baton of a Marechal. You can visit their online store at Napoleon-Souvenirs.com visit the Boutique Napoleon in person. Vive l'Empereur! And thank you to Napoleon-Souvenirs.com for 9. Marshal Bessieres Jean-Baptiste Bessieres was the son of a in southwestern France. When the French Revolution began, he volunteered to join the King's Constitutional Guard, This unit was soon disbanded, but Bessieres defending the Tuileries Palace, when it was In the aftermath, he needed to get out of So he volunteered to fight on the Pyrenees His bravery and good sense won him a commission himself at the Battle of Boulou. Transferred to Italy, his friendship with General Bonaparte, who was impressed enough known as 'Les Guides de Bonaparte'. Bessieres distinguished himself as a cavalry promotion to Brigadier and loyally supporting He became one of the few men that Napoleon When Napoleon became First Consul of France of the elite Consular Guard cavalry - which the next year. In 1804 Bessieres became a Marshal - less being a loyal member of Napoleon's inner Bessieres himself was well-liked: kind, well-mannered conservative, who liked to powder his hair His young wife, Marie-Jeanne, was also a favourite Josephine. In 1805, Bessieres commanded the Imperial In December that year, at the Battle of Austerlitz, Guard at the battle's climax. At Eylau in 1807, his squadrons supported own disciplined attacks to cover his withdrawal. However, Bessieres' opportunities for glory Guard back as his last reserve, as at Friedland. In 1808, Bessieres received his first major That May, the country erupted in revolt against Bessieres reacted quickly and decisively, He then attacked Spanish forces at Medina an enemy that outnumbered him two-to-one. But once the immediate crisis had passed, When Napoleon arrived in Spain, Bessieres a role he retained for the war against Austria In May, Bessieres and his cavalry were among occupying the village of Aspern on his left, When the Austrian commander, Archduke Charles, Bessieres, outnumbered four-to-one, made save the army from disaster. It came at a high cost. Bessieres and his cavalry performed bravely. But that night, a long-running feud with Marshal Bessieres of hanging back. The matter went no further, as Lannes was Bessieres commanded the cavalry again at redeployment to the left wing. As the charge began a cannonball killed Bessieres' A rumour reached the Imperial Guard that Bessieres Some old veterans began to weep for their was only wounded. "That was quite a cannonball," Napoleon tears!" As a devout Catholic, Bessieres was critical leading to a short spell out of favour. In 1811 he was sent back to Spain to command He found an impossible situation - a widespread He wrote bluntly to Napoleon, stating that the Emperor would never allow. For all his piety and refined manners, Bessieres in his attempt to pacify northern Spain - brutal this conflict. Later that year, he joined forces with Marshal Wellington's army at the Battle of Fuentes to send in his cavalry to support Massena's Unfortunately for Napoleon, this was typical - they'd rather watch another Marshal In 1812, Bessieres accompanied Napoleon into Since the Guard was kept in reserve, he saw the advance guard, clearing a path for the The disaster in Russia left Bessieres severely But he was resolved to do his duty, now serving in Marshal Murat's absence. On 1st May 1813, Bessieres was scouting enemy a cannonball hit him in the chest, killing His death robbed Napoleon of a dependable "It is surely a great loss for you and your "but an even greater one for me.&quot; 8. Marshal Macdonald Jacques Macdonald's father was a Scotsman bid to seize the British throne in 1745. After this ended in defeat at Culloden, the Inspired by tales of the Trojan War, Macdonald in Dillon's Irish Regiment - a French In the Revolutionary Wars, he won a reputation and served as aide-de-camp to General Dumouriez, He distinguished himself in that general's for rapid promotion, from lieutenant to general He led his division well during campaigns bond with one of France's most successful In 1798 he was sent to Rome as governor, and Summoned north the following year to reinforce in a skirmish with Austrian cavalry; and while was defeated at the Trebbia by a larger Coalition Suvorov. But Macdonald's own conduct won approval Later that year, he assisted Napoleon's ensuring the loyalty of the troops at Versailles. He was rewarded with an army command in Switzerland, to attack the Austrians in Italy. His march was far more challenging and dangerous in quite the same way. In 1804, Macdonald's former commander General in a plot to assassinate Napoleon. Macdonald stood up for his friend's reputation but disastrous for his career. Moreau was exiled; Macdonald was placed under estate in disgrace. Five years passed before Napoleon, desperate to serve as military advisor to his 27-year the Army of Italy. Macdonald and Eugene worked well together, feat of marching, joined Napoleon near Vienna The second day of the battle was Macdonald's Entrusted by the Emperor with the main attack into a giant open-backed square, and advanced Napoleon, watching through his telescope, What a brave man." Macdonald's costly attack helped to secure The next day Napoleon went to find him on words, "Let us be friends from now... You have acted valiantly and given me the On the battlefield of your glory, where I I make you a Marshal of France... You have long deserved it." In addition, Macdonald received the title But as time would prove, his loyalty remained Macdonald spent an unhappy year in Catalonia, immoral war - in his memoirs he even praised of the Spanish. In 1812, he was given command of Tenth Corps This corps, composed of German troops and flank of the invasion, and had a relatively In December, the Prussians suddenly agreed loyal remnants of Macdonald's corps to fight By 1813, Napoleon relied on Macdonald as one In August, he gave him command of the forces of Silesia. But when Macdonald advanced across the Katzbach chaos among his troops, just as they encountered Blucher launched an immediate attack, and Thousands of his new conscripts surrendered river itself. Macdonald took full responsibility for the bad luck were also to blame. Napoleon certainly continued to respect Macdonald's He continued to command Eleventh Corps, and two months later. Macdonald was with the rearguard when the the chaos that engulfed the army. When the Elster Bridge was blown too early, the river, and just managed to swim to safety Macdonald continued to serve Napoleon as a 1814 campaign, effectively serving as his Unlike most Marshals, Macdonald was never his mind to the Emperor. This in itself was a valuable service, though Perhaps inevitably, in April, it was Macdonald with the facts of his situation: the war was Napoleon named Macdonald as one of the three his foreign minister, the Marquis de Caulaincourt, man of his word, of high principles, and he In their last meeting a few days later, Napoleon I was prejudiced against you. I have done so much for so many others who've And you, who owe me nothing, have remained I appreciate your loyalty too late." Macdonald was kept on as a military advisor He continued to speak his mind, so much so Outspokenness'. During the Hundred Days, Macdonald remained troops to fight against Napoleon. When he saw this was futile, he escorted the Paris, where he refused to meet with Napoleon. After the defeat at Waterloo, he was put in Napoleon's Grande Armee, and helped many Macdonald was a methodical, reliable if unspectacular But he distinguished himself above all by complete loyalty to France, and his willingness too rare among Napoleon's Marshals. 7. Marshal Massena Andre Massena was born in Nice, at that the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia. His father, a shopkeeper, died when he was enlisted in the French army. He was quickly made a sergeant, but a commoner after 14 years' service, he quit. When the French Revolution began, he re-enlisted Massena, supremely self-confident and unfazed battalion, and led it with success against Despite his lack of education, he proved an to brigadier... and after leading a successful of Division. He won an impressive victory over the Austrians commander, General Scherer resigned, over many expected Massena to replace him. Instead, the job went to the 26 year-old General experienced than Massena, but with far better Nevertheless, Napoleon and Massena worked advance guard, and played a major role in In reports, Napoleon described Massena as He won so many battles that Napoleon acclaimed - the spoiled child of victory. Massena was, however, notorious for extorting his own troops went hungry and without pay. In 1798 Massena received his first independent The next spring, after French defeats on the defence of France lay in his hands. Rather than wait to be encircled, he attacked... and Russian forces at the Battle of Zurich. Rewarded with command of the Army of Italy, 1800. He was eventually starved into surrender, time to cross the Alps, and defeat the Austrians Physically exhausted by this last ordeal, Massena was recalled to Paris and went into When he was made a Marshal by Napoleon in on being congratulated, remarked, "There But Massena was one of the few Marshals who'd making him a priceless asset to Napoleon. In 1805 he was recalled to active service, the war against the Third Coalition. Massena kept Archduke Charles's army busy victories at Ulm and Austerlitz. In 1806, Massena oversaw the occupation of reprisals against local resistance. In 1807 he commanded Fifth Corps in Poland, the major battles of Eylau and Friedland. Later that year, while out hunting with the he was accidentally shot in the face, and Napoleon, a notoriously bad shot, was to blame, The war against Austria in 1809 saw Massena for the crossing of the Danube, and fought against an overwhelming Austrian onslaught. Massena was everywhere, displaying his usual ensured his troops pulled back across the The battle was a defeat, but Massena had Together, he and the Emperor oversaw preparations weeks later. The Austrians were waiting for them, at the Because of a riding accident a few days earlier, He made a fine target for Austrian gunners, of his corps at the height of the battle, Massena's bold manoeuvre secured the French Massena, already ennobled as the Duke of and another, less welcome reward - command Massena was deeply reluctant to go, and complained He was showing clear signs of exhaustion, When he arrived in Spain, General Foy observed, He's lost weight and has begun to stoop. His glance, since the accident in which he His subordinates, already underwhelmed by also decided to bring along his mistress, The French invasion of Portugal proved a disaster tactics, a hostile population and terrain, His corps commanders, especially Marshal Ney, At Bucaco, Massena squandered lives with British position. When he reached Lisbon, he found the city Lines of Torres Vedras. Massena waited outside Lisbon for reinforcements raids took their toll on his army. Five months later, he re-crossed the mountains villages behind him. The next summer, at Fuentes de Onoro, Massena despite much hard fighting, again failed to He blamed Marshal Bessieres for his lack But the Emperor's patience was at an end. He sent Marshal Marmont to replace Massena, cutting words, "So, Prince of Essling, you Massena's health was now in steep decline. He never held a major command again, though district in southern France. He died after a long illness in 1817. In his prime, Massena was a superb commander But he was past his best by the time he became Nevertheless, there were enough sparks of The Duke of Wellington once remarked, "When never slept comfortably." Bessieres. Macdonald. Massena. Twenty down, six to go. Join us for the next part of Napoleon's soon. Thank you to Napoleon-Souvenirs.com for sponsoring supporters for making Epic History TV possible. Visit our Patreon page to find out how you access and help to choose future topics. You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram and regular updates.