One of my favorite quotes is from Lao Tzu. And day. To attain wisdom, remove things every and I found that when it comes to simplifying all of that good stuff, it's been mostly things rather than things that I started doing, or added quitting things is just a bit easier than adding down and wrote a list of 50 things that I quit is prone to overthinking, worrying, feeling just for putting my mind at ease, feeling a bit more smoothly. Feel free to look at this video that you feel could also be very helpful Welcome back everyone. And if you're new here, inspiration for living a simpler, happier and below if you haven't already, because I would love did something different with my hair. Don't ask trying to start filming for like an hour now. And start filming. Following what's trendy. I have no I don't need to know. Except for seeing everyone wear what I like. And I'll only buy something if I to buy my way into a trend. Saves me time, saves to say? Treating myself to things I don't really and treat myself or pamper myself the way that you getting massages. And actually took me a while don't like shopping. I do pay my nails sometimes, something I enjoy having done. So treating myself a half hour in bed with a book. Washing my clothes amount of laundry that I need to do. I will only If it's, you know, smelling a little funky, or if like that. Otherwise, I'll just put it back. even if I don't enjoy it. Life is too short to give it a good try. I'm not going to quit like you know, a good try. But if like halfway I'll just leave it be. Over complicating my when life just has been very very crazy. This is a basic meals. I just let go of that expectation be on Pinterest or on Instagram, and just focus it's quicker, it is a great way to just whenever life gets really busy. Ironing. I we moved in here. I just realized that I haven't line dry everything. So usually, things are wear it for an hour and my body heat somehow I stopped ironing. Over scheduling myself. I've in my calendar, where I can just do whatever I is absolutely crucial for me to keep feeling is something that I really just stopped doing mean that I cannot do anything productive during or go grocery shopping, or something. And Addictive games. I'm talking games on your phone than you want to. This is the very reason that I and I was spending way too much time on my phone. time actually goes on inside the game. And if you they die for example. I love video games, but I to play them. Ao if it is too addictive, I'll just you really only need one. Things like your wallet, that it just makes more sense to always keep costing you more money. It takes time to find them In my opinion, there's really no need. Always people pleaser. And I especially don't like it really like, or that I'm hurting their feelings. is a great way to lead a very busy complicated a very busy life without burning out after a my energy. And that is why I now say no when I you to do something, and it will cost you more in the other person by you saying yes, then that is after waking up and an hour before going to bed. I up in the morning to be something like annoying that to be the last thing I see before I fall self-care related. But I feel a big difference tea. Both have caffeine. Both give me just a kind of like that happy feeling. But green tea me really into my head. My thoughts are racing. don't have any of that when I drink green I'll just have a matcha or a sencha. And coffee This goes for actual shopping, grocery shopping, This way, I don't even have to think about it my list go home. I'm not tempted to buy things on Strenuous workouts. I stopped doing the kind of or four days to recover afterwards. I used to and if I could just do it often enough, my body I've accepted this about myself now. And I only a lot better. Thinking I'm not allowed to quit don't be a quitter. But in my experience, quitting we evolve, our priorities shift. And being able you from wasting of your time and energy on things but in my experience, it also helps me to try open-minded. Because I don't feel like I have no matter what. Wearing uncomfortable underwear. the whole day. Just a little bit of self-care your underwear is bothering you, try focusing more what it is, if it's something that will give me If there is something really urgent that I need this has happened maybe three times in the last and not the other way around. So if you want definitely I encourage you right after this video, phone with me at all times. I almost never have have a phone tray, it's right over there in the where we keep our phones if we're not using them. not tempted to constantly grab your phone out of myself. Talking down to yourself is really awful your image that you have of yourself. Plus, it and understanding and empathetic to yourself self-development and growth and getting things then talking down to yourself is. So if it is I stopped saying that to myself as well. Turning I noticed a small spot on the floor next to the I need to mop the entire house. This is apparently mopping the entire house is a big chore, so I there for like a week. So what I like to do now the little spot on the floor, takes like one project that feels too overwhelming, and I'll it's usually pretty obvious if you're having a a meaningful one, even if you disagree, or if And if it's one of those, I try to avoid them. I always learned to downplay my grades or my in order to get my friends to like me more. Even like things that I really didn't enjoy, just so Trying to be someone you're not, or claiming you into a pickle. And it's going to keep you and attracting people that like you for this. And just living more authentically has Putting off paying bills. No one likes paying as soon as they come in. It keeps my head clear. move on with my life. Productivity systems. I just That's it. I have a calendar with my appointments. If they work for you, absolutely great, keep are just another way to procrastinate and over my period. This one's a little self-care related. my periods, are always kind of hard on me. And I I will block out the like most difficult two with scheduling things during that time, if There's kind of this idea that we just need to and just keep up our normal productivity when that's not realistic. And it's not for me that it is perfectly okay to take extra good care your cycle. Elaborate morning or evening routines. this video. I'm sorry. I don't mean it that way. and cramming them as much as you can I think that that can cause extra stress and extra I like to just keep it simple. Do whatever feels doing that makes you feel bad, like scrolling on something else. Something positive that'll serve meditation. Whatever you enjoy. And that's enough. gifts. We basically almost entirely stopped with give each other anything for any holiday or way we spend our holidays can easily become just a that that's the way it has to be. In my opinion, the holidays and you want to go all out, and that I like to keep them really really simple. Holiday we only have two sets of string lights now, that I and that's it. I do enjoy holiday decorations like or in the store, at the mall. I like looking at Watching the news every day. This doesn't make you my case, the news had a hugely negative impact on I'm burdening myself with all of that negativity, good and show up and try and make a difference recognize this, and the news has a negative impact that drastically. Going to bed with a dirty and I have a pact to always clean up the kitchen a yucky feeling to wake up in the morning with unhealthy snacks and junk food. Ever since June junk food, unhealthy snacks for the house. And changer. Because it makes everything so much the pondering whether or not to eat the cookie, or just not here. We only get something like that if exception where we go out to eat, like slice of Over consuming information. If we're not of information all day every day. And I already to a bunch of podcasts, or spend a lot of time ton of shows on Netflix. I'm very selective about Because I get tired. Counting the books I'm year you're reading. I know that this is a huge reading, and I know I do, just focus on enjoying three books a year or 100 books a year. You don't competition with anyone else. Just enjoy reading body type. I'm a little bit curvy. I Have Hips. I was 13. My parents don't really have it, but wished I had a different body type. Especially and they oftentimes have kind of like a petite, I had that. Funny thing is I loved my body type myself. After a while, I decided to let that go I feel sexy. I feel good in my own skin. And of the things that my body does for me, instead if I already have something that works. This goes your life. If there is a product or a brand that you can just stick with that, and you can stock up other products and brands out there just be there, Taking on other people's emotions as my own. I has their own life to live. And their emotions can need to take them on for myself. And I can listen without also being an emotional sponge. Saying I'm not okay, because it's perfectly okay to say that then we can either help ourselves, or ask other Always craving more. Especially with my work and stop always craving more. Like more subscribers, that's another goal or personal goal or something learned that just keeping what you already have is crave more, then you will also never be satisfied. make me feel bad. Nothing is worth making you feel My fantasy self is in many ways quite different things for that person, because I felt like I times, these items will just end up not getting course, I'm not perfect. I do complain sometimes. perfectly fine. But I also know that complaining a lot of negativity. So if it is something that I something I can change, I'll try to accept it. And to accept, then I will just stop doing that constructive. Wanting to be the best. I have never to be the best that I could be. I was quite a which was going all in. Now, I think it's fine to ways. And I think that's perfectly fine. And the feel way less intimidated by people who are for And actually just have an open mind to be able feeling like I need to be just as successful or Always needing to make the most optimal choice. activity to do today, or show to watch, or book options, too many options. And decision fatigue is prone to overthinking, then this can be quite important, like choosing an outfit, I prioritize optimal decision. Showering every day. I stopped that I'm perfectly okay not showering daily. And And it saves me time, it saves us water. And also myself. If something is very difficult, and asking for help in any way, then I think that's to hire an accountant is the day that I finally have to worry about making mistakes while doing my she knows everything, and she's worth every so much peace of mind. Coloring my hair. I ago. And by now, it has saved me so much money, Gossiping. Negative gossip is awful for her of negativity that's not really doing anyone any to try and not gossip about people. Of course, rhythm. I tried to be the kind of person who could body just does not want to. So it feels much more and early afternoon, and then maybe do a workout trying to fight against my natural rhythm, I breaks. Absolutely life-changing. When I'm taking or a five minute break, whatever it is, I try else. Just walking around a bit. Or I don't know, whatever it is. But one, I try yo not be sitting. laptop. And because of that, my breaks are a little refreshed coming back from them. My body hours in a row. So instead of just cramming your just leave the technology out of it for a while. have quit that really helped you to simplify your see you there. If you're looking to simplify to clear some of that chaos and create more of also check out my online course, which is called with weekly lessons and worksheets and all the of your life, and make lasting positive changes. it's so wonderful to see everyone's feedback on make big lasting changes. So I will leave the link well as read other people's experiences with the questions, comments, conversations down below. you again next week. Bye bye! If you find it you'll think about it, and get back to them later