first of all I can't wait for you to fierce let me know in the comments what's your glad to have you so many good things are the following cities Savannah Georgia Greenville July 19th through 21st also to Miami Tampa Atlanta Birmingham Lubbock Dallas and Houston that's I want to see you there but I want to see you see what God speaks through you let me know what of God he has something amazing for youI want Today is going to be a special day. I want That prayer came out of my personal anxiety and fear and stress and all of the things It just gives you an opportunity that opportunity right now. Just take Repeat after me. Say, &quot;I and your strength comes suddenly; and your &quot;I breathe you in, Holy Spirit; and your strength comes Come, Holy Spirit. With every breath, come. Come have your way. Come show us Jesus. Come teach us your Word. We're waiting here for you. We breathe you in. Thank you today, Lord, for each person I believe it was you who made the arrangements something you are going to speak today, words of We want to say to you that unless but if you come... And we believe We believe that you're filling us right now. you come, we can do all things through him who Lord. Thank you for the confidence that only comes Let's clap our hands and I'm so excited to share these moments with from my personal time with God. Remain just tell you this before I tell you tell you before I tell you what I'm going It has been several years since I've preached weekend. Normally, I take this weekend off, but I felt that it was meant to be I don't say that to get your expectations too could live up to it, but there is something God You're like, &quot;Do they have Episcopalian denominations get a Sunday?&quot; We're not celebrating church celebrates the coming of the Holy Spirit. stirring in my spirit to give you two Scriptures where we were singing, &quot;All of a sudden.&quot; Listen and then I'm going to have you be seated and They used to come around all the these consultants would come, and they'd say, I was like, &quot;I haven't lived.&quot; But at this stage God has called me to impart. I'm learning The first Scripture I want to give you is from 2 going on around here, but you will know when you and then I'll tell you the story behind when the grain offering was offered, that wilderness. &quot;...and the land was filled with water.&quot; Now let's go over to Acts, chapter 2, the days since Jesus ascended to heaven. It has Pente means five. It's a celebration that suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a where they were sitting.&quot; I don't think every single nook, every single It filled the bathrooms. It filled the God told me to preach a message today and release a Sudden Blessing. Touch three people and &quot;Suddenly.&quot; It's going to come suddenly. I might sweat. I shouldn't have I can't tell what temperature it's going to day. I'm so confused. It'll change on you fall the next. It'll just switch I was even glad it was raining today that God wanted me to preach when the rain playing around. That's not a joke. I really do for a Sudden Blessing. We'll talk about Write this down if you like to take momentum as we begin this sermon. What we steadily. What we experience suddenly was steadily. What I mean by that is behind most was consistency that enabled it Just for an example of that, one of my friends of his opponents in, like, 30 seconds, and I had to congratulate him, I said, &quot;I'm so glad you have to knock him out so quickly? It was $60.&quot; Of course, I was joking, but he got really mad really intimidating. But I never forgot what he I trained six months to be able to do that, and beside the fact that I trained six He was trying to get me to see that what looked anything but. What we experienced quickly... &quot;It's What we experienced quickly was engineered Since our church did grow fast, a lot of One thing I love about the season of life I'm church now for over 17 years, but this Thursday Yesterday, when my barber asked me, &quot;What's one nugget of wisdom from 21 That's the best thing I ever did. That's my think the selection process was a blessing, but for 21 years. There's no one principle for 21 Yet I have preached and taught that so sometimes I think I fail to remind you It can come suddenly. It can, and it often prayer for myself that said, &quot;I breathe you in, There will be moments in my life Maybe you're in one of those moments today. I want to speak to that moment, if you are in that and you don't have six years to study the subject Say it out loud. Let's get this confession turning can you start to think it's never going to happen it was going to happen. It can come suddenly. On A sudden sound for a people who were and uncertain season. See, not only has it but they have no clue how and when he's Maybe that's you. Maybe you need God to Just graduated college, and you have no clue who's going to hire you. The Lord told me to put so I'm going to put a little graduation speech high school right now, and they're all asking are you going to do with your life? And we start asking everybody everything so soon. I can't even hang my middle my eighth grade graduation participation trophy &quot;Well, where are you going to college?&quot; Nowadays, in on a holiday weekend, so let me rant. Let me Is it so necessary that our kids have a 9.7 GPA Harvard? What if I don't want to pay for Harvard? I don't want them to go to Harvard. I want them Leave my kids alone. Somebody who has had just shout really quickly, &quot;When are y'all going to have kids? When &quot;Leave me alone! I don't know!&quot; You but you can say it in church right now. when the disciples were like, &quot;Is it time? Is it They're like, &quot;Is it time? Are you going is like... This is a great little Bible verse that you don't know right now, and you think you think you need to know, so you are Look at Acts 1:7 on this Pentecost Sunday. That's the big guy. That's the big boss. and the owner all rolled up into one. &quot;And times or seasons which the Father This is not permission to be ignorant. It's just next. Verse 8: &quot;But you shall receive power...&quot; I but that doesn't mean I don't have the power. and I don't know how this ends, and I See, the Holy Spirit doesn't just give power; and if you've called on his name to save you, not only did he save you but he's stepping Power. That's what I've got. &quot;You've got a plan?&quot; &quot;No. I've got power.&quot; &quot;You've got it all worked out?&quot; &quot;No. I've got power.&quot; &quot;You've got a seven-step strategy?&quot; &quot;No. I've got power.&quot; Power enough to do...what? Power enough to He said it is not for you to know the times A lot of times, it is not about us knowing it's about us trusting God enough that until he that his hand is steady, that his hand is This enables me to stand in uncertain seasons. I vanishes and you don't know when he's coming back. speaking to somebody today who thinks you need to What I want you to begin to say to yourself times you think you need to know something is just over and over say, &quot;I'll know...&quot; This is my first point of the sermon. but this is the first one I told them I'll know when I need to. That thing hit me the Well, okay. That's very generous to call I don't know why I wanted to label make me want to get up here and I was stress eating about something. I than this about it. That's about as far as need to know. &quot;What were you stress eating?&quot; know. This relationship is on a need-to-know I'll know when I need to. Say that. &quot;I'll response, because I think when you speak something an opportunity to get in you than just when you This is what Jesus is saying to the disciples. and then there are some things you are responsible but it is for you to walk in the power. That helps me with this, because if I were it like a sermon, I would talk about how Some things you will never know in your life until The best example I can give you is there that are sitting on your shelf waiting you go pull that book off of There was a book I bought because I thought but I never read it...until my oldest son turned 13. paper book off the shelf. I downloaded the digital take it on my phone. I downloaded the audiobook so because they had a British accent, and I Watch. This is what I'm trying to say. I A lot of things we say we want to know about enough yet because we don't think we need it wanting surface-level, superficial knowledge about going to become plain and real to us as we get We'll start saying, &quot;What was that that Sunday when I went and it was I didn't write it down? Did you write it asking, &quot;Did you take notes?&quot; Put everything I say that sounds even like in your phone, because you don't know how the What if God is giving you the word right now You don't know about that fight yet, but put it know where to go. &quot;God gave me this word for this See, I can't hit the gym and start I'm going to be in some situations in so how do I get sudden strength? It's with a I believe there are many here today who are you to walk into, but you won't go into it because Enter Elisha, the prophet. Now, this is what I Sunday. A little Bible story I really love. I I don't need you to know every single this Bible passage. Please. I know some are like, &quot;Oh, I feel so dumb, man. I and I know I should, but I don't You don't need to know every bit of what God has for you from it. Here's what I The king of Israel and the king of of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. Jehoram is a terrible king, but his mom and Ahab was bad, so he came by it honestly. in how to do this, but he was terrible. Edom, which was the wilderness where they pick up this king of Edom, and they're going Let me explain the situation. Let's On their way to go to war, they Has that ever happened to anybody in you encounter something you didn't plan It's this feeling you can get sometimes. I was already struggling enough.&quot; I feel so excited about it. &quot;I was already stressed Now this?&quot; In the King James version of the I love that because it's kind of like the King out here trying to fight the Lord's battles, seven days through the desert. Edom is butted up So, they can't even defeat their enemy That's half the problem with us keeping our up to stuff fresh. We don't just get to show to show up to our mission in a good mood. A when you're not in the mood you were in A lot of times, I have to preach the sermon sermon is sitting back in Thursday when I and I have to do it not for my own glory, but Now, what do you do when you're on your way trying to raise your own children and you are that nobody showed you how to process? Nobody taught you how to break down trauma that sounds cute, but I don't know how to do it.&quot; you didn't get it when you should have gotten it, There's something about now that God knew. God still knows. Just because I don't not walking in it presently doesn't You see, if I look back at my Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father, All I have needed thy hand hath provided, Great is thy faithfulness, How did you get it? &quot;Morning When you need it. So, when the grace you needed for today was in today. The you get to tomorrow, there will be a truckload of But you can't get tomorrow's strength &quot;God, I need you right now.&quot; &quot;Morning by morning.&quot; The hand of God was steady come. That's why I don't like to preach that everything I want and wish is going to There are some times that it comes suddenly. and in the times when it doesn't come It's a steady hand. You know how the hand If you don't know that, I'll tell you. The just like that. Suddenly. The hand of God can Let me prophesy. It's Pentecost. Can Let me prophesy. The hand of God can get you don't want to be alone and snatch You'll be praying, &quot;God, bring &quot;I can't bring him back because and what you've been calling a blessing is really Just because he does stuff suddenly doesn't mean The absence of evidence is That is not my original quote. I don't know who that's a good example. How did I day of my life I try to study. Suddenly. See, behind every sudden Anybody who built a successful Doesn't it make you laugh when it starts working? &quot;Wow! You just came Stop saying people blew up. That makes it they blew up.&quot; No. They built Wave at me again if you've ever had a Let's get the baseline down. You sent a find common ground. There punctuation, grammar... None of that A lot of times...not every time, but a lot of until you can look back later in, say, 21 years. The reason I shared with you about Secondly, to get y'all ready for our marriage I don't know when. I already know what to The Lord will show me when I need Can we get a little more openhanded in our lives happen and how we think it was supposed to happen through? When I went to college... Remember, I probably could have done it, but the Lord had But why am I at North Greenville? Remember how Yeah, it was close to home, too, because there was this girl and Come here, 21 years. Something. Something was coming to Tigerville, South Carolina. &quot;What am I doing here?&quot; I wondered when This is for everybody who's stressed out about I wanted to go home for months at It must have been a Holly Anna Boitnott. It must have been that girl staying over there I was stalking you before you knew how sexy I was. Now, how many of y'all think that while I was God saw this girl on the front row who has by my side every step of the way? Do you think God sees stuff about your life that you're not in a sudden season, you're in a with me?&quot; Actually, I think that was in the 50s. We used to just say, &quot;Go with me.&quot; &quot;Go with you where?&quot; &quot;I don't know. Just go with me.&quot; Sometimes God will just say, &quot;Go with me.&quot; &quot;I to get you steady, because for what I'm going if your hands aren't steady, you won't be able So, even when God isn't doing stuff When he's doing stuff steadily, I can Everybody else will say, &quot;Oh, it happened so You'll know that you cried for it. You that you wondered about it. You won't have to You'll know what it actually cost you to stay when you went to therapy and started rooting won't know, but they don't need to. What they They will look at your life not many days from and you will say, &quot;It was by his hand. It was was because he came close. It was a divine they had to say 'No' so he could say 'Yes' I dare you to believe it. They had to say &quot;No.&quot; I speak to the next level of your effectiveness to say &quot;No&quot; so he could say &quot;Yes&quot; so you could Come on, quiet personalities, Come on, Episcopalian, get Pentecostal. High-five five people and say, &quot;I'm doing this. Absolutely said. Are y'all ready for Elisha the prophet? We Devil has been telling somebody, &quot;You're about to It's over. You won't make it. They're going to economy this time, your industry this time, your the prophet, because he knew how to do what Isn't this good? I'm going to put this sermon up also on the Basin. Friday. Holly came downstairs to ask, &quot;Do you want at the camera. I heard her go back up the I preached this an hour. Why? Because when God be ready for the rain. I preached it in the Elisha has a bad attitude because he thinks and then they wouldn't be in this situation. &quot;Okay. If you would have done it God's way, There are wilderness seasons Guilty as charged. Look at verse 14. Let's &quot;And Elisha said...&quot; Oh, he is a new prophet to was the one they were familiar with. with chariots of fire, and Elisha said, &quot;You can go look for him all you this out right now.&quot; The Lord will speak that disgruntled employee and do all of the exit That's not coming back. You'd better get with So, Elisha gives them a little speech, a little talking to. Second Kings 3:14: &quot;And whom I stand, surely were it not that I regard &quot;[If I didn't regard him] Jehoshaphat He turns to the other king, Jehoram, and &quot;I wouldn't even look at you, nor see you.&quot; Now, &quot;I don't feel like prophesying for y'all.&quot; What I wouldn't do this if I were I love verse 15. The whole thing hinges You can get a whole lot out of those two reset in your heart. &quot;I wish I would have &quot;I wish I would have gotten the memo about your didn't. But now I got the memo loud and clear. You collide in a way that is not acceptable &quot;But now bring me a musician.&quot; &quot;Then it happened, when the musician played, that who? Elisha. So, let's get this straightened out. Nobody knew they were going to be in need of How many are standing looking at a need right Even if it's just the surgery you might raise your hand. Even if it's just but everything is good in your life, raise your and what they said helped them the most... I was them, and they said, &quot;It was just good to hear It was good for us to hear from you, 'I'm not supposed to be angry. I'm supposed to and I don't know why. So, when you told because it let us know that sometimes on What do you do when the fight is right the feeling isn't coming? Elisha knew what to musician began to play, the hand of the Does it say when the musician started practicing Here's what I'm wondering. How long How many hours of practice does it take &quot;Hey, we need you in the wilderness really you to play something snappy for Elisha. an audience with three kings, and if he That is not the time to work on your scales. So, my Father, there is no shadow of turning with His hands started playing all of a I did not prepare him for that hymn. I did not in the sermon, after I say this, get ready to play that it's &quot;Great is thy faithfulness, O God my All I have needed thy hand hath provided. Great is thy hand hath provided...&quot; His hand. Ya'll give me that holiday energy, and I have that Holy Ghost anointing. You'd better get your hands busy, because when God gets ready to do what some hands that know where to go. That's why That's why I'm forgiving them. I have I can't be bound by bitterness. I can't be Clap those hands and get them ready! &quot;Why are you my hands ready. I'm praising I'm praising him because my spirit shows a blessed man. I'm a blessed woman. I'm a Get your hands ready. Count your and it might surprise you what he has Oh, here comes Goliath. Here comes the bear. are ready. My spirit is ready. My heart is didn't put me in it if he didn't put it in me. sensation&quot; God. He's not a God who blows you up. I came to announce to your storm, &quot;You'd because this one is ready. She's a storm. She knows how to sing at midnight. She's ready!&quot; Elisha said, &quot;I don't need anything to do what God God is looking for a steady hand. steady hand. I read my Bible today. &quot;What did you I study when I don't see anything in the I study when it looks like Japanese characters steady. God, help me. Y'all shouldn't have let me preach on Pentecost Sunday. I knew God was It's just coming, man. It's coming I'll know when I need to. When I get my mind made God will send keys. I'll know when I need to. You It's going to be different this time. &quot;But this is my fourth time. I'm 47 years Stop giving me information I didn't Are you ready to experience the person pulling you back down? Because if Even if you fall again, that's So, let's go forward and let's flow in is the other thing God gave me. We but the Lord told me to tell you one The prophet looked at the Then it happened when the musician played. That's scales. That's a man who has learned his chords. is a woman who has learned how to apologize, That is a trained player who That's why Ella got that scholarship. practicing since she was 8. That's why a sudden scholarship. Then somebody will No. She was steady. &quot;But I'm not. You're not other person you're talking about.&quot; That's I'm talking about his. Do you remember who was in the upper room in Acts in the verse. I don't know if you remember. Acts 2:2. It's going to come up suddenly. I promise it is. It's going to be slow then sudden. businessman in my church... I don't even know how He said, &quot;Make sure you tell the We saved for years. We tithed for years. We went through cycles.&quot; He's a home builder. &quot;We but we were steady, and then it was sudden.&quot; Then &quot;And now God has us stewarding more I don't know if I remind you of this &quot;Do the work. Do the work. Do the work.&quot; And is that God can do stuff suddenly Receive it if it's your word. It will be one day, and when you need that This is how God works. He plants things Every experience I've been through, I looking back on things I've been through I'm needing to believe forward into so it's not just 20 years later where I to that college,&quot; but it's me saying while I'm know me? Does anybody care that I'm doing this?&quot; 10 days. He rose 40 days before that. It The Bible says in Acts 2:2, &quot;And as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the a whole sermon in that they, because sitting He wasn't very steady 50 days earlier. He I don't know who I'm preaching to, but you The Lord said you need to know They. Peter? What's Peter going to Nothing but preach on the day of Are you telling me God can't because you have bursitis? Are you telling me you can do all things. You're the master, unless God said, &quot;I'm going to help you pay it off steadily, and then suddenly. One where you will be able to not only feel your own bring others to freedom in that very same path &quot;You can flush the pills.&quot; You'll be able You'll be able to tell them, &quot;You can get set free &quot;The curse can be reversed, a sudden.&quot; Sudden blessings come, sudden winds love, sudden healing, sudden breakthrough, Suddenly a sound like a mighty and even Peter gets to preach, Get your hands ready. Get your about those toxic things this week. This is This is his habitation. You The Lord wanted me to tell you you won't this is where the song we were singing earlier The prophet told the kings in verse 17... Suddenly. I love that that same Holy Spirit who can make To be still and know that he is God or to Here comes the prophetic word. Stand up and If you receive it, lift your hands. This For next Sunday, I'm going to Next week is going to be so practical. It's significant. But unless you get this... that. This is going to be the foundation. 'You shall not see wind...'&quot; Well, of &quot;...nor shall you see rain; yet...&quot; This may that valley shall be filled with water, so that...&quot; Watch how good God is. He went from He says, &quot;When God gets done with the situation, drink.&quot; God said, &quot;I'm going to do it so big your it so big you're going to help others. You're a school with what I'm going to teach you. That's why God gave me the word. There have dry I didn't think I could do it, but this past &quot;You're going to make it.&quot; Now Everybody gets to drink. Nothing you've been through shall be wasted. attention. It is going to come all of a sudden. &quot;Yeah, but I can't quantify it.&quot; You don't have I can't even get it out because it's too The Bible says there are groans and the Holy Spirit will intercede for You won't see wind, you won't see rain, But the drought will end, I feel it coming. you call his name, renew your strength I feel it coming all of a sudden. [Worship] hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church can know when we go live and post new content what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue reaching people around the world for