Are you a graphic designer Have you been sending application after Or maybe you're a freelance designer after you send your portfolio If any of those are hitting close to home, then you're going to want to stick around helping you design a killer portfolio Let's go. Hey, everyone. Welcome to Artful Ruckus. For those of you that are new here, I'm an Art Director and this channel is all about helping creatives take your craft, careers and confidence I recently reviewed some of your graphic dive, talking about exactly what's If you missed it, be sure to check out the link above because I revealed a ton of hacks You guys sent in a lot more portfolios so today I'll be doing rapid fire reviews and give you my gut reaction. Iif you'd like to have your portfolio be sure to drop a link to your work and subscribe to the channel All right. I'm super excited to see the work Let's get into it. All right. So for these, I'll be doing a rapid fire or 2 minutes on each portfolio, and essentially going through it When you've got 100-200 portfolios to get through in a day, So a hiring manager just getting a quick understanding And if they like what they see, If they don't, The first portfolio we're checking out My initial reaction is that It tells me that you understand I like that. It's just one color on white. Feels very reserved, I like that you have this intro here of who you are, You get right into the work, So there's no beating around the bush. I can very quickly tell what you're all about, your skill It does look like these projects are maybe a lot of like zine looking projects, but something to be mindful of showcasing and focusing on are the type Right? So in this case, then that's great showing a lot of that, if I'm correct, If you're not looking for print work, is making sure that your portfolio aligns with the clients I really like this type project here. This is really interesting. I would definitely click into this This rescue pack is the one that feels with the rest of your work. I think that's okay it does just feel a bit odd I like down here, you're giving us some more context, So you gave us this quick And then if you keep scrolling, that extra context. That's And then you're of giving us You've been working through some awards, So if I like everything that I see so far, I can jump right in contact You have your phone number, your socials. So this is a really nice portfolio. You've hit all the key pieces. This is something to my bookmarks folder So nice job. It's actually something mentioning that I would save this That's a real thing that I do. So as an art director, when I'm looking to They just save resumes and portfolios And even if I don't end up hiring those So the next time I'm looking to hire someone or the next time I'm looking I just wanted to call that out if you leave a good impression, your portfolio, you'll definitely be or you even might get calls when the hiring manager needs So just something to keep in mind. All right. So next step we have Sense.hu. That's a cool name. I like that you've branded yourself I will say be nice to have your real name positions just so I can match up It would also be nice I like the you're kicking it off expanding this blurb a little bit Diving in a little bit deeper off I like that you jump right into the work. You have attractive thumbnails here some brand names with Lego, I like the typography in the American Quickly, take a look at one of these. So this is a nice hero image here in the background This is great You're identifying the problem, you created, and then results. So I love to see that. And then jumping straight it would be nice to see more examples It looks like type app, so maybe some images of people Just some beauty shots more visually interesting But overall, I think this is a really nice It gives me a nice range So would definitely be interested in So nice job. All right, I love the script logo I'm not sure if that's I like the swoops So immediately I'm getting that you understand typography So that's nice. It will be nice to include a mission just off the top, understanding of who you are The work is very eye catching. You've chosen some really nice mockups It's colorful. I will say there's no obvious way that I can see here on the home page. That's something I would definitely add. Maybe in the top rate Just your email address, however you prefer that potential clients Just make that really clear and easy Jumping into a project here, which is always nice These are beautiful mockups so I can see that you understand I will say that this only having so I would work on building these out more like case studies Really build them out, create some more talk about the results, what sort of like Do have metrics? What can you actually show here back. First impressions. I can tell that you are a good designer, Those are the things that really I'm So I would definitely do a deeper dive Nicely done. First impression, You're very quickly establishing So it's nice and friendly Approach to design. You're mixing So I like I like that a lot that you've statement is, what your elevator pitch And nicely done with that. You have some really nice thumbnails here. So I'm seeing a lot of apps and web, obviously what you're in So that's great that you've picked a lane and dove deep. I will say this Frontier app Maybe there's some optimization there but it's a beautiful, image to make So great job with this mockup here. I can tell that you understand typography you have between the title font It's very clean, easy to read. It entices me walking us through each step with So you're telling that story. You've added some motion here. This is really nice. animations, really clean, it's So good job with that. I love these icons that you have here. Yeah. So it's a beautiful portfolio piece. You did a great job walking us through different steps See, I really impressed with your work. Sam. Love your portfolio. Great job. All right. Next up, we have Andrew Gray. First off, this makes a really strong I can tell very much what your style It's this fifties atomic Radio Beacon badge logo you have So that's really cool that you have and you're leaning into that. So you're going to attract clients And that's really nice when the client knows what to expect I would recommend a blurb about yourself here at the top, just talking about that So that's one tweak I might make here. this eyeball animation is really cool. I like the you've added some motion, take a look at one of these projects. All right. So fire medieval hot sauce. I like that so you're highlighting So Just to get you excited off the bat, winning project, this is cool. So looks like maybe you did some some copywriting, You've really leaned So I love that you're showing us this That's really cool to see You I love to see that. So you're really telling that story This is exactly where I came from. My inspiration You can see the evolution of how it came from this beginning stage hear then talking through your rationale that's really cool that you have different So it's not just the logo, expanding the entire brand system and showing how the different colors This is really impressive. This is really well done. I can see that you understand and how to expand a project So I'm really impressed by this. again one of those key points your email address or phone number I'm assuming maybe have it on your page, to action on your portfolio Just make it easier Great work, Andrew. I love. the work. I love the style. You have a very clear direction and I really like to see that. So All right. Next up, we have Houlton Moates. That's a really cool animation with your name being written out. I will say it's a little bit slow. I had to wait to see what your name actually was for a few seconds, Also, I might replace elevator pitch here, and then maybe move This is a great way to present the work. I love the amount of whitespace you have. I love that you're not trying to take up so it shows that you understand or strain, So I really like to see that you have So you're making it easy for potential Let's take a look at one of your projects. So Pulse Then we start getting into the work. this is a lot of different layouts and it doesn't look like there's a way so I'd have a few more detail shots here so I can see the work that went into them, it's really hard for me to actually see the typography So definitely add And then another thing I like to call out is that instead of making me go to go to another project, The bottom of a project that just So say click here and that way I can just go through three Instead of having to scroll page, scroll back down to the next project So just a quick UI UX call out there a bit longer. overall impressive portfolio. Holden I really like what I saw. So again, I would definitely do a deeper dive on this one all right. Next step, we've got Joshua this is a great opening. It lets me know exactly who you are It's obvious that you do book design. You've done a really nice job of carrying you're using the Sarah fonts you might see in a book. This is a nice layout here where you have that you've designed. You're telling the story into different areas of the website, They want to see some more samples or they can look at services and just jump If they feel like they've seen enough. You're talking about but the interiors as well. of information This is really cool that you've included I will say it's not really obvious initially So I might add some sort of call out here because I think that's a really cool that a lot of people might be missing, bar I love that That's something I don't see There's a list of clients that just adds hiring you, that you've already worked So that makes it a lot easier for them to You also have a testimonial here, which is another great way So great job with that and then you keep the services and then you get into more calls So this is a really nicely laid out not just showing off work, So that's something I don't see a lot here's ten projects, here's But you've taken it a couple of steps We're not only are you showing the work, but you're actually selling services, for a newsletter, They're getting them So that's really nice that you're You're being very active So nice job with that. looking through some actual work here, It's cool that these different books but it feels like you've mastered This one's obviously very old timey and then you have this more modern showing off that range hiring you no matter what You're interjecting even more social proof I love to see that. Now you're starting to tell the story So this is really, really well done. then getting into book interiors and children's books. So it's cool that you've divided them out even from an SEO perspective. I'm sure that's helpful to where people See how some work. Joshua I think you've mastered the art of laying and the work is beautiful, so love it. All right. Next up, we have Sebastian. I like that you start off with this you're into branding I'm not even sure That's always a nice thing to say. your SD logo here becomes a little bit a little opacity top nav here In the bottom you have your resume, That makes it very easy to reach out take a look at a project. So the project is loading So that's something I would definitely look at is maybe look at lazy loading some of these take a long time for it to load were in here on the right and on the left, So something to optimize there. The work itself is beautiful. I like the art directed photos that you have here of someone You're showing us I love this overlay of this monoline Here you have over photos, how this applies to marketing efforts, I would probably take the context It's great that you have this, so as I'm browsing it would be great for me to have the context of knowing So in the back of my mind, going through the different assets to say, yeah, they accomplished these goals having it down the bottom, And now I have to go back with the context in mind, one thing to call out is that the work So up here at the top you have these and then scrolling down this one, feels out of place, I guess you could say, So this one might be one If you're looking to pare things down a little bit, There's not a lot of pieces, with the other So this one feels like that might look into eliminating Overall. Sebastian, very strong work. I really like what I saw All right. Up next, we have Clarissa. I love that you're starting us off You have a very clear You have your socials, checking all the boxes making it really easy for us to know who Looking at the actual work, I like that to have this clean grid background, looking at one of your projects here. The ability to scroll through a project You even have some page scrolling That's pretty cool. Talking about the project, that you have a call out subtitle here text. You talk through your role I love that you're showing research here This is a really cool call out that you have talking about what I really like that. so instead of just telling us the problem, into the first person point of view, That's really cool. And I love to see behind the scenes I will say this one in particular I get that concept thing but you might want to maybe recreate this just sit a little bit nicer I like seeing that you've thought so you've assigned different portions It looks very easy to read, so obviously you understand So I love to see that. Then even showing the app here, and actually didn't load. So that's something to Make sure this video works correctly. And this is really nice here at the bottom where you're just leading us So I love to see that. Nice work, Clarissa. I love the cleanliness of your portfolio. Just check on The video But I think this is All right. Next up, we have Shabab. My first thought is I would recommend So just having should be about my portfolio dot I would say just get like a real income It looks like you do a lot of digital I'll say out of these projects, feels like maybe it doesn't quite So just an initial thought, might be updating So take a look at one of the projects. this is a nice little animation is a great way to start us off. So you're showing us the inspiration That's really cool. Initially, like you obviously don't really So I think really important So great job with that. This mockup feels a little bit fake. I would say it's pretty obvious so might want to look at getting I feel like the concept is a little bit I feel like the logo is very organic, seeing the art direction feeling a lot more EDM and clubby So that's a bit at odds to me feel like it's from the same brand So might want to look at bringing those so kind of the same thing as the banner, It's very obviously a mockup, realistic lanyard This ticket is really nice. So yeah, I think this ticket mock up for as far as realism and quality And I think this would be in a good place. it would be nice down here at the bottom go back to the home Nice work. Should bib. I would just focus on cleaning up those mock ups, making them a little bit But overall great work. All right. Next up, we've got Steve Mudd. My initial reaction I like that it's minimal. I don't love like, overdesigned a little bit more design here, maybe a logo of some kind or a mark some context as well with a mission I do like the idea of contact From a work standpoint. This is a nice photo that you have here. So I think these are attractive projects. I think the animation on this social media The animation of the be coming down I would put some easing on it. So maybe look at changing out the for this project. Let's jump So definitely recommend It looks like this is just like one if I click into it and I have to go back So I'd make all of this And it looks like So this one, this long banner So I'd look at that to make sure same thing with this long banner here. So I either cut those or just make sure I also feel like this project the fern way typography, that you worked on, as far as the title font is a little bit So even if this was work for a client in your portfolio, more modern font to design it See, I like the simplicity I love the images that you've chosen. Just make sure that it's live text a bit more character Nice work, Steve. All right. We've got Ryan Walker's portfolio. I like that you're just hitting us It's big, it's bold, it's in-your-face. I'd be curious to see on a large screen it might be a little bit abrasive. So that's one danger of full width As if someone's using a 30 inch monitor, again, with a little elevator pitch So jumping in to a project here, some more context at the top Who are they talking about? The project. Talking about the problem about the results So all those things and just kick them off that way So I definitely make all this live text that's going to help out with readability, It's going to help out even with SEO. So definitely do that. I'll also say I'm scrolling down fairly and I still haven't seen any actual work It's mostly beauty images So maybe getting into the work a little bit earlier would be better. I'm also not seeing a ton of continuity you have here. I get that they're all holiday themes, But as far as having an overarching thread as far as common branding or some kind So that might be something to look out. I think for these images, these can be They look like which is okay, but for a portfolio, You really want it to be beautiful, sexy So if you're able to, same thing here where these look like So are directing these a little bit more and making sure This is also a really long project. So you might want to look at cutting some things just because there are so many different to get to the end. and then coming down here to the bottom, a lot of the images seen in this piece, I'm not sure what you actually worked on So you might want to cut the images that you didn't make I love that you're directing us into more projects Touch. Ryan, thanks so much Nicely done. All right, Nick Romano, This is very interesting. It's very different so that's cool. Just to stand out It's very modular. It feels very app like, You're a designer and developer They're calling out on each one of these project cards. So again, that's of tying back to, second mockup here, this flame It's a little bit fake, at a different mockup I love that you called out So I like the you're adding the actual script here of Nature Kind of getting the same thing here there just feels a little bit So I might look at updating these jumping into a project here I like these colors. Magenta on the darker green. I really like the frog hand you have here as a, as an icon This is actually like a PDF you can click That's cool and show I will say it would be nice It would also be nice to call this out. I just randomly clicked it, that it was going to be interactive. So I want to make that a little bit I would probably either right or left Having it centered copy like this is a nice mockup Same thing here where I think this text left aligned I like these mock ups that you've chosen. These are well art directed, And then you carry us So great job there. I was curious with this view site looks like this is your agency website your personal portfolio this portfolio feels a lot more modern, So you might want to replicate on your personal portfolio website I love that you've got social proof So I think this website is, is hitting on a lot of those key that you should be replicating again I love how unique this is. All right. Next up, we have, to just start off with a blurb. Like I keep saying, just because I have so many of these tabs your name is, as a hiring director, again, and you don't have a name on it, to hunt and find I like the simplicity of this layout. it's nice that it's all about the work really showcasing the different brands I like the a nice number that doesn't You obviously have a very specific niche with sports brands, so that's great So opening up a project here, I think that's okay because we started It'd be nice because it looks like you have a ton of different projects, So it's it sounded like So talking about what you achieved what were your key metrics, that would really help drive home the impact that you made I like that you can tell So you did a great job throughout all these different assets I can tell that you know how to take for a lot of different assets, So that's great to showcase nice work. Ivan Again, I might just add a little bit and your homepage, but All right. Next up about Zac Bynes designs. I really like your logo. This is very interesting and unique, So it's definitely different than a lot of the logos these days So I like that you're owning that initially in these first few pieces, we're I would definitely recommend for this project because it's very hard It looks like it's some sort of like dragon with a shield, It's really tough I'm not sure what this project is It's a bit chaotic, so might look at a And then you've got a lot of work here, try to trim this down So of look at these to figure out and what your weakest ones are, and maybe cut a couple of those So it's nice you're giving us this context off the top, to read being all uppercase, So I would definitely recommend font for large bodies of text And just because all those things this amount of text. it looks like these are posters So for these posters they're pretty huge. So it's a little bit difficult you might include some detail shots alongside a zoomed out just so I can get a more zoomed out As far as typography in these, there's a ton of fonts happening here like Girls Logo, which already has Then you have Southeast Asia you have spring tah Then you have this all under case Then you have all these different logos. So for this piece it just feels like And usually I like to aim for, let's say you might want to look at maybe and toning down the number of fonts or using a little bit to make it And then down here we're seeing we're seeing this really thick squished We're seeing this more thin, modern So definitely of create using three fonts and use that and that'll show that you understand that throughout all the different pieces. Whereas right now it feels like you started from scratch and start felt right for that particular piece. It would also be nice to show off here for this being like social media ads to show off some results as far as these This is the engagement, Those metrics are really important to show the was working correctly. sounds like I love the logo. I love I have a perspective but as far as the portfolio, I might tone down the number of projects and then look at the typography and make sure that you're establishing next up, we have Jade. this animation is a really fun way I really like that. It's eye catching. You talk us through so you have these little toolbars to the Jay in your logo. I believe that might be something your navigation took quite when I opened up your hamburger navigation There. This is fun that you have it So I do like that this crop on your face Just seeing your teeth. So you might want to re crop that. I'm not sure if this is maybe responsive based on the but here on my desktop I also think up here and the top right this being a plus is a little confusing Usually to close a hamburger menu, So the plus maybe think but that's actually the close. I like that that's definitely something for the body. I'll say here on the left, which is a really nice touch, But then here serif flicking font, you might want to look at just to make sure and then here we're seeing where it's more old style serif I might just of pick a direction and having these two fonts competing with one So opening up this project, I'm not sure. Okay, there we go. So this took about 8 to 10 seconds I definitely look at optimizing this image to make sure that they load really quickly don't think that the website is broken talking about what tools are used love that you're starting us off and then showing some fast shots So this is really cool that you've created So you can see how the pages interact So that's a really a really nice touch I think rather than using a YouTube link, playing video that self-hosted that would make it nicer to where and wait for it to load, That would be another nice And then down here in the footer, you have your email nice and big, you can have this all star animation So that's really nice. Say hi, don't bite. I like you're adding some humor, I will say here in the bottom left, I'm not quite sure So to me it's a little bit confusing. maybe taking another look at that and making a little bit clearer I love the amount of character I like that. It's a bit different than a lot of the definitely stands out So nice work. Great. All right. So with that, Ariel Thomas here, looks that's something that I think I think a problem that Behance is that the more you post, and they likely aren't all the strongest better over time. So by nature, Behance is showing So that is a reason I don't like In my opinion, Behance is a bit better to find clients to get work, standalone website a little bit better You know, the thing with that too It looks a little bit more professional. So another benefit as far as the actual work goes, it looks So it's nice that you have clear niche I will say this fixed my AC rebrand it's standing out So again, on Behance, that's a problem So you have this really well curated a couple of odds and ends in there So like they're starting us off I will say that it feels a bit messy. I'm not exactly sure so might want to look where you take us through each all on one big canvas and it ends up So here we're seeing you do that One, two, three. see, this is nice where you're showing the concept sketch of the final asset. I do think this could be cleaned up Were the illustrations a little bit messy? The typography feels a little bit a little bit dated. So maybe using a bit making sure that it's not getting path there. And I think we're seeing a lot of those like a messier illustration, I get that you're going for that vibe. But I think this middle piece that where it's messy, whereas here on the left and the right, So taking this ethos and applying it I think would be a big help. And then down here, these mockups They feel a little bit flat, especially the drop shadows So using more realistic mockups I think you're starting to do that here These feel a lot better than these So nice work, Ariel. I love the illustrations. I would recommend getting a stand alone more of story at the beginning and then curating the work down All right, Yash. So I see we have another Behance portfolio again, I think having a standalone is definitely a lot more professional, and it gives you a lot more control It seems like so might want to look into adding As far as your thumbnails go. It would be great for this one Just being a photo, I'm not exactly sure off the bat what your involvement Clicking into a project here, starting off I'll say that you have context here You're adding more as part of this image. So you may want to remove this part all one intro text Instead of having two intros, basically, a 3D model here, so that's a nice touch The 3D model itself is a little bit just being a rectangle, right? So it honestly might be more impactful really nice mockups here of the box from I think that might be more impactful I'm not sure it's having the coming down to the Instagram ads. It's nice that these are animated. Definitely visually interesting. They will say having a ton of them on to appreciate the animation It's a little bit distracting. So you might want to just feature two whichever ones you think are Instead of having so many. And the same thing down here, so maybe you just do where you show off these at a high level. But I would look at toning this down that you think are the most impactful, professional way, maybe on some phone Here I think you're showing too much work, back and focus more on quality This is a nice pop up on Behance. It's been a while but this little available for hire pop up That's a nice touch too, where they can just get in touch with you immediately So that's a pretty cool feature there. moving on to Igor. We're seeing another Behance portfolio. So again, I think on your own custom website would be more Looking at the work here, So again, another issue with Behance, for an actual portfolio, I would say You want to focus on 6 to 8 really high where this is a lot of projects even photo dumps of more projects So I would definitely look at creating your own standalone portfolio Right now you've got a really, really wide on a few really high quality projects that even one of these So again, just cleaning this up, and it's really curated. So I know exactly what to look at Looking at this Candle projects, I like all the smoke here. This is nice. They're showing off the different lockups So like that This is fun that you're using the the Fortnite text for the brand text here. So I know this you mentioned That's a nice tie in. These are nice mockups here of little These images are cool. Like I like the label designs I like. Do you have photography? the fact that they're not all art problematic where you have like You have zoomed out shots on a white background, you have word So having all these images be really well, from different angles, that would make it look a lot more professional, better in a portfolio. And then the same thing here, we're seeing some daylight shots, The lighting is different. So again, just art directing these, making sure the mockups all look the same, Now we're seeing that again down here grainy shots, So that's very stylized, But that's not necessarily carried where these are very clean So just keeping things consistent there. then down here, this is getting a little bit confusing So adding some more context here talking about how they expanded and things like that as well just because without that context, it almost feels like we're just on So that's a little bit jarring I don't love saying and stuff here. It feels a little bit unprofessional. I get that this is like a gaming brand, I don't know if I would love that. And then we're seeing merch bags So this is cool that you have all this. It does feel like a lot, I would add some more context about why we're seeing different things This because this is a very long project along the way. I would definitely recommend Next up, we've got Cameron Nettles, When you come here, you have this It does look like it skipped, So that's something that I would if you're going to have an animation Otherwise, it's pretty jarring This title Fun you're using where the fins are so thin instead of an E, So you might want to look at that has the same vibe, because that's definitely so here I like that I will say having it be this wide makes It might be better to add some margins less wide, a little bit more tall I would also recommend left of your navigation Down here you have another about section, where you have this intro, which presumably would be about you So maybe combining those two together more valuable screen real estate here and then you're talking through So this is nice, but I probably wouldn't Once people see the work that's when they want to know They don't really want because at this point they don't even know Coming down to your portfolio, YouTube page maybe self hosting this video to where it's like a nice, say This is cool, this is your demo reel So yeah, I would probably put this self-hosted make it have a poster frame and just let people start off with this Coming down and this work is a little bit odd. I would probably add a title here if this is a different section these mock ups are nice. They are all a little bit So that really makes it obvious So you might want to look into using different angles just to make it feel a bit so odd that I can't click into any of these they're broken pages, that these are linking to projects And then down here, I'm assuming these are So I would add some context there as well. Just say like past clients and then Maybe just stack six of them Right now these feel like really big So I price scale those down. It's nice you have a contacts down here. I would also just add your email on a footer as well just If I don't want to use this form So yeah, nice site. I would just clean up the UI ux a bit, move the about put your demo reel at the top and Next up I would definitely add your name up here really easy for me to know who you are Add that mission statement, your elevator pitch here at the top So I would definitely look at expanding So clicking into one of these projects, and you're telling a story, but this is So I would look into starting off then show us some work and then tell us some more work, then talk about the issues So break it up piece by piece really telling us that story from concept to completion. From a work standpoint, It's like you have more text I would look into adding I like this hardhat and the building. Those are really nice, Add some more mockups, really come to life and you're heading in the right direction. You just need to spend a bit more time. All right. Next up, we have a nurse. Dana, I hope I'm saying that correctly. First off, it's very different. It's interesting So I guess people can know when you're unless you're super busy and backed up little bit odd if it just says It's nice that this project I will say that if this is a full width it might be a little bit aggressive to Another thing here, Is this copyright in the bottom? Right? First off, it's the wrong year. So I'd say if you're going to have that, I'm not sure it's adding a ton. Being there as it is, the work looks nice. One thing I'm seeing here with these this is starting to get I'm not sure if these images are being So that's something to think about. This is a really nice project here. So this has a ton of character, I love the colors. It's very modern. So this project to me because this is really popping out to me. Whereas this one, for instance, You can tell these clips are fake, be switched up a little bit the same thing with these t shirts here. So I think you maybe where I would put this project This looks like another nice project. So and in this one as well. So it feels like you have your best work I would make sure that you're putting and then potentially If you think you maybe have one or two I think you might be able to eliminate Coming into a project is really wide even for the body font, the kerning on the the body font here I like that you're starting us off I love the stats here. That's something that a lot So great job there. And again, I love the typography. The colors are really nice. This is great. there's a really nice style guide So yeah, this is a beautiful project. So I definitely put this nice work. All right. Next up, we've got Zakaria. love that you're starting off One thing is look at the capitalization here, You might also want to add a bit This is a little bit tough to read with Looking at the work. Having it all be black and white is challenging Everything is bland, so I might recommend hover state and then using the black Just keep it a bit more interesting. It's also a bit odd that this overlay I'm not sure if that's a mistake or in that regard. hopping into a project here, I probably use that screen real estate This also feels like tightening that up background image This is nicer It does feel like a good bit of context So maybe breaking this up throughout the portfolio and then just making sure So here you have a colon, here you have a colon, So just making sure that you have a style and how the body copy looks So like they are walking us through for the logo, showing us the color palette That's nice. This is a pretty cool mock up here the bottle. I would look at just telling the story throughout and in the back on the home page, a bit, making sure that your hover states And yeah, nice work. My first reaction is that this image here is very small It looks like you're telling us I'm not sure that's super relevant. Telling us who made an Adobe I guess you could say. I'm not sure clients really care in, initially less about these different programs make it more about the work, make it more So far as your hover states from a UI UX perspective, I would definitely change When you hover over your different it looks like you do a lot of like sketching and coloring and watercolor So that's really cool. I'm not sure if that's the type of clientele so if it's not, I would probably recommend And yeah, overall I would say like this header up here box feels a out of place to me. Some of the font choices and things like that feel a bit dated, and just showcase again 6 to 8 projects remove used to create it Focus on showcasing them in the best light looking mockups and tell the story Because right now the image with no context. So I don't know what these are for. What was the client, what was the brief? Did you solve a problem? What results did you get? So I definitely recommend rather than just images, just as images All right. So next up, we have Lauren Jones. So my first impression is that your logo's and the J. I see it, but without knowing. Your name is Lauren Jones. Looks like you have a pretty large I generally like what I'm This is a really nice hero image. I like these 3D trees. This is like a really fun layout This typography is pretty tough to read. Some of the lines they are versus bumpy. that might be something to clean up. I like these custom images These are really fun. This is really nice. I love the big foot hand here. This is nice. So you have like these typography lines this is a really nice project. I like the art directed photos. I like how you're showing what the game is interacting with it. I like the big foot icon here, You have a lot of attention to detail. I think up at the top talking through what it is, Just so as we're looking through, we have that mindset I can tell you're a talented designer, Just even looking at that look at the number of projects Again, 6 to 8. It's probably that sweet spot Just looking at thumbnails so just something to consider. There. All right. Next up, we have Paula Arif. My initial thought is I like that you have these flat colors It really helps each project be set apart, As we've touched on you don't really have a mission statement that really tells me who you are, So it'd be nice taking a look at one of these projects This is really fun that you've put them like an endgame menu I really like that. I love that you have these auto animate having to sit here So that's a nice touch. I love that you've color coded this whole sometimes with these They're usually just gray So adding the color really makes it and it lets me very quickly understand So nice job with that. I love this behind the scenes where we actually like printed things out That's really cool. I can see here you've really thought and then you did some like low fidelity and then showing how So you're doing a great job through each step. So yeah, nice project again It be great if you just but I love your creative presentation, Really strong work. All right. Next up, It looks like your SSL So it's one thing to look at having on rankings and just makes your site I'm a little confused by the title I guess maybe that means you're a creative director, it's great that you do start off with this blurb though, looking at your projects here. I'm seeing a lot of out of home advertising, so it's nice the visuals are really strong. I love these mockups. this is some really nice So clicking into a project, It looks like this is just like one huge So make sure that's like a optimized JPEG appropriately for the web. is nice to give us a little bit of context more in the problem I like this large color palette here Okay. So you do list the challenge So that's nice that you're giving us Some really nice typography. I like that. It's animated. You're showing us the title case This is really nice. I assume these are custom illustrations These look create. And again, you're giving us this chunk piece of information to tell that story This animation here so you might want to slow that down the speed it is right now, it's So something to consider there. Yeah, this is a really clean project. I it's obvious that you understand through the different steps. You showed a really complete something nitpicking here at the bottom. We can see that these Instagram posts quite evenly, I like that down here at the bottom That's really nice. So yeah, I can tell you have a great So nice work. All right, next step we have Miuccia. I hope I'm saying that correctly. So I'm generally not a huge fan personally of like these large dumps Just personally, I like seeing process, I like more case study approaches So we can actually take a look But that's just a personal preference Sometimes with the dumps, it just feels which just makes the design It looks like one of these projects And then down here I'm personally a fan of breaking those up instead of having your photography I like that you have a motif here for a lot of the different projects, so All right. Let's take a look So this is just a logo dump. I'm assuming I like this one a lot. There's a lot of character It's nice. It's just half of it, the shadow side, A here. This is fun with like the this little shadow in the bottom left here Something to think about there. But love this background image. I'm not quite sure of the symbolism One's a bit lost on me. There, this is fun as well with the coffee cup and you get the coffee So that's a really clever device. There's a really nice mark here. It gives me like a boathouse feeling. I assume this is like some gate But really clean works there. this one feels a little bit funky to me. It seems like a bunch of shapes I'm not sure if that's intended So that's what I was alluding to before, where maybe that's intentional but without that context, And it just looks like a mistake. so you may want to think about taking the two or three best logos studies with mockups and showing of just the logo, and then talking and why they look the way that they do. so yeah, this is nice work, but again, there's bound to be some So that's another downside to these large Again, it's all about curating. It's all about showing only the best work as good as the worst piece. All right. Next up, we have no McPhail. So from a logos standpoint, this Jade Slick studios The typography here is not super strong so this one's not doing a lot for me. the same thing with every bloomin thing. Rebrand So for logos, you want to make sure they're very simple, So for example, this G6 Studios, I think it's going to start for example, a social profile So something to think about standpoint is to make sure I really like these last two projects These are really nice thumbnails. This calendar is showing so to me, just looking at thumbnails, like your two strongest projects, to the top and maybe removing one that you feel like might not be as strong. clicking into this calendar design. It's nice they're giving us Could probably use a little bit more. Looking at the photos, balances set the same the white balance is set And then here on the right it's And then we're getting an orange. So art directing these photos look very consistent from one photoshoot, That's one way to make this And I would get some really nice close up shots of this stuff as well. Like show off the really fine details. I think this could do All right. And last but not least, So just off the bat, it looks like a lot So you have a niche that you've worked in. It does look like you've expanded the main theme that I'm seeing here. So it looks like each of these So that's something I would definitely say be a single image, So choose your six best, Give us some context Why did you make the design decisions What was the problem that you were solving And then walk us Whenever I'm just looking at a logo, how to use Illustrator. this has some nice typography, hard for me to really understand For this one, it's So that's another tip where on this one looks like you have four So I would limit that probably and that would help And as we've make sure that you have your elevator Make sure that you have an email Just make it really easy But overall, nice work. All right. I hope you're able to take some of these tips to apply them to your own design to land that dream job let me know in the comments and be sure to draw up a link If you'd like me to review your portfolio Thanks for tuning in. Now