(gentle dramatic music) - Your olive oil may not claims to be. - [Johnny] A couple years the police were spying on (Person speaking Italian) - [Johnny] Their undercover footage shows these large tanker trucks They started tracking and found that the trucks They were delivering this oil to markets and restaurants in Germany. They were selling it to buyers who thought that they were buying high quality extra virgin olive oil from the best olive regions in the world. (suspenseful music) After many months of this investigation the police finally and what they found is were importing cheap seed oil that cost them just but then they were coloring to make it look like olive oil. They even had the machinery and to label it with the important words extra virgin olive oil with a nice little Italian flag on it. At the height of their operation they were selling around to customers in the north that they bought this cheap seed oil for. The police estimated that around 8 million euros a year. In the end, 24 people were arrested and 150,000 liters of fake (Reporter speaking Italian) (gentle music) - Good olive oil is really hard to make. It's delicate, it's hard but when you get the real it's really healthy and delicious. And from the mafia in southern Italy to mainstream olive oil brands olive oil is full of fraud and deception. In fact, there's a chance that you've never actually even if you think you have. So let me show you how this happened and why it even matters. And how you can get in on the real stuff, real extra virgin olive oil. 'Cause I'm telling you, when it's unlike any substance on earth. (upbeat music) I've been working out lately, which when I started this I could do one, now I can do 10. and that's because of CoPilot. CoPilot is this platform where you get paired up with and you communicate via a very well designed app. My coach is named Devyn and he's great and I've told him all about my goals. I wanna be able to lift my body, I want to just have a and not like grueling and he designed a custom So every day when it's time to work out I open up this app, I press start workout, it fires it up on my watch and on my phone and I start working out, I There's like video so that it's crystal clear and then it moves you What this does is, number one it gives you a real person which is just so much better that you're like watching and no one else knows CoPilot found that people to stick to a workout routine that they have to stand accountable to. Nine times, which is it it makes sense. Number two, it allows you exactly to what you want. Oh, and at the end of every workout I'm able to give feedback and be like, &quot;Hey Devyn, I think it was too easy today on the arms. Can we make it harder?&quot; And he the next day has coded in a new workout that is harder on the arms. The other thing this does Like I think the killer of Like you're like, &quot;So And with CoPilot, you just press a button and it tells you what to start with, which for me at like six in the morning when I'm working out because I don't want to think, I And CoPilot makes that happen I try my best to actually use the products that I endorse here on this channel. Obviously this is a business, I need to sponsor these videos so that we can make good journalism, but also like I've used this for 10 months and I can vouch for it, it's So there's a link in my description. It is go.mycopilot.com/Johnny-Harris, just click the link, it but it also gives you 14 days for free with your own personal fitness coach. So that you can design your own workout and have somebody to stand accountable to and make those workout Thank you CoPilot for and for existing and for Let's get back to our story (upbeat music) Most olive oil in the world is made here in these sunny climates Thousands of years ago, that juicing the fruit produces a golden oil that's like magic. They adored this tree. Its branches were worn or a victorious olympian. It was an olive branch that told Noah that the flood was over. Over the centuries it became a sacred tree with a sacred fruit that It was food, it was medicine, it was fuel, it was a cosmetic, it was a for people of the Mediterranean The rest of the world didn't know much about this special oil until the 1960s when an American doctor was of over 13,000 middle aged He found that the people of and were generally healthier, despite being ravaged by war and poverty. He concluded that it must fish, nuts, vegetables, and, of course, copious amounts of olive (upbeat music) Soon word spread to the rest of the world that this Mediterranean diet and that olive oil was a key ingredient. It's the '70s and '80s and everyone is talking about olive oil. - Major health headline here tonight and it involves a very popular diet, the Mediterranean diet full of olive oil. - Olive oil. - Olive oil - Extra virgin olive oil. - What is the best olive oil? - A little olive oil, or - Between 1958 and 2019, global production of olive oil tripled. Demand in the United States exploded. Olive oil is no longer a regional thing. By the 1990s this has become a huge international supply chain Serving customers around the to pay a lot more for this The stuff that scientists was saying was an elixir of health and longevity. - You can combine what to what is really taste. And people, of course, they are quick to grasp the importance with good health. - [Johnny] Suddenly these in rural parts of southern Italy have international customers clamoring to get in on their product. So they start selling who can take it and sell it to a co-op. The co-op gets all the oil together and then sells it to another co-op who eventually sells it to a company who bottles it and then ships to be put on grocery store shelves. This complex supply chain comes with a lot of opportunities for people to take advantage for this magical, expensive oil. But to understand olive oil fraud you first really have of extra virgin olive oil. (mysterious music) Every winter at farms farmers head to their groves of these ancient trees so that this delicate as it falls to the ground The clock immediately starts ticking. Within 24 hours they must to the mill where the olives are crushed and then spun in a centrifuge No heat, no filters, Just high quality olives quickly then bottled, then crucially and ideally consumed within 18 months. It's a delicate resource intensive and even more so when you then have to But it's really the only way that we call extra virgin olive oil. The stuff that's good for your heart, for your brain, for your bones. The stuff that tastes This stuff is so good. And this is where I tell you that most olive oil is kind of a lie. Sometimes a white lie and other times a mafia is So first things first, Italian If you look at this price you'll see that it's than the olive oil coming in this space, Spain and Greece. Italian olive oil is more expensive, not only because it is but also because it's Italy. Italy is Italy, it looks like this. It's food looks like this. Italy has the perception of being the gourmet food So people, including me, for Italian extra virgin olive oil because it's good and it's from Italy. On that point, let me show First look where most It's the darker areas down here. And second, let's look where the mafia is most present. Right down here next to this The regions with the highest are the regions where the mafia is and this is where it all comes together. There's this ancient trading city right on the toe of the boot. (gentle dramatic music) The Calabrian Mafia, one of controls this busy port in this city. They also control or influence much of the farmland in this In 2016, this mafia clan was chemically treated They would then bottle this up and label it as extra even though it was like chemically treated and not from Italy. But then they would ship this olive oil to importers in New York Importers who thought they were buying the best olive oil in the world from the best region in the world. But really they were paying for cheap oil and giving huge profit margins to the mafia committing this fraud. The Italian food police, which eventually busted this scheme. - [Reporter] We arrest of street gangs in Calabria. - Olive oil is hard to detect as fake. It kind of all looks the same. You have to have a trained eye to know if like the color is off. Most people aren't drinking olive oil, they're cooking with it or and they're kind of just and that it's giving them health benefits. And a lot of people don't really know what good olive oil tastes like. So olive oil fraud is particularly easy. And particularly lucrative, because of the premium price that good extra virgin olive oil commands. Because of this Italy has dedicated to food fraud, and they're regularly Some of them are less extreme than the ones we've talked about. A really common one is people will ship in olive oil from Spain, they and then they will put a label that says that it's Italian olive oil and they will sell it at a higher premium because Italian olive oil But oftentimes it's even Olive oil companies will with old or decaying oil that have been sitting for like a couple of weeks and they're like, eh, we will and call it extra virgin olive oil. And it's not, it's a different thing. Again, this is a really with lots of opportunities and change it from this delicate liquid called extra virgin olive and it's really hard to detect. A lot of this olive oil ends with a photo of a humble Italian farmer in an idyllic landscape or premium selection with that don't mean anything. I mean listen, these could all be legit but I don't know because here in the US we actually have no enforcement standards. Luckily scientists have tested this. One of the first big tests on this was from researchers at UC They went out and bought from stores in California. They tested them to see for extra virgin olive oil of imported olive oil that was claiming to be extra virgin failed to meet the sensory standards where and can tell if it's And of those 31% failed to meaning they were too acidic. A lot of this stuff is not Now I'm sure I'm gonna get an email from people in the olive oil industry saying that this study because it was only a sample size of olive oil in stores in California. But this was actually just over the years that have Most of the olive oil on our shelves claiming to be that amazing golden liquid that is delicately produced and stored and contains the fullness of the taste and the health benefits of olives, AKA extra virgin olive oil, most of these labels are lying. Now most of the oil in these Like there's not a lot of that fraud where they're like taking seed oil and pretending that it's olive oil that's been clamped down on. Still happens, but not very often. But again, it being made from olives is not what makes extra It is the way that it's made. It's the way that it's processed. It's how quickly they take and they press it and bottle This oil is not that. It is not extra virgin anymore. And yet they slap a feel like we're getting the best stuff and we're getting it for a good price. You would be in big labeling it as such in Italy and a lot of European countries. But wait, why haven't these companies who are doing it in the United Because in America we don't care. Whereas in Italy they literally when you label something and it's not. Here in the US, we have no laws for this. Companies don't have to prove that it's extra virgin. They can just import them and slap on extra virgin to the label and no one can do anything about it. Between this and the probably don't know what extra virgin olive so they don't know what to expect. The US has become what one expert calls the dumping grounds for olive oil that says it's extra virgin and it's not. So is there any hope here? Can you ever try the real stuff extra virgin olive oil that Yes you can. It exists. You just need to know what to look for. We put together a list of tips on how you can find legitimate and know that you're I'm gonna put the link in the description. It's everything from the material that the bottle is made out of to the nuances in the and the date labeling, the quality seals. We also give you some ideas that companies try to fake it to try to make it look So that link is in a description. If you want to try extra virgin olive oil and get your hands on it and because spoiler alert it is more expensive than the fake stuff that's then you can go check out that doc and hopefully it's helpful. The point is that it is possible and I guess if you're still you're wondering why is this so important? Like why are we talking about And there are a couple answers. Number one is that this is a It's a tradition that in the Mediterranean The harvesting and pressing of olive oil, good olive oil And when you mix capitalism with that you often get a race to the the bottom on who can make it the cheapest so that they can make the most money. And inevitably you will get opportunistic people who try to trick you to make you think that it's the real thing so that you'll pay for it. And this hurts the producers who are actually doing the of harvesting and processing And at the end of the day, to Good extra virgin olive oil A few years ago I discovered that I had never actually So I bought my first bottle. It was kind of expensive, it was like $25 and I started using it on everything. I even started drinking it raw because I'm kind of weird and I'm sorry, but it's just delicious. And I started to understand for so many cultures in the Mediterranean. Why it's like a part of Why it has endured as a And I guess in knowing how I actually understand why fraudsters and the mafia got involved here, why they tried to deceive us into thinking that we are consuming the most magical liquid on (upbeat music) Thanks for watching the video. Am I too obsessed with olive oil? Is that a thing? Because I'm, I just really like it and I just had to make this video because I just am like I think this video was me being obsessed with olive oil and also me being so frustrated at when the international with opportunistic corporations. Like those two things coming So thank you for watching. I hope you get in on the the how to buy good olive oil doc that we put together in the description. I wanna thank those who support which is our Patreon. We obviously do which is a major way that But in addition, The Newsroom has become a community of the independent journalism and I'm deeply appreciative of that. Over on The Newsroom, you can get access to a that we do every month that shows you what we're up just sort of gives you And then you also get You get access to Tom but more importantly you get access to the warm fuzzy feeling independent journalism on YouTube. So I think that's why most is because it is supporting Other ways you can support, which are how we color I made a map poster that I really like. That's super cool and fun. And if you have purchased it, so you can show me what it We launched a new channel that's probably a huge thing Search Party is a new We launched it with my Sam Ellis, the creator of Vox Atlas. He now has his own channel and it is in collaboration with us and we are all working So Search Party is live. I think those are all the here in this little end part of the video. I'm looking forward to and your comments. I always appreciate the back and forth and the dialogue and the And thank you CoPilot for, Thank you all for being here. I'll see you in the next one. (gentle music)