On the borders of China, the city of Gongshan is slowly awakening. Before starting work, collective dance class It's 7am and the only collective taxi leaving Phung returns to the village. He is going to find his grandmother, Put it up there. He brings her back a prize gift. A pig But given the state of the road, he's scared Serves my pig's cage well, it must not fall. Either way he's gonna be sick Be careful, it is precious. If he Near the Burmese border, it is Chang, the driver, always brings a can back to the village. He is sure to be able to sell it for double the price. Since China took off economically 30 years ago, The road network has grown considerably. The government has opened roads Titanic works to open up isolated villages where only horses could provide supplies. We will take about 7 hours to cover the 96 kilometers. The road that leads to the village of Phung Chang, the driver, borrows it once a week. - Will the journey be difficult? Is the road dangerous? Recently there was an accident, a child died. But don't worry, I'm driving on This lost road in the middle of the Duong valley is the only means of access between China, Burma and Tibet. Be careful, you must not stay there, You have to stay focused because if Here, you learn by yourself, we drive by instinct. On this part of the road there is The Duong Valley is still a wild place. Watch out for the snake, it's dangerous! Thousands of square kilometers of inhabited jungle Recently, in the valley, we discovered Wealth that fuels lusts They are the new adventurers of China. That's worth the money, man! It's already been 1 hour since the collective taxi left the big First jolt, first crossing Hi friend ! Be careful, there is a huge traffic jam up there. What is happening ? It's blocked. There is a landslide. - On the road ? The road is unstable and landslides are frequent. Impossible to continue without taking precautions. It is necessary to warn a relative and him In case help should intervene. Here is the last place where Hello darling? Don't worry, the But the villagers are going to clear it with dynamite. Do you seem worried? No, it happens often, but when it's too serious, We can get stuck for up to two days. Look, it's up there the landslide at 3400 meters. The taxi disappears into the clouds. The road becomes narrow. The vertiginous cliffs. When you drive on this road, it Check your brakes and steering column carefully. And above all, you must not be tired to stay focused. Because if you are clever, you fall directly into the ravine! It is in this tunnel that there is the landslide. And what are you going to do? We don't know. We have to go The tunnel was dug in the 80s, For 30 years, the inhabitants of the valley have taken 400 meters of danger, especially during the monsoon, when Be careful ! Roll more smoothly. It's difficult, the wheels slip. Here, this is where the stones fell. We'll see what we can do, if we can help. Come on, let's go down, let's go down! Have you seen this construction site? All these stones It is the ceiling of the tunnel that has collapsed. Go break it! Hit harder please. Well over there it's clear. On the other hand here the trucks will not pass. We're not about to go out! Please dig there. And the light! Who cut his engine? We can not To avoid draining the batteries with their headlights, Ten men have been working tirelessly since the beginning of With the risk that the walls collapse again. Phung and another passenger depart Outside too, there are people waiting. There are plenty. Do you have a cigarette? You have been waiting for a long time ? Me, I just arrived. And do you often take the tunnel? I commute three times a week, But this year, it's worse with these Water seeps in and the tunnel collapses. Accustomed to travel on this unpredictable road, Passengers take their troubles patiently. Inside the tunnel, the trucks try to force their way through. Advance. Glue on the right. Watch your wheel there! Go ahead, back up, back up, back up. Watch out for your retro there. No, no, let it go, you will never pass. The truck does not pass. These beams need to be cleared. These beams are the only reinforcements in the tunnel. And yet, in defiance of danger to expand At the risk of causing another landslide. Phung is leading the operation. We no longer have a choice, we have to cut our beams. This is the only way to widen the passage. Go ahead, move on. Go again, again! Do not be scared. Without the beams, drivers are worried. They are afraid that the vibrations of the trucks will After 2 hours of waiting, the collective taxi escapes in turn. He still has 50 kilometers to go. But he hasn't made the cut yet Higher in the mountain, along the road, Shouts, to warn of danger. They are lumberjacks. They bring down Isolated in the middle of the jungle, the men of this camp of On a daily basis, they cut, debit, dozens of trees. It is an extremely difficult job, The path becomes very slippery. Maolin is a veteran, eight years in the business. Today, he is accompanied by Yung Fu and Li, his two nephews. During the holidays, the children accompany him You see, you have to be very careful when the trunk So stay on your guard. For me, the children, I make them It's easier for them. Do you like doing that? No, it's tiring. It's really dumb as a job. How much do you earn? 10EUR per week. A tiring, dangerous but well paid job. These children earn EUR40 per month, i.e. After cutting, the children load the charcoal ovens. You have to put the wood well at the bottom, along the stones. And on the other side, we light the fire. This is where the embers are placed to heat the wood. Under the heat of the embers, the logs go Today, Maoline goes back down to the village to But that's without counting on the vagaries of nature. During the monsoon, it can rain up to 8 hours a day. First, the rain must not last too long 2 hours later, Maoline takes advantage of a small lull. - Come on, put on your plastic properly, please. It's raining and you have to protect your coal, Do you often go down to the village? We do at least three round trips between the road and here. Come on, let's go kids! 2 hours of descent on a steep and slippery path with five kilos of coal on the back for the children and fifteen for Maoline. However, there is no question of slowing down. You have to get to the village quickly But impossible to keep up. After 30 minutes, pain The little family is forced to take a break. - How are you ? We have coal falling in our But the most dangerous are the stones that Come on, we've wasted enough time, we're off again. It is below this village that They have to cross the river to reach the road. But for this, Yung Fu went for an indispensable tool. This is my pulley to cross the river. - It's yours ? 'Cause the only way to cross the river It measures about fifty meters and allows Against half an hour of additional walking A year ago, the cable took the life of an adult. Since then, no child has crossed alone without Since we had the accident, we've been careful with At the time, the cable had broken, a But now we have a new cable. - If you fall, what do you do? Come on, serve your legs well around the basket. Hold me a little longer. The basket spins! Yung fu ran out of momentum. He finds himself It is their great fear at each passage. Stuck with too heavy a load Come on, help me kids. Maoline sells her charcoal on the side of the road. One yen per kilo, or 1 euro cent. Risks for a few yen, but he Because Maoline's point of sale is A must for new adventurers. Ding way and what is called an ore hunter. With his workers, he surveys the I prospect for tin, lead in wild places like here, and it's far from easy to find. Today, Ding Way, goes to check that Six months ago he invested a lot of money in a mine. He hopes to find lead there. If he discovers any, he will become a millionaire in a few months. But the ascent to fortune is far from easy. But what did they do here? It's serious ? No, not too much, but it's hard to say, There he lifts the truck to slide There is no other way out of there. Heavily laden with food and men, This truck has been slowly getting stuck since early morning. Somehow, the passengers try to free the wheels. How's it going there? Hurry up ! With the rain, we sink deeper and deeper. Ding way loses patience. They have to get moving and decide to take matters into their own hands. Take care of the wheel and stop digging here, it's no use. Now we need more stones. Ding Way leads, gives orders but No question of carrying a stone. Stop, it's going to rain! Must try to leave now! I hope we will get there. Come on, let's all push! Feet in the mud, face in the pot Come on ! Everyone in the truck. We take the road again. Ding Way knows well the vagaries of this kind of track. When I was fifteen, I was a truck driver. And what exactly are you carrying? I was going to get the wood and the granite And drive a truck on this kind of road, Have you ever had major problems? Yes, once I had an accident. The wheel And my truck overturned. Luckily I wasn't hurt, I made it But it's over now the driver's life. Damn, there's still a problem. We'll waste more time. The torrential rains of recent days have washed away And these workers have been trying to clear it for 48 hours. What is happening ? The mountain wall is collapsing. Let's not stay there, there are stones still falling. Is it really worth taking so many risks? You know, there's a lot of money to be made with a mine. But it's a bit like the casino. We can make a fortune Alright, I don't want to wait any longer Do you think the problems are over this time? All I can say is that on this But a few kilometers further, the fate is relentless on Ding Way. Can you come down please. I can't take it anymore, there is still a problem ahead! This time, the road is collapsing. We should still be able to pass. They will guide me. And guys, you should dig the mountain a little more over there. It would move the car away from the edge of the ravine, it would be safer. Everyone go by car. There are still about twenty kilometers to go. Few kilometers for a long time of hell. If Ding Way comes to the end of this road, At the other end of the valley, the taxi Like its occupants. The driver must redouble his efforts And above all make sure that the tremors do not What is happening ? Something fell? Wait, I'll see. Ah, it's the pig! - What are we doing ? Oh no, no animal in my taxi. Pass me the pig, please. Give it to me gently. Wait, wait, look at your animal, look at it, it's bleeding. Indeed, in his fall, the pig injured his rump. It's because of the tremors, he suffered a little. - And will it be okay? Don't worry it's wrong Come on, it's good, it's ok. At the moment, we come across a lot of timber transport trucks like this one on the road and it is a hope for the valley. For several years, the government has been trying to Many left to work in town, Or in factories that run 24 hours a day for the whole world. But since the crisis, work is scarce So, to encourage them to stay, the government A free house for the poorest. That's communism, we offer a Where are you coming from with your truck? I am from Gongshan, I left before yesterday but I had to spend the night in the mountain. The houses reserved for the poorest The collective taxi will have taken 15 hours instead of six Are you happy to have arrived? Yes, we are happy to be here. But I'm full of aches. The gas can leaked, there's some Look here for the crack. All the gasoline came out that way. Why is it so serious? I won't be able to refuel my motorcycle. Disappointed, Tchang will give away the little gasoline he has left. But for his 15 hours of travel, he will receive A good pay that represents more than once And the pig, how is he? My pig is fine. A little rest, a little treatment and it will be good! The pig is reserved for Phung's grandmother. Want a hot potato? They are good. Get out, dog, go away! It is above all the memory of the region. This 85-year-old lady has always lived It was under Tibetan rule in the 1940s. It was when I was young. The Tibetan lords came They captured us by the dozens. The ones like me who didn't leave were all tattooed on their faces so we could never get married. Here, the old ones are all marked and those Today, the dominant-dominated relationship has changed and Whose first villages are only a few kilometers from here. Installed on the high mountainous plateaus, Together, they divide their time between prayer and meditation. At 22, Jang is the youngest of them. His mission, to convert the inhabitants of the valley to Buddhism. Among the inhabitants of the valley, there is Since I took care of the village, there is a It is a blessing for the monastery. Since Tibet was annexed by China in the late Especially the monks, accused by the Chinese government of fostering their people's desire for independence, And push them to revolt. Come on, step back a bit! - Am I close enough there? It is for this reason that the Chinese government has destroyed many temples and imprisoned the rebellious monks. So the scene that unfolds this morning The Chinese, converted to Buddhism by Jang, are They take a risk to show up with Pay them a few prayers and a little alcohol. I don't pay them, I give them beer in exchange. You know, they are believers. They do this for Buddhism. They are faithful and we have never had an incident, Because we pray a lot at the monastery to avoid that. Truck full Jank still holds on to She is heavy ! Come on, let's go! But you really believe that he will be able to But of course. The monk is right to worry. Even if it displays few kilometers on the odometer, This truck is an antique. And its engine often requires small adjustments. The problem is that the road is So, you have to take care of the engine, feel the right moment to change gears and above all be in the right revs. It's not simple ! Here we learn by So to relieve the engine to the maximum, this On the descents, it's freewheel and fully on the brake. That's the secret. But at the bottom of the slope, he will need a Because the truck struggles to climb and the speed But above all, the engine borders on overheating. So this time the trick lies in See that little water tap? It is used to cool If you don't have that, you break and you never arrive. Its good ? Can I step back? Yes, go ahead, it's all right. With this latest load, the work of Jang hopes that the Chinese authorities will allow him to expand his monastery so that he can accommodate around 30 monks. But in Tibet, at the slightest sign of revolt, the government closes most of the temples and expels the monks. In front of the temple, on the other side Today is a great day ahead. To earn a living, Phung hunts the bat These bamboo strips will be used to make arrows. Because here, the weapon of choice is the crossbow. In the valley, few people own a firearm. The cartridges are way too expensive. That's how you carry a crossbow. It must be well glued along the body so as not to catch on the bushes. We must be able to run after the game easily. To leave no chance for the animals to escape, the hunters will coat their arrows with poison. The poison we are going to use is pure. It comes from a flower that is crushed. Harvested in the mountains in spring, Before handling it, the hunters made When the poison reaches its target, there is Even slightly touched, the animal collapses. He has no A long and meticulous preparation for the hunt. While his friends finish making It is he who is in charge of opening the way The machete must be perfectly 3 hours of walking in a jungle saturated with humidity. Here you are ! Along the way, we spotted squirrel bats. It was over there. Are you sure in those trees? Yes, I have seen several. So we'll start the hunt around here. But Phung is worried. There is too much humidity The strings relax and they lose And crossbows also lose their accuracy. It's not very accurate anymore, but it'll be fine. In the jungle there are all kinds of beasts, Like this leech which, once on you, But for deadly animals like snakes, Phung has It's a repellent, you have to put a lot of it on your body. A product from Chinese medicine. Here there are poisonous snakes. If they bite you, And a lot of people get bitten? Yes a lot, too often! The ideal is to apply the product directly to the skin, 7 p.m. The hunt begins. To be able to live on it, the group of hunters must kill about thirty squirrel bats per evening. They go out. I saw one there! Light the lamps! Let's go. To attract squirrel bats, But the light of the lamps attracts danger. Look at the snake, it's huge! Step back. Be careful. Tonight, hunters will have to be on their toes. See below. Lightning here, lightning here, quick! There was one in this tree. Go quickly see! See if you got it. I see nothing there. We missed it! Bad night for Phung and his team. This leech will be their only trophy. They still have fifteen days of hunting left to For Ding Way, the ore hunter, this is the moment of truth. I took 6 hours to go up. I'm coming, I'm just downstairs. He will finally know if he was right to invest in this mine. He hopes to find an ore at the bottom You are tired ? I'm exhausted. Every time he comes to the mine, Ding Way reports Here grab the chickens and the pot of milk. Each drilling campaign lasts about six months. Miners rarely go back to town. They sometimes take turns day and night to extract the A hundred men and a few women live here in difficult conditions. Crammed into makeshift tents. A rough and masculine environment in which Hi there. Hey boss, we found some ore. We'll show you the vein on the mine plan. Great ! Show me the sample. That's worth the money. What is in this stone? Here, look. In this stone, there is lead. How do you see it? Those are the black spots there, there are a lot of them. OK. We'll see if the vein is good, - If there is a big vein, how much will you earn? That's to say ? You know, there is a lot of money to That's why I do all this. It's over there. The gallery sinks over more than 400 meters into the heart of the mountain. Quickly, gases and humidity irritate the throats. Normally it's here. I don't see anything there. Why is there no electricity here? Normally you should have it I see nothing there. It's not in the right place there, it's not the right gallery. Guys, you don't know where the vein is or what? Come on, find me this way quickly! The mine is a real maze. Dozens of galleries over hundreds of meters and for reasons of economy, None of them are substantiated. Safety is not a priority. Is it hard to work in the mine? You know, I'm used to being in the dark, However, it is still dangerous. There are often deaths. The other day, ten friends disappeared in You could have put the light there anyway. Boss, it's here, but it doesn't look terrible to me. There is lead here, but the grade is too low. It would cost too much to operate, Come and see boss, the vein continues over there! Well, that's much better. There we have something! Sure, in any case, it's lead. We will be able to start operating, that's for sure. You are happy ? Yes, yes, but you never know. All In a few months, Ding Way may be a rich man. The Duong Valley will then undoubtedly lose its tranquility to become, like New China, an El Dorado.