At 5:00 AM, clashes broke out We're at the heart of the fighting. Spread to the other side of the street. Primarily, Muslim militias are clashing The battle of Bangui There's a second one, shoot, shoot. In a few hours, Officially, it's a short-term In fact, it's a high-risk operation. It's one month before the Battle of Bangui In the Capital, all appears to be calm. In fact, tensions are already palpable. Armed men stand at every intersection. Muslim militiamen Above the city stands a fort. In this former French military camp, resides the president It is symbolically situated The president lives here under protection. For security reasons, His militiamen are accused under the scalpel with rape and looting. Half hideaway, half bedlam, or at least what's left of it. Mr. President, This is the chief of staff and this is the deputy chief Do you meet with your generals Yes. We sit down and go over everything. -What is the country's situation now? The question of the day The country's only aircraft We had a 10-seater plane which collided with a goat Has it been repaired? Not yet, we need 34 million CFA francs. We need that plane. Okay, until the chief of staff we'll have to do Michel Djotodia came to power As a former official, he rallied His military coalition dubbed Seleka, took Bangui in two hours. Almost without a fight, We can, with consensus, Chairman Michel Djotodia. If there are no objections, The population of the CAR, welcomed the new president in time. With a Muslim father and Christian mother, France did not meddle Seleka militiamen often come such as Chad and Sudan. These foreign mercenaries and massacring Christians. At the UN rostrum, Today, chaos has been seeded, and the civilian populations We must put an end to these abuses Now, seven months after taking office, He can only leave his fortified compound The inauguration Reviewing the government. The Prime Minister, Nicolas Tiangaye, Good news, I have to go. -You found a plane? -You don't want it? Okay, very well. Take the United Nations airplane Tiangaye is Christian. Though a longtime ally of Djotodia, This government fracture To get a better view, direction, Galabaja, a Christian neighborhood In the market, and abuses by Muslim militias. As a market vendor, I'm afraid. It's insecure. We're not eating well. Now that he's president, We want a new president. This one isn't capable A few kilometers further North by forming self-defense groups They number 15,000 across the country. One of their leaders is a former corporal We're here to liberate the people, a revolution for armed forces Rambo has lived in the bush ever since the Seleka took Bangui His dream, to topple President Djotodia The Selekas are foreigners, Even our army doesn't have Chadians. We don't have any Moussa's or Adams. What we want now is to see an en Four hours march through the bush. The corporal leads us On the way, We hate Arabs, We want them to leave. As Central Africans, At the base, Some former soldiers Many civilians carry sticks, This is our country, not Muslims'. This is not a Muslim country, Djotodia, get out. Corporal Rambo donned his fatigues, Back in Bangui, the Selekas are also preparing They're assembling new militias President Djotodia inspects his troops. The president claims he's powerless I'm in charge of everyone all who are Seleka. When we returned, dressed in uniform How can I be asked to control them? It's impossible. Fall in line, move to the left. From their station at the airport, French soldiers It is still more than a month but they already know Their problem, the threat is spread out They cannot clearly identify enemies. Our mission here is to monitor the approach that leads and be able to support the checkpoints and, of course, protect the airport. Today was especially quiet, It's difficult for us to identify them. We can never be 100 percent sure Why can't we recognize them? We can't spot them, and not all clearly identified. To us, it's just armed men Beyond that, On 8th September 2013, clashes between Christians killed in Bossangoa, massacres in Bouar, deadly reprisals in Damara, Today, we look at a country Is France going to intervene? It's bordering on genocide. Central Africa is a country but with more land than France. It's in the heart of Africa, Now, it's an absolute mess. Genocide, the word is out. Twelve days after the interview President Djotodia struck back. He called the press A Muslim-focused massacre has left 12 dead, according to Selekas. They were massacred by these. The survivors were carried back Muslims accused the Christians. They killed many people in my home. They cut my husband's head off Then the anti-balaka That's the pre-genocide. We are overwhelmed. Look at this, is it even human? We asked the world to bear witness. The Prime Minister must come Now, that we've seen these things, What is this? -I'll go get it. Go fetch the Prime Minister, He has to see Half an hour later, Go ahead and show him. With a stern expression, the Christian Nicola Tiangaye The Selekas take him to task. If they were Christians who had died, Since they're Muslim, We're going to kill each other. Only the strongest will remain. Go check on the ones laid out in the cars. He wouldn't make any comment. The very same evening, he flew to Paris where he was France's principal advisor Bangui is holding its breath. It's only a matter of days but an unexpected event To great surprise, The Selekas were taken by surprise, They rushed toward the shooting, We're in the Northwest of the city. Seleka soldiers speak Arabic instead of the local Sango language. These mercenaries are from Chad and Sudan The invisible enemy The attackers hide out in houses, In a courtyard, we come across Christian self-defense militias, rounded Bangui in a coordinated attack. In a Northwestern Harlem district, but around 10:00 AM, A machine gun clears the field Back off, morale, morale. We will fight the anti-balakas. Bit by bit, they'll all flee because they're the ones We said nothing. The international community They came with machetes, We did not start this, they did, I assure you that we will ensure security. Morale, morale. The better-armed Selekas It's clean, The commander is a young soldier, This Muslim man claims to have spent 20 years before joining the defected Seleka rebels Men appear at the end of the road. The Selekas fire a rocket They were civilians. They're mags at random The last village before the bush Christian inhabitants along with the attackers. It's over, they've already gone. Midday, after seven hours of firefights, The Christian offensive has failed. The Seleka militiamen come back to town. They come face to face General Yahya has to negotiate. Hello, boss. How are you doing? What's the matter? Do you speak French or not? Do you speak French? Tell them we're not here to bother you, so if you can just move the vehicle there, No problem. No problem, we have no problem with you. You don't have a problem with us. For now, the French They are just on ground patrol. In the Muslim neighborhood of PK5, A gunshot. Almost before our eyes, a militiaman shoots a man A dozen civilian casualties appear before the National Assembly. On this very day, more than 1,000 deaths according to Amnesty International. At the hospital, victims are crowded They are treated by volunteers with whatever is at hand. A Seleka fighter was even injured a French army checkpoint near the airport. -Why did the French army shoot at you? He may have thought I was a rebel. Who knows? I got out and said, &quot;We are the government forces, He didn't hear it, he aimed his rifle The situation threatens to degenerate. At 4:20 PM, the U.N. gives the green light The draft resolution as Resolution 2013 2127. Three hours later, Francois Hollande announced the start a 1600-strong peacekeeping force. Given the urgency of the situation, That is to say, tonight, France aims to prevent This mission will be fast. It is not meant to last, French tanks are deployed in Bangui, the day after the aborted attack Mission, to disarm the belligerents The servicemen of Operation Sangaris This time, they have the right to shoot. The peacekeeping force The French need to go neighborhood We want to thank President Hollande. It's by his initiative Paris, the long-awaited Forty countries are represented. Central African President Djotodia His prime minister, was welcomed This is an exceptional summit that include peace. Back in Bangui, Prime Minister Tiangaye's home was looted All that has to go inside, Seleka General Yahya assesses the damage. This is the Prime Minister's house. Religious or political reprisal It is impossible to know. In the bush, thousands of Christian refugees -How long have they been there? We don't have much food, Look what we prepared as food. What will become of us? We want peace, so that we can truly move That's my daughter, Do you see how we live? We have reptiles and snakes The Seleka seek revenge upon us, They swore they'd come burn our houses, They swore to come to take revenge on us. Right now, we're afraid. At Kabui, President Djotodia celebrates. His men have taken a score Speaking to the press, This is no good. No, it's sad. Why are you doing this? Why do you sacrifice your life -Where's the prosecutor? We'll see if we have to release them. Do what you want to do, In reality, there, the country no longer These men will be loaded into a truck An hour later, On behalf of the Central African people, I wish to express our gratitude Francois Hollande, as well as all who have spared no effort of peace and security In your opinion, in the neighborhoods of Bangui? People are alleging How will I control all these people? I know those who came with me, but as for those who are not with me, Am I God? I hope I'm not God. It is a turning point in the crisis. Three days after a French intervention the French army begins In Christian neighborhoods, In this building, the French have discovered They confiscate everything. There are weapons everywhere, Don't take that out, leave it, watch it, Put the RPGs over there with the others. This is a sealed case, leave it. There are mines inside, leave it. Try not to open any boxes, The Seleka militia Suddenly, the crowd stirs, insults, and threats inhabitants toward two disarmed militiamen. They came after us in our homes. Another militiaman arrives The French soldiers panic. Hey, put it down. Put the suitcase down. Drop it, put the suitcase down. Move back, move back. Move back. He was immediately arrested In the same house, the French These are terrorists, We want peace. A new stampede. Two Muslims, dressed in white, are taken to task. Central African gendarmes intervene They eventually escape, Muslims were being threatened. In another neighborhood of Bangui, the crowd sets fire to cars After months of terror, it is the largest That night, We begin with sad news Two of our soldiers during a clash with militias. These are the first victims since the beginning That same evening, Francois Hollande Returning from Nelson Mandela's funeral, Francois Hollande has called He will meet him, but away from cameras. He aims to put pressure As for these authorities, They must work together That includes the first of these orders, Thank you. In the bush, Corporal Rambo Now that Selekas the time has come for revenge. A small delegation of veterans final instructions before the offensive. Looting is forbidden. If I catch anyone looting, I tell you that now, I will kill you. No need to rob our own country clean, Understood? Do not envy your neighbor, Do you understand? Understood? The greatest fear is of leaks. For safety reasons, If someone is caught using a phone, Even if it takes 10 people to catch him, We don't care Come night, they head towards Bangui to a point right next to the French-held airport. The night before battle, At 2:00 AM tomorrow, we attack, We'll shoot with the machine gun. Suddenly, When he returns, the program has changed. I was told to stand down tomorrow. I've been informed that the Chadians and Sudanese mercenaries Once the Selekas are disarmed, Tomorrow, and will be behind We don't know but the offensive has been postponed. Alfred Rambo heads to bed. Come morning, The group Marabout arrives. He's the one to make lucky charms rendering them invincible. A little demonstration According to him, the bullet of the gun The important thing is to believe. He swallowed a razor blade That's an anti-bullet. Come on, swallow it. In Bangui, the situation becomes critical. For one week, majority Christian refugees At least 30,000 Every day, dozens of wounded civilians According to NGOs, one in three children Emergency aid arrives in a trickle. Only three pints of water. Sleep is impossible on the floor We're missing protective canvases, We need this for the babies because they need protection. The French government Why? They have to defend us from all this. In Bangui, 55 different refugee camps They welcome one-third of the capital's population. Paris, December 16th, 2013, at the Invalides, killed in action. Bangui, on the day Seleka General Yahya is at his encampment. How are you? Please relax. He commands 1,000 men, but by order of President Djotodia, they may no longer leave the capital The militiamen lie about the camp, The general cares for the injured. At lunchtime, Yahya takes us to his home It was the home of a diplomat. He requisitioned it My two children are here, Allie and Joel, What are we going to do On the television, I blame France. I testify that the French army and left them France is charged That they then allow Did France stand idly at the massacres? Controversy swells in Paris, We are heavily involved Impartial disarmament means that ex-Seleka must lay down their weapons, This also precludes reprisal or retaliation There are extremists on both sides regardless of denomination. Impartial in principle, Corporal Rambo is now camped in an abandoned school, 100 men. At mass time, the pastor launched Lord hear our prayers, He is God of whom? Of the army, is that understood? God is the Lord of the army, That is why God to fight our enemies Christians continue to train They appear better equipped This man is Lieutenant Corporal Rambo, During the day, a detachment on Corporal Rambo's base. When our camera appears, The conversation is halted. The captain of the French Special Forces He's walking on eggshells. Everyone must be disarmed. Both Selekas, ex-farkas, and anti-balakas. I'm here today to disarm, but also to deliver a message You are camped out here. Disarm everyone else, not us. Obviously, disarming Christian combatants The French leave Our interlocutor claims At the end of the conversation, They'll come over, and as soon as the way is clear, That's what the sergeant told me, The following day brings but this time, No video. Please, can we avoid that? The 13th Dragon Parachute Regiment is a Special Forces unit Themselves, Christians, they rely on the French army Everyone seems to find their niche. The Christian neighborhood of Charlotte, a French army patrol After reconnaissance with the population, we understand there's a rebel group They're well stocked with arms. We showed the French army We showed the French army to help them do their job, that's all. However, the informant Remember, this is one of the men Christian fighters direct the French army who saw paratroopers Everything is deserted. The population has fled. The area is empty. Indeed, which indicates the presence From that angle, this image, between two trees, The Selekas are hidden out The paratroopers In any case, They simply take pictures People are inside, Rambo's men are disappointed, Go about your lives normally. Remain vigilant and careful. If you don't play the game, Back to the camp Corporal Rambo makes a call No weapons were lost. The army stayed with us, Can we meet today or tomorrow? Okay, I'd like to meet in the afternoon. I have a lot to tell you. Okay. Thank you. The meeting takes place away from cameras. We were not allowed to attend. After the French army leaves, The French colonel advised us to join in order to attack. Even if the enemy you have to attack them at their base. Rambo and his man They like to believe That night, they believed The man has a rough 15 minutes. As punishment, During the evening, he will be executed We contacted the French army for an interview We did not receive a response. Between the Christian majority that jockey for power, impartiality appears More than a month chaos still reigns in Bangui. The spiral of violence, The brief mission could wind up This former colonies cry for help