(upbeat music) - We're building an aluminum catamaran to withstand some of the open ocean can dish out. And up until this point, on building a bombproof structure and installing some of that will allow us to But besides being a from point A to point B, this We want it to be functional, comfy, and to represent our style. And because we're designing and building it from the we have the freedom to But with this freedom comes And in this week's episode, for the plotting and and everything in between as we show you what it's really like to (gentle music) (singer sings in foreign language) Welcome to our home. (laughs) This week, we're gonna cover a few things and one of the things is the interior, but just look at the boat, And actually the welding will be done, mostly done in about three The interior is speeding along as well. And that's gonna be the I think it's so cool to walk and just like envision I mean, we're designing this boat for us, which is really freaking cool, guys. It's like we get to choose what we want. - I think the cool thing about designing and building your own boat is I feel a lot of production boats have to be made so they can appeal to the so they can make a lot of sales. - Yeah. Oh, you're not really - Oh geez. Makes 100% sense, but why you build a custom boat is so that you can build what makes sense to you. - Yeah, you can do your - So that's what we're doing. - Yeah. - Yeah. Before we share our there's something pretty cool If you've been watching you know that we're on the go quite often. In fact, we just flew from Sweden to the Indianapolis Boat Show in the US and now to here in Australia. And the first thing that we always do whenever we land in a new and immediately buy a SIM Which means waiting in and often they want to That is now a thing of the past, which is why I'm happy to say that the sponsor of which will get you connected with an e-SIM immediately. So here's how it works. Just download the Holafly app or visit the Holafly link in Once you're in there, you select your plan, and then to install the e-SIM. Most new phones and even support e-SIMs these days. All right, so remember, this so you don't have to run or any of that struggle and And the thing that really is unlimited data. That's right, unlimited data. So say goodbye to and crazy hidden charges. It is super easy to get started. All you have to do is visit the link in the description below, or I will pop the QR code right here and you will be connected immediately, and at the very same time, sending some love into Okay, thank you for watching, - Mom. - [Sierra] I need to say something. - Oh, you need to say something? What do you need to say? - I've never seen this boat - Is it a mess? - [Brian] We're working. When we work, we make a huge mess. - [Kazza] Yeah. - It's kind of pretty too. - [Brian] It's very pretty, huh? - Yeah, it's like a pretty mess. - [Brian] It's beautiful. - Yeah. Our goal is to go from But what would that Well, here is our vision. Things that are important, functional and maybe things I want this to feel like, you and just have like a light, open feeling. because I think Delos sometimes but you walk down and and I want it to be kind of if that makes sense. (upbeat music) It's a catamaran. Everything has to be as So it's a constant challenge and also like takes a lot of It's like how can we make this - [Brian] I'm gonna interrupt You've probably heard us of maintaining weight on but I don't think we've When we sailed Delos, our monohull, weight was never much of a concern for us. The thing is, monohulls have That's the part of the On a monohull, we get a deep and heavy ballast under the surface that works like a lever So as we add weight, we The wetted surface and the and we go a little bit slower but it's not very dramatic. The weight we add is to the total designed weight of the boat. But on a catamaran, it's different. Our stability comes from which kind of bob on the surface, meaning less wetted surface area overall. This means the boat and even a small increase to sit lower, adding more wetted area and therefore more drag. And the difference in speed and comfort could be very dramatic as the percentage of weight change is much larger. So why does that matter? Well, with a lighter catamaran, you get less resistance in the water, which means better speed and efficiency, both under sail and power. Plus a lighter boat that is handles much better. It sits higher in the and rolling in rough seas meaning we can get into shallower areas without worrying about running aground. The bottom line, a catamaran has to be way more mindful of weight than a monohull because even small changes in performance, speed, and comfort. It's all about minimizing drag And that's why we focus so heavily on the weight savings with this build. So in designing every including the interior as in this video, we literally with weight estimates of every single item that will go on board from and sails to small things like All of this combined will help us to achieve three different weight targets. The lightship weight, which is of the boat itself, all the electrical, the rigging, totally bare bones their stuff, supplies, or fuel onboard. Our target right there is around 15 metric tons or 33,000 pounds. In comparison, this is a than Delos 1 already. Then we have our normal sailing weight, which includes all of the above plus crew and personal the fuel that goes with it, provisions, and half full loads of fuel, The target here is right or 36,000 pounds. Lastly, we've got our full what it sounds like, full extra water, provisions, all kite boarding gear, heaps of spare parts, and ready to go to sea for months of extended cruising in remote places, which takes our total weight target to just over 17.5 metric tons. So we don't have some magic okay, your bathroom mirrors But rather each decision of researching and deciding Which is the lightest, which and of course cost. Multiply this by the that need to be made for and it can quickly become But all we can do is take So let's regroup and Kazza's office and take you along while we talk flooring. - There's a lot of this stuff I guess in this little I already started on this a while back when I was So we originally picked and a lot of you wrote comments and how much dirt and kind of that it's super beautiful But after reading those comments, me and Brian kind of started discussing and we kind of came to the conclusion that we might want to change. So instead of having this we went with, this specific one is like a, I don't know what they call Luxury vinyl flooring was the clear choice for us from day one. And we never really consider like vinyl flooring or real hardwood. It's durable, scratch and and it gives a look and to real hardwood but at a The only thing we really besides the thousands of was the thickness since they We went with the thinnest one And after endless debating we found a winner that I feel happy and confident It's always so interesting how you can be like super set on something and then you kind of just in a different way and then And with that kind of came like this cascade of other things. So I need to choose the veneer. If you're like me and thought this when you heard the word Wood veneers are something else entirely. And there's actually a lot and use of it, which we'll once we get to the actual But the simple explanation is this. Basically it's a super thin piece of wood that you use on top of another material to create a natural wood finish. In our case, we're going to be with a veneer covering to have the beautiful look of real wood, but an incredible weight savings. We're going to use it the wardrobes, and the And the jury's still out on whether or not we'll use it in the heads. So picking the veneer we'll that were going to set the style for the majority of the interior. And since it's not structured at all, the characteristics of the type We're mostly going for pure aesthetics, like choosing a paint color And I had a few veneers but I realized when the new floor, I don't really feel So I've been looking at So this is a American maple, this is a white birch, And I've done a ton of research and it's been quite a journey 'cause it's also like a sample this big is very hard to kind of So to even narrow it down to these three was quite difficult. And she sent through a that show bigger pieces of So I can get like a better and as an actual big veneer. After doing that, the It basically has come down to these two, white birch and American marble, I'm also working on So inside the kitchen, I'm I'm gonna paint. So I've picked out a few samples of colors that I like and I'm actually gonna do test paintings on some ply. I wanted to add a fun little So instead of using on the cabinets and the we're going to use a type of plywood on these interior sides Once I did a test application of our two contenders on I was able to really put how the color scheme would work and the countertop we were I don't know. Which one would you pick? (laughs) I think my favorite is and Brian's favorite is the breakwaters. I mean, they're so similar too, but I think they'll both look great, whichever one we choose. So I haven't nailed it down yet, but it's getting closer for sure. The pieces were all and now we really wanted which we knew we wanted to go with. So we decided to make a field trip so we could see the options in person and get a better feel for Morning. We're on the highway (Kazza laughs) - You laugh at me. - Yeah, Brian is doing a little- - Dan challenged me, - Mustache action. - To do Movember to raise money So I accepted his challenge - Yep, so this is what we're gonna have to live with for the next month. - Hey. - You look great. - I do not look great. (Kazza laughs) You keep on laughing. - I know, every time I I was like, (laughs). Okay, let's pick some veneers. (gentle music) See a lot of veneers. (Kazza laughs) When we entered the by the quantity and variety I was already feeling a just from looking at the sample book, but this was a whole new level. - [Brian] How many square meters of veneer do you reckon you have Do you have any ideas? - It fluctuates. - [Brian] Hundreds of thousands? Millions? - No, I think it's about 1.8 million. - [Kazza] In case you were wondering how much that actually is, here's a few different with 1.8 million square meters of veneer. About half the area of Central Park, 90% of the nation of Monaco, and three times the size of Disneyland. So needless to say, we know but how are we supposed to narrow it down? Luckily we brought our to help us find a winner. - [Brian] So I know choosing veneers for cabinetry. Is there anything that we're looking for? Like one thing you we need a certain amount of square meters. We said that was somewhere - 60 to 70 square meters, yeah. - [Brian] But we also need to for like the frames around So what does that mean? - Well, it means that we've gotta find packs of and hopefully, you know, they're a good match to the veneers. 'Cause they're all different trees, they're all a little bit different. - [Kazza] They brought out a bunch of different pallets to look at and the veneers were all that were cut from a That meant that you can and grain patterns even within For example, packets cut of the tree had more distinctive patterns than one from the edges. As we sifted our way through we started to really fall in love with the Australian white birch. And as it turns out, there's to how they managed to get these trees. Australian white birch have to source, despite the fact that it's a fairly common type of tree. But Australia has strict what can and can't be cut, when and how, and suppliers around Australia always have an eye and a ear open if the opportunity to harvest some happens to arise. In 2019, Australia was ravaged by some of the worst wildfires on record. And one of the techniques they use to try and contain the spread is Basically what they do and remove all the vegetation to create a barrier so there's And one such area happened to have some Australian white birch in it. - And we just have people about we need these type of And they said, &quot;Oh look, geez Anthony, we've got these few logs here. We really think, you know, we should do something with them.&quot; Instead of them just goes down for this fire let's actually make something of it. So they kind of stopped had a look at the logs - [Brian] Snatched 'em up. - Yeah, yeah. - And then they get - [Brian] Yeah, exactly, - Yeah, exactly. - [Brian] Well done, I'm glad you did. - What do you think? - [Brian] I like this. - Over there. - [Brian] I like this one the best so far. I like it as it is a little bit bolder. - Yeah. - [Brian] Time to be brave, Kaz. - But we do have to find the solids, so. - Yeah. - [Brian] What was that? - I'm sold. - [Brian] You're sold? Next, onto the next 8,000 other - [Anthony] Yeah, that's - Your blood is gurgling. - My blood is gurgling? Oh my god, I don't know Am I so warm that my blood is boiling? I feel really hot right now. (Brian laughs) (Brian coughs) - Oh my god, edit that out. Real healthy over here. - That's all I got. GoPro, turn off. (upbeat music) - Woo-hoo! (Brian laughs) (upbeat music)