This episode is brought to you how we used Milanote to create a moodboard The apartment is in the Jordaan area situated on the ground floor The idea was to create a space that was able to fit normal sized furniture. We wanted to bring in as much natural We also love cooking and entertaining, to have a full size We designed and custom and joinery in a workshop My name is Marjin Kruikemeire. I'm a woodworker, designer And my name Liya Yang. I'm a pitch coordinator at a law firm, and The apartment is one of the most historic parts between the canals Within the apartment itself, you don't notice We think it's important that we shouldn't compromise For example, There is a dishwasher, there's an oven, A large TV. So you can sit with four people and a dining area. it isn't big, but you can still have dinner here The building was built in 1905. The previous owner it and deliver it in the open space but lacked features When we bought so we had complete At the back was the old kitchen. We could tell by the remains We moved the old kitchen to the middle We extended the house at the back This required the demolition of a wall into the house We divided up the rest of the space and created a living room, bathroom, and dining room. We absolutely love how Marjin and Liya have transformed their Jordaan apartment So we used Milanote to create an organized some of the key We created three different boards. The floor plan board maps out the key We found a huge dining table with bench that closely resembles Secondly, the Product Board organizes list with links to the product pages. using the Milanote share extension. We were able to save items we even found a similar sofa to their's And last but not least, to visualise the overall We especially love Milanote's eyedropper tool. We can select the exact color Easy peasy. Milanote is free to use, by clicking the link in the description The apartment is situated on the ground floor The front facade has been restored The dining area is by the window The dining table is solid There are corner seat made of oak plywood It also has storage for our shoes. A large mirror hangs above the seats to make it appear larger. There are pleated curtains andf plenty of natural light. In the evening Everything here was customed made to better fit in the space. There are two large hidden doors We cover the doors Behind the left door is the toilet. There is a floating toilet, small white sink, with a black tap. As the toilet sits under the neighbour's stairs. There is a slight slope in the ceiling, use of the space. And we think it's worth it The toilet feels like taking a step back offering a playful nod The dining space is connected to The kitchen is floating with lights The top is quartzite and a narrow shelf in the same material. There is an indication hob a tap providing boiling, sparkling Three wall lights provides the ambience in the kitchen. The kitchen fronts and doors are dark smoked oak to contrast from the rest of the apartments. Opposite the kitchen is a large oak slat wall unit fridge and more storage space The unit is not really a wall, that would not have been possible It also acts as a divider while providing storage for both areas. In addition, a niche has been created for the coffee maker. From the kitchen You see a large window where daylight There is a large white corner sofa On the right is a large custom with space for all our memories, The TV is hidden inside the bottom cabinet and emerges This allows us to tuck away the TV Additionally, with a mirror, including wine racks and racks for wine glasses. We placed a mirror at the back of the wine and glass racks It makes you feel like you're The bathroom is through a hidden door. The white tiles and blue walls and a fresh look. On the left, you'll find a floating We used the same quartzite counter There is a heated towel rack with push to open doors On the inside of the door milled in. Besides using it as a mirror, to make it appear larger. The walk in shower has a rain shower head and a niche for shampoo. The bathroom has a drop ceiling which hides the mechanical ventilation. The bedroom is located at the back of the apartment The bed has a cork back wall with building sockets to conceal a phone charger and two wall lights Surrounding the bed is a custom made buit-in wardrobe where there is space for clothes. It is pre finished plywood and terracotta. There is a white built-in cupboard for the washing machine and dryer. A built in desk helps to create a small office space There are two doors leading to the garden. The door next to the desk is used In the summer, we open up all the doors, Including the large French doors, for cross ventilation. The window between the living room and bedroom can be closed When the curtains are open, into the living space. At the back of the apartment, It is the extension of our home where we can escape the daily rush of the city. There is a dining table and small a lounge area at the back. We believe that living in a small if you are creative and innovative. It is also considered It promotes efficient use of resources One of the key advantages Heating, cooling and lighting. a small area requires It promotes a more minimalistic lifestyle with a small space. You are motivated to declutter Thanks for watching. And if you are an architect or designer we could feature, please share it with us at nevertoosmall.com/submissions