Only five years after the end of the Second once again up in arms. As nuclear weapon-fuelled the Korean Peninsula will play host to its first two opposing Korean states, within months a global are fighting it out in a war that will see both The Japanese defeat in WWII and the Second control over the Korean Peninsula. Soviet in Korea in August 1945, while the US occupies Korea along the 38th Parallel and assume The line is to be temporary and b oth sides behind new states aligned with their governments. government president Dr SyngmAn Rhee announces former anti-Japanese leader and Soviet Army Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the and neither side rules out reunification by force. an insurgency in the south, which is strongly raids. Often these are conducted by police units, guidance of their former occupiers : the Korean Republic of Korea Army (or ROK) Army in the south, initially have the upper-hand . Rhee justifies "We are responsible for the protections of the Korean Communists come over the 38th Parallel and harm us without resistance." (Wada 23) Korea. US Far East Commander General Douglas and some in Washington are concerned With military tension and pressure for unification for permission to launch a unification invasion. and suggests the North expands the insurgency. but does send equipment, including tanks. clear he will seek assistance elsewhere. "Kim Il Sung said he cannot start the attack on Comrade Stalin's instructions are the law to him. he intends to see Mao Zedong... Kim Il Sung an excited fashion, but it was not accidental The newly proclaimed Communist People's Republic of Koreans fought with communist forces in the to the KPA - granting it 28,000 seasoned troops . Stalin gives his permission - but makes it clear Stalin likely approves the North the US will not intervene. What he US policy paper NSC-68 commits America to rolling In June 1950, the KPA has around 223,000 troops - mostly T-34/85s, and 132 aircraft that are mostly invasion force are Korean veterans of the Chinese 87,500 troops, with only 35,000 along the border. At 4am on June 25, 1950, the KPA invades aided later claims they are responding to a Southern With their mostly invulnerable armour in the amphibious landings. Korea's narrow geography invasion routes into the south. The only major Seoul, but when the ROK 2nd Division fails the capital's defence crumbles. By June 28, Given Rhee's unpopularity with some south "The soldiers were speaking in their hard who spoke the same language, had the same customs, like long-lost brothers who had finally some home and laugh, no one was frightened." (Wada 80) bridges across the Han River, trapping around the ROK Army can account for only 22,000 troops. an attack and expected South Korea to the US takes immediate action - but not in Communist offensive, and orders the US Seventh Nationalist Chinese regime of Chiang Kai-shek who were likely preparing an invasion. and leads a resolution to send armed the Soviet Union is not present at the vote, as of recognition for Communist China. So, the USSR A broad group of states now pledge Eventually, by 1954, 22 countries will including Britain and Canada, but also early supporter is Turkey, which "While we fight here together with the UN own country... some people in our country answer is as such: the communist threat is we have to fulfil our duty." (Brown Turkey 97) contributions, who often lack could become burdensome, although they provide But international forces will take in Japan rush to South Korea under General US occupation troops, however, are unprepared. from 89 divisions to just 10 and lack infantry firepower, and poorly trained. KPA at Osan on July 5, the North Koreans quickly weapon, the M9A1 Bazooka, performs poorly against Bazookas' to the battlefield, but before they "As daylight broke we heard this loud was happening - their tanks were coming... The us. We had no way of stopping them... tried to take on one of the tanks with a bazooka. and he was killed on the spot." (Hastings 83) Taejon, and even the newly arrived 1st Cavalry the line. US and ROK forces frequently outnumber often rapidly raised recruits, and the US army is that are rare in Korea. They do have air power, usefulness. In 17 days of fighting, the Refugees are also in danger, and UN fears of KPA casualties. UN aircraft sometimes strafe or bomb up to potentially 400 South Korean refugees these fears . A South Korean investigation claims fire on refugee columns and provide US reports investigation claimed no formal order was given. the Naktong River and the Pusan Perimeter including the British 27 Brigade arrive, the UN forces are now organized under the US Eighth advantage in armour - including M-26 Pershing the KPA assault is burnt out. enthusiasm for reunification sours in "In the beginning, it was an atmosphere of Live the Fatherland!'... We still did not realise that followed, we heard that the communists atmosphere of terror set in." (Hastings 103/104) South Koreans by September 1950. But southern cities will not be occupied much General MacArthur launches an ambitious The western port of Inchon serves Seoul believes an amphibious landing behind KPA "It will be like an electric fan. You and the fan will stop. When the North Koreans will have no choice but But Inchon's major variance in tidal height 15 for landing. MacArthur is undeterred The landing is an immediate success, partly they lack forces to repel it. US troops secure in the evening to light resistance. By the end It now pushes towards Seoul, while simultaneously, With the KPA's rear threatened, they start a mass as KPA forces conduct rear-guard both sides carry out atrocities, including the By September 27, X Corps recaptures most the KPA units. Only around 25,000 make it back to MacArthur demands to pursue them across the concerned about potential Chinese intervention. Truman grants permission by late September. ROK forces can operate near the Chinese border. unification under a US-backed government Maintaining North Korea is therefore The US intervention in the Taiwanese Straits has a Chinese perspective - US hostility. question concerning Korea, it is related to the they wanted to calm China first they will come to attack China." (Yufan 103) believes fighting in Korea's narrow geography Chinese 225,000 troops near the border. Mao will not tolerate non-Korean troops him. US intelligence chief Major General Charles In early October, ROK forces cross the Parallel, is the North Korean capital of Pyongyang. command under Lieutenant General Edward Almond - amphibious assault at Wonsan, but mines will delay by ROK troops on land. On October 19, Eighth Army The KPA continues to fight rearguard actions October 24 MacArthur lifts restrictions on non-ROK The Yalu River, the Chinese border, and Korean soon, their forward units encounter On October 25, units of the Chinese People's reaching the Yalu River. Then between November and II ROK Corps around Unsan. Using mortars and attack them in isolated groups. The Chinese "There was just mass hysteria on the position. terrific, there were Chinese shouting everywhere, I just ran with the crowd. We just ran and ran In the 1st Cavalry Division's first clash wounded and captured. the Chinese attacks abruptly end. MacArthur serious attempt at intervention. He plans a new Part of this plan includes an advance by X Corps at Iwon and pushes towards the Yalu and also known as Chosin, reservoir. The decision is controversial, especially considering But General Almond - a protege of MacArthur's - by ROK troops, forward elements of the 7th On November 25, UN forces open MacArthur's 200,000 Chinese troops under General Peng two main UN forces are separated and aim to, and preserve it as a friendly buffer state. Chinese troops outflank UN positions and cuts off the US 2nd Division as Turkish troops a dash through Chinese roadblocks to Eighth By November 30, the 2nd Division suffers 4,500 Meanwhile, in the east, Chinese troops now strike around Chongjin. Facing 12 Chinese divisions but the Chinese ambush and badly damage a relief for the critical base at Hagaru. Lieutenant of the reservoir, messages Almond: I don't have much hope that anybody's Faith is killed shortly afterwards. Both US often through Chinese roadblocks. They have but struggle in sub-zero conditions. only 385 make it to Hagaru in fighting condition. back to Hungnam for evacuation. Marine "Gentlemen, we are not retreating. We are merely With all available aircraft covering the UN troops fight their way through along the roads. so UN planes paradrop new bridge sections . operation evacuates 105,000 UN troops, 18,400 troops then wreck the port with demolitions The sudden reversal comes as a shock to MacArthur UN troops report being physically overwhelmed by huge waves of Chinese infantry, Chinese human waves attack do occur, soldier and actor Michael Caine later recalls one: front of us a terrifying tableau was illuminated. positions led by a troop of demonic trumpet suicide by hurling themselves onto our barbed for the troops following." ( Caine memoir) forces rarely significantly outnumbered UN tactics are exaggerated. After all, many of the and it makes no sense to waste them. tactics to dislocate enemy positions. they blow whistles and horns to communicate appear Chinese troops are more numerous or use an assortment of Second World War weapons, models, but also Soviet imports such as the they make wide use of mortar and the Chinese discuss the plans - and their allowing for better tactical preparation. experienced veterans of the 2nd Sino-Japanese and see Chinese behaviour as resulting purely did likely play a role - some Chinese recent victories . Li Hua, a 23-year-old "We felt pretty confident, because with all their support from the Americans. We We weren't very wrong. They were a pushover Meanwhile, US morale plummets as they stick to all-round defence and relies heavily on is the complete collapse of the UN British Private Albert Varley later recalls: "It was a proper shambles, a The winter conditions affect soldiers and refugees withdrawal, it also limits Seoul's defence. Debate leave Korea altogether. MacArthur requests Chinese and develops bombing lists for Chinese cities, his requests but with domestic and international There is also tension within the alliance, inadequate American training . British "The reason for this is primarily because their inability... to stand and fight.... Their or war and, in spite of lessons learnt, they have never studied or been taught defence. and mechanical advances at great speed.... threatens their flank or rear." (Hastings 208) accident and is replaced by WWII US airborne Sicily, Italy and Normandy, Ridgway favours the he implements new training, including But new methods take time. On January positions 60 kilometers south. but China is exhausted. Its non-mechanised struggle to maintain the offensive. Supplies depend on captured UN equipment and supplies: rice, but we never cared for tomato juice. because we found rifles too heavy to carry. we captured, I am not sure we could have from the cold that winter..." (Hastings 206/207) forces face off against 365,000 UN troops . After goes on the offensive in February and March. By fourth time it has changed hands in 10 months. MacArthur now calls for resources but there is little political will in the UN To MacArthur, talks are unacceptable and in statements favouring an attack on China . weapons to create an irradiated barrier along and Truman is tired of his general's public 11 Truman dismisses MacArthur and replaces him in South Korea but relieves many UN allies. along the 38th Parallel in anticipation of Communist forces launch their biggest offensive significant force clashes against the British on poorly prepared positions, British and hill tops against repeated Chinese assault. the situation as "a bit sticky", US 3rd Division the 29th Brigade to hold on. This is commonly "When Tom told Corps that his they simply did not grasp that in British Army Under frequent night attack, most British the Gloucestershire Regiment on Hill force and repeated attempts by Filipino and US I Corps orders a general withdrawal along Gloucestershire commander Lieutenant Colonel James When British Centurian tanks arrive to cover British soldiers climb onto them. The tanks then By April 25, all UN forces except the The surviving Glosters now attempt to Company make it back to UN lines. Chinese "Glosters". British casualties are around The Battle of Imjin River is often understood the Chinese offensive. Others though, describe since the 29 Brigade could have fought Despite the Chinese success at marking a decisive moment in the war. Kim and Rhee but neither side will attempt another China and the UN settle in for a Talks start at on July 10, 1951 , but they make and Chinese won't compromise on key issues, the talking literally stops - on August 10, and 11 minutes. By August 22 talks are over. stalemated frontline and in the air. opening days of the war. Piston-driven and Seafires quickly eliminate the small North UN aircraft conduct interdiction air strikes, but Although the Soviet Union refuses to directly aircraft, including its new MiG-15 jet fighter. the US, who send their own jet fighters, Both Soviet and UN pilots are under restrictions. known as Mig-Alley but have orders not to UN pilots aren't allowed to cross into rules and soon jet-on-jet dogfights take place. US jets like the F-80: it has a higher ceiling, Sabre is more of a match, especially at low A more important factor is pilot training. a decisive edge, especially over Chinese limited by communication issues. Often Soviet pilots rely on translated phrases written in combat, they simply shout in Russian. air-to-air kills do occur, it's hard to first air-to-air jet kill on November 1, with was downed by flak, and say they scored the alternatively, November 9 by a Navy F9F Panther. during the war. The Soviets say they downed figure is likely closer to 350. In any case, against Chinese or Korean flown MiGs and Soviet UN. Captain Nikolay Vorobyov recalls a victory: closed in to about 100m... The Sabre started burst went to his right, and the fourth burst shell went into the tail pipe. Debris and caught fire and fell away." (Tonder KWCI 55) both Communist jets and ground fire. The loss of bombing raids, although major bombing continues. Chinese supply routes from 1951 to 1952. UN air of 343 aircraft, although Ridgway is sceptical: been destroyed during the past ten days or be a truck left in all of Asia." (Mitchell 177) experience no air attack, and UN helicopters - operate more freely. Models like the H-13 observation, and medical evacuations to the new the threat from ground fire, technical for limited helicopters means most Although the latest aviation technology beginning to resemble WWI. Both sides build deep One reason for the static front is the 1951. By November, both sides limit themselves patrols, and repairing defences along do launch night attacks, but they struggle UN early-warning outposts detect attacks, "I had never seen such brilliance in the battlefield was not nearly as frightening the move and then bring devastating firepower Chinese trenches, vulnerable to air attack, to protect massing troops and artillery. By to around 900,000 - 200,000 more than the UN, and With conditions shifting from extreme cold frontline troops deal with frostbite, disease which rotates troops out after a certain period drops as new troops arrive. Meanwhile, the To improve experience, UN commanders plan counter. After UN forces establish a the Chinese launch multiple counterattacks. sees extensive combat from June 1952, with parts Only in March 1953 do Chinese troops finally Colombian officer Alfredo Forero remembers the heavy artillery and mortar fire fell on Old Baldy. by flashing and deafening explosions all around men, weapons and weakened fortifications seemed and agony mingled with our own and enemy machine Varela] fired his machine gun on an onslaught of him on the face, leaving his head tangling on horror movie until new explosions on my bunker and I continued to communicate with machine take out the flamethrower and prepare himself 45% of US casualties occur in war and as troops continue to die on the By early 1952, the UN is softening its negotiating but receives little support . Meanwhile, and conduct internal reforms. However, there UN nations want all their prisoners returned, don't want to return home . An April 1952 survey military prisoners want to return to China or returned to avoid embarrassment. For President in which large numbers of Soviet prisoners were But in 1953, there are changes of is elected president in the US , and Stalin Eisenhower campaigned on his reputation as the - which was not a top voter concern. He wants and increasing ROK forces in Korea and nuclear the US tests tactical nuclear artillery, and word diplomats. The Americans hope to intimidate the US Joint Chiefs of Staff recommend In March and April, Chinese troops launch They push back some ROK forces, but UN troops hold the UN also bombs North Korean infrastructure, fighting has little strategic value, except time fighting dies down in June and Just how seriously Eisenhower considered nuclear in influencing China, have been debated. It's death, economic cost, nuclear threats, and the On July 27, 1953, three of the four primary designed to not make any one side appear allows it to go ahead under US pressure meaning technically a state of war When the ceasefire begins at 10pm, soldiers from Chris Snider of the Canadian Brigade recalls: there were thousands of them, more than standing gazing at us. Some of our people specially, to impress us." (Hastings 403). North and South along the front lines and includes which all weapons and troops must be withdrawn. they want to go after being processed by a neutral to return home . This figure does not include an in an attempt to stop negotiations. Of the 12,773 1 Briton choose to stay in North Korea. The US As for military losses, South Korea suffers around US forces lose almost 37,000 killed - around 90% troops are killed along with 2,000 soldiers from Estimating Chinese and North Korean estimates of 1.5 million Chinese and and losses are likely closer to 500,000. least around 1 million South and 1.5 million figure may be higher, and historians agree With such high casualties, it has been difficult for some to accept the inconclusive end both sides present themselves as the victors One argument is that South Korea and the United northern invasion and preventing reunification were the defenders initially, a return to the victory . The South even gained some territory some South Korean historians argue the fact that or defected to the South was &quot;a victory in Critics of these arguments point out that although this shifted by October 1950. MacArthur and Rhee's resulted in an attempt at reunification had it North Korea can also claim a defensive victory. failed, preventing its own destruction could be goal. Others add that the North's territorial and strategically valuable, while the South Critics of a US victory also argue that the self-confidence and pride severely bruised. After experience which had far-reaching consequences. as the cornerstone of US security policy, could be interpreted as a shift to the strategic policy of pro-actively "rolling back" Communism conventional to clandestine operations. Union gained the most from the war. Although it did so from a distance and its overall and prestige were low. Soviet confidence was Europe , where it intervened to crush uprisings Chinese historians also point out Chinese gains with the Soviet Union (for a time), developed its including tanks and an air force . Since China China can also argue to have achieved its primary buffer state against US-aligned states in the from continuing to support Ho Chi Minh's communist sending captured US artillery to Viet Minh forces Battle of Dien Bien Phu. When France called on Eisenhower refused because he was afraid provide France with intelligence, logistics, Of course, this position has its opponents too. a goal of reunification by late 1950, which were not worth the high casualties. There's also Taiwanese Straits saved Taiwan from invasion, nationalist Chinese republic. This prevented more important strategic objective - ultimate the US Seventh Fleet withdrew, China did not Other less-discussed minor victors may be UN and the Philippines. With modest contributions western powers which often paved the way for joined NATO in 1952, while the US oversaw the version of the alliance in South-East Asia. inconclusive. Given the millions killed, it's claim some kind of victory, but these debates is that the Korean War's impact resonates One of the lasting legacies of the Korean War is general MacArthur's idea to use nuclear weapons this showed where the new Cold War and the potential of limitless nuclear energy Before his death Josef Stalin had accelerated "atomic powered communism" lived on after we produced an entire documentary series about the atom cities like Prypiat and beyond. And a streaming platform we're building together with advertising guidelines or the almighty algorithm. other exclusive World War 2 series 16 Days you can watch all our content there ad-free not just in your browser. Nebula is available on nebula.tv/realtimehistory , you can get an entire want to support what we're doing on Nebula, the $300. If you sign up at nebula.tv/realtimehistory, support us here at Real Time History and Original documentaries in the future with the annual membership for $30 is still better if membership is about supporting us and Nebula the way this option is also available for to nebula.tv/realtimehistory and support As usual you can find all the video description below. For the Second World War, check out our videos on the events in Korea. If you are watching this video support, we couldn't do it without you. I'm Real Time History, the only history channel that