I did my makeup tonight to make myself look older and more tired. How'd I do? (audience laughing) Thank you so much. Makeup is such a weird concept, isn't it? It's so random. I'll get up in the morning, go into the bathroom, look in the mirror. Gee, I don't look so good. Maybe if my eyelids were blue, I'd be more attractive. (audience laughing) Where did that come from? OK, I'm doing it. (audience laughing) Women don't want that. We don't want to look like toucans. That's not what we're going for. We want what men want-- everybody wants to look younger. And gravity is making that impossible. That's why I keep a mirror by my front door to make sure I look presentable when I leave the house. So I was leaving the house recently. I looked in the mirror. And I saw something on my neck. So I leaned in a little more closely to see what it was and it was my neck. (audience laughing) My neck was hanging from my neck. (audience laughing) How depressing is that? (audience laughing) But I'm not getting plastic surgery. No, I'm not going down that rabbit hole. The most I'm willing to do is to hold my upper arm flaps back with chip clips (audience laughing) because I don't want to hurt anyone when I'm waving goodbye. (audience laughing) My skin has lost so much of its elasticity. Oh, man. You know what happened recently? I took a nap on a corduroy bedspread. Took six hours for the lines to come out of my face. (audience laughing) It's insulting. (audience laughing) And then-- oh, it doesn't stop. I was in the ladies room, in one of the public restrooms. And it had one of those really high-powered hand dryers-- the Dyson ones, where you lower your hands into it. I looked down, and the skin on the back of my hand was flapping around like a flag. (audience laughing) When I pulled them out, they looked like four-day-old balloons. (audience laughing) It's very depressing. But I like having gray hair. I really like heavy gray hair. It's very-- thank you very much. It's very-- (audience member cheers) Thank you as well. (audience laughing) It's very easy. It's very low maintenance. I love that. And I've noticed that I get a lot more looks from guys now that my hair is gray. And I think I know why. I think it's because they think I can't get pregnant. (audience laughing) Yeah. Guys like that. (audience laughing) I'll tell you how old I am. I don't mind telling you how old I am. But let me see if you can guess. I'm going to give you a hint. I was at my friend's apartment. And I actually said this out loud to her. I actually said, boy, that's a nice pill caddy. (audience laughing) That's how old I am. (audience laughing) I had to get a new pill caddy recently because my doctor gave me a new prescription. And I'm on so much medication that I couldn't jam one more pill into the compartment. So I had to go to CVS to the pill caddies and prosthetics aisle. (audience laughing) And it's an education. There's a whole hierarchy of pill caddies. You start out with the entry level pill caddy-- the single compartment pill caddy. Then you move into the AM/PM pill caddy. Then the AM, noon, evening pill caddy. Then the AM, noon, evening, bedtime pill caddy. Then you have to hire a caddie to hand you pills all day until you pass out and die. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) All right, I'll tell you how old I am. This is how old I am. OK. I was walking my dog recently. And we're at the end of the block. And there was this kid, about 11 years old. And he's riding his skateboard. And he's talking to his friend through his speakerphone. And I hear him say to his friend, I'm on the corner of 18th and Oak. And then I hear his friend say through the speakerphone, &quot;are you near that old lady &quot;with the dog?&quot; (audience laughing) I'm not an old lady. I'm not an old lady. No one's listening to me, by the way. I'm just screaming, I'm not an old lady, thereby proving I'm an old lady. (audience laughing) I'm getting these old people coupons now, too. It's really nice. I got a coupon recently for ash burial at sea. (audience laughing) A coupon-- (audience laughing) it said, ash burial at sea, $595. And on the bottom in smaller print, it said, reduce the high cost of dying. Gee, I'd like to die, but it's just so expensive. (audience laughing) If there was a sale on dying, I'd be dead right now. (audience laughing) Who's using the coupon, is what I'd like to know. Who's got the presence of mind on that particular day? Well, we'd better make the arrangements. Oh, wait, I have a coupon. (audience laughing) So I have a daughter. We adopted a little girl from China. Thank you. (audience laughing) And even though I adopted, I still got the epidural. (audience laughing) That's right. I wasn't getting cheated out of that. (audience laughing) I had tried getting pregnant. I was about 45 at the time. And my doctor was a little concerned about my age, so she ran a lot of tests. And she called me into her office. She sits me down. She looks at me very seriously. And she says, &quot;Cathy, &quot;your eggs are old.&quot; Said, gee, well, so is your diploma, but I'm being polite. (audience laughing) Yeah, my husband had a vasectomy, and my eggs were old. So we decided to order out. (audience laughing) Chinese. (audience laughing) Yes, I am 66, and I'm raising a 19-year-old. (audience cheering) I am past menopause, raising a college sophomore. Excellent planning. I'm a member of the PTAARP. (audience laughing) 66 and 19, we're at such completely different stages of our lives. I remember when she finished toilet training, I was losing bladder control. (audience laughing) One day she asked me to blow up a balloon, and I had to change my pants. (audience laughing) It's not even a joke. (audience laughing) I'm just reporting at this point. (audience laughing) Yeah, 19. Anybody have a 19-year-old daughter? What a pleasure. Oh, man. She hates me, so she's right on track developmentally. (audience laughing) The only thing she likes to do with me is go to Costco. I love Costco. I really do love going to Costco. But it doesn't make sense for me to go there anymore because there's nothing I can buy there that I'll live to finish. (audience laughing) I can't use that many Q-tips. (audience laughing) Every time I'm there with my daughter and we're leaving, I point to the cart. And I look at her, and I say, &quot;someday this will all be yours. &quot;This is my legacy.&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah, I became a mom at 48. Crazy-- just crazy. And it was exhausting. I mean, it's exhausting to be a parent at any age. But to be a new mom at 48 was insane. I'm going to try to describe to you how exhausting it was for me when my daughter was a toddler. I had to get a colonoscopy. And I checked in to the hospital. And I laid down on the bed. And my very first thought was, oh, this is so relaxing. (audience laughing) I don't know why I haven't done this before. (audience laughing) You have to shove what? Oh, I don't care. As long as you're not three, you can't hurt me. (audience laughing) I have learned so much by being a mom. I've learned that I no longer have any time or any money left. It's a thing of the past. The closest I've come to having a facial lately is when I drain macaroni. (audience laughing) Sometimes if I want a really deep cleansing facial, I just open the dishwasher mid-cycle, and I shove my head right in. Then I close my pores with some Jet Dry, (audience laughing) That's my beauty regimen-- $0.59 a pop. (audience laughing) My daughter-- oh, man. She was always smart. She's still smart, but she was really smart when she was little. And one time she was bugging us to get her this little computer game thing-- this Nintendo DSI. And she kept talking about it. And she kept saying how much better off she would be if she had a Nintendo DSI how much better off the entire family would be if she had a Nintendo DSI. So finally, we're getting ready to go on a long car trip. And I realize, you know what, she's right. We would be better off if she had a Nintendo DSI. So I went out, and I bought her one. I came home. I handed it to her. She was thrilled-- over the moon. She opens up the package, and she played with it all afternoon, into the evening, until she had to go to bed. Next morning, she comes to find me and my husband. And she says to us, &quot;you've changed my life.&quot; A Nintendo DSI changed her life. Adopting out of a Chinese orphanage-- not so much. (audience laughing)