Dr. Charles Stanley: As best fully surrendered to only your Savior, but your Lord? Can you say, &quot;Yes, I'm Or would you, like most people, yonder, I can tell you when Well, we're not talking about We're talking about living a willing to be honest and open, God, willing to honestly and Jesus went to the cross, He took willing to acknowledge that God and willing to acknowledge that to say, &quot;I surrender.&quot; You see, that phrase, I It requires something. It's one thing to say it to I surrender, I surrender what? I surrender myself, all that I Lord, I surrender everything. Listen carefully. That's what He's listening for. That's what He is expecting. That's what He died for. That's His perfect will for all I surrender.&quot; What do I surrender? I don't just surrender this or I surrender my will to You. I want You to have your will in I yield everything. I don't have my grip on I want Your perfect will in my Now, what we surrender wouldn't Some people have to surrender surrender that. Only you know what is in your talking to you about for a long period of time. But you know when you get down keeps cropping up. There's something you keep So, what do you do? You tell God about it. You ask Him to forgive you of on your way. You say, &quot;Well, I know Right. And yet, two weeks later, two still dealing with it; whole Surrender is not easy. It's the giving up of my right. It's the giving up of something. It's the giving up of an It's giving up some opportunity. But surrender is not easy. And when Jesus, in those last with His disciples around the Lord's Supper and we talk about and so forth. But that wasn't such a beautiful Because listen to what the and proceeded as was His custom disciples also followed Him. and when He arrived at the that you may not enter into And He withdrew from them about down and began to pray, saying, remove this cup from Me, yet not Jesus was dealing with this of His will to the Father. You say, &quot;Well, He grew up He's always known.&quot; At the most critical moments of Father, &quot;If it's Your will.&quot; And we know that it was the crucified. And that's exactly what But He was willing to ask the cup to pass from Me, &quot;Yet not My When is the last time you ever will; not my will, Whatever You want in my life's Whatever You want out of my But if, above everything else, in my life. See, for a general, For a follower of Jesus, it So, think about your own life When's the last time in your full surrender.&quot; So, when I was thinking about morning, I decided I'd check So, I took a walk, took a pretty finished, I'd ask the Lord, If there's anything in my life things that are good, whatever where I am.&quot; So I took a walk and I came back thought, &quot;Well, I don't want to take another walk.&quot; So I did the same thing again, sure there's nothing hidden, nothing un-surrendered to Him. Because you see, that's what It's one thing to say I believe It's one thing to say my name is Book of Life. It's one thing to say I believe It's one thing to say I'm It's something else to say, What is it that needs to be Many people trust the Lord Jesus never has all of them. They never come to the place of the Lord. Because you see, when you get forgiveness of sin, and my Book of Life, and now I belong What an awesome, wonderful the other side of that? And here is Jesus speaking with He's committed to the Father, His crucifixion, what is He He's saying, &quot;Not My will, but When is the last time you prayed Father, not my will, but Your Maybe He's brought something up been clinging to, not just over there. You've never surrendered When is the last time you said, closets of my life and let's see And let's be sure when I close I'm fully surrendered.&quot; Many people, most people, will talking and praying to God about this, that, and the other; and themselves to Him. Was it easy for Jesus to say, will be done.&quot; No, it wasn't because He grew up was a form of punishment. He must have seen many times men crying, talking, whatever it He knew what crucifixion was all And He also knew that the crucified and bear the sin of He knew that. So, when I look at this passage willing,&quot; listen to this, &quot;If from Me.&quot; Is there any other way to do &quot;Yet not My will, So, I ask you this question. What is there in your life, as a clinging to? It may not, listen, it may not will of the Father for you. It may not be something you've holding on to. So, you say, &quot;Well, I'm not guilty of that.&quot; Is there something in your will Can you say, &quot;As best I know my the Lord Jesus Christ as my Whatever He wants is Whatever He wills is I yield my will to Him. I want Him to have all of me&quot;? Most people would have to say, but I know this over--this, it's And nobody's perfect. So, I just want to thank You. I yield myself to You, except in life. Lord, that's mine. Thank You, Father, for--thank No-no-no-no-no-no. That's not the way God operates. And the reason so many people Christian walk is simply because totally to Him. You say, &quot;Well, what do you mean I mean you come before the Lord, you say to Him, &quot;Whatever is in You, not please me, please You, I'm willing to confess, repent, down. I want to be totally yielded to Because, listen, you can never to be holding on to something You can never enjoy the you're holding on to something And I think about people who but never fully surrender. And they will boast about their Book of Life. And I think about all of these beautiful they are. What is there in your life that speak, He's brought it It's the one thing that when praise Him and sing and You go home after church and you music program we have and how the songs over and over What about the thing that you've What is there in your life able to say, &quot;Yes, Lord!&quot; Everything, not most things, not Put Your finger on anything and that doesn't fit Your perfect I think about people who live surrender themselves Maybe you got saved I was only twelve. I never heard the word surrender And so, I think about people who They get baptized. They go to church. They join the church. They do all the things that They go to a church where the know, not really fully, but just And so, they never hear, they to Jesus Christ?&quot; We say, &quot;Well, He's the Lord of Now, think about that. You can say, &quot;Jesus is the Lord different things to He is the Lord and He is in of my life? Am I fully surrendered, When a general says, &quot;I He gives up freedom, liberty and When we come to Jesus, we say my life to You. Now, nobody's perfect, God, so I things over here that don't my best, Lord, but,&quot; and we And I think that one of the are so unhappy, and you come to accuse you of anything. I love this fellowship, but it's get all caught up in these you want to shout. You can if you'd like. You can shout. But when the shouting's over, Lord, I surrender my life I want what You want. I will what You will. You can remove what's You can add what you That's what Jesus was doing. He was making the final Father and to the cross, It's easy for us to paint a Christian life's all about. We talk about answered prayer. We talk about our name is Book of Life. We talk about all of these We talk about all of the We can go on and on and on. But what about surrender? Can I honestly say, &quot;Lord Jesus, full surrender. No grip of anything, Send me where You Take what You want to take. Send what You want to send. Full surrender&quot;? That's what Jesus was doing. In the shadow of the cross, He &quot;Whatever You want, not My will, When is the last time you Lord, &quot;Father, in every area of to be done. Not my will, but Your will. Whatever pleases You is what I want, Lord&quot;? He wants you to trust Him life, believing that He will to become the person God wants And I think with so many people and skills that never give And I think about people who the oldest person here this people who have come a long ways They've been blessed in many &quot;Lord, I fully surrender myself I'm not holding on to anything. I want what You want. Take what You want to take. Here's my life.&quot; That's what That's what Lordship is about. If I should ask you, &quot;Is the natural tendency would be Well, if He's the Lord of your of everything: our conversation, submissive to Him. What would happen in your life surrendered yourself totally to Lord, here's my life. What would happen in your life? What would happen to What would happen What would happen to your What would happen to your heart family or you work with or know are not saved. What would happen in your life yourself to Jesus Christ? Fully surrendered, holding I surrender everything, I yield In your mind, if you were to say I surrender everything in my God would respond? He doesn't want what you own, He wants the surrender God can handle, listen, He can He gets ready. That's not the issue. The issue is does He have me? Does He have you? What is it that you What is it that's keeping you all your heart? All to Jesus I surrender, watch I surrender. No, all to Jesus I surrender, Have you ever said that I want You to have Yield myself to You completely. And Jesus had been seated around and you remember when you read disciples were thinking about arguing with each other about and here's Jesus facing Can you imagine what God would &quot;Lord, I've been playing I've been touting that I'm a I want You to have everything. Starting today, I want You to I surrender all that I am to Do you know why most people It's the devil's trick. But do you know why They're afraid that God is going that they're holding on to. And they'll say, &quot;Well, tell me, &quot;Suppose God takes What kind of God do you Suppose He does this. This idea of God that He's just horrible and painful. That's not who God is. He just wants you to surrender you, bless others through you, enjoying a side of the Christian will never enjoy. What would it take in your life surrender myself Whatever You want, God, The Christian life is a way of Christ who lives within us, who God's point of view. Does that mean no sickness, no no needs? That's not what that Because some of those things God wants them in our life for that's what it'll take to finish of our life things that are being the person He wants And if I should ask you: do you wants you to be? Naturally, you'd say yes. If I said, &quot;Well now, More than likely you'd say, that again. I'm not sure that's what The disciples were arguing about going to be the greatest among and discuss that. And what Jesus was concerned He said, &quot;Father, if there's any will but Your will be done.&quot; If you had to surrender yourself completely, no strings attached, what would that mean in What is it that you're holding already that God doesn't Is it somebody? Is it some thing? Is it a way of life? Is it a habit in your life? What is it that's keeping you surrendered to Jesus Christ as Because we do, we know this. He has the best plan. You can't improve on God's love. Can't improve on eternal life. What will it take to bring you discover what He would do in full charge? Say, &quot;Lord, here's my life.&quot; Do you want to live your life would happen? See, the Christian life is not And some people will tell you, Christian,&quot; because they have an you give up all fun. You give up your rights. You have to love even And on and on and on they go. But the truth is, when you fully, life begins at its best. That's when life begins So, what will it take What change would you have to &quot;Before I walk out of this surrendered to the Lord Jesus What would it take? What would happen in your life surrendered your whole being to whatever You want is what I Whatever You will is what I to be obedient&quot;? What changes do you think He'd You may be surprised, He as you think. But I have to think about this. I can either fully surrender my playing this game that, &quot;I'm I can, Lord. I'm going to do the best I can. Nobody's perfect. I know You fully understand, Yes, He does. He fully understands what you're force you into life at its best. Life at its best is a life fully Life at its best is a life that truly loves you. He forgives us of our sin. He writes our name in the Lamb's He's fixed it so that whenever And He's also made it possible with difficulty, hardships, Yes. But anchored to eternal life. Anchored to the God who is in will get us to heaven one Now, listen carefully. If you don't have Jesus, what do assurance about anything today, until death? If you don't have Jesus, If I should ask you: do you &quot;Oh yes.&quot; How much of it do you believe? &quot;Genesis to Revelation.&quot; If you really believe that, give your whole self to Him. Give Him the privilege of of your potential, When you breathe your last Only one thing, your Son, Jesus Christ, you So, nobody can answer that But I pray in Jesus's name that yourself when you get home, Him, &quot;Lord, maybe I don't surrendering everything And so, I hear this, &quot;But No, no, no, no, no. May I inform you that God's He's trustworthy. You can trust Him. He's not going to pull He's not going to deny you He's going to do exactly And for all of us who are He says, &quot;Absent from &quot;Present with the Lord.&quot; Safest place to be is And I trust that you'll think Can you honestly say, You may have to say it today, and the next week, the Because we don't always stay But have you ever come to the life, &quot;Fully surrendered.&quot; Amen? Father, we thank You We thank You for being We thank You for Your We thank You that You wrote our Thank You for the assurance But right now, Lord, we want You we think about every aspect of You, &quot;Oh Jesus, I want to be We want to be able to not just All to Jesus I surrender, all to I will ever love and trust Him, Make that our prayer, Father. In Jesus's name, amen.