When it comes to the search for life on Mars, we was asked by Timothy Walter on Patreon about find life, outside of Earth. Mars is certainly of its existence, Mars was in many ways possible that life could have emerged on its that made Mars much less hospitable. That's why places like Jezero Crater, to investigate life might once have flourished there. it struck me that this might not be the is another location that is an even more likely there - might even still be alive to this day. Answers, the series where we take questions you And today we're going deeper than ever before, I'm going to answer where I think is the most When it comes to life forming, though, we It's worth recognising that we're going to as there are many aspects of the origin of life I did a video recently on how life likely first there's still a lot of debate over the specifics. certain that life does exist or ever existed that is intriguing. NASA's Curiosity rover which mysteriously only emerges at night and Earth is mostly produced by living organisms, so on Mars too. However, this is not definitive make methane, as I talk about in one of So then, why do scientists think be) the home for life in the first place? in the first billion or so years after it how life first came to be on Earth, there for one. All life on Earth seems to need it. But chemical structures - the raw building blocks Something like a deep-sea thermal vent would help as they would release a nice spew of minerals and very basic protocells, if conditions were just you need some kind of selective pressure to others. This is quite similar to evolution, selective pressure to guide it. For animals, the survival of those best able to locate it. But like a cyclical environment that is sometimes structures can survive those kinds of changes. this stress-test are selected out, while those selection. A sort of evolution, but for rocks. within the first billion years after the planet of things. And it turns out that on Mars, these key factors and more. It also had to protect any fledgling life from deadly solar form without evaporating away. It had volcanism, those vital chemical buildings blocks. Sunlight If the presence of these things capable of supporting the genesis of life - However, there's a built-in time limit here. After had cooled enough that the mechanism powering few hundred million years later, the atmosphere the evaporation of all the liquid water on being locked in ice on the polar caps. during those 1-2 billion years after the planet's that this is the case, and so they've sent rovers for any ancient signs of life. Perseverance has which it got from drilling a few centimetres once held a large body of water and a delta. If remains could well have dropped to the bottom of There is even a chance that they're still the Journal "Astrobiology" found that and subjected to intense radiation, certain kinds hundreds of millions of years without too much given water again. This is why scientists must cross-contamination when exploring other worlds. exists in the water lakes on Mars today. "But "didn't you tell us that those lakes had all not entirely. While it seems unlikely that there there is a location where water can still be polar ice caps. In 2018 scientists announced beneath the thick ice. 3 more were confirmed by ecosystem on Earth called Lake Vostok, which is polar ice cap. Intriguingly, lake Vostok was and even potentially fish - some trace DNA was way, Lake Vostok is a fascinating ecosystem that's the chance of Mars' lake being another lake quite low. Given the temperatures on Mars being so polar lakes there have to be very salty. This And on top of that, perhaps the martian lakes are Science Advances offered other explanations for suggesting that reflective dust layers the same effect - a sort of optical on Mars, the lakes might not even be there. to search. But even Jezero has a point against is not a likely place where life could have and isn't home to volcanic springs, unlike other question is, could life have formed and would make it to craters like Jezero before Mars It's possible, but it's also possible that water evaporated, any bodies of water would have as any salt concentration would have ended up too much salt is bad for most forms of life, and hurdle for the survival of undeveloped protocells. to allow them to survive in such conditions. Even when combined with the depleting So, it's safer to search where life would have distributed. Thus, volcanic spring sites place to look for signs of early life than the primordial soup on Mars, those initial pools as so far we're not looking there. life on Mars might be right now, volcanic for them - they are gateways to underground can follow those nutrients down to their source? There exists a whole world of life known as the our feet. Life down there has learned and without air, in high-temperature and it's thriving. In 2018, Deep Carbon Observatory published that if you added up all the weight of it would add up to almost 400 times the carbon deep biosphere covers an area of nearly 2.3 all the oceans. It contains 70% of all species of small worms have been found down there. Overall than the surface. There has not yet been found as records are continually getting broken; is 121degC (hot enough to boil water) which was and the deepest is 10.5km beneath the sea level. deep in rock, and metabolic processes of living million times slower than the surface. With life live almost indefinitely - we don't yet know found at sites globally, suggesting that although bacteria are still somehow able to get around. the sheer scale of the deep biosphere on Earth. it comes to life on Mars. Deep beneath Mars' of the devastation going on at its surface. Life which means that once life formed in a volcanic warmer, nutrient-rich subsurface through cracks - the long metabolisms involved, it could still widespread ecosystem alive and well. We find it hard to explore the Deep Biosphere here or very deep mines. On Mars, landers like But to my mind, that's the most likely Of course, it's worth reiterating that there are first place, if it managed to make it out of if it evolved and adapted like it did on Earth. incredible to me to consider that while there's the potential for an entire thriving Perhaps that is the cause for the methane There's always a chance life spread to lakes it'll be deeper. I believe that when we have barely scratched the surface. answer? Send it over to us on Patreon, Astrum Answers episode. But for now, thanks When you have 5 minutes to spare in your day is to get out your phone and scroll through me scrolling through the infinite supply of to satisfy and it's not something I feel great enjoy the sponsor of today's video imprint in your day into a habit of learning it's an reads about philosophy science business get from learning daily feels much more what it teaches me about The Wider world see free trial and 20% off an annual subscription QR code or click Imprintapp.com/astrum in Thanks for watching and thanks to our crew make science knowledge freely available to and miss sometimes so your contributions help haven't already but you want to join the to get in on the party just sign up with a link to watch the whole video ad free see your our team once again a huge thank you from meanwhile click the link to this playlist for