This video is supported by KiwiCo If you've been following Starship from the always look this good. The first Starship prototypes looked incredibly survive a journey into space. The Starships that SpaceX produce now look work and welds that are much less noticeable. So how did Starship go from looking like this And will it ever look completely smooth and To answer this question, we need to look at place, more specifically, why it's big and Starship wasn't always destined to look In fact, it was originally meant to be made begun in California. This seemed like the most logical plan since already had most of their workforce based So it shocked everyone when a stainless steel But over time, people started to realize what Although carbon fiber is very strong, it starts Therefore, it would require a very thick heatshield during multiple reentries. Although stainless steel is heavier, it can only a very thin heatshield would be required. Stainless steel is also much cheaper than to an incredible 150. But this wasn't the first stainless steel Back in the 60's, NASA made an Atlas rocket This was so thin, that unless the rocket was completely crush it. And it did! But even if SpaceX had gone with carbon fiber, actually been made. In order to manufacture carbon composites, way, in order for the material to be strong Then the composites need to be cured in an For Starship's 9 meter wide sections, SpaceX exists at the moment. This is where stainless steel excelled. It could be put together quickly, using the And so, SpaceX began working on the world's But for some reason, it wasn't so shiny! One of the biggest challenges with the initial Initially, each ring was being made out of were around 4.5mm thick. Don't forget that the original Starship and didn't have any experience with building So the welding standards were, well, not great. But what exactly is welding and why is it The Office: Webster's Dictionary defines wedding as the fusing of two metals with a hot torch. The early Starship prototypes used a welding With this method, a voltage is passed through it and the metal, causing it to melt. The tip of the metallic wire also melts and filling up any cracks or air bubbles. With flux-core, the metal wire is surrounded a protective gas around the weld. This protects the weld and stops it from reacting cause corrosion. This works well when you're inside a controlled But SpaceX's main problem at the time was just a fairly large tent. And so, with most of the welding being done it's no surprise Starship looked so bad. The welds on the first mark 1 prototype were on the surface. In order to improve these welds, SpaceX started the surface. Although this seemed like a poor attempt to done to strengthen the welds. These sharp edges and tiny cracks act as pressure once Starship is pressurized. And so, grinding the surface removed these In theory, each weld should be as strong as But the initial Starship test proved that Mark 1 exploded when one of the horizontal And so, SpaceX brought in some major improvements Each ring was now made from thinner single less welding. They also moved from 301 to 304L stainless when welding. At this point, they also upgraded to TIP-TIG the welding arc, allowing the welder to tighten This produced much thinner welds and didn't SpaceX also started to buy robotic welding similar to the ones seen in Tesla factories. With these upgrades, SpaceX automated a large cleaner and more precise welds. They also began installing more stringers the metal from buckling under its own weight. But SpaceX didn't stop there. By now, SpaceX has likely moved onto laser With laser welding, the heat is much more allowing the ring segments to be welded in But in order to really improve the strength You see, when Starship's stainless steel a process called cold rolling. This involves passing the metal through a stretch out the grains in the metal. This makes the material stronger and harder. However, when Starship is welded, the heat This is where SpaceX's giant planishing Planishing involves hammering the welds down hardness of the surrounding metal. This has the added benefit of smoothing the But will Starship ever have a completely smooth To answer this, we need to go to Chicago to Made from several stainless steel sheets, process, involving a crew of 24 people using In order to do this on Starship, the entire to avoid having any visible lines around the Either way, SpaceX is throwing everything project come together so quickly. Speaking of amazing projects. KiwiCo creates super cool hands-on projects in STEAM like science, technology, engineering, Each monthly crate is designed by experts project to build like this walking robot. This crate teaches kids all about engineering powered by a motor. I love how it gets you thinking about engineering KiwiCo has 9 different subscription options, Each project provides kids with hours of entertainment Each box also comes with all the supplies no need for extra runs to the store. To support Primal Space and try out KiwiCo, off your first month. If you'd like to support the channel even can give your input on each video and get Thank you very much for watching and I'll