I reckon mushrooms are the most Quick, fun and always tasty. Now mushroom growing kits offer but they can be on the pricey side. So in this video I'm going to show you a deliciously simple way to and once you've got the hang of it Because you can never have I'm opting for a system that should prove so I can grow more mushrooms repeatedly. With this in mind I've opted for these 1 These can be found very cheaply indeed, by asking a local restaurant. They may have contained for example pickles. We'll need something for the and for this I'm using straw Then of course there's the mushroom spawn itself and for this I am using grain spawn which And today we're going to be specifically blue oysters which are and the most delicious in my humble opinion. The mushroom world's your oyster. And then we've got some surgical and if you're wondering what on all will become clear in a bit. Let's start by preparing the buckets. Now I don't have a suitable size Cheers Trevor, really appreciate that. No problem. Thanks a lot. I'm just drilling a series of and finally I'm just going to drill some This will stop water pooling at the bottom Okay that's the drainage holes done. And then to finish finish off I'm of bits of sticking out plastic here just to give nice smooth edges. Now you can use special mushroom growing bags, but by drilling our own buckets like this we can reuse these time and time If you want to use something a bit bigger then you could go for something like and for something this size I And they would be spaced about 6 in or 15 cm apart and probably have up to four rows Let me show you the straw I'm using today. I'm using this straw from a pet store. It's clean, but crucially it comes and that's important because that's like the roots of can get in and colonize it a little bit quicker You you could use straw from a bale smaller pieces first, so do bear that in mind. To ensure trouble-free growth free I'm going to pasteurize my straw and I'm just going to plunge it in Now this is where the sack comes in of course, but if you don't have one of these you or kind of hessian sack, something now we are looking for a temperature of 140 This hot water will pasteurize of the microorganisms but not all of them. It will leave some of the good guys that If I was to sterilize the straw by boiling perversely our straw is This offers us that sweet spot Now I've already got some hot water and I've just topped it up with the boiling water to give us that kind of perfect That should be enough I reckon. Now let's just get our straw in there. We want all of the straw to be in contact with the just so it's completely underwater and now this will stay in here for about 1 hour. Kind of feels like a witch's cauldron doesn't it? Double double, toil and trouble, Great stuff, this has had its allotted and it should take about half an hour to drip dry. So this is now cool to the and if I give it a squeeze you can see there's there's no more drips coming The wet straw will be quite heavy, And now for the real magic, inoculation time. But before we do anything else because we don't want any contaminants spoiling Now you could use something with gloved hands, but I'm just going to use this kind of sterilizing that's another story. Now this is quite safe and I'm just going to rub obviously the buckets and the lids, anything that's going to come and my hands as well. So give it a stir and then Don't forget to wipe down the actual well and even the outside of the spawn bag itself, so every single surface is super squeaky clean. Time to fill. And I'm going to start with a and just push it right down, don't be That'll do. And then in with our first layer of our spawn. Just break it up as best as you can like this and sprinkle over the top and we'll be working in layers like this Now as a rule we're aiming for between to 90 to 95% of volume of our straw. You can get away with a little less of the spawn but that opens us up to the risk so this gives it a bit of a head start and And and that's us right up to the top now and it's on with the top which I 'And what about that surgical Well good question. What we're going to do now is simply cover up Now this serves two purposes: Firstly it's going to keep and protected from contaminants kind of blowing in and because it's breathable it's going to keep but it will also help to retain some of the which of course we know mushrooms absolutely love. There we go, that's the last one. Now these are going to be kept at room temperature Now over the next 2 weeks or so the mycelium and throughout the straw completely Look at this one. Now this is one I started only and you can see it's completely turned white, the mycelium has fully colonized our straw so we're on to the next stage of the So I'm going to remove the surgical here we've got the white of the and obviously the holes are where Just pop the lid back on to keep As our mushrooms grow it's really that's really humid and also get some light. Now in the summer that could be but as it's winter I'm going to put out of direct sunshine and that's important. To keep the the humidity up I'm once in the morning and once again in the evening. If I can remember, at lunchtime as well. Just give them a good mist like that. And I've got them on a plate It's another few days on and That's just the tiny embryonic kind of pop out and explode into growth These guys, believe it or not will It's the speed with which these mushrooms I get giddy with excitement coming down the stairs in the morning and seeing how much Imagine getting the kids involved Never mind Xbox or Playstation, this is where it's at! These guys are now ready to harvest Let me bring them over. Now the the best time to harvest is when the caps haven't quite fully opened out Harvest them while they're still spores which they produce when they're And to harvest, very simple just reach behind Now all of these holes are growing at different so just take them when they are and of course during that time keep the humidity Now once you've harvested all of the holes just leave it a few more and you may well find that you get a and perhaps even a third flush. Once your bucket is completely done cropping as seed for a new batch of mushrooms. I'd suggest breaking it down into thirds to inoculate three new buckets. And I'd do it exactly the same as before. Layer your pasturized straw with and then more pasturized straw and so on in layers until and then grow it on in exactly the same way. Now it's a couple of weeks on from using the and I'm really pleased to see there is some mycelium colonizing the new and it's all layered up, so I'm pretty this lot will be bearing mushrooms as well so we can keep the cycle going. If you'd like to try growing mushrooms from then do check out this video next. In the meantime these guys are If you have any recipes for using them by the way I'll catch you next time.