- Fascism is a cult of the leader, who promises national restoration in the face of supposed leftists, liberals, minorities, homosexuals, women, in the face of what the fascist of the country's media, by these forces. And that's why you need a really macho, powerful, violent response. The fascist leader says Fascism is right-wing by nature. It's based on ultra-nationalism. However, you can have that are ultra-nationalist There is left-wing authoritarianism. There are bad things on the left. Stalin killed many, many people. Mao killed many, many people. These are terrible figures. But not all terrible things are fascist. Fascism is a very particular When thinking about about these individual They come as a bundle. My name is Jason Stanley. I'm the Jacob Urowsky at Yale University and most recently, &quot;How Fascism Works: The We forget that many as democratic political parties. We forget that Hitler, the Fascist parties start as fascist social and political movements before they come to power. So it's important to see in societies that do not (dramatic music) All nationalism involves a mythic past. You can say, &quot;Look, we're Polish people,&quot; people who spoke Polish and another bunch of Polish and you can talk about when we were all Polish together. That's a fine mythic past, but then there's the fascist mythic past. In the past, we were great. Wherein did our greatness consist? In our military. And in the past, the dominant racial And then the fascist leader says, &quot;That has been taken from you by the leftists and communists. They wanna weaken our military. They wanna weaken our greatness.&quot; Propaganda is ubiquitous, In political propaganda, your main message is something other than the the information you're conveying. Fascist propaganda is a It's based around a The political opponent, to your very existence They are the other. When they are in charge, So the structure of fascist that the other are fundamentally As Hitler says in &quot;Mein Kampf,&quot; &quot;Science is only useful insofar as it strengthens the nation.&quot; Fascism is a cult of the leader. It involves the leader setting the rules about what's true and false. So any kind of expertise, reality, all of that is a challenge to If science would help him, then he can say, &quot;Okay, I'll use it.&quot; Institutions that teach in all its complexity are always a threat to the fascist leader. The center of democracy is truth. You're not free if you've been lied to. Nobody thinks the people The people of North Korea will vote for Dear Leader every time It's not a free vote because they don't have Equality, similarly, requires truth because equality and we all have the same amount of money. It doesn't mean we all have the same car. It means political equality, that each of our voices matters the same. And political equality means If someone really powerful is humiliated when they're caught lying, that's the core of political equality. So if you're gonna rip the you get people used to lies. Here's a fact about humans: we all pretty much suck to One group of us is not better Hierarchy is central here because it's the big lie What racism but one big lie? Racism is a lie that one You're told this religion is better, this race is better, It's really a moral claim, And then once you have hierarchies set up, you can make people very about losing their Hierarchy goes right into victimhood because once you convince people that they're justifiable then you can tell them that German Christians are victims of Jews. White Americans are victims Men are victims of feminism. Once you convince people that they have earned a position on the hierarchy over others, then you can tell them that Loyalty to the dominant And the minority group is by Law and order in fascist of a minority group who they're law-abiding, and the members of the dominant group by their very nature are law-abiding. By definition, the leader So law and order doesn't mean justice. Law and order doesn't mean equality. Law and order structures who's Everywhere around the world, no matter what the situation is, in very different the fascist leader comes and tells you, &quot;Your women and children are under threat. You need a strong man to They make conservatives of transgender rights or homosexuality, other ways of living. These are not people trying They're trying to destroy your life, and they're coming after your children. What the fascist politician who aren't fascist at all, and they say, &quot;Look, I know you might not like my ways. You might think I'm a womanizer. You might think I'm But you need someone like me now. You need someone like it isn't just trying for equality. It's coming after your family.&quot; Fascist movements typically, rest on an urban/rural divide. The cities are where there's decadence, where the elites congregate, there's criminality, In the city, there's not real work. The pure, hard-working, real in the rural areas, where they When our politicians talk or urban voters, we all Arbeit macht frei, &quot;Work This was written on The idea is that the and they need to be made to work. Free labor. The minority group and the leftists, they're lazy by their nature, and it gives them a work ethic. Labor unions are run by communists who are trying to make things easier. Hard work is a virtue. In liberal democracy, we don't value people What would happen to disabled They would then have no value. It's why the Nazis had the T4 because the disabled life unworthy of life, because to be valued was Each of these individual elements is not in and of itself fascist, but you have to worry when when honest conservatives by people who tell them, &quot;Look, I know you don't accept everything we do. You don't accept every doctrine. But your family is under threat. Your family is at risk. So without us, you're in peril.&quot; Those moments are the times when we need to worry about fascism.