Okay so everyone always thinks about literally right there in your face but to keep standing Pinocchio would need to out the added weight of that branch and end. But look! compensate which means that he must have his uh-oh .... Oh my.... I like BIG BUTTS and I cannot lie! Hello Internet! no corporate strings to hold us down - like child slavery and Disney films. way back to that Disney classic about Pinocchio. Now as a kid this movie just Nightmare fuel. turning into literal work mules! It's Pinocchio actually raises a lot of throw money during marionette shows like who go to Pleasure Island become see throughout the movie also people? actually do walk around as living human. What about Jiminy Cricket? We of literally lighting a fire inside a are gonna have to wait for another day favorite subject - business. Specifically bizarro 1940s bad boys utopia. "Look at yourself. Smoking tobacco! Playing pool!" Today's scary reality that Pleasure Island as we actually existed in real life. I like to Child Slavery Without Really Trying&quot;. But that you guys have seen this Pinocchio kids nowadays Tangled is probably like Disney classic. Oh boy! Anyway, this guy vaguely European disney-esque country a marionette named Pinocchio and then . the Blue Fairy comes down and grants his the wish half way because apparently I've given you life because So instead of Pinocchio becoming a real boy he instead becomes a sees that his marionette has come to situation though he then shoves Pinocchio out the hours now surely you can figure out two Foxy swindlers - Honest John Foulfellow and Gideon who proceeded to swindle Pinocchio several times and becoming an actor. Until finally leaving a horde of kidnapped children. Once boys arrived at Pleasure Island they all the rides. So basically they become day bro! But every good vacation has to regret all that indulgence when they It's revealed that the big scheme behind transform boys into donkeys, who are then owners of Pleasure Island to make there actually a profit to be had here ridiculous and far-fetched is there any them into donkeys and then selling them profitable business venture? I mean look park! So should the owners of Pleasure - or I guess in this case fully-assed yet another Six Flags? and donkey sales are actually show you how! Aren't Disney episodes fun? donkey actually worth? Going by a equine.com's prices it seems like most jackasses today sell between $500 and MTV branded jackass in which case you're Since our child jackasses are certainly $2,000 per jackass price range. &quot;You are a Pinocchio happens sometimes indicated by the ferris wheel first for inflation and estimate that each dollars in Pinocchio's time. And just how able to sell off in a batch? Well to many little boys he's gotten himself a The best way to estimate the total boys at Pleasure Island, but rather it's Mississippi style steamboat that also tells us how many victims we're boats of this size with three decks have people. So given the Coachman's records - I mean just look at the kids assume that he's stuffing the maximum possible. Especially since children are boys aren't carrying any luggage. So people to account for the boat crew of a room for a whopping 2105 young boys. It's that's going on here in Pleasure Island. rampant racism and underage smoking! So for donkeys - minus 1 because hundred and fifty nine thousand nine seem like all that much but remember the century. Accounting for inflation, the four million two hundred eight thousand eighteen dollars. So things are looking right? But the one thing that every you go walking off with your profits you And running Pleasure Island isn't a the costs of two thousand boys drinking destroying an entire amusement park. As I boatload of boys managed to level hellscape. It's like the world of Fallout. Aw just two thousand young rambunctious how much is it costing the coachman to time they bring one of these boatloads over? Well initially I calculated out every little piece of wood and every found out was that most of the repairs ultimately didn't make that big of a were looking at about a thousand dollars thirty-eight old-timey dollars, and about to restock the destroyed mansion with apart. Both of those numbers not nearly The bigger ticket items though is where running this business we're basically cars and basically the entirety of the carousel - actually been bent down the middle. This what kind of Hell beasts are these to even be able to try bending a did it take to accomplish that sort of some solid steel marionette who's also Anyway these are the expensive things to numbers they don't wind up being all surprisingly cheap. Which is honestly dangle 40 feet in the air on one. Smaller fifteen thousand dollars. Back in 2008 sale on eBay for a mere $50,000 and it's both large and famous. Which is jacking the coachman isn't feeling too spendy estimate or 572 old timey adjusted to making a dent into his total profits. higher. The cheapest option is from the and twenty thousand dollars or twelve costs. Now they wouldn't have to buy a the turntable still worked. But from what is totaled! Which means that the coachman dollars for a new merry-go-round every one of these little trips. So between the with every new batch of kids plus all coachman is looking at about thirteen costs. Which still leaves him with a four dollars or four million dollars of cost here is actually still coming! The coachman has to pay lowlife scum of loot that we actually get to see. This totally devastating to carry and ran thing holds by comparing it to the size stein - which we see it lined up against nineteen hundred cubic inches of gold. Which converts to a whopping 1211 troy ounces or 83 pounds of gold. Don't you be this has got to be the amount of gold by far is the Coachman's largest expense hundred thirty one thousand seven three cents as of writing this script. one hundred seventy nine dollars in Oh poor coachman, look at all those human Now our total earnings per boatload of Coming to about eighty three thousand every time or a bit over two million. Now profit for kidnapping two thousand but we're still neglecting one huge just been assuming that Pleasure Island built in the first place! And building for any child kidnappers to be. So let's there's the cost of that swell cutter roller coasters cost about five about $190,000 in Pinocchios time. That possibly earn at Pleasure Island. So we first time at the rodeo. he says, &quot;They never come back... AS BOYS!&quot; In order to make this business need more than one boatload of boys. Now building the structures that we see on gate, mansion, a tower, a pool hall, slides, really fast! than most amusement parks, having only a about 2,000 guests at a time. So we'll on costs of other similarly sized parks. of Universal's Diagon Alley for Harry reported four hundred million dollars to include a hundred million for the escape knock that one off, but that still leaves for one small section of a theme park. whopping eleven point four million only the size of just that one small huge amount of upfront costs in creating coachmen years to recoup. So this whole upfront cost of 11.5 million dollars other rides, the employees, 76210 dollars in another batch and they completely in a hundred and thirty nine boatloads he would even start to turn a profit. thousand children. &quot;Won't somebody PLEASE think of the CHILDREN!&quot; It's gonna be Coachman's main source of children France kept remarkable records of child were basically the only country who did numbers. France recorded about a hundred children annually in the mid-1800s and the coachman and his goons could have even half of those numbers the coachman back in less children of three European countries! conceivable that he could have been in all of Europe. While most other they weren't even keeping records of this? Why are there so many parentless the wars happening in Europe during this whose parents had died in the war. Those coachmen snatching up and reselling. In abandoned children during this time incredibly high that the coachman could reselling 292,000 children! Making it one acts in history! This is the truly play in Pinocchio and worst of all the the movie. Old-school Disney is pretty but Pinocchio is especially brutal kind of justice served to any of the unquote good ending the only one we see only one. All of the other 2,000 children we actually watch get transformed into them don't have a Blue Fairy protecting salt mines to the highest bidder and the all left to run their business for time you hear Jiminy Cricket talking three hundred thousand kids who'd like That's just a theory! think everyone deserves a chance to &quot;Pinocchio in Outer Space&quot;! The adventure is based on a true portrayal of outer