Fast, nimble, powerful, swooping in on its targets with cannons roaring. It can be none other than the Fairey Firefly. In September of 1939, Ferry Aviation submits a design in answer to specification N540, the fleet air arm's call for a two-seat naval fighter. By next June, the construction of a prototype is approved. It's maiden flight comes some 18 months later, in December of 1941. It is in those dark days, the early phase of the Second World War, that the Firefly first takes to the sky. As a fighter it wasn't bad. Its great secret was, it was fitted with flaps, and these flaps gave it maneuverability and also extra range by proper use of them, and it was a great asset. Slung under its wing, the Fulmar, by almost two-thirds. Rolls-Royce Griffin engines give it power enough to see it through its long missions out at sea. Good low-speed handling make the Firefly well-suited for naval service. On the carriers from which it operates, arrester wires can bring a landing plane from 90 knots to a standstill in just 30 feet. Not a bit too soon, for a single mistake spells disaster. In July of 1944 comes Operation Mascot, a trial by fire. Barely even commissioned, the HMS Indefatigable is sent with its complement of Fireflies to engage the Tirpitz, Germany's deadliest battleship. Fireflies provide fighter cover for a series of strikes against the Kriegsmarine's Titan. The attack is ultimately unsuccessful, but the Firefly has proven itself. And while the fleet air arm prefers to use American Hellcats and Corsairs in Europe, the Firefly sees extensive service with the British Pacific Fleet. In the Far East, fleet carriers resound to the sound of its comings and goings. It is sent in advance of bonding parties to clear the skies of Japanese fighters. Following the end of the war, Britain is generous. Allied nations stock their squadron with the proven craft. In Canada, Australia, Holland, and elsewhere, fireflies take to the skies to defend the ships which they call home. In nearly a dozen nations and across five continents, the firefly gives reliable service for over two decades. And wherever the kingdom's duty draws it, there it also goes. During the Korean War, British and Australian Fireflies fly ground attack raids and anti-shipping patrols in support of the Allied war effort. Six squadrons operate from five carriers, including the HMS Implacable, Indefatigable, and Triumph. In Malaya, Fireflies operate in the ground attack role. Very versatile, very much liked by the pilots, as indeed the Garret had been, and it changed its shape about halfway through its career. The Firefly was a good useful aircraft but not extraordinarily fast. It had very reasonable performance but when it came to the Mark 4 and 5 the whole shape of the aircraft considerably, gave a much better performance and indeed it was, if you add it up, it was one of the most versatile aircraft the Navy had and robust and very reliable. It had a wonderful both engine and airframe reliability. Proving its versatility, the Firefly goes on to evolve far beyond its intended role. At first as a night fighter and a reconnaissance craft, but toward the end of its life, most Fireflies are converted into anti-submarine aircraft. In this they precede another fairy plane, the innovative Gannet. In 1956, the fleet air arm trades Fireflies for Gannets. When the production line finally rolls to a stop, over 1,700 fireflies have been built, in a total of 22 types. At a factory in Wolverhampton, the finishing touches are being put on a new kind of fighter airplane, being developed by Bolton Paul Aircraft. But this fighter is far from ordinary. Unlike its counterparts, it sports a rear-facing turret. This innovation, originally intended to shoot down enemy bombers, will see its greatest success against German fighters. Propelling it is a single Rolls-Royce Merlin 3 piston engine, giving it a respectable top speed of 303 mph. This is the Defiant. Ah, well, that appeared with a flash in the pan. It was... it rather looked like a hurricane. And they were going to fit a turret on this fighter and mix it with gaggles of hurricanes, and hoping that it would surprise their enemy fighters. It is first deployed with No. 264 squadron, high above the beaches of Dunkirk, where it performs spectacularly. Covering the retreating ships from never-ending waves of enemy fighters, the Defiant proves its worth. In a single day, May 29, 1940, 65 German planes fall to its relentless assault. It catches the Luftwaffe completely by surprise. No sooner do they get on the tail of a Defiant, taking it for a hurricane, than they are shot down in a hail of fire. Indeed, initially that was true, but it didn't take them long to twig this, and they also twigged that they had no forward-firing armament. This critical flaw leaves the Defiant open to attack by enemy fighters, most of all the agile Messerschmitt Bf 109. They are able to use their superior maneuverability to intercept it from below or from the front, where its turrets offer no protection. So it was a very short period of, if you like, success. And they realized it was going nowhere in this configuration, so it was relegated to a night fighter and given a small airborne intercept radar on it. But the writing was on the wall and it eventually was relegated further to target toy. Short, yes, but prominent. Over the course of its career, more than a thousand Defiants are produced in various configurations. During the Blitz, the Defiant, now serving as a night fighter, shoots down more enemies than any other type of aircraft. It is withdrawn from combat in 1942 in favor of the Bristol Bowfighter and the de Havilland Mosquito, though it continues to be used for high-speed gunnery training and target towing until the end of the war. As the naval conflict against the Japanese Empire rages, dive bombers prove to be one of America's most potent weapons. Large, slow-moving warships make the perfect prey for these swooping hunters. But by 1939, the US Navy is shopping around for replacement to the venerable Douglas Dauntless. Curtiss Aircraft submits a design and everything looks good on paper. The plane is faster and has longer range than its predecessor. But in practice, problems quickly begin to arise. Countless modifications delay the schedule by more than two years, meaning that production doesn't begin until mid-1942. In addition to Curtis's own factory in Ohio, two Canadian plants, Fairchild Aircraft and Canada Car &amp; Foundry, are contracted to manufacture the Helldiver. The latter falls under the management of Elsie McGill, Canada's infamous Queen of the Hurricanes. Despite constant modifications, taking more than 880 before production and many more afterwards, problems persist throughout its career. Pilot complaints are frequent and lead to the plane's designation jokingly being referred to as, son of a bitch, second class. Captain Eric Brown, a test pilot with the Royal Navy, recalls... The American Helldiver, disaster. I've never known an aircraft that was introduced into service and had so many modifications applied to it to get it right. It followed a rather simple aircraft, the Douglas Dauntless, as a dive bomber. It was bigger, could carry a bigger load, etc. But, once you've said that, you've said it all. It had nothing to recommend it, once it got in the air. It suffered a lot from, once you popped the dive brakes, for the dive bomber, it suffered a lot from vibration and was very difficult to sight accurately with it and altogether frankly it was not a pleasant airplane to fly, particularly on turf. Despite the reputation it earns among pilots and ground crew, the Helldiver is not an unmitigated failure. Its excellent range is perfect for crossing the vast reaches of the Pacific Ocean. With them on board, the striking radius of American carriers is greatly extended. What's more, it is some 14 miles per hour faster than the Dauntless, making it an elusive target for Japanese fighters. The Helldivers' trial by fire comes in November of 1943 when planes from the USS Bunker Hill fly bombing sorties against Japanese forces in Papua, New Guinea. It is in the Pacific that the Helldiver distinguishes itself and makes a significant contribution to winning the war. In the spring of 1945, as Operation Tenichigo launches a massive suicide mission against American forces on Okinawa, hell divers are instrumental in bringing down the two largest warships of World War II. The crown jewels of the Japanese Navy, the Titanic battleships Yamato and Musashi. Following the end of the war, surplus hell divers are sold to allied navies whose squadrons have been devastated by wartime attrition. They find further use in Greece, Italy, Portugal, Australia, Thailand, and finally France, where they're used heavily throughout the first Indochina War. But as the 1950s come to a close, the era of dive bombers has come and gone. This happened in 1941. 41. I was ferrying a wildcat from Scotland down to Croydon. I ran into extremely bad weather over Lincoln and it was any port in a storm. I went into Cranmore. Although they were reluctant to have me, they realized the weather was bad and they let me land there. And I was astonished to find a place alive with civilians. And I thought, this is an RAF hell. Where are all the RAF people? And there were civilians everywhere. When I got out and asked what it was all about, there was a great conspiratorial air about everybody. Nobody would tell me why these people were all there. And I was roomed up with a guy who was a very nice fellow. I became very firm friends with him, and I kept asking what all this was about, and he wouldn't say, and as a diversion he took me off to the cinema that evening to keep me quiet. And anyway, I transpired, I find out later that he was the installation engineer for the jet engine on the E28, the first ever jet aircraft in this country. But anyway, the next day dawned and it was not a very good day and the control tower, I was about the only visitor there, you see, with a wildcat, with any sort of aeroplane, and they said would I do a weather test and which I did and I noticed when I was up, it was very good weather but enough to see that there was an awful lot of activity around one particular hangar and the hangar doors were wide open and I flew very low when I came back to land and was hoping to see into this hangar but I really couldn't. But I was getting more and more intrigued with what was going on. And I did two or three of these weather tests and eventually I said, well, you know, the ceiling was such and such. And it was flyable just, but it was fairly late in the evening by this time. While I was mooning around my Wildcat getting it refuelled etc. All this activity and the other hangar, suddenly out of it popped an aeroplane with no propeller on it. And I'd never seen a jet aeroplane in my life and I didn't really know anything about jet propulsion. And anyway, I watched this with great interest and it eventually took off about 7 o'clock in the evening and the screaming noise that it went off at and I was absolutely intrigued by it and of course nobody would tell me anything about it this always they were just quiet but there was much jubilation at the end of it where I landed. And I left probably not much wiser than when I left Cranwell the next day. And it transpired, of course, this was the first flight of a British jet aircraft. And strangely enough, by turn of the wheel, I eventually was flight testing this aircraft in the jet flight at Farnborough. Let me say, the first impression was, in flying a jet aircraft, is the first thing that strikes you as a pilot is the marvellous view you have. There's no big engines sticking out in front of you. That's the first thing. Second thing is when you get in the air, the total lack of vibration, which you have so much in piston-engined aircraft, and certainly a lack of noise. There may be a lot of noise outside, but you're sitting ahead of the jet engine and there's virtually no noise at all. So these were the three big impressions you make. And the acceleration on this little airplane wasn't bad, but considering it was a very small engine, it had a remarkable performance. And eventually the Meteor came out, not, I may say, not very long indeed after. It was a disappointment because I would class the Meteor, the Meteor 1, as a very pedestrian aircraft. 1940s, maybe 1950, the Air Force conducted a competition for a long-range jet-propelled escort fighter. The competition consisted of the XF-88, built by McDonald, the XF-90, built by Lockheed, and the XF-93, built by North American. All three, and they built two prototypes of each airplane and ran them at competition. All three airplanes flew quite well, with one minor exception, they didn't have much range, which didn't make them much use for what they were wanted. So the program was cancelled. However, people wanted to do something with the prototypes that were left over, and the propeller lab at Wright-Patterson, trying to preserve itself the idea of converting the number 2 XF-88 to be propelled by a turboprop engine with a propeller, the purpose being to develop a supersonic propeller capability. Now, bear in mind, it still had its regular power plant of two J-34s with afterburners. McDonald built They put an Allison XT-38 turboprop engine in the front part of the airplane, which took up an awful lot of space, and put a propeller on it. The original propeller was one that the propeller lab felt was reasonably safe to go to high speed. It was a 10-foot diameter. It was a very, very interesting program. Because of the diameter of the propeller, if the nose gear contracted completely, the propeller would hit the ground. And also it was not designed with an offset vertical fin like all propeller-driven airplanes are to counteract torque on takeoff. So what we did was we always took off with the propeller in the feathered position in an X, so the So the blades were as far from the ground as possible, which in turn caused all sorts of comment. And since I was doing this at Lambert Field, which is a commercial field in St. Louis, from airplanes waiting to take off, you know, it would always come from the power, the effective. I presume that pilot knows what he's getting ready to do with his engine feathered. But yes, we did. The other thing I should mention was that if you thought that the airplanes were short on fuel to begin with, after they put that XT-38 in, they took out so much fuel that this airplane had 288 gallons of fuel. Now that was to run two J-34s with afterburners plus the turboprop. So the flights lasted in 15 and 20 minutes. Take off, climb to whatever test altitude it was, make one acceleration, throttle back, feather the prop, come in and land. During the latter part of the program at high altitude, when I'd finished the test run at whatever speed I could get the airplane up to, and the propeller worked reasonably well, you could notice the increase in power above.9 Mach number, the airplane would go about.91 with its afterburners. Then, as you added power, you'd get up to about.94. The airplane, however, when I started to dive it, would get up to about.95, and then that would be about it. Well, McDonald was claiming that I was getting supersonic in these dives based on their airspeed calibration. Well, we didn't quite buy that in that we had a rule in flight tests that no jump, no supersonic. So on the very last flight scheduled out there, I told our people to stand out on the ramp and I would end up aiming the dive at the field. And if they heard a sonic boom, we'd say, okay, you went supersonic, regardless of what the airspeed indicator said. Well, it turned out that I ended up overflying the field ever so slightly. So instead of just pushing over into a dive, I rolled over and split S. And, wow, things started happening real fast. I got the jump, plenty. I got a firelight, my turboprop, and I had a turbo prop and both jet engines, but eventually everything slowed down, the lights all went out, and I came in and landed. The tower, in the long sense, informed me that, yes, I had been supersonic. Several years later, when I was managing the General Dynamics office in Houston, old Mr. down at the Cape for a mercury shot. And I was introduced to him and somebody said, you know, and he's the one that flew the XF-88B. And he said no, except he got about three feet away when all of a sudden it stopped and he turned around and said, I remember you. You're the people that, you're the one that caused us 3,000 claims against us for broken windows. Oh, Mr. Mac never lost sight of the important things. On July 19, 1934, a group of B-10 bombers departed from Washington, D.C. Their final destination would be America's Arctic outpost, Alaska. The Army Air Corps wanted to demonstrate the possibilities that a long-range bomber could offer to the United States military. The aircraft made in Baltimore, Maryland by Glen L. Martin was a revolutionary plane. The first of its kind to be made from all metal parts, it was 50% faster than the biplane bombers of its time. 121 of them would be ordered by the Air Corps from 1933 to 1936, with Hap Arnold describing the B-10 as an air power wonder of its day. Its retractable landing gear, its rotating gun turrets, and its enclosed cockpits were all state-of-the-art features that would lay the foundation for America's future bombers, including the B-29 and the B-17 Flying Fortress, the aircraft that ultimately replaced the B-10. Taking off from the capital at Bowling Field, the B-10s would land in Fairbanks, Alaska, five days later, a distance of over 8,000 miles, through areas that had never been seen before. The successful trip would show the American government the advantages long-range aircraft could offer over both land and sea. For this triumph, Arnold would receive the McKay Trophy. Well, the Wellington, as you know, was of geodetic construction. And if one wanted to make a high altitude airplane, for reconnaissance purposes, one would be faced with a tricky proposition of fitting a pressure cabin in there, in geodetic arrangement. One has to say Bickers made a first-class job of it. They had a capsule which was an elongated capsule rather like a large sausage with three crew in that capsule. It was very successful and it had a little I would say almost porthole on top of the fuselage for the pilot. It was like a fishbowl, actually, a goldfishbowl. But it had the same skinning, double skin, as the Welkin later produced. But it was purely for the pilot. There were windows in the capsule for the crew, and these were always also sandwiched windows. The aeroplane was not pleasant to fly at all. One of the problems was with a strange arrangement for the pilot, who was sitting literally with his head in this goldfish bowl, it was difficult to see anything in the cockpit. position where you could barely reach the throttle on one hand and the fuel cocks on the other. They were so distant from them in this elevated position. I find it difficult to fly in bad weather conditions. It's almost as bad as looking through a clear view panel on a thing like a spitfire. And all together, it was certainly not my favourite airplane. 616 Squadron, Changing of the Guard. On June 12, 1945, a new and deadly aerial threat appeared in the skies over Southern England. Fast, sleek, and powered by a pulse jet, it was the world's first cruise missile, the V-1 Flying Bomb. In response, the RAF rushed into service its most advanced and secret weapon, the Gloster Meteor called for an armament of six 20mm cannons. This was later scaled back to four, and when the Meteor entered service, it was armed with a Hispano Mark V short-barreled cannon. During the Second World War, the Hispano 20mm cannon was the standard armament for all British-built fighters. In 1943, a new, lighter version of the cannon entered service, equipping the Tempest and the Meteor. Unfortunately, the Meteor would be plagued by constant jamming, which was caused by updrafts in the carriage case ejector slots. type flew, Gloster Aircraft received an initial production order in September 1941 for 20 aircraft. The power plants for the first 20 production aircraft were Rolls-Royce W2B23 Welland engines, each rated at 1,700 pounds of thrust. Of the 20 Mark I's built, only 16 were delivered to the RAF. Surprisingly, the very first production Mark 1 was shipped to the United States in exchange for the lowly Bell YP-59A. The other three airframes were used extensively for engine testing and trials purposes. 616 South Yorkshire Squadron of the Auxiliary Air Force was selected to be the first all-jet RAF squadron. In July 1944, the squadron's mess was rife with rumours and speculation. Most pilots believed their ageing Mark IX Spitfires would be replaced with the new Mark XIVs powered by the Rolls-Royce Griffin, but a few of the pilots knew differently. On July 21st, two Meteor 1s were delivered. For the pilots, it must have been an awe-inspiring moment. They'd been chosen to fly the most exciting new fighter in Allied service. The squadron's first assignment was to battle the V-1 flying. The Meteor's performance at low altitude was ideally suited for the task. Piston engine fighters like the Spitfire Mark 14 and Tempest were hard pressed to catch the V-1 at low altitudes. Their engines were geared for high altitude performance. In contrast, the Meteor's top 410 miles per hour at sea level made it the ideal V1 interceptor. By early August 1944, 616 was equipped with seven meteors. While not as potent as Germany's shark-like Messerschmitt Me 262, the meteor did achieve a world's first. On August 4, Flight Officer Dixie Dean brought down a V1, but not by gunfire. fire. With his guns jammed, he maneuvered his fighter in close and used his wingtip to nudge the V-1 off course, causing it to crash. It was the world's first jet versus jet encounter, and by the end of August, 616 Squadron was credited with 12 V-1s destroyed. The Navy Constitution was designed in 1942 as a joint project between Lockheed, Pan Am and the US Navy. It was intended to be the replacement for the Navy's aging fleet of flying boats to fulfill the role of large capacity, long range transport aircraft for the Navy. Pan Am took part in the project because the Constitution's double-decker design and large passenger capacity had potential for use as an airliner. Initially, the Constitution was designated the Model 89. The designation was then changed to the R-60, and finally in 1950, it became the R-6V Constitution. The Constitution had a useful load of 17,500 pounds of cargo, and a cruising altitude of 25,000 feet. It was powered by four 3,000 horsepower Pratt &amp; Whitney R4260 radial engines, each driving a single propeller. The Constitution faced engine cooling problems, however, and in order to lower the engine temperature, the cowl flaps had to be left open during flight. This created enough drag to seriously reduce the aircraft's range. Another unique feature of the Constitution was its landing gear. The main gear was made up of two wheels, each mounted on a set of two struts, and attached to either side of the fuselage. At landing, a set of electric motors brought the wheels up to speed before touchdown. However, this feature seriously impaired the pilot's ability to feel when the aircraft had touched down on the runway. Because of its size, most of the Constitution's major components could be reached from within and were able to be repaired while in flight if necessary. To accommodate this, the entire aircraft was fully pressurized, including a set of tunnels that led out through the interior of the aircraft's broad wings for access to all four engines. Development of the R6V began and continued through World War II with Navy funding. But by the end of the war, Pan Am was no longer interested in the massive aircraft. The Navy, however, ordered two prototypes. But although these two planes went into service with the Navy, the constitution design ultimately proved underpowered and too large for practical use at the time. The Navy operated both of the two Constitution prototypes as transport aircraft on the Hawaii-California route from the late 1940s up until the early 1950s. However, by 1949, the Navy could no longer afford to operate the massive aircraft and they were offered to the airlines on a five-year lease. Alas for the Constitution, nobody accepted the offer, and the Navy retired both aircraft in 1953. The Saunders Roe Princess was the last of the giant flying boats. With the exception of Howard Hughes' Spruce Goose, the Princess was the largest flying In 1946, work began on three prototypes of this gentle giant. The Princess was nicknamed the Double Bubble and designated the SR-45. She was intended to fly the non-stop transatlantic route from Southampton to New York, carrying 105 lucky travellers on her luxury outfitted twin deck. The Princess was powered by ten Bristol Proteus 600 turboprop engines that were housed in six engine nacelles mounted in the wings. The two outboard engines powered single propellers, while the four inboard engines were the Bristol coupled Proteus. With a wingspan of 220 feet, nearly 150 feet from nose to tail, and a height of more than weighed in at a massive 190,000 pounds. In August of 1952, the first of the three prototypes, G-ALUN, was taken out for taxiing trials. However, after only a short taxi at speed, the graceful behemoth took to the air. her pilot, Geoffrey Tyson simply stated, she wanted to fly, so I let her. This prototype princess was the only one of the three that would ever fly, although she made 46 test flights overall, and made a memorable appearance at Farnborough Air Show in 1952. But the era of the graceful flying boat was drawing to an end. Since the end of World War II, conventional aircraft no longer lacked the long runways they required, and they could operate the same routes, in many cases faster and more cost effectively, than flying boats. But it was not to be. And in 1967, all three prototypes of the elegant Saunders Roe Princess were dismantled, and the era of the flying boat came to a close. The Germans had, during the war, had done a considerable amount of work on wingtip towing. What they were doing was, their theory was that you could add anything out on a wingtip of an airplane and the increased in aspect ratio of the wing gave you sufficient lift to more than counterbalance the increased drag. So in effect you got free fuel tanks, which is one of the things they used it for. Somewhere along the line, it was one of the Germans that came over, Ben Holman was his name, it was one of the paperclip crowd that came over after the war, and he was convinced that what you really ought to do was tow a couple of fighters on the wingtip of a B-36. Since we couldn't come up with a fighter with sufficient range as an escort fighter, the idea was that the bomber would carry his own escort, and when he came under attack, he'd release and go fly. And the idea was to carry three of them, one on each wingtip and one in the fuselage. The one in the fuselage, the pilot could get out and relax and do whatever he needed to do and eat. And then they'd take turns rotating around. That was a pretty far out idea, but that was the idea. And they went on to a program, I believe it was called Tom-Tom, in which they put two F-84s on the wingtip of the B-29. The effort to keep the airplane out there flying, the workload was tremendous. So what they had to do was get an autopilot that would keep the airplane stable. Buddy Anderson and Johnny Davis were flying the two F-84s on a B-29. They were flying out of the Republic plant on Long Island. And there was to be the first test of the autopilot. Bud Anderson hooked up, could not get his autopilot to engage, so he disengaged from the B-29. John Davis hooked up on the other wing, engaged his autopilot. Immediately, it was off. Hard over, nose up. Pitched the airplane, rolled into it. Got up elevator, hooked up like that, rolled over, came down on the wingtip of the B-29, knocked half the wingtip of the B-29 off. That airplane went in with its full crew. John Davis flew around for a while, but couldn't get out, and he was killed on landing. but couldn't get out and he was killed on landing. to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. the. you