Hey guys, this is Toby Mathis with I am really lucky today to have Brent who does works with And I love picking the brains of folks So first off, welcome, Brent. Always a pleasure to see you, Toby, Hey, we could do both. Yeah, it's even better that way. I see you've got some sort of, like, bar I don't know why we missed out on on The sad part is, none of them are open. I just like to pop. I'm not. I have Like, So every now and then, sort of towards the end of the week, I look to my left maybe We. It's 5:00. Someone has to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I just kind of keep my hard points out one of the bottles and says, Yeah. Why is it still full? Really? Yeah. The why. And I'm not good on the hard alcohol. But anyway, let's talk about trust things that. Well, I guess we can't say Maybe we should call this trust Stress in moderation. Yeah. Yeah. Use with caution. Yeah. I want to talk about all the bad stuff, but I've been seeing these promoters you don't have to pay a tax You don't have to pay tax if you have your investments in a trust And I remember going through this, where we had the pure trust Can we put some of that stuff to rest I mean, first off, Second off, what do you feel about it? I've been But the more detailed answer is that, first of all, this is a this as you say, and it sort of gets recirculated gets funded into trust and therefore Well, okay, you got to take two steps back First of all, you're talking about money that you earned Mega, And we don't allow you to do that We have this very nice doctrine that was created by the courts that basically says if you earn income, You can't just shift it on So even if let's just assume but just assuming hypothetically that The assignment of income doctrine Okay, then just because that's not enough, we have these rules that are called that would prevent someone and in many cases for their family, over these trusts. And then not paying tax on it. So what happens is you put the money in the trust, and you think, Oh, great, Even if you got over this assignment Well, the answer is not so fast that you still own and therefore you start on the income So it's a little okay. And I know like conceptually that idea is Maybe you really did and you really don't have the money. But we just pretend for tax purposes We, we like it because. You. Could ignore the trust and you could So an asset protection trust, it's actually kind of a handy dandy But that's not These guys are going right to the Hey, all the tax by reallocating it to Corpus Yeah. My opinion, But I'm curious as to your opinion and you probably have to deal with it I think I think the chances are that the grantor trust rules, So I think that's the first thing. People don't realize how sticky They exist to prevent you from not paying So it's very difficult to avoid you know, you really maintain Let's just assume So you again, you're earning income You've got this assignment of income You have to pay tax on the income, was you gift it in, say, And it was truly a complex trust, Well, we have rules for that, too. And those rules say that and the trusts beneficiaries must pay tax Okay. So even if you park this thing in a state taxes, that only solves the state the slight like half truth that you get Right. But yeah. They do the names and the dings They're saying, hey, we can avoid That, right. Which yeah, maybe you can, And then it also turns out that these complex trusts, if they retain the income, on the earnings, at the lowest possible levels. And so the tax hit is not it not only you're not saving tax, And and just put it in perspective. Is it like, hey, I made 15 grand, I'm Yes. Am basically. That really? Yeah, I tried it. I just like let's just be straight up. It is ridic. I forget what exactly it's like around. It's 14,000 something. I can't remember the exact weird inflation Can you hear it? 37%? Yes. Yes. So that's not a great result. You know, Let's put your bet. I've had two clients that were seven get pitched this so that they would never have to pay tax And and I'm like, you're going to get killed in taxes. Yes. Keep going. I, I think. That one's a really curious one. Right. Because. All right. Again, let's just assume they they put the shares of the S corp Okay? There are only certain types of trust So either you're no longer an escort you're paying two levels of tax, c So that could be one option. The other option is that you are a trust But it turns out that and so you're paying tax no matter what. Like you get it coming and going And again, this assignment of income Also, I guess we should probably note to avoid paying tax that you owe as a mechanism to make it look like Even setting aside courts can freely ignore Yep. So there's also that there's the tools in the tool say the IRS who's arguing to Now, there are people that there is a provision in the code like dividends, extraordinary dividends, Is there a scenario yeah, this was shares, for example, but it's still taxed normally back into the into the body. The trust. Is there a situation like that and it just gets added to the Yeah, but that and the answer is, is you're really talking about two different, They're somewhat related in the trust But when you're talking about corpus, a trust accounting income issue that comes into the trust for for state And so the general rule is that a dividend It may be that income is payable out but you can and under under trustee agreements You can allocate those things which means it may not be payable Well, that does not change the tax Just sort of like internal accounting So it doesn't save you on taxes. Yep. So sometimes people get confused or distributable net income the trust is sending it That doesn't mean It just means trust doesn't in its tax to the recipient. True, No, I had. Another one I know I'm but there was a really nice people and they were doing they do very, They do lots of investments trust mechanism, a business trust, the business trust with the beneficiary And they they were loaning the money I just said, it's a sham. Look at it and go first. But that's not how the rules are. But first blush, that you've had to deal with and then puts Yeah, I can't say that although I would be very curious about how that the transactions that I've seen the the way that it is and this is really where it starts let's say you have these three mechanisms basically everything happens on day one And the promoter wants you So you sign everything on day one. Well, right off the bat, you know, or I and certainly a smart lawyer at the we can ignore the fact that you have all We'll just we'll just treat it the way that it really should We'll just treat it the way that And you know what? You want to set up all these buckets Mazel tov. But that doesn't change the So you're stuck with the tax treatment for this complicated structure. So you're kind of stuck with both, Yeah, I actually emailed the promoter, could you please just like my opinion And also it was a private but it was taxes. A private foundation Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But they were, That's what these guys do. I'm like, just send it to the IRS, maybe there'll be a recovery for you. But yeah, I think it's interesting. I think you probably see the same thing are not what I would consider That's the first thing. And the second thing is that they they oftentimes like to hang their hat They're like wallets. And we have all these documents, And so therefore, this is this is valid. And people need to understand, I think, the hard truth, all the dumb things you want, but that doesn't mean you get the tax result So there's a huge gulf between doing and then using it for a tax advantage to give you the tax advantage. You have to unwind the dumb transaction. They'll just say And let's say, hey, it, we're going to treat it It was interesting I mean, I just So I'm just thinking of the ones And there was another gentleman It's always somebody that they say Yeah, he's older. And the lawyer had a Supreme Court when they said to do it. And I'm like, And then I look at it and I'm like, Yeah. You know, or it's something that is like from 1800s or something goofy you know, a long time ago, this is not relevant This has nothing to do with anything, Pretty words, but it's. Just well, and that's you know, for anybody listening, what they're hanging their hat on You know, the code lets you do this. It's Well, just understand that, there was a major change in And the IRS might and Congress their minds about certain transactions. They might not have anticipated So the chances okay, let's just assume The chances of it being black And there's a lot of gray area So whenever somebody comes at me I'm of course, I'm I'm just sort of like, If it's too good to be true, Yeah, but he's going to pay tax on this. When I see this, it's always to somebody affluent, and there are lots of ways No tax is usually not one of them. Maybe if you're a real estate you're operating in an exempt environment you don't you know, you're taking But for the most part is, no, you're not All right. But there are scenarios Now, maybe we could touch And because you're working Sounds like a lot of international when Well, trusts are you mentioned one Trust can be excellent vehicles In some states, So you can create a so-called self Whether those apply in every single jurisdiction But even if you don't and you want to do it for your kids, you've put two nickels together and you've earned some money in your day from ever going to future ex in-laws You can put them in trusts and get great so you can sort of protect that family And all you have to do is create the trust If you don't create stress, If there are tremendous estate tax and generation skipping transfer in certain types of trusts, particularly with grantor trusts which basically means not you, the grantor who created the trust You're but everything in the trust So just imagine what that looks like boil it down to like It looks like a Roth IRA. It's like you paid the tax on the Roth IRA tax free will somewhat like that. These grantor, irrevocable grantor trust You're and then the money and the trust gets to grow tax free, because nobody pays estate You pay taxes tax free. It's growing tax free for the estate tax. But you're the grand tour. It's You're still paying tax It's just to you, So tackling I think you've been doing this You know, I remember $600,000 estate tax exemption when I started. I still remember And now we're at 12 million Yeah. So if somebody is over wow, or is there And it could be lower because we could be Forget where it's going to go But it it's definitely not going to be 12 It's going to fall way down there It'll be half of that. So the base number right now is ten, 10 million, adjusted for inflation. The base number in 2026, on January one, adjusted for inflation. So just round numbers, let's say it's So really we're in a really weird somebody who's over the 12 that's easy. They need to do they need do something like they have to plan for it Like you're pointing out So you got a $30 million estate the 12 years somebody writes a $400,000 That's painful. There is this weird middle ground between the 12 and, say, the six But if they do the dumb thing and survive And so for those people, that they have an issue The way that I like to plan for space is to try to do things that will, in essence, cap So we're not going to get over 12 million. And there are a lot of techniques that they own and and actually transfer and convert them into something Okay. So let me give you an example so So let's say I set up irrevocable So I paid all the tax for the trust. And you're the beneficiary because And so I have a bunch of Apple stock. I don't know what the value of Apple stock is going to be tomorrow, So I would prefer to take a promissory equal to the Apple stock today that's not going to change in value. So what I do is I sell my Apple stock to my new irrevocable grantor trust that the trust gives me a promissory note And now if the Apple stock above the face value of the note, all of that appreciation is in the trust It's out of my hands, and no matter when I You're not going to pay estate tax on it. And so these sorts of little valuations, transactions become really important, in between these threshold numbers. If you get above the thresholds, not only do those things but really like Now, you just mentioned a installment Yeah. Are they paying it Is it something where you can say, because we don't really want to Well, we're selling it. But because I own the stock I own everything in the Grantor Trust, So there's no capital gain. So I'm not going to pay any capital gains. It's a true sale. There is substance to it. It needs to be a real sale. There needs to be a real note That's really paid to me. Ultimately, at some point, We don't have to pay it off Do you put like a marker on it? Like, Hey, if you ever sell the stock, And in the meantime, This is the thing What's the mechanism or do you have to We we usually require at least interest And very frequently only note Say it's 10 to 15 years. You might go we might go on the term of the note because it gives But the idea is that once we put the stock into the trust, if the if the trust sells the stock. generated a capital gain We also usually have a provision I can ask and get permission agrees to it, to be reimbursed So I'm not so I'm not going to be burdened that I didn't want to pay could. There's still a guarantor trust. So I'm responsible for the income. If there's dividends paid out of Apple, for example, they pay a small dividend, To me, as the the say just being nice to me Although I wouldn't stop you. You wouldn't stop me. Okay, But you're still paying the tax on that, You're not. You're not right. And if if I need to pay interest, is it something where I can continue to in case there needs to be cash Or how does that work? Do I have to sell start to pay Hopefully not. The idea is actually what you would do I would seed the trust Maybe it's maybe it's cash, I like to see so that collectively the return plus the thing that I'm going to sell into is far more than the interest On the note, I don't want the trust to be uneconomical. And of course, what I'm trying to do I don't want the money coming back to me. I want as much in the trust as possible. So if a really good example would be that's rented out of income on it, I might gift because the income off the real estate is going to support the promissory But either gift it or sell it or I know So you're gifting so that the income stream covers Yeah. Or it could be a mix, and then I sell the balance the assets collectively between what I sell into the trust are are able to generate plenty of income because again, I don't want it, and I want the note Real estate's just great has a relatively consistent It can be used to do future financing. So the financial terms are You might be able to to suck some equity and now you're just paying back the bank, probably a longer period of time those sorts of transactions The future was something like real estate. That's really smart. And then it sounds like they might need to consider this. And would it be business Just maybe they're getting a portion of it you know, it keeps going up in value so that they don't have an estate Is that primarily what we're doing here? That's what we're doing. And it would be all of the above. Yeah, yeah. Obviously The first question I almost always ask along the lines Like What do you need to live on? Because we also are not asking clients them in a way that substantially affects I'm not saying super lavish lifestyles, to live comfortably And so we're that can generate streams of income from these trusts that will in reality I want them to also maintain that everything goes south They have enough money But I want to that is unreasonable because it just So we're always trying to match up with the reality of the client's Now shifting gears slightly is, as you mentioned, So you have wealthy international clients. Are we talking just U.S. citizens or do you have folks Yes and yes. So if you're a U.S. citizen, estate tax, these huge and in 2026, indexed for inflation, But what about the international folks? Because they don't They do not. So if you are not a citizen and resident means you don't live here you're not a so-called Then your estate tax exemption is $60,000, and that number has existed And they're not changing it. So and it's not indexed for inflation. So one is coming to the rescue. These people don't vote. Okay, so nobody's helping them. So I'm somebody let's say that real estate. Am I going to be paying 40% on that minus the 60,000 exemption? Unfortunately, yes. What if I'm married to a U.S. citizen, Joyce? Do I get any reprieve So in that case, citizen, spouse, you get the benefit of what's called And that's a dollar for dollar deduction citizen spouse. So you would pay no estate tax And in essence the in essence, Now the property is in the hands We can tax Americans. So we'll expect that Of course, now that it's not as useful, Do you see this scenario play itself out? Is this something that you have folks come in and they're like, I have five I'm not a U.S. citizen. You know, I just own a bunch of real estate here. And is that something you see? I do. And when they have done the thing talking to me, that's a real challenge to back out of that transaction You usually usually what it requires is swallowing a somewhat bitter in order to avoid later paying estate tax. And the reason for that is that the Well, there's really two ways. The first way is for a non citizen, non resident of the U.S., It is doesn't apply to U.S. citizens. If you set up a foreign company and that if you own stock real estate, when you die, and the foreign company So no estate tax? Yep. But in order to back into that structure, real estate, You're going to have to sell it In essence. Yes. It doesn't mean it's a it doesn't mean It's just we pretend that it's a sale. When you contributed And then how would this change citizen spouse? Yeah, citizen spouse but you end up in there's because you're guessing on who's If it's the foreigner, you're fine. If it's the U.S. person, The other way that we usually handle this problem, gains buy life insurance if they're insurable insurance on the life of a noncitizen very important that that's what you are people. But the proceeds on life insurance on that type of person So we buy the life insurance in the off chance that foreign person dies Very very interesting If they are a resident maybe they have a ten year Does it does it change It totally flips everything on its head. And so, of course, of course, it's like, You can't vote. But we're going to tax But that means you get the benefit So you. Get it. Okay. So, all right. So if you have that green card, If you become a nonresident. So your green cards for three years And oh, heck. You could be. You could be. And well, in the meantime, we pretend you're a citizen, so we tax you And so we kind of get it from some angle. And then there are some very specific rules So if you hold a green card for more than eight of the last 15 years under some circumstances, all of your assets, and then you have to on your way out. That's the I think that some Canadian friends is that they were dealing with that But I'm going to go back. And then they were like, Yeah, yeah. Because the tax is so heinous. Yeah, it goes both ways. Canada has its own exit tax. We call ours the expatriation tax. But the they functionally are the same where and you come down here resident, Yeah. Sorry. I was going So Canadians who accidentally trip up on the Canadian exit Yet because the CIA is not a pleasant the other fun don't they treat it for Canadians? They treat it as though they sold the asset to right? They do, yeah. If you're a Canadian resident trust because that's what you're adviser told you to do. It's a deemed So you pay tax in Canada. The U.S. doesn't care, Canada is to blame Canada. Exactly. So I guess the moral of this story all day about this stuff because I find it It is very complicated. Yes, unfortunately it is. Then if you have a green card, if you're if you own substantial assets resident non U.S. citizen, you need to talk to somebody And if you're a U.S., you reside here and you have assets over $5 million, you need to talk to somebody who knows because it sounds like I want to ask you one last question. This is a softball, because I know you But there's also these revocable trust most notably the living trust that And I just want to get your take on people trust versus do nothing at all. I'm not in favor of do nothing at all. So to be perfectly clear, my number one preference is to do a living trust And that's for almost every single of how much money they have in the bank Okay. So I wish my lawyer said. That the thing that really keeps me up at night is the nightmare guardianship and conservatorship files because somebody didn't what could have been extremely simple, commas, simple, revocable trust that would have resolved this, when they become incapacitated, who's if you die and you leave money to a minor If if it runs through a revocable trust, And there's so much headache that can be resolved that I see almost no circumstances The biggest caveat to it, where their home jurisdiction has a rule like Canada Setting that aside, it's And does Canada always tax? So if you do a living trust citizen and all your assets are here in If you're a U.S. citizen and not a resident of Canada, But if you're a resident of Canada in most instances they'll treat it There are some very small carve outs who are doing basically revocable trust. They call them bear trusts in Canada. And those trusts escape these rules. But the general rule is. You have to go over a certain age, right? I believe it's over a certain age. It's 65 and older, if I remember. Right? Yeah, I think. That's. I remember seeing that it's But I want to hit on the living trust people will go to somebody And I'm always like, That's comparing a like a Happy Meal I could just buy the burger. The Happy Meal comes with other stuff. And the other stuff is sometimes And so you just talk about doing That's almost then I've never seen a living trust for financial and in health. And I've never seen those attached Sometimes somebody will do both, if you're going through the trouble, plan or you're not. And that's the part that just bugs the heck out of me because I see that over should I have a meal And they said, Oh, the soda pops perfectly filling, So when somebody says Schedule you always look at it going, And they, like you mentioned, Like how like how arduous is the process of getting to become somebody's conservator or taking over their finances Is it is it pretty heinous? Well, in my fine state, you somebody who cares enough about you, The court appoints and talk to all of the interested parties The court appoints a lawyer to you so at least two lawyers are almost The court appoints a medical professional All of this gets submitted to the court. You have a public hearing on your inability to manage your finances, Then somebody gets appointed. Then every year they have to account everything that has come in and they do that for your lifetime or until you're cured, So if you have. Somebody with dementia, that was in a car accident can't make decisions on their behalf, Right. You're if you're going to you're going to have to go through this process Yeah, dementia, definitely. Car accidents, definitely dementia. One that's easier to plan for if somebody gets in an accident settlement, that's that can be hard And you may be forced but they're just very burdensome And when people hear time consuming, Yes, that time is being charged But a will is easy and probate I mean, I wish I had a Nicole Oh, you don't need that. You just like losing your mind. All right? I think we think alike on that one. Yeah, we definitely do. While the other thing is, they say, well, that takes care of it It's just that And so if the bank doesn't agree, And that's happened so frequently. And sometimes people don't believe me. But that is the case. You can it's happened the last ten years Banks Hey powers of attorney yep. Do the trust. Do the trust. And I and I've dealt with the same thing Yeah. But they're covering their backside. They've, they've obviously been disastrous And you know, ultimately I don't think They're just trying to do and it's not easy, I'm going to make it. Anything else you want to hit on? I really enjoyed our conversation, so I'm just curious around I guess the only thing we didn't mention the conversation we had at the beginning If it's a trust that's in a foreign jurisdiction, You go 50 stories high 2 to 2. Oh, my gosh. We didn't even get into I don't know go to me and say, I'm going to do this It's and this trust has been in business And then they come back a couple of years My trustee won't respond, On more than three occasions I can think of just a few of them Have you dealt with that too? And like, Is that one of the reasons Well, one reason is just because the way they actually work. You know, that's like this. It's supposedly some sort of tax move. It's it's not just surprised that's The surprise ending is it's You don't save taxes. You usually complicate And then, yeah, I mean, one of the most egregious cases who who had a trust And there were two individuals and they basically just completely And it took years to run them down. It took years to get rid of them. And we we literally still have one or two Irish Mutual funds that were frozen during the Great Recession, but they were frozen during the Great that was, yeah, whatever, 2910 And I again, there's enough of the trustee responding. Where is this trust? Isle of Man or Cook or one of the, I'm like, well, Yeah. It's gonna be expensive litigation. If they're still there, chances I'm not a big fan going offshore that's interesting. Again, on a lot of these, just from what I see we see a ton where somebody comes in go to this island, go to that island, And I'm like, Do you have people over there? But it would be really, really bad It's can be tough. You have no infrastructure. Are there any situations where you do It it tends to be non-Americans. So foreign clients who are, say, investing in the U.S., That's a non-U.S. trust, trust for those people. But sometimes it's better to set up because their home jurisdiction are more friendly to each other than that And so we'll we'll use the foreign That's really it. I mean, the frankly, the U.S. tax laws and the U.S. trust laws are so good and so robust and it's such very frequently the trusts are here, You're my experience. To us, it's hard to be. Yes. We tax worldwide income. So yeah. Like you're not going to you're and somehow still have access to it But why would you, let it appreciate It's going to step up when you died. And there's just so many other benefits tax code. It's like, why? Why go mess around overseas Right? Yeah. Well, I know that's Well, what about, you know, And I say you're not a company. Yeah. So just you're playing What are you thinking? And they've been hit with $1,000,000,000 Yeah. It's the intellectual property I think I forget what it was like There's You just don't. Just don't. You're an individual. Don't. It's not worth it. Yeah. You don't need your team of lawyers and try to argue that they're trying to assess on you Yeah. Sometimes it's easier just to keep it Did it? It ran. How does somebody get a hold of you If they Google Brent Nelson lawyer, but I work it out. I'm a partner, at a firm, R I M O N I live in Tucson, of of about 180 lawyers or so. And then I'm on social media @wealthandlaw, all spelled out. And I have a podcast, and that's on, on all the normal podcast So anybody looking for me, The Googles know I exist. I'll put you in the show notes so the easy to find in the world I again, we have some crossover. I have no problem saying reach out. If you're somebody who's over that somebody knows what they're doing. This is what this is and you want somebody But I really appreciate you coming on It's I was going to call this trust scams And every time I don't have to pay tax, I'm always like, Oh, no. Not a gap. Not again. Exactly. Well, I let me give the compliment So if anything, I said, make Great. So that's fine. The world is abundant. Yeah, I never, never worry here, Likewise.