Today, you're going to improve your English fluency fast with this We're going to read a news article on a viral topic to help you improve Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Our headline why the viral Dubai Have you seen this chocolate bar? Have you tried this chocolate bar? This is my first this time seeing the chocolate Now let's take a look about at this. We have why is this headline a question? What do you think? Is this a question or is this a statement? This is a statement and we know that So in a statement form, you What's the subject here? The subject is all of this which could be summarized as the So we have WH subject verb the question form we would just So we have WH verb subject. Why is the chocolate bar all over TikTok? I'm asking you as a question. I don't know, do you? Why is the chocolate bar all over TikTok? And you can reply and say the chocolate bar is And then you can use Y to form a statement to commonly see this statement with AWH, For example, here's why. Here is why the chocolate bar is all over TikTok. This is why. Or let's review 3 reasons why, which a presentation, a meeting, or Don't worry about taking these notes because You can find the link in the description. Now let's learn why it's all over TikTok. I first saw it it being the viral chocolate bar. I first saw it on my feed So one important point, when you are learning make sure you always pay Something is on your feed in the You would also use the preposition I first saw it on YouTube, my platform of choice, or I first saw it on TikTok because that's Now on my feed, this isn't specific to a platform. You could add on my YouTube feed on my TikTok feed the preposition choices in the beginning For example, a season in the middle But if you use and we change the preposition to the end of the class, at the end of the movie, at So just remember in the beginning, middle, But in the beginning of this lesson because we have We could say we're still in the beginning. So why don't you comment, Let's go, And then this is true. So notice I commented. That's a completed pass action And then you can say I commented, let's go Let's continue A thick so A thick brick like so saying is brick like So a brick what you make houses out of. For example, a thick brick like with is the phrasal verb to mean on the inside. So the inside contains and the majority of So pistachio green tells you what color of dark green, Forest Green, for example. So this is pistachio green filled with I could say this lesson is Hopefully you agree as well. So if you do again, put let's go in the comments. This lesson is filled with So to be filled It is filled with important vocabulary. So in this case, the chocolate bar is that both looked gooey and sounded Do you know what gooey means? Gooey is used most frequently food and it's soft, semi liquid and sticky. So as just looking at this, it's to touch this after you would want to wash So you could say cookies are best when they're Generally, gooey is a positive Some people may not like things that are Now you could potentially use it to other things For example, glue is gooey, it leaves sticky but it is most commonly used with Now let's take a look at whenever so took a bite, you could also say had a bite. So it's just simply to bite Whenever means anytime. Anytime. This is commonly used in the past. Simple to mean anytime in the past when You can also use it in the present. Simple. Whenever I use glue. So anytime I use glue. So it's a repeated habitual event. The present simple. Whenever I use glue, I get goo on my clothes. So do you know what goo is? Well gooey is the adjective that describes Goo is the noun. It refers to it as a something. So it's a sticky substance. So if I have something sticky on my so you can use that after eating gooey Or when using glue or other sticky substances. Whenever I use glue. So a repeated event, in this case, the present. Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where movies, YouTube and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description for to my website and click on Finally Fluent Academy. Now let's continue with our lesson. Once I eventually saw. So notice here once I saw now eventually saw but after a period of time of not seeing it. So it sounds like this chocolate bar was viral, perhaps on this person's feed for a So once I eventually saw, after a delay, Do you know what this word means? Notice the pronunciation dubbed. So this Ed is a very soft dubbed dubbed. So you have to go from AB If something is dubbed something, it likely by a mass amount to So people call this the viral Dubai chocolate. That's what people refer to it as. It has been dubbed. This is commonly used with For example, the athlete was dubbed a Let's continue the fixed bar. So this is the name of the The fixed bar has undoubtedly, undoubtedly. Let's review this word. Let's review this example. I'm sorry I doubted you. I'm sorry, I doubted, doubted. So notice this B is not pronounced, and Doubted, doubted, doubted. I'm sorry I doubted you. If you doubt someone, it means that confidence in one's actions or, or what they say. So if a friend says I will pick you up but then you order a taxi just in case. So your friend comes and sees there's a taxi I'm sorry, I didn't have confidence that So in this pronunciation here, you just Lee undoubtedly. So you also have to add the UN. Undoubtedly, undoubtedly, the fixed If it sparked a movement, it A movement was created because of the fixed bar. So it is what caused or created the movement. Now undoubtedly, as an adverb is used So whatever the statement is without So for example, you could say learning That's just a simple statement. Learning English will let me remove this. So this is grammatically correct. Learning English will help you in your career. Now, if I want to emphasize that this is I can add the word undoubtedly before Learning English will undoubtedly If you agree with this statement and if then put that's right, that's So the fixed bar has So it just emphasizes that the fixed bar, the which has of course led to price gouging on resale sites like eBay where some bars So do you know what price gouging is? Price gouging ow ow gouging is when But this is generally illegal if for example in an emergency or crisis And this is often done when a So price gouging, charging you way more Price risk gouging on resale sites going for means this is what the price is. So these bars are going for $50.00, the price Someone in South Africa reportedly Now, reportedly, this word is used to suggest that we don't know this is 100% true, So what other people have told us, So this word adds some doubt to Let's continue. The owner says seeing the dupes is The word dupe is the short which is a copy or replica of something and The duplicate chocolate bars. So there's more than one, so that's Duplicate, duplicate, Just like if you see someone selling a purse with the Louis Vuitton logo on the That's not the actual Louis Vuitton It's a replica, a duplicate. So it sounds like the people it's not even the real chocolate bar. It's a dupe, a duplicate. Adding that her team is dedicated to keeping Fix. Remember, this is the name of the chocolate bar Now what do you notice here dedicated to keeping? That's because the verb dedicated to to This is a gerund expression. So the verb that comes next is in is not part of the verb is part of This is very commonly used to talk about their their goals or their purpose. For example, this channel is dedicated So make sure you subscribe or this channel So again, subscribe or I could be be dedicated to and then your verb So here this channel it it But if I say I, then it's I am as a contraction. I'm I'm dedicated to creating So again, subscribe so you are notified OK, continues on saying ensure that their The lore created around the bar. The lore for pronunciation. Notice it's the same as or Lore. So this lore represents stories, Is generally used for traditional stories, ancient stories that are I don't commonly see it I generally see it for traditional The lore stories created around the bar So when you drool. This is generally used for for when someone is looking at something that looks so Dogs drool all the time. Animals drool. We use this more for humans. Not that actual saliva is but just to say that something looks so delicious. Oh, I was drooling when I saw those Now of course there isn't It's more metaphor Oracle. I traveled over an hour to taste it for myself, and the people in the room with Whispering about it hours before So to make a debut, in this case, the To make a debut is when something time or known for the first time and notice Daniel Radcliffe made his So this means that Daniel Radcliffe made his first performance, made Put it in the comments and So what I'll do now is I'll read it from start to Why the viral Dubai chocolate I first saw it on my feed A thick brick like chocolate bar filled looked gooey and sounded crunchy Once I eventually saw what has been dubbed The Finks bar has undoubtedly sparked a gouging on resale sites like eBay, where Someone in South Africa reportedly The owner says seeing the dupes is adding that her team is dedicated to keeping ensuring that their chocolate is The lore created around the bar has I traveled over an hour to taste it for me were whispering about it hours Do you want me to make more If you do them, put let's go, let's And of course, make sure you like this subscribe to your Notified Every And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And you can keep improving your