He created a body that was to become the gold He would use it achieve one goal after another, three careers. Yet, from the very start Arnold Schwarzenegger He was dismissed, ridiculed and parodied mercilessly. What people failed to realize was that Arnold's brain. With it he orchestrated career moves that In this Biographics video, we uncover the only Arnold Schwarzenegger. "For me life is continuously being hungry. The meaning of life is not simply to exist, achieve, to conquer." Early Life Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger was born in the July 30th 1947. His father, Gustav was the local police chief. Arnold and his older brother, Meinhard, grew was used to being obeyed. Arnold's early years were very regimented. He'd be up at six, and then off to get milk Then he would have to do a set of physical for him - earning his breakfast by doing In the afternoon, after he'd finished his and Meinhard practice soccer no matter how If they messed up on a play, they got yelled Gustav himself had been a champion ice curler to excel physically. With his father's pushing, Arnold first age of ten. He played soccer passionately for almost five When he was fifteen, Arnold's soccer coach a week would be a good way for his players to the local gym. That day would change Arnold's life. He was mesmerized by the size of the bodybuilders weights. Arnold would later record his feelings in of a Bodybuilder . . . There it was before me - my life, the answer It clicked. It was something I suddenly just seemed to a suspended bridge and finally stepped off Arnold embraced weight lifting. He soon discovered that he had an amazing Within two years he had already overtaken where he worked out religiously. He also trained harder than anyone else. One Sunday, discovering that the gym was closed, could get in his workout. Arnold's father was less than impressed Bodybuilding was very much a fringe sport of it being look down upon and considered When it was discovered that Arnold had pictures his bedroom wall, a psychiatrist was called The psychiatrist assured his parents that of. Oh, how wrong he was. By the age of seventeen Arnold had already his vehicle to worldwide fame. He had spent many Saturday afternoons down turned actors such as Steve Reeves and, his on screen playing Hercules and other mythic They had used bodybuilding to create careers And that was exactly what he would do - only them... Army Life Arnold entered the Austrian army in 1965 to By now he'd built his body to 200 pounds He was assigned as a driver in a tank unit. Shortly after he was inducted, Arnold received of the Mr. Europe contest in Stuttgart, Germany. But he was in the middle of basic training... No soldier was allowed to leave the base for But Arnold knew that his destiny was tied go AWOL in order to compete. He crawled over the wall, taking only the to buy a third class ticket to Germany. When he finally arrived at the competition, and tanning oil. Still his muscles were undeniable and that At first the army was not impressed. He was put in jail for seven days with only no food. But within a few days the news of his victory the title added prestige to the army. When he returned to the ranks, he was held telling the troops . . . "You have to fight for your fatherland. You have to take courage. Look at what Schwarzenegger did just to win Following his stint in the army, Arnold took in Munich, Germany. This presented him with the ideal opportunity This was the next step in his master plan He trained twice a day, working like a man By the time he arrived in Stuttgart for the get a look at this "monster from Munich" All of the attention infused Arnold with a like the winner. Arnold's win that day was so emphatic that Mr. Universe contest. He arrived in London, knowing almost no English, people began mobbing him. They had all been waiting for him - the Still, he didn't win that day. The American had a more complete, defined place. Arnold returned to Munich and threw himself He shut everything out of his mind and concentrated Universe. Sure enough, on September 23rd, 1967 Arnold the youngest Mr. Universe in history. A year later an even more massive Arnold returned title. Following that victory, Arnold received the great signpost to his future. On the other end of the line was Joe Weider, Builder Magazine. Weider invited Arnold to compete in the IFBB in California and work for him. America Arnold arrived in America in September, 1968, no English. He settled into a small apartment in Venice in exchange for the rights to use his image Arnold's plan was to stay in the USA for and then use them to beat the Americans at Arnold began training at a small gym at Venice He rubbed shoulders with all the top American as the leader of the pack... In 1970, Arnold won the coveted triple crown Mr. World, and the Mr. Olympia titles. He was now the undisputed king of bodybuilding. Arnold went on to win 6 consecutive Mr. Olympia Now he was ready to implement phase two of Acting In 1970, Joe Weider got a call from a film to play Hercules in a low budget film. Weider immediately thought of Arnold, telling actor back in Europe. They signed him up immediately. The result was Hercules Goes to New York. It was to be Arnold's first, and most forgettable His credit reads 'Arnold Strong' and his Still, he got paid $10,000 which he invested His next paycheck took some time coming... Arnold found Hollywood less receptive than Several agents told him that he had everything was difficult to pronounce, a strange accent will never make it into films.' For Arnold, this was the very motivation that Back in Austria he had been told that he could that is exactly what he had become. Now he would reinvent himself through the had learnt in the gym in order to become the He would make the agents eat their words... Arnold began acting lessons in 1974. He won a supporting role in the Bob Raffelson He played a bodybuilder named Joe Santo, so Still he was determined to make an impression. Make an impression he did. He won the Golden Globe for best newcomer. Then, in 1977 the documentary Pumping Iron The film chronicled Arnold's victory in future Incredible Hulk. As his charming, confident self, Arnold's Pumping Iron led to small roles in The Villain Businessman By now, Arnold was already a successful businessman, selling biography, and bodybuilding training This meant that he could afford to wait for He filled his time with public appearances One such function was the Robert F. Kennedy There he caught the eye of a beautiful dark She was the daughter of Sargent and Eunice Kennedy. Arnold and Maria fell in love at first sight. The Shrivers were great philanthropists and Special Olympics, which he has been passionately In 1979, Arnold began a career as a CBS sports He also graduated from the University of Wisconsin A year later, he stunned the bodybuilding competition in Australia. There he captured his 7th title, cementing of all time. Arnold's comeback, however, wasn't without He went to Australia in the role of a TV reporter, at the last minute. He was also good friends with head judge, The general consensus was that the Arnold His victory was, for the first time, greeted Still, his 7th Mr. Olympia title was on the Breakthrough The great shape that Arnold had got into for breakthrough role as Conan the Barbarian. After spending a year in training working broadswords, he headed of to Yugoslavia and Conan the Barbarian raked in more than $100 Together with its sequel, Conan the Destroyer, into movie goes consciousnesses. Following his success with the Conan movies, time director and screenwriter James Cameron. This would prove to be his most iconic role. In The Terminator, Arnold plays a cyborg sent who will save humankind from destruction. The role, it was made for Arnold. His accent and his body - the very things him - were perfect to play the part of the The Terminator was a worldwide smash, firmly star. By 1985, he had already been named International On April 26th, 1986 Arnold, a staunch Republican, royalty, were married. The honeymoon was barely over before Arnold Predator. This movie again won him the title of action After a string of action films - Commando, forward thinking Arnold was ready for a new Few were willing to take a gamble on Arnold But one who was was director Ivan Reitman, That vehicle was called Twins... The irresistible chemistry of Schwarzenegger Two years later, Arnold again teamed with success. A large part of the success of these films Arnold always got the joke, which was very Over and above that, Arnold was a gifted comedian, know. One person who noticed Arnold's abilities with children - was President George Bush. Bush appointed Arnold as the Chairman of the This could have been a largely symbolic role, visiting every state to promote the fitness The movie winning streak continued for Arnold This sequel cost $102 million, making it the It returned $519.8 million, with Arnie pocketing Arnold's next big movie outing was Last which seemed like a sure thing. But the film was a box office bomb, and a Hollywood was quick to tear Arnie down, claiming But Schwarzenegger had other ideas. He bounced back from defeat with the same days. He reteamed with James Cameron for the action-back The movie was a smash and Arnold was back Governorship In the mid-1990's Arnold began focusing him so much. He became an organizer and sponsor of the He was also very involved in the After School In 2003, during an appearance on the Jay Leno of California. This was following the recall of Governor crisis. Arnold ran an energetic campaign, despite A number of women claimed that, over the years, to have had affairs with him. Still, Arnold was able to rise above this and wit. On one occasion, someone in a crowd threw He immediately whipped the jacket off, threw thrower, 'Hey, I ordered bacon with those He easily won the Governorship and immediately Bringing his own unique style to the position opposition as 'girlie men.' Arnold's first term was marked by such early and stopping illegals from getting driver's But then powerful state unions began to oppose sponsored in a special election in 2005 were Despite this, Arnold was re-elected Governor On his second term he put a lot of effort In 2006 he signed the Global Warming Solutions put a cap on greenhouse gas emissions. Arnold's second term as Governor came to A few months later the LA Times ran a cover child fourteen years previously with the family's As a direct result of this revelation Arnold She and their four children moved out of the Post-Governorship Arnold's post Governorship movie career as The Expendables 2 &amp; 3, Escape Plan, Sabotage which he battles his younger self. Arnold has continued to maintain strong ties Following his retirement from the sport in Then, in 1989, he and long time partner Jim Classic, which is now the second biggest Pro Arnold credits all of his success to the self from his bodybuilding career. In recent times, Arnold has been involved Trump, in the wake of Arnie's replacing Trump blamed Arnold for the show's dismal some timely advice on how to run the country. Arnold, a staunch Republican, refused to vote the first time he had not supported the Republican Although it's one battle that we'd all for the top job as he wasn't born in the citizen in 1983. Arnold still lives the fitness lifestyle. Having just celebrated his 70th birthday,