The Kawanishi H6K &quot;Mavis&quot; was a very large, the Second World War. It gave invaluable service exceptional performance, becoming one of the During the 1920's and early a large number of western floatplanes and specialized in creating them and developed a British manufacturer known for In 1933, Kawanishi had amassed enough experience the Navy Experimental 8-Shi Large Flying ultimately ended in failure, the Navy recognized an exclusive specification. Named the 9-Shi, Following a visit to the Short Brothers company, a Kikuhara started working on the new project with two years later was something quite unique. was a huge aircraft, being one of the largest wing with a span of 40 m (131.23 ft) mounted above It had a crew of nine; a pilot, a co-pilot, a bombardier, and three dedicated gunners. At first, Hikari 2, nine-cylinder air-cooled radial engines. and during service trials, the H6K was found corrected by reengining it with the Mitsubishi engine that could develop 1,000 hp (746 kW). entered service in January 1938 and Type 97 Flying Boat Model 1, or H6K1. units received the Model 2 or H6K2 designation changes. In addition, two were converted to be The Japanese flying boat saw action for where it was found to be the owner of an navigation qualities, and good stability in both such as a slow cruising speed of around 130 mph quite vulnerable. Outside the battlefield, it production time. Some of these would become It wasn't long until the was around to try and counteract some of these variant and was built from 1939 to 1942. Furthermore, the defensive armament was also in the beam position bearing each a 7.7 mm (0.303 could be found in an open bow position and in an addition brought by this variant was the single 20 Starting in August 1941, there was hp (798 kW) Kinsei 46 replacing the Kinsei 43. 66 H6K4s in frontline units of the Imperial numbers, they played a very important The &quot;Mavis&quot;, as it was codenamed by the allies, in excess of 6,000 kilometers (3,728 mi). unlikely to be reached, let's take a look at it. to Anchorage, Alaska; from Lisbon, Portugal to fittingly, from Tokyo, Japan to Cairns, Australia. fantastic endurance, as the Mavis could spend reconnaissance missions weren't infrequent, and two beds, a bathroom, and fresh water reserves. recon missions in the vast oceanic expanses of to those. In the first year of the conflict, it could take up to 1,000 kg (2,205 lb) in bombs carried externally in the wing-supporting struts. carry a great variety of equipment, making it acting as a guide for ill-equipped aircraft. In to relay messages from smaller recon airplanes It also saw action in a variety of other And so, it quickly became clear that there a consequence of its lengthy production time. forever, and it ended rather quickly when the A clear example was when, on February 20, the east intending on striking the recently a Mavis discovered the American task force and Japanese crew, despite being 35 miles (56.3 km) CXAM radar. This allowed the American carrier to famous Lieutenant Commander John &quot;Jimmy&quot; Thach, words are a perfect description of what ensued. and as I came into it, I looked down, and huge wing with a red disk. It was my first and it nearly scared me to death." boat and it seems his aim was spot on. engulfed in flames and it hit The resulting flames could be seen from Half an hour later, another Mavis went down in a very short period of time, Japan lost two out to be catastrophic for the Japanese, with bombers shot down by Lexington's fighters, but Remaining on the Mavis topic, it's easy to almost all Japanese aircraft of the time, the H6K Its defensive armament was also quite weak, with very little. Only the 20 mm cannon in the pilot flying an Wildcat fighter. In addition, as Air Intelligence Center report, the Americans the 3 and 9 o'clock bearings, above and below. Mitsubishi Kinsei 51 or 53 engines rated at 1,300 and toward the end of 1942, the Mavis was giving way to the much tougher H8K Emily. wasn't the end of the line. In fact, it saw action transport. Beyond the H6K3, it had two other 36 were built. These had all armament removed, ahead of the cockpit and in the far back, a galley or 4 beds, and an aft cabin with 10 seats more, Beyond the Navy, these transport variants also All in all, 215 Mavis of all variants were The Mavis, much like many other Japanese by sacrificing resilience. As such, it was a truly but due to its vulnerabilities, a Why such an assessment if other Japanese aircraft, exactly the same flaw? Well, the Zero was small, meant losing one pilot. The Mavis was very large, at a time, something Japan couldn't afford. and the Mavis' successor, the H8K Emily, making it much more difficult to shoot down. the best flying boats of the war. the Mavis was a unique and beautiful aircraft. Let me know in the comments below!