- Guys, a little while ago, we posted a big seven part series on the channel called all about how Dumbledore is on Harry's life, forcing him into all that eventually help him It was a lot of fun to write. The only issue was it took So you had to go find the next video, re-watch the intro, there's a bunch of ads and stuff in there, got a little bit long. So we decided that we were going to just stitch 'em all together, make it one big convenient video. We took all the ads out, all the outros, it should be nice, clean, start to finish. Hope you enjoy Dumbledore's Big Plan. (intense music) Hey brother. (eerie music) Of course we know that tirelessly against the dark arts and gathering as much information Trying desperately to prevent or else just destroy him completely. And of all wizards, you'd he, Dumbledore is the man for the job. He is widely accepted as the He has already defeated the other most notorious wizard and is also the only wizard or so they say. And yet after Voldemort attacks and goes into hiding, Dumbledore does nothing to hunt him down and finish him off for good, even though he is certain He has 13 years to act on this and maybe finish Voldemort off for good, but does nothing, why? Well we actually know why and it's because of the The prophecy was made by Sybill Trelawney to Albus Dumbledore and is after Harry in the first place. It says, &quot;The one with the dark lord approaches. The dark lord will mark him as his equal and one must kill the other while the other survives.&quot; And while that obviously the curious thing is what to Dumbledore, because until that point, until he heard the prophecy, he probably considered it to be the one to finish off Voldemort. But what this prophesy is that it won't be him who does it. It means it has to be Harry who does it. Harry is the only one who can do it or at least he knows it's Harry after Voldemort goes after him, because before that, I guess it could have also been Neville. But with that in mind, knowing that Dumbledore's ultimate goal is to defeat Voldemort and that only Harry can finish off Voldemort, Dumbledore finds himself how is he going to handle Harry? Because since he's the only does that not then also for preparing Harry? Like what a weird position to be in. What should he do? Should he meddle and send Harry down the path he thinks is best suited for defeating Voldemort? Or would meddling send Harry off the path fate has already set for him? Because here's the thing, Harry's victory is not He's just also the only at all of winning. So if you're Dumbledore, what do? Well obviously we know he does meddle but the question is how much? And the answer is the because the answer is a lot, like more than you can possibly imagine. Every mystery Harry thinks he's solving is being presented to him by Dumbledore. Every significant moment of Harry's life is being carefully by Dumbledore as part of Let's do this. (intense music) Hey brother - Guys, this theory is so vast, we are actually going to So today we're just going to be looking at all the things Dumbledore in the &quot;Philosopher's Stone&quot;. And this one in particular is big because so much of in the Wizarding world is &quot;Philosopher Stone&quot; is full and there is a lot to unpack. But ultimately, I think for Harry in his first year. First, is to control who Harry decides to surround himself with and to just ensure that Harry Second, is to assess Harry's And third is to test his For Dumbledore, &quot;The Philosopher's determining what kind and how best to guide him in the future. So first step, control and make sure he's not in Slytherin, and this starts right away when and inform him that he's a wizard. Those first two days he spends They seriously set up a for the rest of his time But one of the really is when Haggard tells Harry which house at Hogwarts is the bad one. - [Ron] There's not a witch who wasn't in Slytherin. - People get this point confused a lot because Ron says it in the movie, but it is really Haggard Which even as Haggard is saying it, it doesn't make a ton of he believes Sirius to and Sirius was in Griffindor because he borrowed his bike. So you called out Hagrid except that you're not to tell Harry this. And let me just say if with being in Slytherin. (booming noise and J makes hissing noise) But from Dumbledore's point of view, that is the house Voldemort was in and I'm sure he doesn't want with all of the death eater's kids the moment he gets the Hogwarts. I mean we do know from the Malfoy family that some of the death Harry might be a new rallying so you just really wanna Honestly though, I think to end up in Gryffindor, I don't think he would've Hufflepuff or Ravenclaw either, just as long as he wasn't in Slytherin. And take note of how Dumbledore does this because he uses this trick a lot. He doesn't guide Harry he just guides him away from a bad choice. And Hagrid is not the only piece of assurance Dumbledore puts in place to sway Harry away from Slytherin. Let me ask you this, have that Mrs. Weasley didn't the Hogwarts Express was leaving &quot;'Now what's the platform number?' said the boy's mother. 'Nine and three quarters.' also redheaded who was holding her hand.&quot; Right, so in case you need a refresher, Molly Weasley has seven children, multiple of which have already spent several years at Hogwarts. If not, their entire Not to mention, it is also and her husband attended. And if my math is right and yes, we did pay the math budget for this one, this is her 17th time for the train to leave. And yes, in case you were wondering, it has always been the same There's actually an about just this. Point is there is just no way she does not know the This theory would suggest that out loud specifically so that before any other Wizarding family, which yes, does mean Dumbledore would have arranged this with her ahead of time. And as we explore this you'll see that in Molly were integral to his plans in terms of leaking information to Harry or else just watching over him. And if you're wondering how either of them would've gotten involved with Dumbledore when neither of them was in Well, bear in mind that Gideon and Fabian who were both in the first Order of the Phoenix and who both died at the But either way, the Weasleys for Dumbledore to surround Harry with. For one, they are all pure bloods, but place no value on of themselves at all. And it would mean the first peers Harry would come into contact with possibly the two most Fred and George, and a boy all of whom are from a family, Not that any of the boys would It's just a good example that surrounding Harry with good people will yield good results. It's one of those classic that are usually good. But indeed Dumbledore gets what he wants because by the time Harry all he cares about is just - Not Slytherin, not Slytherin. - Which brings us to the second big thing Dumbledore is trying to accomplish in the &quot;Philosopher Stone&quot; which is judging Harry's character, and fortunately, he has the the Mirror of Erised. As I'm sure you are aware, the mirror shows whoever whatever is their heart's deepest desire, and when Harry stands in front of it, he sees his family, an image Dumbledore is extremely In &quot;Half Blood Prince&quot;, he tells Harry, &quot;Harry, have you any idea how few wizards could have seen what And make no mistake, Dumbledore absolutely that mirror specifically so he could see what Harry would see. Consider this, Harry finds the day he gets the invisibility cloak, which was sent to him by Dumbledore, and we know that Dumbledore in the room, invisible himself like not even looking Just like, I guess I'll - Back again, Harry? - How do you know this How do you know it's again? I think he waits until Christmas because there will be less students at the school wandering around who might then discover the mirror. Because the mirror cannot there in the open, findable all year, because it is very much the kind of thing that if people discovered it everyone would want to look in it. And if you think well, that he would give him the cloak, assuming he would immediately don it, and roam around the castle I don't think so. I mean, Dumbledore knew James and this was exactly the but here's the other dead giveaway is why is the mirror up in the school at all? When it's supposed to be like In case you have forgotten, for Dumbledore in July So why is it taking him so long to put the stone in the mirror and the mirror in the basement? Wherever this is, second They never explain where they go. What I understand is that's of the castle, there's just a hole. (Ben laughing) Like a deep one. The reason is because of to find the mirror so but also because of which is to test Harry's I'm sure we are not the first to wonder why the obstacles are so easily defeatable by a first year, when they're supposed to Well, this theory suggests are the obstacles, specifically because Dumbledore can break through them. And this isn't even just us guessing, Harry himself seems to be aware of this. He tells Ron and Hermione, I think he sort of wanted I think he knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try and he just taught us enough to help. I don't think it was an how the mirror worked. It's almost like he to face Voldemort if I could.&quot; But if it's true, he set it up specifically to test Harry, you might be thinking, wow, that is really reckless of Dumbledore. And yeah, you would be right about that, but I don't think it's because remember Dumbledore and knows that either Harry or Voldemort must kill Harry or Voldemort. And I think he's reasonably certain that Voldemort's not gonna be able to kill Harry unless he has a body back, and the means by which he's in this case, is by getting the stone, which Dumbledore also knows is 100% safe. It's 100% safe because of the enchantments Dumbledore himself puts on the mirror, which if you ask me, of the obstacles kind of pointless, and by kind of pointless, I mean, they do not need to be there. Dumbledore could have set up and left him alone with it all year and he still wouldn't get the stone. - But how do I get it? - Why is he even bothering And the answer is to find the skills to break through the obstacles, two, the intuition to figure out the stone is down there at all, and, three, the courage to face Voldemort. In fact, I dare say the were chosen specifically because of Harry, Ron, Yes, I know that the other but this theory would suggest that Dumbledore suggested But that is why it to finally put the mirror down there, because he spends the observing not just what Harry is good at, but also his friends. But come on, catching that's all Harry. The giant chest set, that's all Ron. The potions logic puzzle, Even taking down the troll, (punching sound) they already did that, and if you're thinking, well, sure, he might have thought Harry was safe, but doesn't that endanger Actually, no it doesn't because of the way the where only one person was ever going to be able to go through and I think he must have it would be Harry. But it's not just that the for the golden trio's skill sets. It's that Dumbledore is throughout the year for Starting on that first day with Hagrid, when he takes him with him to Gringotts to retrieve the stone. That right there, kind of crazy. I mean, the stone is magical object that about to try to steal and he just lets Harry see Now to be fair, he doesn't or even what it is, but he's very easily able once the daily prophet reveals that someone tried to Then there's Dumbledore's &quot;And finally, I must the third floor corridor is out of bounds to to die a very painful death.&quot; We've discovered a giant hole. We are also considering at the bottom of the hole but I have to talk to It needs to be soft and but also easily defeated, No, but this particular because Harry then asks He muttered to Percy. 'Must be.' said Percy 'It's odd because he why we're not allowed to go somewhere.'&quot; Yes, it is odd. I mean, if you don't want lock the door. (door handle clangs) - It's locked. - That's it, we're done for. - Oh move over. - And don't just lock it, but lock it in a way that is - Alohomora. (magic whooshing and lock clinking) - And then also don't even Like who needs to be warned they already can't get through? Even Umbridge is able to against the likes of Alohomora and that's just so students this is guarding the Philosopher And those aren't the I'll bring up the which is simply a means and around the castle, and don't even get me started on all the times Hagrid let's - I shouldn't have said that. Shouldn't have said that. I shouldn't have told you that. - Not to mention the complete or action taken after a series of other events that Like how about in Harry's when his broom starts Hagrid tells us only powerful dark magic can interfere with a broom, and we later find out from Quirrell that he knew Severus Snape and we know Snape is loyal to Dumbledore and in &quot;Deathly Hallows&quot; that Dumbledore actually told Snape to keep an eye on Quirrell. So obviously, Dumbledore knew Quirrell was trying to kill Harry, How about the troll being let in? Quirrell later supplies a second troll for the protection of the stone. He's also the one to tell the school that the troll has been let in. - Troll in the dungeon. Troll in the dungeon. Thought you ought to know. - Like, I'm sorry, but if you were a Dumbledore all that information while it's happening, it is super obvious who let the troll in. Fire Quirrell. I'm not kidding, I don't He so easily could and yet, and uninvestigated even Why? Because again, he wants Just listen to this line from Dumbledore talking to Harry after &quot;'Oh, you know about Nicholas.' said Dumbledore sounding quite delighted. 'You did do the thing Well, Nicholas and I and agreed it's all for the best.'&quot; Yeah, I think he sounds quite delighted because Harry went above and beyond what even Dumbledore and the thing he did properly was the task Dumbledore secretly set out for him. Even Flamel being okay with is kind of odd because the fact is Dumbledore You put that stone back in the mirror, it is completely safe. My bet is that Flamel decided well before the events of this book that he was ready to die to use the stone as bait, But there you go, guys, that is part one of Dumbledore's Big Plan. (eerie music) Welcome to part two of &quot;Chamber of Secrets&quot; for Dumbledore's big plan, because unlike Harry's first year where Dumbledore pretty much he's having to react to a in &quot;The Chamber of Secrets&quot;. Because as interfering as Dumbledore is and as much danger as he in the first book, I do not think he is willing to subject the rest of the school to just so Harry can have a crack For one, Dumbledore was actually around the last time where somebody died, Moaning Myrtle. So if he wanted it open, he would actively be risking the life of everybody at the school. And one thing I know about Dumbledore, Harry Potter aside, is to put the rest of the students at risk. Like if we fast forward Dumbledore allows Umbridge over the school until the moment she tries to physically harm one of the students. In that case, it is Marietta Edgecombe, Cho Chang's friend who rats This scene happens in Dumbledore's office where he is sitting idly until Umbridge puts her hands on Marietta. At which point he is on his He is definitely not okay with unless they're Harry, but hey, what are Phoenix tears even for? Am I right? And while Dumbledore is about what's happening in the school, this is the first time is using a horcrux, but he doesn't actually even realize that until the very end of the book. And finally, he seems to is a Basilisk because if he did, certainly he could have at against it, like using probably sending the kids home, that's probably what he should have done. That to me, feels like when instant death might be lurking around literally any corner. But again, he didn't so petrification, pff, whatever. we have mandrakes for that. The real person to be suspicious How did she know they were going to need mandrakes that year? Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm. Coincidence, sounds like it. They probably have him That said though, once we know that Dumbledore knows even if he doesn't know how. In the hospital wing, after Harry is hit with the rogue bludger, he over hears Dumbledore saying, &quot;'The question is not his eyes on Colin. 'The question is how?'&quot; And if you'll recall from the last video, I think Dumbledore towards Harry investigating the problem as he did in &quot;Philosopher Stone.&quot; Again, the line is, &quot;I don't he let me find out how the mirror worked. It's almost like he to face Voldemort if I could.&quot; So again, I don't think the opening of the Chamber of Secrets was part of Dumbledore's big plan at all or even something he could have predicted. But once it was open, I think in the course of he was happy to let Harry and even nudge him along if he could. So similar to &quot;Philosopher's Stone,&quot; I think Dumbledore had three main goals for Harry to accomplish in year two. One of which really only comes into play after the chamber was open, that one was kind of a happy accident. Well, except for all the petrifications. Maybe a blessing in disguise? No, that doesn't feel right. Anyway, here are his goals for Harry. First is to keep his ego in check. Second is to teach him which goes on to be his signature spell and third, and this is being a silver lining, ooh, yes, silver lining that's it, is to test Harry's loyalty So let's start with keeping because this is the most on the list and it pretty the hiring of Gilderoy Lockhart. - Pretty obvious. - Man, we need shirts - Pretty obvious. - How do we not have that? - [Ben] We do need shirts. - Can someone... - Pretty. - Does someone wanna design that? - Obvious. - Tweet me. For Dumbledore, keeping is of the utmost importance, because Dumbledore knows that arrogance can lead down He tells Harry in &quot;Deathly Hallows&quot;, &quot;'It's just a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are those who have never sought it. Those who like you have and take up the mantle because they must and find to their own surprise In that moment, Dumbledore at the same age. Were instead of selflessly after the death of their mother, he is plotting world domination and lusting after Grindelwald or wait, sorry, flip that, lusting after the Deathly You know what, it works either way. Which of course ends in the unfortunate and untimely death of his sister. It was like a really, really But in his wisdom as an old, now dead man, he realizes that he arrived at that state having of the most brilliant students ever, collecting trophies, being in touch with the of the day and being pretty much adored since the moment he And as such, it is immensely that Harry never have a And heading into his second year, Dumbledore would have a lot For one, Harry had a really He saved the Philosopher's Stone, he defeated Voldemort, again, he was the youngest and helped Griffindor win the house cup for the first time in at least six years. Plus he's the son of James Potter, who was a notoriously And as far as Dumbledore is concerned, this was supposed to be a So it might have been pretty into a similar role as his Especially when he starts and crashing into a tree which I think we could Bew, bew, bew, bew, bew, bew. Dumbledore's solution though, a walking billboard of if he lets his ego inflate too much. - Let me introduce you to your new defense against the dark arts teacher, me. - [J] Because honestly, why - Hardly any of you remember that my favorite color is lilac. - Dumbledore even says after Lockhart obliterates his own memory, &quot;'Dear me.' said Dumbledore his long silver mustache quivering, 'Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy!'&quot; Meaning he has known the entire time exactly what Lockhart was doing and that he is completely inept. - Peskipiksi Pesternomi. (pixies squeaking and flying around) - But if he knows that from the outset, then isn't it kind of irresponsible to have him teach all of your Yes, it is very irresponsible. But of course you have to remember, Dumbledore's main goal and teaching Harry this Like I said, he's not okay but he is certainly okay with them sitting through ineptitude. And besides, he doesn't let in defense against the which brings me to point number two, teaching him Expelliarmus. Tom Riddle me this, in what world would Severus to Gilderoy Lockhart in a dueling club? You are correct, it would, nope, not, nope, definitely would not, don't not, never happen. I don't know how many negatives he wouldn't do it unless that is, it was actually a part to ensure that Harry got against the dark arts lesson that year. The dueling club meets all of one time and never happens again, but Harry still manages to walk One, proper dueling etiquette, sort of, and two, how to use the disarming spell. - Expelliarmus. (spell whooshing) (Gilderoy yells) - And that is why Dumbledore I mean, he's basically the best duelist in the entire series and so who better to Plus Expelliarmus ties in perfectly with Dumbledore's first It is simultaneously it ends fights early, and prevents the need And sure enough, it becomes and is even the one he uses to eventually finish Voldemort off. But I think what is really important is that it stops the fight early and stops you from doing because Dumbledore is constantly of Harry's whole soul compared to that of Voldemort's tattered one. &quot;'Lord Voldemort's soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear close contact Like a tongue on frozen It is essential that So it is also very important how to win fights against without having to ever kill them, which is what we know rips your soul. And we see this practiced He doesn't kill Sirius who he doesn't kill Peter Pettigrew, who later spares Harry's own life. He does foolishly use and give away the fact in the Battle of Seven Potters, but in fairness, he does save Stan's life. I mean, come on Harry, you had a golden opportunity and as he's falling down to earth, just yell back at him, &quot;What you fell over for?&quot; Which brings us to the final ensuring that Harry is truly Remember from the last video, that in deciding to medal to face Voldemort, Dumbledore that he knows how best to defeat Voldemort and that it is in Harry's at any cost, no matter what And I think it's fair to of &quot;Chamber of Secrets&quot;, Harry is not truly Certainly he has been told Dumbledore is the greatest wizard alive and is probably grateful and definitely respects him, but as of yet, I don't to be specifically loyal to a Dumbledore, and we see a great when he fails to tell Dumbledore about hearing the voices in the walls. Dumbledore asks, &quot;'Is there Anything at all?' Harry thought of the disembodied and remembered what Ron said, 'Hearing voices, no one else even in the Wizarding world.' 'No' said Harry, 'there And the fact that this exchange mirrors the conversation Dumbledore has with Tom Riddle 50 years earlier must have Dumbledore kind - Is there something you wish to tell me? - No sir, nothing. - Like here's a young boy he is very important to but has also proven that he's very brave and bold and capable. Harry's lack of trust in could be a very worrisome indicator that he has not yet decided But Harry's loyalty to because again, Dumbledore is the only one who knows the prophecy and is therefore uniquely down the correct path And I think Dumbledore is in the future where other and sway Harry according like Rufus Scrimgeour when as a spokesperson for the Ministry, which again, underlies as a more fame hungry Harry of the Minister of Magic. &quot;'Well, it's clear to me that he has done a very good job on you,' and hard behind his wire-rim glasses. 'Dumbledore's man through and 'Yeah, I am,' said Harry. 'Glad The moment Dumbledore to test Harry's loyalty to him to the school to escort Dumbledore away. He says, &quot;'You'll find have left this school when You will also find that at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.' For a second, Harry was flickered towards the corner This is what I meant earlier is happy to allow Harry the Chamber of Secrets. First of all, he obviously knows that Harry even though they're underneath and second, even though he seems to have a pretty on the case and offers if he solves the entire mystery and then needs some assistance. And in the end, we know that Harry does become very loyal and pledge his allegiance to Dumbledore because he's able to summon Fawkes in the Chamber of Secrets. The question though is how does And I think the answer is Hagrid. - You wouldn't be talking - Dumbledore, of course, knows for sure that Voldemort and that Hagrid was framed, and yet despite pretty compelling Dumbledore decides to trust as gamekeeper a move that to an outsider. Like what do you think Myrtle's parents thought of that decision? But once Harry learns that it must look to Harry like from Dumbledore towards Hagrid. - Hagrid never opened He was innocent. - And that in turn is what (eerie music) Welcome to part three of &quot;The Prisoner of Azkaban.&quot; In &quot;Prisoner&quot; Dumbledore, once again to find himself in Whatever his original plans now have to be adjusted based on the escape of Sirius Black. However, unlike in &quot;Chamber,&quot; before the beginning of the school year. So we can assume that most of are taking into account the and might be trying to kill Harry, and that Harry might to his parents or at least what Dumbledore thinks Sirius did to his parents, and with that in mind, I to review what Dumbledore and what he believes at because it affects the actions he takes. Firstly much like the rest Dumbledore definitely He also believes that he was that he did turn them in to Voldemort, and did kill Peter Pettigrew He also has no idea that were Animagus. He tells Harry, &quot;'Last about how they became Animagi,' 'An extraordinary achievement, not least keeping it quiet from me.'&quot; Without any further ado, let's talk about Dumbledore's Big Plan for &quot;the Prisoner of Azkaban&quot; for Harry. First and foremost is to protect Harry and just keep him safe from Sirius. Second is to observe Harry's greatest fear and to teach him how to defeat dementors. Which, spoilers, this ends for him because his greatest fear ends up being the dementors, and lastly is the value of someone's soul and their innocence. Okay, so let's start Remember Dumbledore is of the prophecy and knows to kill Voldemort. So Sirius coming in and is very bad for the fate &quot;But J,&quot; I hear you saying, &quot;doesn't that only Voldemort can kill Harry? That either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live Yes, it does say that, and but stick with me. This does not mean that to all non Voldemort related deaths That he is somehow indestructible, except at the hands of he actually is indestructible against, since Voldemort took his - Astonishing, what a few eh Harry? - But Voldemort isn't even of the prophecy where while the other survives. He is just determined to kill Harry because the first sentence to vanquish the dark lord approaches. But because he acts on those words, he does mark Harry as the only and in a weird twist of fate, his own determination to be the one to kill Harry often saves Harry from otherwise certain death. Like when the death at the Ministry of Magic or when Nagini is squeezing at Godric's Hollow, or Bellatrix and the at Malfoy Manor. I mean the list goes on, but Harry escapes a lot of times because Voldemort won't - [Voldemort] Do nothing! - The point is Voldemort and so no matter what he is So no matter what Harry Which he can't do, if he's which is why Dumbledore sees From Dumbledore's point of view, Sirius was one of the to come through Hogwarts. He was a huge supporter up his best friends, James and Lilly. He is the only person and is a reckless killer So step one for Dumbledore to take full advantage at Number Four Privet Drive. Plain and simple, when Harry is here, he is basically untouchable But take notice, &quot;Prisoner&quot; is unique in that it is the only book, where Harry is not invited to the Weasley's during the summer. We've talked before about are Dumbledore's deputies, and I think this lack of an In fact, I dare say, it's take the trip to Egypt, so they would have a reasonable excuse to not invite Harry over. Which would honestly make because I don't know about you, but it is always bothered me this big lottery draw at the Ministry and then immediately squander Like (exasperated noise), especially when you the reason Ron and Jenny and all stay at Hogwarts is are visiting Bill in Egypt. Like they were just there, and in fact it says that to not go with them, meaning So I'm just calling total to be able to go visit but Dumbledore's plan to keep Harry safe and away from Sirius Black when Harry accidentally inflates his aunt, who flies right out the and runs directly into Sirius Black. Fortunately for Dumbledore though, Harry accidentally summons the night bus, which immediately delivers or perhaps not so fortunately, I mean, can you imagine if Harry had and Sirius had revealed himself to him? (in a gravely voice) It I, Sirius Black, your godfather. I was framed from murder, but the man who did it is with a family called the Weasleys. Oh, you know them? Your best friend? That is convenient.&quot; Seriously, Harry, you fell over for? You could have ended this and stop Voldemort from coming back. For that matter, if Sirius hadn't seen Peter's he never would've escaped for Azkaban and Peter never would've So like whose idea was Oh. Anyway, Harry gets where it seems like the plus the Ministry itself, Not that Dumbledore doesn't have eyes on the ground, as always. Let me ask you this, did you ever think it was kept giving Harry so many free Sundays during his lengthy stay Because that is not how you run a successful ice cream business. It might seem weird except to keep an eye on Harry, because a guest whose ancestor happened to be a headmaster at Hogwarts, hmm? One Florean Fortescue, meaning his ancestor, Dexter Fortescue, has a portrait in the headmaster's office, and I would just bet money in the ice cream shop, and the Dumbledore was A trick we know he uses later Side note, does anyone else think it's odd that there were no dementors Like Sirius had escaped, they know he is looking for Harry, they know Harry's in Diagon Alley, where the dementors? In any case though, the Weasleys do eventually to escort Harry to the pulls Harry aside to deliver of instruction. He tells him specifically He tells him this, even though Fudge specifically &quot;'No, honestly - it's okay. This way you haven't and I know what's going on.'&quot; Fudge might have told him but I think Dumbledore did. And if you're wondering why, if they both work for Dumbledore, Molly and Arthur were arguing Well, it won't be the last with Dumbledore about what's Then of course, once Harry gets to school, Dumbledore tries to protect from going into Hogsmeade. - [McGonagall] No permission form signed, no visiting the village. - Because if you ask me the of just a formality and I think he would just let Harry I mean, in the past two years, he's defeated a basilisk and Voldemort, but hey, walking around a town, whoa, can't do it without Ah, but what about the Marauder's Map, you might be wondering? Is it possible that to give it to him? Well, we did consider I mean, for one, if a he could just use it to track Sirius. And two next year, when Barty Crouch Jr. mentions he has no idea what he's talking about. &quot;'The map that had almost 'Map?' said Dumbledore quickly. 'What map is this?' 'Potter's map of Hogwarts. Point is even though most to protect Harry are Which brings us to his second goal of learning Harry's greatest fear, teaching him how to fight dementors, and the hiring of Remus John Lupin. There are a myriad of was the perfect hire for Harry this year, but let's start with Learning what Harry sees with a boggart is sort of what Harry saw in the Mirror of Erised in &quot;Philosopher's Stone,&quot; but both pieces of information about Harry's character to Dumbledore. - That suggests that what you This is very wise. - [J] Although I will say on that part of the plan because he eventually stops unless that was also part of his plan so we could have a more isolated Which is exactly what happens gets to go to Hogsmeade and Harry can't, which is something else But the big giveaway that behind the boggart lesson comes where you can see Dumbledore And come on, the boggart was found in a Like how random. The really great news is that Harry's boggart is a dementor, which ties in really well with his goal of teaching Harry how to fight dementors. Now I don't know about you, but I've always thought to convince Lupin to teach him this skill is like paper thin at best. &quot;'But if they come to I need to be able to fight them.'&quot; Yeah, Harry, because it as one of the students playing from attacking dark creatures, don't worry about the staff handling that. I mean to be fair, Harry is attacked in like every single year Quidditch, no one ever seems to do anything about it or look into it at all. Either way Harry's argument is we might lose Quidditch matches not I might die, and Lupin who is already &quot;Oh, that's true. We can't have you losing Yeah, no, I'm sorry. This has Dumbledore just Now Dumbledore wanting Harry might seem really specific, but it's not. I mean, for one, dementors and Dumbledore is certain that if, and when Voldemort returns, the dementors will join him immediately. In fact, he even tells Fudge &quot;'The first and most essential step is to remove Azkeban from the He states, &quot;'The rest in our beds, Cornelius, put Lord Voldemort's in the care of creatures who he asks them!'&quot; I mean, it is literally for how to fight Voldemort and since he believes one death eater has already broken out, he probably feels like the Which it is. But it is essential that because Harry losing his soul pretty much means Voldemort wins. And it actually wouldn't even because they wouldn't they just be taking his soul. And Lupin is not just the man but he's also a great candidate of someone's soul. Remember as of &quot;Chamber of Secrets,&quot; Dumbledore would've been suspecting that multiple horcruxes were in play and realized that Voldemort in ripping his soul into so many pieces, but that advantage could disappear if Harry doesn't learn the value of having a whole complete soul. In &quot;Chamber&quot; Dumbledore hired Lockhart to show Harry how someone who think they want can be a total buffoon. But in &quot;Prisoner,&quot; it's It's to show Harry how someone and an outcast by the can have a truly pure heart. Lupin, who is poor and unwanted and who believes that is the one to tell Harry and how it's the fate &quot;'He deserves it,' said, Harry suddenly. 'You think so?' said Lupin lightly. 'Do you really think 'Yes' said Harry defiantly. And yet by the end of the book, Harry has done a complete 180. By the end, he is unwilling to let Sirius and Lupin murder Peter, even though at that point, that Peter is the one who over to Voldemort, and that and living in Harry's dormitory I mean, think about that Harry was very quick to offer but by the end, he is not willing to let someone whose crimes are even worse, suffer a fate that is not as bad, and not even just because deserves it, but also because he doesn't to become murderers. Maintaining their souls as important to him, and Dumbledore's method of teaching Harry this lesson throughout through Hagrid. Of course, Harry had a crash course in protecting someone's when he cleared Hagrid's name But this year Dumbledore has every step of the way A trial that certainly a in like 15 minutes if he'd really wanted to. I mean, people are injured and Malfoy is injured by a so it's the kind of creature already have a lot of information about. Plus Hagrid has a whole who heard him tell Draco not which then they all also heard him do. Also also, actually actually Like it is such a dumb case, but it is a clear situation to be punished by murder, which then happens to be to learn the value of innocence. Later when Harry is feeling like he failed because he let Pettigrew &quot;'Didn't make any difference?' 'It's made all the difference You helped uncover the truth. You saved an innocent man So the real lesson is is more important than even if that means the an idea that really rings to Harry walking to the forest to die for his innocent friends, knowing he has not yet (eerie music) Guys, welcome to part four where today we're going to be discussing &quot;Goblet of Fire.&quot; We pick up after the of &quot;Prisoner of Azkaban,&quot; where Peter Pettigrew has escaped and set out to resurrect Voldemort, and once more Dumbledore as he heads towards his the one for like all the not the one in the graveyard , Dumbledore has no idea In fact, I dare say &quot;Goblet&quot; from the first three, in terms of stuff In the last two books, he has had to act in a where he is responding to Those being the Chamber and Sirius Black escaping from Azkaban. This time, however, he Like while it is clear, there he has no idea who or how it's happening. In fact, Dumbledore is so we honestly considered Voldemort's Big Plan, except in that case, you wouldn't really need 'cause that's just, that's, it's just, the whole book The whole thing is spelled out- Bertha Jorkins, Barty Crouch. (slurp noise) We re-light the Goblet of Fire. Harry's a champion? Did you put your name No way! The cup is a portkey. Harry's blood. Avada Kedavra! That's where it goes wrong. But that's not to say Dumbledore in this book because he totally does. This book actually contains that actually confirms Dumbledore's plan in the entire series. So today I would like to start at the end during the end of year is giving his speech to the entire school, because he says something that everything he's trying &quot;'I say to you all, once of Lord Voldemort's return, as we are united, as Lord Voldemort's gift and enmity is very great. We can fight it only by of friendship and trust. Differences of habit and if our aims are identical Friendship, unity, trust, these are the hallmarks of for Harry this year. Friendship, unity trust. If you need an acronym, try FUT, it's almost like fun and not at all tough. His first goal is to introduce Harry to the wider Wizarding world and start promoting the idea of unity. Second is to educate Harry And third, and this one is to start showing Harry what the world was like the last time Lord So let's start with and giving him a greater scope of what's at stake should Lord Voldemort return. This is super important for Harry's future because thus far, most of his exposure to the Wizarding world is just Hogwarts, and if we're being real, Where he has indeed blossomed into the brave Griffindor He's won the house cup he's received an award for and he even brought home the But the issue with Hogwarts that Hogwarts itself is Sure, Dumbledore didn't want him to end up in Slytherin house, but that doesn't mean Dumbledore of the students in Slytherin house. Well, I mean, let's be honest, there was probably a nicer at the end of the first year. I mean, it's not like the Slytherin He didn't have to embarrass him in front of the whole school, Sorry, that's actually not the point. The point is if Dumbledore had it his way, all four houses would So approaches this in two ways, right out of the grate, that'll make sense in like one sentence, the Weasleys arrive in Ha, there it is, fireplaces Although ironically, they out of the grate in this situation, but whatever I stand by that pun. Either way, they are there to pick up Harry This is a huge deal for who have somehow managed to the event, but also tickets for guests, and also they're the best in the top box, which for me The top box? What really? Okay, so we know the from Ludo Bagman, and the explanation is that to Arthur because Arthur got his brother out of a weird situation with a lawnmower that was acting unnaturally, and he just smoothed the whole thing over. here's 10 tickets to the top box. I'm sorry, but I just don't think so. I mean 10 tickets to the top box, like that's where the Malfoys sit, and the Malfoys are like I'm just assuming peacock No, let me tell you as their career in event marketing, the tickets the event gives you to give away are rarely good tickets. Certainly they are not front row tickets, unless there is also a huge that particular giveaway of other tickets. The idea that Ludo is giving in the entire stadium for a from is just, just laughable. Especially, and this is really that Ludo Bagman is in terrible Selling those tickets, rather would've been easily the I mean, when peacock man to the top box, they even joke, &quot;'Good lord, Arthur,' he said softly, 'What did you have to set Surely your house wouldn't Now, obviously he's in this situation, but I have to think he Just fun fact, according to a StubHub, the average cost of to the last Super Bowl was $4,750, with private boxes ranging I'm sorry, but I need to know, because this is important, What was the lawnmower doing? The point is Ludo is desperate to help Harry cheat for and yet he gives away It just doesn't sound right. Except we also know that he has for the past few months, arranging the Tri Wizard Tournament. And if you ask me Dumbledore is the one behind this generosity, because it is vital that Harry go to the Quidditch World Cup, and if he isn't able to then he doesn't really have That might sound like to ask of Ludo Bagman, but at this point, and we'll get into it a Dumbledore already believes to sacrifice himself. So it is vital that he of Voldemort's terror should And speaking of the Tri Wizard Tournament, that is part two of Dumbledore's to the wider Wizarding world. Because if things had gone to plan and Harry's name hadn't come then it would've been a great opportunity not just to meet foreign wizards, but also to unite all four houses within Hogwarts behind one champion. And speaking of the Tri Wizard Tournament, that is part two of Dumbledore's to the wider Wizarding world. It's honestly a really where everyone might have and meet some new interhouse friends and international wizards, except it all goes astray outta the Goblet of Fire and the school ends up Whoopsies! Speaking of whoops though, which is educating Harry So typically you wouldn't until year six, but now Dumbledore must feel that and that he really needs to get Harry in front of this information now. Now I've always kind of for the reason Barty Crouch Jr. was teaching the students because he's actually a death eater, and the idea of putting students under the Imperius curse of a laugh for him. But the more I think about at Dumbledore's plan as a whole, the more I think Dumbledore to teach the students about these curses. I mean, first of all, he is under the impression Alastor Moody teaching the students, and Barty Crouch Jr. even says, &quot;'Professor Dumbledore's of your nerves, he reckons you can cope, and I say the sooner you the better.'&quot; I don't know when in my but he does have a peg leg maybe should. And you might be thinking, and Dumbledore, wouldn't but here's the thing, there's like no way this is being taught, because the whole school is buzzing with what Moody's classes are like, because they're so intense. And it's not like he just it's like several, several lessons. Dumbledore definitely and does nothing to stop it, which could only mean Barty including the part about under the Imperius curse. Yes, it sounds terrible, but terrible is what Dumbledore And sure enough, this early training does pay off for Harry who later is actually able the Imperius curse when And besides that Barty that it takes real strength of character to throw off the curse, which Dumbledore definitely on what he saw in the mirror. So I feel certain Dumbledore just wanted him to have ahead of time. Plus if Voldemort does return, you can bet tons of to be under the Imperius curse, and being able to recognize because it encourages restraint. Think Stan Shunpike, for example, during the Battle of the Seven because he recognizes the Imperius curse. But that brings me to goal number three, showing Harry what the Wizarding world was like the last time Like I said earlier, this is not something he would've planned from the beginning, it's but since Dumbledore has the whole book, I think he feels like this information along to Harry. This happens when Harry and enters the Pensieve and witnesses the trials and Barty Crouch Jr. And I say accidentally with air quotes because it is so not an accident. &quot;'I was using the Pensieve for our meeting and put Undoubtedly, I did not fasten Naturally, it would've Yes, yes, naturally it to invade my private thoughts and observe sensitive of living people who you're Totally fine. Cool. Awesome. Great. No, but for real Harry, did you see what was going on there? I hope you were paying attention. I could like run into the bathroom and forget to fasten the like, I kind of have to go. Actually I better. (upbeat music) Woo, that's better. Certainly it doesn't seem that Harry saw this, the only thing that really is when he learns that about his parents, which is the only thing he But the reason I think to see this is not to just but to show Harry how Voldemort was able to spread such terrible mistrust through the Wizarding community. On Voldemort's side of things, Karkaroff reveals that the have loyalty to each other. They're willing to turn on themselves in the long run. I mean, that's not really that Bagman's trial represents and innocent person has been and suspicion, which again, kind of echoes back to that like Harry immediately recognizes this person's not a death eater. I mean, I don't know if he's a good guy, don't let him near your lawn mower, but- And then of course is the which shows us the breaking of families. Which shows how even people who of things are willing to shatter bonds and mistrust even their own children. You really can't and important these three memories are for Harry going forward. Think for example, how Harry if he can abandon his family to come join Harry and Hermione and Ron. Harry ain't having none of it, but that brings us to the gleam, possibly the most important as it relates to Dumbledore's plan. &quot;'For a fleeting instant, Harry thought he saw a gleam in Dumbledore's eyes. But next second, Harry was for when Dumbledore had behind the desk, he as Harry had ever seen him.'&quot; This triumphant gleam of upon hearing that Voldemort into himself, and the triumph is for the first time, Harry might actually have a with Voldemort. It's Dumbledore realizing of acting as a &quot;love crux,&quot; if you will, to Harry and &quot;'But if Voldemort used the killing curse and nobody died for me this 'I think you know,' said Dumbledore. 'Think back. Remember what he did in and his cruelty.' 'He took my blood,' said Harry.&quot; It means that as of Goblet of Fire, Dumbledore already knew and that he would have to die that Harry would have - [Snape] You've kept him at the proper moment. You've been raising him - And this, this is the that Harry understand what is at stake. That when the time comes, Harry will need to have to because it's not just about with Voldemort. It's not just about killing It's about saving the Harry has to understand the so that he can do the other to do at his end of year speech. &quot;'If the time should come between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened and kind, and brave, because he's strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort.'&quot; Until the end of Goblet of Fire, Dumbledore doesn't know to survive the final duel. He believes he's going to have to die. Which means he has to count to do not what is easy, but what is right. (eerie music) Guys, welcome to a part five where today we are going to be discussing &quot;the Order of the Phoenix.&quot; Well, it took four books to get here, but Voldemort has finally returned, and yet somehow he's not even I mean, what does that say about Umbridge? I think a lot. (dramatically clears throat several times) One of those well be good. Which is not to say the have a presence in the book and Harry is still the to finish him off, and so Dumbledore is to prepare Harry for the inevitable. Unlike the last few books though, this time Dumbledore has the what Voldemort is up to: And since not knowing the is presently stopping Dumbledore's main goal is And this goal ties into a few of his goals for Harry this year, all of which now have since Voldemort has actually returned. But what's really interesting that now that Voldemort is back, you actually get to see some be put to the test. Oh, Dumbledore in many ways, I think you are your own a sentiment I think you are &quot;'Do you see Harry? Do you see the flaw in I had fallen into the trap I had foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I must avoid.'&quot; Ugh, fall you did Well, not literally. That's not until the next book. I mean, look, No! (splat noise) Oh no! Too soon? Either way the point is, it's not that your We'll get more into that quote later, but I wanted to bring because I feel like it for all of Dumbledore's which are, first similar to how it was in &quot;Prisoner of Azkaban&quot; Second is to demonstrate the and maybe encourage a little rebellion. And lastly, is to finally of the prophecy and why Which let's be real, it is about time. - Well, it's a good thing we but why did Voldemort try - I know philosopher stone, right? I could, I swear, Harry, I swear I had some - Wow, Professor, I can't but why did Voldemort try - Dude, have you seen this sword? This thing is awesome. How much do you think - Wow, can you believe time travels real? And Voldemort's coming back I really like to know - Hippogriffs are as and maybe have some chocolate, - (sobbing) Cedric is dead. Why does he keep trying to kill me? - Oh God, he's crying. Uh, I think I left those I'm just gonna... - In other news, what do you guys think But okay, let's dive into keeping Harry safe. &quot;'People don't like being locked up! You did it to me all last summer.'&quot; A truly wonderful sentiment how much Dumbledore has Voldemort's return means that Harry is in as much danger as he has ever been in, and since Dumbledore is still contents of the prophecy, he needs Harry alive and safe and well. So unlike last summer to the Quidditch World Cup, this summer Dumbledore if Harry is left completely This is because as Dumbledore explains, &quot;'While you can still call home the place where your mother's blood dwells, there you cannot be touched So as far as Dumbledore is concerned, keeping Harry at Number Four Privett Drive as long as possible is Harry could be. Why he doesn't just tell in place is beyond me, but hey, at least in the meantime and Mrs. Fig spying on him without Harry knowing But of course this plan goes and Dudley get attacked and this is an important distinction, because at this point, the to the Ministry. So while Harry is protected if he's also under then it's time to move Harry again. But let's face it, the downgraded at Grimmauld Place, am I right? Yeah. Right. Are you telling me the, the Fidelius charm and from the Order of the Phoenix having his best interest than Mrs. Fig, because yeah. After arriving at the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, Harry learns they are protecting a weapon that everyone is also refusing Which is round two of Harry's protection, because you might just be wondering, why doesn't Dumbledore just 'Cause like if he'd known, then he wouldn't have been and he would've just been and Sirius maybe didn't need to die. The answer though is pretty simple. We talked last week about how that Harry was a horcrux. So the reason Dumbledore because he's afraid then to access his mind and about the prophecy, or at least we know at this point, because after Arthur is &quot;'You know, Dumbledore almost for Harry to see something like this...'&quot; And said attack actually to Dumbledore after he consults his little spinning silver instruments. &quot;A serpent's head grew opening its mouth wide... 'Naturally, naturally,' to himself, still observing without the slightest sign of surprise. 'But in essence divided?'&quot; This is when Dumbledore decides to implement occlumency lessons for Harry with his least favorite Now of course, Dumbledore later claims that to prevent Voldemort from luring Harry to the Hall of Prophecy. But I think the real reason to know occlumency is to accept that it's the only to tell Harry the prophecy. Because Dumbledore can't tell Harry until he knows he can repel Voldemort, 'cause otherwise Voldemort Of course, if it was me, that was the situation like, I can actually tell But this is where a because Snape sees that about the door, and he's obviously telling I mean, if nothing else, occlumency lessons are like into Harry's mind, but even just like telling telling him Voldemort my Like why, Dumbledore, why? But the reason is because in Dumbledore's plan. The reason he doesn't want to tell Harry about the prophecy is for Harry too much. &quot;'What did I care if numbers and creatures were slaughtered if in the here and now you are Dumbledore is basically He has to physically keep Harry alive so that he can kill Voldemort, but his determination to from that burden prevents him which makes Harry stop Which ultimately really which is to demonstrate the - The Cruciatus curse - That's illegal. - Okay, so according to &quot;In the event of the current to provide a candidate the Ministry should select This, as we all know, is with Umbridge or is it? Could it instead be the case of Dumbledore's big plan. (sighs) Yeah, that's the, that's the case. Maybe Dumbledore didn't but, but yes, he wanted Let me ask you you this, does it strike you as at the leader of the Order of the Phoenix, a secret defense against can't find a teacher against the dark arts? I mean, it is literally where Lupin and Mad Eye are I mean, granted Moody and Lupin like could've but like whatever. But like Dumbledore There could not be a for his students than defense and like even if the members don't want the job like tough cookies, that's part of being in the Order, you just do what Dumbledore says. The next year he literally at Hogwarts. Why isn't one stationed as the defense against the In fact, next year he Here is my list, my short list, it could be longer, of that Dumbledore underutilized Kingsley Shacklebolt, Emmeline Vance, Sturgis Bill Weasley, Charlie Tonks, Fluer Delacour, a wet plant, Dobby, Gilderoy Lockhart again, and, this would've been my Molly Weasley. Yes, Molly who doesn't even for the Order of the Phoenix and who I'm sure would've to her children during and who, oh yeah, is the the second darkest character - Not my daughter you - - Oh man. You cannot watch that scene All Umbridge has them do which apparently Dumbledore is okay with, so certainly any of to at least sit there and Especially, and maybe even notably, the wet plant. Heck for that matter, why just teach the class. I mean, we know he's done just literally anyone would've The reason is because to understand the and to double down on Harry's Because we all agree, but at the end of the day, all she really has control But her control there does serve example of what it might over the Ministry. Umbridge comes across a thing she just passes another law. Did those laws make things Her and the inquisitorial Voldemort and the death as soon as they have they pass legislation they taboo Voldemort's they put a bounty on Harry's and they no longer have for the use of deadly spells. And it's important for because, and I know I sound a little bit like a broken record here, but Dumbledore is the only of the prophecy, and that Harry has to be Which means he's uniquely to guide Harry without an ulterior motive. Harry has to be able to and say no to other offers of help because no matter what if not straight up malicious. Plus having Umbridge to practice fighting tyranny. Because having Umbridge absolutely nothing, almost immediately encourages from about 75% of the student was the goal Dumbledore failed but something he definitely does not stand in the way of after the DA is formed. Which is also something the moment it is happening, because unbeknownst to any at the Hog's Head is And yet Dumbledore does In fact, he totally defends it against totally playing dumb, despite knowing exactly Now that said, it's hard to say for sure to form some sort of secret or something. That would be like a really and after all, all of the students are so why would he think Harry to do something about it? I mean, it's not like he but here's the thing. He doesn't have to tell Harry, because he knows Harry will because the Ministry that year is out to discredit three and the return of Voldemort. - He's not back. - Voldemort, who at this in person on four occasions, and whom Harry saw and murder a classmate. Combine that with Harry's like being the one to protect to find the Chamber of Secrets, to fend off a hundred dementors, and it feels pretty obvious something and maybe even wanted him to, and that is why he allowed And the foreshadowing here I mean, if Umbridge and the inquisitorial squad represent Voldemort and the death eaters, then Harry and the DA represent Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoenix. Which by the way, Dumbledore to form a secret defense league, but he did also have Harry of his own secret defense So I'm just saying, I'm not saying for sure it was inception, but like, (confused noise). But that brings us to the for Harry this year, to finally tell him about the prophecy. Dumbledore tells Harry, &quot;'I defy anyone who has and I have watched you more closely than you can have imagined - not to want to save you more pain than you had already suffered.'&quot; First of all, there it is right there, Dumbledore just admitting to the plan, always having someone nearby and push him in the right And we touched on this but with Voldemort back, Dumbledore is officially out of excuses for not telling Harry why But I do think he as we said earlier, is why he really wants Of course, Harry doesn't, but it ends up working out because the prophecy is there's no way for including breaking into Harry's mind, because after he tries to possess him and feels the mortal agony of coming into contact with a pure and whole soul, Dumbledore is confident and attack Harry's mind again. This however also means, from that he will never know the prophecy. So not gonna bother try May as well, revert to the which is, screw it, kill Harry, and Dumbledore knows which is the thing that at long and makes him tell Harry the prophecy. On top of that, the whole world so the time for preparation to attack has begun. And you might think that with all the cards are finally on the table. Dumbledore's big plan is just over, but despite his honesty and despite Dumbledore to tell him everything, he doesn't. He still has at least three and boy are they some big ones, but we will cover that next week. For now, that is it. That is part five of (eerie music) Welcome to part six of where today we're going to be discussing &quot;The Half Blood Prince.&quot; Ah, &quot;The Half Blood Prince&quot; or as it may otherwise be I mean the days of guiding and teaching him the value and friendship and all that are behind us. Dumbledore has now taught about the kind of person Harry needs to be to defeat Voldemort, and he's even armed him - Expelliarmus! Expelliarmus! (magic whooshing) Expelliarmus! Expecto patronum! (magic whooshing) Expecto patronum! (magic whooshing) - Expecto patronum! - All that's left is to tell Harry how to actually kill Voldemort, to teach him about his past, and use that to hunt his horcruxes. Finally, the whole plan is on the table and out in the open. Almost. It's like 97% of the way on but Dumbledore does still have At this point in the game, Dumbledore has to be extremely and when Harry learns the He can see that victory against All the pieces are on the board. He just has to start making his moves at exactly the right moments, because Dumbledore actually The first is of course, which will involve Harry The second is for Harry &quot;Half Blood Prince,&quot; as it is that so many of Dumbledore's actions are actually inactions. Which isn't to say he to prepare Harry for the It's just that all of those and the subject of most of the book, but even his active steps are different from our other entries in this series, where Dumbledore is just as opposed to being behind the scenes and pulling the strings on Harry's life without him realizing it. Conveniently for us though, the goals we outlined earlier and Harry surviving death fall neatly into each of these camps. So first, let's start with rather than what he isn't doing, which is teaching Harry and what kind of person he is. I'd like to open with a &quot;If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the If you know yourself, but not the enemy, for every victory gained, you If you know neither you will succumb in every battle.&quot; This is the principle that in this book, in this And notably is something that Voldemort seems to firmly of knowing yourself, but not knowing your for every victory he has, He finds Quirrell and but ends up getting the stone destroyed. The diary successfully and attacks a bunch of the basilisk dies and the Voldemort finally gets his and then promptly loses a and then after Harry and retrieves the prophecy for him, the prophecy gets smashed and the entire Wizarding world - He's back! Again, if you know yourself, for every victory gained, you This is one of the main so unsuccessful time and time again. He's so arrogant and the does think he understands Harry. He even says so in &quot;the Deathly Hallows.&quot; &quot;'You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I do. He does not need finding. I know his weakness, you He will hate watching the knowing that it is for He will want to stop it at The great irony here is that this is Voldemort's one great flaw. But the point is Voldemort to the forest out of guilt and fear, not out of selflessness, and certainly not as Dumbledore is determined though, that Harry will not fall which is why he does everything as much about Voldemort's He shows him Voldemort's the Gaunts, and the they believed in. He shows him Voldemort's coerces his father into a relationship. His father, who then abandons after realizing they exist. Dumbledore shows Harry the orphanage where Voldemort grew up, where he was alienated from the other kids because of his powers. Not that he really understood How he collected objects of the other children. And at last, he showed him Hogwarts, where Voldemort finally did feel at home, but remained isolated as the in the school. And the purpose of these to just educate Harry about But the real lesson is how this information about Voldemort's past to locate the horcruxes. How Voldemort chose places that as hiding spots for the horcruxes. In particular, Voldemort's of belonging in the Wizarding world, and his absolute affinity for Hogwarts and anything to do with it of information for Harry in his quest. And you can see these lessons really come through a year later in &quot;Deathly Hallows&quot; when Ron says, &quot;'You really understand him.' 'Bits of him, bits... I just as much. But we'll see. Come on - Ollivander now.'&quot; Ah, don't you worry, We're figuring out all the you're not here yet, but All we do is stay inside it's great, it's... hope this joke doesn't age well. Point is, these lessons from Dumbledore are highly instructive in in particular, the cup and the Diadem, because Harry is able to that he would have wanted and seen it as a real part of belonging in the Wizarding world. And all throughout &quot;Deathly Hallows,&quot; Harry is having to contend who continuously shoot down his insistence that Voldemort would've Personally, I like to think out Voldemort did hide one at Hogwarts, Harry took a little private moment to do like a little I told you so dance. And once they know a Harry is then able to deduce in the first place by and he's able to figure because he understands and fascination with Hogwarts. Which is to say, he knows believed he was the only one to ever find the Room of Requirement. And what I kind of love about Dumbledore teaching is the faith it demonstrates in Harry, because at that point, his death with Snape and Harry knows, if not more, and yet, he himself has not He simply understands that this knowledge and knowing your enemy even if he isn't sure how On the other hand, though, Dumbledore deems not worthy Because it all plays into which is for Harry to survive death. And again, he cannot for him to survive death, and that is sort of the really If you will recall back to we talked about a gleam of This gleam happens upon a Harry's blood to regenerate his body. It was the moment might have a way back, Because at that point, Dumbledore already knows but suddenly a window of And I think it's worth until that moment, Dumbledore kind of was just raising Harry as a pig for slaughter, but as of learning this he has to adjust it because Harry can survive. So first let's fast forward to where Harry does in fact survive, and he and Dumbledore have &quot;'But I should have died I meant to let him kill me!' 'And that will, I think have This little exchange helps inform so many of Dumbledore's decisions. Harry has to mean to die. He has to face Voldemort with no idea that survival is possible because that is what it means to be the true master of death. &quot;'You are the true master of death, because the true master from death. He accepts that he must that there are far, far worse things in the living world than dying.'&quot; So in short, if Harry then the sacrifice can't be real, and he won't be able to come back. Now, rest assured, his and the horcrux would still be destroyed, Harry just wouldn't be able to survive it. Dumbledore though, who has suspects that survival and so starts leading Harry Which is why he does not tell First is that Snape loved Lilly, second is the existence and third that Harry himself is a horcrux. Harry comes so, so, so about Snape from Dumbledore to go hunt for the locket, and you can tell Dumbledore &quot;'Professor, how can you be Dumbledore did not speak for a moment; he looked as though he was about something. At last he said, 'I am sure. I trust This is a really tough He certainly believes Harry has a right to know this information as it relates to the death of his parents, and he just learned that Snape is the one who overheard the prophecy, but this is an example from his mistakes in &quot;Order the Phoenix,&quot; where he admitted to Telling Harry the truth but it won't save his life. Because the real reason is later revealed during Dumbledore's portrait is talking to Snape, telling him to go give to Harry, Ron, and Hermione, in the Forest of Dean and because, &quot;'If Voldemort and see you acting for him-'&quot; Snape then cuts him off. But the point is, if Harry then Voldemort could learn Which ultimately might not except the Dumbledore has with Snape. Which means Snap's ability to act from within Voldemort's by like 10. Snape being the one who kills and trust from Voldemort, meaning Snape can then which he totally does. He protects Order members during the Battle of the Seven Potters. He gives Harry, Ron, and he's even suggesting from behind the scenes. But the other real bigger other person that knows Harry needs to die at the hands of Voldemort. That Harry must sacrifice himself. And Dumbledore entrusts Snape with the task of eventually &quot;'So the boy... the boy must die?' 'And Voldemort himself That is essential.'&quot; Which by the way, if you've ever thought the way in which Snape finally, eventually does give that wow, Voldemort had and not killed Snape with the Nagini, that would've been the end of it, Harry never would've known. The reason Voldemort against Snape is because he believes Snape is the master of the Elder Wand, so he doesn't wanna use the Elder Wand against Snape 'cause he in the exact way it does I finally figured that out last week and I've been like dying to tell you guys. Anyway, since Snape it means Harry can't know Because if Voldemort finds out that Snape is actually a traitor, he will certainly break into his mind and learn this information. Which means Voldemort would know that attacking Harry would on himself as it was an attack on Harry. Does that make sense? He would know that Harry walking into the forest was not a defensive move, but an offensive move. And he may order somebody which then again, would stop Harry from As for the Deathly Hallows, because at this point, Dumbledore already and intends for Harry to and for Hermione to get on the tales of the three brothers that will inevitably lead about the Deathly Hallows. Plus he already has the Elder Wand and Harry already has the cloak. So like why not just tell him! Well, his reasoning, at least what he tells &quot;'I was scared that if presented outright with the facts about you might seize the Hallows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them safely.'&quot; And the stone in particular It is the final piece of the thing he thinks will but based on the way he conceals it, he obviously only intends before he dies, and definitely not earlier to like, I don't know, Boy, can you imagine if out way sooner and was like, woohoo, Dumbledore. - [Ben] Boy, how do we get salmon? - We are so hungry. (Ben laughs) He needs Harry to know but also not to tell him ahead of time. So he tells him via the story, but then that also And he can't tell Harry because it might seem like a way that Harry can survive death, and Harry can't think because then he can't survive death. Got it? And as for not telling ahead of time, well, we've touched on this some already, but it mostly comes down to this quote. &quot;'Harry must not know, not until it is necessary, otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must be done?'&quot; Revealing this information to just telling him the whole plan. Telling him that this whole for Harry to die, which I dare say would undermine he'd built up over the past six years. Of course that's not the full plan, the full plan is for him to survive. But again, he can't tell him this, and I feel like I'm a broken record, because if he tells him It's a really weird conundrum. But he can't tell him just because if he finds out that Dumbledore been trying to kill him the whole time without realizing that then he might not carry out and then Voldemort wins. Now we can't have that. (Voldemort laughing) but there you go, guys, that is part six of Dumbledore's Big Plan. Personally, I really loved this one, I like the beginning half about because I also feel like it helps explain all the stuff Dumbledore about himself in &quot;Deathly Hallows.&quot; It demonstrates how crucial they spent together was, like Dumbledore had one focus, and that was teaching Learning more about each other that might have made better friends like, oh, we're that's awesome. But it doesn't help to defeat Voldemort. (eerie music) Guys, welcome to part seven where today we are going to be discussing &quot;the Deathly Hallows.&quot; If you haven't seen parts one through six, I recommend you check that but otherwise let's do this. Guys, this has been an insane journey, but at long last here we are, book seven, &quot;the Deathly Hallows,&quot; where and the full extent of The particularly tricky part about &quot;the Deathly Hallows&quot; though, is that well, Dumbledore is dead. So you might be wondering what plans could he possibly even Like yeah, sure, Harry is out working to destroy the horcruxes, but didn't we discuss Yes we did. But last week, what we discussed was Dumbledore's and to make sure Harry This week, however, we go even deeper to reveal Dumbledore plan, not just to protect but also his soul. Guys, I still remember &quot;the Deathly Hallows&quot; and the I felt when I finally Harry and Voldemort in the Great Hall and but Harry has a few more secrets. And as he was revealing them, just the waves of realization (gasps) Draco disarmed Dumbledore. (gasps) Harry took that wand from Draco. Harry is the master of the Elder Wand. Oh my God! Expelliarmus! Bang! Whiz! Kapow! (chair banging against floor) So fun. But the trouble is that now after nearly 20 years of reflection, countless rereads, and I've come to the conclusion that the Elder Wand wasn't to the final battle. Because by the time the Harry is basically Since Goblet of Fire, when Voldemort used Harry's the two have both been acting as each others anchors to life. Lily's sacrificial love is kept alive in Voldemort who anchors Harry, and Harry has a piece of anchoring Voldemort. Neither can kill the other, but also must always be hunting the other. Voldemort has to kill to the prophecy, Harry is the only one with And Harry must hunt Voldemort he's the only one who can do it. The problem is they even if they wanted to, and their wands share twin cores, so they can't even fight But by the time we get the rules have changed. Each of them has a new wand including the one inside of meaning that Voldemort cannot kill Harry, but that Harry can kill Voldemort. So whoever's the master of the Elder Wand doesn't really matter. Harry has won the fight and when I first realized this, it was kind of a bummer to me. I mean, it's the climax and the fight is about who like how could it not matter? And so I've been asking myself Why go through all that trouble in fact master of the Elder Wand? What difference did it make? And the answer is that it in the world. Let's back up a few reads the contents of Dumbledore's will to Harry, Ron, and Hermione, because it reveals a lot about He, of course, bequeathed &quot;The Tales of Beedle and the resurrection stone to Harry. And we talked last week of the resurrection stone in terms of Harry marching so that he could actually Basically that Dumbledore going to require to walk and face Voldemort completely wandless, and maybe if you could be escorted by the ones you loved the most, that was just the final bit but there was also a fourth object left in Dumbledore's will, which the Sword of Griffindor. Harry laments in &quot;the Deathly Hallows,&quot; &quot;'It was there, it was right during all our talks last year! why didn't he just give it to me then?'&quot; Then later on in the story, Harry, Ron, and Hermione conclude that the reason Dumbledore the sword was because he on the locket. &quot;'And Dumbledore didn't still needed it, he wanted '-and he must have realized it if they put it in his will-' ' -so he made a copy-' ' -and put a fake one in the glass case-'&quot; Aha! And that explanation seems but it is not actually an Yes, Dumbledore realized the it to Harry if he left but that's kind of the sticking point. He left it in his will before the events of the which is important because it means that Dumbledore never intended Like even if they had successfully and had indeed destroyed the locket, Dumbledore was not just He always intended Harry to And you might be thinking well, couldn't he have planned and then included it in his will, just in case he couldn't do that? Like just to cover all of his bases. But no, he could not have done if he knew that the Ministry then if he gave the sword and then the Ministry found they could go and seize it. I mean, that's assuming No one really ever does, so it But you know, my point is if the plan in person, then you wouldn't 'cause that would just I will say it is possible to at least show Harry to destroy a horcrux, so that later on when the will was read, Harry at least understood why But that part of the plan and it's not the only part as expected before Dumbledore dies. The other thing that didn't go as intended was the passage of the allegiance of the Elder Wand to Snape. &quot;'If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with 'I admit that was my 'but it did not work as So here's what we know before he died. First, was for Snape to for Harry and everyone else second, was for Snape to be and third, was for Harry to get And these three things tell us everything and reveal Dumbledore's grand Where do you guys think I imagine like right here, hm? Probably not like down here, right? - [Ben] Nowhere near the intestines. - Oof. I can only imagine how been for Dumbledore who, even for Harry to survive death, again, he was still having to face the fact that the prophecy pretty to become a murderer. And as we all know, murder that rips one's soul. Harry might physically survive, but his soul seemed doomed and you can see Dumbledore of precautions with Draco. We learned this when Snape about arranging Dumbledore's death. &quot;'If you don't mind 'why not let Draco do it?' 'The boy's soul is not yet 'I would not have it ripped And we've seen what apart looks like after death. This little gross baby thing you see alongside Harry at King's of Voldemort's soul. It is totally mangled and It is stuck in limbo forever. Now to be fair, that's the which is the most mangled but I still don't think to have to experience any version of that. So he concocts a way around it. A way for Voldemort to kill himself by falsely believing that he is the master of the Elder Wand. When in actuality it's Harry. And here's how he planned it. First of all, I think it is safe to say to become headmaster at meaning that he would also to the Sword of Griffindor. &quot;'He believes the school will 'And if it does fall into almost, it seemed, as an aside, 'I have your word that you to protect the students of Hogwarts?' Snape gave a stiff nod.&quot; So basically that means Dumbledore to be the one to give Harry the sword. And as we said earlier, he also intended for of the Elder Wand. Not that Snape was ever or even be aware that the wand had shifted its allegiance to him, but Dumbledore did want the to him because, as he tells &quot;'But you expected Voldemort 'I have been sure that he would try, ever since your wand beat Voldemort's in the graveyard of Little Hangleton.'&quot; Which okay, in case you didn't catch it, that is basically Dumbledore He intended Snape to and also was sure that but that doesn't really Because if he knows Voldemort and he intends Snape then shouldn't he be concerned that Voldemort is indeed of the Elder Wand? Well, you'd think so, but no, because that is where comes into play. Now we've established earlier to give Harry the sword, but According to Dumbledore, &quot;' Now, Severus, the sword! Do not forget that it must be taken under conditions of need and valor-'&quot; So what I think his original to instruct Snape to duel Harry was always meant to and always had a grudge so I don't think it to lure him into a fight. Plus if Snape was wielding the sword, which Harry knew he needed well, that would just anger him further. I mean, how dare Snape wield the slime ball. So Harry would valiantly duel disarm him, unknowingly win the allegiance of the Elder Wand, and claim the sword. Then later on Voldemort in his quest for the Elder Wand would which he would do, falsely believed that he was the master of the Elder Wand, and then in the final match between Harry, it would backfire because on its true master and Voldemort kills himself. Harry's soul is intact and Although there are a few other to address and just finish off. Because you might be thinking well, if Snape intends to lose then really neither the wand nor the sword should shift its Like if Snap's trying to lose, does that really count as a win for Harry? Would the wand actually transfer to him? And as for the sword, there's not much valor in to lose, right? Well, first of all, the wand doesn't care. Dumbledore plans his death with Snape and is still confident his allegiance to Snape, so as far as the wand is disarmed is disarmed. From Dumbledore's perspective, Harry would become the master, even in a planned loss. And as for the sword, it really doesn't matter if because no matter what, Snape is a deadly gonna require courage, no matter what. Especially when you the best duelist, and in the and swiftly defeated Harry Yeah, I said, Snape was the best duelist, take that Flitwick I don't care. I don't care. Flitwick was a dueling champion, ah. I'm sorry, Snape was Snape. I always assumed that in sort of like league with not like out in the wild. Snape was Snape, I think Yeah, at me. But that you guys was to protect Harry's soul Of course, it doesn't work out that way because Draco disarms Dumbledore, but fortunately Harry and this exact scenario plays out, which honestly is kind because it means that Harry without Dumbledore's help, But there you go, guys, that is part seven of Dumbledore's Big Plan. I hope you have enjoyed as much as we have enjoyed making it. It has been so much fun. Thanks as always for Please remember to leave a like on it, if you haven't already, and subscribe so you don't action from us. If you want more Harry Potter action, we have a huge playlist of but otherwise, Ben, I will see