I explored a method that lets you turn your make dual color, or even quad color filament filament that conveys a secret message, even make meta materials by combining Let's find out more! Guten Tag everybody, This video is sponsored by Squarespace. to save 10% off your first purchase of a I only got into this rabbit hole of trying to make because I found a really old material spool printing, many machines still used 3 mm filament market uses nowadays. Also, my Mendel90 was one so I still have some of this really old what I could do with these leftovers instead shred the filament to create pellets that I could I built the Recreator3D from an old 3D bottles into 3D printing filament. It does this by dragging it through a hot nozzle having convert a strip of plastic into a couldn't we maybe just feed the 3 mm material So, I got the old roll of filament out. I quickly common. 3 mm PLA filament is really stiff compared or just form into the right shape. First, I had material through the small nozzle hole. When stip to a pointy tip, but this is hardly possible becomes soft when heated even before you go over heated up a section of the 3 mm filament, and then feed that tip through the nozzle, which gave me an uses a winder to slowly drag the material through had to drag some filament by hand so that I could I had no clue which temperature to use you stay slightly below the melting point I first set the nozzle to 150 degC. After it got to it. Unfortunately, that directly failed because I lowered the temperature by 20 degC, made another pull it a second time, which again failed. I already felt better, yet it was still too soft and sweet spot because the material still was firm but It was quite a pain to pull the filament all the just before the finish. Yet once I pulled it very to feed it through the hole and start winding. and really formed a very nice and consistent was a bit undersized, and playing around with I initially thought that the diameter of the final diameter of the filament, yet I quickly realized I was wrong. I had the rather the result of the amount of pulling force tried to pull a Nylon string or a piece of TPU that they initially don't break but simply shrink string. There is probably a name for that effect, I think this is exactly what's happening in I only give the PLA filament the softness that if the small diameter is smaller than my I thought I could lower this effect by having a filament on a very short length. So, I drilled a and added a chamfer in the back, hoping that this from 3 mm to my target diameter of 1.75mm. able to significantly increase the output which was perfect and close enough. I had some problems with the materials installed an additional guide that helped feed I did a test print with my re-sized material, So proof of concept: successful. Even though Speaking of filament diameter. After painfully long time I realized that a viewer recently WInFiDEL Sensor a Wireless Inline Filament by Sasa Karanovic. This is an evolution which is now WiFi enabled and comes with to live-monitor the filament diameter in lever to measure the filament diameter, that's bits with known diameter through the sensor This sensor is fully open source and if you want description. This little gadget was perfect for If you engineered a great product yourself of course need a professional website where people of course, also purchase them. I know that it can about creating a website from scratch. Yet this is will assist you. Squarespace is the all-in-one and they just launched Squarespace Blueprint AI, a and creating your website. Seriously, try it out or use the link in the description. Browse to You'll now be guided through 5 simple questions on simple description, Squarespace Blueprint AI pieces with sample text, often even ready to the images to your liking, filling the shop where you'll get a 10% discount if you use code for several years and can truly say that they make it super easy. Squarespace is a great fit for or your business' website, and you should try it using the link in the description! Thanks I simply added the WInFiDEL between the nozzle my filament diameter and this was especially mm filament didn't want to be resized as easily. down the diameter in order to find the optimal high resulting in an undersized filament. Too becomes too thin. Somewhere in between, there I finally settled at 95 degC, which gave me yet I can compensate for that in the that it did print nicely, without a Resizing old filament might not not even talking about if this really makes g sample. This means that re-sizing a So let's get to the more interesting part. You filament, where one string of filament consists through a 3D printer hotend is completely laminar, the extrusion from the nozzle is still really nice effects on parts. There is a way to and Sunshine3D demonstrated that years ago, colors in the middle. You usually print bed adhesion and a symmetric shape. Yet it still can cause problems during printing, and want to add a special shape, and this So I thought, why not print a significantly re-sizer and shape it to the right diameter? I variant. To make the STL for it, I went into crosssection. I then created a sketch with a it would touch the bed. I then used the sweep tool and loaded it into Prusa Slicer. I simply added added a filament change after half of the layers which was loaded with yellow and black filament. mm diameter blank that I could try to form into a tip, pushed that through the nozzle, and after a WInFiDEL again helped me a ton dialing in the gave me a very consistent 1.75 mm, so I left which resulted in a nice sample, and that I hate these printer names!). Since the filament colors sometimes changed, yet I ended up Everyone now has a dual-color filament, so I wanted to make something new and went I slightly changed my CAD model in Fusion so print job in PrusaSlicer. My PrusaXL had blue, very nice color gradient. After 70 minutes, Initially, I always only formed a thin tip on have the right distance to the hot air gun and you are able to create a very long, thin section the filament with force through the nozzle. hotter and got a very consistent diameter again printed really nicely and created and is honestly one of the nicest combinations color scheme used in thermal vision or finite The A1 Mini that I used for printing also created Yet these color combinations would have probably the hexagonal 1.75mm filament. Several ABS for very special annealing properties. You can was a filament that had a core from polycarbonate to print even a properly round core at that time. even more complex internal shapes to adjust and possible to be directly printed, at least with a my 4 mm diameter blank. This size gives me enough my filament. As a first trial, I added my channel Prusa XL. Re-shaping it again went smoothly, and logo on the inside. It just prints like any special. Yet if we take a bit of purged material, microscope, we're perfectly able to recognize the Isn't that cool? Funnily enough, this whole pattern obviously also remains if you print a real but you will still be able to recognize it. I could really see applications here for Of course, this can also be used for other things, at your broken impact samples that you really and would really like to know what you'd like to One of the problems I unfortunately had the filament itself seemed to have a bit of layer The stresses applied during this operation strands and sometimes made the filaments strip a little with the temperature during the pulling Yet I think the most impactful application of this filaments, similar to what I did with the PC-core PLA filament because I was curious about how this also showed a bit of the limits of my 3 mm filament or even the multi color filaments nerves. Because TPU doesn't like to bond to PLA the PLA hull sometimes broke after pulling, able to escape. I was able to get it working but it wasn't as easy as I thought it would and left me with some pinkish-looking parts. samples because I was hoping that the TPU added test result really blew my mind because the TPU the Bambu PLA that I used already was pretty tough impressive that even this good strength was more with some standard PLA. Looking at the sample and TPU didn't mix and created this multi-material matrix. In the back, where the part didn't break, gave this unique material its amazing properties! like a damper in your car. When the sample dissipate energy that way! Impressive, and this This method is obviously not perfect but I definitely could imagine, that it's a unique filaments for special applications extruders. PC-core ABS or TPU-Core PLA and with the right combinations, we could be step forward. If you have ideas, about what could then please leave a comment down below, and The biggest problem that I faced and that drove me either during extrusion or during printing. thing significantly different. Instead of I'll probably build a custom hotend, that in all the layers perfectly bonding together. of the screw extruder and use its filament perfect multi-color or multi-material filament, thoughts on this? What do you think I could