Suye After today I will ruin your reputation This way Who is it? Let me go Help, let me go I'm sorry I will take responsibility for you Let me go I was defiled by a stranger. Sister Slept with a filthy, lowly gigolo. How does it feel? You framed me. You're mistaken. This was handpicked for you by Uncle Jia. Impossible. Hahaha. What's impossible? Jiabo and I have been together for a long time. But I must say, I feel guilty about someone. When I pulled your mom's oxygen tube, That old woman was begging me to take care of you before she died. So, it was you, Su Ling, who killed my mom. I'll kill you. Sister, sister. Go to hell. Welcome back, President Su. President Su, President Su. Mr. Su The land price we offered to Su Ling is too high They're still hesitating Find a way to lower the price Su Ling alone Definitely can't secure that land Get her to involve Gao Jiabao as well Yes, Mr. Su By the way Su Ling would like to invite you for dinner I'll pass for now. Use your status as the head of Ye Yu Group To meet her on my behalf. Understood, Mr. Su. Su Ling Gao Jiabo Surprised I'm still alive, huh? This time, I'll make you pay a heavy price. Mommy Hey, sweetheart, you're here! Will I see Dad this time I'm back? I think so. Qin Chongzhou, I saw your son. He looks just like you. This isn't funny. Why does he look so familiar? Could it be... Could it be... The woman from five years ago? Southern scenery I give you three days to get all the information on that woman Brother Qin It's really him Who are you looking for My son is in your hands What Could he be the gigolo Su Ling was looking for back then He's not here to snatch the child, is he? What bad luck So what Name your price Give me back my son Used to selling myself So I thought even my son could be a deal What are you talking about Yuhang always wanted a dad Otherwise Come in and talk Here's a million. I'll take care of you for a year. Be the father of my son. You'll support me for a year. What? A million for a year. Not enough. I don't have time for your games. These tricks of yours. What do you want? Just say it Give me back my son It seems your job is quite lucrative But to compete with me for my son You're probably not qualified Three million a year More than that, and you can leave Mommy, is someone coming? Sweetheart, mommy has to discuss something You play by yourself for a while, okay? I agree My son is very smart To avoid him noticing You bring the household registration book now Come with me to get the certificate Mommy Mommy, is he really my daddy? Absolutely Didn't daddy get Killed by the little monster? That's all just for 3-year-olds. You're already 5 now. I need to see your marriage certificate, or I won't believe it. I have a dad now. Mommy, can we go eat something delicious tonight? Of course. I remember. The best restaurant in North City now seems to be Nanfeng Restaurant. How about we go there? That's great! Thank goodness I have you, Jie Bo. They say it's hard to secure a table at South Wind Restaurant. Here to invite Mr. Liu, the CEO of Ye Yu Group, for a meal. He will definitely give us some face. Ling Er. I'm here to help you, your fiance. It's the least I can do. This time, you will definitely succeed in acquiring the land. Su Ye. You're still alive You're still kicking How could I leave this world You're quite the survivor But sadly, even if you're alive It seems like you're not doing too well I've never seen such a fancy place as Nanfeng Restaurant Someone took a taxi here That's hilarious What kind of car do I take What's it to you? So what if you were still alive, Su Ye? You'd still just Marry a Broke guy who can only take taxis. But me, I'm now the CEO of the Su family. And you, You're just a worm I'll always step on, A wretch who'll never rise again. Really? Mommy, don't talk to that weird lady. Baby's tummy is so hungry. Sweetheart Mommy will take you in for some yummy food. Hello Please show your reservation proof. What reservation proof? Hahaha What? Suye You wouldn't even know Reservations are needed at Nang Feng Restaurant Do you have no idea? The boss here socializes with the high society It's either rich or noble The person I invited today is the head of the Ye Yu Group As for scum like you, you're not even worthy Suye Why don't you kneel down Please, Ling'er and I I'll pull some strings to get you in Brother Jiabo, don't bother It's a well-known rule at Nanfeng's As everyone knows The lower class and dogs are not allowed Mommy, why aren't you going in yet? Truly, a wretched life begets wretched offspring Still thinking about how to eat at a time like this Hahaha You dare hit me Who's making such a racket here? Nan Fengjing He's the eldest son of the Nanfeng family The owner of Nanfeng Restaurant Nan Fengjing I didn't expect him to be here Hello Young Master Nanfeng I'm the heir to Gao's Construction Gao Jiabo She is Su Ling, the CEO of the Su Corporation Young Master Nanfeng I've heard so much about you, it's an honor to meet you Miss Su Your VIP room has been prepared for you Welcome to Nanfeng Restaurant Young Master Nanfeng, have you mistaken someone? Yes They three are probably the lower class, they might not even know this place Can't even afford a dish How could I book a VIP room Miss Su is my guest at Nanfeng Scenery You two What are you again Miss Su Do you know her? No, I don't Security Get them out We had an appointment. Why are you kicking us out? Because I am the owner of Nanfeng Restaurant. Young Master Nanfeng. Today we're hosting the head of the largest foreign enterprise in Beicheng, Ye Yu Group. Can you afford to offend Ye Yu Group? Are you responsible for that? Ye Yu Group Understood. Today I'm doing Ye Yu Group a favor letting you in But after today If you wish to step into Nanfeng Restaurant again Don't blame me for being rude Miss Su Please come in Let's go Mr. Nanfeng, do you know me? I can't stand seeing injustice, can't bear their condescending looks. But That I have things to do, so I'll leave first. Hey, Mr. Wang Yes, of course. I'll go to the restroom first, you and Hang order the dishes. Mommy has to take a call. You almost blew it. Brother Qin I'm not an actor, I've tried my best. Who told sister-in-law to be so smart. She's not my sister-in-law. She is my sister-in-law. She's the mother of your child. Let's not talk about this. Brother Qin. Why did you finally give in to that Mr. Su and Mr. Gao, letting them in? These two don't look like good people. Give them face Do they deserve it? I'm giving face to the Ye Yu Group This Beicheng Xinpu foreign-funded enterprise Its strength should not be underestimated I've always wanted to Talk with the chairman of Ye Yu Group about a cooperation Why is it &quot;wanted&quot;? The chairman of Ye Yu Group refuses to show up Hasn't been giving much face We, the river-crossing dragons, fear no local snakes. This Ye Yu Group Truly domineering Haven't come across such an interesting thorn in a while. Mr. Liu, may I ask when you will arrive? I'm on my way. Great, I'll be waiting at the private room entrance. What a small world. Su Ye, don't get too cocky. Young Master Nan Feng must have mistaken someone else. Otherwise, how could a wretch like you Ever step through the doors here? That's right. Don't get cocky just because you got lucky today. You'll be crying when it's time to pay the bill. My affairs Are none of your concern. Ah, Ling'er. Don't waste words on this woman. Mr. Liu will be here any moment. Focus on the matter at hand Get out of my sight now Standing here is quite uplifting If you bump into someone important later, watch out Mr. Su, what are you doing here Mr. Su Mr. Su Impossible, this wretched person, absolutely impossible It's related to the Ye Yu Group Mr. Liu Did you mistake me for someone else? I think You must have mistaken me for someone else. Sorry, I mistook you for someone else. I knew it. This wretched person couldn't possibly be connected to the Ye Yu Group. Miss, I apologize. It's quite an embarrassment, really. I slipped just now, it was an accident. Are you alright? Though this man is poor and somewhat pathetic, he truly loves you. But he probably doesn't know about your past affairs with other men, and the scandalous photos that went viral. If you ask me, a woman of your low character is quite fortunate to find an honest man to take you off the market. Hahaha Ling'er, How dare you? Watch your mouth. If you insult my woman again, you'll see what I do. Goodnight, Mommy. Goodnight, sweetheart. Goodnight, baby. I'll head back then. Daddy, are you leaving? Other families' Daddies and Mommies Sleep together. Are you deceiving your baby? Baby's so sad. Of course, Mom and Dad aren't lying to you. Right? Yes, sweetheart. Go back to sleep now. Daddy's not leaving. I'll leave in a bit. Thanks for being like this today. You take the bed, I'll take the couch. No need. Daddy, Mommy Sweetheart Why aren't you asleep yet? Daddy, Mommy My eyes hurt, can you take a look? Peanut said when a boy kisses a girl There'll be a baby in her tummy, Mommy I want a little sister Su Yuhang, go to bed right now Daddy, you can't leave Mommy behind Maybe you're just a jerk. Don't worry, Dad won't lose it. Brother Qin. You and your wife were quite intense yesterday. If you don't have anything serious to say, The mining project is short of people. How about I send you to do some mining? You're idle anyway. No, no, no. Who said it's not serious? You mentioned it's tough to get an appointment with the chairman of Ye Yu Group last time. Coincidentally, our matriarch is celebrating her birthday. We're extending a formal invitation. It's her birthday celebration. She can't refuse, can she? You're good for something in crucial moments. Of course. Brother Jiabo, you really got it. An invitation from the Nanfeng family. Attending such a high-class banquet is a symbol of status and position. Ling'er I said I'd bring you the best in the world I want to make Su Ye not even worthy to carry your shoes Brother Jiabo Thank you I'm not yet ready to appear publicly as the chairman of Ye Yu Group But it's the old lady's birthday banquet, we should show some respect. I'll drop off the gift and leave the rest to you. Alright, Mr. Su. How could he get in such a formal banquet? Did one of his old clients sponsor him? I should go in and check. You wouldn't know if you've been cheated on. Please show your invitation. Me? Why are you here? If you can come, why can't I? I have a formal invitation from the Nanfeng family. Who do you think you are to compare with me? Oh no. The invitation from the Nanfeng family to the Ye Yu Group. Was taken by Jiajia. Why is there no invitation? Trying to sneak in and steal, huh? But a lowly poor person like you, You'll never be able to afford these high-end things at the banquet, will you? When it comes to stealing, you're the expert, aren't you? What you're eating, wearing, using, even your identity, it's all stolen from me. Shut your mouth! Five years ago, Dad said I'm the only legitimate daughter of the Su family. As for you, Just a disgrace to the Su family A despicable lowlife What are you fools waiting for Throw her out now I am an official guest invited by the Nanfeng family Offend me I'll make sure you all regret it Stop Get out of my way, you old hag How dare you stop me Do you know who I am? I'll see who's so arrogant. Daring to cause trouble at Madam Nanfeng's birthday banquet. Mrs. Qin, hello. So it's Mrs. Qin, my apologies for the disrespect just now. I'm Su Ling, the CEO of Su Corporation. How dare I disrespect at the old lady's birthday banquet? It's this person here. Sneaked in uninvited, trying to steal. Caught red-handed. Greetings, Mrs. Qin I came in to find someone, not to steal Your demeanor is elegant and refined, not like a lowly thief But you With your sly looks, you're repulsive Guards Show her out Such a person Is unfit to appear at the matriarch's birthday banquet No I'm the CEO of the Su Corporation. You can't make me leave. A third-rate family dares to flaunt in front of the Qin family? My fiance is from the Gao family. The Gao family. I've heard of them. However, They're just a minor family. Not worth mentioning. Take her away. Let me go. Let's go in together. Mrs. Qin I don't have an invitation. If I say you can go in, who dares to stop you? In North City, If my Qin family doesn't have a say, no one else does. Hahaha Hey, sweetheart. Mommy, when are you coming back? Mommy will be back soon. Have dinner with the aunt first. Will you come back with Daddy? Daddy will go back with Mommy. You're married. Of course, my child is already 5 years old. May I see a picture? Oh, at my age, I crave grandchildren the most. My son won't give me any, so I have to... Bother others for them. Sure, go ahead. Sorry, Mrs. Qin. I forgot to charge my phone before leaving. It's okay, we can check it next time. Leave your contact info first. Done. Mrs. Qin. I'll go find my husband now. Alright, I'm going in too. Looking for my son, your son is already 5. I should hurry up and get our little rascal to... Hurry up. Mr. Su, this is the birthday gift you instructed to purchase. A three-million-dollar Happy Longevity Buddha, personally carved by Mr. Fei. Alright, I'll deliver it myself later. Yes, Mr. Su. Aunt, you must stand up for me! This wretched woman almost kept me out. How did you get in? Brother Jiabo's aunt is married into the Nanfeng family's collateral branch. No matter how powerful Mrs. Qin is, she's just an acquaintance. But my aunt is a legitimate member of the family. Relatives of the Nanfeng family You lowly person Dream on if you think you can drive me out of this banquet You're Su Ye, right? Right now You can either kneel and apologize to Ling'er Or I'll call security to drag you out You're just a distant daughter-in-law of the Nanfeng family I'm afraid you're not in a position to preside over the matriarch's birthday banquet I'm in charge of today's birthday banquet. People who didn't bring a gift. I have the right to throw her out. Guards, drag her out! Wait. Who said I didn't bring a gift? What kind of person do you think Lady Nanfeng is? Does she accept any trash? It's a Buddha of happiness and longevity. You fool, you're really the epitome of stupidity. This statue of the Buddha of Longevity Last year's auction price was already as high as thirty million How dare you even counterfeit Master Yu Yin's work You didn't even check How do you know the one I sent is fake Do we even need to check A poor guy like you You're not even worthy to touch, let alone give Master Yu Yin's work Su Ye ah Your imitation of the Happy Longevity Buddha is quite impressive. It could pass for the real thing. Alas, A fake is still a fake. The real Happy Longevity Buddha, Was gifted before the birthday banquet even started. By my husband, no less. Presenting a forgery at the banquet, Blatantly counterfeiting, Guards! Call the police now Arrest her for me Calling the police is fine But the one you should arrest is not me It's you Because the Supreme Bliss Buddha I sent is real The one you sent Is the fake one What nonsense are you talking about Oh auntie She's probably just trying to dodge the blame by saying that. Don't be angry. Who's telling the truth and who's lying? We'll find out soon enough. Hello, this is Su Ye. Hello, Miss Su. It's been a long time since you last visited. Our boss has been missing you. Now we're sending you the appraiser from North City to the birthday banquet of the Old Lady of Nanfeng. He really doesn't know the meaning of &quot;shame.&quot; Do you think the appraisers from Master Yuyin's team can be summoned with just a casual phone call? It's ridiculous for these unsophisticated country bumpkins to come here and make fools of themselves. Pretending to be something they're not. Everyone knows that Master Yuyin's team has high standards. They're not just at your beck and call. Usually, it takes at least half a month to schedule an appointment with the appraisal team. It's not something you can arrange on a whim. The security at this banquet is terrible. How can just anyone get in? Excuse me, can you move aside? Hello. Are you in charge of the gift area? I'm an appraiser from Yuhun Studio. I heard at Lady Nanfeng's birthday banquet that there were fake masterpieces circulating. Impossible, absolutely impossible. How could a despicable person like Su Ye just call an appraiser with a phone call? Are you trying to say that the appraiser was invited by you? I just sent a message to my husband. This appraiser must have been invited by him. Does it matter who invited the appraiser? The appraiser Is just here to verify authenticity. Of course it matters. This appraiser's number is 001. Only my uncle could invite someone with such profound experience. The appraiser Some people really have thick skin, what good deed have they done? Daring to credit themselves with that? Looks like this appraiser is indeed impressive. So, has he come to any conclusions? You all shouldn't have any objections, right? Of course. He is the most authoritative appraiser in the Jade Concealment World. I'm just afraid that you, a despicable person, after the results come out, will cry and beg like a lowly dog. Begging for mercy. You can still beg for mercy, it's not too late. No need, let's just start the appraisal. This is what you asked for, I originally Wanted to give you a chance considering your connection with the Gao family. But I didn't expect You're ungrateful. Aunt, you're just too kind, I've said it, Su Ye is an ungrateful person. She could even anger her own mother to death, what else is There anything she can't do? You How dare you hit me, you wretched woman I hit you whenever I feel like it I'll fight you to the death You're just like this worthless fake A despicable lowlife What are you looking at? It's just a worthless Fake What's there to see? The real Xi Shou Buddha It was a gift from my husband. It's been safely kept away. You this Is just a pile of trash. Come here. Sweep this trash for me. Wait. This is a genuine Xishou Buddha. Crafted by my master, Master Yu Yin. No, no, no, no, no, no. This can't be true. So you're saying I can't even identify my own teacher's work? I can't even authenticate my own teacher's work? I can vouch for my I can vouch for my career. This one. It's authentic. No, no, no, no, no, no. How could this bitch send Really Xishou Buddha This can't be Could there be Two identical Xishou Buddhas in this world But didn't Master Yu Yin say he never carves Two identical works That's right The Xishou Buddha your husband gave Must be a fake Absurd My husband is from the Nanfeng family. How could he deliver a fake? It must be this wretched woman who sent the fake. Our Nanfeng family doesn't have scum like your husband. He gambled away the company's funds. And tried to deceive grandma with a fake Xishou Buddha. If it weren't for Miss Su Ye, Bringing the real Xishou Buddha, We would still be In the dark. Impossible If the gift from my husband is fake, How could he possibly seek out The 001 appraiser from Jade Concealment Studio for verification? As for this 001 appraiser, He was brought in by my uncle. I am invited by Miss Su Ye. This can't be true. How could this wretched woman get the 001 appraiser? This must be a fake; you two are in cahoots. This lady Please be accountable for your words If you keep talking nonsense Guards Arrest Gao Jiali, I suspect she's involved in The plan to manipulate the company's accounts And arrest Su Ling as well Take them to the police station Why arrest me? I didn't participate in their plan to manipulate the company's accounts Arrest Gao Jiali if you must I have nothing to do with her You ungrateful wretch, after all the help I've given you So soon you betray me like this Your arrest is for smashing The genuine Xishou Buddha Based on the market price And the uniqueness of the Xishou Buddha You need to compensate a hundred million To be set free What? One billion. How can't you afford that? Miss Su Ling, might end up in jail. My fiance is from the Gao family, how could he not come up with one billion? Don't have it all? Alright, I'll give you three days. If you can't come up with one billion, don't blame our Nan Feng family. No mercy After all, you destroyed the most precious birthday gift of our Southern Wind family The most valuable birthday banquet gift Take it away Let me go The market price for this birthday Buddha is 30 million It's only because of its uniqueness that it was hyped to a billion I refuse to believe that the banquet of your Southern Wind family doesn't even have a 30 million birthday gift Miss Su Ye is clever This birthday gift isn't worth mentioning But it depends on who's giving it. Mr. Nanfeng, even though you helped me out, I still need to tell you I'm married. My child is already 5 years old. Oh, come on. My sister-in-law thought I was hitting on her, but even if she gave me a hundred sets of guts, I wouldn't dare to flirt with Qin's woman. I don't mess with married women. It's better that way. Miss Su Ye has something to say. I'm looking for my husband. Ah, looking. The one from the restaurant last time, right? Do you know where he is? In the restaurant upstairs. Mr. Qin. Let me toast to you. Mr. Qin, I was referred by Mrs. Qin. I wasn't aware you were coming. You may leave. Mr. Qin Did I do something wrong? No. Then why won't you even drink the toast I offered? Qin Chongzhou Qin Chongzhou Ma'am, there's a matter of order, isn't there? He's with me. Please show some respect. You Where did you pop up from, you flirt? You're truly the top girl, aren't you? Quite the catch. Although you're mine, When others offer a toast, You still have to give them face. Drink. 3 million a year. Not even enough for a glass of wine. If you don't like it, let's divorce. Don't ever expect to see your son again. Try mentioning divorce again. Be good. Mr. Nanfeng. Wealthy Lady. We'll take our leave now. By the way, Wealthy Lady. Please spread the word in your circles. Qin Chongzhou is taken. Thanks. Her What did she call me just now? Lady wealthy I seem to understand the image of Qin Brother in her heart What it looks like Playing wild and weird Chongzhou, ah I just heard Susu say you just met A shady woman You know, our Qin family is not just anyone. Everyone can get in. I think it's because the Qin family has cooperated too much with the Yu family in peacetime. That's why you have the leisure to meddle in our Qin family affairs. President Qin, please don't blame me. I was afraid you were being deceived, that's why I asked Auntie repeatedly. I'll just say it. Chongzhou. Susu is the daughter-in-law I have my eye on. This matter should be managed by her. I'm already married. What? You've married that vixen. Mother-in-law Rest assured Rest assured, the only daughter-in-law in our Qin family can be you. Even if he's married, I'll make that woman leave. She's the mother of my child. You stop right there. You even have a child. Ah, Miss Yu Why don't you go home first? I'm with Chongju. We still have some family matters to discuss. Auntie, I thought you said you'd support me and Chongju. You'll support me and Chongju? Ms. Yu, if you sign a contract, you can change it. It's a verbal agreement. Don't take it too seriously. Butler. Take Ms. Yu home. Auntie. Son, where's my grandson? It's not the right time for you to meet yet. Son, how can you be so heartless? I carried you for ten months. I raised you with all the hardships. You treat me like this, do you have a conscience at all? Mom, it's not the right time. Is it that woman? Planning to use the child as a bargaining chip? To prevent us from meeting? This woman thinks just because she gave birth, she can join the Qin family. Are you resting on your laurels? Hey, Mom. You're too much of a drama queen. I don't care. You can marry whoever you want. You're going to give me my grandson. There are plenty of moms out there. I just want to see my grandson as soon as possible. If you don't tell me where my grandson is, can't I find out myself? What's wrong with your baby? Mom, I want to go home, I'm a bit tired. Then you go back first, sweetheart, Mom will exercise a bit more. This stinky kid. He kept it really tight. I couldn't find any clues. Thank goodness you are clever, Xiao Yang, and found his address. Madam. Since the master is staying here, most likely the young master is also staying at this hotel. Madam, take a look. Is that the young master? Absolutely, he's my precious grandson. Look, he looks just like our Chongzhou when he was young. My precious grandson, grandma's here to see you. Good grandson, it's grandma. You're my grandma? Yes, just look at how much we resemble each other, you can tell by our facial features. Do you have any identification? Yes, yes, yes. My precious grandson has all the documents he wants. Xiao Yang, quickly bring the certificate. Yes, ma'am. You look so handsome. Oh dear. Come on, darling, take a look. Does it look like you? Look at this and this one. Alright, I believe you're my grandma. Oh, of course, it is. Is my dad really the CEO of Qin's Group? Of course he is. And you, in the future, will be the heir to Qin's Group. My dear grandson, come back with grandma, and live in a big villa, okay? Then, we'll have your dad find you a new mom. I want my own mom. If mom doesn't go, I won't go either. Your mother Just wants to get you into our Qin family Dear grandson, will you listen to grandma and go back with her? No My mom is not like that You're a bad grandma This No wonder Chongzhou didn't let me come This wild fox spirit Quite the tricks up her sleeve Young master refuses to go back with us. What should we do now? She wants to use my precious grandson to enter the Qin family. Humph, I won't let her have her way. Qin Brother and Aunt are with Butler Yang, They went to Sister-in-law's house. Oh, not sister-in-law, it's Miss Su. Alright, I got it. You go on with your business. Stop worrying about my family affairs all the time, focus more on official matters. Like this. I have an account to settle with Lady Nanfeng. Brother Qin, maybe my talent lies in gossip. Are you sure your talent is in gossip? There are mines in South Africa that need to be mined. Bro, I have to go. Hey, Mr. Yang. My mom is investigating you. If you Qin Chongzhou Our marriage should be kept between us, without involving others. In case of divorce, We can still part on good terms. I feel the same way. Miss Su, is that you? Are you alright? I'm fine, just scraped my leg a bit. It should be nothing serious. It's safer to get it checked at the hospital. Xiao Yang, help Miss Su to the car quickly. Yes, sir. Sorry about that It's okay Did you tell your husband about your leg injury? I didn't call him Why not? In a situation like this, shouldn't you inform your husband right away? I get it My son and his wife are also having marital issues That woman, she I don't want her to enter the Qin family's door. Little Su, I think you're quite good. If you really divorce your husband, would you consider my son? Mrs. Qin, I Oh, Su girl, don't be shy. Once my son is divorced and you are too, you both are free, who can say anything? But Enough with the &quot;buts&quot; already. Xiao Su, my son is really quite impressive. The child is in good condition, so don't worry. Xiao Su, my son is really quite impressive. I absolutely won't let that wretched woman have a chance to climb over my head. Mrs. Qin, I have something to say to you. Who said you could come in? Mrs. Qin, I genuinely have your best interests at heart. This Su Ye, huh? She's a slut, anyone's for the taking. Five years ago, her scandalous photos with the top playboy of North City went viral. It even killed her own mother. Who do you think you are, coming to me with your nonsense? Get out of my sight. Wait. Su Ling, the Xishou Buddha you smashed last time, Did you pay for the hundred million? Nan Fengjing said he'd give me three more days. That Xishou Buddha Though I gave it to Lady Nanfeng, it's not registered yet. And you smashed it. In fact, this Buddha still belongs to me. It's not under Nanfeng's control. What do you want? I want you to compensate me now. Who do you think you are? Don't you look at yourself in the mirror? Who do you think you are? You say I should compensate, and I should? Let's see who I am. You can't even come up with a hundred million dollars and you dare to come to me and talk about it? Don't make it seem like the Hishou Buddha is your own. I think you're just a dog running errands for someone. You really think you're the master? You'd better worry about your own business. With the Gao family's power. Do you really think they're willing to pay for you For you. For an unmarried daughter-in-law? I'm pregnant with the Gao family's child. Just a mere hundred million I haven't taken it seriously You wretched woman wants to mock me I tell you, no way You My parents said a hundred million is too much I'm carrying the Gao family's blood, do you want me to go to jail pregnant? There's no other way, maybe you should have an abortion What? You heartless man, I'm carrying But it's your child! Fine, I'll have an abortion and go to jail. And forget about the project, the Gao family is already in. They've invested 800 million in this project. Without the Su family, the Gao family won't get it either. Let's take over this project. Why bring up the project for no reason? I'll pay the 100 million. When we make a profit, that 100 million has to be returned to my parents. Isn't it just 100 million? Once the project is a success A hundred million is nothing, even four billion is doable Let's go If you want to make money from the project, I'll make sure You end up with nothing Boss Su Lin and Gao Jiabo are completely hooked Great, it's time to close the net Are you really so shameless? Not accompanying rich women Now you're accompanying men? Did I see wrong? If something's off, keep quiet. Can't avoid it. They're all the boss. No more allowance from you. How am I supposed to live? You do have a sense of professionalism. No choice. Got to make a living, right? Qin Chongzhou is with me now. It's not suitable to show up in public anymore. I'll drink this toast on his behalf. If you guys want to hang out in the future, Please, find someone else and do me a favor. Favor, favor, must do a favor. That's too serious, too serious. We don't care about face at all. There's no need for drinking. You can take the person, we have no objections. That's not okay, you give me face, how can I not return the favor? Is this liquor so strong? Forgot to tell you, My favorite is the high-proof liquor at 72 degrees. Are you trying to make fun of me on purpose? So it's high-proof liquor, I can still drink it. Sorry, gentlemen, she's had a bit too much. I'll take her home now. Qin Chongzhou, I've got you covered. You're mine now. You must obey and take good care of me and the child. You should uphold male virtues. I know how to take care of the baby. But you, how should I take care of you? Aren't you the top entertainer? You don't even know how to entertain? Is it what I think? You've been around me every day lately. I'm tempted to just find a man for some fun. Emotions Are you sure? You just want to play with my feelings? Oh no, oh no. How could you say Such embarrassing words? Let's go out for breakfast. About yesterday I've already forgotten what happened yesterday. Oh. - Oh. Let me refresh your memory. You said yesterday that you wanted to find a man. I don't want to find a man to play with my feelings at all Okay, okay. You don't? Mommy! Daddy said he'd take us to the amusement park today. We've been to the amusement park before. I've never seen you this excited before. Because it's Daddy and Mommy. First time taking baby to the amusement park Daddy will take you there often in the future Mommy, Daddy, where should we go? What are we going to do there? Both of you are married, why hasn't Daddy bought you a ring? Mommy, does Daddy not plan to stay with us for long? Or else Why doesn't he buy you a ring to tie you down? Let's go and see Auntie, my Daddy is going to buy something for my Mommy Buy the biggest diamond ring in your store Who do you think you are I'll personally serve this customer This is the biggest 10-carat diamond in our store Priced at around 40 million No need to buy that Mr. Su and Mr. Gao, can you come today You really make our jewelry store shine bright with brilliance I believe Mr. Su and Mr. Gao must be here to choose an engagement ring I'll serve you personally. My dad and mom are here for an engagement ring too. I'm a manager-level salesperson. We don't sell cheap rings. You should serve them. I'm sorry. It's okay. Count my ring purchase as your commission. Yes, of course. Alright. How much can this rubbish diamond ring sell for? People like you only deserve to wear such low-quality items. Go. Bring your store's masterpiece to show me. Manager Su This pink diamond is the masterpiece of our store, only someone of your status deserves this pink diamond. Wow! Does Jia Bo look good? Ling'er looks good in anything. Mr. Su, this pink diamond is around forty million. I'll look at some others. Mr. Su, Mr. Gao Take a look at this one, about eight million. Show it to me. Bring out that 10-carat pink diamond. Let me see it. Bring out that 10-carat pink diamond. Let me see it. This pink diamond isn't for just anyone to see. You couldn't afford it even if sold by the pound, so watch your manners. But the customer wants to see it. Just because the customer wants to see it, should we show it? This is a high-end jewelry store's prized possession. It's not for just any low-class person to view. I think you shouldn't continue working here. You have no sense of discernment. Did you hear that? You don't even deserve to look at this pink diamond. A poor devil like you shouldn't pretend to be rich here. You say I'm making a fool of myself, what about you? Can you afford it? Of course I can. I love buying diamond rings worth 8 million. Unlike you, You can only pick some Tiny diamond rings. Embarrassing yourself. You still have the nerve to want a pink diamond. Swipe the card. Didn't mom say dad was supposed to give it? Right, didn't we agree I'd give it? You're not buying it, are you? I forgot my wallet. Oh, Su Ye. If I knew you'd marry such a lowlife scum, I wouldn't have competed with you for Jia Bo back then. And you wouldn't be so embarrassed now. I don't even know how to write. Ling'er, you're the only one I love. Engaging with her was just a charade. Mr. Su How dare she compete with you for a man? Look at her, so lowly. She's not even worthy to shine your shoes. Swipe the card. I said it's my treat. By the way, I know the owner of this shop. He owes me a favor Consider this pink diamond as payment Su Ye, your husband Has no real skills, just talks big You're quite the master of that, huh You, from your social circle, have the nerve to say A forty-million diamond ring for a favor Don't you know who you are to make such bold claims The guests at your store You don't even vet them They think they belong in the same jewelry store as us. Where's your vision and class? Yes, yes, Mr. Su teaches well. Did you hear that? Get out of here. This is not a place for you. Hello, boss. Present the pink diamond to Miss Su. Compliments of the house. You mean Miss Su, right? It's Miss Su, indeed. Remember It's a gift, not a purchase Alright, alright, alright Mr. Su, you really have a lot of face Just now our boss personally called to say To give you this pink diamond Really to give this pink diamond To me Yes, that's why they say you have a lot of face This pink diamond is one of the gems in our store Where's the shop's treasure? Unlike some people who really brag too much. Without even looking at their own status. Are you sure the person you want to give it to is her? Our boss was very clear on the phone. He said it was for Miss Su, could I have heard it wrong? It's really funny. She also has the surname Su. What status do you have? What status do Miss Su and President Gao have? This pink diamond is not for them. Could it be that they're still given to you poor folks? Of course, the boss must be doing it for the Su and Gao families' sake that he gives it to my son that he gives it to me That wretched Su Ye What status does she have to compete with me? Mr. Su, I'll wrap it up for you right away Quick, catch those thieves who stole the pink diamonds! What's up? Hurry up and take them to the police station. Let me go! Do you know who we are to call us thieves? This pink diamond is a gift from the jeweler himself. You're not even worthy to lick my shoes. How dare you arrest me? Who gave you the confidence to think this pink diamond is for you? A forty-million pink diamond Even the whole Su and Gao families combined Can't match it If this pink diamond isn't for me, then who is it for? Of course, it's for Miss Su Ye How could that be? It's for that wretched woman Miss Su Mr. Qin My subordinates are blind Forgive their disrespect Please overlook it, Miss Su This pink diamond is a gift from our store, please accept it with a smile What a huge favor requires a forty-million pink diamond to repay Mr. Qin and I have been good friends for years A mere pink diamond is nothing to mention Boss Our Gao family also wants to be friends with you A low-class family like Gao's also wants to be friends with me No mirror? Use a puddle to see what you're really like. What do you mean, &quot;what kind of person&quot;? Let's go, son. You're hungry. Said he wants a kids' meal. Mm-hmm. Let's go. Goodbye, take care. Come again. Farewell. Boss, it's always the trainee salespeople. If it wasn't her who made this mess, I'd never mistake someone. You almost offended our esteemed guest this time. Do you think the store's surveillance is just for show? Get out of my sight, now. Yes, yes, yes. You did well this time, not letting some unsavory characters take advantage of the situation. This pink diamond I'll give you a bonus of 200,000. Work hard now. Dad That bitch Su Ye must be deliberately getting back at me. If it weren't for her mischief, I wouldn't have ended up at the police station with Brother Jia Bo. Our wedding, How could it be postponed? She wasn't satisfied with killing mom, now she's after me. She's bringing shame to the whole Su family. That rebellious girl has gone too far. Dad, you must stand up for me. You are Dad's only daughter. Dad will never let you be wronged. Thank you, Dad. Mom I've come to see you. Who let you come here? I came to see my mom. How dare you show up here? Do you think the Su family hasn't been humiliated enough? Get out of here right now. If you dare disrupt Ling'er and Jiabo's wedding, I won't go easy on you. Why should I leave? This is my mother's grave. You dare mention your mother? Wasn't it enough to drive her to her death? Now you want to anger me too? Yes, sister. Look at what you've done to Dad. You're so angry. Just leave now, as I say. Don't cause any more scandals. It's a disgrace to the Su family. You're an embarrassment. If you refuse to leave Beicheng, I'll announce our disownment in the newspaper. I never planned to return to the Su family anyway. Fine. I agree to the public disownment. Who called? No one. Speak. Qin Chongzhou. Don't forget our real relationship. I'll handle my own matters. It's none of your business. Good. I think the same. Don't bother me with your issues. Your temper's getting worse. Don't forget who's supporting you. Can't you just soothe me? So what if you're the top star? Qin Chongzhou hasn't come for days. Did he really get angry? Should I call him and apologize? Something's up. Mr. Su, that piece of land now It's turned into agricultural land. The Su and Gao families are in chaos now. The stocks have hit the limit down. Understood. The Su family is now in debt for billions. Just waiting for bankruptcy. To be acquired by our company. Mr. Su, your long-cherished wish Is finally coming true. Yezi, you're finally home. The Su company will be managed by you from now on. Your sister Ling'er can assist you. I'm happy just being with you and Dad. That's all I've ever wanted. What I want Has never been Just a mere Su family. Brother Jiabo, please open the door, okay? It's Ling'er. What's all the shouting for? No class at all. No wonder you're an adopted daughter who can't make the cut. Aunt, I beg you Let me see Jiabo, please He hasn't answered my calls for a whole day Your Su family is going bankrupt. What qualifications do you have to enter our Gao family's door It's all your fault that we Gao family lost hundreds of millions Get out now, or I'll call security to let the dogs loose Aunt, Jiabo and I are engaged I'm also carrying Jia Bo's child. Get rid of the illegitimate child in your womb immediately. Our Gao family will never acknowledge it. Jia Bo has already been engaged to Miss Li from the Li family. No This can't be true. What my mom said is true. Jia Bo Didn't you say your favorite person is me? Someone, hurry up and drag her away! Hey, Mr. Liu, are you the CEO of Ye Yu Group? You're willing to see me now? Only Ye Yu Group can save the Su Corporation now. You should come to the agreed place now. Okay, okay, I'm on my way. Gao Jiabo, I will make you regret this. Miss Su I've arrived. Mr. Liu Why did you bring me to the cemetery? You'll find out soon. Suling I am the president of Ye Yu Group you've been wanting to meet. You schemed against me on purpose Trying to take everything from the Su family. You bitch, I'll fight you. Let me go! If it weren't for you and Gao Jiabao Drugging and framing me, if it weren't for you pulling out My mom's oxygen tube caused her death. Everything of the Su family Has been mine for years, you just stole it for a while. How did it become yours? I am the only legitimate daughter of the Su family. That fire five years ago, Why didn't it burn You, this wretched woman, to death? If you're not dead, how could I die before you? From today on, Welcome to hell. Right I introduced Miss Li, Gao Jiabo's fiancee, to Mrs. Gao as well She seems quite pleased with Miss Li I'll kill you, why don't you just die This hurts, doesn't it No rush, we'll take our time I took everything from you back then, and I can still do it now Mommy, mommy What's wrong Mommy's fine My stomach hurts a bit. I'll be fine after a rest. Shall I call Dad? No, don't call him. Mommy's okay. Go play by yourself for a while. Mommy just needs to lie down. Daddy, come quickly! Mommy's sick. You and Mommy wait for me. I'm on my way now Suye, hold on How's the doctor? The patient has acute appendicitis The surgery was successful Just go home and recuperate Okay Thank you, doctor You're welcome If you're tired, go back and rest Mom's all set now. You take Hanghang back to rest first. The nurse will be watching, it's fine. Why? My child has to become decaying flesh in the sewer, while you, this wretched woman, get to have a happy family. I want you to pay with your life for my child. What will it take for you to abort the child? Give me 10 million. Then I'll go and abort the child. Suling Don't push it too far Do you think the illegitimate child in your belly is worth 10 million? Then I'll go to Miss Li right now And tell her I'm carrying your child Fine I agree to your demand Baby, if you're tired, go back first Mommy's all set I want to stay with Mommy. You take Hanghang back first. There's a nurse watching over her. It's okay. Dad has to go back to be with Mom. Can you stay with Grandma for now? Daddy, you must love Mommy a lot. I can tell. She's very happy when she's with you. Good Dad promises you. I've missed grandma so much, sweetheart. How about coming home with grandma? Say goodbye to daddy. Take it easy, mom. You go ahead and get busy. Take that child away from me. Who are you people? Who are you folks? No one touches my grandson! Grandson Take that old woman with us too. What are you doing? Oh no, young master! The young master and madam have been kidnapped by criminals. Your injury isn't healed yet. Be careful not to move around. Who do you think took your mom and Hanghang? I think they were targeting Hanghang. I heard from Yang Bo. They originally intended to kidnap Hanghang. It's because my mom wouldn't let go That they were taken together No Hanghang is just a child Who could he offend So They're targeting me Or you If it's you they're after Clearly, taking your mom would be more beneficial The only possibility is targeting me Could it be you have someone in mind Su Ling Alright I'll notify the police with the lead Su Ye wants your son to live Head to the Su family's Warehouse 3 right away. We'll pay any amount you want, as long as it's within our Qin family's means. But if you dare harm a hair on my grandson's head, The Qin family will not show any mercy. I'll make sure you all pay with your lives. How does that wretched Su Ye have such good fortune? To give birth to a child of the Qin family. I originally Just wanted to take your worthless life Before I leave the country. Now Let this little beast join you in hell Who made him so blind To be of the Qin family Su Ling, stop I've arrived as you demanded Pour the gasoline from the can onto yourself Then light it with a lighter What are you doing I'll count to 3 If you don't douse yourself in gasoline, I'll have someone cut a piece off this little brat. Five years ago, I let you, you wretched woman, Escape by a hair's breadth. Five years later, I can still make sure you die without a grave. Now pick up the lighter, And ignite the gasoline on your body. Can you let my son and his grandmother go? Of course. Mommy Suye Chongzhou Wretched woman It's all your fault that I'm in this state now Go to hell Suye My son Wretched woman Chongzhou My son Son I didn't expect You're Hanghang's mom Will Mommy and Daddy get better? Definitely He's so protective of you It shows he Really cares for you My son has always been aloof This is the first time I've seen him so determined to protect someone No way. How's the doctor? The surgery was a success. The stab missed. It didn't hit any vital areas. The patient just needs some rest. That's great, that's great. Grandma. We're creating a world for just the two of them every day. Why, Daddy? Haven't won over Mommy yet? Indeed This didn't hit the kidneys either Why is it not working? Let's go What's wrong? Did you catch a cold from the air conditioning being too low? Brother Chongzhou Xuerou Why are you here? I heard about your illness abroad Heading home soon. Who told you that? Uncle Qin did. Right, Uncle's back from abroad too. You must be the nurse Brother Chongzhou hired, right? Could you please get some warm water? I have something I'd like to discuss privately with Brother Chongzhou. Xuerou She's my wife. Sorry, sister. I really couldn't tell. Mainly because of your outfit, sister. It's hard to associate with Mrs. Qin. I'm a straight shooter. Sister, don't take it personally. Of course I don't mind. Sister. If you didn't call me &quot;sis,&quot; I'd think you're older than me. All wrinkled, stooped over, looking so old. Sis must be too busy with studies to take care of herself. Sorry, I speak my mind, sis, you should Won't blame me, right? Xue Rou You should go back first Your sister-in-law here is enough I I'll wipe your brother's body later Sis, you're an unmarried girl You should leave You're going to wipe my body Wipe it yourself When can Xiao Ye and Xiao Hang come over? Chongzhou Follow me to the study upstairs Mrs. Qin This is the gift I'm giving you Grandma, this is the bag my mom and I picked out for you Kid Why did you and your mom choose the same gift as me? Could it be your mom just loves to grab You can't just take what others have chosen. You bought it from us. Young one, I'm a fashion design major, you know. There's no way I'd buy the same thing as you. You shouldn't lie, kiddo. My son has great taste. He picks things Just like a fashion design pro. Same choice How shameless You just copied me Is it necessary? It's just a 3 million bag Do I need to choose the same as Miss Mo? Besides, Miss Mo You didn't Just give a 3 million bag To Mrs. Qin, right? The gift from the kids is pretty nice. Miss Mo sent it. That's way too cheap. But I clearly heard You said in the bag shop Only giving one bag as a gift. If you choose the same thing as someone else, it's fine. Only hearing half of what others say I meant to say. My son A gift bag is enough My present Another gift Miss Mo If you're reluctant to give Then don't Running out It's not good to embarrass yourself, is it? Aunt Qin Take your gift back I can't accept it I have my grandson The bag he gave me is enough I'm curious to see What valuable gift you could give This is a white jade Guanyin porcelain vase carved by Master Yu Yin It's worth hundreds of millions now Who is this Su Ye? Such a grand gesture This is a one-of-a-kind piece. It deserves a close look. I heard this Su Ye is Su Ye is my daughter-in-law. She's the CEO of Ye Yu Group. You'll regret this, you wretch. Brother Chongzhou can only be mine. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The first dance of the evening will be performed by Mr. Qin and Miss Mo. Let's go. Do you want to embarrass the Qin and Mo families here? That Mrs. Qin didn't she say Su Ye is her daughter-in-law? So why is it General Qin and Miss Mo leading the dance? Don't you see? That Ye Yu Group is essentially a foreign-funded company. How can it compare to the local magnate, the Mo family? I just thought Suye could become the empress I was about to flatter her Unexpectedly The Qin family didn't even consider her I had arranged for Chongzhou and Suye to lead the dance How did it become Mo Xuerou A woman who rose to power by unknown means Does she deserve to enter the Qin family Don't think that just because you've given birth to a son You can rest easy and be the wife of the Qin family The Qin family's door is not easy to enter. Our Su family's threshold is not low either. Sharp-tongued and fierce. Apologies, everyone. There was a minor incident just now. The first dance today should be with my wife, Su Yutong. Brother Chongzhou. It's supposed to be me leading the dance with you. The first dance. I'll only dance with my wife. As we get older, we should mind our own business. I've only been abroad for a few years, look at what's become of the Qin family. Look at your son, what have you turned him into? Does he still respect me as his father? You're the one who wants to be a pain in the ass. And you're blaming others for not respecting you? For the sake of a For a woman of unknown origin You openly offended the Mo family. Do you know that the Mo family and our family are old friends? We have a deep business relationship. Don't worry. Business matters. I'll take it seriously. Am I talking about business? Can't you see Rouer likes you? I'm already married. Divorce that Su Ye right away. So what if there's a child of dubious origin. That's all. Once you marry Rouer, You can have as many children as you want. My marriage Is not a bargaining chip for you. You Dare you betray me Dad Grandpa has handed over all the business to me You can just retire and enjoy your golden years Your son and daughter-in-law Will take good care of you You You ungrateful child Brother Chongzhou I have something to give you. That woman named Su Ye, is just feigning affection to you. Brother Chongzhou, I have something to give you. That woman named Su Ye is just feigning affection to you. If you have the guts, go to Qin Chongzhou instead of chattering here. You don't care if I go to him, right? In this world, A three-legged toad is hard to find. But two-legged men are everywhere. I wouldn't fight you over just a man. Do you think I have nothing better to do? Brother Chongzhou. You can check the authenticity of this recording. See if you're as important to others as they are to you. Hello, what's up? Are you free for dinner tonight? I'm busy today, let's reschedule. Are you busy right now? No, I'm fine. Anfeng Yip Yip. Long time no see How have you been? I heard you found Hang Hang's father Then I'm useless as a godfather. Don't worry, you'll always be You'll always be the most important person to him. Who's coming? There's no substitute for it. Let's go. I'll carry your bag. Brother Chongzhou. That Su Ye, is a fickle woman, never good. Let me keep you company, okay? Ouch. It seems these photos... You sent all these to me. Yes. But I did it for your own good. Let me tell you, Don't touch Su Ye. Or else, I won't go easy on you. Su Ye, Go to hell. Brother Chongzhou can only be mine. Check Su Ye's location. You rejected my invitation to meet him. Hello, I'd like to pay the bill. Sorry, folks, our payment system is down today. Please follow me to settle the bill. Ma'am, I'll show you to the lounge first. No, I'll wait for him here. Ma'am, our guests here I always head straight to the lounge after settling the bill. It's better for you to wait at his place. Alright. This way, please. Qin Chongzhou, what are you doing here? Did you have a good time on your date? What date? What are you talking about? Qin Chongzhou, have you gone mad? What are you planning to do? Are you here, Ye Zi? It's me. Qin Zongzhou, are you crazy? Don't forget what our relationship is. What relationship? We're husband and wife. So, We should fulfill some normal marital duties. No. Can't refuse. Madam and Young Master have instructed that you cannot leave without their orders. This is Young Master's order. Please drink the bone soup while it's hot. He plans to lock me up. Madam, you'd better... Ask the Young Master. We are just following orders. Qin Chongzhou, let me out! Wretched woman! Qin Chongzhou, let me out! Bitch You flirt with other men and still dare to cling to Brother Chongzhou Bitch, you dare to hit me Why wouldn't I dare to hit you You're shameless in seducing men and still so defiant Mo Xuerou, you're really something, whether I'm shameless or not What does it have to do with you How thick does your skin have to be To meddle in my affairs Be smart and get away from Brother Chongzhou Get out of my way Mo Xuerou What's your position To say this to me The mistress? You What's the act for, it's just a burn What's the act for Old burns from fire damage are flaring up An Feng Could you do me a favor? I'm injured. Brother Qin, if you want to start, go ahead. Maybe sister-in-law's anger might subside. The afternoon meeting is canceled. Who do you think you are? Daring to touch my woman. What do you really want, Qin Chongzhou? We're still married. Yet you're always thinking about being with this guy. Qin Chongzhou, we're getting divorced. Do you think I'll just let you do this to me? Easily getting a divorce like this? To go live happily ever after with this wild man? Qin Chongzhou. You're so full of yourself. I can leave this marriage whenever I want. You can't restrain me. Call Hao Hao's teacher now. Ask about his situation. Hello, teacher How has Hang been at school lately? Don't you know, Hang's mom? This morning, Hang's grandma came to pick him up early. Hang's already taken the child to go on vacation abroad. You're trying to use the child to threaten me. It's not a threat. I won't compromise. You're hurt. You don't deserve Ye Zi. How could Madam get hurt? Miss Mo came to see Madam. Did I ever say Not to let anyone in? I didn't dare to stop Miss Mo. Was it fear or reluctance? What did the Mo family give you? Daring to let Mo Xue Rou in? Pack up immediately. Get out of here. Leaves Are you really planning to divorce him? Yes. But I feel Qin Chongzhou won't let it go easily. He seems to really like you. If he truly liked you, how could he do hurtful things? Hanghang isn't suited to grow up in this kind of environment. Ready? How's the prep for the new product launch event going? If you're not feeling up to it, we can postpone. Don't you know me at all? I never let personal matters affect my work. Besides, Aren't you back this time for the launch event? Ye Zi, Actually, I... You take care of yourself first. Preparations for the new product launch. I'll handle it. You just need to attend. I'm at ease with you around. Let's go eat. After you come back, We haven't really had a proper gathering. It's always one thing or another. What about your arm injury? It's no big deal, just have a meal and come back for a new dressing. Dad, what should we do? That Su Ye, that wretched woman. Always wants more than she has. Clinging to Brother Chongzhou. My dear, don't worry. Su Ye is nothing but a nobody. She can't compare to my lovely daughter. But she is, after all, The CEO of Ye Yu Group. Ye Yu Group The biggest one in North City A foreign-funded enterprise Compared to our Mo family She's still a bit green This Qin Zhonghai Recently Took an interest in the development rights of an island I own If he can get you engaged to Chongzhou I'll give him the development rights Really, Dad? Dad Uncle Qin Brother Chongzhou When will he arrive? Your Uncle Qin has given a strict order. Can he still refuse to come? Why are you in such a hurry? Just as I thought. A girl grown up is hard to keep at home. If Rou'er enters the Qin family, Isn't it just like entering her own home? Dad Uncle Qin What are you talking about? I just want to know When will Brother Chongzhou come? Anfeng Why is it you? Not divorced yet? You're always thinking about other men. Qin Chongzhou, let me go! What's the matter? Are you so eager to be with that An fellow? To live together as husband and wife? Brother Chongzhou My dad and Uncle Qin are waiting for you in the private room. Brother Chongzhou My dad and Uncle Qin are meeting To discuss our marriage. Brother Chongzhou My dad and Uncle Qin are meeting this time to discuss our marriage Qin Chongzhou I think you're the one who can't wait You Ye Ye I've booked the private room Let's go Su Ye Mr. Qin I think you should take care of your personal matters first. Let's go. Brother Chongzhou My dad and Uncle Qin are still waiting in the private room. Let's go in. My dad said I'm here just to discuss the island development rights. He never mentioned anything about an engagement. Besides, I'm already married. Where's the engagement coming from? But I like you. I'm here. It's so late, go back and rest early. By the way, make sure Hang misses me. Of course, right. Be careful on your way home too. Don't worry. Go back quickly. Bye. You just have to be so lowly, entangled with that An fellow. Stirring up trouble together. Qin Chongzhou You've already discussed marriage with Mo Xuerou. What qualifications do you have to talk about me? When you need me to step down and make way for the worthy, Remember to tell me. So I don't get in the way of your good thing. Are you that eager? Stepping down and making way is possible. The son is mine. What do you mean? You want to fight me for Hanghang? He's always been a Qin. No way. Suye. You should understand. I'm not discussing this with you. Let's go to court then. I won't give Hanghang to you. Are you sure about this? You think you can beat me? Hello, Anfeng. Do you know which country Qin Chongzhou hid Hanghang in? Since Qin Chongzhou sent the child abroad, he won't let it be easily found. But you don't need to worry too much. I think he did this because he cares too much about you and the child, just in the wrong way. He cares. How can that be? Qin Chongzhou. I'm sorry I'm sorry to interrupt you two. But Even if you really want to do something. I'd have to wait until after we're divorced. Or else Otherwise, we'll look like a couple of thieves How embarrassing! Suye Brother Chongzhou I'm really sorry for spilling water on you just now Let me help you wipe it off Suye What's so great about that dead fox Why can't you just look at me Since you don't take me seriously, Qin Chongzhou I'll make you realize Suye, that dead fox What kind of lowlife is this? Tomorrow is the product launch of Ye Yu Group. You know what to do, right? I know. There's 150,000 in here. After it's done, the remaining 350,000 Will also be transferred to this card. Our product is committed to being the number one in the nation. Regarding this launch event, Does anyone have any questions? Could you explain the design concept of the new product, Mr. Su? I heard you're in love with the same woman as the Mo family's eldest daughter, is that true? I've heard rumors about your rich private life, Mr. Su. Let's ask some questions related to the product. We refuse to answer personal questions. You ungrateful daughter, you've bankrupted the Su family. You'll never have peace. Don't you dare touch me, I'm Su Ye's relative. She's a monster, disregarding all human ethics. Forcing one's own kin towards death Take them away Let everyone see, see this beast How he treats his own father With such a malicious heart What good can a person who harms their own father produce Don't be deceived by her What should President Su do now The internet is filled with us Bad reviews for our new product So much more What else? Many more insults for you These people just follow the trend without understanding I've deleted many comments, but it's endless When someone wants to attack you They don't care about the truth But this is so unfair to you No one is willing to invest in our product now Those who were eager to invest and cooperate have withdrawn These people change their faces faster than the weather changes. Hello. Mr. Su. There's someone now willing to invest in our product. He'd like to meet you at the Laifu Teahouse. It's you. I've said it before, You're nothing but a low-class scum. You're no match for me. You should check yourself in the mirror. Take a look. So, what after I've seen it? You're now infamous. You'll only bring trouble to the Qin family's legacy. Be wise and sign the paper to leave the Qin family. Is it any of your business how I affect the Qin family? Why are you so idle all the time? Mind your own business. Is it any of your concern what's between Qin Chongzhou and me? Let him talk to me himself. Shameless woman. Still sticking around at a time like this. You dare hit me. How come you started it and I can't fight back? You I said Let Qin Chongzhou talk to me himself. I don't have time to waste on you. The child Child If anything happens to Rou'er, I'll make you pay double. Rou'er How's your health? Brother Chongzhou Rou'er thought she'd never see you again. Rou'er Tell Uncle Qin How did you fall down the stairs? Rou'er Tell Dad What exactly happened With so many people around Dad will definitely get you justice Right I just had a talk with Miss Su And then She slapped me without any reason And pushed me down the stairs Su Ye What else do you have to say? Just now, when Rou'er was unconscious, you were still arguing that It was Rou'er who wanted to push you down, but accidentally fell herself Rou'er is so kind, how could she Do such a thing You pushed her down and that's not enough You even made up these vicious words to slander her reputation Chongzhou Our two families have been friends for generations You still defend this A woman with a heart of venom? Regardless, She's still a part of the Qin family. I've said what needs to be said. It's Mo Xuerou herself Ah, Chongzhou brother, my head hurts so much. Can't you see Rou'er has a headache? You Don't even listen to me now? Do you want the Mo family to sue this wretched woman? You're the one who'd take care of Rou'er. If you don't believe me, you can check the surveillance. I've already checked the surveillance at Fuc Lai Tea House. It's been tampered with, impossible to trace. You're still talking about surveillance, clearly trying to divert suspicion. Su Ye, how can you be so vicious? What evidence do you have to prove that I destroyed the surveillance? Sabotaging the surveillance would benefit you the most. According to you, it would also be quite beneficial for Mo Xuerou. Nonsense. The kind of thing you're talking about could never happen. We all know what kind of person Rou'er is. Exactly. I've seen Rou'er grow up. I know her situation best. She would never do such a thing. It's you who... Keep trying to get close to the Qin family A woman who got pregnant out of wedlock What kind of good person could she be Chongzhou Divorce her immediately Our Qin family absolutely won't allow such a woman To set foot in our home Dad I will handle these matters Chongzhou, are you still defending this vixen? Brother Chongzhou Is it about Rou'er That troubles Brother Chongzhou It's all Rou'er's fault for not taking care of herself Miss Mo truly excels in the art of tea Su Ye Do you only feel happy if Rou'er is dead Mr. Mo, Miss Mo Since the surveillance at the Laifu Tea House is down, I can provide you With a new surveillance system The camera caught Miss Mo pushing me clearly. The camera caught Miss Mo pushing me clearly. Impossible. Where else is there surveillance besides the Laifu Tea House? I've checked all the surveillance. You really went through a lot, Mr. Mo. Where is the surveillance? There's a mini camera in here. You even bring a camera when you come out with me? I had no choice. Miss Mo's subtle moves are too numerous to guard against. As the saying goes, caution ensures safety. It seems Miss Mo has not disappointed me. I will hand this over to the police. Once verified, I will sue Miss Mo for attempted murder. Suye. Give me the hidden camera. What do you want to do? I want to defend Mo Xuerou. Mo Yunshan is not as simple as you think. I'm doing this to protect you. Protect me? Qin Chongzhou, that's enough. Your families have been close for generations, with such tight business ties. It seems Mo Xuerou is still devoted to you. You wouldn't go against the Mo family for me, would you? Su Ye You don't trust me. I only trust myself. Uncle Qin, I didn't mean it. It's all Su Ye's fault, that wretched woman, she's always flirting around, and she won't let go of Brother Chongzhou. I was just bewitched for a moment. Yes, Old Qin, The only fault lies with this girl, she's too fond of Chongzhou. You see, our families have been close for generations, and we do a lot of business together. I have only this one daughter. You You can't just stand by and do nothing! Old Mo, trust me. I know that girl, Rou'er. She had no choice but to do what she did. I'll go find this Su Ye. And get some answers. Go on. How much do you want to leave Rou'er alone? Suing her won't do you any good. The bond between the Qin and Mo families is unbreakable. You can't sow discord with just a few words. Mr. Qin I think you've misunderstood. The relationship between the Qin and Mo families I don't care about it. What do you mean? Aren't you afraid of Chongzhou marrying Rou'er? If they want to get married, let them. I can sign the divorce papers anytime. All talk and no action Then why don't you sign the divorce agreement? Mr. Qin, please get your facts straight It's Qin Chongzhou who doesn't want the divorce I'd really like to ask Mr. Qin To keep his son in check Don't blame others when you can't control your own You Qin Chongzhou, what do you really want? You say I'm the one who's been clinging to you I refuse to divorce. Am I wrong? You're right. I'm the one clinging to you. Qin Chongzhou, let me go! Put me down! Qin Chongzhou, what are you doing? Su Ye, behave yourself. Qin Chongzhou, where are you taking me? Home. Driver Drive It's Mr. Qin Qin Chongzhou, let me go, don't be too outrageous Wait, I'll show you What real outrageousness is Qin Chongzhou Why is it you So what if it's me Where is Qin Chongzhou You want him to give you this. How did you get it from him? Of course, it was given to me by Brother Chongzhou. Moreover, He has already opened the mini program and viewed it. The video has not been backed up. He was so impatient to give this thing to you. I told you a long time ago that Brother Chongzhou and I grew up together as childhood sweethearts. Who do you think you are? Daring to compete with me? If it weren't for his first son, He would have divorced you long ago. Thinking you're a goddess? How much he cares about you. It's really laughable. Brother Chongzhou, You're done with the meeting. Try the love lunch I made for you. Okay Qin Chongzhou All this time You've been acting with me, haven't you? Okay Very well I wish you a harmonious marriage for a hundred years Stop drinking Men Men are all no good Okay Let me, the bad guy, take you back, shall I? Give her back to me. If I remember correctly, you're about to divorce. Mr. Qin, what's the drama now? We won't divorce. Then what's with you and Mo Xuerou being seen together in public? Do you think everyone's blind? Our matters are none of your business. No need to explain to you. Besides, for now at least, Suye is still with me. Qin Chongzhou I don't need your fake kindness here. Remember, It's me, Suye, who doesn't want you. An Feng Let's go. You vile woman, talking about divorce. Still shamelessly seducing Brother Chongzhou behind the scenes I seduced Qin Chongzhou Stop pretending Brother Chongzhou didn't leave here all night So where was he then Qin Chongzhou didn't leave all night Su Ye You can only be mine Miss Mo It's only been said since ancient times The wife catches the mistress But I've never heard of a mistress catching the wife As long as I don't divorce Qin Chongzhou You'll always be a mistress who can't make it to the table So please keep a low profile Su Ye, you bitch I'm going to kill you Dad, that Su guy Is just too much Don't worry, child Dad has already given the development rights of the island to the Qin family. Chongzhou will definitely marry you. But I feel that Brother Chongzhou is quite special to her. Then we'll make sure she never recovers. There was an unexpected situation at the last press conference. It caused many partners to not have a better understanding of our product. Let's welcome our CEO, Mr. Su, to the stage for his speech Our brand is a high-end one The new products we're launching aim to be the best in the nation Any questions, everyone? Look at Mr. Su's confident demeanor The last press conference must have been a baseless accusation Indeed Does someone like Boss Su need to treat her father like that? Judging by her face, she doesn't seem like that kind of person. Someone must have caused trouble at the last press conference. It's all my fault, please don't hit me anymore. I was wrong. Can you forgive me? I promise I won't go against you again. She actually hit her own father. I almost got deceived by her innocent face. So vicious in private. Right That's disgusting People like him don't deserve to be in our North City He's tarnishing our reputation Are you sure I made the call? I was wrong, please forgive Dad Actually, I kind of wish I had made it You want money again? Damn it, do you think I'm a bank? Mo's such a huge enterprise, 5 million is nothing It's just a drop in the ocean Boss Mo Just consider it a good deed Otherwise I'll be killed by those loan sharks No way Then don't blame me for telling the press It was you who asked me to sabotage Ye Yu Group's press conference This time, I'll give you 5 million But You need to do something for me. What is it? Stop hitting me. Help! Just say that your injuries were from being beaten by your despicable daughter. You're such an embarrassment. If you refuse to leave North City, I'll announce in the newspaper that I disown you. What bad luck to have a father like you. This is a beast. It's an insult to beasts to compare with them. So disgusting. The Mo family is no better. Right. Impossible. This is my dad's office. How do you have surveillance footage? Of course, Qin Chongzhou gave it to me. Qin Chongzhou Impossible Did you get close to me and my dad Just to plant surveillance in his office Why are you here To mock me Of course not I've found solid evidence of Moyun Mountain's money laundering and shorting domestic companies What What does this have to do with me I won't let Mo Yunshan and Mo Xuerou have any chance to deal with you You mean I sent the baby abroad with mom for his safety Because I found many Mo family members in the Qin family I'm not avoiding you And I found out Mo Yunshan will use Su Changsheng to get at you Then why didn't you tell me earlier I wasn't sure about the company Are there any from the Mo family? No. My dad couldn't have done this. Your mom found out about the illegitimate child your dad has abroad. To transfer all the money to his son, he's planning to drag you and your mom, along with the entire Qin family, down as scapegoats. I don't believe it, I don't believe it. You're just making this up because you've been charmed by this wretched woman. Right? It's all your fault! Drag her away. Let me go! Let me go! Daddy, Mommy, I miss you so much! Did you have fun with Grandma abroad? Yes, I did. He had fun, but I'm exhausted. Oh, I'm getting old, not as good as before. Mom, you're not old at all. Thanks, Mom The baby's been so well-behaved Mom doesn't know we sent her and Hang out to keep them safe from the Mo family She probably thinks we're creating a romantic world for us just the two of us Let's go talk You brought me here on purpose He's my savior If it weren't for that fire, I wouldn't have escaped. Let's go. I thought you two were really getting a divorce. What? You wanted us to divorce, huh? Shut up. By the way, I'm leaving tomorrow. Will you come to the airport to see me off? Why are you leaving so soon? I've done everything I needed to do. It's time to go back No, Anfeng's plane is about to take off I have to get to the airport No way You can only watch me