- [Deeply Voice] This video Click on the link in the description below to get an amazing 68% off a two year plan. Also commemorating the Get your new character pins and Russian revolution Link down below. Hey Jimmy, it's the 1800s, Why don't you get out there Gee whiz mum, thanks. This place is amazing. Where am I? Why you're in France, my boy. Here we come up with wacky Liberty, egality, fraternity. Whoa! Welcome to the United Kingdom. Here, we invented the train. Alllllll aboard. Holy smokes. You're in a German factory, my friend. Here, we harness fire and coal to create all these sexy lederhosen. This is incredible. I can't wait to see Where am I? You're in Russia. Have I gone back in time? No, this is just how it is. Are you a farmer? Worse, technically, my landlord owns me which makes me a serf. I'm scared. You should be because I and you look pretty tasty. Hey Jimmy, how were your travels? I hate you. (soft melodic music) Russia, in the 19th century. Feudal, underdeveloped While the rest of Europe and improving their citizen's lives. Russia's rulers were taking My Lord, we're falling It's time to industrialize. Give the people rights (loud bomb exploding) Russian Tsars had no like liberty and modernization because they were too busy having the time of their lives while the serfs were breaking the Tsars held all the power and they didn't have to listen to anyone. Wanna run the country like while the rest of your pack paces humanitarian and Wanna keep the people on educated so they don't get any ideas? There's no one to stop you. Wanna keep exporting grain even when there's a massive famine causing hundreds of thousands to die? That is your God given right. While all of this was great for the Tsar. If you were literally anybody because Russia was falling behind. If they were to keep up with Europe they'd need a strong Oh, look here comes one now. Hey everyone, it's me and I've got some big news. I'm releasing you all from your serfdom. You're all free. (crow cheering loudly) Yep, I'm the best. Oh, there is one thing though. I spoke to your local lords and they weren't happy about So as a compromise, you're all in near impossible amount of Expect your lives to barely change. Okay, bye. Now, I know what you're thinking. This Tsar Alexander the second He's trying to reform the country and get Russia on the right path. Everyone must love this guy, right, wrong. Why does one man get to decide fate of This whole system is dumped. Somebody should do something. Like what? Like kill the Tsar. You're gonna kill the Tsar? Well me, no, I'm busy. I was kind of hoping you'd do it, okay. See the people love me. They're throwing flowers, confetti and high-grade explosives. (bomb exploding loudly) Okay Nicholas, your of being blown up by a terrorist and he's not looking too hot. So we're gonna go say our goodbyes, okay? No, it'll be too scary for him. Nonsense, it won't be scary at all. We're just gonna say a Boy, look at me. The people did this to me and See it wasn't scary at all. So Alexander the second was dead, but luckily they had another Alexander the third and had weakened the Tsar's authority. Russia was massive. And as a result had Non Russians more interested than in loving me, isn't it great? So much beautiful culture and (bomb exploding loudly) Alexander thought all these minorities should be a little more Russian So he repressed religious minorities. He repressed non Russians. He introduced the Okhrana. A secret police force that repressed anybody who thought If Alexander the second Alexander the third was Now that's how you run a country. Hey dad. Oh great, it's my son Nicholas, who I like to call a girly girl because he's so weak and pathetic. When are you gonna grow up? You still look like a girly girl to me. But dad, I grew a beard. Yeah, an ugly girly girl beard. (crying loudly) If Nicholas was to one day be Tsar. He needed his dad to teach But his dad instead suggested that Nicholas goes somewhere else. So Nicholas went to Japan, Had his head sliced off by a Now, will you teach me how to rule? I suppose it's time. Okay, there's a lot becoming Tsar, uh oh, what? I've got kidney inflammation. Oh no. Upon his father's death, Nicholas the second ascended He wasn't a reformer like his grandfather nor was he a repressor like his dad. Nicholas was Nicholas. Timid, easily swayed and more interested in doing or this or this. He wasn't ready to rule. And he himself admitted it saying I'm not yet ready to be Tsar. I know nothing of the business of ruling. Bit of an awkward time to bring it up. However, Nicholas firmly believed that he was chosen by God And while he doubted his ability to rule, he was gonna give it his best shot. And hey, who knows? Maybe he wouldn't be so bad after all. To get things off to a good start. Nicholas promised free pretzels and beer to a huge crowd in Moscow So enticing a proposition that the ensuing stampede What the hell happened? We're not sure, but you're scheduled to go party with the Shouldn't I stay here out When have Russian Tsars (upbeat music) Nicholas's decision to immediately tarnished his image. Some were calling him Nicholas the bloody. The Tsars had been partying hard at the expense of the that emancipated the serfs but failed to lift them out of poverty. They used their secret police to crack down on anyone and they had failed to modernize Something the rest of over a century ago. The rule of the Tsars was and more and more Russians began wondering if there was a better way. For many, the solution was simple. Just look to the West, and constitutional monarchies galore. But a small growing group rejected that for an even better idea, a little something they called communism. Take Vladimir Lenin a intelligent member of Russia's middle-class and also a massive ill tempered jerk. If you disagreed with him about anything he wasn't afraid to call you out. You fat headed simple-minded Tenderheart Bear is a far superior care bear to Bedtime Bear. (crying loudly) And he was no stranger to His older brother was executed for plotting to kill the Tsar and Lenin himself was for participating in a student protest. But how did Lenin go from being a middle-class nerd to the arbiter of socialist divinity? Well, to tell that story, we first need to go back a few decades to when a man named Karl Marx, wrote a manifesto is a system where by the stinky British oppressed and exploded the working masses and that only through class warfare, could the workers rise up and Now go back forward a few decades to Lenin reading that But publicly admitting you loved Marx and not Russia's big daddy would get you the cruelest exile to Siberia. Enjoy exile where you'll chill around town and secretly Hey, that doesn't sound so bad. And your mother-in-law's Once Lenin finished his stint in Siberia. He left Russia for Europe where he was free to hang out and talk about how great communism was. Now today, you might and think of this. (dramatic orchestral music) But that's not how intellectuals living under a Tsarist regime saw it. To them, communism promised the land where all were equal, where and even people like you So Lenin joined a party living in Europe and he founded a communist newsletter that was smuggled into Russia to try to radicalize the people. However, not everyone agreed with Lenin. In fact, they disagreed and Lenin was so uncompromising that he caused a split in the party. During one conference, a and Lenin was unwilling to give an inch. You pig ignorant, half cereal is a soup. Listen, Lenin, you're a smart guy, but you have no idea what We're out of here. All in favor of cereal being a soup. Hey, would you look at So Lenin set up his own He called the Majority or Bolshevik if you're speaking Russian and the other faction became known as the Minority or Menshevik. And oddly, the majority and the minority in the Majority. The Mensheviks were less radical. Whereas Lenin wanted the and his uncompromising ideas. And if you weren't loyal well then you're gonna Mensheviks worried that Lenin's attitude could lead to a one-man dictatorship, but come up, does this guy For now Lenin remained in Europe, writing his socialist newspaper and impatiently awaiting an opportunity to overthrow the Tsar and bring Cool, a free hat. Who the heck are you? I'm definitely not a Russian spying on Marxists. Oh crap, I don't want Then you, my friend should use NordVPN. Do you like having your identity stolen? If yes, you need therapy. If no, you need NordVPN. NordVPN has thousands of super that you can connect to, to keep you and your data It comes with a 30 day and is now faster and with its brand new NordLynx technology. Have you quarantine binged all of your favorite shows on Netflix? Well, with NordVPN, you can Or is one of the greatest still banned in your country? I think you get the point. You can now get NorthVPN for only 3.71 per month, So click on nordvpn.com/oversimplified in the description below That's nordvpn.com/oversimplified. And as always, you'll be (speaking in foreign language) Now, where was I? Oh yeah, a timid easily swayed Tsar, a massive ill tempered jerk impatiently awaiting a And revolution was coming, but not in the way Lenin thought. Back in St. Petersburg. One of the Tsar's most skilled knew the country finally with the rest of Europe. Hey Nick, we really got to industrialize. Get more factories and make some I don't know, Won't that change the Maybe, hey isn't it past your bedtime? But I haven't had my Will you snuggle me? Nicholas thought modernization was boring. But he let Sergei do his thing and do his thing he did. He borrowed some money and got And you know what sexy dirt poor, sexy workers. Long hours, low wages, filthy sleep in over crowded dormitories with all your stinky worker friends. Get your arms ripped off in conditions were terrible. But this growing working class wasn't about to take it lying down. They started to do what Despite Sergei's efforts, people in Russia still weren't happy. Peasants were still poor, And now the workers wanted And the problem with being an autocrat is that when everyone's unhappy there's only person to blame, you. The people hate me, what do I do? Ooh, I know, why don't we find a weak and pathetic nation to go to war with. We'll win easily and Why don't we just try As luck would have it. An opportunity for war was Russia wanted to expand into Northern China and But Japan didn't really want war. So they proposed an idea Hey man, we'll let you do If you let us do our thing in Korea. I don't think so. We've got the largest army in I'm the Emperor of Japan, Whoa, cool. Nicholas and the boys didn't So they felt they could push Japan around. But little did they know Japan had been rapidly militarizing. And when they launched a surprise attack on a Russian fleet at Port Nicholas hoped it was an and regain the support of the people. Nobody seriously thought could defeat a European superpower. And the Russian people were Hey everyone, we're at war with Japan. (crowd cheering loudly) (whispering quietly) Hey everyone, we're losing the war. (crowd booing loudly) The Japanese won, an embarrassing defeat for Tsar Nicholas. Russia had enough problems but now it had been The public were outraged, Nicholas needed snuggles The tension was rising rapidly and Russia was on the verge of revolution. All it needed was one disaster And that disaster would from an unlikely source a handsome Orthodox Father Gapon was leading to the winter palace. But this wasn't some violent uprising, it was a peaceful protest. They wanted to deliver which simply asked for more freedom and better working conditions. The protest was actually that the Marxist thought Hey Nicholas, some priest is It says here they wanna A peaceful petitioning priest, Nicholas had actually left and in his place they brought ordered to stop Father Gapon Hello good, sir and long lived the Tsar. Please, allow me to pass towards our dear father Good day to you to please, allow us to respond by opening fire. (gun fired loudly) What began as a peaceful Imperial soldiers opened Around 200 civilians died All they wanted was the to improve their lives. Instead they were met with bullets. Nicholas didn't personally but as an autocrat, he got the blame. The event became known as Bloody Sunday and Nicholas's reputation plummeted. Strikes erupted across the empire, workers demands increased, liberals demanded political power, peasants demanded lamd. The country was out of control and the 1905 revolution had begun. Listen Nicholas peasants seizing my land and murdering my family, I can tolerate, but illegally chopping and the worse I treat my I don't get it. Everyone relax, as long as the there's nothing to worry about. Sir, the sailors are starting to mutiny. Well, my life just sucks. With Russia still losing to the Japanese unrest was growing in the military. And some sailors had even Having the people against but if the military joined To make matters worse, in October workers in Marxists began setting up local elected that coordinated strikes Sergei could see the writing on the wall. Things were going south fast and he needed a big idea to save the Tsar. And luckily he had just that. You see all these angry people from different parts of society weren't really working together. Meaning there was a weakness to exploit. Sergei wrote a manifesto an elected assembly called the Duma. It took some convincing but eventually Nicholas and have his laws approved Hey liberals, here's your We certainly are. But what about these guys? Aren't you gonna give them what they want? Oh goodness no. I was just gonna kill them. With the liberal satisfied and after ending the war with Japan. The Tsar thousands of troops home who then dismantled the Soviets, arrested their leaders and crushed the peasant And how about that pesky parliament Nicholas had agreed to share power with? Well, he then wrote a bunch of new laws which basically said, hey, and how you guys were Slight change of plan. Actually, I'm gonna do And you guys are gonna shut up. What, the people won't stand for this. People, what people? This is why people don't like you. And just like that Nicholas had but wait a revolution in Well Lenin and his communist He tried desperately to but all he could do was watch as the movements failed to organize the liberal sold out the poor and the Tsar played the people. Furious, he believed Russia for a real revolution. From now on, he felt the only way left was an armed revolution by the workers. Watching the events of 1905 unfold Lenin learnt a lot. The Tsar however, would prove After the 1905 revolution had failed. The Tsars new top man was Pyotr Stolypin and he had big ideas to Step one, reform agriculture this'll make the peasants love you. And step two, we'll To discourage any more revolutionary ideas Stolypin began to crack down even harder on the Tsar's opponents and thousands were sentenced to death. The news even earned Stolypin's Necktie, I don't get it. Oh, I see. 'Cause it goes around my But despite depression were also being made even began to improve. This a problem for Lenin. If the people weren't suffering then they wouldn't support a revolution. Still in exile and lacking funds, the Bolsheviks simply weren't Luckily it was around this time that Lenin met an with your second favorite Joseph Stalin. Lenin and Stalin met at in Finland and Lenin liked Stalin because he was a real go getter and was great at fundraising and by fundraising I extorting, bribing, prison breaking, stealing, bank raiding, executioning and stealing again. He's Stalin the Mensheviks aren't so hot in all this stealing, So the next time you do a big Okay, quietly, got it. (guns firing loudly) If this isn't quiet, I Stalin's wacky antics eventually but he had established himself However, no amount of Bolshevik balls could stop what was happening. The Russian economy was making a recovery. For the Tsar, things were looking up. This is great. All Nicholas has to do is sit Hey everyone, big news. I'd like to introduce you He's a crazy, drunken, beardy, horny, scandal ridden magic wizard, man. And he smells like a goat. We're screwed. Rasputin, a dirt poor peasant But un-like all the Rasputin had holy healing powers. And when this holy mystic people began to notice. He quickly became famous and word this mystery made its way to the royal palace. The appearance of a holy homeless healer was of great interest to As far as worlds go, but they were just in bred enough for their son Alexe to get hemophilia or in layman's terms, mama Know Rasputin could heal people, in 1906, Alexandra asked for Rasputin to come and see if he could cure their son and crazy as it sounds possibly by taking him off Having seemingly done the impossible Rasputin became very, very but having a crazy homeless wasn't a good look for the Tsar Not only was he a big fan of alcohol but he'd also throw these crazy parties with Russian nobility. (beeping loudly) And nobody knew how the Initially the press were banned from talking about Rasputin but eventually the ban was lifted and the tabloids went to town. The whole thing was a huge scandal and everyone was freaked out that this guy was influencing the Tsar and his wife. Nicholas could have spent improving his image. Instead he spent it doing this, but as weird as the so long as the economy and the people's lives maybe Nick would be okay. Maybe there would be no more revolutions. Maybe this video could even end right here or maybe things were about You see the years 1914, and that means it's for World War One. (dramatic music)