male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; the Stanley, reaching the world with Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: Fear and race from the very Think about this, the first God and the first man was like this: man, in that conversation And all down through people have been I just have fear. I am anxious.&quot; And all through God's response has Do not be afraid.&quot; In the New Testament, again, &quot;Do not be afraid.&quot; For example, when the he said, about the coming of &quot;Do not be afraid.&quot; To Joseph, &quot;Do not be afraid.&quot; To John the Baptist's father, When Jesus was speaking to the Mount, He said to them &quot;Don't be anxious Three times He said Don't be afraid.&quot; To the apostles out on the scared to death, He said to The apostle Paul, at undergoing real &quot;Do not be afraid anymore.&quot; And I was so glad he had that realize that the apostle Paul, of anxiety and fear. &quot;Do not be afraid John the Beloved, who at the vision of the Lord Jesus and he is absolutely petrified And what did He say to him, over and touched him and He And what is the admonition God said through the apostle verse 7, He said, &quot;I have not of power and of love The apostle Paul, anxious about anything.&quot; And anxiety is simply &quot;Don't be anxious about by prayer and supplication &quot;let your requests be All through the scriptures, afraid, not to be as His children, we That does not mean that for that moment--for example, if a revolver in your face, and anxiety at that moment. Now, what I want to deal with little bit more And that is, I want to deal we're not even aware of. And even when we are we can't put our finger on why cropping up in our life. And what's their origin? So, I want you to to Isaiah chapter 41. This is one of those verses that underline, put a whatever you need to do because anchors--those anchor texts should be very much aware of, we're going to talk and that is: the source of our when fearful, the source when fearful or anxious. And anxiety is simply It may be the fear the next day or the next the next year, And so, Isaiah chapter 41. Look, if you will, He says, &quot;Do not do not anxiously look I will strengthen you, surely I will uphold you with My righteous right hand.&quot; Here is an awesome promise of going through fear and anxiety. And listen to what He says. He says, &quot;Do not be afraid.&quot; But secondly, He gives us a that, oftentimes, He says, &quot;Do not Now, that is one of Satan's most And that is to get looking at our circumstances, The more we look at them, So that we are a oftentimes, the and that is, trying to evaluate and what might happen, what do they say will He says, &quot;Don't look I'm your God. I'll help you. I'll uphold you with My Now, what I want to do is I want of fear and anxiety. Well, let's look And the first one is this: a What happens is there's a tape to you--somewhere back that is, &quot;You're inadequate. You can't do it. You're not going Don't even try.&quot; And what happens is our when we get this And what happens is, instead successful, that you can do it, you're going to your imagination plays this an old tape, and says, &quot;No, you can't do that. Some other people And before long, instead successful to you begin to imagine And then that sets up a whole come up with all the reasons it'll work and that you can do And so what happens is you That has nothing It is something And we don't realize how thinking that is in error. And so, we feel inadequate to certain things, and especially So, often, those opportunities because we don't feel adequate. A second, I think, subtle our fears and anxieties is that we can reach the standard And all of us have You have moral standards, your work as far as your and some of you are very job no matter what, And so, you've set very Well, if you set standards that God you set them for yourself, that are beyond our capacity. And what we do is we look around achieving and what they are &quot;Well, if I--they can do And what happens is, we set ourselves, then we Then we go through life trying and, you know, &quot;I've got and I've got to prove it others. And what are they going to and if I don't achieve?&quot; And so, we live with be able to measure up. Well, there's a third, I these things, and that of a sense of guilt. And that is, if people that somewhere along the way, somehow God's displeased, And you see, that kind of person type of situation in begin to succeed in life! And just over and over and They begin to succeed to move on, and what happens? Right when they're just about they have a setback. Well, they sort of they'll keep moving on again. And next time you see Why? Psychologically &quot;I don't deserve to succeed.&quot; Why don't you &quot;Well, back yonder in my I was born that way. This is my background, and the--or, &quot;I was told Or, &quot;This is what I did And it's amazing how many people they don't feel They just don't feel Well, what is the grace of God? The grace of God is the goodness of God to us, not because we for us does not pour out upon us but on the basis And His character says He And so there's That is no way to live. But you see, these are lot of our fears and anxieties. Now, that's not all of Let me just mention one that we grew up with. And let me just For example, attitudes that we that all of us were born with And it's been running What's on those tapes? Well, I'll tell you It's a lifelong tape. Everything that came the wonderful things that father said to you early All the things on there heard, they're on there. All the ways that you were up, that's on there. All the abuse you took, hardships, trials, all of that stuff's on the tape. Now, the difference is that But I'm here to tell you there's Now, I can't illustrate yours me to do that, so I'll just So, let me give you an example. When I was coming along, my father died when I was And so, my mother and I sixteen years of my life. That certainly did not One thing my mother would say to &quot;Now, don't you go Don't play in the street. Don't get run over. Don't fall down. Don't work too hard.&quot; And the message don't, don't, don't, don't.&quot; Now, I know what her &quot;I want to take care of Charles And I'm sure that in she--I was not only In other words, I and so she didn't didn't want me to work too that, and the other. &quot;Don't play rough now. If you all are going to play No other way to play but rough. And so, but that's And then of course, &quot;Now, you don't Mmm, you don't want to fail God. You just want to You don't want to fail God.&quot; Now, those were messages I Now, I got a lot of And so, what did that do for me? Because you see, if it came It wasn't a question of whether not, it got on there. I didn't ask to be It was something I caught some things, then Every single one of us has been we didn't ask for, too young to going on, but it was going on. And so, the tape was playing. What was the tape? &quot;Don't take any risks in life. Oh, don't take any risks. Somebody may take You may get killed. Mmm, don't do that.&quot; And so, what happened? The tape is, Don't be bold. Just be real careful. Watch out. People'll take advantage of you. Tape going on and on and on. One of the tapes that when you don't have &quot;You don't have much. Be careful with what you have. Be very careful If you lose it, you One wonderful thing is what watching my mom give when she And somehow that &quot;You don't want to get in debt. And you don't want to spend--you And she would make me give which was a good idea. And the very idea of absolutely a horrifying thing. It would never have been done. No matter what you you just didn't do it. So, listen, on that tape, while caused me some problems, there things on that tape. That's a whole Some wonderful things on ever, ever want to But, the causes of and then of &quot;You don't want to fail God.&quot; Then what's the &quot;Watch out! Watch out. Be careful. Don't be doing anything doing when Jesus comes.&quot; And so, what happens? I grew up with And these tapes are, Watch out for God. Or be careful what you Now, what I want you to a way to deal with this. But if you don't realize you've identify it, then So, let's look, at what are the consequences thought processes that are surface, just waiting to be erupts in fear and anxiety? Well, there are For example, when a oftentimes their judgment is decisions because they Why? Because permeating all their reasoning is &quot;But suppose this But if this and what if?&quot; Secondly, those are not as productive as they that their minds are so clouded are not productive Which brings me to and that's procrastination. See, a person who's a waits until they think they can And so, because they and the feelings of not of them, and the feelings of the they don't measure I see it over and over and over A person who is a they're waiting until And so, there's what happens. They had rather wait and they'd rather get themselves in oftentimes, maybe even lose of not being able to do it their own set of Oftentimes, the result is That is, &quot;Everybody's after me. Somebody's trying They don't like me. All of that is a result of what? Just laying down in there just waiting for something a person to fear that. And so, when you and I begin think about other and how it affects them. Some people, this is pills, and all the rest, why? They just live in fear, and to have something to get Well, the thing--the way to get anxieties is to find out the them on a--in a godly fashion, bottle, whether it's But that is Think about this, if you're life, every time you get on God, what's the The tape's going to Why should God Look at your life. And what happens? You get up and you think, &quot;Why Because you keep which has the root causes of We need to get rid Get rid of it! You never deal on the inside until you Now, how do we overcome these Well, the first Listen, recognize Don't deny that you're anxious. You say, &quot;Well, you know, I'm a I trust God and I Or I could say, &quot;I'm a pastor, and no anxieties in life.&quot; Well, that would be a lie have to face it But I think God is in the And so, I want to share it with First of all, I've Now, listen to this carefully. You see, if you don't, listen, fearful or anxious What is it? You say, &quot;Well, Well, here's the The next time you feel anxious ask yourself the &quot;Now what's going on? What's going on around me? What do I think of--is it something I heard? Was it a telephone call? Was it something I saw? What's ignited this? Is it something What's going on around me so that caused me to feel If I can identify it, then If I don't identify it, the same old problem, So, first of all, I need to identify what's going The second thing, is my relationship to Christ. My friend, if you don't have a you're going to live with life because you The only thing that is life is Jesus Christ. He is the only So, if I'm going to deal with my life, I must deal with my because He says, &quot;It is and after this the judgment.&quot; And He says, &quot;Whatever a So I could think of a whole lot me lots of anxiety and fear. And if you face the truth, you and a reason to be anxious if Jesus Christ, the Son of God in order to save you. So, to receive Him by knowing that my past, present, and future, I am His grace, not by performance. Absolutely secure. First of all, recognize of fear and identify it. Secondly, your be sure that's right. What's number three? Just jot it down, the recorder. What you want to do is, once you keep creeping up, what &quot;All right, that's the Now, what is the root? Where did that tape come from? How did it get recorded?&quot; Listen, do you realize it may be said and put on your tape, mother put on that tape? It may be something that a It may be something that your you work with but, listen, that listen, it got on the tape! And when you recognize and trace it back to its you can just take that and tear it to shreds. &quot;I reject that tape. I don't have to play Listen, does that mean No, it means the you can say, &quot;I don't That's just the I tore that--forget that, I'm not listening to that.&quot; Which leads me to next step, and Now, there have been times crying out to God about suddenly be overwhelmed Now, you know, when it's like a cloud, But I discovered this: &quot;Father, I want to thank You said, 'I've not given you the I rebuke that in the I reject this feeling and And I'm here to tell you it Why? Because you have taken authority God and is straight And what he's trying in your relationship to God. You have the power and the to rebuke and that does not come from God. You do not have to So, what you do is, When it starts Cut it off. The next step is to What is the anchor? Now, look at this. All of us need, at those scriptural anchors we facing fears and anxieties. Now, listen to this. Let's say this is your facing some fear or anxiety. Look at this. &quot;Do not fear, for Who's with you? The Almighty, He says, &quot;I'm with you.&quot; How long is He Every moment, every step of &quot;Do not fear, I am with you; do Don't do it! Listen to this next Listen, your circumstances &quot;Don't look around. Nobody can do anything They may have I'm going to turn it It doesn't make any difference.&quot; He says, &quot;Don't I'm your God. They're not your god. She's not your god. Nobody can control &quot;Do not anxiously I am your God.&quot; Next phrase: &quot;I Who is that? That's the omnipotent God who every circumstance &quot;I with strengthen you, Now listen, He Whatever you are facing, There I am. I'm going to help Then He says: &quot;I will uphold you In the scriptures listen, of God's willingness situation and circumstance. And He says, &quot;I'm I am reliable and faithful God. I'll strengthen you. I'll undergird you. Whatever you need, I Now, my friend, how can you He says, &quot;I'm with you. Strengthen you, uphold you Reach for the anchor. But, listen, get yourself an to be fearful or afraid. But if you haven't, go back to this forty first &quot;Okay God, here's what What does He want to do? The next thing I want to say, attention, because When I look around, I and I reach for the anchor. All of a sudden, My eye has moved from that to that which makes me secure. I've refocused my attention upon And what happens? Immediately my faith Why? Because I am reminded that I'm your God. I'll help you, strengthen you. I'll uphold you with my And what happens? It is amazing how fears and in the presence of You do not have to be anxious. And listen carefully, And no one can make you anxious. You and I have to And you and I have Christ living us, to encourage us. And He says, &quot;If you'll dwell securely and you because I am your God.&quot;