Hey, it's me, Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. You read the title of you know what's about to happen. Here's the deal though. This is not some dude trying This is me trying to that I've wanted to What happens when a baseball And there's very specific reasons This is a Smarter Every Day more about that later. When I was a kid I did a &quot;Nolan Ryan Strikeout King.&quot; And I learned that in 1974, Nolan Ryan, threw the first recorded baseball After learning about that pitch, every time I stepped onto the field, I thought about the ballistics of When I went forward into school, I started learning about aerodynamics math associated with all this stuff. And I started to learn and I fell in love how things fly through the air as a part of my job, as a I developed a pretty intimate This is me in a Anyway, here's the deal. If you were to draw a Venn aerodynamics, baseball, right in the center of all that -- So today's video had I have to know what happens the speed of sound. Like, does the cover rip off What exactly happens when Let's go learn and get [Guitar theme music] In an earlier episode of we made a golf ball air cannon. We put a golf ball in there, and put tape over the end. We use the vacuum pump to of a barrel. When we release that pressure, down the barrel, and exit at an What we want to do here is Only at a much larger scale. The baseball is 1.6 times and three times as heavy. Mach One is 767 So in order to do this, we have to do some serious engineering. So I got some buddies to help me You'll remember David from Jeremy Fielding from the mad batter, and Trent from the lawn tool videos. (David) If you got holes in there (Destin) Okay, so imagine So right now we've got pipe the plug out [FOOMP] and then all the air rushes Yeah. What if we have the pipe (David) This really is (Destin) Guide it in there... (David) ...to reengage the And it also retains the seal. And we may be able with air just because And because of the Venturi. (Jeremy) As soon as I start a bunch of questions. Because at that point I'm putting like, where ... How do you make it? (David) It's going to be long (Trent) Just get a (Destin) Just get a We need to talk about that So I've been successful in So it sounds like we're ready to go [Everyone laughing] (David) Now that we've decided We'll tell Destin Okay. I want to show you because it's awesome. This is the solid works model. And we're going to cut and we're going to and show you what it The whole idea here is to go stupid fast. So to do that, we needed on one side and not a lot That difference in This seal right here that difference in pressure, We can pressurize the and then we pull a vacuum when we're ready to fire. If we pull that rod back, dumping all that air behind Pressurizing this tank than it might seem several different places We have a gasket and a dynamic seal So when we pressurize that tank, it's going to try to push that just like a syringe... but it's actually good, that force to try to pop the cork To do this, we designed at the back of the tank. We push the rod And then we compress making a seal behind the baseball. We then click up this everything together. If we get all the alignment right, since it's one long rod that sealed until the moment we then pressurize And then we release that dump all the air So it goes stupid fast. The problem is now the rod move back very fast It could break stuff. So to fix that, we have this that we can tune with a and stop the rod. Let's go forward and look we did to the vacuum With the golf ball cannon. I observed that as the ball got it started to inflate the tape. Kind of like a balloon... still air inside the barrel, some of the velocity In an effort to get rid 20 foot long barrel. We had two extra vacuum We've got this big cylinder up front here. And then we have this big red The idea is, as the ball if there's any extra air I don't really know if I honestly just kind of made You want to suck the ball and you want to, that's in the way. So you've got what I call Anyway, it doesn't matter. [Happy banjo music and machine noises] Since the dawn of blacksmithing welders and engineers Wouldn't you say? [Laughter] [Banjo music continues] (Destin) You laughing at us? (Welder) We don't get to see that very often [Banjo music continues] Okay. We're going to The question here is... running all the way through. Does the pressure seal off And also do our What do you think? 300 PSI? Yeah that sounds like a good test. IT IS TIME The moment we've been waiting for. Oh my goodness. Oh dude. (Jeremy) (Destin) Oh dude. Going Up! (Destin) Oh, dude... (Jeremy) This, is insane. (Destin) Oh, golly guys. Okay, Here we go. Mark 1 Supersonic Take One. Baseball's loaded, Goggle up, guys. Here we go. [hissing gasses filling tank] It appears to be holding all right, (Jeremy) It's definitely quiet. (Destin) No leaking? You guys ready? Three, two, one. [SUPER LOUD BLAST] [excited redneck noises] [grown men losing the ability to communicate] OH MY GOSH. Oh my goodness. I think we need to we need to get out in a and probably get the and see what's going on. But this is NUTS. Okay. We have the thing built. We have all of the That is a ton of baseballs. They're really cool. They have a Smarter Every and the Rocket City Trash More about that later. There's a way you can actually Anyway, now that we built it, This is what we want to do. We want to make a controller We need gauges all in one the chamber pressure. We also need to know the vacuum We need to have all of this so that when it comes time and send this baseball we'll have it all So we painted the cannon. We did some low pressure testing, which I'm sure the Redstone Arsenal nearby. And I dubbed it &quot;The Mark One Supersonic Today is the day we're in a relatively So the goal for today is the speed of sound I doubt we can. This is Trent setting up the We've got this mirror and if we can see the and the shadow graph We're shooting with nitrogen, the reason we're shooting molecular weight is around 28. Jeremy's excited. -Definitely excited. We're gonna be shooting the speed of sound of than the speed of Interestingly, I learned this. The speed of sound in humid air Anyway, what I'm going to do is... because we're going that thing really high. We're going to be setting to get behind when we are I've got to focus Can you spin this at a Uh, orthogonal to the If that thing blows up, we don't want Destin and Alright, so let's We are using a single schlieren setup. So, that's a fiber optic light. The fiber optic light goes comes back. We're cutting the light It's hard to see because Trent, do you mind (Trent) Yep! I have it. But what happens is, at our schlieren set up, Trent's gonna light the You should see a double. Yeah. Hold it up There you go. That's because there's and then coming back So let's talk through There's some stuff going on here. So back when Nolan Ryan they would measure the speed Um, now they measure the speed This is important because about to do is going This is day one, I'm going to come out here for however many weeks it takes I'm looking for, over the baseball. So what I think is we've got the baseball I think it's going just because of the speed But the shockwave and the baseball, is going to outrun... It's going to be My hypothesis is that be subsonic when and we won't get the It might be supersonic, So, this thing, rated up to a thousand PSI. We're going to We've got a big thick, real Let's go look at it real quick. So here you go two, one-inch That is a massive target. Let's get a baseball. [exhaling excitedly] It is time. Okay. We're about to go which is right here. Um, this is what the We tried to make it as We're going to add gas here. We're gonna do the which is the highest pressurized this thing to. If you know anything we're going to be behind (Jeremy) Absolutely! So uh....here we go. - Ramrod. Is your heart beating fast? It doesn't feel right to [tape cutting] (Jeremy) Confirm all- CLEAR. (Jeremy) Switch tank to vent ready. - Oh man. You're ready. (Jeremy) Okay. So the tank is capable So we're pulling the my heart's not beating (Jeremy) It's had a Okay. All right. [more heavy breathing] So an absolute vacuum If we can get somewhere About to pressurize here, Alright. Nobody get outside the That is a lot of volume. So we're gonna be holding This is tickling all of that need to be tickled. (Jeremy) Yes. (Destin) We got baseball. we've got ideal gas law. We've got aerodynamics. We have mechanical design. I get to push a button (Jeremy) You get to push red cover switch. [laughing] Alright, here we go. 180 PSI. There will be a (Trent) I'm scared. I'm a little, I'm tingly We're at... Dude, we have a really 540 PSI [Urgently] Hey, we're losing our vacuum. Here we go. Get ready? [BARBARIC YAWP] [ECHOES BLASTING OFF TREES] (Destin) Where did it go? (Jeremy) That ball disintegrated! (Destin) No it didn't? (Jeremy) I think it hit the.... (Destin) It did hit the back. (Laughing) get the, get the (Jeremy) Hold on, Tank is safe. [grown men giggling] (Jeremy) It shredded it man! Oh wait, you can (Destin) Fantastic! Okay... So at some point that high-speed. (Destin) Oh man. Okay, cool. I don't think that one's going to (Destin narrating) I got to admit, it was genuinely hard (Destin) Okay yeah so.. [screams of disbelief] (Jeremy) Oh man. Duuuuude. What have we... What have we done? Look at it. (Jeremy) Can we just walk in front of the mirror now? (Jeremy) ...and then we'll know (Destin) You can tell it's Like, it has a Mach cone! (Jeremy) There's another... (Destin) What is that? (Jeremy) You've got something (Destin) I have no idea We need to measure. We need So you have something we (Trent) Yeah, absoloutely. (Destin) Point Zero One Four..... Now this is rough. Okay, that's it. Now... 1,050 miles an hour... Where's my phone? Mach 1.38. Okay. (Laughs) I'm legitimately having It just seems too fast. Like this is just imagery and We're going to make sure because the shockwave was of the baseballs on schlieren. So we've got a stob here They're 12 foot apart. We've So as the baseball goes across, not we've got a really good pixel calibration the drag coefficient and the baseball. 530 PSI... about minus four Okay, here we go. Five, four, three, two, one. [It kind of sounds like what you'd imagine a dinosaur scream would sounds like... but also lasers] (Destin voiceover) Okay. The Velocity is equal to The time to the first stick And remember, this We're recording at 28,500 The time to the second stick Subtract those two and divide, which is basically 1050 miles per hour. Adjust for altitude and temperature. And... Yeah. Hey, it's supersonic. That was Mach 1.35. I mean, that's just measured Okay... we have a supersonic It is verified. Ready? Three, two, one, fire. [explodey things] (Destin Narrating) We've all &quot;knocking the cover off the ball&quot;, but the ability of a baseball ripping itself apart is something I never That's how leather breaks. When it's After several shots, we realized the cannon was extremely So I decided to put the of danger in hopes of We ordered a set of official So we could begin to understand an MLB fastball, traveling at were to hit something. Okay, you ready? Three, two, one fire. [Piercing blast, this time coming at you] (Destin) Trigger? (Jeremy) It didn't go over, but (Destin Narrating) Even though look like up close, I was totally [slow explosion] Okay. So I've thought for a year And I still don't know So I'm just going to tell I trust that you're going to Here's the deal. A project like this is gigantic a sponsor to sign up for There's just too much risk. Right? However, back in the day I was able to convince my wife. The crazy idea is: what if I Smarter Every Day logo on it. who supports on Patreon. Literally everyone who supports And maybe over time, we can get enough support on this large. And hopefully we don't have you're smart... You know how the internet works. But there was a problem. I didn't have that many baseballs getting that many baseballs. Which is why I reached out to the in town, the Rocket City which I think we will agree is team name in the history of And I said, Hey, Trash Pandas. Here's the deal, I would like supersonic baseball cannon. Would you consider helping And they said, yes! Just tell people about You know, our first we're really excited about it. Well, they didn't get to So the Trash Pandas about the Trash Pandas right now, they have great shirts I'm sure they would They helped me And over several months, I signed all these baseballs. You understand what I'm trying to break free of a model for why and how This is what I want to do. I want to make the most given time that my mind free from obligation... and Patreon would help me do that. If you would please consider patreon.com/smartereveryday, that will enable me to be free... to do whatever My goal with is to change the world for good. Whether it be making a you know, making somebody what they think they can do, or just straight up that they don't see coming. So that's what I like to I can promise you that any support will go to good in the world. All that being said, please consider subscribing on Patreon. I would greatly appreciate that. If you are a Patron already, I need to know your address, your baseball because I have it. I just don't have your So if you already support please do that. Patreon.com/smartereveryday. Big thanks to the Trash Pandas They're really great people. I want to see them succeed. Yeah, that's it. By the way, we now have on Smarter Every Day. We can do whatever we want now. I thank you for watching this video. I thank you for supporting this that this guy in Alabama has, where he explores and tries to do things respectful, humble, and Thank you for considering Also. Thank you for I'm Destin. I'm grateful to you. You're getting have a good one. Bye.