MAN: What are we looking at next? We're looking at our library of probably two of the most famous Sir Donald Bradman, PAUL KENNEDY: a rare crossover between eras, when the greatest batter met the greatest of all time. This photo was taken There are only four examples of it and we're lucky enough Just two years earlier, Bradman had paid the young Indian SIR DONALD BRADMAN: I've only seen And I was very, very struck COMMENTATOR: I asked my wife to come because I said... but I feel much the same as I used to play. HARSHA BHOGLE: It was huge in India. Everybody in India said, &quot;Right, who's the greatest &quot;And now Bradman's saying, It's probably the greatest And suddenly the parallels The hunger for runs, GIDEON HAIGH: When you look he looks more dynamic. When he cuts he looks like a modern player. Nothing fazes them. Hi, Sachin. Paul Kennedy. From the ABC in Australia. I just loved the way he batted, COMMENTATOR: Brilliant effort That brings the crowd to their feet. Grandpa certainly had with watching him play, There's a technical aspect, but there's also skills, there's mental capacity, He throws so much at it that front foot just sort of When I watch Tendulkar, And I felt I was in that zone where I could actually figure out Thanks very much. Thank you. Must have been a very special thing It was. There are also cricketers It felt like the country every time he went out to bat. PAUL KELLY: They kept sane and they kept grounded Not an easy thing to do. It just defies belief and maybe their sanctuary was going out in the middle (CROWD ROARS) The best I ever saw two players from opposite sides and completely different eras. Bradman, who played only test and Tendulkar, one-day internationals, test matches Everything was different for them - the pitches, the padding, When you look at their styles, Yet in his 80s, Bradman saw something of himself and I've always wondered whether In fact, I reckon he saw a lot more. WOMAN: He was answering the question in the context of And could he have answered Well, if there was I've got plenty of questions. So I'm going back to where and hopefully work out why no other player has NEWSREEL: Don Bradman, the possessor of more records I try and get as many runs and if in getting those runs well, naturally, I'm very pleased, but I do not deliberately set out Well, he broke every single record in the span of a year. At the start of 1930, he gets Gets to England Yeah, I think growing up, you know Like, the greatest cricketer You know the batting average. You've got Donald Bradman and then you have starting at about 60 So, effectively, you've got him No-one's got close. And his poor series, his Bodyline, That's his poor tour! As a kid growing up, &quot;Tell me Australia in two words,&quot; I'd have said &quot;kangaroo, Bradman&quot;. There's so many elements holding the hopes of a country and a boy from the bush, you know, I also like that he's a musician. As a grandpa, he was awesome. I'd go to my grandparents' house If he was there, he'd either be or he'd be up in his den if there was, say, an AFL game on, Make no mistake - So he was hooking you for four Oh, yeah. He's a Davis Cup-level He can play snooker You just don't think it's real that anyone can have Thankfully, Bradman and decided to play cricket. How are you enjoying Oh, having a great time, thanks. NEWSREEL: Every road led Skies threatened, but the lure and till the ground was full, the turnstiles clicked No money was wanted back HAIGH: He's completely and what people think is feasible BHOGLE: But I think it was Bradman's first objective Tendulkar's first objective was 'The Little Master'. Like Bradman, Sachin Tendulkar RICHIE BENAUD: Very talented player. COMMENTATOR: It's a wonder to lift that bat up and play that. Played his first test at 16 and kept going for 24 years to become the highest run-scorer Like Bradman, Tendulkar also holds including scoring the most I knew that Sachin was on song because there'd be no traffic COMMENTATOR: Tendulkar goes big! Suddenly the word went round that, &quot;Sachin's on 90! and it was like wildfire, and everybody dropped in their (CROWD ROARS) I definitely remember having that I used to wear a lot. He was just a class above the rest. And then as soon as he I put my Aussie shirt back on. TONY GREIG: Well, the new batsman, ALLAN BORDER: Well, it was during The Indians were in Australia, and that was my first sighting We'd heard a little bit but I hadn't seen footage of him REPORTER: Teenage sensation again showed off So, first impressions - That's when I first saw greatness. Because it's one thing getting runs, it's another thing watching a kid dominate an Australian attack BILL LAWRY: Deflects. He'll get it. Hughes is away. He'll Yes, here it comes. Well played, Sachin Tendulkar. GREIG: Yes, the youngest player to By the end of it, I think &quot;This little prick's gonna get Um...yeah, I probably do because, I mean, he's 18 and you're just thinking, &quot;I mean, how many runs HAIGH: And then he gets to Perth, and he plays this brilliant hand Oh, over the head of gully. That's four more. I think that Perth innings one of the finest test centuries I don't recall him missing Beautiful 50 from this young man, Sachin Tendulkar. (APPLAUSE) You felt, &quot;This guy is This is where he's moving Drives. That could be it. Yes, it does! What a fine DANIEL HOEVENAARS: So, that's You're looking at total runs, versus career batting average. Bradman and Tendulkar are the peaks Tendulkar making the most runs and Bradman having KELLY: He was one of those people You know, &quot;I want Australia to win, &quot;but please let Tendulkar Especially back in 2011. Sachin Tendulkar was in Australia with 99 international centuries COMMENTATOR: Bowled! The story will continue. But it didn't go to plan. GREIG: I don't see any reason That's out! Yes, he is! Well, what a tragedy. He looked as if for that century The big moment finally came COMMENTATOR: What a day for India. What a day for It's an absolutely mind-boggling, To get 100 international hundreds ..it's like what Sir Bradman did - The following year, Sachin Tendulkar at his Mumbai home ground, having achieved feats no other Not only made more runs but he's still sitting 5,000 runs It's not he deserves it. He's absolutely a legend. And now he's truly got himself They don't build museums like this We have artefacts and statistics, but not much vision It's why Bradman said But what clips we have He got after that one? He's watching very carefully. And as soon as he gets half a sniff He's thundering. He's right into it. I mean, I think Bradman only hit but he wouldn't have bothered I was lucky enough to talk BORDER: You know, I was trying on how you bowled to Bradman. And he just gave it, &quot;Oh, He said the crack off the bat But he was so busy. As you can see in this stuff, Bradman didn't tire His partners would complain that and he'd been there all day and they because he was that quick Even the question &quot;Don, how did you do it?&quot; And he's taken part INTERVIEWER: Would you mind showing Just illustrate a few little shots Front foot. Look at that bat speed. And you have That covers practically You can hear it. It's like chh. And you also have He demonstrates a pull shot And we have the late cut. It's a very late cut. He says late cut third. It's a shot no-one plays now. Going across with the left foot. You think batting would be easier I don't know, actually. Now, the big contrast for me but then you play at that time, so maybe Bradman needed to put a It was all so superbly coordinated, the hand-eye coordination, Just like the way Like, it was all in, like, HEALY: It was ultimately Also, I can't believe how small he So it gives me great hope one day. I think it was Bradman. Well, it's a wonderful exposition, You can see the alacrity with which You can see the wrist, You can see the fact that he's being a potential source of a run. MAXWELL: He did like to dominate. He wasn't hanging around, He was making the loose ball. So that again, is his consummate that they were able to do that. Have you shown Tendulkar these? When Sachin Tendulkar was playing this was a city of 10 million. Now it's double that. Cricket is everywhere, and even a game like this I've suddenly become That was great. Good fun. And you still see his face I'm on my way Welcome to Wankhede Stadium. You know, it's been one to come here Oh, OK. Here it is. The iconic Wankhede Balcony. And this is where the players stand The famous balcony with the 2011 World Cup victory. COMMENTATOR: India lift The party has started And that's where That's the visiting team. It's uncomfortably close OK. The famous steps. Yes. This is where he walked out And this is the first time were actually at the ground I don't think any fan here (CHEERING) The memories that you've left forever and ever, That will reverberate (CHEERING) If you look at India as a country, The hero worship in India as a social fabric of the country. Then along comes this teenager, who starts playing against men right Now, that's an inspiration to believe in their dreams because not often do you see coming from a middle-class family And it sort of gives belief that, hey, even we can do this. Hi, Sachin. Paul Kennedy Paul, lovely to see you. Absolute pleasure. It's the start of a new season and the first day for a new batch It's 30 degrees I'm the only one breaking a sweat. There are 14 boys and three girls and we are going to try This camp would be free, So, full sponsorship, they don't Nothing. That's the least I can do. The game has given me so much. Well played. Shot. Good shot. I'm going to show you the 1930... ..Bradman's clinic. (ON VIDEO) ..by going back. His pull shot Yeah. The bat speed was just incredible. When he's demonstrating It goes, whoosh. That's what his teammates said. Yes, it did. (CHUCKLES) He could score 360 degrees Somebody who is is always going to do that. Wherever he wanted to play you could see that control. You could see that authority Every ball you're playing, you're to the fielding side. Every ball So, when you're coaching what are you looking at? Overall set up. I think for batting The grip, back lift, but intent is more important When I started playing, was to hit a ball for a boundary, and if the ball then I would look to punch it If it was better than that, A little better than that, block it. And if I had to let the ball go, That's plan D. That was my last option The first option Which is very much the way Absolutely. I'm going to ask you, what do you that he recognised in himself? That's a tough question to answer. That's, that's a massive statement. And for... I was only 22 then, 22, 23. I mean, for a 22-, 23-year-old to hear something like that, it But now, as an older man, do you think he was talking about It wouldn't be right of me to speak about what the similarities I would leave that to his family. GRETA BRADMAN: What I think about he had such admiration for the man first and foremost. And I can't ever remember It was, I think, resonating with a sense of this is another to know himself and to channel that into unlocking And I think that is preparation. And I reckon is he did all of this prep work Shepherd Street full not just of people, but full I think there was to have this one life? Let's all go out there Sitting at the piano learning from her a real sense And bottom line, I guess, family. Anyone I think who grows up and creativity and, you know, What's the general reaction when Well, quite remarkable. When you go to a historic house, You're breathing the same air. You know, it's as close Please, come on in. This is where Don All the vents are original. And this is the parlour. The Bradmans were a very large Behind that piano, against that wall You can imagine Don's sisters, trying to practise while Don's NEWSREEL: Bradman never knew which way that ball and trying to follow its flight and wrists like quicksilver. BRADMAN: But of course, it had no meaning at all for me, other than the fact I used to play away for ages out I had one golf ball and I got this weird idea why not, you know, use a blade and make it kind of egg-shaped ball? And then I would ask my aunt and I would be practising in the living room. I had to play with soft hands, otherwise it would break You see so many athletes they're almost inventing games where you're not getting that So, for both Tendulkar and Bradman learning to play the game to make it tapping into imagination it feels like Oh! Yes. So... Of course you can. You can even hit It's beautiful. It's beautiful. We are touching you, Don. It's going away. I'm getting goose bumps that, you know, where Sir Don used to practise. Whoa! Oh, careful. The moment I come here, So this is where you grew up with Yes, absolutely. This was his Yep. And I used to live And all the cricket, used to happen in the grounds. Yes. He used to love injuring us. He used to bowl the bouncer - about Yeah. So he enjoyed the bowling when he used to come here. Tough to face. You will not believe the speed Really? He used to go two paces up and he used to bowl. And I can assure you was at the speed I swear to God. SACHIN: I was a naughty kid, Completely out of control. I don't know how my parents I actually fell from a mango tree. And my brother said, &quot;He has to go and... Yeah. &quot;He's got to go on the cricket field &quot;and practise there The mango tree was right here. And Sachin had climbed up on it and one of the branches fell down which I remember it vividly. I don't how he saw and he was proved right, and all the mischief came to use, My friends tell me that my brother was never contactable. He would go on long drives. He didn't want anyone to tell him Once the series got over, we would sit at home together and So he was another coach. Yeah, I mean, from the time I picked up Yeah. There were challenging moments That is where the family My father was a professor, also My parents also enjoyed music. Mother would be Both my brothers followed cricket, who gave me the first always made sure And then when I got married, then Sara and Arjun, my children. Right from my first game in my life I got nervous before I was playing. I remember Anjali telling me, I said, &quot;No, I'm just preparing &quot;I'm in a different zone now.&quot; An athlete goes through There are highs and lows, and to be so patient in this It was a combined effort, and that's why I say that I felt where multiple guys and I was the face of the team. And I would join my parents only on But otherwise I lived Catch it! Shivaji Park is perhaps the most It's 10:00 on a Sunday morning, here in the one place. No net sessions today. This is more of an informal games, not much defence, all-out attack. And this is what they do If you get caught by a player Well, that might be of my modest sporting lifetime. You feel like you're at The other thing I've noticed but the players The cricket is nonstop in Mumbai. They're playing. They're practising. Sure, there are academies, that makes India You've got to watch where They're hitting sixes and fours HAIGH: In India, of the student and the guru. And in Tendulkar's case, SACHIN: Achrekar Sir's influence He tried changing my grip. So his thought was Yeah. I mean, he felt slightly up on the handle, But he was sharp enough that it's taking away my natural And so sometimes it's better to let rather than over-coach. Just important to make It's like cooking food. If the salt is missing, We just add salt. A little bit of variation and the same thing here. Minor adjustments so it's important MAN: I saw him first as a schoolkid some of the fastest bowlers The way he batted, I remember going back home &quot;Look, here is a special talent.&quot; Then he makes He gets picked for India And by the time he was 16, than any 22, 23 year old. When he played his first Test, COMMENTATOR: Waqar Younis That's a good shot. And then to go and play the pace Imran, Waseem, Waqar, And Tendulker, I think he may have taken that SACHIN: So early on in my career if I have to be successful I should be able I liked a lot going on my toes and I thought I was able to transfer My back foot shots invariably So I would punch the ball, When I got on the toes, and I was able to generate power. Holy cow! Tendulkar heaving You could just see how poised Nothing really fazed him. He got bowlers coming in He wasn't fazed by that. It's not a bad shot either. He loved pace. He just got into great positions. When you have that much time, MAN: He was quick but he was often late to play shots, so it was really hard to fool him. Maybe try and get... (LAUGHS) Thanks, Siri. Where do you bowl to Tendulkar? Didn't answer, did he? Siri doesn't know From the time until it reaches you is of the So in that short space of time, you've got to make up your mind and either try or defensive shot Now that is a pretty tall order. BAUM: I think Bill Ponsford said that the secret to Don He sees the ball His eyesight wasn't exceptional. It's just this very particular gift. I can only imagine bowling Like you just would have felt where you pitched the ball, he had He knew instantly what shot he was going to play and BORDER: Obviously, his brain just that little bit quicker And I think that's what you see Like Bradman, he is just a little and he exploited it. So, the machine says It's just under 140. That's actually the average pace through almost every era And he's pretty comfortable. So I'll try and face that fast that wants to know what it's like Is there anything you can tell me while I'm facing that speed? I reckon if you stay pretty side on, So maybe this side of the stumps That's why we use it. Perfect. Thanks, mate. So we're starting at about That's just slightly above what So and then we'll go up in tens Oh, he's hit the middle of the bat Oh. This is Bradman. Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! There we go. Solid. He struggled a bit there This might be...120, 125. So we'll see how we go. I'll go up a bit faster. He's shaking in his shoes out there. Didn't see it. (LAUGHS) Didn't see it. That's gone through before he's played a shot. It's bang on 140. Deep breaths. It'll only bruise for a week. No, three weeks at my age. Alright, we'll try red. There we go. Shot. He likes the red ones. Well, that was an experience My heart was beating I was perspiring and I was It's mind blowing And it will be really interesting to find out what Bradman in 0.4 of a second. What we want to do is bring in a way that Through Sam Harper. Pretty similar. Because there's always... So you're exactly right in between What are you thinking about What's your starting point today? I think it's trying to find and trying to re-create those. So we're gonna do BRADMAN: But it's aim should be So I think I need to be thumb gets his head into the ball, comes and finishes with his way Yeah, his hands are quite close the whole time through. Alright, well, let's... Let's give it a go. His head is actually slightly So an off drive...slightly and head Yep. So his bottom hand and his top hand and his arms are quite straight. Yeah, that's good. I've gone back in time. Do you reckon I can speak like him? &quot;This is the straight drive.&quot; And he doesn't quite Looks good to me. Probably a boundary too. His devastating pull shot. Oh, wow, he really rotates on that. This would be a hard one to do Yeah, and he comes right Yeah. That's more like it. Can we try the late cut? Let's reintroduce that Oh, my word. That's actually gonna be harder His first step is back and across He almost falls over the offside. It's a bit lower. Yes. Yeah. OK, ready for Sachin? And a quick look Yeah. And there's tap-tap Yeah, that's it. How does he hold it? Exactly. Can we compare the pull shot? Front foot goes, then his back foot and he uses his leg Close. Yeah. It's quite a remarkable shot, The improvised cut shot. They broke convention, didn't they, Yeah. Well done. Nice. Sensational. I can log this in and name it Yeah. OK, this is a bowler's nightmare. Bradman and Tendulkar Magic. So we're going to play them We're going to have the camera So I give you guys a view And you see the path which is a really good way to see where you can swing it around Stance obviously very different. They were both very good but Don Bradman in particular Very quick to identify the ball, so he finishes with his whole body In fact, I think he spins Tendulkar, on the other hand, a really hitting the ball rather than What's your view on whether or not They look similar at the start and then they become different On the straight drive, over the shoulder. Tendulkar finishes with the bat partly because of the way So, you've been inside the mind of Bradman and Tendulkar. Are they similar? In a skills sense, not really. From my end, they would have done very similar and played the ball So there was certainly a few things Do you think it's possible that in Tendulkar? I think he was seeing confidence, I think he was seeing Some of it marries up to technique but I think a lot of it's Mmm. BRADMAN: It was just his compactness and his stroke production It all seemed to gel That was how I felt. From my side, I thought the statement came at a time &quot;Wow, I need to push harder.&quot; I think it's the best tonic to feel that you are being noticed It came at the right time. MAN: Even as a large section of was trying to get into the ground, Australia's chances I remember on that 1998 tour, we were Tendulkar-centric COMMENTATOR: Through the gap. It was nuts. If you were trying to move unless they actually looked at you, (CROWD ROARS) Great shot! Oh, it's a biggie! What a player. Wow, this little man is the nearest I've always felt that cricket when you've got slow spin bowler Then I feel you've always got COMMENTATOR: That's smashed back, straight back over The build-up for Warne versus Tendulkar greets him When Warne would get the ball but it was loud. It was just two legends of the game SHASTRI: There was genuine thought Before even Shane Warne Australia came to India and played played Mumbai. I got runs in that match. I got a double hundred. And my friends And he said, Warne hasn't shown the trump card He hasn't bowled a single ball At the critical stage I know for sure that he is going And that's when I called who played cricket with me. And one of the leg spinners there Was a beautiful leg spinner. And he bowled to him I think HAIGH: He worked out that you could against him. Warne spun the ball vast distances to manoeuvre the ball JIM MAXWELL: he galloped down the pitch to Warne and he tried again perhaps and he nicked off to slip. COMMENTATOR: He's out! He's out! You know, So it was seeming like we're going to win. And the turning point in that series TENDULKAR: I had two options. One was to go over mid-wicket and the second option was if the ball was landing then to be on top of the ball. Then the unevenness of the surface MAXWELL: Tendulkar kind of with a brilliant combination of letting the ball go, soft hands, And Tendulkar plays a slog sweep Slog swept it into the distance. COMMENTATOR: Oh, he's gone after him That was like a cannon going off, in terms of the game and the series. And you think of defining moments I think that is one of the defining HAIGH: Warne kind of got caught up that Tendulkar laid for him. The more he tried using the more Tendulkar put him off Did it seem as significant at the Yes, it certainly did. MAN: Sachin Tendulkar's unbeaten 155 after one of the greatest innings I don't think it's been anyone probably even in the same class He's just an amazing player. When Tendulkar was batting, he could (CROWD ROARS) (SILENCE) His capacity for shutting out is absolutely extraordinary. TENDULKAR: When I was batting my conscious mind was always and my subconscious mind Because bowler is constantly Your conscious mind Then once you've picked, you have to surrender yourself whatever is stored in the computer, It takes over and you react. COMMENTATOR: He knew exactly where the space was. I think that's fascinating. I remember showing Grandpa So this idea of engagement Having this experience I don't know if he was sort of but what an extraordinary When you're not in that state, you're trying to think about what whereas when you are in that state, And you probably can't explain It's sort of elusive When I started playing cricket, because there was no pressure My father had given me the freedom GRETA BRADMAN: These days in sport, Folks like Ben Crowe, Ash Barty's, and this appreciation of the importance of getting to know Both of them talk about but not necessarily You know, Tendulkar's dad. &quot;So I just want you to try your best &quot;and not care about Well, that's a superpower, because most of us get distracted I think Tendulkar often said, &quot;Look, the critics don't know &quot;or how I'm preparing and so forth, &quot;so why would I listen to them?&quot; Everybody draws comparisons in terms of record, but very few people... This is the first time with a comparison of impact. And of conduct. And the timing of that impact and what it did to What Australia lived through in is economic hardship and a sense of being abandoned by Britain. PAUL KELLY: That was one place Beating England at their own game Now look at where India was. India's come of age as when the country opens up, and India is now an open country as opposed to a closed, As India grew to take its place that we could be as good which under a colonial regime, They were part of that whole And he was adopted son and he took it very seriously. He actually unified the country That is when we started because Bradman had the same It was strange, but I think because of the kind of pressure Every time he went out, you know, the entire nation When is he going to get 100? If he didn't, I know he might have felt When you reach those heights, because you are the only one there Both Bradman and Tendulkar must at different times from the expectations certainly in the case of Tendulkar, Sachin never left. How does he live here in this... Even today if he goes if he comes to one, OK, So that's something And he tries to live around that. Even if he wants to drive He steps out at 1am or 2am and that's pretty much life for him. It's a package deal and I wouldn't I think whatever I have received it's a blessing from up above. There are very few people who love doing something and people actually love watching (ALL CHANT) You know, I feel today amidst all somewhat like a movie star. I think fame to Grandpa, He saw it as at best an illusion I think that it did mean that others that deviated from who he was. From a journalistic point of view, He grew weary of it, He thought it was intrusive. I'm sorry to say, this is going and that I do not intend to play So all you journalists at my expense, I will ask... (LAUGHTER) You better get busy because He thought that he'd done his bit, and in fairness to him, MAN: Farewell to the stage on which You have to remember with Bradman that the pressure extended particularly when he was a leader I would honestly think that I get as I ever got in my life, and it is quite common for me to have to spend just dealing with the mail. KELLY: Bradman answered every letter I mean, that's a real grounding &quot;These people are writing to me. &quot;I'll take the time to respect I think it's very telling. Hold on a sec. I don't think anyone My neighbour, Mr Gowariker, his son, I was only seven, eight years old. I had gone to his house and that's when his father He said, &quot;I've got something &quot;A handwritten letter by Sir Don.&quot; The letter says One regret and his life was he was My father and he had reached out to Sir Don, with a simple letter, which I would It's just a very, very prized and I've kept it It speaks a lot Playing cricket, but, you know, what happens is also equally important And that is where the person It's a precious thing. MAN: Sir Donald Bradman is used by the bucketload, but today the procession of posties with a barrage of deliveries At that point, Grandpa was not He'd had a number of mini strokes He was obviously very quiet as with everything I hope he doesn't mind me WOMAN: The celebrations have been India's star batsman flew into Adelaide last night I was actually in the middle and my manager told me that he's invited you to Australia and he's actually asked I know that it was hard for Grandpa, to invite someone over but it meant a great deal to him, Going to Sir Don's house, was an unbelievable experience. MAN: With him was Australian spinner who has also received high praise The funniest bit was the drive and Warnie said, &quot;You got to start and I said, &quot;No. You are from &quot;You should be starting And he said to me, &quot;What am &quot;You two are batters. &quot;You should be discussing batting. &quot;And I will stand there Well, Paul, this is the They sat there beside each other, and... Big smiles on their faces. Very nervous and... But they chatted I think it's fair to say (LAUGHTER) Absolutely. &quot;They're coming around. And he said, And these two young men &quot;What am I going to But they all found plenty He was just unbelievably sharp and he kept up with what I think the thing was Sachin's eagerness what really lay behind the scenes. He was going to get the good oil Obvious question from our side was what would you have average He said, &quot;Maybe around 70 or so.&quot; I said, &quot;Why 70?&quot; He goes, &quot;70 is not bad He tried again and he said, &quot;How do you prepare &quot;How do you prepare? His answer was simple. I mean, &quot;I went to work, &quot;got runs, went back to work.&quot; (BOTH LAUGH) Life must have been I mean, now, professional athletes, post-match recovery, It's a different approach now. But in those days, &quot;To Sir Donald Bradman, &quot;with best wishes &quot;from Sachin Tendulkar.&quot; A candlestick holder It's lovely, isn't it? It was a very special visit and they were such Well, each of them Very, yes. I think they judged each other All of them were very modest people. It must have been It was. Thanks very much. GRETA: I think that Shane would have been a comfort He loved Warnie. You know, someone who he knew, someone who he trusted To meet someone that he admired That official photo But we in India that Bradman has anointed his heir. Bradman's heir is Tendulkar. I think I'm probably inclined to which was a really special meeting who had affection for each other Only four copies of the photo There's the one at and another at the South Australian (CAR HORN BLARES) The other two went to India. One to Tendulkar's manager, and the other in Sachin's house Well, here it is. It's a special photograph, capturing a special time I knew the Tendulkar family but I didn't know that Sachin kept One champion's tribute to another. Warne didn't make but the photographer in a separate shot. The one the Australian papers You're the only one who remains Do you miss Shane Warne? Yes. For me, he will always.... He'll always be there. And I hate using this word, &quot;was&quot;. With Warnie, I mean, I... I shared a wonderful relationship, and we've had It's hard to accept But the memories will always stay I was in England last year which was right next And I actually could... Tough to lose a friend. Tough to lose a friend in there. DON BRADMAN: We must not become We must see to it that youth and continues to play it. And that brings me What did Bradman see in Tendulkar? I think he saw a batsman a bit like Bradman, that he could take away from bowlers completely. Bradman didn't say, Bradman said, Perhaps to some extent, it is a little bit of and he sees this player &quot;I think that's how I played.&quot; For me, the connections are very much around and determination to be themselves. BHOGLE: He must have seen He must have been and then get that feeling that PAUL KELLY: I think he'd recognise He often had a smile on his face, He just really enjoyed it. I think Tendulkar had the same. The legacy from both of them HAIGH: I think that's something that was that despite the fact with finite possibilities, they were never bored by it. They were always fascinated by it. You never got the feeling that either of them would rather SACHIN: This has been my passion. If you want to grow, you have to continue to be The moment you stop you stop progressing. CLARK: They both I think that's at If you enjoy that and it reinforces that They probably just treated cricket like they were still Even at the international level, They just loved batting. There is no dispute about and there is no dispute about We're not going We may well never see But for those who missed Bradman, and we should be very, Captions by Red Bee Media Copyright