In 2008, Nokia generated over $76 billion in market, but after a few short years, they It seemed like bankruptcy was inevitable as this. This is the story of how a single man new life in the modern smartphone era. Setup and as it grew, so did they. Their revenue in 1996 that. Yet, all of this was about to change something happened. In 2007, a single press the world. One which sealed Nokia's fate. People watched as they saw the Compared to Nokia's classic brick phones, had a fast, seamless user experience, and touchscreen. No one had seen anything like it. perfect position to adapt and retaliate. Though that's not how things played out. wasn't intimidated by Apple's new Their engineers claimed the iPhone was pointed out that it didn't come close to the iPhone was a niche product, but really, Nokia was known for their reliability, but a selling point, and more of a drawback. People Smartphones had changed the industry forever. They Soon, competitors began offering their HTC and Google released the T-Mobile G1, with the By this time, Nokia executives realized how did they respond? (Show clip: 0:04-0:16) (Show clip: 0:02-0:07) megapixel camera, a slide-out keyboard, twice and most importantly: a touch-screen. they labeled it the "iPhone killer". In reality, it was clunky, and the screen came from their operating system: Symbian. phones. But now, it was costing them. Compared third parties. At launch, their online store but at this time the Apple App Store had and it was at this point that Nokia This change came from their newest CEO. Setup Nokia announced their new Elop was previously the head of Microsoft's he pushed Microsoft to develop the office Elop produced record profits for Microsoft, Nokia was in desperate need of change. But the On his very first day at Nokia, Elop the entire company. A historic day which is Elop", a book by past Nokia employees. and a stage was built especially for "The doors were covered by security, and everybody cameras no recording of the event was allowed." "I have learned that we are standing on a burning competitors, more rapidly than we ever expected. smartphone and attracting developers to "At the midrange, we have Symbian. It has proven North America. Additionally, Symbian is proving leading to slowness in product development" of ecosystems, where ecosystems include not but developers, applications, ecommerce, Nokia, our platform is burning. We are working leadership. I believe that together, we can we can choose to define our future. While motivating, unfortunately, this speech products and value proposition, and exaggerated Despite the security, the speech was leaked decreased their sales, and dropped But Elop wasn't concerned. Why? Because he wanted changes in the board meeting a few days later. Symbian needed to go, but the question was, important decision of Nokia's future. supported Android, the biggest competitor to But Elop had his eyes set on something Elop, set out to use Microsoft's The speech fanned the flames aboard the platform the negotiations with Google. After the Burning the only choice the board could make. Elop, with his deep relationship with Microsoft, provide the hardware, R&amp;D, and marketing, In February 2011, Elop announced Nokia's be phased out, in favor of the new Windows OS. ecosystem" in the smartphone market, and a way for Microsoft to develop the new generation of Windows were setting out to challenge the status quo, and Nokia was now losing lots of money. With a Q2 in profit in Q2 of the previous year. partnership: The Lumia 800, and Lumia 710. Their OS. This is when things went from bad to worse. Nokia's phones were doomed from the start. Users had to essentially re-learn how to use unintuitive. You could see that a desktop-first Windows placed heavy restrictions on Nokia. single-core processor, while competitors meaning Nokia was leagues behind in speed and bafflingly, no front-facing camera. of apps. Windows 8 had a bad interface, and was phones were launched late, many users were already had a terrible ecosystem, which is strange, given And as time went on, it wasn't clear where it seemed like he was still deeply tied to even though it was clear it was a poor choice. they might have survived. But unfortunately that turned into a colossal failure. making decisions too independently and not keeping final decision for the Nokia Microsoft partnership (source) "between November 2011 and April 23, 2014, 52 Phone operating system were sold." For comparison, The Nokia Microsoft partnership was a colossal Stephen Elop. Suspicion of his loyalty and In 2014 Elop jumped ship back bad enough, he took most of Nokia with him. division for $7.2 billion. With the deal, Group at Microsoft. But worst of all, he "Given our long partnership with Nokia are joining Microsoft, we anticipate a Before Elop joined Nokia, they had 33% market The partnership was a loss for Microsoft and Microsoft could afford the loss. Microsoft sold $350 million, wrote off the loss, and moved to with nothing. They had suffered a cumulative EUR4.9 or their most important division. From here, Nokia should be dead and buried, but it isn't. Setup division was in flames under Elop's leadership, The Nokia Solutions and Networks department Nokia appointed Rajeev Suri as it's head, and profitable, stable part of the business. Suri had been here since 1990. leader Nokia needed in their time of crisis. From here, he immediately laid out his plans. and the company would be scaled back dramatically. to what? The answer came from Suri's old sector. and Technologies--and our position as one we are well placed to meet our goal to be a everybody and everything is connected." (source) weren't flashy or risky, and some might focused on one thing: Stability. and we Tension all time low. They needed to rebuild trust with deal, Nokia enacted a massive share buyback. Nokia shares decreased, and most importantly, Suri knew that Nokia needed to be in Microsoft disaster. The shareholders so he could begin enacting the rest of his plan. In 2015, they acquired Alcatel-Lucent for the prestigious and historic Bell Labs, telecommunications, who owned over 29,000 patents. technology that could save their business: 5G. commercially available. They like their early adoption of the mobile market. the smartphone race. But they weren't alone. Both of which had bigger networks, But then, things began to turn for Nokia. and research, Nokia revealed their biggest specifically designed for 5G. It wasn't their Their bandwidth could reach 84 Gbit/s, three also 50% smaller, and reduced power consumption Suri was pivoting. From consumers, to B2B. Just after this announcement, Nokia Japan's largest telecommunications Resolution / Payoff firms like AT&amp;T and Vodafone. And by 2020, they 2024, this has risen to over 300. They currently In their 2020 press release, they revealed that subscriptions through their various customers. Before the demerger with Microsoft, $6 billion. But by 2022, their restructure Today, Nokia is only worth about a tenth of their the first time, they have something that Nokia had done the impossible. Grand Payoff their mobile division continued to suffer. His Nokia's downfall in mobile and his own. largely shut down, sold for pennies, never reached the same heights since. company he'd been so loyal to. His long-term stability had allowed Nokia to survive. but they couldn't be more different. If you're interested in deeper and exclusive tech analysis, you can sign up But until then, I'm Hari, and