After reaching 10,000 VR, I have become the and the only way to have fun is to play the Yoshi Inkstriker with rollers. And look at are the best stats. And remember, winning is the so many people on the same combo, and don't be just because you see someone in a mean they're actually using a different All right, grab you some coins. We're at 10. right now, get into first place with absolutely no Got him because my combo was optimal. Okay, thing to have in first, actually, because but I'm gonna have more red shells You know what? I've decided now. I think dodging banana. I don't need a backup. I was considering which was a mistake, just because having two Luckily, it was partially when I was That was really scary. Oh the bats! They're just stupid challenges I've played for--Okay, they're but, like, the combos, let's be honest, and having a nice mini turbo stat is the characters for the rest of my life if it meant was the only way. But yeah, we're back in first [Music] And I have two defense items, and there's probably not going to be another blue ending, so I will--[gasps] I got the item! That me so hard, but now if a red shell comes, I'm it's over. Oh wait, that's a Yoshi Inkstriker. This combo is busted. First place was the exact three! Oh, we top four! Wow, I can mess up and over there is gonna get first, and that's totally Yoshi hive mind. It doesn't matter who actually All right, hope all of us will do the double it's fine. It's fine. We're good. Oh, that Oh, I'm not gonna be able to make it up. I'll just don't do that! Oh wow, and they kind but at least I have an item. And wow, items gets so far away that the distance checker so far. You need a really good item to catch up place. That is so stupid. And now first place Can we do this properly this time? I'll use one to get speed right there. That's Oh, that was just so bad, but I'm still and nothing bad can happen to me. Top two have a Get right here, yes! Ohohoh, okay, someone dodged in a bullet, which is Okay, come on, come on. Good item. Do you Probably weren't using the best combo. That's top four. I'm on black Yoshi now. We're just keep everyone on their toes. I don't want everyone mini map and start, like, targeting me and stuff. the Shortcat name is a little more recognizable Shortcat. And yeah, so I don't know if I make my Okay, let's do this shortcut. Impossible to fail I love it. I'm already at 10 coins, so Right, this is really good. Having a breakaway is If you're in second place and you have a breakaway it means you're not within sniping range. And sniping range. Green shells, boomerangs, All right, so we're gonna keep taking Oh no, that's a terrible spot to down because the glider can speed you right I don't know if that was worth it, going wide when I'm at 10 coins and the text turns orange. when color is different. Oh, brake drifting Okay, so that was really nice. I didn't trail the that I can get another item and now I have more showboat here. I'm gonna go around because I could possibly lose this is by taking that is by dropping a bomb right here and trying to while I'm right there for anyone who exits the go, go! You have the better combo! Oh, it's okay. for all the times Mario dropped you in a pit. When if you know what I mean. And I really love this myself here, but every time I've played Waluigi hear me out, that sounds ridiculous. How could you I'm pretty good at this track, but that's not the pick this online. And also, I was at such a low of chances to actually lose on most tracks. so I'm super excited to play this. Especially forces me to lose most of the time, I can actually about it, I've only done, I think, two races serious races. Everything else was just me doing bagging. And so, you actually get to see me drive by the way. The way that I do that, I made The part where you do a little left drift on never seen anyone else do it before, but maybe it. I don't think it's common knowledge. Oh no, because it gets cracked by the blue shell, but I'm Get a blue right there. Great, we're Oh, that was so close, and I have a so it looks like the streak's gonna continue. Oh, okay, someone dodged the shock. I'm glad it with losing with-- with losing to, it is my Yoshi happen. I still have a pretty solid lead right it's gonna be rough for me. I'm gonna go for Why is there fire there? What? did that even--is this game glitching? All Stadium. This continues the streak, and No, Yoshi, bottom three. What are you guys doing? nice when you can take the inside lane and still Ah, that sucks. I was in that position All right, it's okay we're right back in I'm surprised I didn't get hit, that was so close. And let's do this shortcut, and It was not as clean as it could have been, but it I'm not gonna blame that person for trailing. That was so close to getting stolen. Oh no, I boomerang and then the mushroom. That was completely backwards, and then I dodged the All right, we're doing the same thing Hit the item. Oh, so many close calls triple mushrooms in this Okay, I didn't have good alignment for the next And so if I take the ending shortcut--yes! [laughs] let's go! It doesn't really matter what happens are so many shortcuts. I start so wide here in first place. So, I'm gonna take this really we go. Because if I'm in first with just a coin, get a red shell and end my life, so I do not want behind first place. This is totally fine where Oh, I thought it was coming for me. Okay. Oh, wait, just wait. Probably grab a single and we're gonna take a double mushroom I don't get bumped. [gasps] All right, so I have a red hold it as defense--whoa! Massacre! Stay away from that King Boo. You can go geez. Oh, I'm in front of them now, right after All right, so we need some more mushrooms a single mushroom. It can be done, but Purple mini-turbo, nice, nice. I'm really but I have two mushrooms, and if I can take this they didn't actually get hit, that was lag, okay. another mushroom, so I can dodge a blue shell an item to hit me with. What do you have? I can't A banana? Okay, well, now they're in front of me-- take the shortcut, and the reason is because I but I couldn't pass the King Boo. Ugh, Yes! Yes! Yoshi has won every single race track. I sometimes will lose to beginners on this And like, it's a giant difference, like the results--I look at that. I didn't even look at This is a busted mini-turbo stat, I got Pretty good start, but how is it gonna end? Pendulum, pendulum's over there. Oh, I'm getting in a great spot, first place with a slight lead, really scary, but I'm going around a turn, item here. Okay, okay, this is what it's all okay, okay. There's a much more straightforward No one is near me. I just need No blue shell, and we got this. Yeah, no shortcut here either. Please don't have Okay, I need to get on this thing. Okay, okay, that was probably my best result we just can't be stopped. See if I can get this so the beginning doesn't matter too much. Just because this is such a backing track, so at any time, if I do get behind, I can kind to be able to catch up with mushrooms and stuff and then snipe you. [laughs] I'm so mean for driving in a straight line. Sometimes you just gonna be able to snipe you however they want. Okay, I'm just--okay, I'm not gonna try Oh, it went for that person. It's pretty this race. This is really unfortunate. All here. Everyone's driving in a straight mushrooms. No, they grabbed--oh, there's Right, uh, we'll leave this right but the other Yoshi has a mushroom too. Oh, they Perfect shortcut. Let's go! I was so hopeless Well, more importantly, the Yoshi got hit with the final Yoshi color. It would be so poetic if Because also, this was the patch that added that made this combo the best one, thanks to buffs some coins right here. Slippery road. It can be to as many coins as I can to try and get away from Can I hit this thing? No, I can't. Someone Are you kidding me? I just got betrayed. I feel that was brutal. I was holding down the whole time and unfortunately, couldn't do it. [Music] I'm not in first. Brutal. Brutal. But at least I'm many close calls right now. Okay, so I'm gonna use which is right at this double item set. Oh, they didn't actually drop it, but they still Okay. Someone--someone saved me out there. Oh, there's a blue shell coming. Oh, what? I guess I'm not dodging the blue shell with that One item. That's not good. What do you have? possibly pass you? Another blue shell on the menu, of these right here, which they probably won't. This is looking rough. [Music] Third place, but first place was a Yoshi. Absolutely busted combo. I