This episode is brought to you by Skillshare. end of 2020 and it's been working well so and where my solar panel energy is directed It's been great, but there's a major gap in smart home electric panel fixed that gap in at my Powerwall and the Span Smart Panel ... and I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. To put this upfront, Span did provide their my opinions are my own. No holds barred and you for the first time. Well, unless your video early. Before I get into what exactly it's important to look more closely at how what I did. All home battery systems work in the same grid and everything in your home, so that panel production is getting funneled into of a blackout, the battery system will disconnect you don't want uncontrolled electricity going on power lines. So during a blackout the battery solar power generation and electricity use into more detail on home batteries, which But there's a wrinkle. Battery systems like power they can accept at once while charging, The best analogy is to picture a water hose. flow, and the same is true for batteries. and output about 5kW of power. The Tesla Powerwall peak, but Tesla is increasing that amount That power rating limits how much you can as well as how much solar power generation generated from solar and the system will turn with your appliances and the whole system something like a Powerwall installed you have cover all of your power needs, or if you need load with fewer batteries. Basically, you case of a blackout. Any circuits that aren't in a blackout to ensure you stay within your put things like your HVAC system, refrigerator, it's installed ... that's how it is unless changes. For my system, I was getting one Powerwall loads panel at all. That means during a blackout controlling our electricity usage. So during A/C. Making sure we turn off computers and but cheaper than hardwiring a critical loads But that's where this little beauty comes dose of smart home goodness into the mix -- and you know that I love my smart home gadgets. panel. In fact it can use traditional circuit hoops for the electrician to figure out. Since should feel right at home installing one of The unit I have here is their new second generation generation. They shaved off a few inches in to a traditional panel. The overall panel of supporting 90 amp breakers vs. the previous average home including EV charging, like my work in conjunction with Tesla Powerwall and working on adding more. In my specific case we're talking about a experience, which had nothing to do with Tesla. job. They ran communication wires on the outside own installer guidelines. I won't rehash everything; if you want to learn from my mistakes. The On the opposite end of the spectrum, I have RevoluSun who did the Span installation, Dave Cole Ashman from Span. Big thumbs up for my What makes the Span special though is literally breakers are computer controlled breakers, through the app. If you manually flick the will turn it back on. But that computer controlled control and insights into where your electricity Remember how I don't have a critical loads during a blackout to make sure I don't push let's you add circuits to a virtual critical virtual panels. You have your &quot;Must Have&quot; Essential&quot; group. With a couple of taps you whenever you like. Right now I've got things haves, but my AC, dishwasher, and stove are 50% or lower, anything in the nice to have The not essential group gets shut off immediately Even cooler is that since the Span knows how give you an estimate for how long your battery charge versus a full charge. The app shows you'll get if you move a circuit to one of This is a killer feature and really fixed setup, really. It means you can get more out Beyond that, it has some similarities to after any electric panel. I've got a couple of videos with their CEO if you'd like to see more on like Sense and Span are fairly superficial. mainly information. Span does that too, but controls ... really put it into a completely On the energy monitoring side of things, it usage I had trouble tracking down ... even circuit, I learned about some overly ambitious well as the fact that my server and networking thought (I've been making adjustments to bring ... the life of a YouTuber and needing insane Span has a brand new app to go along with You can actually go download it and use it it can do. I'd recommend checking it out. of where your power is coming and going. There's Powerwall display, which I think is a really a lot of information. But a simple scroll are using the most electricity at that moment, you have in your battery. One screen that I was surprised at how much circuits by room. I had no idea how much I The labeling in your electric panel can be Since you can add circuits to multiple rooms, track down which circuit you need to turn down to the panel to switch off a circuit, in to discover that it wasn't the right circuit. circuit it is and get to work. Now, it's definitely before doing electrical work. After confirming the panel and use the manual switch. And finally the Span app has a feed of insights circuits that had high energy usage from the and how much of your use it covered. It even solar powered, like my dishwasher a few weeks that can help you understand how to shift power and costs, especially if you live in So, is the Span Smart Panel worth it? Skillshare for sponsoring this video. They've with thousands of classes for creators ... and They've got classes for everything from writing, entrepreneurship and leadership. I've been on a major productivity kick ... working amazing productivity classes as well. And Frank (I'm really loving his videos on Skillshare), System that Works.&quot; It's all about getting you trust. I've always struggled with tossing been seen again. This has been helping me Everything on Skillshare is curated for learning, new premium classes. There's really something and growing. There's nothing better than being yesterday. The first 1,000 people to use this Thanks to Skillshare, and to all of you, for be ready and functional by 2030? So back to Given its cost, which is about $3,500, the the biggest con of the system. If you don't planning on upgrading your home's electricity for you. The cost benefit doesn't work out if you're getting solar panels and a battery electrical and panel work anyway, so I think with that install. When I was getting quotes included installing a critical loads panel, more than the Span Smart Panel costs. In that with the flexibility and added smarts of Span electrician and extra money to change ... and use. It's a pretty simple equation there. help you get more use out of fewer batteries. management means you could install one or that batteries like this typically run between the overall cost of a battery installation circuit level control that's missing from While you should only buy a product for what about the potential of the Span system. They the works that sound pretty cool, like an they'll let you know. It's a really nice is being able schedule circuits. So if you you can get scheduled smart controls out of rates since you can better control and shift at what time. And that's just a couple of And speaking of smart homes, right now the hopeful it'll open up more widely to other the rest of my smart home setup. For me that's to sing. They didn't tell me anything specific In case you couldn't tell, I really love this But what do you think? Do you have any interest system like a Tesla Powerwall? Jump into the interested in getting solar and batteries checking out my EnergySage portal. It's some great installers in your area. It is but I really do love their service. It's this video be sure to check out one of the subscribe and hit the notification bell if thanks to all of my patrons. As I mentioned of my videos. Check out the link in the description a Patreon supporter, you're still doing Thanks so much and I'll see you in the next