What's the most you'd pay $3? $4? What about $10? The near $14 Billion Shell kinds of terms organic, pasture raised. But there's a company that When I first got into the terminology all the time. An egg is an egg is an egg. restaurant and I gave him a call back. They'd say, expected it would be. This is Matt O'Hayer, founder family farms committed to quality and most ethically Today, it is the largest the US, sold in close to A growth rate from inception The model that I envisioned very similar to the model teach farmers how to in an environment that is good for the farmer to pay produce an egg that was On a national scalable. Level, there are three this story $250,000. The cost of the farm. Matt started his company The number of family farms onboarded into the network company's projected net I think people want to know because it's the most our bodies. It's not sex, Here's how What started as on a 27 acre farm grew to in the United States at This is founder effect. From the time I was eight question in my mind that I I think I calculated at one life, I've started about 50 another, large or small. A self-proclaimed serial has started everything from to a travel company. He even tried an egg prior to vital farms. Then in 1984, he met John Foods, through a friend. And he was like a mentor to As Whole Foods grew and I I loved the way he operated different it was than my which was really more money In 2006, John published an website titled Conscious The essay highlighted the should serve all customers and consumers, suppliers, the environment It starts with the idea that higher purpose than just And the analogy, which I that a company exists no human exists to make blood. We don't wake up in the work making blood. But yet if we don't, we So the profits are Maybe the unifying theme on board. There needs to be And for us, that's people, animals and the The first seed had been Matt decided that the next build would follow this It would prioritize long creators and its consumers. I thought, wow, that's a business. And it takes the trying to get rich and those important inspired by that because I exit, always focused on how Matt already had prior so in 2007, he thought he'd and give it another shot, and this time with a bigger I started with 20 Rhode basically for our own they produced. I bought bought them home and they Every one of them was named Female chickens or Sentient I mean, they have They get upset, they get get sad. And I've seen all a chicken. And to take shove them into a cage was We also found out that when and put them on a pasture, They make a different they produced a much better excited about because the The the, they were thicker, they tasted so much better, combination. Matt began selling his eggs farmers markets, all at a This is a practice they eggs costing up to $10. At the time, I had to sell dozen, and that was unheard It's more expensive to not To do the right thing is Our eggs are typically the and that's not something we It's something that we hold takes, we think, to produce should be produced. And we consumers are willing to they're looking for in this country, which is they can really trust. By 2008, Whole Foods began in the Midwest. It took off within Whole We got one region after And the way we expanded was necessarily, but through selling and selling well The Whole Foods customer was important because we're was totally different. Vital farms began to slowly farms to expand the Today, over 300 farms have joined in an area they Pasture belt is an area of found over trial and error temperatures and the that we have, where the round. We analyze those areas for patterns, to make sure that area, that farm has a great outdoor conditions Though Vital Farms has had it's not without filed. Multiple lawsuits greenwashing and the of male chick culling and I think when you produce the animals themselves or those animals, you have to to make that possible. And there's nothing that we produce. We're very The truth is that no matter the country, there are some to see producing those some way. Our focus is on egg supply chain that we shows up on our farms on where our birds live, what fundamentally better life in this country do. Growth has been quick for 2015 to over 300in 2023. However, both Russell and too much growth doesn't products. The speed at which we grow the opportunity in the ability to execute well. And executing well for me standards, making sure that for all stakeholders, which means profitable It means high quality Most recently, the company restorative farms for a new Restorative Eggs. These farms focus more on to boost soil health at These are some of the most sells. They really are using new traditional ways of farming health through reducing the soil, the use of cover and soil stability. And you can actually content and the water soil. It's a wonderful kind approach that we think is dominant way of farming in Sales overall have grown over the years. The an average of 35% every In the summer of 2020, the end of 2023. Vinyl Farms is expected to million. We've grown to become the the United States at only maybe 5 or 6% of US And so it feels like we're in that space and we have a expand and grow and bring more households. At the improve the lives of planet through food. And there are a lot more animals and a lot more land us. I think we've shocked a lot that people would be eggs. Our growth rate from tremendous. It shows that that people really care where it comes from when it