Well, everyone, it's happening, we're Jackson's adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's which means it's the season for comprehensive Jackson's adaptation is an undeniable triumph: the text, and a masterpiece of savvy fandom Jackson made extremely effective use of the curating an official fan club that lent the Whatever disagreements over adaptational decisions, stand as a masterpiece of filmmaking and an the display of a passion project wrought on with dozens of hours of documentary combing effort that went into lovingly rendering the But, before we all get swept away in that to turn some attention towards Ralph Bakshi's [Swelling Music] Now, I'm not setting out here to pit these is unavoidable. monolithic even. an entire generation was exposed to, interpretation of the text by virtue of its by virtue of looking and feeling "right" whatever that nebulous word means in this Bakshi's version is undeniably far more It is less cohesive, more reliant on an existing frustratingly paced, and ultimately incomplete. to the text, with details that are true to the literal point of those words. Many of the adaptation decisions are interesting presenting an interpretation of the text that as Jackson's. It is technologically decades ahead of itself, of technological solutions that are now standard This is a source of a lot of the film's inconsistency. There is, all-in-all a lot more to it than epic, So let me tell you the story of a coked-out desperately wanted to make. First of all, The Lord of the Rings, the book, While the component novels were published UK releases, how popular the books would be. a children's book released almost twenty A lot had changed in America since 1937, was only 1500 copies. Now, if you only print 1500 copies it's So even though that print run did sell out audience for the book of how many you should have printed. up as Houghton Mifflin opted to trickle import print runs. Somewhere in the early 1960s this triggered that, at the time, Failing to meet the quota, The Hobbit and domain in the United States to restore the copyright to a number of similarly where otherwise still-copyrighted foreign US like manufacturing requirements. But, point is, even though sales of the books of the 60s, crowd who identified with Tolkien's pastoral many of these publications, like the 150,000 weren't licensed and paid no royalties back This sparked a publicity battle over the issue, to produce an authoritative authorized paperback but is also when the books finally surge in By the 1970s the Tolkien estate was actively since a licensed adaptation would actually and interest was finally there. film rights to Lord of the Rings directly and they started trying to get a viable script The idea of a film version of Lord of the years, to the 50s, latched on to the books was increasingly proving it was still not quite mainstream popular, United Artists didn't have much luck, project rolling largely fell apart as the not because it was impossible, to do justice to the book's many grand locations The story was simply too long to realistically but setting out to make multiple films without and surely audiences would revolt over an Any attempt at the time would be too compromised and too cheap looking to satisfy anyone else. Then along comes an animator named Ralph Bakshi. Born in Palestine, but raised in Brooklyn, Everyone else is behind. I'm not ahead. doing what he believes in. I'm not ahead of is dishonest. He cut his teeth as an animator in the 1950s on television shows like Mighty Mouse, Deputy films in the 1970s. The Lord of the Rings was Bakshi's fifth as both a culmination of his technical interests utilizing mixed media as both a cost saving and the ways in which it deviates from Bakshi's Bakshi was raised in the densely urban Brooklyn a historically poor neighbourhood that while saw a heavy influx of Black residents through This multiracial urban milieu forms the foundation his first three films are all considered part but, before that, need to back up to the sixties again. The sixties were not kind to theatrical animation Owing to shifts in the way that movies were shorts became less financially viable, and to the rapidly expanding market of television, Theatrical animation was largely the domain Walt had been an absolutely titanic figure but on that front things were not great: his and the output of the studio dropped precipitously While the studio had managed to put out a months on average over the course of the 40s they only managed to complete three films One Hundred and One Dalmatians, The Sword the animation studio relying mostly on reissues While these films performed commercially well, hit releasing in 1967 as Walt Disney's final they were not particularly challenging. Pinocchio, Cinderella, Snow White, Fantasia, And the follow up, the first feature after which is just the absolute pinnacle of Disney's So this is what feature animation looks like is what you've grown up with. always something on the periphery, animation is safe, bright, unscary, trapped In 1968 Ralph Bakshi, moving into his 30s of the industry, in Brooklyn. Rocket Robin Hood and Spider-Man, films. including The Lord of the Rings which he had broke out in the 60s. dozen projects in parallel, with United Artists who held the film rights the first film he was able to secure full Robert Crumb's underground hit Fritz the Released in 1972 with an X rating the film violent, unfocused, aggressively political, Despite the rating limiting distribution options, of all things Disney drew in a worldwide audience a budget of somewhere between $700,000 and Following the success of Fritz the Cat Bakshi quasi-autobiography, pseudo-crime film Heavy While not the astronomic success of Fritz, comparably slim budget and is considered a Both of these films did well with critics Personally I think Heavy Traffic is the better film from the era, sensibilities as a creative. There is a fixation on Black culture, the in America, with the results of the counterculture movement, of society is arranged to maintain an underclass. Artistically there is a fascination with the Photographs of real locations are used as and many backgrounds in Heavy Traffic are Both films use some documentary recording captured by Bakshi while walking around Harlem on the streets or in bars. &gt;&gt; Man 1: Look, I'm paying my taxes. &gt;&gt; Man 1: Hey! &gt;&gt; Man 1: No, what I'm talking about happening, I'm talking about as far as, some bread first, and then you can talk trash. There's also a pervasive horniness as it's a breast popping out for no reason, extended into bloody hyperviolence, queer characters. sympathetic to drag queens, trans women, and they clearly form an integral part of the to simulate in his art, enough to be physically brutalized as a condemnation While these two films demonstrated that adult-oriented successful, of animation. While there was some attempt by others to in America, quickly repackaging English dubs of adult Bakshi would follow this up with his most an adaptation of the Uncle Remus stories transplanting gangster story in Harlem. alongside contemporary blaxploitation films Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song, Dolemite, and has been praised for the depth of the such as including details from the African it also heavily utilizes historical racist There's a lot of debate about the artistic whether or not the use of this imagery is that created the imagery in the first place, and whether or not protests of the film in but reflecting on it 45 years later the main at play, film, that he grew up in, as a part of. And reception was far from universal. it, and according to Bakshi the Wu Tang Clan love It's a very complicated intersection of on the question of whether or not this was Modern commentators have compared it favorably And I guess at the end of the day the meat suck. [Indistinct Italian Noises] Coonskin was not successful, and did slow but it was still a relatively inexpensive to his career as a director. During post-production on Coonskin Bakshi another street film, this time set in the but one in which animated and live-action Warner Brothers agreed to finance the film and the live action footage was shot, largely However the film would never be completed as the process of having live action and animated intensive to complete on the film's budget A rotoscoping rig was built at Bakshi's process, Warner Brothers led to the film's release being shelved indefinitely. While Hey Good Lookin' was trapped in post-production friendly" feature, Wizards, focused films into an explicit genre film. "Family friendly" is a bit of a weird deliberately aimed at adults rather than an but it's also a lot tamer with less sex, The film was moderately successful, enough which is somewhat impressive given that the Aside from some notable iconography and some suffers from all the disjointed scene composition While that works for Heavy Traffic, a film their way in a disjointed world, plot-heavy there's an entire movie's worth Illuminating history bearing on the everlasting The first blast was set off by five terrorists Delia felt a pull from the sky were not ordinary twins return and make this a planet where mutants Politically the film is bizarre. about the anti-war movement, a literal fantasy land of mushrooms and rainbows mutants hopped up on Nazi propaganda skeleton Hitler, to make them coherent or interesting, treacle and deeply cynical. It's not cohesive in style, the characters films, uncomfortable rather than sexy, and it's The most notable elements of the film are The film was being financed by Fox, and Bakshi Lucas, and the two became professional acquaintances. of War Wizards to avoid conflict with Star Mark Hamil take time off from Star Wars to I'm Shaun, leader of the Knights of Stardust fairies. It's also the first film where Bakshi really action footage, to save budget on animating large battle scenes. The film was moderately successful, but Ralph's when Star Wars, replaced it in theatres. Parallel to the production of most of these who have been stalling out on all their attempts Bakshi says he pitched UA on an animated Lord bite. him a chance, films plus something Hobbit related. written in 1970 by then-tv-writer John Boorman, and directed Zardoz. The gun is good There was some conflict over the script, because, well, it is absolutely buckwild with a Galadriel/Frodo Aragorn and Boromir kissing passionately with the history of the ring presented as a rock and Gimli is rebirthed in mud to recall the Bakshi convinced Dan Melnyk at MGM to buy script out and start over, which they do. So Bakshi starts over on the script with novice but when Dan Melnick gets ousted from MGM seem to know or care about the project at so Bakshi gets in touch with Saul Zaentz, and convinces him to buy out the project from Artists. Incidentally Zaentz goes beyond this, stage, and merchandising rights, lead, decades later, The Hobbit: Battle of Five Armies Why does it hurt so much? Unsatisfied with Conkling's work Bakshi Beagle, which Bakshi and Zaentz are mostly happy with, Rings film is full-steam-ahead. Before the movie even hits theatres, though, The first is obviously Bakshi's reputation Is Gandalf going to whip his dick out and Will pipe-weed be some dank bud? The second is Rankin/Bass, an American production specials by outsourcing animation to Japan. Rankin/Bass had been working on an adaptation it was looking to broadcast by 77. a sequel to their Hobbit film utilizing large Both of these would conflict with any Lord particularly once Bakshi convinced them the since audiences would assume they were all But, since the books were still public domain, at least within the US, in securing a broadcast agreement in Canada. Mm, my precious, will it taste delicious? Bakshi's production, even after settling but mostly in a way that's probably better The script was overhauled several times, of the books should or could be adapted into Bakshi and Beagle ultimately pushed for two the first encompassing Fellowship and Two and intended for this film to be subtitled but United Artists waffled on committing to They didn't outright say no, in a way that everything to one film, but they also left the fate of Part 2 in the happens." Of course as history has already borne out, and the film ends with a disorientingly quick Battle of Helm's Deep is in fact the deciding Released in 1978, reaction was lukewarm, but Most of Bakshi's idiosyncrasies as a director Sort of. whips their dick out, everyone's tits stay skits inserted haphazardly to pad runtime, the sense that the vast majority of the dialogue But, and this is probably its greatest flaw, focus on the story at hand. Jackson's films, especially Fellowship, Jackson's films are focused and cohesive. and big emotions, the unbreakable bond of loss, and swelling moments of triumph. You bow to no one. Jackson gets how the characters and plot interweave, big adventure changes the characters, have the whole. So here's the problem: Bakshi just isn't He learned his craft working on slapstick just a series of vignettes. and Fritz the Cat and Coonskin are both adapted This is not strictly a criticism, it works it's not a bad style, there's nothing it just needs the right material. But then you get Wizards, which is supposed heavy on worldbuilding, Unimportant skits drag for minutes, and important moments resolve in seconds. While less extreme than Wizards, this is unfortunately Bakshi was, for most of the 70s, both extremely and also allegedly on a lot of drugs. conducive to making a film that maintains it shows. The film has a lot of content to try and fit and yet the flight at the ford is an interminably off a horse. The story is presented very literally, lifted but with little weight for how it all connects This creates a notable problem when the film because the adaptation is so faithful to the of the movie, but it just keeps going. Also the second half of the film is pretty The sequences get really muddled, a lot of presumably to have been picked up in part and there are more and more animation shortcuts constraints. On one hand, the sheer volume of roto done immense, like this where you can just outright see While otherwise the backgrounds in the film evocative abstract non-landscapes, background or distance is filled with stock On top of the shortcuts, Bakshi is just generally and geography of his fight scenes, and the muddy, high contrast artwork doesn't Then at the end Gandalf rides in and the narrator but also maybe stay tuned for part two? The forces of darkness were driven forever valiant battle ended, so too ends the first It's not a strong ending. The film mixes animation styles in a way that on-the-fly and how a scene ends up looking that week, in its own way, that there wasn't a committed idea everyone that the ultimate creative vision was driven For The Lord of the Rings Bakshi utilized based on rotoscoping, Some of this involves using the live action the final product being a complete replacement, effectively just augmenting the original footage and sometimes it's effectively just a colourization And, no, that's not being snide, an actual 80s involved photocopying line work done on lines to be used without inking. gives One Hundred and One Dalmatians its distinctly If used on a photograph, however, it crushes image to solid blacks and whites. The second major technique used is solarization, cinematographer Timothy Galfas. is a tricky process where the black and white then instead of being sent through a process the part of development that stabilizes the the image is re-exposed to light, and sent time. This technique, applied to photochemical film, largely relying on trial and error to get but the successful end product is a partially with a common artefact being a strong border which can look kinda like an inked outline. Bakshi felt this stylization process was sufficiently movie and allow them to use footage of large which were ultimately faster and cheaper to frame-by-frame, even from a reference. All of these different techniques are combined movie. sometimes it's merely colourized, coloured background. The extensive amount of rotoscoping and re-purposed to shoot basically the entire film as live with reference performers, stunt performers, so the two year production involved essentially first in the live action shoot in Madrid, There's a somewhat apocryphal story in all In shooting the footage they didn't really telephone wires, cars, airplanes, bicycles, because it didn't really matter, it wasn't According to Bakshi the Spanish developers understand that the footage was a reference thought that this was, instead, incredibly Madrid a bad name, I'm repeating the story because it's kinda but also it's a bit too weird and sensational, is, let's just say, prone to exaggeration. Like he'll say they had six hundred animators it was more like fifty. I was over in Spain shooting major live action studio back in New York animating, I'm fielding at the studio, I'm shooting an entire live with Zaentz at night who wants to be talked Or this bit from a 2006 interview with Underground "I had the X rating on my films and that was all a misunderstanding of me being too on The Simpsons as I got an X rating for Fritz And, like... no? No Ralph. No they don't. I am very curious what Ralph Bakshi thinks On the whole the film is a mixed bag, there's get right? A lot, actually. Whoah, Sam Gamgee, your legs are too short The vocal performances, in particular, are The voice actors do well with Tolkien's distinct and appropriate. One thing that's often cited as a stand as Aragorn, and for good reason, it's fantastic. "It matters. We still have a long road and "Why? We have no hope without Gandalf, you "Then we must do without hope! There is Gruff, yet warm, there's a lot to love about John Hurt was a great actor and he absolutely here. And it meshes well with Bakshi's naturalistic the characters that are not so much the protagonists to solve a problem. "We have no choice, Aragorn!" "That would take the ring too close to Isengard "And yet you would risk the mines of Moria" While Bakshi is bad at pacing and action, between characters, from these interactions, the small physical actions that punctuate Scenes like Boromir's death hold sufficient the reference acting, animation, and vocal work, Just the clink and clank of equipment, the and a mature tenderness as the three pay respect And there's little moments, just great touches like Sam and Frodo paddling in opposite directions the rhythm of it is spot on, the emotion that underlies the dialogue. production would miss. The twitchy, feral movements of the black think it works. way, simply stop behaving like this after the Prancing Again, consistency is a problem. There's also small adaptational decisions. that basically any cinematic adaptation will what it doesn't. are there's a lot they had to leave behind. Like this little moment, after Gandalf opens "so all you had to do was say 'friend' "Those were happier times" It's a great little touch to include, because reader, is that they're over-thinking the that the troubles facing the Fellowship, the culture of fear, a culture of security and that leads Gandalf to assume the answer is It's a melancholic point about how the people and isolated, "friend" feels like a trick. Bakshi's film is basically the only adaptation Wraiths at the ford. "By all the Shire, you shall have neither I also really like the introduction, presented acted and looks like community theatre, but like it could just as well be an in-universe You've got actors who are clearly trying swords, shooting the footage in slow motion, but the fact that it's so evidently low-budget, Now, unfortunately, for all the things that that I think work, there's a lot that doesn't, coming together into a cohesive whole. Like, for example, the Balrog. Alright, so, a bit of a side-track with the One of the biggest running arguments in Tolkien have wings or does it merely have a form that Or does it have neither wings nor a form evocative but an incorporeal aura of darkness that projects part of the substance or form of the Balrog's The relevant passages from the book are in writes about the Balrog two vast wings..." "It stepped forward onto the bridge, and and its wings were spread from wall to wall;" This apparent conflict between a stylistic formed the foundation of a half-century long of a mythological demon. As of June 2021 the Tolkien Society FAQ still Wings? Can they Fly?" each individual reader to decide." Quora, the spiritual successor to Yahoo Answers, Bakshi, perhaps unknowingly, stepped right wings, of the Hildebrandt brothers' Balrog from The 1987 calendar featured a wingless Balrog John Howe's 1996 painting "Gandalf Falls demon. Peter Jackson threaded the needle with a Balrog though it still definitely has wings. Video games also alternate between wings and Tolkien hack David Day's "A Tolkien Bestiary" authoritative "The Complete Guide to Middle The online Encyclopedia of Arda, dating back for the entry on Balrogs summarizing both though ultimately errs on the side of no wings The start of this argument, naturally, just The Balrog were created with intent by Melkor, and if the Balrog has wings then surely it which leads to arguments about the nature since, after all, even if it has wings it's couldn't just hover. but they would plummet. can't just take off from a standstill. But this argument also neglects to consider with intent by one Tolkien and wings are both rad and badass, And anyway if Balrog have wings why couldn't Now, the wings are not something that particularly The Hildebrandt painting is actually my earliest of the book Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt, when I was a kid, so this is already a formative Clearly the actual fact of wings is secondary image of Gandalf as a point of light standing The actual problems with the Balrog here in of themselves, and, most importantly, is really poorly animated. good at momentum. Motion and momentum are core elements of animation, struggled with. was tied to this. means the momentum problem solves itself. is already real, it's done for you, boom. Of course animated momentum and real momentum and your rotoscope is only going to look as which is going to be really hard to get right to shoot some reference footage of. This is a moment where the realism of rotoscoping because we are, unfortunately, seeing through trying to mime being really big by just moving It's not dynamic, it's not threatening, This is a running thing through the film, weight to their movement. prop swords at each other, pulling their punches But since the reference is being traced frame-by-frame animation. effective sense of weight and sometimes it This also leaves behind a number of strange They're few and far between, but there's tight, where characters drift out of frame where the positioning of characters is normally The pitfall of a rotoscoped film is that the The reference performers aren't simply providing idea, their performance is the performance, And that's really the word of the day, isn't The biggest failings of Bakshi's Lord of Sometimes the reference actors are giving loosely miming the actions. other times the actors just swing their swords Scenes change style and grain and texture multiple different styles across the film Heck, sometimes characters switch techniques as with Aragorn running down this hallway. There's also a thing that happens a few to fully animate, their capture, shape: super grainy, and the whole image just turns A much-commented on quirk of the movie is around really aimlessly. issue, as it's a very community theatre over-using their hands. The Nazgul and orcs being mostly paint-over with much of the actual costumes still visible, but is undercut by the fact that the fellowship, their live action counterparts being extremely Even the full replacement trace-overs aren't so chaotic, with linework that squiggles a intrusive when characters stop moving entirely, between actions. I don't begrudge the animators for saving but the style very much accentuates the effect Treebeard is pretty much the only character scratch, extreme end of the spectrum, cartoonish, production like the Racoons than the comparably And while that heavier animation generally the increased fidelity will, again, work against as any time the lip sync is off it feels really "Whereout I to start?" There's also an issue with the dialogue a lot of places is stilted, and the recording The micro-pacing of dialogue that makes it always there, which can make conversations drag and feel "I'll give it to you Gandalf! You're "No! Do not tempt me!" This is a result of the production process. reasons they apparently didn't have a multi-track having their performance superimposed on the which is substantially different from other work from the actor's performance by the animators. recording sessions with the cast as a group, required to leave a long two-second pause could try and line the two performances up. I mean, I can see the logic there. that affords you a lot of freedom, done so that the other half can match it, convenient and then merge them later, lost in that process. On the whole the film's pacing is just really Some sequences, like the flight to the ford length, incredibly rushed. truncated, the Fellowship, sure if I had bumped the remote and skipped Merry and Pippin vanish from the film entirely unproduced sequel, undeniably sudden. towards the Dead Marshes, and are never seen One particular oddity is that Saruman is alternately "I must go south now, to consult with the "I have come for your aid, Saruman the White, This bizarre inconsistency is the result of the antagonists, Saron and Saruman, sounded which is fair enough as an adaptation change, Beagle began swapping the names back to Saruman. "Saruman of Many Colours!" If there is something you can say is missing Earth itself. Bakshi and Jackson is the starkest. preference, which lines and details were included, one area where the older film is undeniably And this is a meaningful absence. the Rings because Lord of the Rings is as itself as it is about violence against the And while Bakshi's artists are able to visualize both the fantastic and the quaint, just as abstraction, into nowhere in particular. Though there is an isolated artistry to these as an expression of the text, camera turned towards the beauty of New Zealand. of the message: the world is worth saving, and not just the Tolkien's notoriously florid descriptions as they are of forest and mountain. This is the biggest missed step of the old the vision of Middle Earth not just as a land power, and poisonous runoff of industry. Ultimately the biggest flaw of the film is Not uninteresting, but all these issues add aren't particularly noteworthy. after the death of Boromir that's really and given that his funeral is eighty-five demarcation point between two parts of the it's already a decent feature length, so blame you. There's also a deeper issue that kinda cuts and it's that the film relies a lot on an Now, I don't think this is a conscious reliance, tried to create a telling of the story that's but there's enough holes, enough things that there's definitely the sense that things the keen awareness that this is an abridgement and so bits are included for the sake of being the best version of the story for the medium. I said this cuts two ways and that's because on its own, companion to the novel, text is able to fill the gaps and their imagination it all out, visualization and realization of the story. Part of the trouble in researching the film of the film it's not even entirely clear or if the whole film was meant to be conventionally then they decided to rotoscope nearly the or if at one point they were even considering a live-action film. made more or less on the fly in 1976, a reflection Hey Good Lookin'. I don't want to say that this is a film who didn't get the source material. a film made by creatives who cared, with the source material, by creatives who were very distracted, focused principally on working quickly and to get things done. And, to be clear, that's not a moral failing, getting the film done, than picking fights with the studio. film in two years. It's amazing that the whole thing didn't that the final result is not only reasonably brilliant. So, the movie comes out with the title The United Artists felt that no one would want Of course that seems ridiculous today, what serial franchises, The two part film didn't really exist yet, and more along the lines of James Bond, single cohesive story with meaningful continuity. But, still, a "to be continued" would While Bakshi had done some press where he get to make the rest of the story with part the media landscape is entirely different There isn't a massive ecosystem of entertainment there's no fan blogs hanging off every detail so the general audience impression going in Fans of the book are, of course, caught off after the Battle of Helm's Deep, but on the whole audiences are pretty receptive Critics are lukewarm but consensus is ultimately Roger Ebert's bottom line summary is, I "In sum, Bakshi has succeeded better at at bringing his story to fruition." And that's kinda where things have stayed. over the decades since. devoid of charm. high-intensity action/adventure, books are, themselves, so very often quiet The film was successful, it turned a reasonable Bakshi was feeling burnt out on working on and leadership changes at United Artists in to the momentum of the project that attempts Bakshi would continue to use rotoscoped animation though audience interest waned as the style lush and intricate animation of its big budget and as Bakshi seemingly ran out of energy Hey Good Lookin' was eventually released the film having been essentially re-made as of seven years, of the rotoscoping remained. of Heavy Traffic, anger that gives that film its bite. I dunno, maybe it was just Bakshi getting maybe you just couldn't sell an anti-cop He eventually retired from feature films after a film that was, ironically, not nearly as But as a pure quirk of coincidence the animated incomplete, domain status of the books, in 1980, up shortly after Bakshi's film ends. Rankin/Bass Return of the King had been storyboarded but it also didn't really start serious So while the film wasn't intended to capitalize it still did. Mostly bad in an annoying way and very cheaply this TV movie is largely unmemorable save a Whip There's a Way" "where there's a whip [whipcrack] there's Of course then, a little over twenty years puppet movies, adaptation of The Lord of the Rings and it's "Come on Mister Frodo, I can't carry it Ultimately the legacy of Bakshi's film is Techniques that were odd and unique are, today, He didn't invent any of them, strictly speaking, old, way that they're applied, its time, and would continue to change. changed the arc of history, the way that these technologies would be applied, decades before the tech was actually ready. Bakshi understood that the greatest limitation world itself, photographs of actors, maybe painting on them and placing them into animated environments, Marvel movie. For twenty years now it's been routine for see, that are created out of whole cloth by The modern look of films is defined by actors that's limiting or suggestive of the final before artists go in and paint the rest of Taking a physical performance and duplicating once the odd fixation of a few weirdos from In a weird way Bakshi's Lord of the Rings with 1970s technology. And, in the end, he would ultimately be vindicated. mature, could be dramatic, could be adult, The Lord of the Rings, be relegated to mere novelty status. his work in the 70s more or less set the tone which was dominated by the dark, often sombre Because everything is connected, Rankin/Bass The Last Unicorn into a haunting and mature Even Disney, on the verge of bankruptcy, would of a midcentury fantasy epic with the notorious Then, of course, The Simpsons would begin in 1993 MTV began a late night block of adult to cerebral, would go from being a niche import to a staple So, that's the story of Bakshi and the Ring. of the Rings is a summary of what I find compelling whole, and occasionally brilliant.