Colossal Questions. Why don't Americans Even though there's tons like Brooklynese in the most people think of for Americans and the English. The typical English accent is English, and the accent of as having no accent American or newscaster accent. OK, so now that we've got that When English settlers first in the early 1600s, they because, well, they Seems pretty simple, right? Well, not quite. You see, they weren't speaking that we recognize today. So what did their accent Well, we don't know for to record anyone's but we do know the difference their R's. In those days, English people meaning they pronounce the R in So, for example, it would instead of pahk the cah. It wasn't until the early 1800s fashionable among Over the next century, became the standard The upper class still had close ties to England, and Boston, started using this but it wasn't long have an accent all their own. In the late 1800s power and influence began that were more populated by descent who spoke with As this new generation came to power across the slowly went away and the spread across the country. So did Americans ever speak Yup, but it probably sounded than you'd think. What is Juneteenth? The name Juneteenth the day Juneteenth is Why June 19? Well, that was the arrived in Galveston, Texas to make sure all formerly were freed. This was a full two months and 2 and 1/2 years after was signed. This executive order was on January 1, 1863. It stated that all enslaved that were rebelling against &quot;shall be then, thenceforward This freed all slaves On paper, at least. In reality, the didn't free anyone right away. It applied to places which meant that, in enforced once Union of Confederate territory. The problem was in a far-flung state stayed on the outskirts No major battles were fought so there were no Union But that finally changed when Union troops arrived and read General Orders &quot;The people of that, in accordance from the executive of the United So Juneteenth marks of the end of slavery Just a few months later, was formally abolished Also known as Freedom Day, or Emancipation has been celebrated each year Over the years, the has spread all and in 1980, Texas to make it an official By 2006, 14 more states and just two years later, observed Juneteenth. By 2019, 47 states has recognized Juneteenth, South Dakota, and Hawaii. As of 2021, it's as a national holiday, but with to celebrate the holiday it's only a matter that changes for good and Can the US President Let's get right to it. Most leading experts the sitting president This is because arresting would make it pretty hard for And if someone actually tried it wouldn't go so well. Presidents are constantly called the Secret Service. If any police officer to walk up and Secret Service could from the arresting officer. So the US President can't happens if they commit a crime? That could trigger a process is a fancy official way we have a good reason to a crime. From there, the trial to a normal trial If the president they're removed from office, and But it's very rare for First of all, happen if a majority of Congress vote for it. That means just one against the president. It takes hundreds of elected Because it can be a president without only happened twice in the and both presidents A third President, Richard but he resigned before of office for orchestrating His vice president, Gerald after he resigned, scrubbed by pardoning him. So, in other words, either don't break be friends with Why are ancient It turns out there are why ancient ruins are Sometimes, archeologists that were buried back like graveyards or trash pits. Abandoned cities in can gradually become of decaying plants build up. Ruins in unstable places, get slowly swallowed Occasionally, a like an earthquake, can destroy a city all at once. So that's why some but what about the rest of them or buried in lava? The answer actually has a and a lot more to In the ancient weren't exactly built to last. They were made of which aren't very durable. When a house or building the rain, wind, snow, would turn the muddy rubble When the next person came on the same spot, they build on top of the This process happens and again and again, voila, the rubble of an ancient More durable ancient buildings are usually only These kinds of buildings when humans get involved. Medieval and would reuse pieces of ancient In some cases, and new structures were built Complete destruction tended to speed up And there was plenty of Conquering nations would on top of the ruins of the Once a city is abandoned erosion or other grind the rubble into a on the landscape. Over time, archeologists to look for these So keep your eyes open next That weird-looking be a majestic lost city, or How did the Olympics start? The very first Olympic date back thousands of years to named Elis. And that's just the first Most experts believe the 500 years old by then. So needless to say, it's one athletic competitions. Just like today, were held every four years and across Greece to compete. Early Olympic games of foot races and wrestling, the Greeks added other games, chariot racing, and for heralds and trumpeters. The more grueling events to create larger contests, includes a foot race, the and wrestling. With the rise of the popularity and diminished in favor of and other Roman competitions. Finally, in 393 CE, decided to officially declaring it far too Christian Empire. Just like that, the were gone for good, Around the time of people began to get interested It became a major and got people thinking about including the Olympics. In 1892, the ball when a French historian Pierre de Coubertin made a the Olympic Games as a modern every four years, bringing glory countries. Two years later, Pierre's and the modern Olympics to start planning. The International Olympic and the first games for 1896 in where else, but By the 1924 Olympics in competed, including from 44 different countries. That's also the year were first introduced. Nowadays, the Olympic games international Many of the world's compete in hundreds of events honing their skills in every four years. 2020 Summer Olympic Games in but once it finally will be 339 different There will be five new surfing, sport climbing, will debut, and both will be back in the Olympics They're also adding within sports that already basketball and freestyle BMX. So get ready, because it's like it's always been. Why do countries have flags? Thousands of years started flying all ancient armies, like the carried special symbols into These early ancestors were fairly different from For starters, they These vexilloids were with a giant carved The Romans took this tradition, managed to make it their own. Roman soldiers with shiny metal eagles The change from 3D objects didn't take hold until the Silk was a highly and trading of silk happened Road. The Chinese Silk Road through the Middle East, came into fashion. These flags helped depending on the fabric Lower level officers usually while high ranking have woven silk flags or gold thread. Eventually, cloth flags across the Silk Road to Europe started using flags as a on the battlefield. Those flags identified a land, or noble titles. OK, so that's where but when did they change to a symbol for each country? Well, you can thank the for that. The simple red, of the Revolutionary were very distinct from all Since the revolutionaries were or queen, they designed and most importantly, kings and queens flew. For the first time, meant to represent an rather than just a As these revolutionary more and more countries wanted as representations and before long, countries had flags of their very own. Why is the Pride flag a rainbow? The rainbow flag dates all 1978, to be exact. That was the year that a activists, designed the very first This ragtag group of flag to a famous gay named Harvey Milk and got behind the project. They wanted to could fly over the Pride city of San Francisco. The team quickly landed because rainbows are natural, The collection of colors since there are LGBTQ people ages, genders, everywhere. The theory first flag looked we know today. It had eight straights with a pink at the between the green When they took their it turned out that the make flags in around 25 weren't available. So the team made and came back with the flag we know today. Each individual color has its orange for healing, yellow for blue for serenity, and The bright, colorful for the first time in the on June 25, 1978. People at the parade proudly helping make it an Over the years, the flag In 2017, one of the members made a variation on adding a ninth lavender diversity. A year later, in called the Progress created to bring attention communities of color, with five colors, black, brown, The Black and brown marginalized LGBTQ The pink, light blue, are a nod to the So that's where the but it does seem safe to say to evolve over the years. After all, there's lots of Did pirates bury treasure? It turns out that the pillaging and plundering, there real-life pirates and it wasn't how you Maybe the most famous example named Sir Francis Drake. A privateer was basically a They were paid by the to hunt down and capture A privateer was usually one particular ship for So Drake might not have but he lived the In 1573, Drake and of Spanish gold and silver. In an attempt to keep it they decided to bury the coast. But unlike a Drake didn't leave He left guards with came back to get it once OK, so if in real buried any treasure, then why pirates doing it today? A lot of modern pirate myths can from 1833 called Treasure Island His book is about Caribbean and its depiction of about every swashbuckling In the book, pirates wearing eye patches, peg They're often bloodthirsty, and might even have a parrot And they always bury and draw a treasure These things were all that were added into the book but none of them were common First of all, there have all around the world, not Famous pirates held from and all sorts of other places and traditions. So pirates weren't quite like buried their treasure, they do with all that plunder? The answer is simpler They spent it. Pirates loved to and have a good time and a heaping helping keep the good times rolling. Even still, there are that some lost pirate buried in the wild So next time you're alone you may as well bring