(light music) - [Jon] Your typical sports team doesn't really have an origin myth, they just file the paperwork and they start playing and that's that. The Minnesota Vikings, The first was discovered in a little more than a hundred One day, a farmer called over his neighbors to check out an ancient-looking stone bearing strange carvings on his property. A professor from the University it as a suspicious mashup from separate eras. And it was left there by from many centuries ago, he saw that it was very obviously a fake and said so to anybody who would listen. The people of Kensington would not listen, and instead they chose more opportunistic academic who showed up and declared that the rune dating back to the year 1362. Was it all that hard to buy into? After all, it's known that to briefly settle in centuries before Columbus Surely those Viking longships through the Great Lakes. of Newfoundland, to a that's about as far west as Dallas. Same difference, right? In his book, &quot;Myths of historian David M. Krueger like this one was custom-engineered of Scandinavian immigrants to buy into. If their ancestors had more than 500 years prior, it was a sign that they were that it purged them of that was stolen from Native Americans. We're not picking on Minnesota here, because this is a much more To tell you one example of many, one fringe theory claims and Alexander the Great are This one seems downright In as late as the 1960s, when began play, a poll of Minnesotans still bought into it. The supposed artifact is and its official website owes its name to the Kensington Runestone. Today this legend manifests in many ways, the most outrageous of which of the Minnesota Vikings: the gjallarhorn. It's pretty goofy, which is It's a big, huge horn and is sounded by a special guest or Vikings legend before every game. And here, before the 2016 home opener, the man of the hour is of the Minnesota Vikings' This story also concerns a horn, but it's a little bit more (horn blares) (light music) In November of 1940, a who goes by &quot;Bud,&quot; is waiting on the shore of Yellow Lake, Wisconsin, some 40 miles from his home in Minnesota. They're duck hunting, but so far today, they All of a sudden, the Ducks start flying all over the place. Bud shoots one with a single-shot rifle, then another, then another. He's having the time of his life. The ducks are responding to known as the Armistice Days earlier, a low in the Pacific Northwest, wreaking havoc and, among other things, causing the Tacoma Narrows and eventually crumble This system has traveled eastward in recent days. Now it's here. The resulting blizzard across the state of Minnesota. Winds are swelling to of 50 miles per hour, and the temperature is dipping toward the negatives at a seemingly impossible rate. By the time Bud and his friend realize they need to get back to the cabin, it's right on top of them. This is already a matter As they stumble through the bog, Bud's friend falls It isn't long before his and he says he can't go on any further. Bud looks around and sees nothing but pure white in every direction. There's no visibility. He has no idea which But he insists, over and over, that he's not leaving his friend anywhere. They have to keep moving. Neither are dressed for They're surely minutes from death if they can't find their way to shelter. Bud presses on, picking a with no idea whether they're And then he hears a horn. A train rumbles along the tracks up ahead, and although Bud can't It's all he needs. Bud follows the tracks that Over the ensuing days, the two crowding into a stranded to generate body warmth, and marching miles in the Bud Grant and his friend survive. Over the ensuing years, Grant emerges as a spectacular, He's drafted by the Lakers, where he emerges as a fan favorite, and alongside stars like George He's also drafted in the first round by the Philadelphia Eagles, Soon after, he moves north in the Canadian Football League, and at just 29 years of age, he becomes the head coach of He leads the Bombers to in his first three seasons. In 1961, the NFL's come calling and offer Grant declines and returns to Winnipeg, where he quickly wins two more Grey Cups. In 1967, the Vikings' coaching and this time he finally Bud Grant did not found the Vikings. Had he never come back home, a team named the Minnesota He did, however, build the Many decades later, he writes if he had not heard that horn. (soft music) (soft music continues) The NFL has existed since 1920, but it didn't really until it started playing Super Bowls. At the beginning of this most of the 32 teams we know and as you'd expect, in every direction. Here we'll see their win differential within the Super Bowl era at the end of each year. For example's sake, if your you've won 10 more games than you've lost. And if it's -10, you've lost 10 more games than you've won. It gives us no pleasure to are the worst team of the Super Bowl era, having lost 152 more The other losing teams as of going from worst to least bad, Arizona Cardinals, Atlanta New York Jets, Cincinnati New Orleans Saints, New Buffalo Bills, Chicago Los Angeles Chargers, Oddly, there's a noticeable gap separating the losers from the winners here, as though the break-even and requires them to choose There's no mathematical reason but it's nice for sorting purposes. The winning teams are the Seattle Seahawks, Philadelphia Indianapolis Colts, Baltimore Kansas City Chiefs, Denver Miami Dolphins, Green Bay Packers, New England Patriots ... Minnesota Vikings. Only two teams, the Dallas have a better win within the Super Bowl era. In 2022, these Vikings just following a 13-4 season. And the win that pushed them over the top was one of the most ludicrous Like most franchises, the from era to era, and from year to year. At different points in its history, a team might find itself worried about, laughed at, hated, or forgotten about entirely. And entering Week 15 of the 2022 season, fans across the NFL see Their surprising 10-3 record, it's believed, is fraudulent, slapped together by a series over mediocre teams. Whenever they faced a of the Cowboys or the Eagles, they've been totally blown out. So far this season they allowed more points than they've scored. How can a team with 10 be collectively outscored What kind of a shell Well today, they find the these questions for just a little bit. They're at home, hosting that's in a state of total This is a special Saturday and that means there won't in progress and they'll have all of America's undivided attention. Maybe they can finally pick and cast the image of a Well, in front of their home the Vikings completely shit their pants. (upbeat music) What used to be slander is This team is a joke. By halftime, these decidedly by a score of 33-0. Let's look at every game in NFL history in which the home team This has happened a lot of times, and as all these green dots indicate, it's a navigable situation. You can still come back and win if the halftime deficit isn't too big. Within this sample, the has been from 24 points down though. 33 points? No comeback even remotely In fact, being down this is something that's only The Vikings are losing in every way. They've even lost the room. As halftime strikes, the as passionate and loyal as any in the NFL, aggressively booes them Hard to blame 'em. - [Announcer] Not so joyous here. - [Alex] As for what we worth of prior NFL The Vikings do get to start where the first steps of are three plays that combine to produce ... negative-eight yards. Punt. Exactly how they drew it up. Half's off to a rollicking start. Their next series, they an 88-yard drive that ends that at least gets 'em on the board. The Colts respond with a long field goal that bumps their lead to 29, but the Vikings have found and march 75 yards to with a minute and change When Minnesota's defense they're able to quickly get the ball back, giving them a chance to tack on a third TD when Colts corner on an inside move just two That's a fun and cute scoring onslaught, but their hole was so deep, kicking off down 15 points. And they're in even worse shape midway through the quarter when an ill-advised deep But Indy's continued gives the Vikes a glimmer of hope. Getting the ball back it only takes about 90 seconds for them to cut through the Colts' and set up a one-yard touchdown pass to make it a one-score game Indy finally is able keep the clock running, And right when they're on the knockout punch ... they This time, however, and a turnover on downs to any thoughts of a miracle comeback, especially with the Colts getting ready to run a 4th-and-inches play where, with the Vikings out of timeouts, a conversion will ice the game. But Indy's offensive line any push on a quarterback Needing to go 64 yards in they don't exactly need that much time. Their first play is a quick Rodney McLeod could easily bring to an end after a gain of about 10 a horrible angle and Toss in another 1 ... 2 ... 3 and we're a two-point which the Vikes do indeed against all odds, send In the extra frame, the teams trade punts, making a tie a very strong sits on the outskirts of field goal range with 20 seconds left. But they're able to move get an additional five thanks and boot home the the record-breaking comeback. - [Announcer] And the kick is good! It's a winner. (upbeat music) - [Jon] Thanks to this win, a win the likes of which and might never see again, the 108 games above .500, beating by just one win to finish in the Super Bowl era. That's no small feat, had spent nearly the entire 21st Century building the greatest Of course, that came on of largely underwhelming football. The Vikings are unique in a long, protracted slide. Even the Cowboys, the their share of lean years. They most closely resemble although even they took quite So. The Minnesota Vikings. We have a very long answer for you, and that answer might be from the one you'd get from Vikings fans, which neither Alex nor myself are. That's why, for instance, you'll hear more about Brock Lesnar than We'll talk more about Prince A completionist history We're gonna see how many we To fully appreciate who we should first understand We're gonna move now to before the arrival of Bud Grant, and before the first Super But while most franchises an identity, or even any these Vikings needed about 15 minutes. Now some of these ancient lack a full play-by-play record, leaving us to rely on scattered footage and newspaper reports to read Its brilliance shines through anyway. - [Alex] For their maiden voyage, The Minnesota Vikings welcome the Chicago Bears. And no as synonymous with one with George &quot;Papa Bear&quot; Halas. The man on the opposite 42 years earlier as one of and ever since then he's owned them, made every football made every business decision, calling the shots as their head coach, the first nine of which lining up at both wideout Other than that, he's pretty hands off. And ironically enough, the very existence of these Minnesota Vikings to the relentless efforts of Papa Bear. Initially a new to become an original franchise with the upstart American Football League, beginning play in 1960. But then they began sniffing around the established, prestigious to try and gain membership there instead, though the bar was set high. They didn't quite reach it, but it was an issue The prospective ownership group and said they remained but a few weeks later, with of a competing NFL team in the same market, the and the budding AFL disintegrated. Now all eyes shifted toward a There was still the issue of while one of the league's owners was an incredibly But Halas was steadfast in and so he orchestrated an effort to change the NFL's constitution so that one asshole couldn't undermine everyone. His efforts were successful, and boom, from there the Minnesota (inspiring music) And Halas' Bears are now set to compete against that which he helped bring to life in their first game. It doesn't take very long until The Vikings have little into Chicago territory on all three of their first-quarter drives, though they only combine Their first-ever touchdown when rookie quarterback Fran Tarkenton, who's come off the bench to and show what he's got, threads the needle Early in the second half, after Chicago's cut their he lots a deep gem right on Jerry Reichow for touchdown number two, He's later able to squeeze a to Reichow that moves 'em When three runs go nowhere, who looks to the flat for to give his team an 18-point Tarkenton will also first introduce to the people of Minnesota his penchant for scrambling behind to buy time and find an open receiver, and he'll show his legs can as he plunges into the end zone. Desperate to get something the Bears are picked off giving another chance for Fran to continue his incredible debut and flash some more sizzle for the crowd. Some more scrambling produces yet another big play downfield, and on another 4th down Tarkenton takes matters unleashing a bullet to to give the Vikings a Chicago will tack on a but that's just lipstick on a pig. This annihilation stings Papa Bear, bad. All his hard work to grant an NFL team, and this The biggest humiliation of his career. The guy did not want to be this helpful. - [Jon] Comparisons and the actual, historical Norse vikings tend to be pretty tortured and obnoxious, but there are a few occasions to help ourselves. This is one of those. The most feared Viking warriors The story goes that &quot;berserker&quot; alluding to the warriors' the skins of bears they slaughtered. That might be ahistorical, but listen, &quot;myth&quot; is gonna be a very Anyway, it does add up. Although the Bears were arguably of the old NFL, the Vikings in the modern era. Entering the 2023 season, the difference is greater This would've been unthinkable to being blown out in this with their dignified what has to be the shortest Language, George. - [Alex] The biggest didn't just win but blew was because of the precocious play of their 21-year-old and approach to playing the position. Having seen the spark Minnesota was learning to embrace their young quarterback's Tarkenton, a native of Athens, Georgia, originally developed this the University of Georgia in the 1950s. As he explains it, in those for a quarterback to display Bailing on a crowded and quarterbacks just had to of getting clobbered over and over again by much larger human beings, While he acknowledges he broke he also later points out that to do, but rather something It was essential for him his slender frame absorbed in order to have a lengthy career And it worked. Not only did his legs help but as he showed from Day 1, he was also able to and gain yardage on the ground. This is not a dynamic around football during his Six seasons into his career, to pick up nearly 2,000 When that rushing productivity that was able to rack up the in this time, the Minnesota Vikings are clearly employing at the most important position in sports. - [Jon] Tarkenton's to accomplish four things. As Alex said, it allowed and it allowed him to pick In this play against the Rams in 1963, Tarkenton demonstrates the other two. His pocket has collapsed, and the Rams' Deacon Jones and Merlin Olsen, are right on top of him. Most quarterbacks at this point in history would either go down with and risk an interception. Instead, Tarkenton makes them work for it. Defensive ends around the league, who are often about 80 pounds heavier than Tarkenton, HATE him for this. In fact, decades later, Olsen will say, &quot;that little wimp would for hours and hours and hours, and we had to chase I'm willing to bet this is the exact play Olsen was thinking of. Guys like him simply aren't conditioned for long chases like this one. When he makes them do this all afternoon, the fatigue really adds And here's the fourth accomplishment. Tarkenton can keep 'em guessing by looking like he's about and then clutch and look downfield for an open receiver the next. Deacon Jones is one of the to keep after him here. You would assume Jones forces but Tarkenton's greedy. He just needs to buy two more seconds, and he gets them with of zigs and zags, sending Finally, after about 12 He stops, plants his a 50-yard bomb that goes for six. Tarkenton needed all 12 of those seconds to make that happen. That stunning franchise-opening by the games and years that follow. The Vikings do regress to what to be, finishing this year and within this prehistoric they only register one winning season. Very typical stuff for But at the same time, I can't help but wonder how had they been able to lay off We have three stories to tell here. Before we do, an important who may be in the audience: do not do any of the things They are all bad and stupid. They will not make you the best-case scenario the very worst time of your entire life. First, defensive end Don Joyce, one of their many who found their way on to During training camp, bartenders that the 250-pound Joyce in a 24-hour span. Seventy-five 12 ounce bottles. Not even counting the glass bottles, strictly the beer itself, To do this, one would have open a beer, and finish Which is pretty quick. Then one finishes another and so on and so forth, until in an hour. That would make me Then one keeps finishing hour after hour after hour, Next, wide receiver Paul Flatley. In 1965, the morning Flatley's hotel roommate wakes up and discovers his bed empty. After some searching, they wasted in the lobby. Instead of sleeping, he'd spent He's just a mess. His hands are shaking and everything. But he still plays, facing the threat of a $1,000 fine if he doesn't. Flatley not only plays, but He ends up with two touchdowns In the decades to follow, the Vikings will see an of receiving talent walk through their doors. And yet, this performance from in franchise history through 2022. Finally, I'd like to A man goes to sleep downstairs, and when he wakes up, he's upstairs. Nobody carried him. How can this be? The Minnesota Sheraton-Ritz and the bar advertises called a &quot;yard of ale.&quot; It's a special three-foot so yes, it is literally a yard of ale. The least unreasonable way to consume this would be to drink it with a straw, but you know it's not gonna be that easy. You're expected to lift as you would a normal glass. Imagine how unwieldy that would be, how impossible it would be just As it tilts, the whole all at once. One night, tight end and modifies this into the dumbest, most disgusting cocktail of all time. Instead of beer, Stonebreaker to be filled all the way up with martini. The bartender says no, but eventually relents reportedly throwing in dozens of olives. Obviously, and thankfully, Stonebreaker doesn't get After some time, he like he's Tarkenton in the backfield, falls down, and passes out at It's reported that the escalator and gracefully drops the sleeping man off on the second floor. The ringleader of this circus is a man who some of you may remember. (groovy music) Norm Van Brocklin, nicknamed &quot;The Dutchman,&quot; will later go on to be a mercurial and largely ineffective head For now, he's a mercurial and for the Minnesota Vikings. When he takes the job in January of 1961, he's only weeks removed from as a quarterback with the Eagles. He retired as one of the greatest one who once threw for 554 a record that still stands 71 years later. Oddly, though, not an ounce has carried over into his new profession. One story in particular perfectly captures Van Brocklin's coaching tenure. It was recalled by Jim Klobuchar, the iconic Minnesota sportswriter of many of these wild He knew and understood this that's never really seen often getting scoops on whether in a hotel lobby not because he had an but because he himself was actually there. And since you may be wondering, yep, Jim Klobuchar was in fact and presidential candidate Amy Klobuchar. Jim Klobuchar had so many that it's hard to keep 'em all straight, but during one of them, Van Brocklin challenges Klobuchar refuses. Van Brocklin insists, and he even offers up his Finally, Klobuchar agrees to fight, but at some point during a very weird elevator ride, Van Brocklin's enthusiasm seems to have dissipated. Klobuchar describes the awkward grappling match that and breaking the hotel room TV. That was Norm Van Brocklin. He'd be one guy one moment and a completely different guy the next. His anger radiated omnidirectionally. If you caught it, it wasn't it wasn't borne out of some It was because you were standing there. Like any other person, Van Brocklin was In his personal life, for instance, he and his wife once adopted who'd lost their parents, the thought of them growing There was good in Norm It's just that Coach Norm to please for any length of time. His tenure was made up of rash decisions, the comes after a 41-21 The next morning, to the shock Van Brocklin quits. He doesn't bother to he just calls reporters Not only does he quit, he that there's no talking him out of it. He is done with football forever, and he is never, ever coming back. 12 hours later, he comes back. Vikings management had but they shouldn't have Van Brocklin has lost and their playoff hopes are And although Tarkenton in the papers, he privately The rift between coach and quarterback had been growing for a few years. The popular explanation was scrambling in the backfield and it sometimes seemed to, with this guy, it just of the day you talked to him. The real problem is that his teammates being insulted, and bullied by Van Brocklin. He bristles at what he to be the star of the show, to have the universe revolve around him just like it did when he Remarkably, Tarkenton, has displayed far more maturity He knows who he is, what he And it's around this time that he gives up on putting up with Norm's bullshit for the sake of making it work. In the 1966 season, the things get worse. Van Brocklin's words ring among the players. Toward the end of the season, the Vikings play the for the first time ever. Although the game's in Minnesota, the game is gonna be broadcast in It's a big deal for him. Van Brocklin decides to bench in favor of Bob Berry, who's In rough weather, Berry throwing five interceptions by just one touchdown. On the other side, Falcons players can't believe it. They were sure Van Brocklin since the game was still winnable, but he never showed up on extra points and field goals. One Falcons player goes so far as to rip Van Brocklin And while Tarkenton once and professional in the moment, he later describes it as a power play, a message that this was The Dutchman Show. And that is how Van Brocklin blew it. The greatest quarterback fell into his lap and began A revolutionary. A future Hall of Famer. A player who, as of 2023, still holds the Vikings by a huge margin. All gone to waste because Van Brocklin was incapable of getting over himself. Two months later, in the offseason, Tarkenton asks Van Brocklin to trade him. We should be used to this by now: all of a sudden, Van Brocklin In a six-hour conversation, into sticking around, but it's no use. The situation has taken a They're exhausted. A day after Tarkenton to the front office, Van Brocklin submits his resignation as head coach. Tarkenton could have rescinded the request after Van Brocklin left, but he didn't. Van Brocklin could have traded Tarkenton and moved on with a new quarterback, like it seemed like he When the confrontation finally happened, neither Tarkenton nor the Dutchman won. Neither even wanted to win. They just wanted it to be over. The greatest quarterback in is already gone. This marks the end of prehistory. Welcome to the beginning Everything resets to zero. All previous successes and in existence are knocked off the board. Congratulations to the Green Bay Packers, winners of Super Bowl I. The Super Bowl Era is now underway. This is the birth of the and with it, we also see the beginnings of the Minnesota Vikings (soft music) Bud Grant, who headed south Norm Van Brocklin as head loves the American flag. So much that he made his to face the flag for the National toes on the sideline and helmets tucked into their right arms. Grant himself is very patriotic, but he's not trying to force He says it often: &quot;you don't have to love America, and if you think this is But it's what we're doing.&quot; In the wake of Van Brocklin's tenure, which was authoritarianism one there simply have to be some rules here, if only for the sake of having rules. His players do find a lot but they buy into it, the other ostensibly trivial they all jog onto the practice they all wear their socks Countless football coaches and been laughed out of but not Bud Grant. This was a coach who earned respect without even needing to try. He was authentic. Genuine. The real deal. And the most quietly confident who has ever paced an NFL sideline. There has never been another Not then, not now. Although he'll fill these Vikings teams with Muslim players and he'll never lead them in team prayer, because he doesn't believe in God. Like most other things, a big deal about this, but the mere fact that he even says so sets him apart from any other football Another quality that sets him apart: he does not believe in bulletin boards. He has no use for slogans. The only line he ever &quot;well, it seemed like the thing to do.&quot; This is a piece of brilliant because it's impervious to &quot;Hey Bud, how come you always say 'it seemed like the thing to do?'&quot; &quot;Oh, I don't know. It just seemed like the thing to do.&quot; See? Even in the privacy of the locker room, Grant never gives rousing speeches. In fact, he usually doesn't Not before a big game, not at halftime when they're losing by This is because he sees his players not as subservient foot as his peers and collaborators. He trusts them to motivate themselves and has no interest in wasting their time. This was a lesson he took NBA schedules were long and grueling, and he found that it for the same words to Coming from that same place of respect, Grant never yells at his players. Ever. He's always direct, but We can often speak in because no circumstances Jim Klobuchar calls him &quot;sanity's fixed beacon an emotional Sahara,&quot; and they love him for that. Bud's rules, by the way, do He's a realist. A lot of his players love to smoke, and while he personally despises smoking, he offers up a compromise: you can smoke if the walls On road trips, players always make sure to pack their tape measures. (light music) Congratulations once again winners of Super Bowl II. Hopefully for the Vikings, some other team is eventually because the Vikings are actually starting to look like a candidate. In 1968, Bud Grant's they finally push and into the playoffs The Vikings should get comfortable, because they're gonna Within the first 57 years they'll play a total of 52 playoff games, more than the vast And this is number one. (light music) - [Alex] And on play number one in Baltimore's muddy Memorial they through and sack league MVP Earl Morrall for an eight-yard loss. The tone is immediately has come to play, but that by two excruciating Baltimore big plays. One is this downfield bomb has negative separation but with the ball to set up a short touchdown a couple plays later. The other is on a pass John Mackey that Vikes comes agonizingly close to picking off only for Mackey to secure despite both safeties converging on him, and taking it all the way to paydirt for the 14-0 Colts lead. Huge daggers when there were defenders who couldn't have been in better position. Then on 2nd-and-8, the Colts decide to send half of Maryland after quarterback Joe Kapp. Kapp doesn't stand a chance -- he's obliterated from every direction and coughs up the ball of linebacker Mike Curtis, who takes it the other way Minnesota scores their late when everyone's covered first on Kapp's one-yard with eight minutes left, to Bill Brown with just seconds left. It just was too little, too - [Jon] Congratulations winners of Super Bowl III. Now, what we have here is The X-axis represents the a franchise's cumulative This is a good time to talk about the Z. The Z-axis represents has been waiting for a Super Bowl win. The higher team is, the That's why, for instance, while everybody else is up there. They just won it last season, so they've only been waiting for one year. Now, here, we'll go ahead into the future for just a moment, so we can see just how long The Jets just won the big one, of course, but now the clock starts over. They're gonna have to wait one, and then they'll keep on and then ... well ... listen, Jets fans. I'm talking to you from and my advice to you is that you make sure to really, really, REALLY Really enjoy it. Now, onto the 1969 season. Let's see how the Vikings are doing. Holy smokes. 12-2. Best record in the NFL. Welcome to the Bud Grant experience. - [Alex] As any fan of good defense knows, everything starts up front, blessed with an embarrassment of riches along their defensive line. Nicknamed the Purple People Eaters, they relentlessly harass opposing One of their starting ends for whom they traded just a few days before their 1961 franchise debut after a bout with with the Browns in limbo. There was no longer room at his natural position, and to convert him to offense, the Vikings were the beneficiaries Marshall entered their wreaking havoc all game in and for the next 19 years, the Minnesota Vikings will without Marshall in their starting lineup, making life miserable for left tackles. The end opposite Marshall, the man who makes life miserable for right tackles, is Carl Eller. Lucky that he was still on the board, the Vikings chose the local sixth overall in the 1964 Draft, and even Papa Bear knew pairing another star defensive end with Marshall would cause. And now in 1969, the future Hall of Famer is right in the heart of his prime. With those two screaming if quarterbacks dare seek asylum by stepping up in the pocket, well, that would just mean a devastating interior to make the Hall of Fame -- which for him as a Canton native To say nothing of the fact he actually helped physically As you'd imagine, these and 1969 marks the second of defensive linemen all Speaking of that trio's ability their freedom to do so rounding out the group, lining up beside Page at Serving as the unit's policeman, his focus is on shutting down and all the dirty work that unlocks the pass-rushing explosiveness of his fellow Purple People Eaters. Not that quarterbacks were as we can see by taking a look at the NFL's sack leaders from 1969. While not officially until 1982, we do have from this season thanks to the wonderful Pro-Football-Reference. Eller and Marshall constitute with at least 14 sacks, among the league leaders. This means they basically and are afforded the luxury of leaving seven men in coverage. Headlining those seven is Paul Krause. And the latter of his ballhawking ways in football. In college at Iowa, it he played on the baseball caliber player who once in a single game. He played both ways for on offense leading the B1G Even in the pros, he once to catch some passes, and some easy tosses, the to have him drop their passes. He was simply unable. As a high-school basketball player, he set a county record and was an All-American in track. There was nothing Krause didn't excel at. And oh yeah, as for his day job, he led the league in interceptions 28 total through just four Then Minnesota swung a deal with the man himself probably before embarking on a dozen-year that sees him eventually as, to this day, the league's all-time career interceptions leader. By the time the 1969 the numbers show this was a defense that eviscerated all challengers, especially following the opener. After allowing 24 points to old friend Fran Tarkenton the Vikings didn't allow the rest of the way. They also had six of the in terms of yards allowed per play. You just couldn't move the ball on them. They remain one of only two to ever allow as few as and we can see this year Bud Grant's defense was and the other side of chopped liver either. They managed to combine with an offense that led Entering the '69 postseason, this is looking to be an But in their first-ever home playoff game, the Vikings find themselves after they've already allowed 17 points to a sharp Rams offense behind from NFL MVP Roman Gabriel. In the second half though, finds the sledding in the much tougher. Even staying to pass becomes a struggle. Meanwhile Joe Kapp and the as he and star wideout Gene Washington connect on a deep 41-yard that pulls 'em within three. A Rams field goal early pushes their lead to six before his team downfield with his arm. His legs move 'em just where they then finish off the job, launching Minnesota in that even he doesn't realize he possesses. Down by just one with eight minutes left, the Rams are very much alive, but Carl Eller smells blood. On the very first play in Eller extends it by soundly Bob Brown, then eluding to tackle him, then dropping Still only needing a field the Rams are threatening as they march into Viking territory with less than a minute That's when Alan Page has recognizes exactly what's coming, and steps into the passing and clinch the first playoff win in Minnesota Vikings history. - [Jon] The day after their first playoff win in the Browns and Cowboys play to determine Minnesota's next opponent. Bud Grant catches bits but he has better things to do. He spends most of the game You know why? Because it's his day off, that's why. Bud has a very strong work ethic, but once it's time to stop working, it is time to stop working. He clocks out every day before dinnertime so he can go home to his wife and kids. He starts training camp because training camp is boring. Again, this man is unlike you have ever heard of. Anyway, I wonder whether this afternoon in the Grant family driveway is the moment he experiences his epiphany. (light music) During yesterday's game the Vikings had enjoyed the a pretty standard fixture around the NFL. From his upbringing in Minnesota, to his near-death to his years in Winnipeg, he's known the cold Perhaps inspired by the and adventured in climates it's here that Bud Grant introduces a powerful new Viking myth. Grant decides that during the final game before the Super Bowl, the Vikings will not on the sidelines. As the home team, they'll and allow the Browns to do so, but the Vikings themselves will be content to freeze their asses off in No long johns. No hand In the years to come, he It's a tactic of intimidation, sure. But it's also a means of Instead of huddling around the heaters and taking themselves away from the game, they'll be standing at the This might sound like a silly gimmick. But the thing about Bud Grant's ideas is that they tend to work. The next Sunday at Metropolitan Stadium, which Vikings fans the referees find out that for their whistles, which It's too cold for the which has decided to stop working. I mean hell, given all we're missing, it might have In these conditions, the the Browns in a 27-7 win As expected, the Purple People Eaters punished Cleveland all day, but this was the game in how special, and how unusual, Minnesota's quarterback really was. Joe Kapp, perhaps the NFL's first great Mexican-American player, took over as the Vikings' after Bud Grant orchestrated to bring him south of the border. It was in the CFL that Kapp Have you ever seen the movie El Cid? No? Have you seen the movie Great, you're halfway there. The medieval Spanish knight El Cid, played by Charlton Heston, is His dying wish is to ride with his army in the next day's battle. But he's dead, so they make this happen this contraption that's to sit completely upright on the horse. They keep his eyes open and The opposing army, who was is stricken with horror upon and decisively routed. Hey uh ... hey, hey guys? should ... probably go get him. Anyway, that's why Joe Kapp's Without fail, he would always despite regularly suffering you can think of. He'd just and make it work. Kapp played quarterback The consensus was that at his best, he could do it all like he was doing it all wrong. He could pass effectively, but his throws often He sometimes just makes shit up, stuff other quarterbacks never did, like this hilarious chest But it landed in the receiver's hands. That was always the In today's game against Kapp demonstrated his signature quality. Like Tarkenton before him, But while Tarkenton did so Kapp ran as though he didn't of the self to begin with. Here in the third quarter, he cuts loose and finds Pro Bowler Big Quarterbacks who are not to the sideline, slide, or at Kapp throws his body that the much larger It wasn't malicious, it was just the only way That was these Vikings, in fact. Bud Grant and his squad weren't actually bloodthirsty berserkers. They were just the unbreakable And on this Sunday, they to dominate in the cold as a superpower. It's a superpower that they will have to abandon immediately. (dramatic music) Nearly every Super Bowl either indoors or in a The Vikings, having just to Super Bowl IV, are where they'll encounter the AFL Despite coming out of the cold, the Vikings command plenty of fear and respect from all over the country. Vegas makes 'em a 13-point which speaks not only to this season, but to the is inherently superior to the AFL. Despite the fact that the into a single entity, there's plenty of bad blood between these two. The AFL actually managed in last year's Super Bowl with the Jets coming outta nowhere, and with this being the last-ever official clash those in the NFL are put the junior AFL in their Grant knows the entire legacy of the old NFL rests on their shoulders. - [Alex] Despite the Vikings they come out relatively flat. Shortly into the second quarter they've punted to cap each while allowing Jan Stenerud field goals on each of Kansas City's first two. On their third series, with John Henderson for 16 yards, only for Henderson to Minnesota's defense limits as two plays later, Chiefs goes for it all on a shot but the Vikes have him perfectly bracketed and Paul Krause comes away with the pick. After yet another Minnesota the two-score favorites find And the avalanche snowballs when they flub the return on the live ball to steal a possession that they'll start in the red zone. Dawson leads 'em down to the five, where on 3rd-and-goal calls an inside trap play all postseason: 65 Toss Power Trap, to be specific. Alan Page gets caught allowing pulling guard Mo Moorman to easily take him out of the play. That clears a cavernous hole to scoot in the end zone as the Vikings fall behind 16-zip at the half. The Vikings open the second then Kapp crisply marches to set up Dave Osborn's that sneaks across the into his team with 20 minutes remaining. But on the very next drive, Otis Taylor sucks that He takes a short pass from Dawson, is able to break the tackle attempt of Vikings cornerback Earsell Mackbee, who's limited by a pinched and sprints up the sideline the only impediment between Taylor and a back-breaking touchdown. Kassulke throws himself at to prevent it, but he's as the Chiefs take the near the end of the third quarter. Minnesota will get the but now in predictable, all three end with interceptions -- the final one thrown by backup Gary Cuozzo after a severely beaten-up Joe Kapp finally had to depart After a season of almost the Vikings couldn't in the foot when it mattered most, and now they must start all to try to once again scale the (light music) - [Jon] Congratulations winners of Super Bowl IV. This is their first Super Bowl win. 1969 was just one of within the amazing life of Joe Kapp, who has many more adventures ahead of him. But he would never play Weeks prior to Super Bowl IV, Kapp was presented with the but he refused to accept it. There is no most There are 40. Meanwhile, Bud Grant won the AP's Coach of the Year In just three seasons, these Vikings from directionless to Super Bowl contender. They will be back. When the Vikings beat to the Super Bowl, Fran from far away, probably Having fostered the franchise he'd just barely missed the Bud Grant era by a matter of months. In New York, he was personally excelling, putting up monster numbers, but he was unable to reach the playoffs with a chronically average Giants team. And as he watched the Vikings clinch their Super Bowl appearance, He was overjoyed to see had finally made it, and of whether he would ever (light music)