This time my husband and I came to our favorite flea market in Jussieu. This month is November. So, this year's flea market in Jussieu, There are only two more to go, this time and in December. A year goes by so fast. In October, I was in Amiens, so this time it has been a long time since I have been in Jussieu. After the flea market today, I plan to meet up with a friend and go to lunch. My husband's purpose today is antique art prints, of course. It's almost Christmas season,I am hoping to find holly-patterned plates. And as always, I am hoping to find the Gien Pont aux Choux series and some cute enamel canisters. No, more importantly, I have to be careful not to go over my budget! We've arrived in Jussieu, and we're going to have a great time! Today I came with my husband. It is morning now. We are here in the morning. We are going to look around this flea market now. I am very much looking forward to it. I have probably never been here this early in the morning. As usual, Starts at the square above the station. He didn't look at anything else and rushed to where he thought the antique art prints might be. At this store, I have bought big butcher's chopping block or, a rattan tray to put cheese on this summer. There are silver coffee spoon, though, I would prefer something a little smaller and with relief. I even found these things! Knitting sticks and crochet hooks. Each one has a price tag, so it is practical for shopping. A bit expensive. Not bad, right? Yeah, but I'm not looking for this kind of thing. I like it. Yeah, but... But... It's not bad. That's not what I'm looking for. Is it? This is not bad at all. He seems to have his own obsession with antique art prints. This is a small painting in a frame. Isn't this frame beautiful? Yup. Very beautiful. It's just a frame. Other than that... This frame is so beautiful. This is a classy jacket. Is this real fur? This sturdy stitching may be real one. It is because it might be already this season, The number of stall is less than usual Jussieu. Coats that will be useful in the coming season. In dark winter, these bright coats are also cute. Perhaps this pattern is plum blossoms? For a while, my husband was buying LP records, A corner where brightly colored items are displayed. Is there anything good? There are plates. However, everything doesn't seem to be in very good condition. How about here? A set of plates with quite a few pieces. But it was a little different from what I like. La mode pratique This looks like a fashion magazine from around 1940s. Very cute. I admire the old France, where women were elegant. Boxes laid out directly on the ground. It's fun to search inside these things. But this stand has everything in a box! So much for everything being put inside the box, Since we have only just arrived here, This is where I bought a Gien Pont aux choux plate. And last year I found a soupiere of Moustiers here though, This is the Madame's shop where I always find something good every time I come here. What I thought was wonderful this time was this upcycled 18th century frame mirror. It was 80EUR and I didn't buy it because it was over my budget, This madam's wonderful taste makes you feel I enjoy looking at this shop, it is one of my favorite things to do in Jussieu. Under this plate, that was a nice blue and white plate. This is the first patterned dish I've seen. Is this a Sarreguemines? It's very beautiful, but there's only one piece, And under this plate, A beautiful barbotine dish, similar to the one I have. I found something very beautiful at this stand. This is so beautiful! It reminded me of a bronze candlestick that I regretted not buying before. He said this one is bronze. What? He said it's bronze. This is a lot of weight. 1000EUR. Oh, I want it... There is a pretty patterned plate there. Longwy. The ravier and the plate were very pretty, but unfortunately, there was quite a bit of staining. Coffee spoons. But it doesn't look like silver plated ones. Large cute cafe au lait bowl. I already have some cafe au lait bowls,so Here's a ravier that looks a bit more prestigious. Beautiful. English antiques are nice too. Good morning! Hi! Meeting up with friends here. Good morning! Now, I'm going to check your fashion! (lol) I'll check your fashion! OK! You have a bag that looks like you are both wearing the same bag. Yes. This one is from Mango. But I bought this one two years ago. Here is what Pon-chan bought. So you bought a kitty. Cute! Isn't she cute? It cost me 5EUR,even though it's so small. Isn't it cute? This shop is another must stop for me every time I come to Jussieu. For a moment I thought it was a &quot;Regence&quot; Saint Amand, Cafe au lait bowls in good condition. What's this? More importantly, as I was editing this, I noticed the dog next to it. Is that a donkey over here? This teapot is also beautiful. And the one behind it, pot de chambre. Aiko is looking for this manufacturer's pitcher, though. I don't like that one! That's for peeing. This is cute too. Is this a plate for a cake? Ceramic canisters. It looks like all the lids are in place. How cute they are! Aluminum dinette (play house) set! Ceramic single Handed Pot. I would like to display many of these on my kitchen wall someday. This is a ceramic candlestick. This is also pretty. A small pitcher of barbotine. But I couldn't tell which maker this was from. There are pretty ones. You know, like this one. But I have so many that they'll end up in the cupboard. I know. Are they the Ivory series? Yes, they are. Are they the Ivory series? Yes. But there's no cups, just saucers. If there are no cups, I don't want them. What's this? Not much I have seen, a pitcher with a green pattern. But this one didn't strike my heart too much. Quimper? It's a pretty, rustic hand painting. Beautiful colored ceramic canister. But it is quite damaged. This canister also had some chips. Too bad! I didn't find anything I wanted here this time. We came to the other square. At first glance, there may be a little less stall here too. Cute toy cash register. Under this plate is that plate with a lace rim Luneville. But it has stains all over and had turned to light brown color. I have one of these, an enameled one that used to be used for medical purposes. Next to those is a gorgeous chandelier. Chairs, tables and other furniture are offten sold. But what I wanted to see was what were on this table. I couldn't see this backstamp very well. Beautiful pattern with delicate white relief and lovely flowers. It's a little different taste from French antiques. Here are all the frogs for some reason. And here are pitchers Saint clement. Sarreguemines Minton? but I think it's a bit different. No, it is not. Which manufacturer is this from? This is quite a pretty patterned plate, don't you think? Looks like they have several pieces together. I couldn't help but let go of my hand at the severe dirt. (lol) What was this used for? A very beautiful glass bottle. He is the dog of this stall who attracts customers to come. And here. Because there were gorgeous glasses on this stall. I tried it, but.., It doesn't suit me at all! Surprisingly, this did not suit me! Why don't you try this one on too?" Heh..." (lol) Nice! Yay! I found this little mirror. At the last minute, just before leaving, I finally found what I wanted. Thank you, Pon-chan! Good for you! I was with my friends and those who I met at the previous Jussieu flea market, We are all going to lunch together in this neighborhood. But there are not many restaurant choices around here on Sundays, We decided to have couscous at Grande Mosquee de Paris. Unfortunately, the restaurant is under renovation. So we came to a cafe by the botanical garden. Next to it was this fontaine. Built in 1840. la fontaine Cuvier. Plenty of walking and hungry, Now I can enjoy whatever I eat. I ordered a healthy &amp; hearty duck salad. The others rdered duck confit, tartar steak. Pon-chan and I, of course, ordered a glass of wine. Poached eggs, duck, lentils, and plenty of vegetables. Next is another petit flea market I went to with my husband. The week after the flea market in Jussieu, we come to the Place du Louvre, which is right next to the Louvre Museum. There are only a few stalls, Simple vintage canisters are also nice. This lovely canisters are creil et montereau, I think? This square seems to be the only venue for a flea market. Let's go around the circle. The big building you see over there leading to, Louvre Museum. Lovely soupiere. This store has a very cute display, All of them are with very good taste, The name of the item and the price are written by hand properly. A simple white cafe au lait bowl. And this jacket has La Poste (French Postal Service) mark. A small drawer chest. What is it for? Dish at the very back, That's the same series as the barbotine canisters I saw earlier. This is also beautiful! This plate looks like the plate I want, and this one is not bad either. Beautiful colors! Is it some kind of game? I found something interesting. A ceramic cat. It is a pillow. Is it from some Asian country? Another beautiful barbotine dish. Also here. Recently barbotine is my boom. So I found it here too. That's also the plate I was looking for! I've been wanting some of these plates for dessert. The colors are a little bit different. I wonder which one is better. Hello! How are you? How much is this? 10EUR. Here you go! This one and this one. Negotiate for 10EUR for the two. I will look for something else. This Monsieur who is always in Jussieu, has great stuff. Last week at this monsieur's shop in Jussieu, Unfortunately I didn't find anything I wanted, but I'm glad I found the plate I was looking for this time. Is there anything else good? Then I found a silver coffee spoons, exactly what I was looking for and the right size. Simple on the front, beautiful with relief on the back. When I asked the price, it was 30EUR for 6 pieces. My husband, who is holding the camera, looks reluctant when he sees that I found something. (lol) How much do you think it all costs? All in. 10EUR! (lol) Eh! 40EUR? My husband keeps shaking his head. All in all it was 45EUR. Negotiations did not come to fruition for 40EUR. You said 20EUR for everything, right? He said 45EUR. You said 20EUR for everything, right? The plates are 10EUR each, you know. and the spoons are 30EUR. Eh! What the hell are you going to do with that? Then buy only that ones. Make it 30EUR in total, please. I can't do it! 40EUR? 45EUR. Buy only that ones. This? That's it? That's right, that's all you need to buy. Okay, okay. But this is beautiful, look! No, no. OK, next time. Monsieur - I'll take only those. See you next time when my husband is not around. (lOl) Thank you very much! She is your best customer,no?! (lol) Thanks. I finally got 2 of these plates. I would like to get 2 more. I did it! Hello, I'm Pone! I have showed you two flea markets. One is with Jussieu, that I love, which is held once a month, And then the Place du Louvre, This time , I went to Jussieu also with my husband. And there I met with some friends of mine, and we looked at the flea market together, And Jussieu this time, I was really happy. Thank you very much. The Jussieu flea market this time, Compared to the summer one, by all means, Of course, still, It's a lot more fun than other flea markets in Paris. Compared to summer, when the flea markets are at their busiest. So it's almost winter, I was disappointed that the number of shops seemed And that flea market in the Place du Louvre. Since it was a flea market with not so many shops, But it was indeed a flea market by only professionals, There were quite a few shops with only really good stuff. Among those shops, Um, there was the shop that is always in Jussieu, which the Monsieur, who always sells very beautiful things. I was able to buy those barbotine plates, which I have been looking for recently. And here is the coffee cups. Actually, this is not from the flea market. I have introduced this store once before in my video, which is Les Quatres Saisons in Paris, I went there and bought this. I went just before going to the Jussieu flea market, Every time I go to this Les Quatres saisons, there is always something I want. This is the little mirror I finally found at the very end of this Jussieu. This was 30EUR. I did not yet have a mirror as small as this one on my front wall. So I was really happy to find this. This is what I want for dessert, I thought, This one is a little lighter in color. And this one is a little darker. I bought those ones because I thought this difference is also interesting. I don't see anything on the back, If anyone knows that, please let me know. This is absolutely lovely for dessert. And this is the coffee cup and saucer I bought at Les Quatres Saisons. I found this one without saucer in one of the stores in Rouen. But I wanted the saucer with it, so I gave up buying it then. And at Les Quatres Saisons, the saucers were sold together, This is a promotional cup for a British bouillon company. This is a promotional cup for a French bouillon company. So I used that! I put the waffles on the Barbotine plate I bought. With figs, blueberries, almonds and whipped cream. Bon appetit. As I thought, this plate is perfect for dessert. Time passes very fast, doesn't it? Jussieu flea market again this year, Maybe next month again, Also, please look forward to the next video!