So we're talking about possibly the most of it - Euler's identity - the most beautiful equals zero. We've got the five most important p and the number e. There's a reason this and the most famous probably mathematical so what I really want to talk about is Euler's We've got a number z which we can write as x plus complex number, y is the imaginary part, and the kind of came about because as mathematicians we equations; so we said let's call the root of minus quadratic equation by the quadratic formula. But graph. We have the x-axis is the real part of z, I can represent my complex number as actually a x across, let's say that's here, and then I go y up, z is equal to position (x,y) in my 2D space. And because if I say to you let's go x across here that particular property or that definition. Now and now there's another way which is the polar to the i theta. And here r we call this the of z. Now these are just fancy words which from the origin to our complex number. So if distance between two points, this distance is r, and theta is an angle and the angle is important from the origin then I could be here; but maybe origin. And in fact you're going to get a circle. the origin, so we need to also give theta this like so. So if I specify the distance I am from the one point - just like we uniquely had one point by we've got two representations for our complex they're the same complex number. And the way you do We drop that down, create a right angle, then we now this height here is y; and then we know that our which tells us that x squared plus y squared it's a distance, is equal to the square root of x could replace that by this, but what we really want Because again we know the- the height here and trigonometry tells me that cos of theta is equal Sine of theta is opposite over hypotenuse, that's y to r cos theta and y is equal to r sine theta. So r and theta; and we have these two representations which on my picture it is, these all have to be so we know that z is equal to the distance times that this is x plus iy; but we've got these two and get r cos theta plus i times y which is r sine is this awesome equation which is Euler's cos theta plus i sine theta. So that right there is and just drawing out some triangles and figuring awesome, I love Euler's formula. There's loads and I'm going to show you three, I think, of my formula. So we've seen where it comes from, it's things. Now we've got it, let's play around with that we're going to do is actually consider the 1, comes down goes up, and similarly goes down and goes through zero like that. Cos is what we call about the y-axis. So if you cover up that side, if same thing. And this tells you that cos of positive Now for sine this is odd, and this tells us that theta. So if I look at this point down here this is minus one you get up here. So it's minus sine of minus to get a really neat expression for cos and i theta, and if we look at e to the minus i theta - replacing it by minus theta in the top, and then I plus i sine of minus theta. So that's just taking in all three places, we have this result. But cos is even, you get cos theta. Sine of minus theta, sine of theta if I sort of do that. Multiply of theta. And now comparing this equation and i theta plus e to the minus i theta. So I've got a what I'm actually going to do is divide and that gives me single cos theta. And sine theta, so they cancel. So I just get cos for the cos function, this thing that we've seen purely in terms of e and i. So it's a really this thing to do with triangles and this wave-like Euler's number naturally appearing and also this with- to get an expression for sine of theta; cancel. So you do e to the i theta minus e to the that's now negative because we're subtracting this so that becomes plus 2i sine theta. So you we have a similar expression, so we can write function. So that's my first favourite thing to my second favourite thing to do with Euler's So we're going to start with the function. I mentioned this before actually in the plus x squared over 2 factorial, plus x cubed over on forever. So this is just a way of writing it in this infinitely long string of pieces added e, because we keep adding things, starts really exponential growth. So that's what's happening what e to the i theta and e to the minus i theta the plan is we can now get infinite series for cool trigonometric or wave-like functions as the exponential here. So we need to calculate e to replace x with i theta - plus i theta - plus i theta etc. And what we need to know is what's happening because we know that i is the square root of so that means that i cubed is i squared times i i cubed times i which is minus i times i which is minus 1. So we've got this little like i, then you multiply by i to go to minus 1, then you by i to go to 1 because that was i to the fourth, there. So it actually creates a cycle - every fourth in our infinite expansion. So now we can plug this get is e to the i theta is: we've got a 1 plus i was minus 1 so that's minus theta squared 2 it'll be minus i, and we've still got the theta the fourth one was 1, so that's now plus theta pattern carries on. So the next one would have an 5 factorial, and then a minus, and then a minus we want to do the same for e to the minus i theta. minus i. So we've got minus i, then we want to now which is going to be plus i squared, which is times another minus i so that gives me a minus That's 1 times minus i, so they give you a plus so to the fourth is going to now be minus i squared to get back again. So just like before we start we multiply by i to get i and again by- sorry by by minus i to go back. So it's the same kind this starts at minus i then it's the same. Those what we're going to get is e to the minus i theta still minus theta squared over 2 factorial. Then then plus theta to the fourth over 4 factorial what we were trying to get with our infinite e to the i theta plus e to the minus i So 1 plus 1 is 2 divided by 2 - 1. i theta Minus theta squared minus another theta but then we divide by 2 so I get minus theta opposite sign, and then we get uh theta to the So what we're seeing here is the cos term has all of a clue earlier when we had the graph of cos by any stretch but even and even it's nice, so the exact same with sine of theta but this time we So the first term they subtract each other to theta divided by 2i so I just get theta. That Minus i minus another i, so that gives me minus theta cubed over 3 factorial; and then that will 1, power 3, power 5 - we get all the odd powers for is written here as 1 plus x plus x squared cos is all of the even powers - where you alternate, And sine is all the odd powers going plus, minus, for the exponential function we now get these nice sine of theta is often approximated because it's the first term in your infinite expansion. I love infinite series, I think infinite- the fact wave or this function that's to do with triangles it still blows my mind. Like I know it's true, it's true, but it's still- I don't know. It's talking about infinity and it's actually making able to do this. So the big finale - actually So we've seen hopefully some really e to the i theta using complex numbers we we then played around with some infinite series do - I did promise you we were going to do some cool Euler's formula is really the foundations behind facade of the building that everyone loves, but the to get it you just substitute in a value of theta. is equal to cos of p plus i times sine of p. off the value of cos, cos of p is minus 1, sine formula is minus 1, which we rearrange to get e Now that's my favourite form of it, some of you but I quite like getting the zero in there. I think- I agree. This is- this is the one I got tattooed, this is this is the is why I wanted to share with you all Euler's and create your own identity of this kind of form. get e to the ip by 2 is cos of p by 2 - well that's is 1. So e to the ip by 2 is i. So that's a nice the same formula as Euler's identity did. We can halfway up here. So e to the ip by 4 equals cos of p by 4 is actually the same value. And this is the square root of i, i to the half. Because what i to the power of a half, that means multiplying So this is another way of showing 1 plus i all multiplied by root 2 over 2. And are going to be 60 degrees, so that's p over 3, so of 60 is quite far down, cos is quite 60 so that's root 3 over 2. And then the last So I like this one because you bring in a 6 other identities; and that's going to be cos of 30 we get all of these sort of other identities using You get Euler's identity when it's p, when it's square root of i when you have 45 degrees, that's like because you just bring in all of these other between 6, 2, 3, i, e - all kinds of things. All right so we've got Euler's identity, p by 6 is root 3 over 2 plus i over If you like this video you're probably gonna Brilliant. Brilliant's crammed with interactive smarter, and also well it's just kind Now watching videos is great, helps you learn better than actually See it all at brilliant.org, or to get 20% off use the url brilliant.org/numberphile. It's If you're already a subscriber, then it's also a really great You couldn't use any ideas that had do something new. You could only write down infinite ordinals or anything like that