For regular videos on ancient cultures and please subscribe. Every year archaeologists make exciting new single one of them - rewrite history in And for those of you who aren't aware, there that I do a monthly livestream going over in a single month. But now it is time to look back at the whole And so I have picked out what I think are Mind you, since I am a historian of ancient relating to ancient times. So nothing here from prehistory or medieval Still, there is much here to marvel at. I hope you enjoy hearing about these as much So here we go. #20 Bronze age network of enclosures in Serbia have been identified in Serbia using Google walls and ditches (this is their Bronze Age) that includes parts of Romania, Hungary, and These sites were thought to be isolated during from the University College of Dublin reveal of settlements, seasonal gatherings, ceremonials, the Tisza River. #19 Ancient Chinese Water Conservation Facility Chinese researchers excavating the Qianqui have discovered over 80 meters of water channels to 420 CE). The channels display advanced water conservation utilization (like rainwater collection). The discovery, including stone culverts running plan, not only has contributed to our understanding shown technology we didn't know that had #18 Multiple new discoveries at Saqqara The tomb of Panehsy (the steward of the Amun four well-preserved tomb chapels, (one belonging the Pharaoh's treasury), and two complete were discovered in the Saqqara Necropolis. The first embalming workshop dates to 380-343 date to the Old and New Kingdoms of Egypt. Panehsy's tomb resembles a freestanding temple to that of Maya, a high ranking official during last year. The walls of Panehsy's tomb are adorned his wife Baia, priests, and offering bearers. #17 World Oldest Shipyard The world's largest and oldest known ancient Turkiye's Mersin province by the Department at Akdeniz University. The shipyard was built during the Greek Dark that this island was the original home of Later it would have been taken by the Greeks. The shipyard began to be uncovered in 2015, It includes 294 slipways, allowing for nearly The archaeologists say that this many slipways political, military, and commercial balances. The ships built at Dana Island played roles conflicts between Greeks and Persians. #16 4,000-Year-Old Temple in Peru Archaeologists at UNSM in Peru discovered archaeological site in western Peru. And the temple features a chakana carved into This chakana (an ancient cross symbol used complete representation found in the Andes tradition related to this symbol in ancient ago up to the Inca period! Very interesting. #15 Sunken Greco-Egyptian Temples A joint Egyptian-French archaeological mission of Underwater Archaeology of the Ministry city of Thonis-Heraklion (near Alexandria) Greek goddess Aphrodite and the Egyptian god Aphrodite's temple contained Greek bronze silver ritual instruments, gold jewelry, and Both discoveries were sitting on top of wooden to the fifth century BCE. These discoveries were made possible thanks that allowed the teams to detect objects underneath These finds help to reinforce the significance port prior to Alexandria's founding. #14 Zapotec Tunnels under Catholic Church Have you heard of the Zapotecs? They were an ancient Mesoamerican culture. Mexican researchers using cutting edge ground San Pablo Apostol church in Mitla, Oaxaca, and tunnel system) that was connected to the The Zapotecs, thriving near Oaxaca since the system of chambers and tunnels. The church is on the spot of a once-important confirm historical accounts of rituals and associated with the dead. #13 Han Dynasty tombs in China In two places in China this year, tombs from On a local hill in Laozhuangshi, in Henan nearly 1600 years has been discovered. Two of the tombs are from the Eastern Han The others are from the later Song, Ming, Then in the Wulong District near Chongqing, Dynasty to the Six Dynasties period (222-589 The most significant of these tombs was one able to date precisely to 193 BCE. Found in it were more than 600 precious artifacts, pottery, and bronze ware. This is the largest quantity of lacquered in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. Further study of the tomb contents will no #12 Five-Story-Tall Pyramids in the Yucatan. While working in the Yucatan peninsula's Institute for Anthropology and History and ancient Maya city, known as Ocomtun, or 'Stone They found the site using airborne laser scanning. Containing 45+ foot tall Pyramid-like structures, between 600 and 800 CE (The Late Classic). #11 New Fragments of the Fasti Ostienses For those who don't know, the Fasti Ostienses magistrates and significant events. They were originally engraved on marble slabs near Rome. But in later times the marble was reused for So pieces of them can be found all over the Well, new fragments of the Fasti Ostienses Park in Italy by the Ostia Post Scriptum excavation One of the newly recovered fasti fragments fragment, which dates to 128 CE during the events from that year, including Hadrian receiving on January 10, and his wife Sabina receiving Other important information is contained on This is important, because the Fasti are one of the late Roman Republic and early Roman So far, all the known fragments cover the #10 Shang Dynasty town in Northern China. At the Zhaigou archaeological site in northern The town dates back to the early Shang Dynasty, artifacts like bronze drinking vessels, painted Covering over 1.2 square miles, the Zhaigou from the Shang Dynasty and provides insights Archaeologists also found nine aristocratic been the capital of a state later assimilated #9 Oldest known town gate in Israel Near Kiryat at Tel Erani, a 5500-year-old was discovered. The gate dates to the Bronze IB period and to as early as 3500 BCE. The excavations site director described the living to urbanized city life with fortified The gate was likely a mandatory passageway a defense and a symbol of the town's importance. This discovery surpasses the prior oldest 5200 years old. #8 2500-Year-Old Tartessian Stone Busts Spanish archeologists have discovered five ancient Tartessos civilization (5th century Guadiana valley. The site is home to an adobe temple at Casas figurative reliefs, likely representing female fragments of three others, one identified This discovery has helped to change scholars' understood as aniconic, or only proscribing human figures. #7 10,000 Jiandu In China's southwestern province of Yunnan, 10,000 bamboo and wooden "slips" known Jiandu represents a form of book created before The majority of the Jiandu found at the site and people within the Yizhou Prefecture, established some do contain analects from Confucius). Official seals from 20 of the 24 counties culture known for agriculture and advanced Wu in 109 BCE were also found at the site. This indicates a well-designed social administrative roles were set up by the Han government. The discovery is now viewed as evidence of of multi-ethnic cultures. #6 3400-year-old pyramid in Kazakhstan In the Karagada region of Kazakhstan, a pyramid last phase of the Andronovo period in the The excavation was conducted by archaeologists the Taldy River in the Shet district of Karaganda pyramids' construction dates to between Within the pyramid's burial chamber were found that could represent proto-writing, a bronze The people who lived here may be proto-Scythians #5 New chambers in the Pyramid of Sahura at Egyptian and German archaeologists from the previously undocumented storage rooms at the Sahura was the second king of Egypt's Fifth The interior of the pyramid was so damaged explore it any further. But times have changed. The discovery was made during work on conservation of the pyramid's corridors and chambers. During this survey, the team found a passage with only traces of original walls and parts This discovery should help researchers learn time and their development. #4 Roman forts in Syria and Iraq. Declassified Cold War-era U.S. spy satellite unknown Roman-era forts in Iraq and Syria. The discovery challenges the previous belief structures. The images, which are from the Corona and appear to have instead been built to protect Now that we know where they are, it's just #3 Hidden Structures in the Amazon Rainforest in the Amazon rainforest which include geoglyphs, far as 1500 years ago. 900 earthworks, and 24 ceremonial sites and far, and these scans only covered 0.1% of Researchers estimate there could be as many discovered! The suggestion that the Amazon was an untouched #2 Assyrian Administrative Building with Tablets In a combined Italian and Iraqi effort, two been discovered in Ninevah, Iraq. The first belongs to the old Assyrian period, building that spans the 20th to the 7th centuries Inside the building, 120 clay tablets covered These texts will help researchers understand literature, administrative practices, and The second layer belongs to the more modern be more to be discovered at the site. And now we get to #1! Near modern-day Tello in Southern Iraq is in the 19th century, but the British Museum of Antiquities is undertaking new excavations This year several amazing new finds were announced. In 2022, through the use of remote sensing under Tablet Hill on the site, and some mudbrick then uncovered and more than 200 cuneiform This year, the main sanctuary of the great The temple is known from Sumerian texts. It was known as Eninnu and was revered as Archaeologists have been wanting to find this And now they have! Also, a &quot;civilization-saving&quot; water channel The ancient water channel or "water flume" water to distant agricultural areas using Western technologies by thousands of years! (Western versions appeared in the 1800s). And there you have it. My top 20 picks for the best archaeological If you think I missed anything, let me know And don't forget to check out my monthly news. You might like my little e-booklet, Why Ancient It's designed to persuade people that the You might also wish to use it to help spread you know. It's free for anyone who wants it. I've left a link in the description box below