(upbeat music) - Huevos rancheros over easy. Looks good. Take it out. This isn't your typical diner. We're putting all types of food on the table to our customers from disco fries, pancakes, eggs, club sandwiches, cheesesteaks, pastas. You name it, we got it. We try to be the top of (upbeat dance music) Breakfast sampler, table 51. Looks good. Take it out. I think New Jersey's the I think there's about At one point there probably was 600, but as you know, it's become more difficult to run these type of restaurants and these type of establishments. It takes a lot and it's become something that's unique if you're still in the diner business. (upbeat dance music fades out) So right now we're in the This is Stephen McCormick. He's our executive chef. He's gonna show us how to which we do in-house every single day. Come on in. (upbeat music) - So welcome to our &quot;meating&quot; room. This is where we butcher filet mignon, New York skirt steaks, whole chicken, Right here, we're using Also a beef tenderloin to cut our eight ounce filets for our surf and turf. - Having a butcher, in-house We're fortunate that does that day in, day out on So it's a testament to his hard work. - We go through approximately 12 to 16 filet mignon Friday, Saturday, and Sundays we're going through every single day. You know, not a typical diner is going to serve filet mignon, surf and turf, and things of that nature. It's one thing that we gave it a try to see if people would like to see it and people took to it. We always listen to our guests and what they want, and what they would We grind our scraps and trimmings, and grind it and put it into our chili. So that's one of the reasons because we're using filet Not a lot of people do, if anybody do, because it's not cost-effective. - Obviously, it's always nicer when you're buying a nice product, and you're able to cut and New York strip as opposed to being done at another facility. - [Stephen] So this is our which will be used for our surf and turf. - Believe it or not, you're coming here, you wanna treat yourself. You're comin' to Tops, get something more expensive. - We're gonna build our surf and turf. This eight-ounce Brazilian lobster tail. This is a warm water. Our center cut filet mignon, coarse sea salt, and freshly - John Benitez is the kitchen manager. He's been the kitchen manager since the first day we He does everything. He could be expoing, he it doesn't matter. - Now we're gonna take cook it to medium rare. And as that's cooking, we're gonna prepare our lobster tail now. Some nice butter, clarified butter, smoked paprika, pop this in the oven, and this will stay in here And add a little bit of butter, put it in our broiler. At that moment we have our lobster tail. And that's our surf and turf. - Diners make good disco fries. You could go to pretty much any diner, if they can't make a good disco fry, then they should shut down immediately. That gravy has to kinda soak in and go through the layers - This is our overnight brown gravy. This is our veal stock made with veal marrow bones, carrots, celery, onions, red wine, sherry, all spice, bay leaves, thyme, peppercorns, and tomato paste. And what we do is we take we roast them in the oven, and then we take our vegetables, carrots, celery, onions, we roast that as well, and then we smother it with tomato paste. We cook it overnight for So right now we're making a roux, which is equal parts butter and flour. With the veal marrow bones, we have a natural thickener, which is the marrow But we need a little bit of help just to make it the right consistency that we're looking for for our disco fries and other sauces. - [John] This gravy is laborious. It's a labor, it's a sign It's the recipe that we sort of inherited, but it's tried and true. (suspenseful music) This is one order of disco fries. - When you're making disco fries, and you're making that platform, the cooks kind of like, look at it like a masterpiece. It's only cheese and gravy on fries that was created by people that were drunk at two in the morning. - Let me get a side of grits. - My parents bought Tops in 1972. So when my dad came from and he ended up getting into And it was challenging for him because he didn't have education, he couldn't speak English, he didn't know how to write a check. He was learning on the go. He found a place in Newark, and bought it with my uncles. Without him, there would be no Tops. He's Mr. Tops. So this is Carlos. He's been here since, how long have you been here, Carlos? - Over 20. He starts the engine over here with Marcos over here in the morning. Without them we couldn't do this, man. It takes a village and they're part of it over here. - We're the backbone of the business. - I would say about 125 people are working in the back of the house from porters, dishwashers, - This is our prep cook, Santiago Garcia. He's gonna show us how we make our famous fried chicken here. - I season a little bit of Then, I put it into this bowl, so I can start with whites. - On one weekend, easily, easily, easily, we're selling at least 200 to 300 pounds. And that's just night shift, really. Like that's how much we sell. - Chicken and waffles became a staple where growing up in the nineties, I don't think anybody knew what chicken and waffles was unless you were from the South or I would say like, Harlem. - This is our pressure This machine alone is extremely important to our day-to-day operation. When we have such high this can cook eight full chickens in 13-and-a-half minutes to perfection, which is why it's used in so many specialty Once these are fried, we put then we have the orders here prepared, and we take a portion at a time, so maybe five or six orders, put it right there by the And then we start keeping track. Once we're down to about depending on what time it is, we know, add another 10. If it's busy, add 12 orders. If it's a little bit slower, we know, okay only add to whatever we have currently. If we were to use a regular fryer that's not pressured, it would take at least 18 minutes. Imagine you were to wait 18 to 23 minutes for one order of fried chicken. When we opened up the new diner, when we rebuilt, we transitioned from a lot of the old traditional machines that we had for 20 years plus. Now we're using the Rolls (energetic dance music) This is our house-made hot honey. (energetic dance music) - The new Tops that we're I mean, we didn't start of the steel 'til March of 2020. At that time also, we lost my dad, which was a bigger blow than anything we could ever even think of. At the end, we had to kind and I think my dad built us that way, where he was adamant that we needed to build this new place and give the people more. People, when they come to Tops, and that's what I love, they always try to go all out, and we wanna make sure that happens. - [John] All right, so our lobster tail is fresh water Maine lobster tail, and they're sweeter. So that sweetness pairs with our Mornay, with a cognac. - We started featuring I'd say like 2012, and it just gained popularity, and we've tried to keep Nowadays, you wanna have lower staff. You wanna have things on the menu that are easier to build, easier to make, high profit, high volume. So we're still doing things that most restaurateurs can't do and can't handle. I'm gonna take you to the bake shop. Obviously, you can't without a bakery. Cheesecakes, sponge cakes, layer cakes, pies, brownies, cookies. Bake shop has to have that in-house. This is Nathalia, our pastry chef. - So now we're gonna mix our batter for our cheesecake for the day. In here we have our cream We're gonna mix this until it becomes a very We make cheesecake about six days a week in the diner. Right now we're serving strawberry cheesecake, cherry cheesecake, Oreo cheesecake, and red velvet cheesecake. So now I'm adding sour cream This is our heavy cream. So this is our cheesecake batter ready to go in the oven. We're gonna fill our pans. (upbeat music) So now the cheesecakes are all in the pan, we're gonna put them in So we add water to the on the cheesecake and to This is the traditional and that's how we've been making it since the early '70s. - I think our most popular dessert at Tops is strawberry Tres leches sells the most, but I have to say strawberry cheesecake is the most popular. Strawberry cheesecake's and tres leches is like LeBron James. (playful piano music) I wanna satisfy and wow my We wanna make sure that they came here and they felt like this is a second home, and they can come back and they feel good. It has this dynamic of people. People that embody what We're thankful that Tops is considered one of the best diners in New Jersey, and I hope that it just keeps going. It's a landmark, it's an institution. Diners itself have been here for so many years and we have to continue to kinda keep it from Because it's rare and it's unique, so somehow, some way, (cheerful music)