The Metal Gear franchise turned 35 years old As a celebration, I, Suggestive Gaming, decided storyline of my favorite video game series. I'm going to be handling this video slightly be tackling all of the events of the series, (or at least as much as possible). While this does take the punch out of some to really appreciate the depth and complexity Now because this is going to be one of the I've enlisted the help and vocal talent store owner, GameTradeGregg from YouTube channel those out in the description below, and if in De Pere, Wisconsin). Do note that the franchise has seen some spinoffs and as such, they will not be covered in the As a bonus, however, we will cover nearly of this video, just for completion's sake. That being said, there are some non-canon the NES port of the original Metal Gear title original, save for a few minor changes), the mini-games from the re-releases of Metal Gear VS Monkey), as well as any VR or challenge Another note is that while they sit outside we will treat the PSP title Metal Gear Solid: Gear Rising: Revengeance as canon entries mainline Metal Gear story. Feel free to take these sections with a grain point of personal preference. One final note: for the story of Metal Gear release of the game to illustrate it, not Snakes. While the remake follows the same storyline it fit to represent that chapter with Hideo just as Metal Gear Solid 4 intended. Now, without further ado, this is What You Our story begins in the year 1914, where (in powerful and wealthy individuals from the (known as the Wisemen's Committee) form a In 1922, one of the Wisemen's Committee of the Philosophers, and through her father, deepest secrets. By the end of the 1930s, all of the original died, and in 1939, World War II breaks out. To secure their countries' victory in the pool together a massive sum of funds called to develop new technologies and weaponry. In 1941, the young woman raised by the Philosophers, she received in battle, is offered to come advisor. There, she meets a British Major named David missions. In 1942, a Navajo man known as "Code Talker" help turn his tribe's language into a cipher studying the biological traits of parasites. The same year, the United States begins "the massively debilitating nuclear weapons. Among the researchers involved is a scientist Meanwhile, during the Battle of Stalingrad, the various countries in the Allied Powers, the resources provided by the Philosophers) The soldiers in this unit include those codenamed The Sorrow. The Joy, now taking leadership over the others, better known for, "The Boss". During their work together, The Boss and The During a mission in 1943 to assassinate Manhattan that he's a secret Nazi spy, The Boss discovers This distraction causes her to fail the mission, and puts her into a coma for six months. The next year, 1944, during the D-Day landings The Boss gives birth to her child on the battlefield of the Philosophers quickly take the newborn In the confusion after the end of World War of the Philosopher's money laundering operations, of the Philosopher's Legacy, leaving a microfilm Volgin. The same year, Dr. Emmerich has a son, named Two years later, in 1947, the Philosophers to fight over control of the remains of the This spurs the outbreak of the Cold War. These tensions cause the Cobra Unit to disband. In the year 1950, The Boss meets a young soldier teaching him her vast knowledge in the acts The pair later develop a method of Close Quarters Around 1953, Major Oh meets a deformed assassin Soviet Leader Joseph Stalin), defects from Oh in the shadows. In 1954, Jack assists with the airborne test Atoll. While he is able to avoid serious side effects left sterile after the event. Five years later, the Boss suddenly abandons By the year 1960, The Boss's son, Adamska, Agency to work as a code breaker under the However, he and his partner, EVA, defect to The next year, President John F. Kennedy earns Around this time, the United States, needing The Boss into space as part of the "Mercury as "Dr. Strangelove". In 1962, Major Oh, now working for the United Soviet scientist Nikolai Sokolov and his family Shortly after, the Soviets send missiles towards In order to persuade the Soviets to stand Kennedy returns Sokolov to the Soviet Union, a secret weapon. Around this time, the Philosophers threaten Boss and the Sorrow, remain alive, prompting for their child's safety. This caused the woman to shoot him through his skills as a medium, his spirit is left In 1963, President Kennedy is assassinated In 1964, the CIA learn of the Soviet Union's plan the "Virtuous Mission" for the newly send in their first agent: the Boss's former guards. David Oh, now going by "Major Zero" (or is tasked with leading the mission, and he unit, XOF (led by Skull Face), to covertly FOX fly over Sokolov's position, and Jack, first HALO jump to drop into the region. With radio support from Zero, FOX medic Dr. Boss (reuniting her with her former student), about Colonel Yevgeny Borisovitch Volgin of to obtain the research for his weapon to use Khrushchev and install his own replacements. As Snake leaves with Sokolov, he is stopped an arriving GRU Major: "Ocelot", who secretly Ocelot calls his men for backup, and after using CQC, and Sokolov runs off in fear. After Snake takes out Ocelot's men, he gives more suit his firing style, complimenting before Ocelot passes out. Snake later finds Sokolov, and the pair spot a tank with the ability to launch nuclear would spell the end of the Cold War and the As Snake and Sokolov cross a rope bridge, carrying two boxes from the U.S. Army. The reunited Cobra Unit then arrive and capture Colonel Volgin soon arrives and reveals that Union, and the Boss states that Sokolov is which contain Davy Crockett recoilless nuclear The Boss then easily overpowers Snake in CQC, As Volgin goes to finish Snake with his own stops him, offering to do it herself. She holds out her hand, and Snake grabs it, bridge. Snake grabs the Boss's bandana off of her The Cobra Unit then leaves to take Sokolov Two hours later, as the injured Snake washes guidance, he watches a fleet of gunships carrying Aboard one of them, Ocelot and Volgin transport who happens to be holding a KGB concealed Volgin then decides to test out his new "toy", aiming it at Sokolov's old research facility Meanwhile, Snake watches the destruction from In the days following the Virtuous Mission, president Lyndon B. Johnson for the nuclear To avoid nuclear escalation, Nikita Khrushchev assassinating the Boss. Likewise, Major Zero approaches Snake about actions, with the CIA deciding the only way assassination mission himself. Failure to do so would result in a death sentence Snake, now donning the Boss's bandana as the region, as part of "Operation Snake as his codename) and Para-Medic supporting as "Mr. Sigint", an expert on weapons The mission requires Snake to work with the Sokolov once again, destroy the Shagohod, Unbeknownst to Snake and the rest of FOX, and the XOF unit to work covertly to ensure On his way to rendezvou with ADAM, Snake is him over their previous encounter and warns Snake refuses and tries to subdue her, but combat, disarming him before destroying his stomps on Snake's hand. Later, Snake reaches the rendezvou point, a woman on a motorcycle. However, when Snake questions her with the Patriots?", she is unable to respond "La When a GRU unit ambushes them, the woman is She introduces herself as EVA, and the pair the current mission, and Snake compliments EVA then gives Snake a pistol and a scientist is being forced to work. After convincing Snake to rest for the night and uses a briefcase radio to contact an unknown At dawn, Snake awakens, and he and EVA spot EVA gives Snake a kiss goodbye before escaping to keep Ocelot busy. After defeating the Ocelot unit, Snake spots Snake and Ocelot again banter over the young of choice, an adorned single action army revolver, When Ocelot tries to shoot Snake, he finds her motorcycle, which she uses to incapacitate After a bit more conversation, Ocelot gives EVA pulls her gun, but Snake, feeling a fondness she speeds off on her bike. Snake continues to the lab, but encounters The pair battle one-on-one until they are whose army of controlled bees force Snake Inside the cave, Snake is met by the Pain, violent beekeeper, who explodes after the Snake emerges from the cave to find a warehouse (who is actually EVA in disguise) are being Using his electrical powers to torture Tatyana, Ocelot arrives and begins to play Russian before the Boss takes his gun and scolds him. The Fear and The End then emerge and are tasked Volgin then takes Tatyana and enters the warehouse, premonition of the Sorrow. At this point, Snake has a quick opportunity from completing his mission, but if he doesn't, Snake follows and soon reaches the research by EVA to get inside and find the director's Granin. The drunken director is surprisingly friendly history as a weapons developer. Granin holds a grudge with Sokolov, whose bipedal mobile nuclear delivery system, which Frustrated that his creation will never see going to send the plans to his colleague in After Snake compliments Granin's shoes (a in on the Philosopher's and their legacy, Volgin. He then reveals that Sokolov is now at Volgin's is finishing preparations for the final tests Granin then spitefully agrees to help Snake the Shagohod, giving him a keycard to bypass a secret tunnel. On his way to the tunnel entrance, Snake is Cobra Unit, The Fear. Despite the Cobra's venomous weapons and him momentarily invisible, The Fear ultimately much like The Pain. After the fight, Snake receives a call from at the top of the nearby mountains so she tunnel, much to Snake's confusion, as he she simply states won't work). She then warns him that the Cobra Unit's in the jungle at the foot of the mountains. Snake soon comes across the sniper, and the battle. While the man is apparently energized by the go on so long that the elderly man passes Whether natural causes or Snake's bullets battle concludes with him exploding as well. Afterwards, Snake reaches the bottom of the he climbs... and climbs... and climbs to reach He soon finds the ruins, and meets with EVA She gives Snake the key to the underground short. She also informs Snake that he'll have to Groznyj Grad's weapons lab: this time as The pair then plan their escape afterward, from a lake nearby. EVA tries to seduce Snake, but the pair are They rush out to the cliffside, and EVA hops at the base. Snake observes the base through binoculars oil drum. Volgin then blasts the drum into the air to Volgin then removes a transmitter from the was being used by somebody for information. An arriving Major Ocelot disagrees with the The Boss and Tatyana arrive shortly after, Unit members at Snake's hand. She then warns Volgin to tighten security, to retrieve the Davy Crockett weapons. After Volgin leaves, Ocelot is left alone he notices she's wearing different boots, Snake makes his way into the tunnel and is Unit: the jetpack-donning, flamethrower-wielding After another battle, Snake again emerges fellow Cobras before him, collapsing the tunnel Snake reaches the weapons lab where he knocks by Sigint to disguise himself as the GRU Major. Snake gets past security and silently observes containing the Shagohod's research data After she leaves, Snake reveals himself to is too late, and the Shagohod is about to tank to travel at over 300 miles per hour, ballistic missile at a higher velocity and Based on the Phase 2 prototype, Volgin plans War and spiral the world into wide-spread To prevent this, Sokolov tasks Snake with tanks to destroy the weapon. The scientist then reveals that he knows Tatyana does not recognize the name "EVA". Sokolov tries to deny Snake's rescue, knowing States, he'll be forced to create weapons and interrupts their conversation. While Snake is able to get his disguise back techniques to determine he isn't the real Volgin then shoots Sokolov in the knees, allowing him. This victory is short-lived, however, as the and removes his mask. Volgin proceeds to torture Snake to "pay him and Sokolov, apparently killing the latter Snake refuses to talk, and the Boss informs torture, so his efforts will be in vain. During the beating, a transmitter falls off she planted it on him so the Cobras could Volgin, suspicious of this answer (given that tactical advantage), asks the Boss to prove by cutting out his eyes. The Boss then takes out her knife, but before Ocelot, questioning her loyalty, begins to but Snake swings his body and knocks him out fire his weapon right next to Snake's eye, The Boss slaps Ocelot for his behavior, and Ocelot then punches Snake in the back, secretly while musing about his new appreciation for After he leaves, the Boss takes one of Ocelot's him the weapon and telling him to run. After the Boss leaves Tatyana, now alone with leaves him alone to figure out how to escape Snake passes out from his pain and exhaustion brig. After using a fork to take out the bullet be hiding a "Fake Death Pill". Snake befriends his guard, Johnny, and learns sharing his first name) in the United States. While Johnny doesn't let Snake out of his which are secretly a knock-out gas delivery Snake uses them, or another method, to escape When he gets to the sewers, however, he gets discovered Snake's escape,locked Groznyj Ocelot and his unit arrive and give chase, tunnel with a drainage waterfall overlooking When Ocelot pulls a gun, Snake is forced to of which nearly kills him. When snake regains the strength to move, he Sorrow. The spirit then forces him to trudge through those he has killed on his mission so far. At the end, the Sorrow disappears, and Snake his tooth prior to the mission to counteract As Snake reawakens, the Sorrow reveals his behind her killing him. Once out of the river, Snake calls EVA, and a nearby waterfall. There, EVA arrives on her motorcycle, and EVA finds the transmitter Ocelot planted in The next morning, she gives Snake some C3 him to plant the explosive on the Shagohod's unlock the area. EVA snaps a photo of Snake with a camera hidden through the waterfall on her motorcycle once Snake makes his way back to the weapons lab, There, he plants the C3 on the four fuel tanks, before he can leave, he is confronted by Volgin The Boss then surprise-attacks Snake, disarming Ocelot then holds Snake at gunpoint, and Volgin spy. He then goes on to inform Snake about the came to obtain its wealth as well as how it to "bring order to the world". Volgin then hands the Boss the microfilm of away, leaving Volgin and Ocelot to deal with While Ocelot tries to challenge Snake, Volgin man-to-man. To make things a fair fight, Ocelot tosses While Volgin's power of electrical control emerges victorious. Afterwards, Volgin commands Ocelot to shoot that he made a promise to the Boss. The explosives are discovered, and the facility for one more battle, which Snake again wins. With Volgin incapaciated, Snake escapes, and outside. The pair ride off just before the C3 detonates, and is currently waiting for Snake at the his mission. Before the pair can make their way to the ruins of the facility, still intact, piloted EVA then drives her motorcycle, while Snake men, despite Ocelot's interference. The pair then lead the Shagohod to a nearby Once the Shagohod passes, Snake shoots the tank is able to use its acceleration to avoid Snake and EVA then mount her bike once again, the Shagohod again, this time disabling it. Volgin exits the tank, and controls it manually on him and brings him down. The colonel refuses to give up, but a storm the man, he bursts into flame, finally taking state atop the Shagohod. EVA and Snake bask in their victory, but their give chase. The pair escape on EVAs motorcycle, but she After a rough landing, Snake is able to nurse They then sneak past the remaining defenses escape craft. Snake leaves EVA to confront the Boss, and grass lilies. Snake asks the Boss why she's doing what planned to reunite the world in the wake of Seeing no meaning in the idea of enemies and borders while returning from her mission to The Boss fills Snake in on her history, as him the snake-shaped scar on her abdomen from After thanking him for listening to her story, pulling her weapon, called "the Patriot", her title. The former pupil and master then battle amongst his friend and mentor. As she lays dying, the Boss gives Snake the as her weapon, asking him to kill her. After taking a moment to gather himself, Snake trigger, painting the field of white lilies As the Boss's spirit reunites with the Sorrow, As the pair lift off, they are surprised by boards the craft. Snake bests the young man in CQC, but Ocelot himself as "Adamska", before asking Snake's The pair choose their guns, and draw, but farewell and exits the craft. EVA and Snake then successfully fly out of forces, who are soon called off by Krushchev Snake and EVA later reach a safe house in celebrating. The next morning, Snake finds EVA missing, her wake. In the message, the woman reveals that she a man), nor did she ever work for the KGB Instead, she was a spy sent by the People's Legacy for the country, which she was able data), while Snake was asleep. She reveals that she is an agent of the Philosophers, that while she was ordered to kill Snake, Finally, she reveals that the Boss's defection, nothing more than a ruse; political theater for Washington DC. The Boss's death at Snake's hand was her able to fulfill. Later, Snake and his FOX companions meet with including United States President Lyndon B. Service Cross before claiming that he has "Big Boss". Snake salutes the president and shakes his the CIA Director's. An official from the Department of Defense up a unit like FOX in the army, led by somebody, missions. Snake leaves the event alone, and visits Arlington grave marker. There, he leaves her gun, as well as a bouquet Tearfully, he salutes her grave, knowing that live on only in his own heart and mind. Sometime later, Ocelot calls the Chief Director destruction, as well as Krushchev's downfall. However, right after, Ocelot calls the Director agent, and that the Boss's mission was a in America's hands. The film the fake EVA stole was a fabrication, of it, was returned to the United States, He then theorizes that the KGB must still Ocelot finally reveals that he obtained the and promises that he is "always at the CIAs Immediately after the events of Groznyj Grad, Scientists and transported to a research facility alive and experimented on. Similarly, the Navajo parasite researcher The End, and discovers that his photosynthesis powers), were the result of ancient parasites To further study these parasites, Code Talker into his own body for observation. Following the success of the Snake Eater mission, Agency, or "ARPA". Shortly after, "EVA" disappears, with Around this time, Big Boss meets a young child (his surname evolved from the German word Big Boss places the boy in a rehabilitation and used in secret experiments to create the Sometime later, Ocelot secretly locates the and keeps it in his own possession. By 1970, Major Zero retires, and Big Boss after. In November of 1970, the rogue FOX unit sends Big Boss, bringing him to a prison cell on When Big Boss (still commonly known as Naked Cunningham, who interrogates him on why he as the location of the missing half of the Snake, unaware of the missing half's existence, leave him for the time being. In his cell, Snake meets his fellow prisoner, who shares his plan to escape the cell by them to reach the adjacent room. Snake does so, finding and donning FOX's Snake finds Campbell's cell and the man currently imprisoned in: an unfinished Soviet overrun by the FOX unit. Unable to open Campbell's cell, Snake instead to make a call for rescue. There, he broadcasts an encrypted signal which that Zero has been arrested on suspicion of Snake's former unit stole a top-secret weapon She also reveals that Snake has also been After their discussion, Sigint calls to provide to capture whoever started FOX's revolt He also suggests that Snake try to convince FOX to join his cause instead. After finding the key to Campbell's cell, Snake then asks Campbell for his help in clearing injuries and illness hindering his movement. With Campbell now leading the mission through Beret's target: a nearby Soviet patrol base. When Snake arrives at the base, he eavesdrops the powerful stolen weapon, which can supposedly Snake also learns of some kind of secret document it to find that it outlines the details of actually use the secret weapon. Campbell determines that the best way to get who is disgruntled with FOX's current commander: Snake knocks out a Soviet soldier stationed Campbell. The pair interrogate the soldier, named Johnathan, from Gene's command. Johnathan refuses, telling them that the Russian create their own nation after their government the weapons facility down. Snake gives Johnathan a talk about loyalty, Big Boss, the captured soldier agrees to join Soon after, Campbell's illness gets worse, malaria. Snake returns to the communications base and be infected with a particular strain of malaria facility to look for preventative medication. Jonathan gives Snake the location of a small shipment of supplies, and Snake heads there. Unfortunately, Snake finds no sign of the materials sent to a nearby lab. Meanwhile, a helicopter flies over, in which and Campbell. Hoping to locate the malaria drugs, Snake There, he overhears Gene, Cunningham, and soldier codenamed "Null". Snake then sees their "psychic specialist", Further inside the lab, Snake finds Null, recognizes the young man. A woman resembling Ursula then enters, claiming As soldiers enter the room looking for Snake, The woman covers for Snake, and when the guards twin sister: Elisa. Elisa proceeds to fill Snake in on her history the most powerful psychics in all of the Communist Gene years ago as part of a FOX mission. She then shows Snake Null, and explains that memories and emotions to make him a better This treatment unfortunately requires a "re-calibration" Elisa then gives Snake a medicine for the telling him to head to the harbor. After treating the squad's malaria, Snake Snake and the group are then able to locate After planting TNT at various facilities in able to cross the bridge safely and reach There, Snake witnesses Soviet Colonel Skowronski former Vietnam war-partner, code-named Python, Python throws Skowronski in a cell, then freezes equipped suit. After Python leaves, Snake questions the eccentric disdain for Gene, who has taken over his base. Snake then shoots the frozen lock, freeing Snake then searches the harbor and finds an written on it. He investigates the crate to find it mostly behind, leading him to believe it once contained Snake soon receives a transmission from an care of Volgin" before introducing himself Ghost. Ghost then reveals that the weapon Gene stole tank, but this one can fire multiple warheads Additionally, this weapon uses the bipedal, his "Metal Gear". Ghost theorizes that FOX must have had a U.S. and they are probably hiding out at the nearby Ghost then asks Snake to stop Metal Gear, Snake and Campbell continue to recruit more of FOX's warhead storage facility. When Snake tries to infiltrate it, however, The man reveals that after being injured in its own temperature, causing the CIA to develop The pair then battle, and despite the freezing emerges successful. Afterwards, Python warns Snake that if he to hold his men's lives in his own hands. Snake then helps Python to his feet, and the Campbell realizes that the warheads have been his conversation with Ghost, Snake decides official involved in the smuggling of the or ICBMG. After sneaking inside, Snake finds the official to a nearby missile silo. After locating the underground silo, Snake At its entrance, however, Snake is stopped During the battle, Snake recognizes Null's isn't able to explore the thought, as Cunningham to capture Snake. After losing contact with Snake, Campbell After questioning a guard at the silo, they a nearby safehouse. There, Gene and Cunningham interrogate Snake, out of him near impossible for the uprising Gene asks to speak with Snake alone, and after to Snake: that the theft of the ICBMG was the Cold War in order to keep the age of soldiers power and importance. As it turns out, FOX was instructed to steal the Soviet Union. Gene, a product of the U.S. Government's be the "ultimate battlefield commander" to lead this uprising; but he decided to birth Meanwhile, Campbell's men continue to interrogate location of the safehouse. Sometime later, Gene speaks on a phone call the Soviet Union has agreed to stay out of Gene then asks who is helping Ocelot behind man with the same code name as Null": Zero. The pair then wrap up the call, agreeing to Afterwards, two guards rush into the room, The perfect soldier, obsessed with completing being held, but Gene stops him, and has him As Campbell's men continue to search for The woman is able to use her own limited telepathic has begun preparations for Metal Gear's She predicts that the weapon has been taken nukes, and pleads that Snake take this opportunity After finding the location of the safe house, and find Snake, cutting their leader free On their way out, however, they are stopped the remainder of the Legacy is hidden, shooting While Snake continues to deny any knowledge the Pentagon told him Snake stole the KGB's Suddenly, a truck plows through Cunningham's Snake loads his wounded men into the truck, Snake introduces Campbell to Elisa before of the assembly plant. On the way, Elisa confides in Snake and tells revealing that she betrayed Gene after learning should never be used in any circumstance due that later led to the development of her and Snake shares his own past with nuclear exposure Elisa tells Snake that despite her sister's she still believes in him, and thinks he'll shoots down due to his sterility. The pair find the assembly plant and Snake Gear. As Elisa and a group of Snake's men arrive men in tow, halting their progress. Suddenly, Metal Gear activates, and begins The pilot then reveals himself as Colonel Snake uses the distraction to rush over to call off the rest of his men. Gene then reveals his true trump card, gesturing Elisa then pleads with Snake to shoot her, simply watches on as "Ursula's" personality Ursula then tells Snake that she will kill snake children" before knocking him down. Gene then reveals that through the experiments her personality split into two: the powerful Elisa. Ursula then uses her abilities to take control the cockpit before taking his place at the Snake is forced to fight Metal Gear, using its weak points and eventually bring down Snake tries to rescue Elisa, but before he blast. Seeing their means of threat now gone, Gene's and throw down their arms. A frustrated Gene then chastises Snake for seeing how the soldier caught Ocelot's eye. Snake asks what Ocelot has to do with anything, Snake then hears a frantic cry from Ghost, alive and well, who reveals that this Metal Metal Gear, but instead a test model produced Sokolov, who was rescued from Volgin's prison to the man, but cannot allow the launch of Snake then spots the real intercontinental and Gene uses his unique power of speech from in the area about the end of the Cold War, who their real enemies would be afterward, preparing to kill them all. This causes gunfire to break out amongst the dying from his wounds. As Snake lays with his fallen comrade in his Snake and Campbell then focus their efforts they must take out power to the area to get After planting a timed explosive on the nearby back to the silo. On his way, however, Snake spots a pile of Null, indiscriminately killing anyone in his Null expresses his frustration that Snake It's at this point that Snake realizes that years prior in Mozambique, Frank Jaeger, now While Null recognizes his name, he refuses instead attacking Snake. The two fight, and Snake is able to beat the Afterwards, Jaeger remembers Snake, who apologizes to be abducted by who he believes were the Jaeger forgives Snake, thanking him for saving goes off. Snake is then able to reach the silo and enter to the underground facility. During his trip on the elevator, however, platform. Surprisingly, Cunningham states that he doesn't of Defense, who, after growing threatened orchestrated Gene's stealing of Metal Gear, make Gene fire nuclear warheads at the Soviet and putting the Pentagon back in charge. Cunningham then reveals his own mini nuclear operation. Cunningham orders Snake to head to the facility's to the United States while Gene fires the with a drawn pistol. Refusing to live his life like his mentor, to allow the nuclear warheads to launch. Cunningham refuses to let him pass, forcing Snake is able to damage Cunningham's flying if he's going to die, he's taking Snake He then arms his miniature nuke, but before the man, and luckily leaving his weapon unlaunched. At the bottom of the freight elevator, Snake There, he sees Gene, standing around the bodies man claimed killed themselves after feeling Snake then informs Gene of the Pentagon conspiracy, all along, including Cunningham betraying Gene states that he was simply using the CIA nukes at the CIA headquarters and the Pentagon twin lairs in one fell swoop. With the world fallen into chaos and without to rebuild it in his own design. Gene plans to call his new organization of but Snake denounces his idea, stating that soldiers", and they would instead look for Gene compares these new soldiers to the Boss, to speak her name. Gene then tells Snake that he wasn't given Gene claims that Volgin launching the Davy was not a "change of plans", but was instead The entire situation, including Snake killing cunning strategist" working for the United Snake demands Gene tell him this individual's the Boss died for her calling, and now Snake Gene places his hand on the Metal Gear's explodes, and Elisa appears, reunited with Elisa states that nuclear weapons should never they cause. Gene throws a knife at her, but she is able Realizing this, Gene instead outmaneuvers her in the chest before simply walking off Snake rushes over to speak with Elisa, who control room, and he must stop him. Snake agrees, and Elisa looks into his future, about him: he will destroy Metal Gear, but children (which she refer to as Les Enfants another will save it. Snake asks her what she means, but she dies Gene. Snake reaches the backup control room, where in launch mode. Gene then challenges Snake to find out who a grueling battle, Snake emerges the victor, didn't create the better soldier, but perhaps Snake tries to stop nuke's launch, but Gene him a microfilm containing the "equipment, Army's Heaven so he can carry on "the he dies. Snake calls Sokolov and asks how he can stop there's no way he can stop the launch sequence, Gear Unit" on the missile (which allow for able to stop it but firing the nuclear warheads. Using an RPG, Snake tries to damage the missile, Snake's men then arrive and offer their fight. The nuclear missile launches into the air, gunfire and Snake's rockets, the Metal Gear in the atmosphere. Sokolov calls Snake to congratulate him on Meanwhile, the Director of the CIA is being attack, but he is met along the way by Ocelot, The Director states that he's holding a Philosophers, including its members and the Legacy that was returned to the CIA. Ocelot then shoots and kills the director's As the Director asks Ocelot what he's doing, the Philosophers, taking back the other half a reality. He then aims his revolver at the Director, Sometime later, Snake returns to the U.S. with Campbell, who has recovered from his Frank Jaeger. Campbell states that the man that will likely land him in the hospital The pair then bid farewell, hoping to meet Snake emerges from the plane and is met by him with a packet of documents. Later, he reads them in his hotel to learn forces unit of the U.S. Army called "FOXHOUND", his abilities as a leader. At some later point, Ocelot receives a call information: Zero. The two discuss the Director of the CIA's Ocelot gloats that Zero's plan worked out half of the Legacy and using Snake as an insurance Zero then expresses his desire to study the to apply it to a project involving manipulating Intrigued, Ocelot agrees to help with this Big Boss into their new organization, which Zero, Ocelot, and Big Boss form a successor and Para-Medic with the goal to use their government to build the world The Boss envisioned. Shortly after their formation, Big Boss is the group as well. However, Zero and Big Boss begin to disagree to grow between the two. Zero, now using Big Boss's reputation as lead, begins to fear that he'll lose his As a contingency plan, Zero carries out his genes", a plan officially titled: Les Enfants Using an egg donated by her Japanese assistant, Boss's DNA to create eight embryos which Two embryos are engineered to survive: one the other to express his recessive genes. Both clones are also genetically modified as a fail-safe. Nine months later, EVA gives birth to the as "Liquid Snake") and David (later known Using this research, another clone is created genes as Big Boss, in order to create a genetically acceleration. This clone is later called "Solidus Snake". Upon learning of the project's existence, Feeling alone and betrayed, Big Boss leaves in FOXHOUND. Around this same time, EVA and Ocelot also Without a country to call home, Big Boss begins countries. On one of his assignments, in Colombia, he named Kazuhira Miller, whom he spares in combat. Big Boss then forms his own mercenary outfit, Without Borders in English) and convinces The pair then work to recruit other like-minded now colloquially known as "MSF" and stationed Meanwhile, Code Talker continues his studies a strain of archaea that metabolizes uranium, On November 4, 1974, Big Boss (still simply by Kaz Miller, who arrives with two guests: who introduces himself as Professor Ramon for Peace along with his sixteen year old Galvez asks for the MSF's help with an Costa Rica who he believes are connected to Because of Costa Rica's Peace Constitution, Galvez asks MSF to drive the forces out of In lieu of payment, Galvez offers a forward While Kaz is excited at the prospect of a to be treated like a pack of "dogs of war", negotiate instead of using force. Galvez then reveals that he isn't there Paz's accord. Paz, who had been captured and tortured by lost friend days prior, proclaims that she peace. Galvez then reveals that they know Snake's came to him. Later, Kaz tries to convince Snake to take down their roots and expand MSF. Snake brushes it aside, and instead believes off the unknown aggressors, who Snake also Snake then goes to speak with Galvez, and the CIA out of Central America to let Russia Galvez then reveals that the CIA has something what it is. Galvez then plays a cassette Paz's friend Snake recognizes a voice: one that shouldn't Galvez then confirms that the voice on the Boss. Intrigued to find out how the Boss could be tape and agrees to the job, stating that he's Days later, Snake infiltrates one of the CIA the loading of "Spears" on a cargo ship. He questions the guards to learn that the but a fight causes Snake to knock out the Snake then witnesses an unknown aircraft fly melody. Snake calls Kaz and informs him of a map he bringing Nukes into Costa Rica. Snake heads out to work with the Sandinista Spanish) to retrieve intel of the area, while offshore facility, which he names their "Mother Snake soon locates a Sandnista base, where who informs Snake that her father has been The young woman, Amanda Valenciano Libre, hostile group to be CIA, and that she has During their conversation, the group is suddenly earlier.The aircraft opens fire on them and from its gunfire. As several smaller drones arrive Snake is reveals that the craft is an unmanned weapon, Amanda's younger brother, Chico, and flies Shortly after, however, Amanda herself is able to cut herself free, dropping her to Amanda makes a hard landing, breaking her her yet again. She yells to Snake to shoot the drone, and and causing Amanda to fall into the jungle Snake rushes to Amanda and finds that she Amanda tells Snake about a nearby Banana Factory plant set up by the KGB for the FSLN to run. Amanda lements keeping the operation a secret in the mountains to look for him. She then passes out, and Snake has her taken Chico. Snake soon finds the boy in his cell, who the region is going: to a tunnel into the known as "el basilisco". Chico then reveals that despite his young operations in the Banana Factory. Snake then offers to take Chico back to Mother being tortured in captivity, he fears returning Snake then gives the boy a chance at a "new Snake then heads to the train depot and finds through the tunnel. A tank then rolls up and attacks Snake, destroying Snake is able to single-handedly take out he receives an alternate path into the mountain Snake follows the route and finds the facility Searching the trucks, Snake finds... a strange him to conclude that the nukes had already Snake continues into the facility, soon overhearing actual launch of the nukes. One of the men, a wheelchair-bound engineer, to merely act as a deterrent, while the other, "Hot Coldman", wishes to fire the nuclear Coldman then states that Huey's "creation", called "Peace Walker", is built off of He then pushes the man's wheelchair down Snake runs over to Emmerich, and frantically Before he can answer, the two men then hear where he spots the singing aircraft carrying gunship. A tank then arrives, equipped with an artificial machine. This AI-driven weapon, codenamed the "Pupa" After disabling the tank Snake climbs inside the craft. After the battle, Snake speaks with Huey, introducing himself. Huey tells Snake that the Pupa was only one a flying, singing type he saw before: the Huey then tells Snake about "Peace Walker", based on the "Metal Gear" idea, as well its usefulness as the "perfect" deterrent. Huey, the son of one of the leaders of the achieve peace is by removing human intervention. To achieve this, he invented the individual an attack would immediately be retaliated world unable to use nuclear warfare. Hoping to stop Coldman from launching his warheads' location: a base near the border. Huey then reveals that while he gave Peace Pod, the project is still missing its critical high-level decision-making, which is currently Dr. Strangelove. Huey then gives Snake his ID badge for security give to Strangelove, which he instructs Snake Snake then asks Huey to join MSF in their Snake to find Strangelove's lab. On his way, Snake finds a French ornithologist Cecile had entered the area looking to record captured two women discussing something: the Cecile was captured by Strangelove, but eventually object, where she heard a voice say the name Cecile tells Snake about an ID badge she recovered by her captors, and he has her extracted way. Snake reaches the AI facility only to find he begins to look for the one Cecile used After consorting with Cecile over radio Snake the voice of the boss that Paz claims was had never met Paz before (a matter Snake decides guard who took her ID and retrieve it from hidden inside some Mayan temple ruins. Inside, Snake spots a familiar white horse; the Boss. Snake then hears his former mentor's voice him with a fair bit of malice, due to her Snake gives her his reasons for killing the the legitimacy of his mission, vowing not the death of the woman she came to fall in a decade prior. Strangelove then reveals that she has given to "meet" her. She then leads him into a large room housing voice. Strangelove reveals that in return for her she demanded all of the information the CIA mind as the AI cerebrum, called the "Mammal Snake discovers that her true goal, however, the truth of why she had to die by Snake's Despite claiming he has no desire to ask the speaks the name "Jack", the Mammal Pod repeating her same words warning him during Snake inside the pod's chassis. Strangelove then challenges Snake to kill the Mammal Pod. Inside the pod, Snake frantically tries to words of warning, but he is unable to, as and a gas causes Snake to pass out. In his dreams, Snake is haunted by his final When he awakens, Snake sees the Mammal Pod wake, the flying Chrysalis AI arrives and After a battle with the weapon, Snake enters to use for Mother Base's own AI weapon. Afterwards, Kaz calls Snake to give him the Walker from Huey: an underground rock quarry Snake then rides the Boss's horse to the close to the cerebrum AI to destroy it. When he enters, however, he is spotted and is able to defeat. This victory is short-lived, however, as the After another grueling battle, Snake again of its components for Mother Base. After its destruction, a piece of the machine mechanism and allowing Snake into the facility. Inside, Snake overhears Strangelove and Coldman scientists take a break. Snake uses this distraction to enter the Mammal AI Boss, and he tries to ask her if she defected When the AI admits having no recollection that the machine isn't truly the Boss, and Before he can, however, the pod opens again, a squad of Coldman's troops. Coldman reveals to Snake that not only was planned the whole thing for the CIA, being he didn't reveal any details. Coldman explains his plan of a New World Order deterrent: Peace Walker, and Strangelove asks improve the Mammal Pod. Snake tries to escape using CQC, snatching commotion, but he is ultimately outnumbered Snake is then questioned under torture by the Boss's defection. He simply claims that the Boss not only betrayed Strangelove then wonders why Snake would continue him and continues to press him for the truth. Snake holds true that the Boss was a traitor, may complete the AI. After continuous torture, Snake is overwhelmed Later awakening in his cell, Snake uses the After calling Kaz to inform him of his escape, have gone missing. Snake has Kaz contact the KGB for more information, the Mammal Pod. When he returns to it, however, he quickly captivity. Coldman confronts Snake, informing him that activation sequence is complete. Strangelove tells Snake that his silence was mission was to be killed by Snake, fulfilling This final puzzle piece allowed Strangelove the Mammal Pod. Coldman then reveals Peace Walker's initial The ensuing trade winds will then scatter region, killing crops and fish to give him This target area would also completely destroy Coldman then prepares Peace Walker for launch, achieve world peace is through controlled Coldman and Strangelove then exit with Paz Walker. Outside the facility, Snake watches as Peace Snake tries to stop the massive machine triggering After an intense battle, Snake causes the Coldman then flies his helicopter overhead causing it to escape over the mountains. The Boss's horse then returns to Snake, Dodging the giant weapon's defenses, Snake border, the terrain proves too steep, as the as Coldman, Strangelove, and their captive Snake is then forced to put the animal out with the Boss. With Amanda's help, Snake travels to Nicaragua Walker is being transported to. Disguising himself as a box, Snake sneaks where he finds a security monitor room. There, Snake spots a feed of Paz on a security Coldman has gone to the communications tower launch. Suddenly, alarms blare, and Snake gets a call headed towards Nicaragua to help him fight. Snake then fights his way through Coldman's where he takes out a helicopter gunship before Inside, Snake finds Coldman, holding Paz hostage. Coldman boasts that they have entered the the AI believe a nuclear strike has been initiated Coldman then prepares to enter the final launch revealing that he had been working with Coldman The "Professor", whos real name Vladimir that he has double-crossed him, and all of on Coldman. Zadornov then states that he plans to steal Cuba to frame the United States to spread War. Zadornov then hands Paz a pistol and tells did to her under imprisonment, but she can't Zadornov then grabs her hand, lifts the gun, aiming for a non-fatal shot, as he still needs code. Zadornov then forces Strangelove to change to destroy the Mammal Pod if she refuses, Zadornov finally reveals to Snake his final order to give the FSLN a reason to rise up from America's control. Zadornov, receiving word that Peace Walker he can execute him, gunfire erupts, and they MSF and FSLN forces. After shooting down the Soviet guards, Amanda celebrate their victory. Snake gives his thanks, and Amanda hugs him. Kaz takes Paz and Coldman back to Mother Base to destroy the Mammal Pod and disable Peace Strangelove soon arrives, apologizes to Snake the AI so they can "speak" with the Boss. Aboard the helicopter back to Mother Base, codes into his briefcase. In his last breath, he reveals that Peace to the North American Aerospace Defense Command Soviet attack. Believing that the humans in the U.S. government retaliatory strike, they would realize a machine "perfect deterrent" will finally bring Coldman then holds his two fingers in a "peace" Snake and Strangelove speed off to Peace Walker's false data, and more importantly, prevent There, Snake battles the giant machine once Snake is able to disable it. However, Huey soon informs him that the data is still being transmitted. Huey taps into NORADs communications to learn the U.S. government prepares to launch intercontinental Snake then calls NORAD, using his status as down. After proving his identity, the chairman believes is stopped by another member, who frantically Meanwhile, the Mammal Pod opens, allowing Once inside, Snake removes the AI's components However, the data uplink does not stop, and launching the retaliation. Huey determines that the Reptile AI is still Snake again fires at the machine to try and Despite unloading all of his artillery on it down. Suddenly, the Mammal Pod seemingly awakens, Peace Walker to walk into the nearby Lago transmission and save the entire planet. Snake then gives the "Boss" one final took from her, letting the wind take it away Later, Snake and Kaz have a private conversation, for the truth. Realizing that by putting down her gun and him by abandoning everything she was as a Snake then states that he won't make the wants to be called "Big Boss". After the events in Nicaragua, Paz and Strangelove working alongside Huey on MSF's own AI weapon, Using the components Snake recovered from warhead recovered from the depths, ZEKE is deterrent. Somehow, Zadornov escapes from his cell on him. More surprisingly, he is able to repeat this After his final escape, Snake finds Zadornov fires a gun at him. Snake is forced to fire back, hitting the In his final breath, he states that his "work hand (which doubles as a rocket projectile) from Snake's gunshot. Snake calls Kaz, and baffled at how Zadornov that he must have had help from inside MSF. Suddenly, Kaz shouts that ZEKE has started Snake rushes to the top of Mother Base to hangar, surprisingly with Paz in the cockpit. Paz reveals that she made some "modifications" multiple escapes. Paz then states that she's "taking it Paz then tells Snake her real name: Pacifica mission she gave to MSF were all fabricated is about to reach its goal. Paz explains that in the wake of the Cold begin, with Cipher controlling the flow of creating the illusion of peace through control without borders. She then proposes that Snake works with Cipher control of MSF and ZEKE. Snake predictably refuses this offer, and warhead at the United Snakes, framing MSF new age of deterrence around the fear of extremist Paz then prepares ZEKE for launch, forcing Snake is able to emerge victorious, destroying waters. Afterwards, Strangelove and Huey work together towards each other. Elsewhere, Snake and Kaz speak again, and also means "Zero", revealing that his and the upcoming new world order of electronic Kaz then admits to Snake that he secretly from the very beginning, but chose to use While Snake is initially angered with Kaz, as in a post-Cold War world, their new business Snake then knows that by interfering in international their strongest enemy will be the changing He then addresses the MSF troops and states or ideology, but for their only home: their Months later, MSF receive notice that the for nuclear capabilities, which they believe mission. While they initially refuse the inspection, believing that if they can hide their true clean and they can continue to act in secret To prepare, Big Boss and Kaz send all of the homelands, except for Huey, who prepares ZEKE it from the inspectors. Meanwhile, the remaining FSLN are sent with Dr. Strangelove, luckily, had departed Mother AI. Around the same time, Miller receives reports by Belizean fishermen who found her drifting camp in Cuba. Kaz and Big Boss then determine that they her from giving up information about ZEKE, Word begins to spread around Mother Base about to be with his sister, Amanda. However, during his travels, he runs off, guilt over a failed attempt to stop her from Unfortunately, Chico is captured himself, Paz: Camp Omega. This camp, a United States black site, has as Cipher's strike force) and their leader and Chico. After days of relentless torture, including Face learns of Mother Base and MSF's details. Skull Face then forces Chico to send a distress Skull Face then asks Paz for Zero's location, contact with him since the Les Enfants Terribles Asking him to kill Zero once he finds him, Afterwards, Skull Face has Paz strung up, recording her screams on cassette. While Big Boss makes his way to Camp Omega delivers this cassette to Chico, implying He then tells the boy to give his regards his XOF troops. Removing the group's logo from the chopper, is in, and the pirate crackdown is a go. After he and his men board their choppers, and head towards their destination. Big Boss arrives at Camp Omega shortly after There, he finds Chico in one of the cages, creating a commotion and forcing Big Boss Big Boss then carries Chico to a rendezvous As they wait for the chopper, Chico awakens, of Paz's torture, claiming that she's After the chopper arrives, Big Boss loads Using clues from the audio cassette Chico to the camp's Administration building, and When he reaches the building's basement, Big Boss carries her out of the facility to his way to put her out of her misery. Big Boss meets the chopper as it arrives and Once out of Camp Omega's airspace, Chico and Big Boss calls over the medic onboard. Big Boss and Chico hold Paz down as the medic out a ticking package with a "Peace" symbol Big Boss then receives a call from Huey, who at Mother Base, and the preparations (including Later, as the helicopter nears Mother Base, fallen silent. As they near, they see a horrific site: Mother on the offshore base. The UN Inspection, as it turns out, was all and destroy Mother Base, and his "trojan At this point, unbeknownst to the others, by a XOF helicopter. The helicopter lands on one of Mother Base's Miller. While he is able to get Kaz onboard the chopper, and the helicopter narrowly escapes as Mother of Big Boss's men on the stronghold and end... or at least in this universe (more Above the open waters, Kaz laments being "played worked so hard for, taking out his frustration Startled, she tells Big Boss that there's removed it. She soberly opens the chopper door and tells As she falls, the second bomb explodes, blasting The medic rushes in front of Big Boss, shielding the explosion. The force from the blast sends the helicopter helicopter, sending the fiery wreck into the Afterwards, the smoke from Mother Base's blamed it on "money-hungry private militias". The United States Secretary of Defense was of the inspection being held, the UN denies In the wake of the helicopter crash, Big Boss, to a hospital in Barranquilla, Colombia. Miller survived with minimal injuries, but The doctors are able to resuscitate him, but The medic took shrapnel to the head and was Zero hears about the attack on MSF, as well to have her secretly transport Big Boss and would be safe, a task she only accepts to Zero then has Skull Face relocated to Africa There, Skull Face learns of Code Talker's archaea. Code Talker had learned that the parasites speak, and Skull Face forces him to weaponize when exposed to a particular language. Those infected with a particular language the parasite if they spoke enough of the language Through the process, Skull Face is infected forcing him to speak only that language, losing Zero then devises a plan to have the medic into a physically identical "phantom" to live in the public eye as the legendary re-take the mantle. Zero finds Ocelot and convinces him to watch He also contacts Miller, instructing him to (keeping the body double plan a secret from does will be "V has come to". Meanwhile, the Les Enfants Terribles project of the experiment are separated around the David is sent to the United States and Eli escapes Zero's care and disappears in Africa). The third boy, Solidus is at some point given close control. In the late 1970s, Skull Face recovers a winged person when she died, and he creates a convincing of the vocal parasite before sending it to Upon its receipt, Zero calls Skull Face, who him to prick his finger and infect himself. As Skull Face carries on a conversation, Zero hold. Zero soon realizes what Skull Face has done, stating that now the world can never become Zero spends years working with doctors to to somewhat slow its effects. In order to continue Cipher's work controlling with fellow Cipher member Donald Anderson, renamed the "Defense Advanced Research Projects system of AIs to carry out his will. Dr. Strangelove also briefly works on this unknown incident. Kaz Miller subsequently goes on to form a Dogs", which later obtains another offshore They then work to build this plant into their In one of his final moments outside of hiding, with the man and speaking about the events intelligence. Zero then disappears completely, falling unconscious behind for Anderson and DARPA to build his In 1979, Frank Jaeger fights as a mercenary a married couple. Shortly after, he discovers their young daughter Feeling immense guilt for his actions, Frank and giving her the name "Naomi Hunter", "Frank Hunter". Meanwhile, Huey is brought into Cipher to He is reunited with Strangelove when she is the AI for the machine using the recovered During their work together on this new Metal have a romantic affair, with Strangelove conceiving While Hal is a toddler, Huey puts him in Sahelanthropus's to enter due to it being designed for an AI When Strangelove learns of this, she grows Huey, furious at his son being taken from the Mammal Pod, where she suffocates and dies her AI representation). In February of 1984, a young boy with psychic research lab in Moscow. The boy is fitted with a gas mask to block him. proves ineffective however, as the plane's housing Big Boss and the medic. The hate within their subconcious feeds the crash. The boy survives the crash and is taken to living body of Yevgeny Borisovitch Volgin decades. The boy, now given the codename "Tretij is again attracted to the subconscious negative the former colonel as a fiery demon known The pair then burn down the lab and begin revenge. Meanwhile, Kaz Miller is in Afghanistan, training (hoping to learn more about his role in the One day, however, his unit is attacked and known as the "Skulls"), an elite group that give them superhuman abilities. Miller escapes the Skulls, but loses his arm He calls Ocelot to ask for rescue, but is Soviets. At the same time, Big Boss finally awakens crash that put him into it. Ocelot is there to greet him, and informs past nine years, including Zero's condition, Les Enfants Terribles, and finally, the medic's While Big Boss originally doesn't agree him knowing, he eventually concludes that him in the helicopter, he'd also give it Ocelot then informs Big Boss that the "Man awakening, and will be on their way to attack made; including waking up the body double. After the body double awakens, the nurse attending come to" to a number provided by Cipher, As the medic regains consciousness, he is who informs him of how long he was in the crash, including 108 pieces of foreign material some of it the bone and teeth of those who Most of the pieces were removed, however, too dangerous to be removed, so they were protrusion from his forehead. The medic then looks down and sees that one shock and forcing the nurse to sedate him. Later, Constantinou wakes the medic up and killed by a XOF assassin behind him. The doctor then shows him a picture of the medic, which he turns over to see a message his hypnotherapy prevents him from understanding. The doctor then gives him a new name: "Ahab", the reflection, he sees his face: that of Suddenly, the doctor is attacked by the assassin kicked off his bed. After killing the doctor, the assassin turns Big Boss, but suddenly, the real man, disguised from his neighboring bed and tackles her. After a short struggle, Big Boss is able to subdues him with a knife to the shoulder. She then begins to strangle the medic, but bottle of the liquid at her, causing her to The medic looks towards his missing arm to Big Boss rushes over and introduces himself before injecting "Ahab" with a medication now under complete attack by XOF. While Ahab is unable to move swiftly due to strength to follow Ishmael through the hospital, Soon, a fiery explosion knocks the pair back, Ahab, believing him to be the true Big Boss. Suddenly, the hospital's sprinkler system vanishes. Ishmael and Ahab continue their escape out choppers on the way. While hiding from a group of XOF soldiers Ahab spot the Man on Fire again, who kills Ahab's leg before the monster is distracted swipes down using his fiery powers. Ishmael shoots a sprinkler, dousing the Man him to vanish. After Ahab relocates his leg, the pair continue, They continue down to the hospital's lobby Ishmael breaks away from Ahab, creating a running off. Ahab follows, spotting him outside, trying vehicles. Before Ahab can leave the hospital lobby, moves the wreckage of the downed helicopter, The Man on Fire then arrives and takes out to avoid him, unsuccessfully, and the Man As the Man on Fire walks over to Ahab, preparing struck by an ambulance, which drives him directly The ambulance then returns to Ahab, and the seat. The pair then drive off, leaving the Man on of the hospital at them to try to stop them. An XOF helicopter then appears in front of Ishmael then smashes his head on the steering Ahab tries to take the wheel, but soon crashes off the road and knocking Ahab out as well. Shortly thereafter, Ocelot arrives and pulls the pair leave Ahab behind. After removing his bandaging and shedding iconic eyepatch and a change of clothes, and Ocelot then gives Big Boss a fabricated passport, with Ocelot stating that the man is the new Ocelot then lights a cigar for Big Boss, who before riding off on his horse to return to plan, including using hypnotherapy on himself Big Boss then smokes his cigar, and rides hiding to rebuild what he's lost and finally in South Africa: "Outer Heaven". Meanwhile, the new Snake awakens to see Ocelot's with the Man on Fire on his own, flaming unicorn Ocelot tells Snake that Miller sent him, but where he was captured by the Soviets. Ocelot and Snake ride off towards a whaling Over the next few days of travel, Ocelot helps "Venom Snake", as well as a bionic prosthetic Snake and Ocelot reach Afghanistan and scout white horse (named Diamond Horse, or D-Horse Snake soon finds Miller and cuts the man free, carrying him to a Diamond Dog's helicopter, When he reaches the landing zone, however, some kind of mist covering the area. Snake then spots the Parasite Unit, who give Snake then takes Kaz on horseback, escaping zone. Once they arrive, Snake loads Kaz onto the Mother Base, and their new home as "Diamond On their way, Miller laments on how big Cipher well. They land on Mother Base and Kaz is loaded When Kaz asks Snake to lead Diamond Dogs to only to fight for the future, not the past. After familiarizing himself with running Mother some missions to make matters easier for them During one of them, Snake discovers a puppy back to Mother Base, where it's given an "DD" before being trained to help Snake Snake later accepts a mission from the CIA Bee" before the Soviets can find it. He successfully finds the weapon, but as he in the Skulls' mist. Suddenly, he sees Tretij Rebenok before he With Snake subdued by the hand, Skull Face the real Big Boss), telling him to stay dead The giant hand lets Snake go, and picks Skull robot it's attached to, Sahelanthropus, Snake then sees the Skulls infecting the nearby puppets to fight. After a battle with the Skulls and the Soviet successfully able to take the Honey Bee back Later, Miller receives a call from Huey Emmerich Hoping to retrieve Huey for interrogation, On his way, Snake is ambushed by a female She fires at Snake, prompting a long range learns that she has superhuman agility as Snake wins the battle, knocking the sniper When he gets closer, he recognizes her: as Cyprus that tried to kill him; inexplicably While Miller tells Snake to kill the agent more use at Mother Base. While Ocelot and Miller argue, Boss eventually Pequod. Inside the helicopter, however, Quiet awakens distraction to seemingly jump from the chopper On the way back to Mother Base, Pequod is The jet fires a missile at them, and Snake gatling gun, but the movement of the helicopter Suddenly, Quiet reappears, having only turned successfully shooting down the missile before Snake then takes control and tries to shoot to aim her sniper and shoot the pilot, killing water below. When the Pequod arrives at Mother Base, Miller allow Quiet, an agent of Cipher, to set foot Quiet simply jumps down to the base, turning and their men before reappearing. Kaz and Ocelot again argue over whether or argument to tell them to put in a cell. As she's taken away, Miller again warns Snake simply responds that if and when the be the one to pull the trigger. Returning to Afghanistan to search for Huey, with a pair of bionic exo-legs allowing him Face over changes made to Sahelanthropus, time to prepare AI to pilot it. Skull Face declines using an AI, believing ten years prior. A soldier then whispers to Skull Face and Skull Face throws Huey down a nearby set of camp by a soldier piloting a small, bipedal Skull Face then leaves the area as well, and to storage. Snake makes his way to the base camp and finds Inside, he spots the Mammal Pod, and The Boss second guesses the assessment. Snake then spots Huey and places a bag over using Huey's Walker Gear to potentially Once they reach the extraction point, a helicopter retreat once Sahelanthropus arrives, with his telekinetic abilities. Skull Face, being carried by the machine, to walk upright" before it advances on Snake The pair are able to slip away from Sahelanthropus mounted gun to defend the aircraft and damage There, Huey is taken captive and interrogated tactics to try to learn how Huey was involved maintains his innocence, claiming he was merely Knowing that they need proof before they can presence on Mother Base a secret from their Ocelot does reveal that Huey provided some interested in the research from Afghanistan of their funding to Central Africa on a "weapon Later, Ocelot surmises that Zero likely didn't it must have been a move orchestrated by Skull As such, they realize that Diamond Dogs' and their leader Skull Face. Snake then travels to Africa and works several and Skull Face's operations. After finding the Parasite Unit in the area, At one point, Snake and Ocelot visit Quiet Ocelot tells Snake that Quiet seems to breathe some kind of photosynthesis (much like the These biological needs force her skin to be wear much clothing, making everyone who tries their words &amp; deeds. Ocelot then suggests Snake take Quiet out Snake agrees to this idea, knowing her skills After more jobs in Africa, Snake discovers back to Mother Base where they can be taken Additionally, Huey comes up with an idea to Gear" much like Metal Gear ZEKE that can across Africa. While Snake feels some deja vu, he allows . Snake heads back to Africa to look for the being held in an area called the "Devil's Snake arrives and finds a ghastly sight: a earbuds implanted into their throats playing every language except for English), and strange Snake travels through the factory and finds Snake tries to free Shabani, but spots Skull the test subjects. The gunshot startles Shabani, who begins to spots Snake. Skull Face then sics Tretij Rebenok on Snake, Suddenly he stops however, as Tretij Rebenok kills before he can burn to death from the Snake makes a mad dash out of the facility forced to fight the monster and hold him off to extract. Snake ultimately succeeds, and is able to Shabani's necklace back to one of the child Diamond Dogs then get another mission in Africa They determine the best way to do so would the "White Mamba" back to Mother Base, fall apart. Snake finds the group taking shelter in a White Mamba, who's real name is "Eli", him back to Mother Base. There, Snake pats the boy on the back, welcoming This angers Eli, who rushes Snake, taking Snake quickly overpowers him, however, dislocating Snake then puts his arm back in place, and head, he'll be allowed to leave. Later, Miller suspects Eli is likely the same project. Hoping to confirm or deny this, Miller orders Unbeknownst to Miller, Eli is in fact the using a sample of Venom Snake, a body double, At some point, Quiet attacks a soldier on his throat. Snake and Ocelot are forced to subdue and Snake figures it's payback for the treatment to strengthen security on her cell. Ocelot later calls Snake and informs him of with the same growths on their chests that Among those infected is the soldier Quiet Snake is then tasked with quarantining those susceptible to the infection. Inspecting the sick personnel, Snake discovers language; Kikongo to be exact. He then quarantines everyone on Mother Base to try to figure out what's going on. Miller then sends Snake to find a man linked Snake recovers this man, who reveals that the pathogen is an old man named Code Talker, Snake heads to the location given to him, on the way. After fighting his way through them, Snake Snake infiltrates it and finds the old man Snake shows Code Talker photos of the men's parasites as well as their spread through He gives Snake a pipe containing herbs the Face stole his research into the organisms except for English off the Earth. Snake carries Code Talker out of the mansion escape to Mother Base. On the way, Code Talker explains that the bacteria, Wolbachia, that he discovered that females, halting all reproduction. Code Talker warns, however, that this would The helicopter then flies through the Parasite killing the chopper's pilot, causing it Snake and Code Talker survive the blast, but Due to their mist preventing another extraction, battle with the superhuman unit, he is able to arrive. On the way to Mother Base, Code Talker reveals a test to see if he could use the metallic him the ability to arm the world with nukes the kill-switch with the archaea. Ocelot asks Code Talker what he thinks of and he confirms that it's the Kikongo strain Code Talker provides the Wolbachia bacteria the spread has stopped, but those who are Miller then vows that Skull Face will pay Later, Ocelot and Miller interrogate Huey archaea on his exoskeleton legs. They try to learn what Skull Face's next "OKB Zero", where Sahelanthropus was being Miller then leaves, while Ocelot delicately Huey's leg, forcing him to remain completely Snake then boards a helicopter to head for Sahelanthropus. Snake heads to Afghanistan to locate OKB Zero onto the chopper, and Huey also tags along, to prove his allegiance to Diamond Dogs. Snake infiltrates OKB Zero and finds Skull simply tells him that they both know pain, him to follow him. At Miller's suggestion, Snake follows Skull his past (including working on Operation Snake revealing that his ultimate goal is to eliminate a child: English. In doing so, Zero's control would be eliminated, language, which he would control. After Snake and Skull Face simply stare at stops at the power plant Snake found Huey. There, Skull Face reveals the Man on Fire, for Snake. However, as the Diamond Dogs helicopter flies towards Snake attracts the third boy's power. Sahelanthropus then activates, and Tretij its moving platform, crushing the phantom whooooo's lust for revenge could be so powerful. As Skull Face is dragged to safety by his Sahelanthropus, now controlled by Tretij Rebenok Sahelanthropus chases Snake out of the power the giant machine. Sahelanthropus lays waste to all of them, Knowing he is about to die, and that Cipher basks in knowing that the thirst for revenge before the very machine he created to unleash Snake tries to escape Sahelanthropus in one forced to fight the machine on foot. Using any and all resources available to him, it enough to prevent Tretij Rebenok's abilities With the threat eliminated, Miller arrives return to Skull Face. Snake, Miller, and Emmerich find Skull Face's Snake opens the capsule and finds three vials Snake asks where the other one is, with Skull close" to him. Snake then tosses the other two aside (unbeknownst before disappearing). Skull Face pleads for Snake to put him out commander's rifle and (with Miller's help) for what he did to Kaz, as well as MSF. The pair then leave him to die in agony, before basking in his "revenge". Afterwards, they all return to Mother Base, arrives in tow. Although the battle with XOF is now over, a "phantom pain" he'll be forced to Miller then speaks before the Diamond Dogs, eyes, stating that his men will now be his possible defectors. At some point after, Eli stares towards Sahelanthropus, him the vial of parasites before floating With Skull Face dead, Snake moves on to other with his teammates (especially Quiet), and At one point, Snake is shocked to discover no visible scars in Mother Base's medical After finding out about several surviving the field, Snake rescues them and brings them In doing so, he comes to the realization over caused by his guilt over not being able to Ocelot then learns that the Soviets discovered their outpost to secure it. Once Snake finds the Man on Fire's corpse, to life alongside its fiery unicorn. The phantom then pins Snake down, and Volgin's As the man stares Snake down, however, he back. Unable to fulfill his revenge, Volgin falls to extract his body in an arriving chopper. Back at Mother Base, Ocelot has Volgin's examined and Ocelot learns about how Tretij for revenge. At some point, Eli begins to lash out, angered of his "White Mamba" moniker, attacking boy through CQC. Later, the children gather around a chlorine which fell down inside (likely caused by Eli, Quiet discovers the commotion and jumps inside While Miller still distrusts her, Quiet soon chemicals, but holding the necklace. Snake carries her away so she can recover, Despite this event, however, some of the kids Snake finds them and extracts them back to behind it was Eli, planning some kind of uprising. Ocelot questions Eli, who asks where his "father" Eli claims that the boys just wanted to "go as Sahelanthropus breaks through the wall, Eli then jumps into the mech's cockpit, Snake tries to stop him, but his efforts are as Tretij Rebenok carries Sahelanthropus away by the other child soldiers follows. Snake later receives the results of Eli's DNA match with Venom Snake. While Emmerich finishes Battle Gear, Ocelot him, especially after Sahelanthropus was somehow Hoping to learn more about what he was up to his lab to retrieve the Mammal Pod. After finding the pod and bringing it to Mother corpse inside. They then question Huey again, and learn that the children on Mother Base to climb inside Soon, another vocal cord parasite outbreak with the Wolbachia having no effect. Snake investigates the Quarantine Zone, hearing stating "it all makes sense now, I win." Inside the Quarantine Zone, Snake smells a several dead or infected Diamond Dogs. He soon finds a scientist who states that giving Snake a pair of googles. Code Talker hears the "snail" reference the hosts to get outside the zone so they With no other option, Snake is then forced to determine who has the parasites. Snake then leaves the Quarantine Zone, walking by his hand, the grief of which causes him Later, they cremate the bodies, and prepare Mother Base. Huey blames Snake, and he agrees, taking the that he'll instead turn their ashes into forever. Miller and Ocelot then learn that the mutation was the result of a massive spike in radiation other than Huey Emmerich. Miller learns of Huey's contact with a client offered to sell the parasites in exchange Huey is then held on "trial" where all the rest of the Diamond Dogs. At the trial, the AI Pod is brought forth, last moments inside the pod, proving that Miller then finds Huey guilty, and while the sentences him to exile, much to Miller's Huey is then loaded onto a life raft with As he's lowered, Huey argues that Snake As he hits the water, Huey is forced to throw stay afloat, losing his ability to walk once The others watch him drift away, and Ocelot up to him. Meanwhile, while Quiet is treated for her only confirms to Diamond Dogs that she is but it also reveals that she's infected to believe that she is a sleeper agent for them. Ocelot then tortures Quiet to try to get her living up to her namesake. Snake, realizing that she could have killed they all exit, leaving Quiet alone with Code The pair then speak in Navajo, and Quiet reveals of the parasites by Skull Face, but refuses its spread. Realizing that she can't stay at Mother spread without her speaking, Quiet uses her return to Afghanistan. Miller, believing Quiet knows too much about takes up Snake's offer that he be the one When Snake goes to search for her, he learns and taken prisoner. On his way to rescue her, Snake is told the why she never spoke and why she left. Meanwhile, Quiet is tortured by her Soviet drown her. She soon breaks free, however, and fights Snake then arrives and tries to cut her free, them off, taking out her frustrations on her Reinforcements arrive, however, bringing waves As the onslaught draws to an end, the pair round, which knocks them both out. Snake awakens and carries the unconscious from the Soviets searching for them. While hiding however, Snake is bitten by a as well. Later, Quiet awakens and hears Pequod calling to stay at the landing zone for evacuation. Quiet tries to respond in Navajo, but Pequod speak English in order to direct him to their Snake is later given an antivenom and awakens, Snake, refusing to leave in the helicopter, He follows the trail to where it ends: a cliffside, message to Snake, recorded on cassette. Snake listens to the recording, where he finally in which she admits that while she was initially else, even without using any words, giving In her final words, she expresses her gratitude By this point, Venom Snake's hypnotherapy version of the events that transpired during hospital stay and escape in Cyprus. He then receives a cassette tape labeled "From a message from the real Big Boss, calling the public image of Big Boss moving forward. At some point, Snake then turns the tape over, Intrude N313" containing stored data which Snake then looks in a mirror and sees his shrapnel protruding greatly. He then punches the mirror, shattering his created for him. Sometime later, Ocelot and Miller discuss Miller, feeling slighted by being lied to, Ocelot reveals that Big Boss had been working in the form of a military nation, and that help Venom Snake in order to carry on Big Ocelot then states that one day, the age of want to settle the score with their "father", play. Miller states that he'll do everything in as the sons, as strong as possible to send Ocelot then realizes that one day, the twin likely be assisting separate sons, meaning the other; a prospect Miller is completely Later on, it's discovered that Eli and the sample of the English vocal cord parasites Cipher begins to search for them, leading to find them first. As it turns out, Eli had infected himself other child soldiers in his own "Kingdom Boss" in exchange for Sahelanthropus's Snake infiltrates Eli's "kingdom", but a massive battle, during which Sahelanthropus Eli emerges from the cockpit, and Snake protects As a grenade goes off, however, Snake is left soldier, shooting him accidentally. Snake then rushes over and mourns the boy, Ocelot then leads a cleanup crew, and a medic As they prepare to take him back to Mother of the vocal cord parasite, forcing them to In their last moments together, Eli blames this life, stating that one day he'll destroy Snake then leaves Eli with a pistol with one to wipe Eli's Kingdom clean with napalm. Eli watches them fly off with the remains his head before he hears the sound of breathing He then sees Tretij Rebenok before him, and removes the parasites from Eli's vocal cords. The pair then levitate away as the napalm Venom Snake watches the strike out of the self once again in the reflection. Eli and Tretij Rebenok then arrive in New to continue the boy's revenge on his father, During the late 1980s, the third Big Boss is dispatched to fight in the Liberian Civil There, he kills a couple before finding their Solidus adopts the boy and names him "Jack", of the "Army of the Devil": a group of Jack proved to be a ruthless killer, earning the Ripper". After the war, however, Jack goes missing. In 1987, Roy Campbell, now serving in the with his brother's wife, which leads to Meryl Silverburgh, who is kept unaware of During the 1988 Olympic Winter Games in Calgary, Heffner meets and falls in love with Frank The couple try to marry, but Gustava is denied This failed defection causes Gustava to lose joins the Czech State Security. Frank Hunter then goes to the United States In the early 1990s, one of Big Boss's clones, into the United States Army Special Forces He later is recruited into the FOXHOUND unit, Miller, now going by the name "McDonell as "Master Miller". Around the same time, Eli (codenamed Liquid working for the British Secret Intelligence In 1991, the Cold War ends, and the Soviet In 1994, Liquid Snake is rescued by the U.S. By 1995, Big Boss completes his work building to his former role as commander of the FOXHOUND (who still has no knowledge of his lineage), Fox") who had also joined the group. Unbeknownst to those in Outer Heaven (which Diamond Dogs), Venom Snake then takes his nation. In 1995, the Western Powers catch wind that FOXHOUND is then tasked with infiltrating in Gray Fox. The mission goes south, however, as Gray Fox he is able to transmit two words of a distress Now with all of the pieces set in motion, sending his rookie son, Solid Snake, into Ultimately, Big Boss hopes he can trick the intel, as well as eliminating one of the products by setting Solid Snake up to die. Solid Snake infiltrates Outer Heaven through the role of commanding officer via radio communications. Snake soon finds and rescues several captives fighters in the area who end up assisting Diane, her brother Steve, another woman named Snake soon gets himself caught by the Outer same holding cells as Gray Fox. In his cell, Snake is able to punch through into the adjacent cell, where he finds Gray Fox informs Snake about Outer Heaven's secret tank, able to launch from any terrain. Fox then sends Snake to search the compound who built the machine, knowing that if there's would know it. On his way out of the prison, Snake is stopped who opens fire. Snake is able to avoid his shots and reach confiscated. After discarding a tracking device hidden to the Shotmaker and defeat him in battle. Continuing his search for Dr. Madnar, Snake elite mercenaries: the Machinegun Kid, who Snake determines that he must parachute off but when he reaches the roof, he finds a Hind After taking the aircraft out, Snake jumps making his way to Madnar's cell. When he reaches it, however, Snake finds the had been moved to the basement of a nearby After using mines to destroy a tank in his finds it heavily guarded. Big Boss then calls and suggests that Snake before changing his radio frequency for further Snake then finds an enemy uniform and dons Inside, Snake fights off an armored bulldozer discovers that the man inside is simply a killing the decoy while Snake narrowly escapes. Snake then continues his search for the real the Fire Trooper. Snake then gets a hold of Jennifer, who prepares defeat a pair of humanoid cyborgs called "Bloody Afterwards, Snake finally reaches the real he rescues his daughter, Ellen. Snake then finds Ellen, who reveals that Madnar and he was forced to create Metal Gear against With Ellen safe, Snake returns to Madnar, 100th floor basement of a building to the plastic explosives at Metal Gear's feet As Snake makes his way to Metal Gear, Schneider the identity of Outer Heaven's leader. Before he can reveal it however, he is stopped again during the mission. Snake then finds and kills the final mercenary, one of which is Jennifer's brother. In the basement, Snake finds one last POW, behind the Outer Heaven uprising: his commanding Snake finally reaches the TX-55 Metal Gear, to destroy the giant machine and prevent its After Metal Gear's destruction, Outer Heaven's Snake to make a quick escape. On his way out, however, Snake is met face-to-face In actuality, this man is his commander's The two Snakes then battle, with the rookie Big Boss's body double, fulfilling his final Solid Snake then climbs back to the surface completing his mission and returning home. Afterwards the remains of Outer Heaven are destroying the nuclear weapons left behind. At some point later, the real Big Boss speaks meet again some day. After the NATO bombing of Outer Heaven, several are rescued by Big Boss, who forgave them The resistance leader, Kyle Schneider, is join NASA's secret "Black Ninja" project, set of armor and given drugs to enhance his Meanwhile, Solid Snake departs FOXHOUND after After a short stint in the CIA, Snake works relocating to the Canadian wilderness. Roy Campbell, former vice-command of FOXHOUND, left in Big Boss's wake. In 1997, Big Boss and his followers fight then come to be known as "Zanzibar Land", for soldiers. He is able to gain Gray Fox's trust and to design the new Metal Gear D. Zanzibar Land sites all around the world, seizing any weapons nuclear power. Around this time, Huey Emmerich, who has made a woman named Julie Danziger, discovers that teenaged son, Hal. Huey, finally overcome by his grief and betrayal, to drown himself, taking his stepdaughter, Emma screams for Hal's help, but he doesn't While Emma survives the ordeal, she develops for her stepbrother. Hal also lives with the guilt, leaving home of Technology before graduating early with corporation. Huey's death is forever believed to be an By 1999, the world is on the brink of an energy That is until a Czech scientist named Dr. calls "OILIX" that can produce large quantities materials. On his way to reveal OILIX at an international agents of Zanzibar Land, who take him hostage. With the threat of both nuclear attack and Roy Campbell brings Solid Snake out of retirement Zanzibar Land as part of "Operation Intrude rescue Dr. Marv. Snake successfully infiltrates the stronghold the signal from a transmitter hidden in his Shortly into his mission, Snake receives a had infiltrated Zanzibar Land a month prior her help and expertise. Also available to Snake for support via radio fulfilling the promise he made to Ocelot over Snake follows the source of the signal and does. Again, the doctor Snake finds is nothing but before prompting a battle. After Snake emerges successful, the dying the leader of the Outer Heaven Resistance, others from the NATO bombing of the military Schneider believes that Snake will soon see the location of Dr. Marv's guard, telling Schneider then dies from his wounds, and Snake Snake finds and follows the guard, entering However, he soon hears tapping on a wall, message to get a radio frequency. Snake dials in the frequency and is shocked be Dr. Drago Prettrovich Madnar, Outer Heaven's Madnar lies to Snake, telling him that he to develop another Metal Gear for Big Boss, indeed survived the Outer Heaven incident. Madnar gives Snake Dr. Marv's location, behind, as the wall separating them is too He then provides the frequency of a local sending Snake on his way. Snake heads towards the tower, receiving a themselves as Snake's "number one fan"), While Snake avoids the mines and guards in D, forcing him to retreat. Under advice from Holly, Snake locates some Man", one of Zanzibar Land's powerful While the man's speed surpasses Snake's, the man. Snake eventually recovers the Stinger missiles found arsenal to take it down. He proceeds to the tower, receiving a distress was blown and she was captured by the enemy. She describes her location inside the tower, Holly reveals that she made contact with Dr. to the roof to try to find it. On the way, Snake comes across and kills another On the roof, Snake uses advice from Jacobsen to it that contains a code. Master Miller helps Snake crack the code to finally speak with Dr. Marv. Unfortunately, however, the doctor doesn't with him. Snake calls Dr. Madnar, who has him look for who was captured along with them but was able Knowing Gustava would be the only woman soldier women's restroom to wait for her to enter. After following the woman inside, Snake introduces Gustava Heffner, the figure skater who won The woman denies this, and changes the subject Snake gives her his radio frequency, and she he's being held in is on the other side Dr. Marv also expresses concerns about Dr. safe. Snake and Gustava reach Madnar's cell, and On the way, however, Madnar asks to take a some business". Left alone with some time to kill, Snake and that she is the ex-olympic skater Snake suspected Hunter, including their failed attempt at State Security. Dr. Madnar then returns, and they continue When they reach the bridge over the crevice, it's safe. When he reaches the other side safely, Gustava bridge, destroying it and blasting her back Gustava gives Snake her brooch, alluding to dies from her injuries. Dr. Madnar is then taken away by Zanzibar attack is revealed: Metal Gear D. The giant mech's pilot then reveals himself FOXHOUND squadmate Gray Fox, who taunts him Snake calls Holly, who suggests he find a the other side of the crevice. On his way, Snake is ambushed in an elevator Horsemen", sent by Gray Fox. Snake defeats them and is successfully able to reach the prison area. There, he is ambushed by another mercenary battle with the last mercenary: Night Fright, With more help from Master Miller, Snake finally he finds a ghastly sight: Dr. Madnar standing Madnar tells Snake that he took too long, he was subjected to. Snake, however, notices bruising around Marv's Madnar then reveals that Marv, a video game on a microfilm inside of an MSX game cartridge Madnar couldn't find the key to it. Suddenly, Snake receives a call from Holly, after speaking with her contacts at intelligence Madnar was rejected by the West, which led Madnar reveals his true intentions to Snake, his grand creation: Metal Gear. He then reveals that his "bathroom break" Fox to coordinate the attack, and explains turn over the OILIX plans. Madnar then attacks Snake, strangling him Snake then fires multiple Stinger missiles he is soon defeated. Snake soon learns that Gustava's brooch so he puts it in a freezer, which turns it Snake then returns to Dr. Marv's cell and it and obtaining the MSX cartridge with the When Snake goes to leave, however, Dr. Madnar Ellen and has a change of heart, telling Snake using grenades to destroy its legs. Suddenly, a trap door opens below Snake, and again confronted by Gray Fox piloting Metal Metal Gear's legs and after a long battle, In the resulting explosion, Snake catches cartridge away from him before running off. Snake is then forced to abandon all of his Gray Fox to a minefield where he challenges Before the fight, Snake gets a call from military Gray Fox's real name is Frank Jaeger. Snake realizes "Jaeger" is the German Gray Fox was the man Gustava once loved, who Snake then defeats Gray Fox in battle, and Fox revealing his admiration for Big Boss, vagrant soldiers like himself. Gray Fox also reveals that he was Snake's before he calls out Gustava's name one last from one of the mine's detonating; continuing Snake doesn't have to search for long, as Snake then enters a nearby room to find Big Snake, hoping to rid himself of the nightmares Big Boss, who simply responds that they'll this battle, he'll just be fated to fight Big Boss then imparts the same message The the two begin their final battle. Snake uses his ingenuity and takes Big Boss out of a lighter and lacquer spray and using In his last moments, Big Boss tells Snake from his wounds. Snake is soon met by Holly, and the pair make Fighting through the remainder of Zanzibar reach the location, but find the helicopter Snake continues to hold them off, but runs The helicopter pilot, Charlie, arrives in mounted guns, allowing Snake and Holly to Sometime later, Snake, Campbell, and Holly and Snake is offered to rejoin FOXHOUND. He denies this offer, however, and slips away of Alaska. Following the events of Zanzibar Land, Dr. survive, with the latter two just barely. Big Boss's body is recovered by Cipher's comatose, in cold storage, where Dr. Clark again extracts his "perfect soldier" genes new, top secret unit of the United States Forces" whose genomes are rearranged to Gray Fox is also experimented on by Dr. Clark, and gene therapy to turn him into an emotionless Around this time, EVA (now going by the moniker birth to the "sons of Big Boss") regains "Revolver Ocelot" after his weapon of to overthrow the Patriots. In the year 2000, Ocelot and Big Mama recruit to join FOXHOUND as Dr. Clark's assistant, killed. Around the same time, Roy Campbell retires the unit, converting it into an elite counter-terrorism He recruits his old friend Tretij Rebenok, as well as Revolver Ocelot (fulfilling his Son of Big Boss, while also plotting to destroy Other members were then recruited, including In 2003, Naomi secretly helps her brother free, he kills Dr. Clark before escaping. Naomi then helps her brother enter hiding, psyche broken, and his identity mostly erased. Over the course of the next few years, Naomi and Patriots spy named Richard Ames on the that targets and kills only specific people back to an idea originally conceived by Zero. In early 2005, a nuclear test exercise is coast of Alaska, which houses a nuclear weapons The test is conducted by ArmsTech and DARPA Forces' supervision. In the early 2000s, The Patriots arrange for President of the United States. Under his leadership, a covert organization purpose of launching surprise attacks on allied However, growing angry at the Patriots for secretly works with Ocelot to convince Liquid After learning of the impending FOXHOUND revolt, brought into the unit and sent to Shadow Moses. Meanwhile, Master "Kazuhira" Miller is In February of 2005, FOXHOUND and the Next-Generation weapons disposal facility on Shadow Moses including DARPA Chief Donald Anderson (Operation of the Patriots) as well as the president FOXHOUND threatens to launch an experimental a new Metal Gear codenamed REX, making one Richard Ames and United States Defense Secretary his niece, Meryl's safety as a bargaining Campbell is then tasked with convincing Solid another single-man infiltration mission under Five hours later, Snake is retrieved from to a nuclear submarine called the USS Discovery. There, he is met by Campbell, who fills him as FOXHOUND's medical chief, injects him to enhance his abilities as well as a cochlear via "codec" calls. Also in this injection is the FOXDIE virus, targets on Shadow Moses, save for Donald Anderson. The FOXDIE plan is kept secret from nearly Campbell and Snake. When Snake learns about the terrorists' Liquid Snake, looks identical to him, Snake and Baker while learning about the terrorist's infiltration. Snake's mission is a failure before it can Donald Anderson is currently being questioned. Liquid Snake, requiring two launch codes for has Ocelot torture the DARPA chief for his down another core member of the Patriots as who knew his true identity and motives. Ocelot apologizes, lying that it was an accident, member Decoy Octopus (a master of disguise) activating Metal Gear REX's alternate launch Meanwhile in Los Angeles, California, Richard home of his former wife and Defense Intelligence The group forces her to provide support to information about the various weapons, nuclear Unbeknownst to Campbell and his team, Ames through this open line of communication, giving Snake infiltrates the facility unseen via ascending a nearby cargo elevator. Snake sneaks by the guards and follows up on the way up. On the surface, Snake again spots Liquid, out a pair of planes sent as a diversion, On his way inside the facility, Snake is introduced Analyst Mei Ling, who designed the codec and After successfully entering Shadow Moses's by his former drill instructor and one-time or at least a man claiming to be. Snake and the others are unaware of Miller's claiming to be him: FOXHOUND's leader, Liquid "Miller" gives Snake information on the to keep his own tabs on Snake's mission Snake soon finds the prison area and sneaks another containing a young woman (Meryl Silverburgh). Snake finds the man he believes to be Donald terrorists nuclear abilities. Decoy Octopus, under the guise of the DARPA that Psycho Mantis was able to probe his mind to believe that the only way to stop the terrorists Action Link" (or PAL) system to deactivate the ArmsTech president is currently holding. During their conversation, the DARPA Chief before dying, with Snake believing his death In reality, Decoy Octopus had been infected succumbed to its effects. Meryl hears the man's death in the neighboring Sasaki, knocking him out and quickly stealing Snake exits the DARPA Chief's cell and spots held at gunpoint by a disguised Meryl, who Snake pulls out his own weapon, realizing one of the so-called "genome soldiers". Their conversation is cut short when a squad to work together to fight them off. After the battle, Meryl runs off, with Snake as she traverses. As Meryl reaches a nearby elevator, she is and he forces her to fire at him, preventing Snake continues on, finding ArmsTech president with several C4 explosives set to trigger Revolver Ocelot then arrives, bragging again he uses to prompt a shootout with Snake. Suddenly, their battle is interrupted when an invisible assailant, who also cuts down With Baker safely out of harm's way, the the assailant's optical camouflage, revealing Ocelot runs off carrying his severed hand, erratically while screaming in agony before Snake rushes over to Baker and asks if he while his mental implant prevent Psycho Mantis proved too powerful, and he did end up talking. Snake asks if the DARPA chief also had an confusion. Snake asks Baker for the PAL keys, but he telling Snake that he can find her codec frequency Snake asks Baker if there's any other way to look for ArmsTech's top engineer: Hal where he was working to lead the Metal Gear Baker then gives Snake an optical disk containing REX test data. After hinting that Naomi knows something about clutch his own chest, and dies in the same chief did. Afterwards, Campbell tells Snake to contact he finds her codec frequency, he makes contact. After gaining her trust, the pair discuss Meryl gives Snake the location of Emmerich's Snake then heads out to look for him, agreeing scientist. Snake heads towards Emmerich, but is stopped himself "Deepthroat" (also referring to warns him about mines in his area. Snake brushes off the deja vu and gets past time by FOXHOUND member Vulcan Raven, commanding Snake is able to use various grenades to disable behind to report back to Ocelot. After more help from "Deepthroat" and to reach the hallway to Emmerich's lab, kind of high-frequency blade. At the end of the hallway, Snake finds the Snake follows the ninja into the lab, finding Snake distracts the ninja, who then challenges Emmerich hides inside a locker while Snake reveals to Snake that the pair have a history. Snake then realizes that this ninja is none dead for years. Gray Fox begins to convulse yet again before Afterwards, Snake calls Campbell to share them in on Dr. Clark's experiments but keeping After the battle, Snake retrieves Emmerich Gear, with the scientist revealing that he for nuclear launch, lamenting that the curse Emmerich claims to only know about the experimental He then gives Snake REX's location, but behind and hide with his own stealth camouflage Snake tries to call Meryl to have her watch scuffle with some guards. Forced to go after her, Emmerich hands him look for Meryl in a women's restroom. The doctor then asks Snake to refer to him convention", and the pair separate. Snake looks for a guard with Meryl's distinct her to the women's bathroom where she's Finally face-to-face with no disguises, the war. After, Snake asks Meryl for the PAL card keys, her one. The pair agree to destroy REX instead, and On the way, however, Psycho Mantis again takes turn her gun on him. Snake knocks her out, and the powerful psychic Snake's mind. Snake is able to outsmart the man, getting In his final moments, Psycho Mantis reveals Snake removes the man's gas mask allowing he asks Snake to put it back on. The man formerly known as Tretij Rebenok then of harm for the first time by moving a bookshelf finally at peace. Snake and Meryl continue on, avoiding a cave before they reach the final path to the hangar. Unfortunately, once there, FOXHOUND long-rang Meryl in the legs and arm to wound her just Snake is then forced to return to the facility's and soon finds one before returning to find for him. Snake and Wolf have a long-range shootout, This turns out to be another ruse, however, as he tries to enter the hangar building. They hold him up, allowing Sniper Wolf to and taken captive. When Snake awakens, he finds himself stripped Liquid Snake then speaks before Snake, referring "Sons of Big Boss" and clarifying that as a means to repair mutations in the genome He then leaves to prepare REX for launch, Ocelot reveals that Meryl is still alive, "trick" Baker referred to that allowed Snake denies any knowledge about this, and Snake withstands the torture and is taken There, Snake finds that he's being kept that it's decomposed far more than it should saw the man die. While in captivity, Snake presses Campbell Metal Gear, and his commanding officer reveals that the news of a new nuclear weapon being leak amid their current proliferation talks. While Snake is upset at being left in the Gear and rescue Meryl. Snake then calls Otacon and asks for his help room. After Ocelot tells Snake his story, including he administers another round of torture. Snake withstands it once more and is taken There, Snake asks Naomi to talk to him to reveals that he killed the only family he her own brother who died (still keeping his Meanwhile, Richard Ames, still observing the communication channel, has a message wired it to be hidden from Campbell. Otacon soon arrives and reveals that while still provide him with something: some food. Otacon gives Snake some ketchup and rations. He then reveals that he's beginning to have to hurt her before he runs off. Snake then uses the ketchup to trick his guard, he is bleeding. When Sasaki enters Snake's cell, Snake escapes He then returns to the torture room and retrieves the launch data Kenneth Baker gave him is On his way back to the Metal Gear hangar, warning him about a bomb placed in his gear, Snake makes his way back towards the hangar, up the nearby communications tower. When he reaches the roof to cross over to halted by Liquid Snake who attacks in his Snake uses a rope to rappel down the side escapes the gunship into the second building. There, he finds Otacon, who offers to fix the roof to confront Liquid, after which he Otacon reveals that the elevator seemingly it down to the underground maintenance tunnel While in the elevator, Snake receives a call tell Snake that four stealth camouflage suits On cue, Snake is ambushed by four invisible which he soon wins. Just before reaching the hangar, Snake is While Otacon pleads with Snake not to kill After Snake emerges successful, he rushes breath that Big Boss rescued her as a child suffering. Before he can, Otacon arrives and tells Wolf She asks for her gun, and once it's returned A grieving Otacon offers Snake his continued As Snake nearly reaches Metal Gear, he is heavy: Vulcan Raven, carrying a massive gatling Despite the man's heavy artillery, Snake chance to tell his story as well. As a reward for his victory, Raven gives Snake DARPA chief he spoke with was Decoy Octopus Snake then walks away from Raven's body, tells him that his spirit will forever be Afterwards, Snake gets a call from Master Campbell, believing Naomi to be off napping, on to reveal that Naomi has been lying about as a spy of the Patriots. Campbell promises This communication with Miller startles Richard a man retired in his cabin in Alaska could Snake finally reaches the hangar and stands He then reaches the control room, where he are aware of Snake's eavesdropping) discussing can strike whenever they want. Liquid then has their target moved from Russia make "Colonel Sergei Gurlukovich" happy, powerful nuclear weapon, was the source of Knowing that once other countries learn of to FOXHOUND to obtain its blueprint, giving obtain their demands, which now include one FOXDIE. With these resources (along with Gurlukovich's into Big Boss's dream: Outer Heaven. Snake soon receives a call from Otacon, who and learned that the PAL override key does temperature. If Snake puts in the card key at three different inputted, it will cancel the launch. Likewise, if the key is put in before the the launch. Either way, the keys can only be used once. Ocelot then shoots the key out of Snake's as he retrieves it. Snake returns to the control room and inserts key to a freezer before returning to insert final sequence remaining, which requires heat. During this time, Richard Ames privately calls Ames reveals that Naomi hadn't been taking by agents of the Patriots, hoping to patch With her reluctance to cooperate, Ames instructs a familiar face will get her to open up. While he initially questions the order, Ames Campbell reluctantly agrees to question her. Now on his way to a furnace, Snake receives connection. Snake obliges, cutting Campbell out of their Miller reveals that a source in the Pentagon weapon, codenamed FOXDIE, and he fills Snake them to determine the only person who could Campbell then calls Snake and confirms his sending a coded transmission and was apprehended. In truth, this is a lie fabricated by Ames true interrogation. After reaching a furnace to transform the receiving another call on his way, this time and retrieved a transmitter. The woman reveals that while she had been her past was true, namely about her brother, the man Snake knew as Gray Fox. Believing Snake killed Gray Fox in Zanzibar two years for this moment. She then explains how FOXDIE works, but reveals She then tries to tell him one last thing, to tell him that she has been removed from to him. While Snake feels double crossed, Campbell Metal Gear and preventing the nuclear strike. As Snake prepares to input the final PAL key, Nastasha was right, the Master Miller Snake Miller, as his body was just discovered by Snake then inserts the PAL key once last time, stating that the launch code has been entered, A surprised Snake is then called by "Miller" as Liquid Snake, explaining the grand ruse entire mission. Liquid then locks Snake inside the control Otacon is able to hack the security to allow Outside, Snake finds Liquid beside Metal Gear true nature behind Snake's mission: to simply parties to kill them so Metal Gear could be changes to the virus before she injected it; to uncover. Liquid then proceeds to finally tell Snake project. Liquid, resentful that his brother not only but also robbed him of his chance at vengeance Instead of killing Big Boss, Liquid settles into Metal Gear REX's cockpit and activates battle. Snake gets a call from Otacon, who informs the only way to stop Liquid would be by destroying to force Liquid to open the cockpit so Snake Using missiles, Snake strikes at the radome, As REX is just about to crush Snake, Gray to stop it, allowing Snake to get to safety. In a moment of vulnerability, Fox admits to love, since it was he who killed her parents. Fox then gives Snake a final gift from "Deepthroat", Fox's arm before pinning him against the Liquid taunts Gray Fox by saying in the Middle with Fox responding that "a cornered fox his last moments to deliver the final blow As Fox lays dying, he tells Snake to fire to do it, knowing the explosion would also Liquid then crushes Fox under Metal Gear's and squadmate. With REX's cockpit open and Liquid exposed, damaging the internals enough to disable the The ensuing explosion blasts Snake into the Liquid then retrieves his brother, ties him Gear REX. He also retrieves the sedated Meryl, placing While Snake is passed out, Liquid speaks directly hear him through the cochlear implant. Liquid warns them that as soon as he's done them as well; a challenge that Richard Ames Snake then awakens and Liquid reiterates his brethren, the genome soldiers, insisting that written into both of their genes. Liquid then goes into more detail about the creation of the genome soldiers and their (that is unless they can crack the code using Liquid then shows Snake the nearby Meryl, one final showdown between the brothers to He also mentions that there's now a ticking of Metal Gear's destruction) now plan to to wipe out all evidence of their classified Snake then calls Campbell, who confirms the command to halt the air strike, which should Richard Ames overhears this and makes the Before Campbell can issue the order, he is Jim Houseman takes command, telling Snake before confirming that the air strike is on Liquid then reveals his own nuclear device, hand-to-hand atop Metal Gear REX. While Snake is unable to simply overpower side of the machine, sending him plunging At this same time, Richard Ames aborts the Houseman's renegade actions, have the Secretary Snake rushes over to Meryl as she awakens, Snake calls Otacon to warn him about the impending Otacon refuses to leave, however, instead hacking skills to get Snake and Meryl past and get to safety. Otacon then leads them to a parking garage a nearby escape tunnel. Snake helps Meryl get down from REX, and after pair are able to commandeer a jeep to escape. After using the mounted gun to fight through when another jeep approaches just behind them, As they reach the exit of the facility, the both overturn in the crash. Snake and Meryl are pinned under their jeep, trained on his brother. Before he can fire, however, he finally succumbs as "Eli" falls dead, leaving a warning to the virus he's carrying as well. Snake and Meryl look up and notice the air Snake to give him the news that it was called Snake informs Campbell of Meryl's safety, so many secrets from Snake, restoring the Campbell has Snake and Meryl officially pronounced to do whatever they'd like with the rest Snake then has somebody sent to retrieve Otacon, they can take to a helicopter for evacuation. The codec call then switches to Naomi, who Snake gives Naomi one last message that her her to move on with her own life instead of Snake tells Naomi that FOXDIE killed Liquid, simply responds that it's up to him, before Snake, telling him to live his life. Snake and Meryl then find the snowmobile as as well as her message to live life without Snake and Meryl then share one more conversation, David, and they ride away from Shadow Moses. Sometime later, Ocelot speaks on the phone Sears: the third, perfect clone of Big Boss, Ocelot informs him that he was able to retrieve keep his cover intact. Ocelot then muses with Solidus that while expressed Big Boss's recessive genes, he while the "inferior" Solid Snake was ultimately Ocelot mentions that it would take a "well-balanced" before ending the call. Right after the events at Shadow Moses, Richard optical discs: one containing the recordings during the mission, as well as one with all including Naomi's modifications (which changed Snake to a random value even she didn't Ames then helps her flee her home, where she about the events entitled In the Darkness goes on to become a best-seller. The U.S. Government subsequently denies any it on a terrorist group. Jim Houseman is then set up to take the fall Patriots staging his "suicide". George Sears/Solidus Snake is also forced for acting against the Patriot's interests. They also attempt to kill him, but he goes their plot. In the wake of the FOXHOUND unit's defection, Ocelot later sells the data from the Metal disappearing, causing countries all over the Gear. He uses the massive amount of sums gained of prison. He also is able to retrieve Liquid Snake's his body to replace his missing hand as well self-hypnotherapy skills along with nanomachines, personality under the guise of "spiritual Solid Snake and Otacon then form "Philanthropy", target and destroy the new Metal Gear REX Nastasha learns of this and donates all of Snake's focus on this plight drives a wedge with one another. Meanwhile, the boy soldier Solidus Snake had the Patriots, who implant him with a series and enhance his abilities. He's then brought into the United States through hundreds of Virtual Reality missions, Snake's missions, including the Shadow Moses This training serves as the basis for the a program in which the Patriots attempt to In 2007, Otacon gets an anonymous tip from (who he believes to be his estranged step-sister Gear that's scheduled for transport on a coincidentally named the USS Discovery, traveling Snake dons a stealth camouflage suit and jumps passes under it, successfully infiltrating When Snake lands, he damages his stealth technology, way to obtain photographic evidence to expose From a helicopter out of Snake's sight, on schedule." As he and Otacon discuss his route to the Marines on board are slaughtered by a squad Snake then spots the perpetrator: Ocelot's Snake then explores the tanker, getting past bridge. There, he spots more heavy reinforcements ship is headed to a location off the coast Metal Gear is ready for solo testing. Snake then spots a woman outside, and heads He eavesdrops on her radio conversation with Olga, and she is currently with child. While Gurlukovich demands that she leave the instead elects to stay and fight with her Snake holds Olga at gunpoint, but she quickly a shootout. Snake takes Olga down nonlethally with tranquilizers, UAV spots him and snaps a photo before flying Snake continues his way to the cargo hold, to finally reach it. As he enters, Ocelot (with two hands once of Gurlukovich's men that evaded Snake's Inside the hold, Snake finally sees the new Marine Commandant Scott Dolph. Snake takes pictures of RAY from multiple a nearby workstation. After Dolph wraps up his speech, Ocelot arrives presentation before telling the Commandant Suddenly, Gurlukovich takes Dolph hostage, with several explosives to "blow it out As Gurlukovich's men prepare to steal Metal will rise again. Ocelot then reveals to his "partner" that but instead to take it back to the Patriots. Dolph then recognizes this name, repeating to the Patriots' censorship nanomachines A betrayed Gurlukovich asks Ocelot if he's simply responds that he and his daughter will Gurlukovich then pushes Dolph towards Ocelot, firing his signature revolver and killing Ocelot then detonates the explosives, and Snake rushes over to Ocelot to try to stop arm begins to twitch, and the man convulses within him. While Ocelot tries to fight this off, Liquid starting to take place. He then jumps into RAY's cockpit and the tanker, knocking Snake unconscious in the Ocelot leaves Snake floating in the water in the Patriots about taking it to an undisclosed He then reveals that the Cypher that took now have evidence that he was on the scene. After the tanker's sinking, Snake survives, They then leave it in the harbor, where it to believe that Solid Snake died in the tanker's The Patriots then launch a massive smear campaign on Solid Snake and Philanthropy, ruining their The Patriots, now possessing Metal Gear RAY then send a tanker containing actual oil to that one at well, building the "Big Shell" spill, using it to cover up the construction for the Patriots to house their AI system, data and military control. Emma Emmerich is then recruited to create Around this time, the Patriots recruit a data keep tabs on their S3 Plan candidate, Jack. After she deliberately adjusts her appearance meet at Federal Hall in New York City and after. While this relationship is initially just to the Patriots, she begins to develop true The Patriots also capture Olga Gurlukovich's child hostage to force Olga to assist Jack Meanwhile, the leader of the Dead Cell group, Leadership is then taken over by his wife, of the Marine Commandant who died on the tanker, Shortly after, they are targeted by the Patriots leading to the group to going rogue. In 2009, two years after the Tanker Incident, Johnson, visits the Big Shell facility. Dead Cell, working with the remains of Gurlukovich's Sons of Liberty", then seize control of including the President and Patriots agent They then demand $30 billion, threatening kill the hostages, but also ignite the oil In actuality, these events are secretly orchestrated replicate the events of the Shadow Moses Incident, in to carry out a rescue mission, believing Commanded by a man known only as the "Colonel" Roy Campbell projected by the Patriots' underwater infiltration. While his initial codename for the mission him into the Shadow Moses replication), he so he isn't mistaken for the Sons of Liberty's Meanwhile, two other groups from SEAL Team Alpha Team who are tasked with rescuing the disposal expert Peter Stillman and tasked Cell. On his way in the facility, Raiden spots several intruder heading up a nearby elevator. This man is none other than the real Solid from his current angle. As Raiden follows, the Colonel calls him to girlfriend Rosemary, much to his protest. Despite his disagreement, Raiden continues which he takes to the surface of the facility, As Raiden explores, the Colonel intercepts the President, but were attacked while trying Raiden tries to head to their last known location, of the team lining a hallway. Inside the neighboring room, the vampire-like finishes off the rest of the team. Raiden enters to investigate, and Vamp nearly 10 suddenly enters and interrupts. Vamp almost kills this man in turn, but he and quickly vanishes. The "Seal Team member", who is actually name "Iroquis Pliskin", keeping his true During their conversation, Pliskin notices design, remarking that the unit had disbanded Bravo Team then sends a distress call that unable to move due to the blood loss from head to their location alone. There, Raiden finds Bravo Team firing at Dead resting at her feet. While the squad fires all their weapons directly their mark, changing course just before they Vamp then arrives and collects the President, railgun at the bridge in front of her, destroying Raiden's path). With the entire mission now resting in his to defuse the explosives around the Big Shell. Raiden soon reaches Stillman's location, expert. Stillman regretfully explains that he was Cell member and explosives master "Fatman", Stillman also tells them that he was brought whose true identity is Hal "Otacon" Emmerich. Stillman decides that the best way to neutralize instead to temporarily freeze the C4 charges Using a sensor to follow the scent of Fatman's the bombs. While Raiden is searching for the explosives, leading the Russian soldiers) speaking about As Raiden confronts her, however, she swiftly Continuing on, Raiden soon gets a codec call who warns him about undetectable claymore This caller, one of Raiden's "fans", a name Raiden instantly recognizes from Shadow to "Mr. X". While Raiden defuses more bombs, Stillman something off about Fatman's MO. His suspicions are correct, as Plisken finds struts. Raiden and Plisken then finish freezing the the larger bomb. After Raiden and Plisken finish defusing the bomb has begun to count down. Fighting against the clock, Raiden rushes to be on one of the facility's opposite When Raiden finds the second large bomb, he these bombs have a proximity sensor, and he's The bomb by Stillman then explodes, killing of the Big Shell, flooding various parts of Raiden then rushes to freeze the second bomb it from a distance in order to successfully With the bomb threat neutralized for now, the President. On his way back, he is met by Fortune, who while he is unable to hit her with any of After a short time, Raiden gets a call from them, claiming to have planted a bomb on the Raiden withstands Fortune's onslaught, and rogue explosives work. As Fortune turns to leave, Raiden fires a it hits her, landing directly in Vamp's Fortune rushes to Vamp and holds him, lamenting unable to give her the death she's felt Raiden uses this distraction to escape, leaving However, suddenly, his eyes open, and Vamp once already", therefore he cannot die again. Raiden then reaches the helipad and finds Afterwards, Fatman himself then skates up to become the most famous bomber of all time, ransom. Fatman then plants more bombs, forcing Raiden to take him down. After Raiden defeats him in battle, Fatman biggest of all, before dying from his wounds. Raiden then discovers the bomb, hidden underneath Big Shell's bomb threat to an end. As Raiden heads to search for the President Olga spoke about seeing earlier. The Cyborg Ninja reveals themselves to be and, claiming to be a messenger from the " La-li-lu-le-lo", Ames, who should be able to lead him to the Mr. X gives Raiden a security card to get the hostages, as well as a disguise to blend Mr. X then reveals that Dead Cell has access developed under Big Shell, something Mr. X Mr. X then gives Raiden a cell phone before With no other leads, Raiden follows Mr. X's and reaching the hostage holding area. There, Raiden uses a directional microphone A nearby Ocelot observes as Ames tells Raiden just like him, much to Raiden's confusion. Ames then switches to communication through before telling Raiden the President's location, him, as his biometric data is the key to activating Ames begins to reveal to Raiden that the oil but is interrupted when the pair spot Ocelot "Snake". Raiden uses his directional microphone to agreed to cooperate with the terrorists, and "Outer Heaven" only a few steps away. Olga arrives and argues with Ocelot about suspects to be at his hand) before leaving he's off to take care of the intruder. Ames and Raiden continue their conversation, about any ransom, revealing that the terrorists' above Manhatten, creating an electromanetic it and turn it into a new republic, hence Ocelot then arrives and confronts Ames, revealing Patriots, as well as his true reason for being who they knew would betray them. Ocelot then pulls his weapon on Ames, but dead before them, seemingly of a heart attack off his pacemaker through nanomachines in Ocelot then confronts Raiden, having his mask Suddenly, Mr. X jumps in between them and giving him a chance to escape. Hoping to get more information, Raiden heads him by Ames. On his way, Raiden gets a call from Plisken, with the help of his partner, who he introduces recognizes from Shadow Moses. Snake and Otacon soon arrive at Raiden's is confronted by the man claiming to be Solid from where. Plisken then shouts that the man is not the Raiden that Plisken is truly his "brother", Snake opens fire, causing the man, who is off the Big Shell, where he lands on a Harrier Solidus shouts that "the world needs only Snake then throws Raiden a Stinger missile Harrier to protect their chopper. Raiden does so, damaging Solidus's aircraft in the process. Before the Harrier can hit the water, however, catches it in its mouth, firing explosives Shell and Snake's chopper, forcing it to Solidus then exclaims that they "got [his] and runs along the water just before RAY submerges After the excitement dies down, Snake finally him in on his history, the events of the tanker After this call, Campbell instructs Raiden the "simulation". Raiden continues to the President's location, once again, learning that the woman blames hoping to get her revenge now that he is on She then has the floor outside the room the to use a remote controlled missile to disable Once the path is safe, Raiden enters the room Initially, Johnson believes Raiden to be a for his betrayal, but after discovering that him over nanomachines. Johnson reveals that he agreed to work with of being simply a figurehead for the Patriots. Raiden is unfamiliar with the Patriots, and their absolute control over the country. Johnson intended to use the new Metal Gear to allow him to join their ranks, but he underestimated head-on, by hijacking their new Metal Gear: Big Shell. Johnson then reveals that since he input the will begin to establish connections with other of Arsenal Gear. He tasks Raiden with finding Emma Emmerich, it. Johnson gives Raiden her location, a security virus (created by Emma as a failsafe modeled system to disrupt its control functions. With all of his information passed on, Johnson to his own head, telling him to kill him so Arsenal Gear's nuclear strike. Raiden refuses, but while they wrestle over Raiden turns to spot Revolver Ocelot, who walks off. Johnson then sends his last order as Commander-in-Chief After a quick discussion with Snake and Otacon is helping Solidus while seemingly working two years prior, Raiden makes his way through On his way, however, he is once again met pools of water, who reveals that while the launching their nuke, Arsenal Gear still houses which Solidus is currently unaware of. Arsenal Gear passes its final preparations reaching Emma. The two battle, with Vamp eventually sinking nothing but a bloody cloud in his wake. Raiden reaches Emma and rescues her, but the still having a fear of water from nearly drowning Raiden is able to convince her to hold on way. After swimming for a while, the pair manage area to take a breather. There, the pair talk about Emma's childhood, She states that GW is only part of the data spread massively by the Patriots alongside prevented computers from failing at the turn She then reveals that the GW program wasn't factors for judging situations, which the experiment in the next few days that would The pair continue towards the computer room In order to reach it, they're forced to Emma makes her way across, while Raiden and Just as Emma is about to reach the other side, again and grabs her, holding her at knife Raiden fires directly at Vamp's forehead, As he falls, however, his knife slashes at Snake rushes over and carries Emma to the them with the disc. When he arrives, he finds Otacon grieving prepared the system for the virus's upload. Raiden inserts the disc, but the upload process Emma awakens, and she finally makes amends loss. Otacon then takes Emma's pet parrot as they launch. Otacon is tasked with getting as many hostages and Raiden decide to infiltrate Arsenal Gear stopped by the virus (or themselves if need The trio leave Emma's body behind, and Snake parting ways. At the door to Arsenal Gear, Snake calls upon before holding their high-frequency blade Raiden then asks Snake if he's changing recall saying [he] was on [his]". Mr. X then reveals themself to have been Olga hits Raiden with the blade's electronics, Outside, Otacon flies away in the helicopter into the depths. Raiden later awakens and finds himself naked, Ocelot. Solidus, now donning a familiar eye-patch mechanical "Snake Arms", reveals that past together. Raiden's years with the Patriots erased in-between torturing him with his Snake Arms. Solidus then leaves to prepare Arsenal Gear, the man, holding up the virus disc before Olga secretly communicates with Raiden, informing him, with her position as leader of the Russian Olga tells Raiden about the Patriots holding that Snake wasn't responsible for her father's Olga tells Raiden that she'll free him so then leaves the room. Now alone, Rosemary calls him, and Raiden revealing the evils of his past, stating that have a family, he can't do that. Olga then releases Raiden's restraints, As he sneaks his way through Arsenal Gear's who begins to speak a bit erratically. Raiden then realizes that he's never actually to by warning Raiden that "they" have As Raiden continues, the Colonel begins to to Emma's virus finally taking hold. Rosemary also calls Jack, making her own admission but promising that her current feelings for She then tells Raiden that she's carrying Raiden finally regroups with Snake, now out sneaking suit, who returns Raiden's gear. After Raiden gets dressed, he and Snake discuss him as bait to gain access to Arsenal Gear. Snake reveals that according to Olga, there Metal Gear RAYs onboard for protection, which Stinger missiles. He then gives Raiden a gift from Olga: her The pair continue on, and Otacon determines with was actually GW stimulating Raiden's Campbell to be like. While Raiden begins to question his own reality, ambushed by a large group of heavily armored off as more effects of the virus are seen. After the battle, Fortune arrives and confronts during the tanker incident. While Snake states that he didn't kill her her, allowing Raiden to continue on. Raiden climbs a nearby ladder and reaches of an unseen Solidus. Solidus tells Raiden that Ocelot discovered of the S3 Plan, revealing to him that he's Snake Simulation" this entire time. Solidus finally reveals himself, stating that alive. The fleet of Metal Gear RAYs then arrive and own, using Snake's stockpile of Stinger After taking down a number of them, Raiden Just as one of the RAYs prepares to stomp cyborg ninja did before her, and the Metal Raiden warns Olga about blowing her cover, can to keep him alive, as if the Patriots her child as well. Solidus then appears on the platform again Snake Arms, pulling out his P90 submachine Olga then turns to Raiden and pleads with into her skull, instantly killing her before Solidus then activates the remaining Metal Ocelot then reports that the GW AI is going virus, and Arsenal Gear is on an emergency Solidus is then forced to take down the remaining Afterwards, he takes Raiden captive as Fortune Solidus then chokes Raiden until he falls Later, Solidus wakes Raiden up to inform him Atop the giant Arsenal Gear, Solidus then answers, but not from Raiden. Fortune then walks away, and Solidus confronts which she's shocked to learn he's aware Solidus then reveals that he suggested that even care about controlling the weapon. Solidus then reveals his true objective all the Patriots wanted to use GW to censor. More specifically, Solidus wanted to retrieve twelve members of the Patriots from GW, the With GW destroyed, Solidus simply states that information. Fortune walks off, planning to seize control bomb to enact the EMP to evoke chaos among begins to laugh at the "cherade". Solidus asks what he means, and the man reveals "meat" of the S3 Plan as Solidus thought. Ocelot finally reveals that the entire Big to replicate the events of Shadow Moses in with Solid Snake. Emma's virus, as it turns out, was designed from GW. Ocelot then states that with all of the data able to create the perfect simulation to turn Ocelot finally turns to Fortune, and tells were both just part of the Patriots' plan. In anger, she lifts her railgun and prepares shoots first, surprisingly hitting the woman Ocelot tells Fortune that her "luck" never electromagnetic weapons technology developed Fortune lifts her railgun again and tries is protected by the same technology that once Solidus tries to fire himself, but reaches jump into the prototype Metal Gear RAY, firing the bullets with his own pair of high-frequency As Ocelot switches the RAY to use its missiles, Inexplicably, all of the missiles change course atop Arsenal Gear. With her last bit of luck used, Fortune dies Ocelot then opens RAYs mouth for a final blast to convulse again. To Ocelot's dismay, the "spirit" of Liquid then informs his "brothers" that Arsenal Gear that got Snake involved in the awaken him like it did during the tanker incident. Now awakened and with all of the information that he can now destroy the Patriots for good. He then hops back into the cockpit of the waters, leaving Arsenal Gear on a crash course Solid Snake is able to break free of his handcuffs and Raiden alone. Arsenal Gear crashes through Manhattan, finally and Raiden land on the roof. Solidus gives his former "son" one final since he is unable to reproduce, he has always The Patriots threatened this with their plan desire to liberate the world from the group. Raiden then gets another call from the "Colonel" that GW's destruction would have destroyed The Colonel, as well as another AI of Rosemary, the rest of the Patriots AI system is still of not censoring information, but rather choosing generations to ensure society evolves and The AI then reveals that the true purpose S3's crisis management capacity to ensure for any future contingencies. As his final mission, Raiden is forced to both Rosemary and Olga's child will die. Before their final battle, Solidus reveals all those years ago. Solidus then tosses Raiden Olga's blade, in order to extract any leftover information The pair then battle in a close-quarters sword former "father". Solidus then falls from the roof of Federal with his final breaths before falling comatose. Raiden climbs down himself and looks towards is. Snake then arrives and answers him, telling matter, but rather whatever it is he decides pass on to further generations. Snake then promises to find Olga's child Snake then reveals that he gave Raiden a fake real copy has been in his possession since. He and Otacon intend to reverse-engineer it Committee that Solidus intended to find. Raiden tries to follow Snake, but he tells do and people to talk to. During this conversation, a figure resembling Raiden then spots Rosemary and rushes over before catching a glimpse of Emma's parrot Raiden then speaks with Rosemary, and the together, and pass that along to their future Sometime later, Otacon is able to extract identities of the twelve most powerful members Otacon and Snake are shocked to learn, however, years ago, leaving their trail cold once more. In the wake of Arsenal Gear's crash into revolutionize the way war is not only fought, After developing a system with ArmsTech called AI, namely the central core named "JD", including the weapons market, by directly nanomachines (which has become standard practice). As a failsafe, they make the "keys" to biometric data. This new system brings about the "war economy", essentially treat warfare as a commodity, This also produces the need for more and more the battlefield with soldiers. Ocelot then removes Liquid's arm, having to undo some of the damage he did to his mind. This effort proves futile, as Liquid's personality the name "Liquid Ocelot" moving forward. Liquid Ocelot then spends the next few years by buying up the five largest PMCs and controlling calls "Outer Heaven". When the Patriots finish their second iteration attempted with Arsenal Gear, Liquid Ocelot Haven". Using its experimental OctoCamo surface replication Outer Haven at the abandoned Shadow Moses the Patriot's GW artificial intelligence, room inside the ship. At some point, Raiden, unable to live with leaves Rose. He is then contacted by Big Mama, who had of Big Boss's body from the GW AI. In exchange for the location, Big Mama, along Lost Army", help Raiden rescue Olga's her at Area 51. Raiden then leaves the girl, Sunny, with Snake Raiden also learns that Rose had not only Roy Campbell, sending him into a downward He returns to the Paradise Lost Army and decides from the Patriots, but is captured during While in their captivity, the Patriots use exoskeleton technology, grafting his head more machine than man. The Paradise Lost Army are able to rescue control of the Patriots due to the nanomachines They find Dr. Drago Pettrovich Madnar (the as the Metal Gear D for Big Boss at Outer he is able to save Raiden's life by removing After recovering, Raiden succeeds in retrieving a life of self-imposed exile in the shadows Big Mama and the Paradise Lost Army also recover body, as well as what remains of Liquid Snake's Using most of Solidus's body along with of the injuries he sustained at the hands However, due to the Patriots' control through Big Mama then keeps Solidus's head and chest to recover Big Boss's stolen remains. During this time, Solid Snake's advanced Enfants Terribles project ramps up, and his He and Otacon then obtain a large transport use as their home and mobile command center, his wing as a programmer. One day, in 2014, Solid Snake visits the grave interrupted by an arriving helicopter, which Otacon brings Snake back to the helicopter, took to try to figure out the biological cause year left of life at its current rate, or In the helicopter, Snake is met by his old finally uncovered the location of Liquid Ocelot: The three then head to the Nomad and discuss Sunny prepares eggs for them and tries to offer. Meanwhile, Otacon puts the finishing touches to aid Snake on the battlefield. Campbell warns Snake that if Liquid and his from executing his planned insurrection, he'll faced. Campbell then asks Snake to meet with his Forces: Rat Patrol Team 01 to find and assassinate Snake agrees and deploys to the Middle East Traveling through the warzone to meet with bipedal fighting machines called "Gekko", to stay out of sight. Soon, Otacon sends in his Metal Gear Mk. II of his: the Solid Eye, an eye patch-like goggle and other battle data. Continuing on, Snake soon meets a member of "Drebin", denoted as Drebin 893, as well This Drebin and his group replace the ID chips of their nanomachines. In order for Snake to use these weapons, however, to suppress his old ones. While Snake is initially skeptical, given him with nanomachines, he agrees and takes weapons. Snake eventually finds Rat Patrol Team 01, Likewise, Meryl doesn't recognize Snake aging. Snake meets the other team members, including out at Shadow Moses: Johnny Sasaki, now going Meryl gives Snake the information she's now traveling with Naomi Hunter at his side. Snake and Meryl then catch up, and after learning she angrily tells him about her falling out him being her real father as well as his marriage Suddenly, Liquid's private troops, the "Haven catch the reflection off Akiba's scope lens Snake and Rat Patrol then fight off the advanced their separate ways. Snake continues towards Liquid's location, Liquid Ocelot's "Beauty and the Beast experiences that through the use of nanomachines driven killing machines on the hunt for Solid After watching the unit take out an entire area before proceeding. Snake soon finds Liquid Ocelot at a PMC camp, Liquid makes a command to "activate it" to collapse, overcome by physical and emotional normal). Snake fights through the influence and confronts to find the strength to shoot at Liquid during Liquid walks off, and Naomi appears before telling him to go "fulfill [his] destiny" Liquid and Naomi then leave together on a follow. Snake then loses consciousness as Akiba carries Snake later awakens aboard the Nomad, where a video message from Naomi. In it, she tells them that Liquid has her forced to research the SOP System to find every soldier through their nanomachines. She then ends the message by asking Snake with the video. On his way to Liquid's facility, Snake speaks which they conclude must be the Patriots' actually are. They then determine that Liquid's insurrection under control, things will be no better. The pair then surmise that the best possible System, and Liquid Ocelot. Snake finds Liquid's safehouse, but finds One of the Beauty and the Beast Unit, Laughing the rebels before Snake spots someone working Vamp. Laughing Octopus then disguises her face as of rebels in the area before Vamp stops her face of the man "who killed [his] comrades". After Vamp and Laughing Octopus leave together, images studied by Mei Ling to search for the During his search, Campbell calls Snake and who also provides combat support via codec. Snake then finds Drebin once again, who tracked in him in the Middle East. Drebin fills Snake in on the backstory of of their obsession with killing him. Snake suspects that by being able to hack Patriots, but he clears Snake's suspicion without it being censored into "La-li-lu-le-lo". Drebin then explains to Snake how the Patriots, since evolved into a governing group of AIs. Snake continues his search for Naomi, getting learn is from Raiden, who tells him about Big Mama. Snake then finds Naomi's lab, where he finally The pair then discuss Naomi's situation, mental suppression, revealing that in the momentarily, setting all of the soldiers' them. Before leaving, Naomi elects to give Snake After he undresses, Naomi is also overwhelmed advanced aging. She then finally informs him of his shortened Enfants Terribles project, revealing that Naomi then tells him that the FOXDIE virus on specific genetic code has begun mutating it will begin to kill indiscriminately, turning She states that the only way to prevent the host. Finally, Naomi shows him a new strain of FOXDIE injected into him recently, and he immediately Naomi then gives Snake a drug to inhibit the Naomi tells Snake about Liquid's plan to calls "Guns of the Patriots", and agrees her. Before he can, however, Naomi begins to feel her computer to grab something before a squad A team of FROGS then burst in, and Snake is Octopus. After a lengthy game of cat and mouse, Snake the Beauty, incapacitating her before taking Snake exits and finds Naomi's trail, following the doctor in. Snake fires a bullet at Vamp, hitting him the man, simply knocking him down. Liquid's PMC operatives open fire on Snake, once again, causing them to collapse. Snake injects himself with the drug Naomi to save her. Suddenly, Drebin arrives in his armored vehicle, helicopter . Snake jumps in as well, and the As they try to reach Otacon for transport, on a Gekko infested road. Snake looks up to a nearby roof and spots cybernetically transformed Raiden. Snake and Naomi then run off as Raiden single-handedly blade and enhanced abilities. Snake and Naomi are able to reach Otacon's being restrained by a group of Gekko before Vamp then stabs Raiden, who bleeds artificial and free him. Raiden and Vamp then have a quick battle, As more Gekko arrive, Raiden jumps to the passing out from his injuries shortly after. Below, Vamp calls Liquid Ocelot and informs states that it's "all part of the plan". Evidently, Liquid had used the blood collected DNA to unlock the SOP System, but learned genetic code of Big Boss. He then works to find the hiding place of his remains. In the helicopter, Naomi nurses Raiden's As it turns out, he was never immortal, but body that cause him to heal at an accelerated Raiden begins to lose consciousness due to able to deliver a final message to Snake: Back aboard the Nomad, Naomi helps Sunny with her mother while the pair bond. Afterwards, Naomi tracks Liquid down to Eastern of Big Boss in order to unlock SOP. Snake and Otacon wonder how Liquid could use system while he's dead, and Naomi finally lives, just barely, in a lab. Raiden then awakens and confirms that the Madnar, whose equipment can save his life. The Nomad then sets course to find both. During the flight, Otacon and Naomi speak love for science. The pair also share regret for what they've Naomi takes a USB drive off her necklace and her about Sunny's advanced skills as a programmer, Naomi then seduces Otacon, and the pair sleep the Nomad. Snake later arrives in Eastern Europe and Lost Army, disguising himself using Laughing like his younger self. Snake soon reaches a PMC security checkpoint, ushered away by an arriving Meryl, who happened The two then have a brief discussion about by force; an idea Snake finds crazy considering SOP. The pair are unable to find common ground, Liquid first. Snake finds a member of the local resistance As the man enters, Snake holds him hostage Snake then single-handedly takes out all of enters the nave, where he finds a very impressed Big Mama introduces herself as Snake's mother, Terribles project. Big Mama then proceeds to inform Snake about Patriots, Big Boss's eternal battle with at Outer Heaven and Zanzibar Land), as well Patriots Para-Medic and Sigint. Big Mama further explains the Patriots AI AL, and TR, governed by one core AI: JD, or This system is locked behind Big Boss's friend alive but with his consciousness trapped Big Mama then takes Snake to a van and shows the fact that it's truly Solidus. Snake then gets a call from Otacon, who tells Dr. Madnar's place with the dialysis machine The pair then fear that she has returned to Just then, a figure in a trenchcoat and hat guards confronts the figure, it's revealed with arms called "Dwarf Gekko". Big Mama fights them off, and the group are Big Mama mounts her motorcycle with Snake, the van with Big Boss inside. After protecting the van from an onslaught fired from one of the Beauty and the Beast This sends the van crashing through a nearby off of her bike. Snake gets Big Mama to safety inside a nearby to take on Raging Raven. Again, Snake defeats the woman's "Beast" her and taking her grenade launcher. Afterwards, Snake returns to Big Mama, who a decoy. The real body is currently floating down the so they can reach safety along with it. After reaching the riverside, Snake is shocked Big Mama then sees the boat that was carrying river. On Liquid's boat, Snake spots Vamp and Naomi, body, giving him the final key to unlock the Snake tries to stop Liquid, but is quickly Liquid then reveals to Snake that he has recovered it, he plans to destroy the JD AI with a nuclear entire AI system and rebuild the world in Liquid then boards his ship and it embarks, and Marines, led by Meryl and Rat Patrol. Snake and Big Mama board Rat Patrol's ship, Now surrounded, Liquid simply points his fingers, DNA (which he believed to be Big Boss's, to take full control of the SOP System. First, he disables all of the soldiers in the nanomachine controlled soldiers to collapse, soldiers in the area. Liquid then fires a missile at Rat Patrol's Akiba (still unaffected by the nanomachine With the Rat Patrol ship now aflame, Vamp ship, where it lands in the flames. Big Mama then watches the body burn, and in dives into the flames in an attempt to save Liquid then fires his weapon at the body, burning the entire left side of Snake's As Liquid's ship escapes, Otacon is able stow it on board. After the mayhem, Rat Patrol is able to wash Akiba removes his balaclava and gives her She then thanks him with a kiss, and the pair call him "Johnny". Nearby, Big Mama gives Snake a final message before dying in his arms from her wounds. Returning to the Nomad, Snake and Otacon watch of Liquid planning his next move: returning REX, which can still launch a nuclear warhead Vamp noticed the device and destroyed it, III for Snake's further missions. Campbell then calls and reveals that under shut down, creating the first universal cease-fire The group then determines that Liquid's control over weapons of mass destruction. In order to disable the JD AI, Liquid would in orbit, by launching a nuke using REX. Snake decides to return to the place he first Raiden, still recovering from his past injuries for, offers to help Snake. However, as he tries to stand to state his him alone, to which the old man replies that They then get a call from Mei Ling, who confirms which hasn't been touched since the incident warheads still there for Liquid's taking. Mei Ling then offers her help from the Battleship officer of. Otacon then flies Snake to Shadow Moses Island, visit all those years ago, before awakening Snake sneaks past some Gekko to reach the Living through his old memories, he retraces old lab so he can disable security. While Otacon hacks the security system through III, he finds a recent surveillance video Otacon then unlocks the way, and Snake heads On his way, Snake is forced into another sniper Beauty and the Beast Unit member Crying Wolf. After yet another battle with the Beauty and her Railgun before continuing on. Snake soon reaches the door to REX's hangar, the exact spot he fought his brother atop However, they do notice one change: REX's only it to launch the nuke, not the entire As Snake investigates, he's interrupted been taken out of the facility. Naomi then arrives alongside Vamp, and he Otacon then remotely uses the Metal Gear Mk. III to try to take control of REX to help Snake tries to take down Vamp, but the near-immortal to take down. Snake has a trick up his sleeve, however, with the nanomachine-suppressing drug given With Vamp now "mortal", Snake prepares of Gekko who burst in. Luckily, a recovered Raiden arrives to fight with Snake fending off the Gekko while Raiden After a grueling battle on both men's ends, delivering a mortal sword slash to Vamp, echoing Hall. Otacon activates REX and kills the remaining Vamp's fate. Naomi then arrives, and Raiden delivers a she "cooked them right". Naomi lets out a tear and hands a vial of Mk. III, allowing Otacon to remotely take revenge Vamp denies him this chance, however, and his own neck and finally allowing his own Naomi then tells Snake that Liquid is down Outer Haven. She then atones for all that she's done revealing that she has terminal cancer, with Naomi then says her goodbyes to Otacon and before falling dead in the same spot her brother As more Gekko arrive, Snake enters REX's the massive mechanical beast to blast their Moses facility. Raiden jumps off as Snake emerges outside, buried under the rubble. Snake doesn't have time to react to this, sight: Liquid emerging from the waters piloting tanker seven years prior. Snake is then forced to pilot REX in a battle While RAY was designed to destroy REX, Snake Metal Gear RAY for good. As Liquid crawls out from the wreckage, he as Liquid replies "...Die", echoing their Shadow Moses. Liquid then falls limp... but after a few jovially running off. Snake tries to follow, but is unable to catch battle. Outer Haven then emerges from the waters, Rushmore"-like facsimile of Big Boss and Liquid then jumps aboard and aims his ship Meanwhile, Raiden watches on, his right arm With no other choice, he grabs his blade and Just as Outer Haven reaches Snake, Raiden his enhanced strength. Snake is able to get to safety thanks to Raiden's remembers the day they met as he's crushed Mei Ling then arrives in the USS Missouri who submerges his ship and escapes. Snake then looks into the waters, seeing only Snake then collapses, where he and Raiden taken onboard the USS Missouri. Sometime later, Snake, Otacon, Mei Ling, Meryl, moves to stop Liquid from using REX's railgun Mei Ling determines that since Liquid controls stop the nuke is by infiltrating Outer Haven Mei Ling and Otacon then reveal that before destroy GW; including a worm cluster virus Sunny with completing called "FOXALIVE", server that is protected by a hall of microwaves Seeing this as a suicide mission, Snake figures Snake prepares to infiltrate Outer Haven with along the way, who provides all of the Missouri's fight despite Liquid's control of SOP. Meryl then finally hears from Campbell, who Suddenly, Outer Haven's exterior opens, III), Meryl, and Johnny prepare to board the As Liquid's warship retaliates (including with the Missouri. The trio make a jump onto Outer Haven, but his landing and falls into the waters, while Snake. Forced to continue alone, Snake fights through an elevator he uses to reach the interior Snake finds himself inside a large, circular Meryl. Suddenly, a squad of FROGS advance, and Snake Afterwards, Meryl awakens, but is suddenly like a marionette by the final member of the Controlling both Meryl and Snake as well as Mantis engages Snake in a battle of wits. Snake uses the nanomachine-suppressing drug it on Meryl as well. During the battle, Snake notices that Mantis's and Psycho Mantis that she holds, and he takes her Beauty and Beast forms. Afterwards, Screaming Mantis's suit reassembles of Psycho Mantis. After demonstrating his skills like he did out, sending Psycho Mantis back to the land Snake then looks up and witnesses another that "the spirit of the warrior" will FROG reinforcements arrive, and Snake is forced Meryl says her goodbyes to him before she As Snake continues on, Meryl is joined by He then reveals to her that he doesn't have Liquid's SOP control never affected him. Finally, Johnny reveals to Meryl that he has marriage, to which she agrees to, in her own fighting. Snake is soon ambushed and outnumbered by armless Raiden. Weidling his blade in his mouth, Raiden fights Snake reaches the microwave hallway and enters. As he crawls through, the powerful waves destroy him physically. As things begin to look dire for Mei Ling, with all of his might to reach the end of While it nearly kills him, Snake is able to III, which they find to be adorned like a Otacon then controls Metal Gear Mk. III and begins to upload the virus, while Luckily, the virus is uploaded just in time, army and disabling the Metal Gear RAYs attacking Suddenly, a video transmission emerges from In the video recording, she explains that GW, but the Patriots' entire network, bringing systems, as well as the war economy. She then reveals that the Patriots had planned not just the battlefield, and she developed everyone free from the Patriots' control. Naomi then ends her message by apologizing Snake to move on and live the restful life Snake then passes out but is found and brought As Otacon goes to find help, Liquid Ocelot brings him up to the top of a tall tower. There, he wakes Snake and reveals that destroying along. With the world free of the Patriots' control, has been realized. Liquid then states that while the war is over, They then fight hand-to-hand atop Outer Haven, As the fight rages on, Ocelot's own personality beats the self-hypnosis out of him. Once the battle is over and Ocelot's true is "Liquid's doppelganger", before giving words: "you're pretty good," before With another remnant of the Patriots gone in a helicopter. Otacon then reveals that while Sunny's virus intact various technological infrastructures Otacon is then left pondering if they made helicopter. Sometime later, the Nomad lands at an airfield of Meryl and Johnny. Before the ceremony, Campbell meets with Meryl walks his daughter down the aisle, where she Drebin then pulls up to celebrate with flowers to nanomachines no longer inhibiting their Notably absent from the celebration is Snake, Drebin then speaks with Otacon, revealing Snake from the very beginning, as they had He further illustrates this point showing anagram of "PatR10t", displaying how deep They didn't realize, however, that this end. Sunny then gives Metal Gear Mk. III to a boy she meets to celebrate her first to her life aboard the Nomad with Otacon. Elsewhere, Raiden recovers in a hospital bed to make him appear more human. As he awakens, Rosemary enters with their Rose reveals that her "miscarriage" and protect them from the Patriots, apologizing The three then share an embrace, ready to Snake returns to Big Boss's grave and prepares new FOXDIE strain from the world before it He then pulls out his pistol, ensures it's the weapon in his own mouth. Shortly after, a gunshot rings out. As it turns out, however, Snake had pulled He's then confronted by the real, living on. Spotting the Boss's machine gun, "the him at gunpoint. Big Boss simply drops his weapon, engages a hug, instructing him to drop his weapon, and finally live. Big Boss fills Snake in on how he's survived, was truly Solidus. Big Boss then reveals that when the virus to learn the location of Zero. He then walks over to show Snake that he had to the cemetery along with him. Big Boss then states that the only way to be to take everything "back to Zero", He then cuts Zero's oxygen supply, and holds to death. Big Boss then makes one final revelation to was a new strain from Zero meant to kill the killer of EVA and Ocelot. He then tells Snake that Big Boss was the kill him for a third time. Big Boss then collapses from the virus now Boss's grave. On their way, Big Boss delivers a message system is preventing the old one from reproducing, else, removing his fear of becoming a threat Once at the Boss's grave, Big Boss uses final time, telling his son to live the rest He then collapses against her grave, and regretfully by their interpretations of the Boss's will, gained freedom. The pair then share a cigar, and Big Boss before he finally dies for good, among a patch Snake is left to simply look upon the legendary Patriots finally snuffed forever. Afterwards, Snake returns to the Nomad and Otacon and Sunny. The girl then finally prepares three eggs, rising again. Following these events, Raiden attempts to work due to the economic recession following He is forced to return to military work, accepting offered to him by a man named Boris Vyacheslavovich as thanks for rescuing Sunny. To help his work, Raiden removes his artificial In 2015, Raiden begins working with a man help rebuild a country in Africa alongside Meanwhile, in the wake of Liquid Ocelot's apart, and the void is filled by the Denver, becomes the new largest PMC. World Marshal is soon brought into scrutiny Steven Armstrong are discovered and subsequently Sunny, who has now taken on the surname "Emmerich" at Solis Space &amp; Aeronautics in Colorado, skill set as well as her father's connections. In the year 2016, a Brazilian mercenary named takes out a drug cartel in his home country with World Marshal. He then decides to assassinate the Senator Sam fights through two police officers using system that he takes to World Marshal's Inside the building's newly remodeled indoor a member of the "Desperado" PMC known Sam's plan, prepare for his arrival. On his way, Sam is attacked by the prototype equipped with a conversational AI. LQ-84i was sent to kill Sam under the command try thinking for itself. LQ-84i considers this, but knows if it disobeys The two then fight, with Sam being able to codec afterwards. Sam then reaches the entrance to the World various forms of security as he makes his Soon, Sam is stopped by Monsoon, who after Metal Gear RAY to take down the intruder. Sam fights off the Metal Gear, destroying invites him upstairs to have the face-to-face When Sam reaches the reception area, Monsoon stating that even if the man took down World in its place, to which Sam responds that he'll up. After fighting through more security forces, him once again and claims that Sam is the seen, asking him to meet on the roof for their On the roof, Sam meets the Senator, who's massive and powerful as he pulls energy from The pair then conduct the "final interview": of their strength and ability. When Sam emerges victorious, Armstrong asks violence and war profiteering. While Sam admits that he may have initially a hand", instead electing to take one of off Armstrong's right forearm with his blade. Armstrong immediately evens the score, using Armstrong then reattaches his own arm before job is his. Sam simply responds with a laugh and reluctantly his damaged arm with a cybernetic. LQ-84i is reconstructed and taken under the woman known as "Mistral". She puts the machine through various AI training his emotions to become a literal killing machine. In 2018, Raiden is traveling in Africa with a limo, and the Prime Minister thanks Raiden in restoring his country back to its former Suddenly, their convoy is halted, and Maverick something is blocking the lead vehicle. This turns out to be Jetstream Sam himself, the lead armored vehicle, slicing up its gunner. As reinforcements rush in, the limo turns calls Maverick's commander, Boris, to tell The limo is soon cornered, forcing Raiden He unsheaths his high-frequency blade and cyborg guardians, codenamed Gemini, take out Suddenly, the coastal waters begin to rumble, RAYs bursts from the depths, firing a massive limo. Gemini attempt to rescue him but are both their leader, known as "Sundowner". Sundowner then pulls the Prime Minister from As he goes to walk off, Sundowner is stopped Prime Minister. Sundowner explains that since SOP's shutdown have been unable to profit. He tells Raiden that he plans to use the Prime running off with him. Raiden tries to follow, but is stopped by fight. Raiden takes it down and follows Sundowner, to block his progress, prompting another grueling it off for good. Raiden catches up to Sundowner and finds him Raiden follows and boards the train, reaching the Prime Minister tied up. Sundowner then chastises the Prime Minister killing the man by impaling him with his large Sundowner then escapes via helicopter, leaving The pair battle atop the train, which enters his eye and severing his left arm. Sam nearly kills Raiden, but the train exits and fire upon him. Sam then also escapes via the chopper, and RPG, it's able to evade the explosive and Raiden is then retrieved from the train, along With the help of Dr. Wilhelm Voigt, known cyborg body Around this time, LQ-84i is ordered to accompany as Khamsin on a coup d'etat mission in the Mistral then takes LQ-84i to Abkhazia, removing it chooses. She begins to warn LQ-84i that she can remove the machine to cut off one of her mechanical giving her this ability away from her. Mistral then informs Desperado that LQ-84i for their forces to destroy it on sight. LQ-84i then fights through the Desperado forces man he was originally supposed to work with, LQ-84i fights this mech, destroying it before attached to its tail. After the battle, Mistral appears before LQ-84i that she simply used LQ-84i to betray and She then forces LQ-84i to "shake" one has "nothing to do with freedom", but her fight. She then leaves, forcing the machine to be Maverick is then hired by the Abkhazian government is partially orchestrated by Desperado), and Reaching the area, he fights through several body enhancements to make quick work of them. With radio support from Boris, Kevin, and is with the terrorist leader, Andrey Dolzaev, towards it. After making his way through an old city filled Under direct order to kill Raiden from Desperado battle. Raiden defeats the machine, and afterwards, Raiden finds amusement in. Raiden reaches the refinery, where he spots him and blows a kiss. Raiden then enters the plant and fights through level. There, he meets Mistral face-to-face, and his, was changed by a man who gave her ideals Raiden asks her who that man was, but she Gekko arms to prompt a battle. The pair fight atop the refinery pipes before slices open a container of liquid nitrogen, her frozen body into pieces, killing her. Afterwards, Raiden tries to get Dolzaev to is exactly where he meant to be. He then pulls out a detonator and triggers destroying the refinery, which was built with free before the blast kills him. With his mission complete, Maverick sends Sometime later, LQ-84i is recovered by Raiden, Continuing their investigation into Desperado, human rights violations and trafficking by Raiden is sent in, wearing a very convincing with Blade Wolf at his side. Raiden follows the sewers to search for a the way. Soon, Raiden comes across a boy in the sewers, and "Raptor" mechs. Afterwards, the boy introduces himself as research lab, where other kids are going to George tells Raiden where the lab is, while up. Raiden sneaks into the lab and finds a room from the children Desperado has been abducting. He then hacks a computer terminal using a video recorded the day before. In the video, Sundowner speaks with a Desperado training regimine that Solidus used on his Sundowner then stresses that they need to quickly, as their cover is about to be blown. Senator Armstrong, who was also on site, then of the brains he has ready, while destroying As he and Sundowner then leave, Armstrong "Tecumseh", which he believes will help Raiden sends the video to Kevin, and asks the suit", who they don't immediately Raiden then goes to rescue the remaining kids, Maverick was unable to find George in the Raiden continues on his search, getting another of the man they saw: Senator Steven Armstrong, in the upcoming 2020 election. Armstrong's ties to World Marshal reveal Raiden plans to take the fight directly to the kids are safe. After fighting through more defenses, Raiden as an "artificial-blood cryopreserver", hours. Doktor then surmises that the scientists must prompting Raiden to hurry in his search. Soon, he finds the children's holding cell the lead scientist he saw on the recording The scientist then pumps the children's kill George if Raiden breaks the glass to George then tells Raiden to forget about him by slashing through the both of them. George is later saved with the use of the children (as well as the cyborg brains) are Knowing Maverick wouldn't agree with attacking Wolf with him to Denver, Colorado. During a drive towards World Marshal HQ, however, on their payroll. After a short pursuit, Raiden's car is destroyed while Blade Wolf scouts ahead. After the battle, Raiden follows Blade Wolf Boris. His former boss tries to talk him out of his the children to suffer the same fate he did. Boris agrees to allow Maverick to secretly rooftops. After traversing the rooftops, the subway, Marshal headquarters. As he arrives, however, he is met with a holographic his motives and actions, chastising Raiden way. Sam then turns off the emotion-suppressing Raiden, forcing him to hear their cries of Blade Wolf arrives and speaks with Raiden before Blade Wolf tells Raiden about his past The pair then finally reach the headquarter's gloating about how he's made Raiden realize Suddenly, Monsoon arrives as well, and expresses not by politics or religion, but by "memes", Raiden regretfully states that he was born as it's reawakened his "Jack the Ripper" to kill Monsoon's backup. Monsoon sends Sam off to report back to "the After their battle, Raiden decapitates Monsoon, Raiden finally enters World Marshal HQ, where telling him the brains are currently in the Doktor traces the call to the top floor, and of service. Blade Wolf hacks the system while Raiden protects Once functional, Raiden uses the elevator to get past a security gate to reach the confidential After unleashing the Ripper and fighting off of the building to quickly get closer to the Raiden passes through the indoor garden reception finally reaching the server room. Before he can enter, however, Raiden is stopped and Monsoon, forcing him to fight them once Afterwards he's finally able to enter the to face. The man explains that the Sears Program was Jack the Ripper, but in order to streamline out of the real world and into Virtual Reality Sundowner and Raiden then discuss the war Patriots didn't invent it, they just took Sundowner then states that none of that will will skyrocket after another event similar Raiden follows Sundowner to a helipad, asking but he brushes it off, simply stating that After Raiden's most exhaustive battle yet, Armstrong is about to launch "Operation Raiden then calls his contacts at Maverick, is likely in Pakistan, where U.S. President Knowing that an assassination of the president on terror", Raiden knows he must get to Raiden then has Boris contact Solis Space Doktor pilots a helicopter to take him there. During their flight, however, they are attacked Raiden exits the helicopter and takes them helicopter, and falls back down to the streets Raiden fights his way out of the city, finding Raiden then finds a motorcycle, and steals As he gets close, however, Raiden stops the being pet by Jetstream Sam. Blade Wolf tells Raiden that he's unable the man tells Raiden that history will decide Raiden brushes this off, caring little for the man. The two then duel on the side of the road, Sam eventually leaves himself open to attack, Sam succumbs to his injuries, laughing and Blade Wolf then tries to discern why Raiden the AI to figure it out for himself. Raiden then grabs Sam's high-frequency blade, Raiden cleans the blood off of it before giving With less than an hour before the President towards Solis. There, they meet with Sunny, who shows them she designed. Raiden and Blade Wolf board the vehicle and less than a half an hour until the President Blade Wolf again heads in first to scout, Raiden decides to destroy the air control but on his way he comes across an injured Raiden looks for his partner's attackers, him. Emerging from the giant hole left in the ground pilot, Senator Steven Armstrong steps out Armstrong tells Raiden that he's too late him that the news of the assassination plans plane around. However, just the news of the attempt was retaliation, successfully lighting the spark Armstrong then states that the Patriots planted are "sons of the Patriots". Knowing that reigniting the war economy will elects to kill Raiden, to prevent him from Armstrong then returns to EXCELSUS, and Raiden Raiden takes it down piece-by-piece, eventually Armstrong emerges from the mechanical beast power from the Metal Gear) elects to fight Raiden is shocked as the Senator easily manhandles During it, Raiden quips that Armstrong is talk. Armstrong then tells Raiden his true intentions: individual controls their own destiny through system of bureaucracy. Raiden takes offense to this notion, as he have to fight to survive as he did. The pair continue to fight atop EXCELSUS, attack. When Raiden asks how the Senator can survive son." Armstrong then beats Raiden senselessly, pulverizing As Armstrong prepares to finish Raiden, Blade Blade Wolf explains that while his initial stored inside him, he learned through working He then tosses Sam's blade to Raiden, which Armstrong kicks Blade Wolf aside, angering him. After another excruciating battle, Raiden finally bringing an end to his master plan. As he dies, however, Armstrong hints that Raiden then rips out his heart and crushes Afterwards, the new war on terror rages on, Maverick at least takes solace in knowing Doktor is also able to establish a cyborg who had their brains removed a chance at semi-normal Meanwhile, George joins Sunny and Blade Wolf new life together. Afterwards, Boris offers Raiden a place at electing to fight his own war moving forward. At some point in the future, Blade Wolf tells the pair discuss Raiden, appreciating his their loyalty to him. And with that, we reach the end of the Metal when series mastermind Hideo Kojima tumultuously 2015. While we may never see another mainline entry without Kojima's involvement in the past, the storylines of those games in release order, sequel to the Nintendo Entertainment System In 1998, three years after the fall of Outer receives intelligence that another hostile Solid Snake is again sent in to investigate two men, John Turner and Nick Myer, in "Operation The three land in the area by helicopter before captured to provide a distraction for Snake Inside, Snake learns that the enemy does in being mass produced and will ship soon. After taking out several defenses, Snake reaches on a cargo ship (which Snake also learns Turner Snake boards the cargo ship just before it He finds no sign of Turner and elects to sink After planting and detonating explosives below he's rescued by helicopter just before the Snake then receives word that the enemy has new revision of Metal Gear, appropriately Snake heads to Myer's last known position, Once he's on board, the train begins to who tells him he's captive on the train When Snake finds the man, however, he discovers a spy. The spy attacks, but Snake easily kills him Snake then gets a call from Myer, who apologizes Snake that the operation is still a "go". Snake then works with the Outer Heaven resistance the enemy group as a double agent, and the When Snake finds Myer, however, the man is Jennifer's cover was blown. He then makes a shocking revelation: the leader Big Boss, who survived his first encounter Myer then dies from his wounds, leaving Snake Snake soon finds Big Boss, now transformed Wanting to avenge his defeat at Snake's Boss attacks. While his enhancements make him a formidable killing his former commander for a second After his victory, Snake finds the captive After she gives him the location of Metal Once in its hangar, Snake uses remote controlled the new weapon. With another Metal Gear destroyed, the UN In the wake of Operation 747, John Turner promoted three ranks. This brings us to the end of "Snake's Next up, the 2000 Gameboy Color game "Metal "Metal Gear Solid"), which is another Gear". In the year 2002, seven years after Operation the retired Solid Snake at his home in Alaska. Campbell asks Snake to come out of retirement the brink of nuclear destruction. A new Metal Gear, codenamed "GANDER", Liberation Front, or GLF, who happen to be once located in South America. Snake agrees to the mission and meets his Steve Gardner, and including analyst Mei Ling, Ronard Lensenbrink (known as "Weasel"). In addition, Snake is to carry out his mission who are already in the area; led by Army Chief Snake infiltrates the GLF fortress, Galuade, that Delta Force had been wiped out during Shortly after entering the stronghold, Snake Chris Jenner, who explains that her team was group "Black Chamber", lead by a man named This prompts a discussion between McBride, mission could have leaked. Following Jenner's suggestion, Snake makes her at a nearby watchtower. Snake finds Jenner, who had disguised herself their next steps. Jenner tells Snake about the chief researcher Snake elects to search for him while she heads plant. While Snake looks for Jimmy, he meets Black battle, with Snake killing the mercenary. Snake continues his search, finding the Metal barracks. Jimmy then gives Snake Metal Gear's location "Project Babel" (led by General Parker) he is unsure as to how. Suddenly, the facility's power cuts out, all of the power for Metal Gear's railgun, which would be ready in about a half an hour. Snake leaves Jimmy behind to be rescued by On the way, he encounters and defeats another before his death tells Snake about Black Chamber's As it turns out, they were originally under during a mission led by someone known only sworn vengeance upon. Snake continues on and finds Metal Gear, now Black Art Viper then confronts Snake from too late. Snake is then powerless to watch Metal Gear Viper flies off, and Snake is left to avoid Snake reaches safety and learns that the warhead testing site in Nevada as a warning from the Their leader, known only as the "General", United States demanding that the U.S. remove sovereignty within 3 hours or else they'll Snake decides to take out the power plant again, and heads towards it. On his way, he contacts Jenner, who reveals Snake then meets another member of Black Chamber, more about their group's history with the Bison then reveals that there's a spy on about his mission. After Pyro Bison burns himself alive, Snake's nonetheless continues on. He destroys the power plant, but the General nuke can be fired without the railgun, putting Snake then heads to Metal Gear's location On his way, Snake is surprised to find Jimmy also from Delta Force. Even more surprisingly, Jimmy states that Chris Jenner, making Snake suspicious of her Snake then asks Jimmy if he can stop Metal an explosive hidden in his handcuffs detonates, Afterwards, Snake talks to his support team, her to be the spy Pyro Bison spoke of. Snake, knowing destroying Metal Gear is more mission. After a squad of F-22 aircrafts clear his is stopped again by a helicopter, which opens Snake takes down the chopper, and its pilot as Sophie N'dram, the General's second-in-command. She holds Snake at gunpoint, but he overpowers Snake doesn't kill Sophie, and they instead Jenner is still alive, and Viper has her captive. Snake continues to Metal Gear, but just as Black Chamber's leader: Black Art Viper. Viper finally gives Black Chamber's full tasked with recovering Metal Gear, which was They were able to successfully destroy this (only referred to as "Anonymous") tasked knowledge of Metal Gear's existence from Most of Black Chamber was killed, leaving Snake killed during his current mission. Viper then reveals the captive Chris Jenner,and related to Project Babel. Viper then engages in battle with Snake, who As Viper falls, he detonates explosives in a hasty exit. Outside, Jenner finally comes clean about She was sent in separately from the other from U.S. Army General John Parker to destroy assassinating GLF's leader, "the General". Snake forgives her for her deception, focusing find a way to escape while he takes down Metal Snake leaves Jenner behind and finally reaches There, he finds the General already piloting Outer Heaven, and the United States, promising him in battle. Snake then battles Metal Gear GANDER, taking Once it's defeated for good, the General As it turns out, Outer Heaven was actually an eye on anti-American forces. However, Big Boss took matters into his own it. Project Babel then rose from the ashes of to become the sole superpower in Africa by This project was the brainchild of U.S. Army The General then gives Snake a disc containing destroy before dying from wounds he sustained Afterwards, Viper appears before Snake, revealing but also that he had been listening to his him realize the true identity of "Anonymous". Viper then reveals that Colonel Campbell was to kill Black Chamber. Campbell then frantically calls Snake, revealing Chamber's spy. Before he can reveal it, however, his feed to be CIA agent Brian McBride. Viper then prepares to launch the nuclear Metal Gear. Viper then explains that Metal Gear was only of seven satellites in orbit armed with nuclear Snake then battles Viper once again to try Ultimately, Snake emerges the victor, successfully for good. Sophie then arrives, having heard everything to build their own country with "real ideals". Snake then spots Chris Jenner, who has arrived Before they leave, Snake gets another call During the call, Weasel reveals that he killed lied to about the mission to terminate Black him since. The group then deduce that National Security and the true mastermind behind both Outer Weasel then reveals that he was also under man planned the entire mission to go exactly Parker and the Army. Weasel then reveals that his final mission the operation, but having grown fond of them, Snake and Jenner then escape in the jeep, take on Parker and Gardner for their deception, done. This concludes the story of "Ghost Babel", Gear Solid Mobile". As the name suggests, this was a mobile exclusive Metal Gear Solid and Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons Shortly after the events on Shadow Moses Island, on the black market. After production facilities begin to spring begin to work to gain intel on these productions. At some point, Otacon gets a tip from a scientist infiltrates it to make contact with them and After sneaking through the facility, Snake Reed, an artificial intelligence specialist Reed asks Snake to meet her in the Security On the way, Otacon calls, beginning to get quite figure out why he doesn't trust her. As Snake nears her location, he is suddenly Dr. Reed then calls Snake, revealing that designed to trick operatives like him. Her "master" then reveals himself as the Metal Gear from the facility. While Snake was trying to rescue "Dr. Reed", to the entire area, allowing the terrorists Snake is able to knock out his guard and escape for Metal Gear. On his way, however, Snake begins to experience warning him that what he's seeing isn't to a "computer game", and even Otacon about some kind of "simulation"). As Snake reaches Metal Gear's hangar, the in a simulation, as his real self was drugged Snake asks who this caller is, and he reveals the simulation to try to help him beat the On top of REX, Snake finds the commander of Snake battles him one-on-one as the simulation his opponent. After the battle, the simulation ends in error, He then overhears two voices discussing the deleted. They then wipe Snake's memory and discuss When one of the voices discusses finding another already one lined up: a man named Jack; revealing run of the S3 Plan that Raiden was later sent Moving on with our bonus coverage, our next card games: Metal Gear AC!D 1 and 2. These two games relate to each other, but the series. With that said, let's get right into the This story begins in the year 2016, when passenger pair of dolls, "sisters" Frances and Elsie. The dolls bring a bomb on board and fill the paralyze all 517 of the passengers, including political figure and Presidential Candidate. The hijackers make one demand: something called hours. The U.S. Government discerns that "Pythagoras" conducted in a lab on Lobito Island in the The U.S. sends a SWAT-based Hostage Rescue all wiped out, save for one member: a woman Roger McCoy, a CIA agent, then convinces legendary to take over the investigation into Pythagoras. Intelligence determines that the Lobito Physics conglomerate enterprises in the world: BEAGLE. Snake is then sent into the lab in search L. Flemming. As Snake reaches Lobito Island, he's shocked team is Alice Hazel, a psychic known widely While Snake is skeptical of her usefulness navigator, remotely viewing the situation As he reaches the research lab, Snake receives frequency, and the man on the other end introduces Snake responds, and Gary asks Snake to rescue Hoping Gary can lead Snake to Flemming, he Meanwhile, on Flight 326, Senator Hach speaks to work up her strength to investigate the As she walks off, the dolls appear before them must be a "kid" he's familiar with. One of the dolls, Frances, then reveals that plane before writing the numbers "1" and As Snake reaches the control office, Roger of the group that took over the lab has been of insurgents opposed to the Moloni Republic. It's believed, however, that they were hired With Alice's direction, Snake finds Gary, "Flemming's Assembly Room", or FAR, quarters to the east. Snake then tells Gary to stay put as he goes Back on the plane, Lena finds the bodies of The two then fear that somebody named "No. on the plane with them. Shortly after, a girl sitting behind them Donnel. One of the Dolls, Elsie, then reveals that into her forehead. Hach is able to get to his phone to make a his contact about his fear of Pythagoras going is handling the situation using Solid Snake. Suddenly, Minette is contacted telepathically on the plane so they can defuse it. Snake reaches the residential area and finds a prisoner: potentially Dr. Flemming. Roger calls Snake to provide him some potential to learn that he doesn't need one; the security as "Hans Davis", a name nobody recognizes. Snake enters the room and finds a man with it, the towering leader of the mercenaries, who hold up Snake. Leone then aims his gun at the prisoner and He then turns his weapon on Snake, but before out Leone's men. Snake uses the distraction to escape, finding outside, who introduces herself as "Swallowtail". She reveals that the prisoner Leone killed taken elsewhere, casting suspicion on Gary. Meanwhile, Minette searches in the plane's to indicate that she might also known who's The dolls then reveal they have control over and they've killed another; this time writing On Lobito Island, Snake reaches the location a call from Roger, who has done some digging As it turns out, Hans Davis was Flemming's years ago. Working for BEAGLE, he was sent to Lobito several children in the region were abducted Gary then calls Snake and reveals his secret: to collect data from another project, called rich. He then states that with the data in his hands, he got his location from Snake, he'll get Gary then makes one final revelation: that walking battle tank; none other than Metal Snake and Teliko are then left to race to On the way, Snake starts to get sporadic headaches, telling "Hans Davis" to wake up. The pair then reach the room where Flemming vent alone to rescue him. When Snake enters the room, he's shocked reveals that "Gary Murray" never actually "Gary" was actually Flemming all along, Snake suddenly has a rush of memories as Hans conducting the "Ritual of Conjuration", with the kidnapped kids, the sole survivor No. 104, was Flemming's favorite for the Flemming cuts Snake's codec communications, explaining that he was hired by BEAGLE to with his reputation. Snake then took on the name "Hans Davis" "Metal Gear KODOQUE". One day, Hans went missing, and Flemming theorizes Solid Snake, creating false memories to forget Snake denies this, but Flemming notes that the term "Neoteny", while others referred or "Puppet Masters". Flemming then reveals that Hans had won their pick, No. 16 was the survivor and Neoteny. Flemming then reveals that No. 16 is behind Constance, is on the plane. Flemming holds on to the Pythagoras research him to continue his Solid Snake "facade" No. 16. Flemming leaves to return to FAR, and Teliko He does drop the disk with the research data, Teliko takes the disk, and while Snake is with him. Snake's communications are restored, and soldiers are congregating. Roger then gets a call from Charles Schmeiser, the numbers being carved into the murdered word "SNAKE". Charles then wonders why Roger recruited Snake him might be involved. Charles then entrusts Roger with exposing only chance. Roger confronts Snake about how the hijacker Teliko, trusting in Snake, vouches for him, are ambushed by Leone. Leone reveals that he's been working towards As a former American soldier, original name Hoping to gain Pythagoras, Leone plans to United States. Snake and Teliko fight Leone just long enough him. On Flight 326, Minette and Alice continue from being passed out to find Lena missing. Snake and Teliko head towards FAR to find After they get it in place, however, Teliko She fires, forcing him to dodge, and she crosses his path. She then reveals that she's not Teliko, Teliko Snake has known all this time was simply Snake follows this impostor to stop her from On the way, Roger learns that this must be and hypnotism named "La Clown". Snake continues on and is met by a doppelganger as him. This doppelganger introduces himself as "Hans", out of Snake's subconscious. Snake calls Roger to ask if he sees multiple states that he only sees Snake (and one of Hans takes his leave to go meet with Flemming doppelganger disappears. Snake finds Clown in a room arranged like There, Snake meets the real Teliko for the When Snake wins, this Teliko proves her identity of her would know: her father, Collin, was six seachers": consisting of Bob, Edward, With her identity no longer under question, On the plane, Alice remotely finds the bomb the pair begin to work to figure out how to Meanwhile, Viggo awakens once again, this He asks her where she disappeared to, and to explore the plane but collapsed on the Snake and the real Teliko continue on, and Leone reveals to Snake that his unit had been turned his troops into zombies who now only Snake determines that the Neoteny must be Leone agrees to help Snake and Teliko get down BEAGLE. Snake and Teliko then head towards the power Snake and Teliko reach the control terminals power as Leone reaches FAR and gets ready As they execute the plan, however, ACUA Troops arrives, revealing that he changed the security to keep his daughter Constance safe. On the plane, Viggo and Lena speak again, and worked under a man named "Emilio" Lobito Island. Alice leads Snake and Teliko to a system of Snake gets a call from someone who introduces once he reaches the core of FAR, Hans Davis Another caller then interrupts, No. 16, who Flight 326. The two then argue and threaten each other Back on the plane, Viggo finally realizes She had been simply pretending to be paralyzed, voices with a microphone. Meanwhile, Alice and Minette continue to disarm As the pair discuss, Minette deduces that tries to convince her to let go of it. Alice then changes her instructions last second, Snake and Teliko finally get inside FAR and They begin to search for Flemming, but Teliko Alice reveals that Snake is indeed Hans Davis, and his men have captured Roger. Alice then tasks Teliko with killing Snake hears a gunshot on the other end of the call. Snake and Teliko then find Leone, but the which clouds his judgment and makes him attack. Snake and Teliko are forced to battle Leone As he lay dying, he tells Snake to deliver revealing that Roger had been the one who the United States. After this battle, Snake and Teliko are met disguised as Teliko. Snake is forced to fight Clown while making victorious. After the battle, Clown tells Snake where Clown then reveals her true face before she Teliko then smells Clown's perfume and recognizes her father was murdered. Taliko then grabs the disk and tells Snake but she decides to put her trust in Snake The pair soon reach Metal Gear's hangar Flemming then calls Snake, and his Hans personality As Snake begins to threaten to launch the that Snake is being controlled by No. 16's Flemming then activates Metal Gear, and Teliko to the ground below. Snake gets a call from Roger, revealing he Teliko tells Snake that Flemming isn't inside angered that No. 16 hasn't released his he'll kill Snake. Snake and Teliko then work together to destroy After enough damage, they're able to disable After the battle, Flemming tries to shoot him. Alice then calls and drops a massive revelation: Snake was never Hans, and Alice had only planted to kill each other. All of Snake's memories were simply implanted ACUA. As it turns out, the real Hans Davis never Snake asks why she tried to make him into No. 16. No. 16 survived the Ritual of Conjuration, No. 104, 104's spirit entered 16's body She then tells them that they only have 13 On Flight 326, Lena kills Senator Hach and When Minette arrives, Lena states that she'll that Minette also had false memories implanted Snake and Teliko escape the lab explosion, killed the real Hans Davis: Senator Viggo She then reveals the number carved into him: Snake realizes that this doesn't make the "NEKAL". Alice explains that NEKAL is one of BEAGLE's the ACUA drug. It is then discovered that ACUA stands for that she now has hundreds of thousands of Alice then tells Teliko that the man who ordered known as "Emilio" (the E in BEAGLE). In killing Hach, Alice claims to have avenged takes offense to. Alice, giving up her plans to take control words, then begins to feel the memories of at once. This overwhelms her, and she goes into shock, Snake then gives Roger Leone's last message, CIA Agent Charles Schmeiser then debriefs him. On Flight 326, Lena lays dying on the floor, that she is truly the spirit of No. 104. As it turned out, No. 104's spirit was unable entered the body of Dr. Flemming's daughter No. 16 then simply believed she was possessed, Sometime later, Charles Schmeiser reveals was Emilio, but after seeing BEAGLE's incompetence something new. Sometime after the events on Lobito Island, Consuela Alvarez in a plane piloted by Dave Snake, who had lost his memory three years by Consuela right after the "Praulia Massacre" were slaughtered. The plane touches down in the United States, the F.B.I., led by agent Dalton, who accuses Secretary of State, Mr. Perez. Dalton interrogates Snake, who claims that "Escobar". Dalton then threatens to extradite them over an offer he reluctantly accepts in exchange Snake is tasked with infiltrating private computer network to obtain their files. After Dalton takes Snake to their facility and downloads the files. They turn out to be a list of clients and they're for, Dalton simply responds "children", much darker and more nefarious than they seem. Suddenly, an alarm goes off, but Snake notices something somewhere else triggered it. Snake heads for a nearby communications tower but when he reaches it, he gets a call from by an unknown party. On the boat, the Department of Defense's (who he refers to as "ex-agent") that Wiseman then reveals that SaintLogic's Vice-President, and is demanding the U.S. hand over several to use a nuclear weapon if they don't. This nuclear weapon, as it turns out, is Metal Snake's mission changes to investigate this Snake's past to him if he cooperates. Snake heads for the Research Block, receiving communications who refers to himself as "Blackboard", Snake reaches the Research Block, where he's the area killed by SaintLogic's patrol bots. Dalton calls Snake in private, and tells him he learned that their president, Rodzinski, cover up his company's smuggling of children for their research. Dalton's poking into this business got him the case go, so he posed as an agent to convince leak online and expose SaintLogic. Snake and Dalton then decide to work together Snake continues to look into taking down SaintLogic. Snake continues on and soon finds a female "Lucy". The pair escape from Snake, and Wiseman calls Michiko Takiyama, psychological engineer. Snake is then tasked with tracking her down help. Snake then reaches Takiyama, who reveals that experiment to the chagrin of SaintLogic's stop him. Snake tells Takiyama to hide and continues After making his way through the facility's Snake is confronted by a giant green monster After a grueling battle, Snake kills this from the ceiling. She identifies herself as "Venus", a member to the Research Block. Snake follows Venus into the Research Block, Vince, arrives, who shares with his men his Criminal Court", investigating some incident Unbeknownst to him, B.B. eavesdrops on this conversation from afar. Snake and Venus return to Takiyama, but when Vince then barges in and initiates a battle. Snake and Venus are able to work together afterwards he reveals that Takiyama is in before telling them her last known location. An alarm then sounds, indicating that Metal escapes in the commotion. Snake and Venus find Takiyama and Lucy being from the mechanical aggressors. Afterwards, Takiyama confirms that Metal Gear have to do with something called the "Lucinda Dalton then secretly makes a call to B.B., he can on Wiseman, Metal Gear, and the EGO Wiseman instructs the group to travel aboard Block. On their way, Venus mentions to Snake that they both have no memory. The group are able to board the train... on Soldiers begin to climb up to stop them, but The train then reaches a bridge, but is stopped The train stops and the group climbs down Koppelthorn, piloting the mech, spots Lucy He then convinces Takiyama to join him in Gear. Vince then arrives and orders Koppelthorn at his fleet. He then recognizes Snake, and seemingly wanting knocking him out before destroying the bridge Gear escapes. After Snake wakes up from being knocked out down Metal Gear. After getting back on his feet, he and Venus Takiyama. The pair soon reach the locked room where and they speak with him through a monitor. Rodzinski tells them about another route to the EGO System and the Lucinda File having More shockingly, Rodzinski reveals that Snake fueling the man's revenge. Snake and Venus find the entrance to the sewers After finding that they need a sniper rifle for one in the labs, where Snake gets another wife was a SaintLogic researcher named Lucinda. Snake and Venus then find the non-operational Lobito Island and used as research for Koppelthorn's After Snake and Venus find their sniper rifles, elites: a fire breathing man named "Golab", After a battle, Golab warns Snake of the "fertilization", merely become a "helpless slave to the Queen". Snake is confused by this, but doesn't have an explosion. As he and Venus escape from the blast, they forced to take it down quickly before the After the tense battle, Venus and Snake make completely destroyed in the fiery blast. They soon reach the hangar, and B.B. calls Snake to give him a rundown on new information system for the new Metal Gear, dubbed the The first model was simply source code, while human mind into a computer application. Lucinda Koppelthorn then used this operating it (and its host) new powers and abilities, Serap and Golab. The data from these experiments lead to a that is. Snake and Venus then reach the Central Operations File. Shortly after, they are ambushed by another the ability to hypnotize them. After battling him, Chaigidiel reveals more Chaigidiel reveals that through Koppelthorn's his dead wife Lucinda's mind. As it turns out, Koppelthorn was purchasing subject to transplant her mind into. He eventually found this subject in the young preparing the "fertilization" of her mind After Chaigidiel dies, B.B. calls once again and tells Snake and Dalton death. Apparently, she died in the Serena Republic research for the EGO System. After she died, her data was recovered and Snake and Venus are soon stopped by Vince, After, Vince calls Rodzinski and learns that decided to carry out their investigation. Vince then orders his men to retreat as well, and Metal Gear with no opposition before he B.B. then calls Dalton once again to reveal more This time, B.B. reveals that the Praulia Massacre was committed control during a field test. This makes the Lucinda File not only valuable that could lead to those responsible for the Dalton then tasks B.B. with somehow getting this information to the trying to keep it under wraps for his own Snake and Venus then finally reach the main Metal Gear, codenamed Chaioth Ha Qadesh. Inside the beast are Koppelthorn and Lucy, of Lucinda. Koppelthorn then finally "refreshes" Snake's In reality, Snake is not the real legendary The real Solid Snake died after the events by SaintLogic. Lucinda then used his genetic material to 2 uprising in the Serena Republic. This "Model 3" was none other than him: attempt to escape. Koppelthorn then activates Metal Gear, forcing After they destroy its arms and ray cannon, EGO System to allow Lucy to take full control After this activation, however, Lucy reveals wife, and in reality her ego combined with Lucy then reveals that Snake didn't kill and helped him escape, effectively giving Lucy then takes control of Metal Gear, destroying Another battle with Snake and Venus then ensues, mech down. Afterwards, Lucy is ejected from the machine, Lucinda File are before dying from her wounds. Snake and Venus then head to Takiyama's Suddenly, Wiseman gives Venus the order to revealing that Wiseman was the one behind As it turns out, Wiseman sent the Model 2 File would reveal. Venus, another test subject, was sent in to incriminate Wiseman. Wiseman then reveals that B.B. has been discovered by the Secretary of Defense, leaving them hopeless. Snake tells Takiyama to escape while he fights After Snake defeats her in battle, B.B. calls to reveal that he was able to use Chaigidiel's of the United States to investigate the situation. More importantly, however, B.B. learned that Metal Gear's destruction has entire facility. Venus, realizing her employer's game is again. Takiyama rejoins them, but when they try to while they escape. Outside, Metal Gear arrives and fires its before it deactivates. Venus and Takiyama reach safety, and afterwards, Wiseman is arrested for his shady activities, while being reprimanded for his actions. Venus goes on to live a normal life, working Snake also survives the ordeal, revealing warhead, disabling it and launching himself He then speaks with Dalton, who tells him File, has been revealed to the public. Dalton then gives Snake and his team his agreed-upon life. This brings us to the end of the Metal Gear Gear Story: that of 2018's "Metal Gear This installment is an alternate, "what-if" V: Ground Zeroes and possibly the last Metal take it away. During Skull Face's attack on Mother Base soldiers provides cover fire for Big Boss from getting shot down. After the chopper flies off to safety, a wormhole Base and begins to absorb everything in the Another MSF member named Seth is pulled up, him. The soldier's efforts prove futile, however, closes, severing their arm in the process. Shortly after, the few remaining survivors to give them a burial at sea. Before they do, a U.S. Government agent known Section" (a secret research organization) after it's sent out to sea. As it turned out, the soldier survived due infected them with some kind of otherworldly caused their severed arm to grow back. This organism, which first appeared on Earth eventually turn any human it infects into Fortunately, when the wormhole opened, the organism's origin: a parallel dimension Knowing that they can extract energy from drastically shift the balance of power in the Charon Corps into Dite. However, they soon lose contact with the team, Now six months after the attack on Mother Due to their contact with the wormhole and candidate to follow the Charon Corps into Energy, as well as any survivors. The infection also leaves the soldier no choice way to prevent themselves from becoming a The soldier is then sent into Dite, given The Captain then searches for Charon Corps' Reeve who was sucked into the wormhole above The pair form a shaky partnership to escape of various Mother Base structures that were There, they find the Charon Corps' artificial from its sleep protocol to find that all of research had been deleted. The Captain then goes out to search for Virgil's the area. Through this data, Virgil uncovers research Wormholes to quickly travel around Dite. During their travels, the Captain uses an area covered in what's only known as the The Captain then comes across a nurse named her back to Base Camp, where she and Reeve hand: rescuing survivors or returning home. The Captain is able to locate enough data could transport them back to their home dimension. While doing so, however, they witness a giant "Lord of Dust". After bringing the Wormhole Digger back to open around the area, bringing attacking Wanderers. The Captain is forced to fight them off while they're successful in protecting the camp, path back to Earth. After the Wormhole Digger shuts off, however, Section member (and current leader of the Gruen reveals that Goodluck had worked against mission, leading to his termination and Gruen's Gruen then instructs the Captain to forget believes Goodluck only wanted it for his own The Captain then goes back out to retrieve Kuban Energy, called "Iris Energy", to During this mission, the Captain rescues two to Base Camp: a young boy named Chris and Once they obtain enough Iris Energy for the again. This causes another wave of wormholes to open for the Captain to fend off while the Wormhole When the device is at 90%, Gruen is able to wormhole will collapse again unless they increase He also reveals that Goodluck installed some his termination, which he believes was some Virgil wishes to speak to Goodluck directly, as Goodluck is dead from an apparent suicide. Virgil increases the Wormhole Digger's output The energy released by the wormhole attracts from its attacks so they can quickly enter After they all make it through, Virgil closes the Lord of Dust. When the group emerge on the other side, however, it home, but they're instead simply in a As they find safety, Virgil plays the recording In it, Goodluck reveals that he knew they all of the events so far. Goodluck then tasks the Captain with one final, of Dust using a powerful weapon in the area. He further states that a Charon Corps survivor find and use that weapon. After securing more memory boards for Virgil the Captain finds the Charon Corps survivor, tried to save from the wormhole above Mother The Captain's regenerated arm suddenly starts off. The Captain takes Seth back to their new Forward on what's been going on. Seth, who was discovered by the Charon Corps the man holding him at gunpoint, Dan, had every single one of them besides himself. Seth then reveals that the weapon the group The Captain locates Sahelanthropus, which it, Dan arrives and holds them up. Virgil then speaks with Dan, who states that claims that Seth did the deed. Before he can continue his story, however, split up in the ensuing chaos. The Captain returns to the FOB and speaks version of the past events. Regardless, Virgil determines that the railgun weapon Goodluck told them to find. The Captain heads back to Sahelanthropus and to Base Camp using a wormhole, but when they Seth is holding Chris hostage, revealing that that turned the Wanderers, which he reveals Seth, or rather the sentient Wanderer now an attempt to use the Wormhole Digger to travel the Dread Dust. Seth then infects Virgil with the Dust before abilities to trigger their arm's reaction Reeve then arrives and shoots Seth before Seth then transforms into a powerful Wanderer, After a long and arduous duel, the Captain but in the wake of the battle, their arm begins When the Captain awakens, Virgil reveals that in their arm has activated, and they'll that is, unless they kill the Lord of Dust Virgil also explains that like the Captain, to regain all of their access to Charon Corps' Virgil then makes a shocking revelation: Dite in another dimension. Dite is simply the Earth, around two-hundred As it turns out, the Lord of Dust (an aggregate to the past in order to constantly obtain In order to stop this cycle, the Captain must the Lord of Dust, but in doing so, the Wormhole After making the last preparations to the the final battle. Reeve tasks Chris with returning back to their the wormhole technology so he can come back of Dust. Finally, the Captain activates the Wormhole of Dust for their final battle. Once the Lord of Dust is stuck in a trap made the Captain lifts Chris into it, returning At this point, the Captain can decide to leave and follow Chris into the wormhole. If this is the case, they simply wind up as finds in the past. If the Captain instead decides to continue Wanderer forces long enough to use Sahelanthropus's While this heavily damages the creature, it the wormhole. Virgil then reveals that since the Lord of Virgil then plays another, final, message other than Chris. Chris was sent back to 1943 and spent his Section so he could provide these recordings the Lord of Dust. Virgil then reveals the only way to defeat with it to reveal to it the concept of death, of Seth's human mind. Virgil then flies into the Lord of Dust, and This time, the Lord of Dust understands death, The survivors look upon the dead beast, before way home. There, while they find the wormhole now closed, (having been designed to survive a nuclear The AI then resumes its job as mission support, to their own time someday. Back in this new version of 1975 with the is scolded by Joseph Gruen for predicting didn't happen. After Gruen leaves, Goodluck realizes that he thanks his friends and the Captain aloud of bringing them home. And this finally brings us to the end of Suggestive franchise. Through thirty-five years, twenty-plus games, touched the hearts of many gamers through One of those gamers being myself. I rarely get personal on this series, but video I'll ever make, I think I'm due This video took, on the whole, over a year months of that time solely dedicated to this I wouldn't make that commitment if it wasn't Gregg wouldn't have dedicated his own time course provide his own voice for this video as well. Metal Gear, and specifically its characters as they are to Gregg's and so many others' I can only hope that what we've put together through one of the best stories ever told, my favorite game series of all time. I'd like to take this time to thank everybody once again for all of his help. If I had to record all of this voice-over so make sure you check out all of his goings I'd like to also thank my fiance, for putting locked away in my office while working tirelessly And finally, I'd like to thank you all, Without you folks enjoying what I do so much, definitely wouldn't have made a video this I even asked if you wanted me to split this voted for me to just release it as one epic As always, if you'd like to support what can click the link for my Patreon or become Besides financially, a like and a subscribe a comment suggesting what you'd like to Thanks again everyone, I'll see you much