I don't think you should take notes during first became skeptical of the value of note-taking different forms of note-taking. I came across wise to take notes, as those who take and review those who do not.&quot; What made me skeptical? Well, but the last part of the sentence is presenting lectures is generally perceived to be good you tend to do the things that people tell you taking notes during lectures actually That's when i came across sentences like this one: been consistently higher for long-hand note takers and, you know, did not take any notes. And that on note-taking. But to understand what I might be helpful for learning in the first place. you learn in two different ways. The first way is heard is supposed to help you remember what it encoding is a bit mixed, but it probably does help much as alternative methods. The second way that you learn is by reviewing your notes later. So source that you can go back to, to reread again. is better than doing nothing, but it's probably there is a competing theory about note-taking While you are writing down what the lecturer just that time, your attention is split so you have to under the encoding hypothesis, you are summarizing But at the same time you also have to that is being said. Generally speaking, splitting idea in almost any context and the consequence is against the idea of taking notes during lectures, alternative approach is to leverage something that and deepening your understanding and that is crazy or exciting. You just take a blank sheet of you try to remember everything that you heard and you recall. So, in a way, it's kind of like taking This kind of free recall is effective in lots on its own without doing anything else. But it's missed - when you can correct yourself in a way. these claims? One, and this is something that bad. If you think about it for a second verbatim theories. From the attention side, if you're write a ton and you're essentially transcribing writing extremely fast for that to even get down So it's bad from the attention point of view. What understanding and synthesizing what's being said doing that. So it doesn't really help you there. If you are going back to reread your notes, you was said. You want to read kind of a summary of verbatim notes are bad with a possible exception research findings that say maybe it's not so bad fast your typing speed is. If your typing speed doesn't hurt you as much. There's a bunch of laptop and taking notes by hand, but i'm not going and this is going to come as no surprise to you things that are actually tested on, you do better hypothesis or not is a little unclear because when you thought it was important. And you paid that you paid attention to it that was important? important? Well, probably a little bit of both, you end up doing well and if you paid attention or not, you probably are not going to do as well. taking notes during lectures doesn't really confer lectures or doing what I called earlier a free research, taking notes during the lecture doesn't whatsoever. In this study, for example, the groups using any of the other note-taking that in delayed tests free recall approaches beat re-reading by a lot and this increases studies I read, I did not see a single study free recall on a delayed test. They either turn Listen to this Youtuber explain his method: &quot;You words that you don't understand. You need to look You really need to get to grips with that struggling with things or googling words during that you can focus on what the lecturer is saying. I will sit down after the lecture - no a4 piece of card and I will recreate what I to those lecture notes or to that kind of active that I have. He's got it exactly right. Prepare the lecture, and then do free recall after might have made sense in a different era if the teacher in that one moment and you have no other Maybe it does make some sense to take notes you're probably also missing some of the other a lot of lecture-based courses are on widely recorded. You can go back to a recording, you you obviously have your textbook or maybe outline notes that someone else has created or what you may have missed in this particular during the lecture you're almost guaranteeing want to find out more about free recall i have a