-Hey. I'm Rick Steves, to a land where there's We're in Egypt. It's Cairo. Cairo, straddling the Nile, is the biggest city and the biggest It's the capital of Egypt and one of the leading With about 20 million people it's bursting at the seams And this energy will carry us to some of Cairo's and most vibrant neighborhoods. We'll explore the back streets help chisel a tombstone, greet the ancient Sphinx, marvel at King Tut's gold, drop in on a mosque... -Buy one, two free today. -...haggle with a gauntlet have dinner at home and marvel at the pyramids. In the southeast Egypt, 50% bigger than Texas, gathers its 100 million along the Nile River. We'll explore and finish Cairo is a fascinating clash religious and secular, While its chaos it can also be for the adventurous traveler. Cairo's downtown is modern [ Horns blaring ] Streets, squares, are reminders of the from the 19th The riverfront throbs stately bridges busy fancy riverside restaurants, and towering The Nile is still sprawling endlessly The heart of Cairo It's long been ground zero If there's a demonstration and there have been massive it's likely here. In addition the city's long been Ever since the forces of Islam from Arabia, spreading the teachings Cairo has been a leading And, today, Cairo's known as the City Stepping into Al-Hussein Mosque, you'll find It's believed that resting here There's more intensity believed to contain the head of Al-Husayn ibn Ali, a grandson In a mosque, men and women As praying can be physical, it's considered more respectful I find that a respectful tourist is welcome to be Along with minarets, especially in Cairo's While Egypt is today, about 10% The Egyptian, or Coptic, Church actually predates Islam Because they worship stepping into a Coptic mass The faithful believe that, when Mary, Joseph, escaped Herod this very spot Later, in 43 AD, it's believed came to Egypt and established Mark was their first pope, in an unbroken line stretching back -[ Chanting -The Coptic Quarter comes Throughout Egypt, armed guards, security barriers, and a high-profile These are reminders of a pent-up They reveal the challenges While many modern Muslims would prefer a separation others believe Egypt with a strict interpretation Religious fundamentalism as it is in America. Cairo is intense. I love traveling here, but I do it with safety While prices on the street if you want rich world comfort, I sleep in an international- It comes I hope the future but, for now, I splurge, Cairo's mighty citadel, capped by a dramatic is a reminder is nothing new here. For nearly 700 years, of Egypt's rulers Back in the 13th century, of the most impressive But buildings only partially The people you see are the living descendants and greatest, The people of today's Egypt in a story that goes back Even if you don't understand its long and complicated just observing how old is rewarding to the traveler. Egypt's heritage goes back And &quot;ancient&quot; Egypt, The iconic sights of Egypt, are basically buildings Back then, they believed and your big challenge -- to be sure your body survived the journey That's why, if you had you'd lock everything up a pyramid. These are the most famous, the Pyramids of Giza. But the oldest pyramid the tomb of the king, This structure, is a step pyramid. Dating from around 2,600 BC, it's a century older than its This first-ever is more than just With an innovative stacking it provided a new way creating a stairway to eternity. A visit to Cairo's helps bring the country's Along with the this museum shows off of ancient Egyptian art The core of the collection, art from the age dates from about 3,000 Nearly everything filling art designed to help save statues filled with symbolism, written prayers, and offerings and help assure a happy This ancient art because most of it was dark and dry, in tombs. This portrayal of geese, is perhaps the oldest This seated scribe recalls the importance in the court of an often And this couple, was also found in a tomb. It's all art for the dead, locked up until rediscovered Many mummies patiently Ancient Egyptians through a complex process in hopes that the soul could And the coffins with an inventory of things would accompany the body; &quot;and&quot; with prayers, The art looks essentially the A remarkable thing and society, as a whole, For 2,000 years, relative to other times very little changed. Religion permeated As long as things were the gods were happy Every year, bringing water When the gods are happy, and you don't change things. And the pharaoh If your leader is a god, You obey the rules. Things stay the same. Akhenaten was the one exception in a 2,000-year line Rather than the same Akhenaten had his own from a strangely to big, sensuous lips. Ruling around 1,400 BC, he was considered Akhenaten replaced all the gods with one all-powerful being, the Sun god, whom he called Aten. In reliefs from the reign we see Aten, the Sun, During the time of Akhenaten, people were portrayed looser, Casual family scenes? Must be from the time As always, I appreciate so I'll understand the symbolism So, we're joined by my friend She explained how lots of ancient hieroglyphic writing and how it helps us the mysteries of the pharaohs. -Papyrus is made out of the stem which is hammered and then, and then, we press it to get those beautiful papers. These are the hieroglyphs, one of the most ancient because of which about the civilization So, these are beautiful Even in the afterlife, they were trying to bribe in order to help them Even here, in front is a big offering pile as well as breads -Anything to make the god happy. -Anything to make him happy. -The son of Akhenaten perhaps the most famous pharaoh. A highlight of the is a section filled from his splendid coffin to his jewelry. This is exquisite. -It is a beautiful piece around the year 1300 BC, made out of gold, and you can see the beautiful where you can see the scarab, as well as the sun disc. The cobra is wearing the crowns as well as the ankh, The ancient Egyptians used and also mummify their organs. King Tutankhamun, had his organs inside this and that was also inside that had the surroundings of the So it was always -The mask of Tut so his soul could recognize him Placed over the head it was 24 pounds of gold, with a cobra and a vulture the united kingdom which Tut proudly ruled. After the museum, Cairo's characteristic is a colorful celebration Khan Al-Khalili is the Six hundred years ago, a stop on a caravan trade route. Then. when the Ottoman Turks it became a bustling Today it's a stop and the merchants -How are you? Ah! How can I take your money? -...eager to charm you -Welcome, everything is free. Welcome to Egypt. -Today, 100% discount because today my birthday. -Buy one, two free today. -No money, no honey. -The hustlers can be or fun, -Hello, my friend! -Hello! -Dive in, with a sense of humor. Bargaining is expected treat it as a game. Never feel sorry for -- If you see something you like, and see how low -Here, your size. -Maybe $5. -Big size, for you. -Give me $5. Okay, okay. -I find that simply venturing from the tourist- suddenly, the tourists are gone and I'm swallowed up Wandering through the in Cairo's Islamic quarter, you feel that it goes Three-wheeled tuk-tuks [ Horn bleating ] I love to hop in one There's something about this chaotic dance of careening vehicles, Exploring the Islamic quarter It's a commotion of activity. Everywhere you look, something you've never is happening. Somehow, bikers balance Craftsmen inscribe with verses &quot;The peaceful soul, will finally rest in heaven.&quot; With a little effort, to become part of the scene. In this shop, a man spins that will become kanafeh. The classic street food lentil, rice, pasta, all mixed together The distinctive clanging [ Clang, clang ] [ Clang-clang ] And small bakeries are steadily producing destined to be filled Bread is subsidized to make life easier to feed their families. Walking through neighborhoods you gain an appreciation is a daily struggle for millions I make a point to explore [ Horns blaring ] like almost anywhere, there's a big gap In the relative cool the prosperous streets with window shoppers clearly a world for Egypt's And gated social clubs provide a refuge where the wealthy can live protected from the gritty My friend Tarek, who runs has invited me out Tarek grew up as a member here. He met his wife here and today this privileged environment These clubs have something birthday parties, playgrounds, competitive sports. Adults can retreat to play a quiet game of croquet socializing here with or just to watch We finish our evening just at Tarek's home, How do you say -- in France, -Bon appetit, yeah. -&quot; Bailhana' walshifa'&quot; -&quot; Bailhana'&quot; ...? -&quot; Bailhana'&quot; ... -That's very difficult. -[ Laughs ] -I think so. Mmm. Heba, this is so beautiful. Can you give me, please, a tour of this -Sure. this is stuffed vine leaves... -Stuffed vine leaves. -Okay, and this is okra -Okra? -Very delicious. And this is Egyptian beef And this is, of course, rice. -This is rokak. -Yes. -It's some kind of pastry stuffed with mincemeat. -This is tzatziki. So, we have moussaka... and the Greeks. Moussaka, the stuffed -Yeah. &quot;that's my food&quot; -- -We cook it differently. -Okay... There we go. So is it normal for children -Actually, they're -Yeah, and your kids go -Yes, American ones. -Sometimes on Friday we watch, on the TV Netflix -- -You can choose, Egyptian or English? -Family movie! -Every Thursday night, -And Heba, what do you to be successful -Mm. To have good faith, good education as well, -Uh-huh. -Self-confident. I think you're on the on the right road. I hope so. -That's lovely. -[ Chuckles ] -Cairo sprawls. It's a jam-packed city Massive blocks of apartment many violating building codes to congest Driving through we finally reach the desert and the sight that draws the Pyramids at Giza, one of the most recognizable Towering before us are the tombs of three great kings, These monuments were built the bodies of fabulously wealthy They spent a good part and their kingdom's wealth, building huge pyramids, for whatever they wanted their bodies, their treasures -- even their favorite pets. The pyramid is the only survivor of the Seven Wonders This grandest of all pyramids -- was built 2,500 years The neighboring pyramids of Cheops' son and grandson. The smaller ones? They're for the wives Experts guess that, with 10,000 laborers it took 20 years to build According to my abacus, that's 200,000 man-years Workers dragged over two million eventually constructing In their day, in a shiny limestone veneer. I sure hope Cheops Long, secret corridors, originally blocked lead to the tomb chamber, deep in the center Climbing this passage, and the audacity of the project. Finally, you're hit by the thought and precious chamber silent for 4,000 years, until the arrival of tourism. This is it: the center The pharaoh's mummy was put The sarcophagus is bigger so this must've been and then the pyramid This huge chamber was filled A little shaft was designed to provide an escape passage For the pharaoh, was his soul, for the ascent to the afterlife. Back outside, is the mysterious Sphinx. As old as the pyramids, it was carved out of a piece that stuck above the With the body of a lion it came to symbolize as it faces east The sphinx faces the promise and so does Cairo -- as Egypt's ancient story Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, -It's bursting with energy and pulsing with vigor. -[ Chuckle ] -So this must've been and then the pill-- pyramid -- [ Slap ] built around it! -You know it's better It's a little weird. -It's like adoring gaze