Karma and Five Important Principles in Buddhism Middle Length Discourses. the moral and spiritual realm is Karma. Rebirth Rebirth are two fundamental doctrines Before the time of the Buddha, the doctrines disseminated in India. However, it was the and presented the profound teachings Why is there disparity among humanity? How do we explain the apparent injustices in the luxury, wealth, brilliance, moral integrity, and suffering, and hardship? Why does one person to make ends meet? Why is one individual dull? Why are some born with the gentle nature of from birth? Why are there prodigies in languages, Why are some children born blind, deaf, mute, or enter the world blessed with every advantage, Are there specific causes for the then these differences must be random The wise cannot believe in blind luck and do In this world, nothing happens to anyone sorrows that people experience are the either in the present life or in past and understanding based on sensory perception, complex causes of the world's mechanisms. see all the subtle causes that allowed these not entirely created in the present life but Are there enlightened beings can perceive what ordinary eyes and ears Some belief systems claim that all differences in the supreme decision of a Creator. The Buddha did who created the universe. scientists explain human disparities? these disparities to a combination of physical The renowned physiologist Julian Huxley wrote: a physiological unit called 'gene' (genes the traits of the father are transmitted to There are types of 'genes' that Some influence height and weight. lifespan, and health. There are also 'genes' that if not all, are governed by these &quot;As for mental traits - more complex and subtle Although there are clear examples of mental characteristics from grandparents and parents must &quot;All traditions, both mental and physical, in between the inherited 'genes' each person We must acknowledge that all the physical and explain part of the problem. However, these the subtle differences among individuals. If the children were certain to resemble their parents, who inherit the same life force, the yet each has a different disposition? Their Inheritance cannot fully explain the deep This theory explains similarities more than 'gene' (1/30,000,000 inch) explains part. For mental, intellectual, and moral and subtle, we still need many more insights. murderous children in a family known for its into a violent family. It also cannot account On the Theory of Heredity, Dr. Th. &quot;Regarding the role of genetic inheritance physical inheritance, or 'genes,' explains regarding intellectual abilities and moral If genetic inheritance fully constituted a person, we would find all traits of the parents in &quot;Thus, there would be no murderous children in born into wicked families. In daily life, we inheriting the same traits, born under identical yet one is virtuous, and the other of numerous prodigies baffles scholars who back the lineage of prodigies, can we always not all traits and intelligence of a person nor are they entirely passed down to among the descendants of Mozart, Beethoven, and In the realm of materialists, there has been &quot;Physically, not all characteristics children. The intelligence and causing many virtuous families sorrow Buddhism acknowledges the influence considers it insufficient. Buddhism adds result of past and present actions. We must past and reap the circumstances of happiness own heaven and our own hell. We build our The Cause of Disparities named Sudha, puzzled by the inequalities among &quot;Blessed One, why are some people short-lived sickly while others are healthy, some powerless while others influential, into lowly families while others into noble The Buddha briefly replied: &quot;All beings have their karma as their inheritance, their own actions as their kin, as their that beings are born unequal.&quot; (Majjhima Then the Buddha explained each case to Sudha: &quot;If a person kills living beings, hands who lives without compassion, upon &quot;If a person refrains from and treats all beings with kindness, &quot;If a person is cruel, always using fists and weapons against others, &quot;If a person does not harm others, and is kind &quot;If a person is rude, always angry, insulting, and &quot;If a person is refined and courteous, never retaliating even when insulted, &quot;If a person is envious, always coveting respect the honorable, upon rebirth, they &quot;If a person is not envious, does respects the honorable, upon rebirth, they &quot;If a person is stingy, never giving to others, clings to their possessions, &quot;If a person is generous, loves to give, &quot;If a person is arrogant, does not respect the &quot;If a person is humble, respects the &quot;If a person does not seek the company of the upon rebirth, they will be foolish. &quot;If a person seeks the company upon rebirth, they will be intelligent.&quot; In the cycle of rebirth, people are more Take the case of the Buddha. He was genetic inheritance of his parents like all none in his lineage could compare to him. The lineage of kings but to the lineage of Buddhas, was born with extraordinary karma that he According to the Lakkhana Sutta, the Buddha to the vast merits he had accumulated Sutta explains in detail each good mark of the The unique case of the Buddha proves that the also surpasses and diminishes the effect &quot;I am the heir to my deeds, Regarding the differences among &quot;Due to the different karma of each being, there are disparities in rebirth. Some are born others into respect. Some are &quot;Due to the different karma of each being, some are beautiful, others ugly; some tall, &quot;Due to the different karma of each success or failure, fame or infamy, &quot;Karma drives the world. And through karma, beings are bound, Assembled, clinging, and revolving around the hub. &quot;Karma brings beings to honor. To oppression and downfall. Why believe that in this life there is no karma?&quot; In summary, according to Buddhism, intellectual, and innate qualities largely depend Not Everything Is Due to Karma main cause of disparities in life it does not assert that everything is due to cause of differences among beings. The law of 24 conditions (Paccaya) described in Buddhist &quot;all good, bad, or neutral outcomes arise &quot;If one insists that it is due to past thief, adulterer, liar, rude, or wretched, then one has a basis to perform or avoid certain actions, This important passage corrects the in the mental and physical If the present life were entirely the law of karma would be nothing more than the freedom to improve their lives in the an illusion. Life would be entirely automatic, Believing that we are born by the decree of an or believing that karma determines what is the difference? The Such fatalism is not the law of karma in Buddhism. The Five Niyama (Laws) are five laws or processes (Niyama) that operate 1. Utu Niyama: The physical law related such as weather phenomena, rain, wind, heat, cold, the four seasons, and the characteristics of 2. Bija Niyama: The physical law related such as plant life. This law explains why a rice seeds, orange trees from orange and honey, etc. Scientific theories about are also governed by this law. The physical 3. Kamma Niyama: The law of cause and effect or to their outcomes, either pleasant or unpleasant. results. This natural law dictates that the effect or punishment. The progression from cause to orbit around the sun. This principle of cause The principle of cause and effect is continuous. A scientist who accumulates knowledge and carries that knowledge and experience remember past life experiences and knowledge, but experiences and knowledge in this same life. art, history, linguistics, etc., who, without 4. Dhamma Niyama: The law of nature, including is born into his final life, the law of 5. Citta Niyama: The psychological law and mental powers such as telepathy, knowledge mind-reading, and other phenomena that These five natural laws explain phenomena. Karma is just one of these five laws. Like all universal laws, these five processes for a supernatural force. The laws governing as well as the law of nature (Dhamma Niyama), are can control them to some extent. For example, on fire without burning or sit naked in the beautiful out-of-season gardens, and yogis can The laws governing mental processes operate When a cause is established, the Buddhist practice aims to control the mind, pure thought. The law of cause and effect it is impossible to alter its severe consequences. partially mitigate karma's effects. To some The law of cause and effect is complex, The ultimate goal for a Chapter 2: What is Karma? Karma, according to its proper meaning, is Karma is intention (cetana). Thoughts, words, act,&quot; which creates motivation. Buddhism calls actions, whether expressed through body, speech, whether good or bad, create Karma. even if expressed through words The Buddha said, &quot;Monks, I declare intention to act leads to action, Except for the actions of the Buddhas and Karma. Although the Buddhas and Arahants they no longer create new Karma because having eradicated ignorance and craving, (The Jewel Discourse) states: &quot;The seed is This does not mean that the Buddhas and engage in activities that promote the well-being often considered virtuous, do not have the true nature of all phenomena, they bind beings in the cycle of rebirth, Some belief systems also recognize that but when they refer to Karma, they claim that According to this view, a person who kills their commits the same grave sin. Just as with fire, their hand into the fire, one must be Such reasoning naturally leads to an illogical unintentionally, or a mother accidentally causing bad Karma? Moreover, using one event to explain hand into the fire and someone committing an For example, according to this logic, if Mr. who is guilty of the crime, while Mr. A is not, Furthermore, according to this reasoning, an an intentional one. In other words, intentionally because in the example of putting one's the intentional person would be more cautious without prior intention, would not have In the law of Karma, the mind is the most are influenced by the mind. &quot;When the mind is their deeds, words, and thoughts. Disciplining the &quot;The mind leads the world, the mind pulls the The Dhammapada says: &quot;The mind precedes all actions. The mind is one speaks or acts with an evil mind, suffering One might wonder how an invisible thing the material world. In fact, it is not difficult of transforming the modern world The invisible mind creates all Karma is not necessarily only past actions, in one sense, how we are in the present and how we will act in the future depends on we must also add that how we are in the and how we will be in the future does not The present is certainly the child of But in the immensely complex retributive present to definitively assert the past and could become a saint tomorrow. A virtuous A mother's advice to her child: &quot;If you are are not good, you will not be loved and Like attracts like. Good brings about good, and bad brings about bad. This In summary, Karma is the law of or as Westerners often say, Karma and Its Results (Kamma and Vipaka) to that action. In other words, Vipaka is the is accompanied by its shadow, every intentional Karma can be compared to a seed with the . flowers, and other external differences sickness, and misfortune in material life, Precisely speaking, Karma and its Actions (Karma) and their consequences (Vipaka) are created by the mind. Since Karma can be good If actions belong to the mind, so do their and contentment, or sadness, suffering, Karma. The results manifest as good or In the material realm, Anisamsa are longevity, etc., while Adinava are the illness, short life, etc. Karma consists of (Kusala akusala lokiya citta), and Vipaka is the According to the Abhidhamma, Karma includes 12 of wholesome consciousness in the Sensuous consciousness in the Form Realm (rupavacara), Formless Realm (arupavacara). In total, there Additionally, the 8 supramundane are not considered Karma because The driving force of all mundane whereas the primary factor in The 9 types of wholesome consciousness in in the Form Realm and 4 wholesome in the not manifest as actions or speech like the 20 All actions are mental. The mind manifests All 29 types of consciousness mentioned have the automatic potential to produce Joy, sorrow, happiness, or suffering are the consciousness, called resultant states of mind the Form Realm and the 4 resultant states in the Having sown the seed, one must reap the in the present life or in future lives. Today, we The Samyutta Nikaya says: That is the fruit one shall reap. Whosoever does evil shall gather evil. Sow the seed of good, Karma is a law with its own unique The potential to bear fruit is inherent in Karma. there is the latent power to produce results, just a tree and bear fruit. Cause produces effect; seeing the fruit, we know the seed. The like that between Karma and Vipaka. &quot;The seed Happiness and suffering, which often occur certain causes. Buddhism does not advocate omnipotent supernatural force. Theistic theories future life without acknowledging the past. undergoes judgment, with blessings and a Supreme Creator who governs the universe and Buddhism does not recognize an eternal It believes in natural law and justice, a benevolent Buddha. According to action causes a corresponding reaction, which Some people, based on their understanding, is a form of opiate to soothe and lull &quot;Now you must endure poverty because That person is wealthy because they created and strive to create good Karma in the &quot;In this life, you are oppressed and in the past. Accept this miserable fate and live virtuously, and you will be The Buddha never taught such things. never advocates for judgment after life. taught Karma not to protect the rich and comfort According to the law of Karma, we are as Karma is not destiny or predestination force. Our good or bad actions create we are entirely free to create new Karma. We have the ability to modify our Thus, beings are not forced to completely reap within certain limits, with proper The Origin of Karma or the lack of thorough understanding of of Karma. In the Twelve Links of Dependent &quot;Dependent on ignorance, formations Because of ignorance of the true nature of all Craving (tanha) - which goes hand in hand with arising of Karma. Ignorance and craving are the (puthujjana, beings still within the three generosity (alobha, non-greed), and wisdom (amoha, non-delusion), but still have not been eradicated. In contrast, the path-consciousness) does not create Karma to eradicate ignorance and craving. Who creates Karma? Who reaps the results? To answer this delicate question, Venerable Buddhaghosa wrote in the Visuddhi &quot;There is no doer of Karma. There are only processes moving on. According to Buddhism, there are two ultimate reality. The apparent reality and the ultimate reality is absolute, For example, a table, a fan, a person, an senses can perceive. By convention, we agree to to refer to these objects. Therefore, the table However, if we analyze the table, we see that what and cells are merely combinations when analyzed to the ultimate level, matter is These energies and properties are the When conversing with people, a scientist the scientist refers to water as while H2O is the scientific term, Similarly, in everyday conversations, we sentient being, etc. These so-called reveal that they are merely a combination of not remaining the same even Thus, Buddhism does not believe in a permanent that acts apart from actions, perceives apart apart from consciousness. In other words, no actor, perception but no perceiver, So who creates Karma, and who reaps the results? which motivates actions (through body, Karma. Feeling (vedana) is the experiencer of intention and feeling, there is no being Venerable Buddhaghosa taught that when physical at some point, it will bear fruit, and the five aggregates (form, feeling, and consciousness) combine to form what is good or bad results arise, and we say that On this point, Buddhism aligns with Descartes' argument and asserts: Where is Karma Stored? &quot;Karma is stored within the mental realm, penetrate the deep recesses of the mind. Karma undergone, feelings felt, and influences absorbed faithfully records personal experiences but also though seemingly diminished in civilized society, still hold a powerful potential that Buddhists also recognize this but with Buddhism asserts that Karma is not stored in a no evidence of such a repository within the However, each experience, each feeling, each whether mundane or sublime, of an individual, in that individual's mental and physical In summary, all karmic forces depend on and are always ready to manifest in various One day, King Milinda asked Venerable Nagasena: &quot;Great King, we cannot say that Karma is stored body. However, dependent on mind and body, just as we cannot say that a mango dependent on the tree, it will bear Just as we cannot say where wind or fire resides, we cannot assert that Karma is Karma is an individual force transferred crucial role in shaping a person's character. great individuals, geniuses, prodigies, of Karma is essential for creating