I present you the Top 10 Winter Activities in certainly very fun to experience in Switzerland, Alps. I have travelled across the country for mile to find about the best things to do during you the best places but also sharing the most to best enjoy your Winter holidays! Let's start Before uncovering new places you have not heard and this would be mount Titlis in Engelberg. this is what you can find here. You will three cabin rides to access the summit of The ride is quite scenic and takes roughly 40 quite interesting as it is a rotating one. you may enjoy a breathtaking panorama over is usually a very good amount of snow up on you to experience the true Winter feeling, even Besides the breathtaking view over the Alps, you which is quite thrilling, especially for people Further down at Trubsee, you may go for a fun easier version of sledding. Just sit down and let not steep at all but just nice enough to have a we have done it for over 10 times, and it's Number nine would be the many light shows you [Music] nights. This makes it perfect for hosting light you can visit various light festivals across that turns the old city basically into a night up with different motives. You can even stand projection by standing in front of the cameras. buildings, especially inside the Jesuit church. there are more. Visit the enchanted forest to Lucerne, you will be experiencing your a forest full of sculptures and magical thus make sure to secure your tickets Only held on three days, you can enjoy the voted the most beautiful village of Switzerland in LiLu as the entire city will be lit up. There are neon and black light discoes and more. While the and Murten require you to purchase tickets. Time of the Year - with number eight we are of Switzerland. [Music] Of course, when it's Christmas season! Switzerland is a true Christmas markets allover the country! Whether in the bigger Alps or by the lake; you find them everywhere! experience here in Switzerland. The cities, beautiful lights, there are numerous stalls typical for this season. These would involve Besides the beautiful lightings and unique performances everywhere, marches Saint Nicolas mingling among the visitors, artists the fairytale tram. Most importantly, what never Now where to find some of the best Christmas Basel, as well as in Montreux you can visit some Markets video should you want know about [Music] is a place I'm pretty sure all of you know and This is certainly one of the most The Lauterbrunnen valley is the frozen waterfalls during Winter season. which might make your visit a lot the village of Lauterbrunnen is blessed with a There is a lot more to experience in one of the most beautiful villages of Switzerland, when the village is covered with loads of snow. At Allmendhubel to go for an easy sledding. the location at where James Bond in her Majesty's there is absolutely stunning, you will get Monch and Jungfrau as well as the An unforgettable experience is also to dine at did back then, make sure you spend quite Number six is the Hidden Gem on this top 10 Although I recorded this on a snowy day in late beautiful this place is during the Winter season. Valais up on 1500 m. This place is the forest and the village appear specially A must is to go for a short easy walk around the depending on how often you stop for taking into this wonderful environment. and Western shore of the lake as the view from Champex-Lac is rather a hidden gem within With number five, we are moving to the things you can do here in Switzerland a train ride on the Matterhorn I know everyone is talking about the Glacier is the Matterhorn Gotthard bahn: It uses addition to that, is quite cheaper. Yes, no fancy seats, no restaurant, but instead just still open the windows. At least until 2029, they will consider that even beyond this date. Goms. The first part to Realp is very pristine within a tunnel but then you enter the valley It kind of does not matter too much as each of them is unique. may want to explore, here is my suggestion: houses, Munster, the largest town with a stunning the town with one of Switzerland's This is certainly a bit of a different kind That will make you quite Swiss! With number four we're going to be Light Ride at Lenzerheide [Music] for during the night: This is Mario Kart not in space but a Winter Wonderland forest! that this attraction has become very popular, to guarantee your visit. If you got your as otherwise you would need to rent one here, good winter boots, and certainly never ever The lightride is open from January to Midmarch taking this cabin up and then the first part will the lightride is only at the lower part of the you will arrive at the start. There are up to having started, you may not only think about being as certain things will give you extra points that first is not necessarily equal to being the best. my favorite part are these colorful rings descent. You may check your ride summary by Some more important facts: The lightride is includes unlimited rides, I though think 3 runs have been sledding, the bumpier the lane becomes. We are now moving up to the podium of the top 10 Number three is world famous Zermatt: I know this place has been many times on more with every visit I spent up there! kind. A beautiful Winter village with one background. That's the iconic Matterhorn popular photosubjects since decades. which creates a very relaxing atmosphere it is considered being one of the most beautiful old houses to see in the village, by the way, see some of the best photospots around the at in Switzerland. You may purchase it by The best things to do in Zermatt are heading up over the Swiss Alps and the Matterhorn. Gornergrat. To access this place you will have to you can see the Matterhorn from various window once in a while, but please do that with you will be rewarded with this breathtaking vista. opinion, you get the most beautiful appearance up to the Kleinmatterhorn, that's Europe's highest perfect 360deg panorama, do not forget to go to the We're not done yet, Zermatt is also amazing for the train ride, as you get to see the Matterhorn also allows you to easily access restaurants Chez Vrony, @Paradise and Alphitta affordable and expensive ones. Depending on to enjoy wellnessing, then I can recommend Beau Rivage... there are of course a lot more. night, during December and January, you have these dining once in a while outside of your hotel, my Champagne Bar, Walliserkanne and Swiss Chalet. very fun for in Winter, but make sure to plan Number two, again a lot of action, and that I have been wanting to do this since quite a town of Leysin to try out this very fun activity. snow tubing is probably the right activity I though have to say, I was initially quite run. There are in total 8 runs that you can go it is. I shortly noticed though that all of them Runs number 1 and 2 are easy, definitely good I suggest go to Number 3, you will be and then you will be ready to take the steeper as number 1 and 2, just the decline is steeper. numbers 3 and 8 are very fun. There are also Important facts, visits at the Toboggan Park sure to use your time well. You can have drinks when your slot starts, even if you are late, I highly advise you to come here at least 15 And now, I'm pretty sure you before I'm revealing to you the number here are a few top honorable Verbier / Mont-Fort, Saas-Fee, The village of Bergun itself, and the Grindelwald First with its Cliff Walk. for the year 2025 would be the Meanwhile quite popular on Social ranks first well. There are many bridges to walk on but the one at Glacier 3000 You will have to drive up to Les as passroad that is open all year At Pillon, you may take the gondola to you will ascend quite high up to 2940 Meters few stairs until you reach the bridge, and here, this altitude is a little bit more tiring than in Having arrived at the bridge, you will oversee lake Geneva, the Swiss, French and you have an absolutely stunning panorama. I suggest you to come here during the week, of skiers and locals who come up here. open during all year, but certainly during Winter So many great things you can do here in to go for the best Christmas markets, then, if you're interested in something