(gentle music) - Grab some Fritos and get down with country courtesy of Fritos. (clap board clicking) - I like to say I'm spontaneous. I am down for everything, but I take my art, my Country music has been there for me when I felt like nobody else was. I moved to Nashville in a I had no friends. It was just me and my guitar. I've always had country music to lean on. I think there's just so many and country music is there for them. It's my job now to stand on that stage and make sure that nobody does feel alone. Growing up, I didn't even realize that country music was a genre. Where I'm from, it was a way of life. It's what we listened That's what I listened to with my daddy, like we of those country songs. - One, two, one, two, three. (guitar music) I sure did a lot of And I swear it's a miracle Must've been Mama on her Or believin' in all those 'Cause I been hangin' Double daring, tempting And I ain't sayin' But I think my angels We'll I'ma do it my way kinda girl, Hardheaded, head strong Writing every line, every Ended up on the right road But I sure as hell know I 'Cause I been hangin' on Double daring, tempting And I ain't sayin' But I think my angels Maybe God in heaven's got a Somebody up there's lookin' And if you ever have doubt, Of how truly amazing, 'Cause I been hangin' on Double daring, tempting And I ain't sayin' But I think my angels No, I ain't sayin' But I think my angels Yeah, I think my angels Yeah, I think my angels (soft guitar music) I grew up around a lot of cowboys. My daddy's a cowboy. I watched season one of I felt like I was seriously because I truly just felt this to the show. I have a lot of favorite but if I had to choose I think she is sassy. She tells it like it is Nobody can do it like Beth can do it. I think we'd be friends. We can probably get into because I think me and my crew are definitely down for everything. (gentle guitar music) Waking up here in your arms I feel like a queen The sun's lightin' up And I see the wheels Think you're the one Give me a ring and settle me down Got a little hold on But, baby, my heart runs wild and free You gotta know 'fore you fall for me Like a feather in the No, you don't give a A home to you is a handed-down farm Little house on the back And home to me is this old guitar Yeah, a country song and a beat-up van Think you're the one Give me a ring and settle me down Got a little hold on But, baby, my heart runs wild and free You gotta know 'fore you fall for me Like a feather in the You don't give a rock Ain't got a thing to do with love I was born to roll And I belong to a long highway And there it goes, callin' my name Callin' my name Callin' my name Think you're the one Give me a ring and settle me down Got a little hold on But, baby, my heart runs wild and free You gotta know 'fore you fall for me Like a feather in the No, you don't give a No, you don't give a Country music is my life and I eat, sleep and breathe it. I sit around and I listen to a lot I guess I like to eavesdrop a little bit. There's times when the and we will write that song that day. Sometimes you have to work for it. Sometimes it takes years to finish a song. I think at the end of the day, it's just about sitting and saying things that a lot When I'm standing on stage, I like to call it an energy exchange that I'm having with the crowd. I am pouring out my energy, (gentle guitar music) I can hook a trailer I can shoot a shotgun, And I can change a tire Yeah, I know a few How to know when it's love How to stay when it's tough How to know you're And how to fix it 'fore it's too late And yeah, I know a boy Who gave up and got it wrong If you really love a Yeah, I know a few If I can't have it, I can do without And I can hang a picture And how to keep it hidden Yeah, I know a few How to know when it's love How to stay when it's tough How to know you're And how to fix it 'fore it's too late And yeah, I know a boy Who gave up and got it wrong If you really love a Yeah, I know a few I How to know when it's love How to stay when it's tough How to chase forever down a driveway How to never let it get And yeah, I know a boy Who gave up and got it wrong If you really love a Yeah, I know a few Yeah, I know a few - This special performance by Fritos, the down for everything chip.