Hi guys hope you're well. So look pasta, one of the most beautiful things in the world. I love everything with pasta so beautiful recipes that I think you're Hey guys we're gonna make the most beautiful spicy sausage pasta with gorgeous cherry tomatoes, loads of herbs, balsamic linguine. it's a real summer classic, a beautiful meal for six people. so get yourself a nice casserole style Happy days. First up sausages you can use that's cool. But they've got to be good. Moroccan style sausage made of lamb or I just find that's a kind of cuter Cut these off. So some olive oil goes and brown, that would just take a couple So I'll put that on a medium heat. You fire pit, on a barbecue, you know the those beautiful spices come out and then Bay leaf, a little bit of oregano, a little much flavour. it. That's the beginning of the veggies. that goes in. So good. Okay, garlic. I'm taking a chilli. Take the stalk off and use a teaspoon if you just scrape those That is where most of the heat is. We off. be a nice warm juicy sort of hug of like that kinda just gets the vibes going. We like that put that straight in. We definitely want to soften the veggies but we don't want everything keep moving it around. Now Don't go buying the hard ones that don't do taste. Look at the colours guys. is just a little swig of water. You don't Okay we want to kind of stop that, and we simmering away, blipping away sort of coming out the tomatoes now, it's getting pepper, not salt. There's salt in the sausages so we don't over season it and also balsamic vinegar. Really, really nice it's tablespoon goes in. Toss this up. Wow. herbs put a bit of oil on it, spray it optimistic and wonderful and summery the oven for about 25 minutes. Not too 350 degrees Fahrenheit. And that's just flavours are going to mix up and be And when that's ready I'm gonna serve it this. Ooh! It's looking gorgeous and cooked linguini here. You can do with any a big old platter. Go in with that sweet, sour, spicy. I love this. Now cheese the flavours. So I've got three options, go for salted ricotta but use any one of favourite pastas. Beautiful spicy sausage tell them you love them. you they love you too because that is A great summer pasta dish the flavour coming through. We're getting spices, Me and Gennaro are gonna give with a vodka and lemon arrabiata sauce. Arrabiata sauce amazing. You're gonna angry. You've got chilli spice with spaghetti. But with lemon and vodka, next level. full of flavour. That's all. tablespoons of olive oil, extra virgin chillies that have been halved and deseeded and we're gonna put the chilies in here. Gennaro's got four cloves of garlic, that in here too and this is gonna be lovely Sicilian lemon, or try and get an unwaxed lemon if you can. Or wash another lemon. And I'm just gonna put the zest in Smell that, it's gonna smell like home. This reminds me home, reminds me Amalfi coast, remind my home town, remind me the family friend, everything. So very gentle frying, and now we're gonna go in with the vodka. Wowa! About three shots. We're gonna that. And you don't have to flame it, actually it's lovely to have a little bit of heat there. You don't have to flame it but you are gonna get a more caramelised flavour. But when the little bit of anchovy can go in. Four. do is they'll beautifully seasoned simmer away. So we're gonna put that on that away at this stage when it's breaking down the tomatoes. And look come my little, come on kids. I've just lightly broken up the tomatoes and see that the chilies are still whole. You can keep the take them out. Anyway you like. It's in your We have a little season. With salt. It's toss it with loads of hot steaming oil at the end. Lovely parsley goes in and then a little bit of lemon juice. Right kids behave. I I'm literally using the parmesan as a Wonderful simple honest recipe. This is And maybe just a little brush of arrabiata sauce with spaghetti. Simple vodka away so even that lot could have Anyway this is just for me and Gennaro. got Gennaro? Oh one, two, three, four, five, Lovely arrabbiata with a- I've got five. such a beautiful dish, so simple. Let's just, let's just, let's just tuck in. Do you mind if I tuck in, Gennaro? I love it. Can I try some? So good. Do you want some Petal? We're gonna cook some freshly made linguine. but you could use some dried, no problem. And I'm going to do some garlic, some chilli. We've got our langoustines here and our Off we go. Three minutes that's what we're Gennaro's got some dried chilli to get slice some garlic. We're gonna use delicious. A little shake of white wine those lovely energetic pastas that you You've got your chillies, you've got the here these are langoustines which are straight through the half like that and there. Now once you get in there we can take this little sort of sack out here, completely edible just a little bit of more get that back in the oven. So that is - the tomato - the base right. We've got the traditional cherries here. So as it throw it around. This is half cooked now and then we can go in with the tomatoes just like that so very The seafood will be perfectly cooked and and softened. So back in the oven we go. Yes. I'll finely sliced the stalks and I'll stalks don't throw them away they're them. And then what we can do is add just all, just a tiny little drizzle goes in the juice coming out of the tomatoes. seasoning it by throwing it. Oh. Look at that. Look at that. Yes. So we've got some boiling salted water here and of course if you're using linguine from we'll just put a little lid on get that minute to cook. Look at that. This is a dream. This is a dream! It's ready. You're gonna see him take the linguine and the waters gonna drip into here. And at the same time I'm gonna add a little bit more the oil and the hot water and the juices prawns, it's all gonna come together to There's one. This is so good. Come on, you can do it. Yes yes yes yes That's what we're talking about a quick Delicious. Very good. Delicious. You get the sweetness from the tomatoes but also you get the flavour really quickly from the shell of the meat. That's so sweet. Oh my god. tonight. Prawn and langoustine linguini and a lot love. Ciao! I gonna make one of What is cacio? Cacio is cheese, and black pepper. So two ingredients. You look at home what do you have in the cupboard? You must have a little Parmesan cheese and the one I make is with pecorino, because some peppers inside. This is a very Roman dish. It's a very very old dish. So the pasta is boiling. And let me show you how simple it is bowl on a plate like this. Grate the Or pecorino is the one original recipe. for about a couple of people. You can see, come on. And see that is Little bit of black pepper inside. Abundance of black pepper because that is where we give you the flavour. Love it. Mix a little bit. You can see, look at that. Two ingredient, maximum flavour. Then you have look the pasta if it's ready. Oh yes it is ready. Sorry I have to Mmm it's al dente perfect. So you pick it up. Easy. Extremely easy. Just put it inside. Come on, look at that. It's spaghetti you can see the people understand about pasta. They can see it's a proper al dente. It's not, you know, flat, which they're soft. You just put everything inside. I love it. I just love it. Put them on top. Then you need two forks to mix it. Yes. Now this is where it comes to the best. bit of the pasta water. Just a little bit more. Just a little bit more. Then again you mix it to get a creamy out. Mix it. Right at that. That this is what I'm You know catching all the cheese it's done. So now, a little bit more cheese on top. Oh yeah! Come on, bundles of cheese. I love it. I love Just like this. it. Little bit of black paper, a little bit more. Grab a nice fork and buon appetito. Oh yes this is for me. Oh my goodness me. Yeah, wish you could taste it. You can taste it. Two ingredients, maximum flavour, do it. Be adventurous. It's not, it's a simples. Hallelujah. Arrivederci. Lovely people we are gonna make the a recipe for you that's gonna blow your You interested? Let's do this. First up a Finely slice three of these onions as minutes to make these onions goes sweet every now and again. Beautiful. So after shrunk back down it's lightly golden. So that's our thickening agent to turn our that will immediately suck up all of the got a litre of milk. So slowly slowly absorbed we'll add some more. So the rest that simmer while we cook the pasta so gonna cook this for five minutes. I want simmer while we get on to the other comes to choosing the cheese you could do it my style right. I want that balance stringiness, ooziness. A hundred grams of good melter. Then we're gonna go to a really stringy gorgeous cheese. So this is a raclette Gruyere. 100 grams goes in like that and side and parmesan just has that amazing make sense. Now let's just talk about it is one of the most beautiful things it's a brilliant carrier of seasonal bang, amazing. Getting asparagus in there, we're keeping it really simple, and this this pasta water and steal some of this later. We've only half cooked the pasta and there's good reason for that because cooking it's sucking up that flavor not back just a little bit for on top later. A teaspoon of English mustard gives it an amazing colour and gentle heat. A they swore by and I tried it and I did wouldn't work, and it did. Mango chutney, 1 We're gonna add a little bit of this silkiness. So it's really important to do boiling cheese. At this point in a story little toss up. I'm excited. And I forgot sauce, a good couple of little swigs in take this gorgeous silky pasta-y goodness. Look at that. So that goes in the oven for half an Fahrenheit. Now what I want to do to make cheesy gorgeousness. So we're going to What's not to love? As it starts to get the breadcrumbs in, and these flavoured pasta dish, even lovely stews. Amazing. These breadcrumbs have gone golden and crunchy. They smell that. Come on! Mac and cheese beautifulness. Crack. Oh come on you know it makes sense. ultimate smoky bacon. Crispy bits. Enough talking let's just eat it. That's what we want. Nice cheesy bits. Mmm like the depth of One of the things I like to do which is vulnerable empty gem lettuce leaf and actually do this at home and my kids are looking at me going &quot;You are such an idiot&quot;, but then when they try it they realise that I'm a missionary through mac and cheese. Don't judge me. Okay you lovely people we are gonna make veggie bolognese. This is from my new We've taken one of the most classic we've made it veggie. It's really three of your five fruit and veg a day wonderful ways to get your protein really handy in modern day life. So look onions, two cloves of garlic. I'm using 20 only sort of ingredient you've got to supermarkets and this gives you the body delicious meal. So a couple of that on a medium heat. Celery, nice and here and two sprigs of rosemary, finely This is a rustic peasant dish and it's using red onions you can use white if on a medium heat and I'm gonna put a lid just sort of slowly sweat that off Before I kind of disappear I'm just very savoury it's got a real deep 20 minutes now and it's just frying away up a little bit. Hundred mls of Chianti let it cook away. So while that's frying They can go in now let's just roughly rehydrated now. It's only 20 grams guys with the broth now guys. We're ending the little bits of grit. Discard that. We're those up and they'll fall apart as they boiling water in each tin. Just swill it they're brilliant they absorb flavour to break up some of those tomatoes and sort of medium. And I'm gonna let that about 30 minutes, and then I'll show you taste. This is your opportunity to have a can put a little parsley through this wanted to, you can mix it up, or lovely pan next to it I have some pasta. 80 white pasta spaghetti to whole wheat whole wheat products. More B vitamins so is steal a little bit of water. I'm just be nice and loose so it just catches the had it's sort of eight minutes now it's pasta and just keep a little bit of that in a minute. So I'm just gonna do a Just mix it up. Parmesan. 15 grams or so. the lovely flavours together. Now it's and a bit claggy, and that's not cool. So water and that's going to keep it nice this up. And before all the veggies start not vegetarian, this is actually a cheese vegetarian rennet and it's very similar the lovely veggie bolognese. Get in there. Mmm really good. Sort of slightly smoky Sweet from the tomatoes and you got all the lentils to be that kind of ragout-y a go. Super healthy and super delicious, it's all about. Pasta is an ultimate comfort food and Teaming it up with a sauce celebrating spiked with garlic, basil and chilli, it's Really healthy, and it's all about loving the aubergine like that. Just get rid of in half and crisscross the flesh 20-25 minutes of good steaming is all we incredibly creamy and silky and elegant chillies but prick them first to stop them pine nuts. This is a vegetarian dish but we're getting it from the ricotta, the badly pound them up so you get some you get some kind of mush as well. And sprinkle at the end with a little look and taste incredible. Finely slice grams worth of basil leaves from the is going to go into the base of my sauce stalks that you get that you don't get tablespoon of oil in a pan. Let's put in gonna go very quickly in with two tins tomatoes in, refill the tins with water, the boil. break up those tomatoes with the spoon, gentler medium heat. Let that bubble away And I'm gonna use the water that's been wheat to ramp up the fibre. Let's check kind of feel already that they're pull the chilies out, they're gonna be end off, use the tip of the knife and You can see how tender it is. You can open skin and the flesh just separate and we rid of all the seeds. So that's the is the fruit, so if you see how steam it. Absolutely beautiful. Next finely slice the chilli and add to the pan. Stir that beautiful chilli in and what you can do to speed up the texture just use a potato masher to just squash the little feel of the aubergine. You want it it. Yeah that's exactly what we want. simmer this. Let it all cook into each be beautiful. minutes. So it's looking good. Let's drain ricotta, it's a very very light cheese. can see it's bright and delicate and with the basil. I love the way the So gently does it. look if you're happy to give it a toss of cover yourself with it but that's platter. Pour that lovely sauce over. It's Scatter with more bright punchy basil. then a light brush of parmesan from a friends is one of my favourite pastas is a super food classic pasta dish. dairy, protein, carbohydrates and your veg, Let's have a go. Mmm the aubergine is silky chilli is really really good. really really good. Little side salad, and