Fever feels bad. So we take medication It turns out fever is one of the oldest defenses it make your immune defense stronger The Heat of Life On earth life is able to thrive between pools and 120degC in thermal vents. Step outside has a temperature range that is ideal and one Your ideal temperature is where your cells is the most efficient and the animal as Humans are warm blooded animals and our bodies or 98.6 degF. Which seems wasteful, but this temperature makes us almost entirely immune Fungi. Most colder animals and their insides Which brings us to fever. For any microbe that want to conquer. Fever is defensive climate change range and making the world horrible. It evolved most animals increase their core Fish swim into warmer waters, heat up the air inside their hive. you have way more drastic options. Let's When Your Blood Turns Into Lava You're invaded by bacteria and viruses at you need to slow it down as fast as possible. triggered by a diverse group "The creators of heat". They float away from where specialized receptors pick them up First you begin to shiver. Your skeletal muscles heat in your core. At the same time usually the prevent heat from escaping through your skin. Fever is a systemic, body wide response and You burn about 10% more calories to stay body temperature rises. Fever is also to save energy and give your Back to the battlefield: When the bacteria entered have switched into high production mode. Their means they need a lot of resources and are highly a succulent chinese meal and giving birth. The So your immune system tries to stress them out which floods the battlefield with fluids, attack proteins and soldiers. Pretty For the bacteria a moment ago the now the world burns! Heat can cause their damage their DNA and diminish protein production. Why doesn't this affect your cells? It does! Virtually every system and organ of your Your immune system. Neutrophils are recruited better at devouring enemies, Killer Cells your immune cells to gobble up the critical glucose and glutamine, turning the The viruses that infected millions of cells are doing even worse because they are also The rhinovirus that causes the common tract because it is significantly colder than The heat is also really bad for the millions at this point. They are working super hard As the heat becomes too much to bear, the machinery is breaking and failing they quickly or HSPs, that start repairs, keeping them alive. But this is a trap. Even your healthy cells produce HSPs to deal with this means it is more stressed than it something is wrong and it should be killed. So activated and attracted by HSPs and start inside them. By trying to protect themselves, But if fever is such an effective weapon, why don't your enemies adapt to it? How is it after hundreds of millions of years? A wild reason If your enemies survive fever long them. The individuals that are better suited to they have adapted. But this becomes to infect new victims in new bodies, and Not impossible to infect, just harder. And with their cousins that like it colder hosts. This creates an evolutionary To circumvent this, serious pathogens like replicates ultra fast and is the most infectious It's brutally beaten back once your full immune Fever is an effective part of helping to attack and stress your possible. But if fever is so great, Should you Fight Fever with Medications We think it is normal to have magic over the counter pain medication like Aspirin or in the last century or so. Going to a pharmacy to in human history. Pain feels bad, so we've If you are sick, you're supposed to feel a reasonable This is not a bug but a feature of your immune and over the counter pain medication like Especially in children fever is often suppressed they think fever itself is the disease or they In general it's fair to say that for temperatures and doesn't need to be treated. that should not have fever - like pregnant patients. For them the extra stress may be anybody because it's most likely caused Things get more complicated We also have evidence that for or chickenpox antifever drugs But we are also running that make clinical trials difficult. In one critical care patients - but had to stop strong indications that more people may survive And there is very little clinical to better health outcomes. But like neurological injuries and stroke. So should you fight fever? Well, speak to videos. But this decision is really about high and you can bear it, you are supporting faster. But if you feel really bad taking a pill against pain and fever at the cost of a slightly However you decide, the next time you can rest easy in the knowledge that your It's thanks to doctors and researchers doing our part by bringing them to a positive difference in the Today's sponsor, 80,000 Hours, can help you career advice organization that wants to help lot of good in the world. And their advice is Like us, they care a lot about making sure their consultation with experts. So they've spent the into topics like 'how much impact can one best ways to make a positive difference following a well-known career path isn't your only be many paths that make an even bigger difference The time you'll spend on your career is an impact. If you want to make the most of it, their in-depth career guide sent to your inbox