These are tiny gadgets that actually work. Like the world's smallest Or a tiny game console that Or tiny nerf guns that actually shoot. This Nerf gun is about 100 times Look how tiny this bullet is. But all the mechanisms still work. Let's cock it back and test the power. My goal today is to test The next gadget is a tiny Atari Game console that I'll be who's good at handling small things. This is Atari 2600. This actually has nine playable games. Oh. Oh, it really turned on. Oh, my gosh. Hey, that's smooth actually. this is working pretty well. Oh, we got Pac man. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I feel like I need a I can't go up. Oh, that ghost was glitching. for how small it is. The joystick is incredibly responsive. Think about this. The fact that this can play the same games and it's super portable, You know what? Eh for travel? Yeah, yeah. Smaller is better. This is the world's tiniest blender. Everything charges by USB. Let's just see if it even turns on. Not bad. The one thing that I'm noticing, is that there are no blades in this. Yeah. Let's see if we can make Just go full power. Turn it alone. Oh. it's working. I think it's more so shaking the It's like a centrifuge, I think. Yeah. Let's take a look at our smoothie. How's it smell? it's exactly the same as before. It's more of a mixer If we put some, matcha powder in here, Let's see if this will work. Okay, sure. That's actually kind of working. It's working, I think, so far. All right, I'll try anything. I mean, this isn't bad at all. I can drink a whole glass of this, No. So let's see if the big blender Yo. I am not sitting at this table. Holy crap. In this case, I think bigger is better. true Our next product is a mini desk vacuum. This is convenient because we have From the blender, Pretty simple. Oh, oh, wait. It's a robot. Like, it moves around. I don't know. Oh, it has eyes. It has brushes at the bottom. Does it not spin? I think this is just to like, but let's try it. I'm gonna have another. This sounds more like a This is cleaning up pretty well, actually. I mean, Yeah, it's not... It's not able to pick up huge pieces. Whoa. Definitely doesn't work but it's still working. Now let's open it up and see what kind of stuff we collected. Whoa. This is all the dirt we collected. It's, like, actually quite a lot. That's not bad. Especially because, if you're only using this for your desk, you don't have too much Anyway. It is cute. It has eyes. Yeah. In this case, we like it smaller. This is one of the world's smallest drones. It's called the Sky Viper dash nanodrome. Made for indoor flying wind. It's about the size of a dragonfly. The fact that they're in such a compact package, I know it's smaller than the remote. It's like, and then they just like, that's it. We're done. Screw it There's an on button there. Oh, shit. Right into the camera. Oh, I think we should go outside. Oh, shoot We got a little bit more space here. Let's try this again. All right. That's not bad. It's cool. It's very stable. Oh, my gosh. It's not bad. It's kind of like a. Like a video game. It listens. The controls are pretty nice. Also, it has a sport mode. Let's see how fast it can go. Whoa. Oh, dude. That was crazy. All right. Tiny drone. Really good. That was really good. I felt enough control with this I get enough practice in, I could swerve through, tiny little crevices and stuff like that. That can be super sick. For fun, smaller is better. This is a tiny keyboard. It has all the standard keys, And it has a track pad as well. Over here. Yeah, that's cool. It can also work as a remote Over here, the main use for this is supposed to be, when you're watching tv, sitting on the couch. But how fast can we type Let's try to compare it Landon, you're going to be using a Listen to the sound of this, and then I'll be using this keyboard. Here we go, Joy. Whoa. What's it, two oh caps. Shoots. How am I, like, catching up to you, bro? I don't know about the Ground. Are you done? All right... That's not bad. I got a word per minute of 16, and you got 31. Which means I was able to type about True This is a really good all in one keyboard. I would give this a seven out of ten. I'd give it an eight out of ten. I would totally use this. I actually think I'm gonna get one. Perfect. Smaller is better. Next, This is by wakako mini preso. I have some ground coffee here, Here we go. This is a water holder, and you just pour in some hot water here. And then here's the magic. Oh it's a little pump. Oh, there we go. Oh, yeah. Makes a satisfying noise. So, how it works is it's and it's squeezing out the water into the coffee, and then it's being filtered down This is different from normal brewed and that's what makes Wow. Let's see. It smells great. dude. That's kind of crazy. This tastes great. Yeah, it's good? Yeah. Whoa. Imagine you're in the Oh, yeah. I would be so happy drinking this. I think this is better. I love this product. I give this a nine out of ten. I do, too. I agree. Nine out of ten, for sure. Next, we have a tiny wireless speaker. This is basically the same This is rechargeable with micro usb, 68 grams. Dang. Wait, let me see. Oh, wow. It's nice. It's dense for the size, but it's not. It's not heavy. It's compatible with bluetooth, So what's turning on here? Ooh, that was fast. It's pretty loud. I mean, yeah. for how small this is. So, Why would you rate this? Not too bad in the highs. I'm not gonna lie. The highs. And the mids are kind of Zero bass. Okay, now let's disconnect and hear the The phone has bass... It's not a lot, but it's there. The phone sounds better, actually. The phone sounds better. Let's actually go. Compare it to a real speaker. Yeah, I say so. The tiny speaker is $3. This bad boy is $20. 1212 hundred. Does it give us 400 times the sound? I'm pretty confident. Okay, let's go. This huge speaker just turned our whole. House into a club, whereas this thing... did nothing. No, I would say this thing is definitely more than a thousand of I don't even know. No, this has no bass at all. I can feel my whole body This is definitely worth 400 times the So in this case, bigger is a lot better. This is the world's smallest wacky waver. You know those car dealerships, the little. Like, balloon thing in front the air dancing people? Yeah. This is a tiny desktop version, and it says it stands This has a little blower at the bottom. And our little guy kind of looks like you Hafu. It does, right? With the little red? Mm hmm. See, Gotcha. Sure. Okay. Yeah, it's not this. Okay, sure. Yeah, whatever they say. Oh, my gosh. It moves by itself as well. Oh, wait, what happened? You got burnt? Yo, that thing's hot. I think bigger is better This whole thing is all about size. I mean, you want people to see it, Yeah, true. This is the world's tiniest voice changer. With different type of voices. So Landon is known for his talkbox, The setup is definitely a lot more Hello. Very true. Hello. Hey. I think this could pass for a girl. Let's try the robot voice. Hello. Like a man. This is a little different. I don't know what this one is. Yeah, what does it say? It just says 1234. So this is the most Let's try the real deal. Let's do it. Okay. Hello. Yeah, so this right here is a talk box. This synthesizer plugs into the talk box, But anyways, this. All the sound from this synthesizer goes and it comes out of here. So it sounds like this. The reason you put it in your mouth is you don't actually talk. What's up Hafu yeah With your mouth, you're making... the shape of the words, but you're not speaking. Exactly. You're mouthing the words so you But if I go. wow, wow, wow, wow, whoa. That's so cool. So this is basically Exactly. We're testing all those tiny gadgets. Well, yeah. we are testing out those tiny gadgets tonight. I just wanna take you home They kinda crushed pretty good, eh? I can still hear my own So the real thing is so much better I agree. Subscribe to Hafu Go. do it. This is the world's tiniest 3d printer an actual tiny 3d printer by bambu Lab. And right next to it is the the bambulab. A one mini only cost $199, So it's ten times the price. So let's run a bunch of print Since I'm new to 3d printing and I'm just going to go to makerworld.com So let's first try printing a dragon. I'm going to load up the same file but on the small one, I'll just scale it down To be completely honest with you, 3d printing is one of those hobbies but it just seems so complicated and so But these bambu lab printers I just had to unbox, and it basically set up itself. Dude, these are amazing. You can't even tell the difference To do was press start. This is pretty cool. I also printed a pew pew that has a And I printed a CSGO karambit knife. And recently I installed these and I was trying to buy and it ended up totaling to With these 3d printers, I can just print the accessories I printed shelves and hooks and they're equally as strong. So I basically paid back So next, let's try to print something Here we have a wireless charger Basically, they ship you the internal electronic And I got this for free in my 3d printer. So after two days, I finally finished printing printed wireless charger. All right, let's test it out. Here we go. Oh, it charges and it moves. Honestly, I've been pretty obsessed. Like every night before I go to bed, I try to 3d print something so I can wake Judging by all the print the a one mini here is almost X1C that costs ten times more. I mean, if you want the more advanced the faster print speeds and the But I think for a beginner who's no idea how to 3d print like me, the a1 mini here is a great gateway To be honest with you, I've been so obsessed with 3d printing this video and they said yes. So if you want to get into 3d printing, right now is the best time because Bamboo the year on October 21 to December 3. Click the link in the description to get the biggest deals of the year. I didn't tell them this, Browse Bamboo Lab's website and comment and they'll pick a random The winner will be announced Now on to the next gadget. Next we have the world's smallest tv. The remote is almost And I like how they made So you can see, you can see all the parts. So this tv connects to your devices up to 8gb of movies onto this. So that's about like three movies you can That's not bad at all. It's in my fingernails, Oh my God. The remote can turn the tv on. Can you see that? That's a Hafu Go video right there. This is actually really cool. So this tiny tv has a When you transfer stuff, it doesn't need to be the highest As a kid, if you're not able to bring your phone you can bring this tv and watch a movie. Yeah, like, So that's why I think this is better. I kind of agree. I mean, I don't know, Yeah. Next, we have the world's smallest bop it. Interesting story, actually. I met the bopit inventor. Really? Yeah. I have a short phone Bop it has sold over 40 million copies. That's the Bop It inventor back there, His name is Dan Klitsner So this is actually the Really? So this is like the bop it these days See if it works . solo. I miss the sound. Bop it. Twist it. Yeah. Hafu, hafu, hafu, hafu. If you didn't know this is the Bop. This is actually the See, this is the pulling part. Twist it. Yeah, you suck. I don't think this thing works. So it gets faster. Twist it. So this is a modern day. Bop it almost Solo. Don't even, like, recognize. It doesn't even look the same nowadays. I know. Bop it to start. Bop it, pull it, pull it. I think we get the point, honestly. I like the smaller one better. I think I do, too. You can put the small. Bop it in your pocket, Yeah. Yeah, you can. You can bop it. You can twist it. Yeah, you can pull it. You can twist it. Yeah, they get it. Next we have the world's Small stuff, big fun. It's a pretty simple design, actually. It has one button for the flashlight, you don't get light here. So there's an adjustment here that Take a look at a strawberry. All right, what do you see? Oh, my gosh. That is disgusting. Look, there's hair on the strawberry. No, there's not. Oh, what the heck? He has an afro. Let's take a look at a leaf. Over here. Oh, my gosh. There are specks of metal, The leaf is sweating. Oh, whoa. Yeah, it does look like metal. Wait, can you see it on the. Hmm. You can see the individual Watch. Let's look at our. Whoa. You can see the fingerprints. That actually looks really cool. I want to examine the hair. Oh, yo, that looks. Ew. This is good. This is good. If you have acne, I'm gonna try the nose. Oh, my gosh. You can see the whiteheads on your nose. Yo, I wish this zoomed in but for the size, It's useful, yeah, because, you can't just go around like, Next we have a mini camera. This is about one 50th the size of a normal camera. Apparently, it takes 1080p video. This camera has a micro sd and you can charge it through micro USB. Oh, there you go. No way. Oh, look at that. That's a selfie quality right there. Oh, wow. You know what? It has a little bit more This could be, like, a good spy camera. It's kind of, like, similar to the DJI action camera... Where, it comes in, a little pill. Yeah, it could be. You could put this, in unique places, and then you could get angles This is a normal sony camera. You can tell this is It's like, about, like. It looks like a camera attachment. Honestly, imagine if I just recorded all I think we should. Hey, what's up, guys? Today we're reading tiny gadget, and right now you're seeing Let's take a look at the video. We are taking a video of. Oh, my gosh, the mic. That's kind of really good. Yeah. Honestly, I'm kind of impressed. Fine, by the quality of the microphone. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll give it eight out of ten. Give it eight out of ten. No, no, no. I'm gonna give it seven. Is it better than the real thing? Definitely not. But did it exceed my expectations? Yes. Yeah, for sure. This is the world's smallest solar powered car. I bought it off of a chinese website. It looks like a little beado. Look at that. There's a solar panel at the top. Smallest solar panel I've ever seen. And there's a motor at the back, so you can drift. It looks rear wheel drive right now. It doesn't really move on its own. I'm actually kind of Wait, I want to see if my. Flash makes it work. Oh, it moved. Did it move or did you move it. We're now in the glaring sun. Let's see if this actually works. Look in the shadow. It doesn't run. And then as soon as I move. This is actually really cool because it reacts to my shadow. Let's see if I can go uphill. Yo, yo. It's crazy. I'm just genuinely impressed. No, I am too. Is this better than Honestly? I think so, because this seems to And if I could go forever in a solar powered car, I would buy one. Usually on electric cars, the solar panels are a scam like, Whereas this could go 3 miles, a billion miles. On its own, it seems like it. Yeah, exactly. I would say I would get one. I think it's worth it. It's definitely better. This is the world's It has a SIm tray, so you can actually send but you can't run any apps. So inside this box, smartphone. This is basically like an iPhone. Whoa. It's like an iPhone three. Yeah. Like a 3G. Ooh. Oh, that's so satisfying... Ooh. Just judging by the UI, This is the size of this phone compared to a real iPhone, like a fourth of the size. We actually have a SIM card in this. Oh, really? So it can actually take calls, but it also has all the Let's see if YouTube works right here. It's a little bit slow using science. I mean. Whoa. The fact that it even works. Yeah, true. Oh, my gosh. I could have, six of these in my pocket. Let's test out the camera Dang. Out here in the studio, you know what it is? Click, like, subscribe, and you can even play games. It's a little bit slow. Oh, oh. Once we load up the game, actually. The price point, it's $50. I think it does $50 worth of things. But you might be able to find An old one. That's true. The most importantly, we gotta test. Can I make a call? Okay, that isn't pretty important on a phone. Hey, can you hear me? I can hear you pretty good. Wait, I'm gonna go outside real quick. I think the signal should Can you hear me? Oh, yeah, you sound. You sound pretty dang clear. Wow. This is amazing. Dude, that was great. I am genuinely shocked how well this tiny little thing works. Honestly, today I learned the size doesn't matter. What do you think? Yeah, I mean, They can do the craziest like supplies and the smallest chips. It's pretty crazy. Honestly. You can probably fit all the gadgets Let me know in the comments below. True. If you think smaller is better. Click here to watch another video. And click here to watch a video Subscribe.