Our first guest is an incredible than life personality. Please welcome the seven-time the one, the only Dolly Parton. [CHEERING] Hello, everybody! Hello, Ellen. Whoops. Well, hello, Dolly. I just popped my top. But it's all right. That's probably No, it's not. [LAUGHTER] Now, it's OK? Do we need to do anything? No, it's all right. All right. I showed more than that. I'll fix it at a commercial. But anyway, it's OK. This is tight. All right. You had a hilarious when you said that there's malfunction with you because-- Oh, I said because I'll probably [LAUGHTER] But I can tell you this. If there is a malfunction, you It'll be more like a hula hoop. [LAUGHTER] There's a lot of strain Yeah. But I'm glad to see you. You look great. Thank you. Now, and you're not ashamed to Yes, I am. You're-- it's amazing. [CHEERING] I've been around a long time. And I've enjoyed And how-- I mean, I'm 46. But I feel like-- now I mean, you look so good. What do you do? Do you work out? What do you do? Well, it ain't cheap. I just look cheap. But just a lot of good a lot of good makeup. so I-- No, this is not makeup. You have great legs. You do something. This is not-- Thank you. I don't really I'm not really physical. No, I'm just-- I just kind Yeah, but when you I'm a cartoon. I'm a cartoon. So it's almost easy I'll look this way probably But you didn't always-- you didn't always look this way. You lost a lot of weight. You must have done something. Well, I was-- in my early years, But I did go from when until I was about 45, I guess, because I'm just a big old hog. Inside of me, there's a-- I mean, I'm a country girl. All the foods I love And I gained a lot of weight. But I couldn't stand it. I hated myself and I was that heavy. So I just had to I just eat-- I did everything to get But now I just kind of eat I really like. The same things, though, you and all that stuff. No, I love everything. And that's why I had trouble. I'm just a big eater. But anyhow, thank God I But I just-- it's kind of-- I look at myself like kind of like a show I have to kind of keep and whatever. Whatever I'm going to present, it's like I just kind of-- Let me know when you're All right, so-- and then what-- you said that you look Did you have some kind of idol? Did you go, this is And I'm going to-- I'm aiming for this look? When I was young? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, actually, and I've but it's the honest truth. There was this woman-- I grew up, first of all, And we only got to go to But every time we would, was the town trash, whore. But I thought she was beautiful. I didn't know what And I would just see this woman on her head and red nails, high heeled shoes. And I thought she was the And I used to say to my Mama say, oh, she's just trash. And I thought to I want to be when because I felt that was a And I thought that was Right. So I grew up to [CHEERING] Does she know that? I mean is she still around. No, she was probably-- I was just little. I'm sure she's not around. But I've never said her name But she might not She just might She might have just Maybe she thought to look because I know girls, that's the way you I mean you-- or I mean, We had nothing. Right. And I used to put merthiolate I used to paint my eyebrows I was going-- well, I mean like then you lick them. And then they dye. They put stuff on you. And pokeberries in the summer, dye, it makes like a have a little rouge. And so you'll figure it Yeah, well. You're like a makeup You're jonesing and you're just like needing It's true. But that's actually a to put makeup on, It is. But I actually could do it. And my daddy hated-- my grandpa was a Pentecostal fire, brimstone. And he thought I was Jezebel. They thought I was going They thought I was running And I thought, no, ain't no because I don't want or smear my lipstick. We were just chatting We do have a lot in common. We both sleep in our makeup. Now, is that true? You really do sleep It's really true. Somebody asked me that Well, it's when I because of the earthquakes and when I'm in New staying like in these And I think, I always sleep by the bed. And I always keep my makeup to get down the fire escape. Sure, yeah. But it's true. When I'm in the big city, Everybody else is going to they can find. Well, there's the trash whore. She made it out. [LAUGHTER] All done up at 4:00 And have you been, so far, in an earthquake? Yes, I've been in every That's why I know OK. Because it's scary. That is the worst You've been in them, right? I have. And I'm from New Orleans. So the first time it a truck was passing outside. And it was just-- I was used to my apartment Being brought up in that I thought it was It was doomsday and I just started praying and asking forgiveness Right. --for everything I've done. So I could just-- Go right back to your I'm pretty sure Yeah.