Hi! Welcome to my YouTube channel! My name is Detail Detective, and I'm here terrible in my five-part video: This Children's Part One: The Plot. So in this frame, Fairy Princess Sparkletina's of her, her sash is cerulean. Clearly, the animators do not care about consistency Not only that, but we're told she's a Why doesn't she just travel back fifty years baby? Oh, lemme guess: because she &quot;doesn't We all know what that means: Sparkletina's Fairy Princess Adventure is officially cancelled. Over the past three years, media criticism Lindsay Ellis' channel went from about to more than half a million now, Dan Olson, to more than 200,000, and scores of new video J. Williams have started popping up. Unfortunately, quantity doesn't always equal And, sadly, a lot of what passes itself off In particular, content like Cinemasins, the Nostalgia video essays dedicated to dissecting certain good. I know this is probably pretty ironic coming about certain TV shows for a living. Especially because I, too, like to use attention-grabbing to watch my videos. And it's very possible that some of my own going to talk about here! I mean... I'd like to think the stuff I make is... not discounting the possibility that it isn't Along a similar vein, I'm also not saying that the bad people. Just that the content they create isn't What I primarily want to talk about is bad-faith ultimately harmful to the- in my opinion, So first of all, how did we get here? Criticisms of various films, TV shows, games, In fact, they've existed ever since the And if you follow any history of YouTube, Nerd as one of the first YouTube content creators of mainstream YouTube. In 2006, shortly after YouTube was created, would play this easily angered, bitter guy And this is an interesting case; this is a playing a character. In these videos, the Nerd was the butt of pathetic guy getting overly offended about old video games. But a strange thing started happening: people took They liked him. Pretty soon, Rolfe started making serious opinions. Not only that, but other YouTubers quickly so far as steal specific jokes and criticisms I won't talk about this too much, mainly If you haven't seen it already, a YouTuber video about the Angry Video Game Nerd's link it below. A year later, a similar creator ostensibly the Nostalgia Critic, surfaced. His videos were similarly focused on getting main difference being that he primarily focused Once again, a similar theme started to surface. He initially chose to really separate himself Nostalgia Critic" was a pathetic nerd who But, as his content became more and more popular, thoughts. In fact, nowadays, he hosts content on YouTube movies for the first time and authentically And, oftentimes, his initial reactions end reviews, albeit in a more grating tone of So while we initially got these reviewers characters who you were clearly not supposed character thinks" and "what the creator you got a sort of review style that was just opinions about media, but like... with a lot And, this review style- angry man screams YouTube for a long time. That's not to say that channels based on didn't exist. You did have some similar channels who were analytical content... I mean, Lindsay Ellis started making videos level as her videos today. But, with a few notable exceptions like Beyond ones receiving the most clout. Rather, critics who were the most popular Dude mold, and aspiring critics mostly imitated YouTube's increase in popularity, especially in the diversity of review content. This is when a lot of channels who are now Among others, Cinemasins, Screenrant, Ralph regularly uploading reviews, all using different Some of these worked, and some of these did not. While the Angry Screaming Dude style of content rise in formats like "two or three people or "stylized reviews with original music And one particular format that's recently It's hard to say exactly who was the "first" first YouTube videos that functioned as formalized being reviewed weren't yet calling themselves With that said, one of the earliest very popular was the Nerdwriter. Although his first video upload was over seven unscripted vlogs where he discussed his thoughts Iraq War. Around late 2013, he started transitioning facecam format without any supplementary materials Then, in May 2014, he made a video called in which he discussed various comic book movies From that moment on, all of his videos began The Nerdwriter now has nearly two and a half days. Another YouTube channel, Every Frame A Painting, time. The channel was created by two friends, Taylor Their first video, analyzing the 2009 film began incorporating music by May. These videos focused primarily on the technical to visually portray text messages on screen, Although their last video was posted in September end to their channel, the format popularized and Every Frame A Painting still boasts a two-year long inactivity. Although it's doubtful that these two channels video essays, they were some of the most popular From there, many channels followed the video and began creating video essays in June 2015, April 2016; this was when her channel began Ideas posted his first video essay in August in followers. Most of these essays primarily focused on techniques to achieve certain effects in film, we may not have noticed about specific films, Opera. The first really popular video essays that and explaining why certain aspects didn't Again, that's not to say she was the first one of the first to get really popular doing Now, like I said, videos explaining why certain did; we have things like Cinemasins and the But this format- an analytical one that was essay- was relatively new. Once again, this kicked off a trend of heavily one video in particular that I want Sherlock Is Garbage And Here's Why is a and leftist YouTuber hbomberguy. It's nearly two hours long, and it goes associated with the popular BBC show Sherlock. I definitely found myself disagreeing with it's a well-researched video that makes the show. Even if I don't fully agree with every criticism to engage in good faith with a show that he to say about it. The video currently has nearly 3 million videos, days of old, it's inspired several copycats. Those are less good. As far as I can find, the first use of the format originated with hbomberguy; the first Although that one actually has more views the Sherlock review came out that people really Indeed, the past year after his Sherlock video both his titling conventions and the actual of success. Two of the most popular videos imitating both two videos by a YouTuber named Lily Orchard, Garbage And Here's Why, and Steven Universe Both of these videos are similar lengths to as his, and are structured in the exact same Interesting. But I'm not here to criticize those videos the only videos that I want to talk about What I do want to do is use these videos as Critic as examples of what happens when good get so distorted that they end up doing the So now that everyone is on the same page vis of the common features associated with media One interesting thing to note about some of centred around specific types of movies or You have people who focus mainly on animated media, and people who like. On its own, there's nothing wrong with any It's a good idea to brand yourself in a interesting to you. But in the latter category, solely doing negative because of the nature of YouTube. You're probably not going to run into this But, once you get big enough that you can income- think, channels like Red Letter Media focus on things that interest you. As much as you might want to make eight videos documentary, you do need to eat, and around 3 or 4, people will probably stop watching. So, what a lot of these bigger channels do the moment. CGI Jungle Book movie is coming out? They'll make a video about the original New Avengers movie coming out? They'll talk about something Marvel. A popular movie is about to be released to We'll talk about that one. Whatever is currently relevant is what's most most revenue. Once again, there's nothing inherently wrong But, when your niche is negative reviews, specific movies, it no longer becomes about you Instead, no matter what the movie is, it's going to be negative. Even if the movie is excellent, it becomes And that often means looking for the most details end up having little to no bearing enjoyability. We're talking things like "if you pause you can tell they're using a stunt double, Movie Bad!". I see no reason to be vague. I'm mostly talking about Cinemasins here, But Cinemasins is particularly frustrating and that's mostly because the channel is extremely look at media. I won't talk about this for too long, mostly in her Beauty and the Beast review, but... the tiniest plot holes or acting obtuse about in perfect detail have become so popular that made. I mean, the guys who made The Winter Soldier they deliberately designed their movie to Which means we're seeing more and more films tiny problems and spend ages agonizing over story. We also see this with sequels and remakes that were never really problems to begin Oftentimes these aren't even real plot holes, explained to exhaustion, like "where did And the thing is... awkwardly overexplaining that kind of nitpicky criticism doesn't That's not to say that it's all reviewers' no responsibility in this situation, but the as well-substantiated criticism definitely And what Cinemasins does to kind of absolve they create is to just say that what they're I swear, some of these people think that real say literally anything and never have to explain the words "it's satire!". The idea with channels like Cinemasins, as well as Nostalgia aren't the real opinions of these people. They're playing characters, who are these You see, they tell you, you're not really This is dishonest. Part of the problem here is that we know for put out really are the genuine thoughts of Channels like Cinemasins and the Nostalgia where they just talk about the movies they character" criticisms and the "in character" Sherman from Peabody and Sherman had a sex change. [laughing] He's so young! Didn't you have a feeling? Didn't you have a feeling? I had a feeling. So Vera comes home to her daughter, who is presumably Sherman after he got a sex change. Which let's be honest, we all saw that coming. Again, it's like... the movement of this guy could be funny, it's like, they're on to something, but they're not talented. His career is on the rise, let's see if we can put a stop to that by casting him as someone who's supposed to move funny, but instead moves like a sped-up inflatable outside of a car rental! Cinemasins also often puts out wrong- it's not a stretch to understand The excuse they employ here is "oh, we put them Even if this is true... that's not good satire! Imagine if The Onion sometimes published real and just... didn't tell you which was which. And then imagine if real news sites saw how It would be bad. Basically, these channels want their opinions want to be held accountable for any mistakes So, instead of getting either real criticism satire where someone fully commits to the a point about media criticism, you get this of channels. Their points are presented with enough legitimacy opinions seriously, but they're filled with of the content is pretty bad. And because their opinions are taken seriously, Way Movies Are Made. Just to be clear, I'm not claiming that responsible for any particular movies being bad. If any one person were able to Ruin Movies, But I do think that the content these people All in all, media criticism that literally a movie or show is good or bad, and only focuses on inconsequential details, isn't particularly useful. And this is more likely to happen when you've of whatever's popular at the time. Finally, the reason this is bad is because bleeds into real life and into how real movies Whether this is the fault of the YouTubers, of each is a difficult question to answer, in good faith isn't a great starting point. So, it's not really a stretch to understand I mean, deciding before you even go see a to hate about it is just never going to make But, there are a lot of instances of &quot;&quot;&quot;&quot;problematic&quot;&quot;&quot; expressing a strongly-held opinion of theirs. For example, you have Lily Orchard's the Legend of Korra being garbage. This isn't a channel that just makes videos the most clicks; it seems like she only talks And it's clear from watching even five seconds very strongly about this particular show. Sugar, you are such a fucking creep! Jesus Christ, Rebecca, are you on fucking ambien? Do I think Rebecca Sugar is a fascist sympathizer? No. Do I blame anybody who comes to the conclusion that she is based on Steven Universe's content? No. Now, I'm going to use this Lily Orchard video as a case study to make it clear that she is by no means the I'm also not choosing Lily's video because encourage anyone else to do so. This is, unfortunately, a very popular trend I think it's a microcosm of a lot of the From the fact that her video imitates the substance, of well-made media criticism to creator, this video exemplifies many common One important thing about Lily's video, made by people with a very limited understanding is actually like. That doesn't mean you can't be a media but it does mean you should do your research to talk about it. For example, a substantial chunk of her video Steven Universe goes on extremely long hiatuses at once, which makes the show's pacing awkward. In and of itself, this is a perfectly good point, the show. But then, Lilly turns around and blames this claiming that this is somehow emblematic of their But this is just factually incorrect. The show's crew has repeatedly stated that their show, and that those decisions are entirely This video regularly performs these kinds example, Lilly blames showrunner Rebecca Sugar that many felt evoked racist imagery, despite Lamar Abrams and Hilary Florido. She then criticizes the animation, pointing and a few animation mistakes. Fair. But, she then ascribes all of the animation specifically, because Sugar draws the key If you have literally any knowledge of how the animation You just cannot blame one person for all of repeatedly singling out one person expresses anything supported by fact. Furthermore, Lily claims that Rebecca Sugar Rose Quartz being the alter-ego of supposedly to the fact that fans had theorized about Now, besides the fact that Lily seems to think intended to somehow means the show stole the happening is literally impossible if you did long it takes between an animated episode It can quite literally take over a year for acted, sent to Korea for animation, produced, airing. This means that while the episodes that hinted theories were developing, the episode revealing Lily either doesn't know this because she and does not care because the truth of the And this is a theme that's consistent throughout Lily clearly hates Rebecca Sugar, calling loathsome person", among other things. And because of Lily's personal dislike for and episodes that Sugar didn't even create In short, she's taken an unconstructive with factually incorrect evidence that she's This kind of "tear-down" video has unfortunately Instead of explaining why something didn't has devolved into a desire to definitively [softly] That was a very alliterative sentence. Failures in storytelling or animation are this is a common theme in Nostalgia Critic with personal attacks on their character. And because this media criticism is often industry and have chosen not to do any research, well-substantiated essays. Unfortunately, this illusion of authority As it turns out, as long as you speak in an background music going on, and play some clips people tend to assume you know what you're That's not to say everyone who uses this A lot of really great video essayists use I use this structure! And it's precisely the fact that people aesthetic of a well-supported essay, but their and personal attacks, that is so deeply frustrating. Now, just to be clear, everyone is entitled watch, and I'm not saying you're not allowed if you're not an expert on the entertainment On the other hand, these people frequently It's not "I don't like Steven Universe", You might be able to get away with that if evidence, like Lindsay Ellis and other video But when your video is just about trying to of providing any real analysis, it's not if it's just objectively correct. Overall, YouTube allows pretty much anyone to make videos And that's overwhelmingly a good thing, and doesn't restrict one's ability to It wouldn't be right to claim that only a living, or people working in the entertainment industry, great that more people are able to build a The downside of that is that anyone who knows can be taken seriously, even when there's I mean, if I were a casual viewer watching any research into how the animation industry when she said the show's animation was bad And when people are only interested in tearing so in a way where they frame their personal opinion a positive contribution to media criticism. It's not about thinking up ways media could people. It's just disingenuous and frustrating, attacks and misinformation. YouTube is great because anyone can make a And YouTube is terrible because anyone can want. As a whole, the nature of this website has even shaped the way TV shows and movies are There is a lot of really great work on YouTube forms of media, be it looking at the technical thinking about the real-world implications and performance. But, there is also a lot of work that doesn't instead focuses on either low-effort criticism down" art that the reviewer personally doesn't Both of these types of work are often filled be immediately obvious to a viewer. And both of these criticisms often have a lot of aesthetic present their opinions as objective fact. That is bad. Now, I know Cinemasins isn't going to stop aren't going to stop watching them either. I'm not asking anyone who watches this to But we should remember that those channels are kind of like potato chips: they're a fun snack and there's nothing wrong with easy to digest doesn't mean we should think If people can take one thing from my video, media criticism channels as well, and I've The potato chip metaphor has made me hungry, some Lindsay Ellis. Or do some more CalArts doodles. I think I may be onto something here. On top of a special thank-you to all my patrons, I would also like to specifically thank Jacob Benck and Jacob Furtado for joining my $20+ tier. Welcome. I hope the Discord server is fun.