name on a genealogical list. That of a city, whose Mesopotamian tradition the Flood. Understand by Flood this natural disaster massive floods of the Tigris and Euphrates, later taken up in the Bible. We had to wait until the 20th century for called Tell Hariri, some Bedouins are busy one of their own. Suddenly, their picks hit a block Sumerian in construction. During a routine inspection French special services officer, becomes Louvre authorities, who entrusted Andre Parrot with archaeological campaigns. Very quickly, the site revealed its identity mentioned in the royal lists of Sumer. The uncovering, shortly after, of the Palace then enemy of the famous Hamourabi of Babylon, including 0 archival documents and an astonishing 5,000-year-old history. Seventy years later, the archaeological adventure over! Mesopotamia. The word evokes distant Nebuchadnezzar, Ashurbanipal... Some vague markers of a floats in space and time, "middle", and potamos "rivers". The Greeks were the first to name the in the 20th century has shown that rivers, across the entire hydrographic basin. Wide as a delta, fertile and navigable, on this land. It also constitutes the crucible where who settled there mixed - Akkadians, Cassites, Assyrians and Arameans... Mesopotamian civilization: one of the oldest became master of water and land, developed metallurgy and the wheel. In the 3rd millennium, it accomplished one the invention of writing. From then on, she carried out the first experiments developed the first laws and the new living environments and gave birth to the renewed our knowledge of leading to Mari crosses the Syrian steppe from East located on the banks of the Euphrates. However, apart from its archaeological museum and its stage on the way to Mari. The next morning, resuming our route, we Tell Hariri is only green ribbon of orchards and cultivated fields that we truly become aware of the miracle of except a piece of river. More simply from the will and ingenuity BC. First of all, they developed an important only with long periods of drought indeed attest to the presence of canals. However, all these arrangements were the men of the region imported wood and copper and seized the power that the of weapons and tools. This is how they set up a system between the Mediterranean and the Middle East. And this is one of the essential reasons for the commercial network generated, in fact, the first within the community. Thus Mari was founded, around 2900 relay base in the transport of goods; obligatory crossing point of major economic circuits our arrival, we arrived at the It's the call of the workers! Then the procession of actors in the rebirth wheelbarrows. Yesterday as today, the tell hides its vanished ruins is mixed with the emotion aroused distant as it is resounding. Here we are in the heart of an urban district, the Understand the architectural organization of the primitive city. The task requires patience and determination, for cities, stacked on top of each other. This sector was chosen because Andre ground on which we are located, that is to say around 2650, 2350 approximately. which was the objective... two deep surveys were So the goal now is to determine extension in order to understand the Archaeological stratigraphy is the study of layers of which have been superimposed over time. Thus the upper layers correspond intermediate ones contain the remains those of city 1, the oldest. Let us then imagine that the winds rise and of hindrance.... Mari was just born on the one go by political will, it is delimited by a dike 1.9 km in diameter. While this protects the city from the floods human attacks. The center and the periphery communicate via by secondary streets. Finally, an artificial canal 30 m the city and ensures its water supply the city becomes denser. The center is covered with administrative and spectacular proportions unequaled in Mesopotamia. The newcomers also developed an The latter flow from the center towards the secondary streets, thanks to their subsoil filled with ashy earth. Around 2250, following the invasion of the Akkadian people, governor, and the city was heavily destroyed. It was reborn again and experienced a third nascent dynasty: the Shakkanaku. The Palace was completely rebuilt according to a the same proportions, while it is significantly improved. Remember, city 1 had a sea wall the fact that the dike was topped by a wall with human defense 300 meters from the rampart, which the interior rampart was doubled in thickness with a quickly around the entire perimeter of the city. Later, the exterior wall surmounting as the interior rampart. Finally, a glacis of pebbles is installed to prevent any undermining work by the attacker. However, this defensive system did not prevent the king of Babylon, in 1760. This reconstruction would not have been possible in the field. Each of the archaeological layers contains, in must detect and then interpret, in order to once lived there. The information collected to date also sheds light important of the cottage industries Indeed, numerous hearths, accompanied different places, indicating which arrived by boat from the then manufactured and resold. Beatrice and her team also found other but this asphalt basin is the only one to And this is what made us think that it could be dyeing or clay decanting workshop, that in this artisanal area, we kneaded balls of earth and slingshot balls. which were used as combat or ceramic technique was also used for the the pipes which carried and the cesspools which allowed wastewater to be evacuated finally, produced all kinds of here you mainly have the bottoms of bowls. What these. This is what gives us the nature of the ceramic technique only with the use of the kiln, which allowed by the refraction of the earth. But before firing the clay, the oven was created bread. Ovens, or tannurs as they are called here, Beatrice found the presence of tanners in this We have the impression that these were workshops there was an organization not only easily imagine the excitement that once that seems to have been abruptly interrupted. In fact, Beatrice and her team of a donkey that has been in agony, because the so the head would have been lying down. , there it was crushed, he was killed suddenly. fell with his cart and a load of surprising thing is that this skeleton is the second the first was accompanied by equines falling like that, it supposes that of the sector and which also allowed 's not all. Under these tarpaulins lies another there is the skeleton of an individual. This context suggests that it the body position is not natural. In the case of burials, the deceased suddenly, and death seems to have seized him donkey with a load of pots. Once the photos have been taken and the surveys is extracted with great care. Their study will make it possible to determine in particular the of their diet. Information that will enrich our of the Mariotes. 5:00 p.m.: Beatrice and her team The day is not yet over. Once cleaned, the archaeological objects are discovery, their nature, their shape and their decoration... specialists. The finds, rigorously referenced, . On these shelves, there are no statues or such as this knife blade or even scale model of a tank, this vehicle invented to very specific technology. For example, represents a nozzle which was used in a forge. was attached to the bag which was compressed And the force of the pressure on the wineskin gave charcoal which was used to melt the bronze in the crucibles which rested designers and restorers... Everyone meets dining room and a meeting room. It's time to take stock. Beatrice reports on the discoveries and elements of bitumen but for the rest, only excavation of the urban center is not that of the palace. Before closing the session, Jean-Claude Margueron led by Malou Schneider. The Mari Palace dates back to the 2nd one of the wonders of the world. It's 5:00 a.m. At the call of the rooster, the house of the of its torpor. In a constant ballet of comings and goings, of work. We must not forget anything: and first of all the draw up topographical plans. Once the equipment is gathered, everyone breakfast. Goals for the day? Discover the palace construction site; and tinged with the first golden paleness of dawn, the teams set out on Tell Hariri, this the ancient royal metropolis lie dormant. Built of raw bricks, the Mari Palace its past splendor; and this shapeless mass of earth this monumental ensemble of 2 and a half hectares built in the middle of the 3rd millennium, by a was built at the beginning of the 2nd millennium, according to a was organized into two large bodies. The first included a sacred area, as well was both private and official: there were the representation and reception places also included the Women's House. The ruins that we see on the surface, the millennium palace, excavated in 1934 by Andre Parrot. Those from the 3rd millennium, still cleared the entrance gate of the gate of the 2nd millennium palace. have not made the connection with the that I have to do this year, it is to make the fairly precise image of the interior organization of a was a whole entrance, 9 meters long, gradually towards the center of the palace... there were doors everywhere I have the impression that it really was Once through this imposing first large courtyard... The guest, who had obtained an audience, the northwest corner of this space. There stood the palace steward who access to the "Court of the Palm Tree", the courtyard evokes the artificial palm tree which once . Thanks to the archaeological clues collected of its original splendor: This courtyard, entirely plastered in white, was the most famous and best preserved of which is the composition is that of a triptych, totally symmetrical. >> "At the ends stands a goddess who In front of her is a palm tree, the palm tree spread out on three superimposed registers is and a griffin, fabulous animals, which later, doors in the form of colossal statues. >> "Then the central part is subdivided the main scene which The lower register is occupied by two four waves emerge, where small fish swim. hands of the goddess Isthar, who is the goddess staff which are the symbols of power. >> "This painting, which is not a in the Near East in place, which is rich on a symbolic level. First of all, each of the subjects of the as the goddesses holding a vase from which fertility , and therefore the prosperity of his country. Then, the staging of the Observe carefully! First of all, Isthar, goddess of love and pictorial composition. That's not all ! The artist also uses an artifice of which consists of doubling each element. The two palm trees recall that of holding a vase with gushing water, evoke the located immediately behind the painting. From this vestibule, the visitor accessed the official route. Thus, through its composition, this architectural organization of this tripartite space, in the throne room, whose walls king was invested with his powers. The stone base on which is still in place. From this room, the king had access on the one hand to the private, fiercely guarded apartments. The residence consisted of several service quarters. It also had a large we also know that the royal house was riches in the palace, and obviously with the temples: it is normal that there were private houses there were certainly fewer. body care. >> "And then there is the the king has underground coolers. the city do not have access to this kind of comfort. king was able to bring in ice from the northern mountains for of living that the king shared with a few rare there were many!: The Great Queen and the ladies of the of defeated kings, the concubines; but also women scribes, female service personnel. They all lived under the same roof. The Harem, as its name indicates in Arabic, was not allowed to leave this golden prison, very rarely concerned the servants. The only chance for them to was if their mistress ordered them to water for the queen's bath, for who is thirsty, for example, and they and so it It is of course a place where we chat, by rainwater coming from the terraces. The precious liquid was then redistributed pipes and sewers. The importance of these hydraulic installations is around a thousand people once lived in the palace. Such a population required, in fact, day. It also required as many kilos of grains meat and luxury foodstuffs mentioned on the such consumption demands, the king owned He buys food products, but also products manufactured in Mari's workshops. Finally, he manages the large warehouses of the palace, he behaves like a true businessman with and providing himself with the means for his policy. Seat of the royal institution, residence the Mari Palace was also Mari is not a good example. It is even an that we have on Mesopotamia. But the king is often the high priest of a which is that in these Mesopotamian cities, and of a god, who is the master of this city. and the divinity who is the owner, who in its location in the heart of the palace, also in its architectural model, which on a large central space, like this, with The first space, central, is the place of the place with the large room lying on the side: god, and it can be called the &quot;Most Holy Place&quot;. And then there are rooms all around which are which can serve as storage rooms, and which have a there is no gathering of the faithful, only rites and make the offerings. And you should know closed from the inside, and therefore there is a gods and kings were well protected from the reigned here, such as Puzur-Ishtar or Ishtup-Ilum, when we speak, we say God, we say the great included, however, other deities, who burials took place either under were buried inside the royal domain. Unfortunately, their graves were once contained, we go to mentioned in the archives of Mari, the ancient clearances began in the 1930s, remains of the ancient city, were moved its empty school, its mosques and its the appearance of a ghost village. Since 1994, thanks to the excavation work the city has gradually revealed its past. Like Mari, Qatna was founded in the 3rd millennium Middle Eastern trade; and like her, we are in the southern part of the throne room, Syria and in the northern part of Mesopotamia. and we are trying to clear all the project of restoration and you saw the throne room... So, there is throne room... We go down this staircase and we built with a mixture of bricks and archaeologists to the was no less thrilling than that of the discovery burial well, which goes down about three It was exciting because from the outside, which come from Egypt, quantities So we set up a tent here, guards days and after a fortnight, we had the we can go back. So the big Christmas. This royal tomb thus archaeologists discovered vases, jars &quot;kispum&quot; ceremonies, or funeral meals, were undoubtedly held, in the other world, but also of ensuring funerary architecture of the Middle East, it is the only I think, the greatest discovery of the beginning of the continues to the rhythm of the discoveries. Spectacular or not, each of them is still little-known 3rd millennium palace of Mari. One of the workers has just found it appears to be a simple fragment of fired clay. But if you look closely, you can see in the shape of nails, characteristic found in batches in storage rooms, or are a find, I was going to say, almost 15,000 or 16,000 tablets which were found Mari's glory came from. There are whole batches of them there, who take care of provinces, the relations of letters between the king and of Khabour, with the world of Babylon, etc. Mari's story, Hammurabi of Babylon, inventory: inventory of goods, inventory find out who betrayed him, without him knowing, and Hammurabi ordered the city to be burned. This destruction marks the decline of Mari, followed another, more contemporary drama threatens this undertook in 1975 to protect the sacred area in recent years, a second I realized that there was a second It's not bad weather from above, what I call the &quot;destructive furrow&quot;, the then the walls collapse . There, it is necessary to we have been doing in this temple for And I hope to intervene in the palace from the beginning of the but where we can still save a few and where we can revive a small of conservation of the throne room, and its state of dilapidation today, we enough for the walls of the throne room to melt. one of the restoration of the throne room is one of the essential keys to our