We are losing our listening. We spend roughly 60 percent but we're not very good at it. We retain just 25 percent of what we hear. Now -- not you, not this talk, but that is generally true. (Laughter) Let's define listening It's a mental process, and it's a process of extraction. We use some pretty cool One of them is pattern recognition. (Crowd noises) So in a cocktail if I say, &quot;David, Sara, pay attention&quot; -- We recognize patterns and especially our name. Differencing is another technique we use. If I left this pink noise on (Pink noise) you would literally We listen to differences; And then there is a whole These filters take us from all sound down to what we pay attention to. Most people are entirely But they actually create because they tell us what I'll give you one example of that. Intention is very important When I married my wife, I promised her I would listen as if for the first time. Now that's something (Laughter) But it's a great intention (Laughter) But that's not all. Sound places us in space and in time. If you close your eyes you're aware of the size of the room from the reverberation and the bouncing you're aware of how many because of the micro-noises And sound places us in time as well, because sound always has In fact, I would suggest that we experience the flow of time from past to future. So, &quot;Sonority is time I said at the beginning, Why did I say that? Well, there are a lot of reasons for this. First of all, we invented first writing, then audio recording The premium on accurate and careful Secondly, the world is now so noisy, (Noise) with this cacophony it's just hard to listen; it's tiring to listen. Many people take refuge in headphones, but they turn big, shared soundscapes, into millions of tiny, In this scenario, We're becoming impatient. We don't want oratory anymore; And the art of conversation is being by personal broadcasting. I don't know how much listening which is sadly very common, We're becoming desensitized. Our media have to scream at us in order to get our attention. And that means it's harder to the quiet, the subtle, the understated. This is a serious problem This is not trivial, because listening is our access Conscious listening and only without conscious listening can these things happen. A world where we don't listen is a very scary place indeed. So I'd like to share with you tools you can take away with you, to improve your own conscious listening. Would you like that? Audience: Yes! Good. The first one is silence. Just three minutes a day of silence to reset your ears and to recalibrate, so that you can hear the quiet again. If you can't get absolute silence, go for quiet, that's absolutely fine. Second, I call this &quot;the mixer.&quot; (Noise) So even if you're and we all spend a lot of time listen in the coffee bar How many individual channels You can do it in a beautiful place How many birds am I hearing? Where are they? Where are those ripples? It's a great exercise for improving Third, this exercise I call &quot;savoring,&quot; It's about enjoying mundane sounds. This, for example, is my tumble dryer. (Dryer) It's a waltz -- one, two, three; I love it! Or just try this one on for size. (Coffee grinder) Wow! So, mundane sounds if you pay attention. I call that the &quot;hidden choir&quot; -- The next exercise is probably if you just take one thing away. This is listening positions -- the idea that you can move to what's appropriate This is playing with those filters. Remember I gave you those filters? It's starting to play with them as levers, to get conscious about them These are just some or scales of listening There are many. Have fun with that. It's very exciting. And finally, an acronym. You can use this in listening, If you're in any one of those roles -- and I think that probably is everybody the acronym is RASA, which is the Sanskrit word And RASA stands for &quot;Receive,&quot; &quot;Appreciate,&quot; making little noises &quot;Summarize&quot; -- the word &quot;so&quot; and &quot;Ask,&quot; ask questions afterwards. Now sound is my passion, it's my life. I wrote a whole book about it. That's too much to ask for most people. But I believe that every human being in order to live fully -- connected in space and in time connected in understanding to each other, not to mention spiritually connected, because every spiritual path at its heart. That's why we need to teach listening Why is it not taught? It's crazy. And if we can teach listening we can take our listening to that dangerous, scary world and move it to a place where everybody or at least capable of doing it. Now, I don't know how to do that, but this is TED, and I think the TED community So I invite you to connect with me, take this mission out. And let's get listening taught in schools, and transform the world in one generation to a conscious, listening world -- a world of understanding and a world of peace. Thank you for listening to me today. (Applause)