SPROUL: In this session, we're going to look at one in the New Testament, one that's very popular called, usually, the Parable of the Prodigal given by another name, it's called the Parable And in Luke's Gospel, in Chapter 15, this with two other parables, much shorter in scope of the Lost Sheep. But the context for these before I read the parable, let me read the &quot;Then all the tax collectors and the sinners and scribes complained, saying, 'This man he spoke these parables.&quot; So you get the context in which Jesus gives the Lost Coin and the Lost Sheep. It was in the Pharisees that Jesus had dealings with as the background let's look at the parable. &quot;Then he said, A certain man had two sons, 'Father, give me the portion of goods that and not many days after, the younger son gathered and there, wasted his possessions with prodigal a severe famine in that land, and he began to a citizen of that country, and he sent would gladly have filled his stomach with him anything. &quot;But when he came to himself, he said, 'How enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger? say to him, '&quot;Father, I have sinned against worthy to be called your son. Make me like and came to his father, but when he was still compassion and ran and fell on his neck and I have sinned against heaven, and in your your son.' But the father said to his servants, Put a ring on his hand and sandals on his it, and let us eat and be merry. For this, lost, and is found.' And they began to be &quot;Now, his older son was in the field, and music and dancing, so he called one of the and he said to him, 'Your brother has come. your father has killed the fatted calf.' But his father came out and pleaded with him. these many years, I have been serving you. any time, and yet you never gave me a young but as soon as this son of yours came, who you killed the fatted calf for him.' And he that I have is yours. It was right that we was dead, and is alive again, and was lost, A short story, but what a story. In this story, its magnificent wonder and beauty and grace. who wants to have his inheritance now. The his vocabulary. He wanted to get his hands And so he begged his father for that gift, we are told that in a very short period of off to a far country. Now, we have to stop Why didn't he spend the money on riotous living house? Well, that's not the way sin works, -- or by nature, the children of darkness, prefer darkness over the light because our Every time I read this parable or hear this here in Central Florida? I think about an Spring Break. Right up the road, at Daytona pictures of the riotous behavior of these basically using drugs, alcohol, and engaged these scenes on television, I wonder about would feel if on the 9 PM news, they saw their Why do the students carry on like this in nobody knows them. And so their inhibitions, have been left back where they came from, outrageously as they choose. That's what this young man did. He went to his father wouldn't see him, where his brothers wouldn't see him. And there, he wasted his through his inheritance like that, throwing that his father had given him. That story deeply. Because there are few things in this good gift, a beautiful gift, and waste it. that God has given to us, thrown them away, was the epitome of that kind of living. That's But when his money was gone, when he'd spent recession but a famine -- a severe famine. to be in want. He went and joined himself into his fields to feed the swine. This is servant to pigs, a detestable animal to the the pigs, he has to live with the pigs. He's so destitute, that he's trying to take the doesn't starve to death. He would gladly have swine ate. But no one gave him anything. Now, that I think is extremely important. We read, &quot;But when he came to himself, he have bread enough to spare, and I perish with the greatest revival that ever hit this nation the Great Awakening. Not the Great Revival, because people were awakened out of their unconscious life of unbridled sin. Their consciences were perishing, and so the conversions that Edwards and others there in New England was Now that's what happened to the prodigal son. but I want to make this clear, that he didn't themselves by themselves. No one is awakened God can awaken a torpid sinner from their of how God saves people who are living in woke up, he said, &quot;I will arise and go to sinned against heaven and before you.'&quot; This by grace. Every sinner who's ever been awakened by themselves, they say, &quot;I will arise and I have sinned against heaven and I've sinned Father, I was a son in your house, and I left, house.'&quot; That's the heart of a converted person, I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. like one of your hired servants. And so he focus of the story changes from the prodigal still a great way off his father saw him and in the Bible we're told to gird up our loins that is used in the New Testament would speak they didn't wear blue jeans, they didn't wear much like dresses, and they would come down And so if you're dressed in that outfit and skirt above your knees and then put a belt you so that your legs would be free to run. in the distance, and he sees this figure approaching, the manner of walking. There's something familiar against hope, he's thinking this is maybe he would never see him again. He hikes up this man starts running down the street to He ran and fell on his neck, and kissed him. filial love, expressed with the embrace and &quot;Father, I've sinned against heaven, and in your son.&quot; &quot;I don't want to hear it,&quot; he said and told the best robe in the house and put it on him. The signet ring! The ring of authority! &quot;That this family and in this house. Put sandals and kill it, because we're going to have a son was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, Now, the focus goes to the other son, who parable. The older son was in the field and and dancing so he called one of the servants, on?&quot; And he said, &quot;Your brother has come home, your father has killed the fatted calf.&quot; &quot;What? inheritance and took off and left me back going to have a party?!&quot; He was angry and would not go in, and the father came out and pleaded with him, and many years, I've been serving you. I never and yet you never gave me a young goat that soon as this son of yours...&quot; Not as soon yours came, who has devoured your livelihood commandment. I've been serving you faithfully with harlots and he has the nerve to come He said, &quot;Son, you're always with me. You right that we should make merry. It was right and is alive again. He was lost, and is found. alive. He was lost! We didn't know where he about him! And now, he's found.&quot; Elsewhere, in heaven every time a sinner is converted. mad. The Pharisees hated sinners. One thing that they were worse sinners than they were, and a blessing from almighty God. If that's the unconverted person. It's a heart of a person if I understand the graciousness of grace, receiving that grace from God, even if it's What a tremendous story Jesus gave. What a again and again, because that person is converted trespasses, and now has been made alive. That coin, but now, has been found. That's the