In August 2024, the Lucara Diamond Corporation announced that they'd found a 2,492 carat diamond, deep in the Karowe mine in Botswana. It's the size of an orange, and the second largest diamond ever discovered. And while that might sound impressive to us, it's business as usual for This diamond is just one of many gigantic diamonds that have been unearthed in and it's not even the biggest! seven have come from Botswana. The country has some of the Only Russia produces more in number, but those stones tend to not be as big. So there's a lot we could go into, here: how diamonds came to define Botswana after they were discovered in the 1960's... The unusual partnership between the De Beers company and the country's government... And even the question of whether Botswana has really escaped the so-called "resource curse": the notion that many countries often end up with worse outcomes. But underpinning all of these Why here? How did this relatively small country come to win the diamond lottery so hard? As it turns out, t's a story that took billions of years to tell. And it involved some of in Earth's history. Today, we're going to explore how Botswana just happens to sit in the perfect place to make it the world's best diamond factory. [intro jingle] requires us to go deep. Really deep. Deeper than the deepest mines. We need to go to where humans have never been: The Earth's mantle. The hot, inner layer of rock between the Earth's crust and core. See, some gemstones, like rubies and emeralds, form naturally in Earth's crust. But diamonds don't. They only form in the mantle, and almost always in a particular region about 150 to 250 kilometers beneath the surface. It's here that you get the right mix of heat and intense pressure for carbon atoms to arrange themselves into that diamond structure. Now, being underneath the Earth's crust, the mantle is literally beneath everyone's feet everywhere on Earth. So you might assume diamonds are also ubiquitous, spread out around the globe more or less evenly. But that's not really the case. Diamonds are surprisingly finicky. If the temperature gets too hot, the carbon will actually Meanwhile, if there's too little pressure, you'll end up with cheap, graphite which we can turn And here is the first clue as to why Botswana got so lucky with diamonds. The crust that makes up much of the country sits on what's known as a craton. Cratons are pieces of what geologists call the lithosphere, since they technically include both the crust and the upper layer of the mantle right below it. Cratons are especially thick, stable, and very, very old. For example, the Kaapvaal craton under Botswana has rocks that are 3.5 billion years old. So you can think of cratons as kind of like the nuclei And their upper mantle undersides... which lie about 150 to 250 kilometers beneath the surface... are the perfect places for diamonds to form. The extra weight of the craton pushes down on that underbelly, keeping the pressure high. And since the craton's rock is so stable, its little bit of mantle doesn't interact too much with the immense, heat-transporting currents of churning rock in the rest of the mantle around it, meaning it stays relatively cool. I mean, it's still far warmer something northwards of 900 degrees Celsius... but that's what counts as It's also the temperature that diamonds favor. Now, this pressure and why you're more likely to find Florida or just out on the ocean floor. Because those areas don't sit on cratons. And it explains why other places with cratons, like Canada, Siberia, and Brazil, do tend to be diamond hotspots. But the Kaapvaal craton under Botswana is a bit special. It's been subjected to a lot more dogpiling by continental collisions, over and over again throughout Earth's history. Not only have those collisions made the craton thicker and stronger, they've also delivered more of the raw ingredients you need to make diamonds. See, the mantle does have some carbon in it. But when scientists look at chemical signatures in the diamonds themselves... including the little imperfections that got included as the diamond was forming... it looks like some of the carbon is coming not from the interior of the Earth, but something a lot closer to us: seafloor subduction. That's when an oceanic tectonic plate gets pushed underneath a continental one, like what's currently happening to oceanic crust along the west coast of North and South America. This subduction drags the down into the mantle, and also anything embedded in those rocks, such as carbon-based compounds. Meanwhile, it also brings which can help with the chemical reaction that actually creates those carbon-y diamonds, which seems to need both hydrogen and oxygen. Eventually, the subduction and melting triggers a kind of big geologic mix-up and that chemical reaction on a gigantic scale. Geologists call the result In other words, you get diamonds in big batches. Now, these diamond-creating events But as far as anyone can tell, this has happened a whopping seven different times underneath Botswana. At least. That's the most of any place we know, and it's all thanks to those frequent collisions this particular part of the world has experienced over billions of years. Thanks to Cometeer for supporting this SciShow video! Cometeer is a new way of making coffee with no machine and no mess. They grind up the coffee for you, brew it, and immediately flash freeze it to lock in the freshness and flavor. Then, you can make your own without having to do any of that work first thing in the morning. If you're the type to wake up early, you can switch to Cometeer and never worry about waking anyone else up with a loud grinder or using your not-quite-awake-yet brain to finagle a giant robot that takes up half of your kitchen. Just leave a frozen capsule in the fridge the night before you want to use it. It'll defrost overnight, so you can wake up, fill your favorite glass with about 7 ounces of water and ice, pour the coffee right in from With their variety of roasts from Cometeer has a coffee for everyone. To get 15 free cups in your first subscription, you can visit cometeer.com/SCISHOW15 or So to sum up so far, diamonds tend to form underneath of the Earth's lithosphere called cratons, because that's where we find the immense pressures and relatively cool Botswana sits on one of these cratons. But also, some especially have delivered an abundance of raw ingredients and triggered more diamond creating events than anywhere else we know about. But there's another piece to the puzzle. Because all of that stuff might explain why there are a bunch of diamonds beneath Botswana. But that's still hundreds of kilometers beneath the surface. So how do they get up here? It has to do with the type of If you're hunting for raw diamonds, you want to look for a kind of dark, heavy rock that's fragmented and filled with embedded crystals and greenish chunks. It's called kimberlite, and it's usually found in carrot-shaped cones that extend deep within the Earth. As an igneous rock, kimberlite is cooled magma. But it's usually found far Instead, kimberlite eruptions seem to happen right in the middle of cratons, just kind of bursting up out of nowhere in small, but sudden and incredibly violent events. And we'd love to show you footage of one, but most of them happened if not even longer. The most recent kimberlite eruption happened around 10 or 11,000 years ago. As for as why kimberlites pop up, scientists haven't been able to come to a definite conclusion. But in 2023, a paper in Nature suggested that kimberlite eruptions may be due to vortices in the mantle that are created as a supercontinent breaks apart. A team of geologists was looking at the timeline of known kimberlite eruptions across the last half-billion And kimberlite eruptions don't seem to happen evenly across time. Instead, they seem to abruptly bloom, then die down...again and again. Previous research had suggested this was related to plate tectonics in some way. So this team looked at what else was happening around those points in history, then ran some stats. They found that there wasn't anything taking place at roughly the same time as the eruptions that could explain them. But they did note an odd coincidence: If you rewound the timeline a little bit, you could see that kimberlite eruptions always seemed to peak around 30 million years after a supercontinent broke up. Thanks to some computer simulations, the team revealed that as the hot material from deep below the Earth can take advantage of this weak point and rise up in massive convection currents. This, in turn, creates a kind of vortex deep within the Earth at the border between the upper lithosphere hotter mantle beneath. Now, if this was water, such a vortex might quickly peter out. But in the mantle, they can churn for tens of millions of years. And as they do, they can travel... roiling along for hundreds and working their way along melting and destabilizing it. The displaced rock plummets down, while an upwelling of hotter material from deeper within the Earth rises to replace it, like bubbles in a lava lamp. And remember that ocean-floor subduction I mentioned a while back that brings water down to the underside of the continents? That water and other compounds also get heated up in the deeper mantle, and begin to decompress and turn into tiny bubbles of hot, volatile, highly pressurized gas. So the end result of this f fresh, hot, diamond-carrying magma that can punch straight up carrying one or even multiple along with it. And as it punches upward, it can encounter groundwater, vaporizing it and causing an at the surface. As the ripple spreads outwards, this process repeats itself, creating a chain of hotspots that travels along with the vortex. This mechanism might explain how kimberlites around the world work. But, again, Botswana might have massively benefited from this. Southern Africa has seen a Like when Pangaea broke apart, followed by South America, India, and Antarctica all leaving Southern Africa. All of these may have been followed by kimberlite eruptions. So why is Botswana home to a It's because it sits on top of not deep within the Earth, but on top a craton that's survived not just one, but multiple continent-spanning tectonic events that triggered a way for the Earth to deliver those diamonds to the surface. Including that 2,500 caret monster from Karowe. And probably a few that are even bigger. [ OUTRO ]