In this course you will improve your JavaScript with no frameworks, joi teaches this course, at breaking down concepts for beginners, be learned in this course. Hey guys, j here. cart just using vanilla JavaScript. So guys, today. As you can see that this is a clothing Every product card will have an image, a title, So what are these options? These options will want of this specific product, let's say that So you're gonna increase the quantity here let's say that I want to decrease the quantity, Okay, so guys, whatever product you select, itself. Let me show you a sample. Okay, let's this t shirt by six. Okay, and I want to increase can see that this number is updating itself here? 4567? What are these? These are your refresh the page, this data will not get erased. a feature called local storage, throw that the browser. By that even if you refresh the going to learn how to implement local storage if I click on this basket here, then you can selected from the shop page. So here we are that we selected, we can get the quantity with that we have this number. So what is this is calculated by multiplying the unit times 100 is 500. Just like that, all the once all of these things are done, you can that you want to increase the office shirt And you can see that this number updates itself. you can also decrease it like this, there thing entirely. So what you can do is you remove itself automatically like that. So code of today's project is in my GitHub repository below. So once you enter the link, you can Okay, if I click on here, then you can see and the starter files. So what we're going files and start our project. The finalized are these product images? Let me show you. all the 12 images here. Let me show you. Do images here. And if I go back on the data all the data of our product cards. Let me the store, do you see this data here? Yeah, this data. Yes, guys, don't worry, because to utilize these resources. So let's start a tutorial, first of all, we need to set up right click, create a new folder, okay. And for this tutorial, I'm going to name it shopping like this, okay, and then we're going to right have this option, don't worry, just come over code manually. So once it opens, you're going then come over to your desktop, and then search this one shopping cart open. Okay, and then open in VS code. The source code of this project the link of this repository in the description you're going to come over here and you're look at this. We have the images folder here click on the code, then download zip is gonna gonna open the zip like this, then come over like this look. Okay, then we're gonna open to drag it outside. Okay, next up, let's close our source folder like this. By the way, guys, I don't need it. But if you want to keep it So I'm going to delete that. Alright guys, going to see this images folder you see, I'm going to get four images. Don't worry guys, But for now, we're just gonna work with four you're gonna find pictures of shirts, T shirts, here. By the way, guys, you might have a question I got it from two websites. First one is unsplash.com. so you can go to any website, and then you going to find images of shirts, formal shirts, down, then do you see this image here? I took that that same image on the folder, you see. these images from and you can also use the Okay. Okay, guys, let's come back to VS code. Okay. So first one will be index html, okay, main.js. Okay. There we go. All right. Okay, make boilerplate code to do that you're going to find this option. If you don't find the together, and then you're going to find Emmet code will automatically generated this is on the title we can right here clothing store, okay, something like this. There we go. One style css? I'm going to link it here like this option, okay, do this. Okay, you're going then you're going to find Emmet abbreviation, see that the code got automatically written. in the href. Do these guys, you just hit Ctrl All of them are automatically shown up here. I saved your time. Okay, using Emmet. So now two tags here ending tags, you just come here option like this, you just hit control space this option. Okay? And on the source, you're space. Okay, and then select this one. Do There we go. Save it. Next up, come over to Okay, so let's write hello, world, something we're going to use a plug in called live server. And then right here, live server, something see this one here, live server made my home the thing. Once you install a live server, okay? And then you're going to right click called Open with live server. Okay. By the see this one here? On this ribbon, this blue it is called go live. If you click on this your web browser something like this. Do you In order to zoom in, you just hit Ctrl. And Can you see this one? You can just zoom in guys, can you see this gap here? Okay, do we need to remove those default styles of back to your CSS. Okay, so you're gonna write we go. Here's what just Emmet. Then you're Next time you're going to write in a box sizing Let's look at the result. Can you see that font here we are pleased the font family. over here and then right body. Okay, curly this save and write S S. If you don't see hit Control Space sans save, enter. Done. Can you see that the font family of our fonts done setting up our VS Code project folder. first thing that we're going to build is this it up first of all, okay to do that, let's over to your index html and then scroll down Hello World, we don't need it. We're going quickly follow along with me, okay, we're the option, same solution, just hit control the option. Okay, then hit tab. There we go. which plugin the plugins name is called Emmet. wrote me a div with the class name navbar. nav bar. And now we're going to hit h2 Tap. logo name. You can write anything you wish, Clothing Store. There we go. Done. So this logo name here. Okay, guys, let's come back cart icon here, we're going to make this one color, we're going to apply this dark background back to our VS code here. Okay. And below with the class name card. Look at this dot going to have icon and after the icon, we're card amount. Look at this dot card. Mo. Okay, inside here, we're going to write zero. Okay, me actually show you. So if you compare the this one here? We have a number here. This That's why I wrote the zero. And for the icon, to use a website called icons dot get bootstrap.com. scroll up, you're going to find a tons of to right here cart like this. And now if you options. Do you see this one here? We have them. But before picking any one of them, the CDN. Can I see the CDN here, just copy index html, and then you just paste it inside freely use a CDN for icons, let's scroll up. me just pick this one. Or let's pick this and you're going to find this called Icon our VS code. And now do you see this one? paste the thing here. Save it done. Let's me just zoom in a little bit. Do you see this is our shopping cart icon. And this is our style the thing. And for the color, guys for background color? Where did they get the color This is one here coolers.co. I got it from you just come over to explore trending palettes to search and then I just picked on the black going to find tons of color palettes I use five to nine I use this one. So I'm just gonna our VS code. Guys, we're done writing the so just copy up the class name. And let's here, you just write dot faced curly rec. if you come back to HTML, do you see this thing is a class, then you go write a dot. write your ID. Okay, nav bar. So if the thing the thing by writing a hashtag hashtag nav you understood the difference between selecting remove that one. Let's come back to ourselves. dot navbar. Okay, next time we're gonna write BGC tab. There we go. Do you see that hashtag that we copied. So I'm going to make it 212. So if we go back here, you see everything in order to see something, let's go back here that, you just right here color, sorry, color, Let's look at the results. You see, we have go back here and apply some padding. Okay? and then 60 pixel. So why they give two values this is the value for the top and bottom. and right. So padding top and bottom will right will be 60 pixels. Okay, let me show you see this value here, this is how much 25 pixels here, and there will be 60 pixels how I applied the padding. Okay? All right, But we want it to look like this. Can you thing. Okay, so let's go back to our VS code, to write comments. So in order to write nice thing. Okay, you just come to the extensions. comment, like this. And now you're going to written by Aaron Boone. Just click on this show you the cool feature using this extension. comments, let me show you. So if you right, star star slash, if you come here, and if can see that your comment is now red color. plugin. I also recommend you use the same by Aaron ponte. Okay. So once you install show it to you. Again, you just see right then star star slash again. Okay? So if you be in red color. And if you hit question mark Can you see that? So you have a lot of options. like this. And then here, I'm gonna write Something like this. All right. And now I'm I'm going to make another comment. So let then put it here. And then here, I'm going styles are here, something like this. There now is to make the Shopping Cart icon with results. So far. We have the icon and the very right side, how do we do it? We do it so let's go back to our HTML, which actually rule of using Flexbox is you have to use Flexbox look at this one. Can you see this one here? will be the children. This is also another You have two children inside this parent? It is already targeted here. So just come Next up. If you save it, then you can see one here? Previously, this thing was here, the moment you enable display flex, there Okay, so the default value of this property Okay. Can you see that? But if you if you like this, save it now look at the result but we want it to be in a in a format of row, I'm gonna keep it here. And I'm gonna code justify content. Okay. So in order to put other, we're going to use that justify content for justify content. SB means space between Now, this is here and our icon is on the very going to style our icon here. So let's get Okay, to inspect the structure. Look at this. this cart, we have two children. Okay, this which indicates how many things you have on so we're going to style this. So let's just at the bottom here, dot paste curly bracket. First things first, let's set the background and then we're gonna set the color Have to actually, did you remember that we use this use this color. Okay, done. Okay, done. Now at the results. Okay, so guys look at this bit, okay, so that you can see it better. that we're going to do is we're going to increase even without zooming in like this. And then radius. Let's go. So let's go back to our of five pixels, okay, V five pixel, tap, done. pixels, font minus size, how much 30 pixels we go. It became bigger. Let me just zoom looks much better. Okay, so now we're going can make this juicy these corners here. We apply some border Yes. Like this. Look. Border for pixel? There we go. Save it. Let's look this result so far. All right, guys, do you Just like our finalists project. Look at this. hanging at the top right corner. Okay, we're element as well. Okay, so let's get started. it called index html. Okay. And then we have amount here? So what is this, this is a class. a class. So you're going to scroll down and bracket, oh, sorry, curly bracket. And the we're going to increase the font size, okay, gonna set it to how much 16 pixels. You can put it to 16 pixels. Next up, set the background right here, red, okay, and then set the color save it. Let's look at the results so far. here. We're just white in color, and it has need to hang this on the top right corner. property called position absolute to do this. us abs. Okay, tab. So position absolute. Let's this results so far. Now we need to hang this look at this. You just come back here and right here, right? Oh, sorry, not inherit logo result. Okay, now you can notice something not on the very top right corner. The main position absolute Hmm. By default, by default, this position relative, something like this. want this thing to behave like this. We want exactly here. Okay, just like our this one, to solve this, look at this, you just come relative, you just cut it. Okay. Now scroll paste it here like this look. Okay, now save There we go. Can you see that now it is working understood how the position relative and the don't get it don't worry, I have an entire CSS position property with examples, you can 60 minutes long. Okay? Alright guys, now look actually inside. We want it to be a little to apply some border radius and padding as So let's go back to our VS code, and I'm going then I'm going to keep it here. I will do Okay, guys, what do I want, I want the zero side, in order to do that, I'm going to come and then right minus 15 pixels, like this, little bit up. Okay? In the same way, if you then I see then the zero will go down. Okay, save it. Now you can see the zero popping I'm going to adjust this as well to minus result. There we go. Can you see that? It guys. Let's apply some border radius and padding you can see that the zero component became going to apply a border Yes. Okay. Border Okay, save it. There we go, we have the results. our finalized project. Look at this, okay guys, we have successfully built up our navbar to build is this cards. Can you see these to hold our image, the title, description, us to increase the quantity and decrease the guys, you might have a question like, how I use CSS Grid property, and then I made four the same thing. What we're gonna do right we're going to put all the cards inside there. gonna go back to your VS code inside HTML, we're gonna fold it how to fold, put your small Chevron here, just click on it. And Perfect. Now listen, we're going to make a Opie at the same time, we're going to give reason for putting both the class and the CSS, and we're going to target this ID inside guys. Save the thing. Now listen, inside here. project. Okay. Where is it is here. So guys, So now look at this. Let's just come back class names. Item. Look at this dot item, go back there. And let's see, what do we have? see all the informations on this card, we're to put all the new information inside there. one will be called details. Okay, let me show for now, I will not touch these three, I will first of all, perfect only one div. Okay, by just copy pasting the thing. Let me show here, I'm going to write img tab. Okay, this do just put your cursor inside the source see these images, Enter. And then we're going okay, save the thing. Let's look at the result. you can see that the image is huge. Okay, make it smaller, just follow along with me, okay, this image here, just right here with Okay, like this. Don't put pixels, just 200 a pixel. Don't worry, just say the thing. becomes smaller. Perfect. Next up, we're going here. So let's go and put those details by going to make another div with a class name There we go. You see, okay, guys, inside this the description, let me show you what we're have the title tag, the description, the price Let's just come over here and here. Inside we're gonna hit casual shirt like this. There make a p tag, okay, P tab, then you're gonna any word you like. Okay, then you're gonna guys, below this one, we're going to have you one thing, one second. So this is price div, and inside that div, we're going to have you what I mean by that. Okay, so you just this. We're going to right here, dot price There we go. Now, inside here, look at this Okay, dollar sign. 45. Okay, save it. Let's $45 here now guys listening the buttons, okay? below the price, guys, you're gonna make a tt o NS tap. Okay, now guys, inside here, to use Bootstrap icons. You just come over dot get bootstrap.com Okay, this website so Okay, now we're going to scroll down, you're here and then right plus, okay, now if we another thing that you're gonna see is plus If you didn't include the CDN link, just copy inside the head tag, okay, just come here. the thing like this. Okay, and then save it into our project. Okay, let's come back here going to open it in a new tab, and then I'm to our VS code, scroll down and this is buttons like this, save it. Okay, let's go back. And M I N U S, okay, now you're gonna see two one, and this is the large one. Okay? So I'm copy the thing. Let's go back. There we go. minus Okay, there we go. Done. Now, guys, a div with a class name and quantity. Let now you're going to play zero here, okay, these two icons? The main reason is look is Every time you click on the plus, this number I mean, if you click on the minus this number from the finalized project. Okay, look at plus icon is the quantity here and this is the quantity increases and it shows up here. decreases and it shows the result here. So I wrote this lines. Okay. Alright guys with thing and let's look at the result. Okay, this. But don't worry, guys, we're going to the very first thing that I'm going to use four columns. How many columns are here, Count four columns. So in order to make that, so Flexbox, you got to apply that on a parent. fold this one like this, look at this. Okay, the parent of all the items right now I'm the shop, okay, this is class here, just copy css, then scroll down. Oh, by the way, guys, here? I wrote the font size two times. Okay. now I'm gonna scroll down and make a comment. listening a comment here. Okay? I mean, a order to make it just right slash star star, color. Or you can use question mark for blue sign then star star slash done. So here you're here. Okay, shop. Items. Styles are here. hit dot paste, curly bracket. Now inside here, grid. Look at this. BG tap. Okay, save it. not gonna see any changes that let's see, going to add more lines to it so that we can then right GTC tab. Okay, now guys, one second. how many columns can you see here for right? for each and every one of these columns. I going to do the same thing. Look at this. got grid template columns. Repeat. Okay, so four, comma. So how much we should each of So you're gonna write it two to three. PX, look at the result. So if you come over here, now This inside, okay? It's like an invisible second. So I'm just gonna keep it here. And like this. I'm gonna save it. Now. Can you put it here like this, save it now. There wall. Actually, that space is getting divided. what we're going to do is use this border that black color border in our car. Okay, come back to your index html. So we are done copy the item okay, like this. Let's come the shop Okay, dot paste. Now clearly record px one second to px solid. You're gonna write we use from coolers? Dotco. Use this color. Now. Can you see this thing? We have four even though they don't have data, but still that is if you come over here on the HTML, Four days. That's why four cards got generated here like this, save the thing. Now look at worry, guys, we're going to generate more one card. And then we can just copy paste guys. Can you see the image, it looks smaller fix that. In order to fix that just come over to open up the item. Do you see this width it. Now let's look at the result. There we looks sharp. We're going to make border radius. style css and on it, we're going to right does it okay border Yes, four pixels. Save we go. You see now it's rounded. Our guests this car? They don't have there is no gap come back to your style css and this is nav legs. Okay, save the thing. There we go. Done. more cards so that it looks like this. Okay, Now just close the chevron like this, copy you close the Chevron, then do the same thing then save the thing. Let's load the result. doesn't look perfect, but don't worry, we're Do we have four cards, there is no gap in just like this one. In order to make those to go back to our style css on the shop. Where's we're gonna write a gap 30 pixel legs look, can see that we have a gap in between all to be on the exact center. In order. In order it there's a property called justify content, So right JCC, tap Done. Save it. There we center. Brilliant. Okay, guys. Now let's compare this. Can you see this one here? We have a one here? But we don't have padding on our this gap here? Yeah, they have a gap. But and the paragraph tag at the same time, this So in order to make the changes, come back to our index html. Okay. Open up any one of Now, do you see this details here? Copy the at the bottom. Okay. Write dot paste, curly going to do is we're gonna right display flex you see this one here? It looks odd. It looks we don't want that. Because look at the finalized you see that? But it is actually row. So in That's because there's a property called Flex okay, the default value of this one is row, automatically gets triggered. Okay? In order and then set it to column like this. Okay, guys, next time, let's apply some padding. You see, this looks much better than before. and the price. Let's put gap in between them come here and then right there is a political we go. You see, now we have gap. Alright guys. project. There we go. You see, the price is at our one. This is not perfect, right? So go back to our HTML. Okay. Now, where is the is my buttons here. And this is my price. for you. Who is the parent of this price tag one can see this price quantity. This is the what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy style css at the bottom, okay, dot paste, is done inside here we're going to write display save the thing now the button was actually Okay, why did it happen? If you recall that direction. And every time you write this one, row something like this look, flex one second will need you will see no changes because if you want to change it just right column results. Okay, so for this tutorial, I'm going go. Okay, guys, next up, I want them to be that, just come here and then right JC SB say the thing. There we go. We have the results style this icons. In order to do that. Let's buttons here? Yeah, this is the main parent Okay? How many children's that just does the let's copy this one. Let's come back here. bracket. Now guys, if you guess that I'm going going to use display flex. Now look at this. column? Okay, we want them to be in a row row format. Okay? In order to do that, just what's the default property of flex direction go. You see. Now even if you don't write the problem. Okay. But if you wish, then you can right here, flex direction like this. Put we need a little bit of gap in order to put Okay, save the thing. There we go. We got font size, optionally, you can do that as let's say 16 pixels. Okay, there we go save guys, this is the default already already. like this, save the thing is gonna go bigger, keep it six look big 16 pixels if you want now guys, can you see this plus and a minus? project, you can see that this is green color. do the exact same thing, just come over to minus LG? This is a minus, okay, copy that the bottom, just dot paste. Okay, this is then right here color. Or sorry? Color. Then There we go. Now your minus icon is now red to do the thing, same process, just come back come back to your style css and the bottom you're gonna write your color. What was the let's look at the result. Brilliant. Okay, on the x axis here, okay, if you draw an imaginary at this, then you can realize that this this not aligned on the exact center. Okay, let line here, inside the price quantity selector, Now. There we go. Can you see this thing here? Now in order to save in order to solve this Okay, align items center. This thing works axis. Okay, save the thing. There we go. Problem back like this. Okay, save the thing. There to the file and let's project and then right smaller, let me show you if you make this four, right? If we make a small like this, if we make it even further, then it's going Now this is called a responsive website. Okay. what we're going to do is you're going to Where is the shop? Okay, this shop here below Okay, look at this, add the RED media. And okay. So we're going to right here first breakpoint black. Get your gadget dot sharp, curly racket, Paste the thing here, okay? Now what do I 1000 pixel, I want the thing to be how many to here, done. Save the thing. Okay, now let's inspect, Okay, now let's make it smaller like the width right now? 1040. Okay, the moment two columns from four columns. Okay, now let's because we didn't specify the media query. thing. Okay? Paste it here and here, specify you're gonna write one. Now guys, save the it below 500 pixels, okay? I mean, through there we go. It works perfectly fine. Okay. successfully completed the HTML and the CSS part. Okay. But before that, guys, look at cards have different data, look at the image. are different, the price is different as well. did this. Look at this. So how did we do it? name shop, we just perfected one card, and if you want to replace the data, let's say have to replace this tag. Let me show you thing like this look? So first of all, you Space, you're going to select Image number what official office shirt. Save the thing. Let me just also clear this one and run right result, guys. There we go. Can you see that? do you have? You have? How many cards? Let's cards? Does that mean that you're going to no, don't do it. At the same time, look at are just copy paste, which means most of the and again and again and again, right? Don't the thing here. In order to solve this issue, start the JavaScript. Make sure guys, you JavaScript will not work. Okay, the very first the ID Do you see it here? So my main intention and then I'm gonna target this inside ID. So let's copy this one. Let's go back to all ID inside main js? Look at this. First of Let anything you can write anything here. Look, let's shop a call to you just write then what is this, look at this, it is an get element by ID, then you're gonna write okay, and then you're gonna pay the thing have successfully targeted our shop. And we Now, if you want to test the thing, how the And then at the bottom, we got right here, you just write your shop, like save the thing. is the result, you hit F 12, or just right gonna go to this console, here, you see this. console. If you open up this one there, we on this one, you can see that this thing is the thing gets highlighted. Okay, so we what the console. Okay, we didn't want to do that. make a function here, okay? And then I'm going me all the cards automatically. Alright, in this guy. So what I'm going to do is I'm going shop Okay, generate shop. Okay, it's going here equal to sign, this will be your bracket is called es six arrow function. And now guys, regular functions looks like this function, called a regular function. This is called use this one. Alright guys, now I'm going do we stop the repetition? Actually, first things? Just how many things are here, four of them like this. Let's just keep one piece, function here. Let's trigger the function, like this. Okay, so we're defining the function and there's this console here. We don't need do one thing. Inside here, you're gonna write Now, guys fought sorry, I made a mistake, to use template literal. Look at this guys. to write strings, we're not going to use this This is called backticks. So this is used it, you're going to find this key below the something called Escape key, I'm an exit key, find the backtick. So you just click it one Okay, so we're not going to use this thing, do this. Inside here. One second, you just like this control x, save the thing. Okay. what you're going to do is, by the way, guys, going to have nothing, okay. Now, in order thing like this. Okay, save the thing. Okay, we're still going to see nothing. Why is that? that where these things should get printed. going to define the thing. So in order to to get where do you want this thing to get inside the shop. Because we have defined the we already have the grid defined, okay? Which inside here. That's why I selected the shop. copy the shop like this. Okay, now, come here, HTML, and then you're going to hit equal to look at the result. There we go. Guys. Can generated the card using what? using JavaScript. look at this, can you see these values here? Which means that we just use your hand to the thing. How do you automate the thing, make a array here, look at this, we're going sharp items data, okay, equal to you're going guys, let's say that we have, how many data 1234, we have four data, right? So in order we're gonna use curly bracket, this is called inside the array. If we write one curly bracket, that in our shop, we have only one thing to and then if you do it four times like this, sell for items to sell, okay? So these are at this list, first of all, make the first First of all, you're going to set the ID loop can write it anything you wish, no problem. keep it blank. Then you're gonna write a comma. Oh, by the way, guys, one more thing, this Okay. And now on the name, we're gonna write we go. Now you're gonna hit comma, you're is my main objective is do you see all the I'm just storing them here. Okay, so let's Okay, then coma D S, C, description of it. at this double double quotes. Lorem seven, this one, you're gonna get image img colon, one dot jpg. Okay, so, to not make any misspelling thing here? Where is it? Ah, this image here, Yeah. And then put it here like this. That's mistakes. Okay? So look at this, we have successfully the same way, look at this guys, I'm going to paste it inside here like this, okay, look items? We have four items in our shop at the Okay? Now, guys, as I told you, the ID should try anything, okay? At the same time, come And then I'm gonna give you a random value one will be official, let's strike off his Okay, and the image, just replace the one one will be our T shirt. Set the price to Okay, scroll down, you're gonna set the image a men's suit. Okay, men's. Let's remove this Save the thing. Okay. Now, if you go back not you're not gonna see any changes. Why the thing by using a map function. Okay, let works. So what you're going to do first of select it up to this backtick here, do you Now cut the thing. Okay. Now what you're gonna Do you see this thing? Shop items data, scroll here, shop there is it okay, sharp items data Look at this dot map. Okay, here is it. Now right bracket. Okay? Now, put your mouse inside function. Look at this. Brackets, okay, equal There we go. Done. Now, guys, we're going it anything you wish, no problem. Okay, for it very simple. I'm gonna write an x. So why is that this is math function here, the map Okay? So which means that how many items are here, four items, four objects, which means if you have 100 data insert here, which means by writing this x, it means that we're targeting Let me show you don't worry. Okay. So inside statement. Look at this. Read. Sorry, return you just pay the thing like this. Okay, there at the result. Guys. Look at this. There we once again, it looks odd. Okay, look at this this one here? It looks odd. That's because already see it here. Can I see this coma? this coma only then we can see the specific guys, come back to your main js and then you're curly bracket before this one? Okay. Do you dot join. Okay, bracket, then double quote. result. There we go, the comma are gone. But Okay, but we want them to get changed automatically, get changed automatically. In order to do Do you remember the x that I wrote? You see, one by one, one by one. So how many times many data we have. We have four data. So the map will run four times, and all of them will x here. Let's just come here and use this okay, now you're gonna hit dollar sign, curly you write the dot because it is actually an is an object, right? That's what the x is Just copy the name. Okay, scroll down. And like this. There we go. Done. Save the thing. see this name, then you're going to see that shirt or is off his shirt. This is T shirt. get changed. Look at this. We're going to it. It's very simple look this, remove the okay? Hit a space now right dollar sign curly r i, if you are not sure what to spell. If here. Okay, copy the spelling scroller and the thing. Okay. Now let's look at the result. see that? Brilliant. Now guys, look at this. the X, you gotta write x dot x dot x dot. that, we're going to use something called Look at this. So look, look at this. How many image, we have name, price, description image. I'm gonna destructure the thing Okay, so come okay, or not here. Sorry, guys. My bad. It here. It should be inside the map. Okay, so Okay, now, do you see these things here, just it here. And then you're gonna hit, comma. thing here, get the price. And also make sure we have the description of the image. So Command go. Now, guys, you don't have to write the the thing like this. Okay, let's remove the look at the result. So we got the exact same and also doing these changes, by the way, a question. You might have a question, right? order to access the object, we write it like name of the thing? Shop items data, right? is object, okay? If you want to, if you want name and then you have to write the dot price write the x dot name because the thing is here as an object. Okay. I really hope that Okay? Now, guys, I'm gonna remove the thing, do you see this? Where's the image? Here's from here. Okay, source equal to dollar sign it. Let's look at the result. There we go. It looks just like our finalized project can here. Yeah, we're gonna change the description. here and we're going to remove this one. Okay, Oh, sorry, curly bracket. And then you got look at the result. There we go, guys. Okay, Okay? All right, guys. If you notice carefully, price and the name but we didn't use the ID. parent. Okay, so what we're gonna do is we're ID, okay, equal to, we're gonna write here curly bracket, Id save the thing. Now let's to come here, and then you're going to right your elements, and then open the shop. Here's do we have 41234. Now you can notice that actually unique. Can you see this one here? etc. I really hope that you understood up same time, guys, let's come back here. And Do you see this quantity here? Yeah, we're to dollar sign curly bracket paisa thing. here is that guys, this is zero here. Yeah. to target the ID and then we're going to increment decrement the thing. We're going to target the thing Don't worry guys, we're going to have a practical feel of how the thing actually Now we're going to make two functions to increment is that every time you click on the plus the every time you click on this one, the decrement, to make two functions, this will be increment, this one here, we're going to make another will which has only one function to update let's come back to our alright guys. Let's Okay, do you see this data here is huge, right? come here click on the shaver. Okay, done. this function, what we're going to write is functions, increment decrement. Okay, another Update, look at this follow along with me, increment, okay, equal to there's one arrow Now, this is responsible for increasing the gonna make another function which we'll call we go. Okay. Another one will be called update Okay. Now, let me explain. Again, the increment is responsible for decreasing the number and number here. Okay, so far so good, guys. So I wrote three functions. Okay, let's go back you see this icon here? Yeah, and this is you're gonna right on track, okay. Everything C L IC K, okay. Equal to double quote. Okay. time you hit the minus which one should trigger copy the thing hmm. And then come back here There we go. Done. At the same time uses increment equal to double quote. Okay, now scroll down. scroll up and now put it here like this bracket actually works or not? Let me show you. Just console dot log. Okay, you're gonna increment. and then write console log. Okay, no log decrement, test the thing. Okay, let's come back to here to hit right click Inspect. Okay. Now let's on the plus like this. There you can see this click on the minus that is decrement. There Let's test all of them. Okay, there we go. perfectly fine. Okay, guys, here's the question. selecting? Okay, I can say that, hey, this one. You can visually see that. But JavaScript it know that you're selecting exactly this you exactly solve that? It's very simple. you remember this ID here? Yeah, this is a ID JavaScript can pinpoint which shop item why I wrote here ID and I gave it a unique identify which item we're selecting. Okay? here, look at this. This is increment and here. How do you pass argument Look at this ID, okay? In the same way, you just come here, Okay? Now listen, guys, scroll down here. ID Okay, save the thing. Let's test. Let's and click on the plus. Now guys, you're gonna every time you pass arguments inside here, well. Something like this. Look, this is our do the result. Okay, now, is it gonna work? perfectly fine. Now, can you see this one the quantity which is actually zero. And now is unique. Let's click something else like this ID we're going to tell JavaScript that decrement the number here or increment the words, you got no point. Okay, guys, we want that, just come back here and now let me let's okay? Selected Item, okay, and then you're we go. Now copy the thing, put it here, okay, Okay, so guys, now let's look at the result. you're not, you're not gonna see any changes. come back here and on a selected item, just if you come back here, if you select on the see the unique only the unique ID click on ID click here, unique ID done. In the same going to pass the ID here. Okay, we're going of these two lines here, and then paste it thing. Now look at this, every time, whatever minus is going to specifically pinpoint to selecting. Okay, so far, so good, guys. Now build is we're going to make a small basket. I'm ERATION. Lead, okay, basket. Okay, equal the reason for making the basket? The main let me just fold this code, okay, like this. is that every time you select any card, okay, inside our basket to steal specifically, which Now, let me show you an example. Let's say if you select on the plus, what will happen regenerate it, okay, inside this object, we're we're going to right here, Id colon, this we're going to have a item here, where the we have this item inside of a basket and the you click on the plus something like this this, so what will happen is reuses 18, number same time. So since you selected this thing, by storing the ID here. Let me show you a gonna remove the thing, okay, I'm gonna keep I'm going to scroll down here, inside the the increment, every time when the user clicks which means that look at this here, I'm going what we'll push inside here, look at this. to put two things First of all Id Okay, so Copy the thing. Put it here like this. Okay, next thing we're going to put Is it okay, this. There we go. Save the thing. Now listen. console logging the ID, we're going to console the thing, guys. Now cut the thing from here like this. Okay, save the thing. Let's come Let's come here and open the console. Okay, look at this, you're going to have one item Look at this. How many items do you have? this one, you can see that I you can see that piece. Now guys look at this. Every time you getting increased. If you open up this one, and again. And again. It doesn't make any we're going to do is we're going to increase times the it will get changed to three. Okay, this doesn't make any sense. It is just wasting thing look at this. Let's just come back to we're going to make a search function. Okay. is that is going to search whether the thing show you. Okay, so look at this one, guys. three identical items. It doesn't make any Let's say that you select this one, the search exists on a basket or not. If it exists, only increase like 12345, etc, okay? But if it this is push here is going to push a new object option. Okay? I really hope that you understood okay. Now look at this, you're going to come search, okay? Then you got right here equal like a basket dot fine. Okay, one second. whether the thing whether the object actually right here, bracket. Instead here, you're this. Okay, guys, now, look at this. We're you wish. No problem, guys. So for this tutorial, The main reason for pass fail. The main reason to check all the objects one by one. Okay, what I'm going to do is, I will do is this search for IDs, something like this. Look, write your exit ID. Okay? You're gonna hit Selected? ID? Yes. Selected. item.id. Copy what do I mean by this? It is just searching for the item that you selected. And then we're actually exist or not? Next up, guys, look a look at this if bracket and then you got at this triple equal sign and then you go what do I mean by this? I mean by this is trying to search, only then we're going to going to cut the thing and then put it inside mean by else? If we find the thing, okay, bracket, you're gonna write your search. This and then you go right here. Plus, sorry, guys, Plus equals doing right here. One done now. come back here. And now look at this. If I see only one object. Okay, bear with me, guys. Look at this. If the thing doesn't exist, just increase the quantity. Okay, so what on the plus like this, that what will happen? because we already have the ID. So which function The search is responsible for finding the let's click on the plus. Look at that. Let's the ID and the item increase. Let's increase up this one. There we go. You see item is on this one. Now, guys, one second. How many? Only one? Now guys tell me, does this thing no. So you're gonna click on this, you're have two objects inside here is the first one piece. This includes everything like this. increased. So guys, I really, really, really works. Okay. In the same way guys, we're going this one here, we're going to make the decrement decrement function is more or less quite similar with me guys. Just copy the entire thing like and now come over here and delete this thing. All right. Now guys do use this plus here. Okay, done. Okay, guys, after putting the so you're gonna see the result immediately. five time, okay. 12345. Okay, now let's open let's decrement the thing like this look 123 we go. It's working perfectly fine, guys. times. Look at this. I'm just gonna click If I open it up very last one. Look at this. any sense, right? So what we're going to do zero in our good thing. Follow up with me statement here. Yeah, instead of the undefined, he's gonna be searched dot icon, which means undo the things. Okay, one thing where did a question, right? So we actually got it from we have something called item. So the moment The moment the thing hits zero, we're going search dot item equal to zero. Look at this going to be zero, like this. There we go. do you see these things here, just remove just right here, return is going to stop the look something like this. Now, guys, let's on the results screen and look at this, I'm There we go. The item is now three. Let's There we got the item is one, the moment you zero, right? Which means that if you click click on keep clicking the thing, look at 100 times is not working. Why is that? That's Okay, by writing this statement, that return Don't do anything. Okay? Just like this. So that you understood up to this point and everything, just click on the thing, and then it's incrementing click on keep on decrementing the moment it zero is not going to do anything anymore. If you click on the plus now is going to work. we go. You see now is one piece. Okay? Now is do you remember the update function where going to define the update function right like the finalized project, you see this one? Okay, so let's do the same thing. In our Google uses update, we're going to define the thing. the update function to run? We want the thing thing to run every time we click on the plus What do I mean by that? Okay, so come here, dot log, okay, we're gonna write here, the I told you, every time we click on the plus we'll do this. Okay, just copy the update. First of all, okay, do you see this one here, pay the thing like this. Okay? Then bracket after the console, log base, a thing bracket guys. Let's come back here, open the console the update function is running is working click, however you click the thing works. console log, we want to print the numbers all, let's go back to our VS code, okay. And okay? Inside the increment. Do you remember the unique ID, okay? Just copy the unique it here, okay? Selected Item, then just pass save the thing. Now, let's come inside here. Okay, save the thing. Now, instead of just write it. Okay, save the thing. Now, initially, getting the update function is running, you're gonna get the unique ID. Okay? Now, guys, me show you the unique ID has attachment here. unique ID here? Yeah, it has a direct attachment dot get element by ID to replace the number listing, scroll down to our update function. we're going to make a quick search. If and will increase. Okay guys, we're back to VS a search function okay, let search, okay? then you go right here, bracket, insert, here similar process the way how I is a similar I'm going to do it in the exact same process. X here? I'm gonna put the X here as well. searching against the Id look at this. I'm try to match with this ID. If it matches, Look at this. Okay, after writing this function, and then you put it here like this. There basket. Okay, I'm in the console, comment log here as well. Now Oh, sorry, not this comment that thing? Save it. Let's look at the VS code. And now every time you click the console. Okay, where is this coming from? function, which is the console log is coming incrementing, the thing can you see the item right? So we only want the number. We don't the ID in our only target, Id just come here Let's look at the result. Every time you click increment. Okay? Now, we don't want this thing the zero here. How do you do it? Look at this, document. Okay? dot get element by ID. And and then put it here like this. Okay, then dot item, which is actually this one. This is printing number 12345, etc. Just copy the Look at this. Let's come back here. Every can you see the number? It's live? It's working How many items are here? Eight. How many items is one. There we go. Right? It's working perfectly decrypt the thing. If you click on here, look work, but the increment works. Okay. Why is thing here as well. There's this update, which we're going to define it just like the way simple, guys. Just copy the thing here, and this.id. Say the thing. Let's look at the this 1123456. Let's decrement There we go, there we go. Right. Brilliant. Okay, now, every time you increment a thing, okay, what and seven. So what will happen is we're going we're going to display it on here. So since add all the numbers and then we're going to Okay? So if we add all the numbers is going nothing is working here. incremental thing Let's make that function guys. So what we're use these unnecessary comments, you can delete So at the very bottom, you're going to make calculation, look at this, let or sorry, let okay, something like this. There we go. So We're going to add all the numbers do you all the numbers and we're going to display here. Okay. Okay, guys, here's the question run? If you notice carefully guys, so whatever the update function runs every time right. function to run only when the update function thing, just copy the thing Okay, and then go. Done. So listen. So what will happen let here console log. Okay. Console. The log and correlation function is running. Okay, now update function gets triggered, the calculation like this look, first of all doing this console the thing. Now guys, let's look at the result. right click inspect, okay. Now every time go to the console. Okay, every time you click this one here, the number is getting upgraded function is running. We're getting this comment function, which is this one, okay? Which means Okay, now, guys, we need to select this thing. zero here? We need to target the zero. So guys, let's go back to our index html here here? We have a little cart amount, okay, we can easily target that inside JavaScript. put your ID equal to double quote. Okay, now the thing again. Let's come back to our main at this, I'm gonna right here, let lead Cart document or sorry, document dot get element what we're doing is we're selecting our icon inside the variable. So far, so good, guys. I'm gonna do, I'm gonna right click Cart icon, example, guys, look at this. Okay, so now How much is this one is just zero. Look at But if I click it again, it's not gonna work. I don't want it. This is called hard coded don't want this. Look at this. I'm gonna I'm Okay? Console. dot log. Okay. Now inside here, the thing. Let's go back here and open the Let's select this one, select this one, okay, Now, if I open up this basket, look at this. I have four items in my basket. Do you see I want? I want to add all the numbers. Okay, gonna do right now is when I select only the only the item, not I don't need the ID, I'm this, look at this case, just come back here. this basket, right, whereas a dot map, bracket, this. Now we're going to pass an argument objects one by one. How many objects do we target all of them one by one and is going order to specify only the item, you just hit Now let's do the result one second. Click this one. Take this. Now guys, can you see else. Okay, we are getting only the number. is the four the four is here. This is five, guys, we are going to use a reduced function guys. Come back here. And now after this one, at this r e d use E reduce. Okay, now right ESX error function like this look, huh? And here. 1x and another one we call y. So why x and y is that x and y, one of them is the next number, which means that one second. this. First of all, let's consider the three is going to add the three with four. So how Okay, so this will be the previous number, is three to seven plus three, how much 10. So, say 10 plus five is how much 15. That's you understood how the reduced function should to hit X plus Y. Now, optionally, you're going a default number, which means that we want save the thing. Now, guys, let's look at the write 12345. Can you see this five year? We then we add three items. 1233. There you go. how much? Eight. The calculation is working we go. Let's decrease something. There we we don't want the thing to be on the console. project. Okay, in order to put the number is this cart icon here. Yeah. Copy the thing. you got I had dot innerHTML equal to do use Put it here and remove the console from here Let's look at the result. Let's close this we go. You see seven items here, seven items 10 items here. Let's try to decriminalising working perfectly fine, guys. Okay, so we But guys, here's the thing. This is number rephrase the thing, all data are gone. Can project, look at this. Even if you refresh see this one here? I'm refreshing the thing away? How is this possible? I am using something then we can save this data. Look at this. there is something called application. Okay. is this local storage, there's something called of your chrome of your web browser. If you click on this one. And now look at this. All if we refresh, nothing will happen. Look at this one, the item is five. So let's find you see this one here? The how many? How many you make minus look at this, can you see that look at this, the item is getting updated as well. However you like you refer to thing, the thing is getting saved in the local storage. functionalities in our project right now. it, you can see a fresh instance of this app. this, okay, look at this. Now, what do I exactly this. Okay, we have a lot of data here, right? inside the local storage, okay, so that the like this one, you see. So do you see these were inside the basket. Okay. When I use local We're going to use the exact same principle want to trigger the local search? Listen, we get triggered local storage, something now scroll down. Give me a second. Where's here on the increment function, okay, here. search, look at his local storage.if. You you see, get item set item, remove item clear. to set the item inside the local storage, And the get item is used to get data from to delete everything. delicacy. Now look at two things. Look at this. First of all, we're you can give any name you wish, no problem, to name it data. Okay, so this is actually storage. Let me show you. So if we look at to the application Do you see is key here of data. That's the key. If you write, let's here, joy, okay? If I do that, what will happen all the values will get saved here. Okay? why I wrote the name here. Okay, this is the I'm gonna write your data like this. There and then you're going to pass the basket lines Let's look at the result guys, come back here. open the dev tools. And now go to the application. then you're going to find some application. storage on the local search, open up this this one here, guys, the data is the key, this. Look, you just change the name here, that is getting stored. Okay? Look at this, and the value is here. Now, if you click on here. Currently, there are no property. Now at this, guys, what is getting stored something So guys, if we want to read the thing, what's just like this one. So what you got to do there's something called JSON dot Stringify. it had JSON, dot Stringify. Okay, now bracket the thing. Now let's look at the result. Let's now this, click on here, and then delete the There we go. Okay, we got something here, the data got saved here. Now look at this, here, the 10 is here as well. Let's try to you can see the value is not getting updated. stress exists only on the increment not on Yeah, come here and wrote it before the update. That same thing. Let's go back and now look much it's 10 right in Australia decriminalising. First of all, you're gonna need the thing, a thing. There we go. You see you got you going to find this. Okay, now let's try to click, and then you can see that the item a thing? Sure, why not? Let's do criminal perfectly fine. You see, let's add something this as well. Okay. If you click on here, guys, were successful up to this point and second, look at this, do you see this three everything goes away. But still, Hey, guys, So our main task right now is we have to retrieve Okay, in order to do that is very simple. the data, so what are we doing here, we're Now we're going to retrieve the data in order top. Okay, do you see this basket here? Yeah, to get the thing from the local storage, you parse like this. Now we got actually a bracket. Okay, local storage dot get item. Previously you're gonna hit a bracket. Now guys, you you gave the name of the keys data, right? Look, you're gonna right here, double quote. retrieved. And then guys, we're gonna write going to right here, empty error like this. this. Okay, look at this guys. So we have have? We already have the data but what if any data that is going to be error, which in order to stop preventing from happening all statement and then we're gonna give you here. Do you remember how it was like it was we have local data is going to retrieve that, only an empty array. So I really hope that Okay? Let's save the thing. Now guys, let's this. It is zero here. And it's for on a Google time is going to be five right now. Okay, now this, if you refresh it, again, it's gonna is going to be six. This is the behavior that And in order to update all the things altogether, go to your template, do you remember the template? Okay, just open up this one. Now, look at a quick search. Okay, we're going to say let, why did write this search and why I'm making the thing, let's go look at the results screen. at this, how many objects are actually inside six. And the second one is actually three, so what we're gonna do is we're gonna search Id already exists on the local stores, just exist, then do nothing. Okay, that's why I define the thing. Okay, so you're gonna write okay? Basket, dot find, bracket, and then going to pass here, x, okay? Look at this. matching against the ID. So you're gonna write this ID here? Yeah, just pass the ID here. one. Okay, guys, now we're gonna write an array. So what do I mean by that? I mean by store it here. Okay? If we don't find anything, so good, guys. Alright, guys, copy this search, the zero. And then you're going to write here, search here. Okay, so what do I want to search I don't want the ID. So what I'm going to And now I'm going to right here search dot that item is equal to undefined, which means to only return zero. But if we find it, then like this, there we go. Done. Save the thickness Look at this, automatically, we got the 603. it still works. Can you see that six is here, like this, refresh the thing. There we go. is and now nothing is getting deleted. This guys look at this. Even if we refresh the a thing like this. And then you declare the going away. The only problem is with this refresh the thing like this, it's it goes look at this three, right? Is it like this, the only issue that we have to fix. Very simple, back to your main just scroll down. And then and then invoke it one time like this done. is that every time the application loads, to do a quick calculation, and then it's gonna if I refresh the page, look at it's just the the number Look at this 17 They started decrement even further is 24 right now refresh the page. have successfully implemented the local storage before moving forward, we have some problem example look at this. If I put my mouse over compared to the Finalize project. Look at changes to pointer, okay. In order to solve at the very top, okay, below the body, you're is I'm targeting all icon, HTML elements, to curb boy or girl boy, tab, cursor pointer, Okay. So every time you put your mouse here, Okay, guys, the next problem is actually with the minus button shows an error on the console. me show you what I mean by that. Okay, so hit Inspect, okay, come over to your local do this guys, click on here, delete the entire the console. And now click on a minus, can So guys, why is this happening? Let me show the decryption function, okay? The error is coming? Let me tell you, since guys, the local is also blank. If the basket is blank, you the search will be undefined. And in order FL statement. Right? So that's where the error gonna write another if statement here, okay, Okay, then you're gonna just return the thing. this line is that every time when the search line will stop the process. And guys, do you If Okay, something like this, else, if, and the error. Okay? So first of all, make sure let's go back to the console. Now click on error right now. Brilliant. Now, guys, let's to demonstrate the third problem, first of something like this. Okay, there we go. Now go back to your local storage like this. Okay, is this? This is our basket. Okay, so it's along with the specific quantity that we selected, So as an example, let's say that I don't want zero quantity, let's make it zero like this. the thing from my basket. Even though you that is getting stored. Okay, so guys, there which has a quantity of zero, it doesn't make Okay, which line we have to remove this zero. to your VS code on the decrement function. decrement function. Okay, follow along with gonna write here a basket. Okay, equal to I'm going to use the filter function. Look okay, something like this. Now you're gonna an ESX error function like this, okay? And you wish, no problem. But for this tutorial, Okay. Now, what are we filtering against? item, right? So now we're gonna select the me I'm going to explain this. First of all, x dot item, okay, not equal to zero. Okay, statement. Do you see this basket here? What Let's keep it side by side with our local local shirt is actually array. Okay, inside we selected from the store. Right? And next So what do I mean by this x of the filter many objects here we have four objects 1234. that target all of these objects one by one, is against the item. So look at this individual We have two things, ID and the item. We don't Okay. So that's why I have written this extra extra item is not equal to zero, throw this objects with which doesn't have a zero on do we have on which the item is zero? Only means that this filter will remove this object, So guys Once the filter function returns the we're saying we're sending the data back to here? We're going to cut the thing, and then Okay, so why did they do such a thing? That's JavaScript runs from the top to the bottom our code. What are we doing in this lines? we're editing data of our basket, which carries are we doing with the local storage set item. those data of the basket inside the local things at the top, and this is one of the lines of code, first of all, so that we can data of our basket. So once that's done, what it to save all the data, I mean, save all like this. So if I cut the thing from here, then this then guys, it doesn't make any sense. will do is whatever basket data you have, of all, and then is going to do all edits, updates on the local storage. That's why guys, like this. Okay, so guys, I really hope that In the same way, you're gonna open the increment here, you just got the thing from here like Okay, save the thing. There we go. Done. Now, just fold it first of all, now, guys, save we have a zero here, right? Let's refresh So first of all, let's delete the data. Okay, here like this. Okay? Select something here. can see the data here. Alright guys, now let's here, okay? Every time you click on the plus, minus also works. So let's go and make it right? It doesn't work, but instead is giving That's because of the serial Look at these the serial, so we want the update to run first, since it is in the opposite direction, that's to fix that, guys, just cut the thing from there we go. Now guys, save the thing. And come here, and then refresh the thing. Now, piece. Okay, click on here. Done. Now it's from our basket. Brilliant. Let's test it test this one as well. 43210. There we go. All right, guys. So far, so good. Now we're look at the final test project, the cart page this. So let me give you a small demo, this to have two options, either the checkout option going to delete everything from here. Next all the items that we selected from the shop this is the unit price, okay, the price of this is the total price. And this total price 45 by two. So if you click on the Plus, you same time, the total bill increases here like that. Okay, you can also decrementing like want the thing. So you can just click on the remove the thing like this. There we go. Okay, say that you don't want anything you don't clear cart is going to remove everything and cart is empty cart is empty, you can go back go. You see. Now let's start building the the cart page, let's go back to our VS code, zoom in a little bit so that you can see it file. We're gonna name it car dot HTML, okay, Now guys follow along with me, we're going So the main objective of creating this folder and JavaScript file inside here so that we and clean way. Okay, so guys follow along and the style css here like this. Okay. So here, we have to go back to the index html, one and this one here, we have to, we have like this. Can you see this one here. So in got applied because we update the folder structure as well. So come here, and then write source here. You're gonna write your source slash result. If everything goes, well, you should guys, perfect. Let's go back to our folder For this page, we have this main js file. another file, we're gonna name it, cart, dot let's go back to our cart HTML here, we're something like this. exclamatory sign, tap from scratch, we just copy paste lines from index html, scroll up. Do you see these three is the link for the style css, and this is something like this. Okay. Copy the thing. the thing with this. Okay, there we go. Done. source control space, you're gonna go to your current Jas. Okay, save the thing, guys. Okay, see this nav bar here, this is the current can see the same nav bar here, which means scratch, we can just copy paste the thing Can you see this on here, if I click on here, it goes back to the home page. This is the going to use the anchor tags. So let's implement gonna go to your index, HTML first. Okay. going to hit here a tab, okay, control space, got this h2 tag from here. And then we're now let's make another anchor tag, which will like this. There we go. Now, inside here, just copy the entire thing. I mean, cut the thing, guys. Now do this. You just close the go back to the cart HTML. Now inside the body okay? Then you can also fold it like this. at the result. Okay? If everything goes, well, see this on here? It looks odd. It was previously the anchor tag actually have some default come back to our style css at the very top write a curly bracket, okay, TD tap, text set the color to white. Okay, something like the result. So it should look something like navigate between the cart page like this. we go. Right. So far, so good. But guys, there's number here is 15, one, five. But if you go this actually happening? Let me tell you. is totally blank. It doesn't have any data. in order to fix that thing, what we're gonna remember our local storage here, let me show we're gonna do is we're going to pull this we don't have to write anything from scratch. Now, do you see this line here? Let Baskin of pulling data from the local storage. So from the local storage. If we don't have anything, Okay, so guys, let's just copy the thing. the thing done. Now, in order to be sure whether or not just console log Okay, okay, console like this, save the thing, guys. Now let's the console here, you should see data coming this. But guys, the 15, the number 15 is not 15th is here, but actually not here. So in that we created a function inside main js this? So what is the job of this calculation? function is that let's go back to our data data. The main job of the calculation function okay, so what the calculation function will okay, and then he's going to show it here. go back to our main Jas. Okay, here, let's with this statement. Okay, just copy the thing. the thing here. Now, guys, we don't need this the thing, guys. Now, guys, let's look at you can see 15 Here, if you go back, you have else. Let's say that we're going to select you can see that previously, it was 50. Now on here, then you can see that that thing Next up, guys go back to the VS code on the the very top, do you see this variable here, is this actually, this is an array which carries on the shop page, we can also create a separate that, what you're gonna do is you're gonna from here, okay, now on the folder structure, then you're going to create a new file, you're this, then you're gonna hit enter the variable here like this. Okay, let me zoom out a little here, it got here, save the thing, guys. Now see that the entire thing broke down something defined. So in order to include this data you're gonna do? You're gonna go to your index one, you're going to include it like this source control space, you're gonna go to your okay, save the thing. Now, let's do the result, So guys, I really hope that you understood smaller files. Okay? In the same way, what cart HTML, okay? And before this line, you're like this look, script source, control space, Jas, say the thing, okay. All right, guys. markup inside our body tag. Okay. So below with the ID label something like this look, to have a class name of text center dot text, is to target this inside JavaScript and target line, we're going to create another div with shopping. Minus cart. Okay, at the same time, name something like this look, hashtag shopping. target this in JavaScript. This will be targeted me a question like, what's the main reason for creating this one? Let me show you guys. Okay, let's go to the cart page. Now, do you the checkout clear card, this component will see this on here, inside here, what we're here. So guys, I really hope that you understood not going to write anything inside this two using JavaScript. So first of all, do this select both of them inside the JavaScript, let's go back to our card, GS. And at the right here, let label Okay, since this this Okay, document. dot get element by ID. You're quote. Face the thing Okay, done. Next step. cart equal to document dot get element by like this. Let's go back to our cart HTML, ID here. Yeah, copy the thing. Let's go back we go. Done. Okay, guys, so far, so good. far less project, we have all the cards here. build this one, first of all, and then we're in order to build all of these cars, we're will be generate cart items follow along with here, lead, generate, generate card items, something like this. Okay, then we're gonna me carefully inside this function, we're going we will have data on the basket. And the second Let me show you what do I mean by that? First to the finalized product. Okay, to look at have some data on the local storage. Let's have data on the local storage, then the thing have any data on the local storage, then what look something like this look, if I clear Okay, cart is empty back to hope. So in order we're going to use the if else statement. to the card Jas, and inside here we're gonna follow along with me. So guys, we're gonna bracket curly bracket, okay, on the next line, So inside this bracket, you're gonna write Okay, so what do I mean by this if else statement, is not equal to zero, you're gonna write, gonna run this code, okay? So let's test the over a console, dot log. Okay, we got it, this L statement, we're going to add console, here basket is totally empty. Okay. Now after then we're going to invoke the function here. look at the result. Okay. So this is a result HTML page, okay, like this. Can you see this But guys, let's go to the application. Local Now let's refresh the thing. Go back to the totally empty. So guys, I really hope that is working. Okay. So guys, let's remove the writing the if statement, let's finish the you're gonna do is you're gonna scroll up it doing? It is targeting the ID from the then scroll down the page, the thing here equal to backticks. Okay, we're going to make what you're going to do is do room with this HTML element. Okay, just copy the thing, scroll then you're gonna write hate dot innerHTML. look at this, first of all, we are back to And guys, here we go. Right card is empty. next one, you're gonna write here, a tab. tag, which will lead us to index html, which so inside here, what we're going to write this, bu TT o n dot, we're going to attach this, then you're going to hit tab. There class name. Don't do it, guys. Otherwise, be a class not class name. Now insert here, like this. So bad to have done, save the thing. if we look at the results screen, it looks back to home page. We're seeing this component to put it on the exact center in order to okay, and at the very bottom, come to at the write first of all a comment. Okay, so we're exclamatory sign here we're gonna write style buttons. Okay? Something like this. Save the text center. Do you remember this guys one we have a class of text center, just copy it like this, okay, dot paste, curly bracket. then center. Okay, then you're going to add Pixel, save the thing. Now let's do the result, like this. And guys, the main reason for putting look at the Finalize project here, then you margin bottom of 20. Pixel. You can't see cards getting generated here. Okay, this is it right now. So let's go back to our style second, guys. Let's first of all, come back guys card GS. And this is class name here, your style css and then you're gonna hit dot bracket. So you're gonna set the background you're gonna hit control space. Do you see next time, you can either color to be white. border, okay, border none. Okay, then we're to all sides. Okay. Next, we're going to add radius, three pixel. Okay, guys, next up, Okay, girl, boy, tap, save the thing leads this. But guys can see this card is empty in between. Let's apply some gap. In order right empty. 10 pixel, tap. There we go margin the result. Can you see this on here? We have So far. So good, guys. Now let's test the lead you back to the home page. Can you see this. There we go. So guys, it's working perfectly are we seeing this component? The main reason guys. So do you remember this function here cart items, we have an if else statement here. local stress is not empty. And the else will at these guys. We don't have anything on the to the homepage here. Let's select something now the local storage is not empty, our basket Now look at this. This component is not rendering the LC is not running the if statement is totally blank. That's why we can't see anything Look at this. Now let's remove the thing like back here. Look at this, we can again see else is running. So now guys, let's actually follow along with me. So on the if statement, going to return? Look at this. We're going cart here. Yeah, copy the thing, scroll down like this. Okay, now we're going to hit dot basket. Do you remember the basket? Where And what is this? This is an array which carries the basket, we're going to make a map like an ESX arrow function like this. Next step, running the exe is that let me show you one here. Let's select something. Okay. Let's local storage here like this. Where is it? Okay, guys, this is the local storage data. is going to target all of these objects one I wrote this x here. Okay, you can read anything keep here x. Now next up here, I'm gonna write Let's return something again. Okay, we're So we're going to actually have backed Okay, with a class named cart item. Look at this class name here, which should be only class. the thing. Let's write something here. Okay, at the result. There we go. If we go back one second guys can says hello, hello, hello. might have a question like, why is it repeating? where's the X guys, this x will target all one by one and then is going to run this function all of them one by one, and then it's going That's why we got the Hello four times. But do we have here? 41234. Let's say that I'm want anything here. If we go to the cart page, that? That's because we only have three items strange here this little icon suggested resuming. need the comma. In order to remove that comma, come you just come here and then you can write double quote like this, save the thing. Now can see that the strange comma is God. Brilliant. And this is the thing that we don't want guys. in order to make the thing we have to write Let's run the hello from here. And then we're going to first of all include the image. Do actually img tab. Okay, the source will be from the data. Jas, can you see this one here? Okay. So look at these guys. Did we include let's just check the thing. Okay, let's go before the cart GS, we have the data Jas which variable inside our car just let me show you of all, save the entirety Okay, now if you I'm gonna right here is small console, okay, shop items data, which is coming from where save the entire thing. Let's go and look at to the console, you can see the data array that are selected. I'm in data listed on the it got the ID, image, name, price, etc. So to our VS code on the main js Okay, so not from here. And now what we're going to do here, okay. Now guys, look at this x can see this x? This x is actually a object. Look console. Okay, the log, we're gonna say x, x will run four times. Why is that? That's to run three times. That's because guys look things do we have on the basket? Three things. Now look at the console can see this one here. you see this ID here? i Oh, why something? I O Y, according to the ID. Okay, according Look at this. Let's come back here on the it okay? Can I see this one here? This is does this object carry this object carries carries the name. So do you know what I'm this x ID. I'm going to grab the data from image. Do you see this image here? I'm going get it inside the source. Let me show you is first of all, I'm going to destructure look at this. Do you see this one here? We the item right now we only need the item okay? the thing like this, look at this lead curly here which one item Okay, equal to x done. from this x okay, next step, guys. We're going search. Search equal to So what are we searching variable. Can you see this variable here? from the data GS, okay, come back here and Okay? So search equals shop items data, then find bracket, okay? Now inside here, we're like this. Okay? Now you can add anything guys. Let's write a why here. Okay, you're just write why. Okay, now, what are we searching see. So look at this ID here, guys. Where from the basket. Okay? And where is this wire GS. Okay, so what do I want, I want to match ID we have on the basket, we want to match like this. Let me show you. Okay, so we're write here why that ID is triple equal to from the basket, and this is coming from the And then what we're going to write this, you're to make it blank like this. So what do I mean something, then return it. But if you can't here like this. Okay, so far, so good, guys, the image from the database. Okay, how do js and use this one here. We're gonna come We're gonna say dollar sign curly bracket, at the result. Okay, the image is huge. You to make it smaller. Let's come back here. with like this equal to, then we're going Okay, save the thing. Let's look at the result. Can you see this one here? Okay, why do we for having three images is that look at look things did you select from the basket? How are the products that you selected from the have the three, which one is missing? That to the homepage. Here's the casual shirt. let's look at the result. You got now four that you don't want t shirts. Remove the t we go. We don't have any casual shirts here. to apply some styles and get the data here so in order to do those things, go back to to create another div with a class name details. this is class name here. I'm really sorry, It should be only class equal to details. going to have two days and one h3 tag. Let we're going to right here dot title minus Okay, minus price minus X STEP. Also give go to the next line. And we're going to create like this look, dot card, minus bu TT o n h3 tags. Okay, something like this. Now, guys, HTML elements. Let me show you guys. Do you if I compare that with the finalized product, have something called casual shirt. We have So using this Dave, this is Dave here. Yeah. three things together. Okay. Next, we have this one here? So easing this one, we're going with the plus minus and the quantity here. to build up this component here. Okay. And the price inside the h3 tag. Okay. So I really the thing. Okay, guys, now let's put some and understandable. Now inside the first one to write here, look at this following with like this. We're going to have two things. we're going to have icon which you read across over to your icons or get bootstrap.com. And to the very bottom. The x is actually here. Click on This one then copy the link. Okay, paste the thing like this. Save the thing. p tag. Okay, first of all, let's give it some you're gonna write dollar sign curly bracket This name is actually coming from the data. we have official, etc. Okay. I really hope Okay, save the thing. Now let's do the result. something like this. Can I see this one? Here? have x here. But don't worry, guys. Even though make the thing look nice. Okay, just follow By the way guys can see this x here. We're right now. So do you see this arm? Where is Now let's go back to your main. Where is it to your style css at the very bottom, okay, then curly bracket. BGC, not BGC. Sorry, this set it to red color, okay? And then we can font weight, we can set it to bold. Okay, the result. Okay? Now you can see that ignore guys. Now let's go back to our VS code after okay, below this p tag, you're going to create okay of the single quantity unit. Okay, so sign curly bracket AG, this dollar sign will Okay. So here we go. Right search dot price. it is coming from the data GS, which is here. back here. And now let's look at the result. is one here. We have the office shirt here, delete button here as well. So far so good, that it looks nice. Okay, in order to make style css not styles here. Sorry. Got HTML. Cart. Copy this thing, okay. Like this. Now bottom here. Let's create a comment. First write exclamatory sign and then we're going paid the thing again, done. Now here you're how do they actually do the finalized project? something called display grid. Okay, this responsive. Look at that. If I hit F to F, it is responsive like that. Okay, so how do column, and each of this card is 320 pixels with our project. Okay, so you're gonna come write display grid, TG tap. On the next line, write one comma y one. Okay. The main reason okay, that's what I have put here, one, then treating the pixel, I mean that the width be 320 pixel. Say the thing guys. Now let's see any changes unless we see some border the border around these cards so that we can Just copy the comment from here and put it for cart item. Where am I getting the cart from here you see this one here? So just copy cart HTML not sorry, not here. style css, dot paste Okay, curly bracket here right here px solid red, not Versailles black, or you this color here Okay, say the thing. Now guys, something like this. Next step guys. We're center we're going to have some gapping between going to make it rounded Okay, in order to shopping cart first of all and then we're going to right here JC see tab okay justify it has come it has moved to the exact center. gap in between these cars. Can I see this gonna right here. gap of 15 pixel okay. 15 result. Okay? There we go, we have to get, it corners rounded. Okay, in order to make here, okay? Then you're going to have border the thing. Let's look at the result. There guys, now look at our image here and the content a column. But we don't want that we want it order to solve the issue, do you know what one, let's come back here. Or we're gonna to write a display flex, DF, tap. Save the like our finalize project here you see brilliant $100 and the X. It is not behaving like a but we want it to behave like a row, something what we're going to do is we're going to first just Karges okay, just make some mistakes use this one here. This is the class name a small error. My apologies, guys. I it is let's fix this one as well. And every time it should only be class, otherwise, it's not guys style minus price minus x. Okay, after css, by the way, guys can see this one here. name. So this is shopping cart here. Yeah, item here, it should match here. So let's for cart minus items. Done, guys. Now let's to add dot paste. Okay, then we're going to right, display flex step, save the thing. look something like this. But guys can see not aligned on the exact center. Okay. So I'm just gonna come back to all my VS code. you keep your eyes here. Okay, and then I'm gonna use AIC tab, the moment I hit the save, exact center right? And next up guys do this here. In order to do that, we're gonna write thing now let's look at the result. Can you Guys? Let me show you a trick. So in order element is not working, always add this border. the entire element here. Can you see this main reason for the X not put coming at the It is locked. Okay? It cannot expand itself. going to do is we're going to give you a way, of 195 pixels. Okay? Say the thing. Let's x now expanding here? Brilliant, guys. So anymore. You can keep it or you can just make we go. It looks nice. But guys, look at this Here. We don't want it here. We want it to here. Yeah. So let's make those necessary So let's go back to your card. Yes. First see this h4 tag? Yeah, we're going to put class. name equal to is going to be double price. So why did I put both the title minutes both the name I mean, the title and the price. So guys, I'm just gonna copy the thing. Let's I'm gonna write dot paste curly bracket. So for the Align items center. Okay, and now It should look something like this. But guys, you see that? So in order to put some gap, minus price here is it okay? So we're gonna now look at this guys. We have a gap of 10 want to style it in a way that it looks nice, with me guys. So where is this actually located? go to your car chase. Okay. Now, where is here. search.com Eyes on the p tag. Yeah. look at this. We're gonna write a class. Okay, item price. Okay? CART minus item minus price. go back to your start at first and save the go back to your style css, okay, and at the Inside of here you go, right, first of all, sell it, select the color, which we specified the thing like this, we're going to want to color to white, something like this. Okay. of a saving, it should look something like and some border area so that it looks nice. come here, and then you're gonna write border Okay? Then we're going to apply some padding six pixel on the left and right, something saving. Now look at that. It looks nice. Okay, is buttons here. Yeah. Do you think that this If you go to the homepage, we actually imported That's why it looks similar. That's why it it. We're just going to copy paste some lines do is you're gonna go to your main js where to open a general shop function. Okay. Now, Here, it can see this one here. So just click Yeah. So following this thread, you just copy the entire thing, just come back to your cart. can just easily remove the thing because we going to paste it, let's say the thing and So in order to give some indentation, do this, div, then you're going to hit Tab like this. cut tab like this, it should look something indent here like this. There we go. Save the Where is it here? Is it okay? There we go. the minus icons, along with the number indicator if you click on the minus is not going to this card Chase. Okay, if I close up this function. That's why it's not going to work. down, can you see this one here? The I hit here, and this is here. Where is it? This though they got it here. It's still not going these functions at the bottom. We're going you see this one here? Yeah, we don't need you're going to remove the thing from here, a better like this. Give me a second. There this. Now, one second that if you scroll up, can just copy the item which is actually coming from? This x is coming from the basket. Okay, to your here quantity. Okay, this right here, save it. Now let's look at the result. Now live. So guys, this number here represents Okay? But still if you click on the plus and to make the thing work. Look at these guys. main Jas. Okay, one second. Let me just close see this increment decrement I'm gonna copy thing, go back to your card. Yes at the bottom, it. First of all do this. You just close it it like this. Okay. Also along with these we can't see the changes on the HTML I mean function. Come back here and then paste the you can also fold it like this. And there saving everything on the card JS Okay, so plus is going to work perfectly fine. Not this one here it is we're also working perfectly on the plus it's working let's click on the fine. Okay. All right guys. There's an issue plus sign works to really fight no problem, I go and hit a zero, the thing this card doesn't thing to remove itself automatically something here, okay? Or let's say, I want to remove removed itself automatically, in order to the solution guys is very, very, very simple. function here. Yeah, first of all, you're generate cart items here? Yeah, just copy here? I'm gonna remove the comment, and then Now look at this. I'm going to save the thing, are project results. So let's go to 03210. is this actually happening? Guys? Let me explain. Yeah. What is it actually doing? Its main has an item of zero. So once it's done filtering using this function here, you see this one cards. So if I scroll up, where is this actually us to? This is going to lead us to the function us to generate these cards. You can see this actually work. Okay, first of all, is going which has an item of zero, and then is going all the cards. Let me show you a live demo. to go to 04321. The next time I hit a minus zero, do you know which line it will run? and then it's going to read render the cars actually works. Look at this. If we click at the center, the card is gone as well. So understood how the mechanics actually work. let's select some products. Okay, so I'm gonna we go. Okay, let's go back to the cart page. finalize project. Okay, look at this. So we is the total price of the item that you selected on the plus like this, look at this, the quantity well. So how do you build a component like along with me. Okay. So we're going to first our card chairs here. Do you see this function, one, okay. So we're going to scroll down slowly. h3 tag? Yeah, we're going to write the thing me. Let me zoom in a little bit. Okay. So to represent the currency. Okay. Then we're Do you remember the item guys with item? Here of all, copy the thing. Okay, then scroll does the item represent? Let me tell you after Can you see this one here? Yeah, 14, this is actually getting represented here. This what do we want, we want the quantity to get one here. This is the price of the unit. This this with the item quantity. And then we will do something like this, let me show you how search God price, copy the thing, scroll down then paste the thing done. Save the thing. we go. Guys can see this one here? Yeah, this it got multiplied, and it gave us the result But here's one thing that we don't expect. We want the press to get update, but it is fine. But everything every time you hit the works, but the plus doesn't work. Why is that solve the issue. First of all, let's look actually close this one like this. Let's look we doing? Every time we click on the minus generate cart item also runs. So why is this helps us to rerender our carts with the app only the minus works but not the plus. In simple, very easy. Just copy the thing, okay? now scroll on guys. Do you see this console paste it like this, save the thing is going look at the result guys. Every time you click working perfectly fine. You see now let's working. Brilliant. Okay. All right, guys. here. Yeah, we're going to make a function on this one is going to remove the entire up. So in order to build that up, go back we're gonna write, we're gonna write a function, is going to be es six arrow function like the ID. So why did I pass the ID? Let me tell How will JavaScript exactly know that which ID in all of these cars has a unique ID, okay? the thing. Okay, that's why I have included need to copy this and invoke it in the place Okay. Do you see this one here? Yeah, title here, okay. So on the icon you're gonna hit okay. Pay is the thing invoked here. Next copy the ID scroll down, you're gonna write in order to test whether the thing actually here, look at this. Okay? Then you're going Item. Item equal to id. Okay, guys, next up, we got it selected item like the same thing. 12. Again, let's go to the console. Every currency doesn't here, we got the entire HTML want. We want only the Id only the unique So in order to hire only that, we're going thing, just look at the result. Okay, there Here, we can only get the unique ID for which of these cards, something like this. You see, see this console here? I mean, this this data remove that thing. Okay. So in order to remove items. Okay, here is the console. Let's remove kind of odd. Okay. Once that's done, guys, Where is it? Here's the console. Okay, let's at the result. Okay? Every time, every time happen? Every time I click on the cross is storage? Let me show you. So if I go back 19. Okay, this is a quantity of 90 Here is the X, I want to remove this entire object going to use something called a filter function. we're gonna right here basket, okay, basket I'm going to use a es six arrow function inside you can write anything, no problem in arguments, X. Okay? So inside the X, what we're going because there's the thing that is only unique, doing is that in this x of the filter function, one. And since I targeted the ID here, what all the ID. Okay, so now, let's come back to selected item.id, which is this one, okay? Okay? So what this will do is that which ever to do is is going to remove that thing. It's then it's going to update our basket. Okay, only but we also want the update to go to do that, just open up either one of them increment you have a line called local storage dot set Okay? Just copy the thing, scroll down. Do phase, the thing like this, okay, done. Save Okay, if you come back here, let's click on ways is actually here. Every time you click goes away. But the object itself, I mean, away every time you refresh the page, but update itself automatically. So in order to is very simple, guys, we're gonna re render all of our cards every time we select the copy this thing, okay? Copy the thing, scroll save the thing. Now, guys, let's look at the casual shirt, I don't need the casual shirt. we go. It is removing here and reviewing, this one like this. There we go, is removing But guys, look at this candidate is on here, we don't have any data here. Okay, let's go Something like this. And now let's go to the test it again. Let's click on here is going So far, so good, guys. Now, guys, let's look you see this component here? Yeah, total bill this button. I mean, we're going to make this like this follow along with me, guys, we're name it total amount so that it can calculate we're gonna make an ESX error function, let an ESX error function like this, something we're gonna have two cases. The first case And the other cases when we don't have any this one. Let me show you. Just like the generic Two cases. So the first case is when we have case is when we don't have any data on the going to have two cases instead, the total dot length is not equal to zero, run this So why else return we mean that don't do anything, inside this curly bracket, we're going to we're going to target the basket, and we're gonna write basket dot map. Okay. So why am me tell you the main reasons for mapping the thing? I mean, the mapping the basket is that storage here, yeah, look at this. Do you see have the item. Okay, we already have the item, ID, can you see this on here? What is this? to go and search inside our data. Gs where's that ID, which is the I O Y key and this is inside our data Jas, and then we're going the price. From there, we're going to multiply price. I really, really, really hope that going to show you the live sample. Okay. So come here and then I'm right here bracket, but let's keep it simple. We're gonna write pass X, okay. Now curly bracket. Now you can destructure the X and how does it happen? can separate the thing like this look, we're write here let okay? Let curly bracket equal then write it m comma ID. Okay? Save the thing. to do is using this ID, we're going to search to write anything if you recall, if you go cart items, you can easily get the function just copy the thing because it already exists the search function, then you're gonna just total amount function, okay? Just paste the actually doing? It is using the ID to match look at this, okay, one second. For an example. getting stored inside, where is it? It's actually search, what it will do is, is going to search in the, I'm in the database, okay? Which is hope that you understood what do I mean by do is we're going to return look at this, the way, let me actually show you what the storage here, this item here two to three, called Search dot price. Look at this. So multiply search dot price. This price is actually so now look at this guys. I'm going to console Okay? So in order to console log, the thing, dot log. Sorry, guys, not here. Cut the thing the else statement here. Okay, paste the thing, Yeah, copy the amount, put it here. Like they Okay. By the way, guys, it will actually not the thing, scroll down and put it here like Let's look at the result, guys. Now let's 200 607 75. So how is this coming? This is of this one's can see this one here. The 600 so we got all the all the total prices have you know what I'm going to do next? I'm going to do that, what we're going to do is use put a dot Okay, we're gonna use the reduce you're gonna hit es six arrow function, okay, hit X comma Y. Okay. Next up, guys, you add me tell you, the x is the the X guys is the So what is doing is by x&amp;y, I mean that add So that's why I wrote here, x comma y and I want this thing to start from zero. That's the thing. Now guys, let's look at the result. gave us the calculation, the total calculation is complete. Now we're going to implement Okay? In order to make something like this, do you see this one here? Either comment or a thing. And then I'm gonna scroll to the the thing there, scroll down to your total the thing, okay, then you go right hit dot literal. So you're going to hit backtick. write h2 tab. Okay, then guys, you're gonna have dollar sign for the currency and then amount, okay? This amount is actually coming thing guys now guys, let's do the result. total bill here. Can you see this one here? to do is we're going to have two buttons. Cart button. Yeah, we're going to build these and make those things. So what you're gonna a button Okay, look at this video TT o n. at this dot C, H, E C K, O ut checkout cap. name. So remove the name from here. Only keep to write check out c h e CK or yearly check we're going to have another button with a o n dot remove. Oh, okay tab. Now again guys the name from here save the thing. And also like this, save the thing. Let's look at his It is not styled. Let's start the thing. Okay. here. Now guys, you're gonna go to your style a specific selector that we already selected. just search for the thing. It's actually the So you don't have to write all the styles a comma here. Okay, and then dot paste done. look something like this. Can you see that? the clear Card button as well. Follow along GS, copy the remove all come back to your done, save the thing. Let's look at the result. I want the thing to be in green color, just red color. So in order to do those things, scroll down and put it here like this dot VGC tab is going to be which color green, copy that thing. Scroll down, or dot paste going to be red. There we go save the thing. we go. Guys. It looks just like our finalize looks totally identical. Next up, guys. Guys, problem. Every time you click on the plus, and the price actually increases. But can itself. So guys, in order to update this thing, very simple. Guys, just come over here and amount? Copy this thing? Okay. And then guys, me just fold the thing like this, where's I see this one here? Just open the thing. just invoke the thing here like this. There the result. Okay, every time. This is the the plus like this, look at that. It's updating Okay, brilliant. Now, guys, here's actually 29. Here. Yeah, 2900. Actually, this 100 Every going away. But it's not actually upgrading be 2800. But it's not updating itself automatically only then it refreshes. I mean, only then that we don't want in order to fix that. Where is actually remove it right? So copy this this one. And do you see this one? Generic this, save the thing. Let's look at the result. Okay, 2800. Every time you click on the cross, the thing here as well. So guys is working the homepage. Let's select some data. Okay, Let's go back to the cart page here. The next cart feature. Okay, every time we click on entire thing at the same time. Do you see local storage we also want the entire thing that follow along with me guys, come back item or anywhere okay, you can write the function clear car, okay, lead clear car, okay, it's Okay, next up guys look at this, we're going to make an empty array it means that whatever Okay, so guys, once we are done removing all re render the cards in order to re render copy the thing scroll down and put it here also need to update the local storage as well. open the decrement or the increment lights copy the thing from here. There are close paste the thing here like this and save the cart as well copy the thing scroll down do where's your remove all it is here can see guys, what we're gonna do is we're gonna right quote. Then we We're going to invoke the clear guys. Now, guys, let's go and test our result. click on one second, let me also open up a data on the local storage, we have some build time we click on a clear card is going to gone. And the cart, I mean, and the cart page we have only one but back to Home button. can select some products like this. There go back to our cart page. And now let's go it's working perfectly fine. Okay, let's click thing. At the same time. If you click on the brilliant. On the far less project, you can So what we're going to do is we're going to here. But before doing that, we have some to fix. The first problem is with the nav Let me show you what I mean by that. Okay, style css, and then what I'm gonna do is use this code. Okay, I'm gonna save it. Now let's the clothing store and the icon, they are if you want to fix that, you just gonna come save the thing. Now let's look at the result. so I'm going to bring this code back, save the cart page. But before going there, first selected here. And then you're gonna go to How many quantity do we have on the basket Okay, so I'm going to remove this one. Okay. card? It has just five. Okay, so it is 24. is going to be 19. So let's remove the thing. been 19. But it's not doing the subtraction I refresh the page like that. There we go. So if you want to fix that, where is this The problem is with the function named remove you're gonna do is you're gonna go to VS code, here is your function remove item, you're going to scroll up there is this calculation put it here like this. Okay, save the thing. what we're gonna do is we're gonna remove is five. So how much is here? 19. So 19 minus one. Let's see the result. Okay, there we is solved. Let's look at the third problem. click on this one, what do I want? I want happen. Let me show you what I mean by that. Now look at that. It's still 14, but it should going to be zero. So guys, the problem is go find it and fix that. Okay, so I'm going cart this here. Do you remember this one calculation, Okay, save it. Now let's look at the result. have to go back to home, and then we have Now, let's go back. How many items can you There we go. It's now back to zero. Perfect. go back to our VS code, and then scroll to here, generic card items, open up this one. Search dot name and search dot price? What thing and make it shorter. Let me show you here and then I'm gonna right here lead clearly what was the last thing is price. So I'm going search, okay, copy that, put it here like search dot image anymore. Okay, we can remove we go. Done. Save the thing. Now let's look result. Okay, to see the result let me just go to the cart page like that. There we go. same results. And by the way, guys, what is So this is called destructuring, and object. other product cards inside our project. Before the local storage, okay, just right click application, wait a second, let me open up local storage, okay, so now we have to delete you're gonna do the thing. Okay, next up, the link of this GitHub repository in the here, then you can realize that it has three main branch, we have the entire source code, this is product images here. I'm going to this branch carry? Let me show you inside Okay. So if I come back here, we have also one, then it carries all the data of our product all the data are actually inside this data. we're going to download this thing. Okay? Okay. So guys, once it downloads, open the your Dexter, okay, then what you're going like this. Okay, next up, go inside here. a folder and a file called dlgs. Okay, so it outside like this. Okay, there we go. Alright, images and the data inside our project folder you're gonna find a message like this, replace click OK, like this. So what it's going to files from our project. Now we can delete our VS code, okay, now you can realize that 12 images, okay. And then we also have a file going to do is, look at this, do you see this you see this one array, so come here, and the entire thing. Now you're what you're gonna actually situated inside your source, okay, to the very bottom, and then paste the code look at this, we have all of our data stored now come here, and what you're gonna do is Okay? This is coming from the GitHub. Okay? look at the result. Okay, our result will have how many cards in total, we have 12 product problems with our cards. Let's look at this image they're overlapping with each other going to fix that. At the same time. Look bottom, just like the finalist project, look implement those things. So let's go back to going to find that selector with the class is you're gonna right here in between the let's look at the result, it will look something if you want to adjust the gap, you can do can also put here 50 pixel like this, save at that we have a big gap here. Next up, let's do that? Very simple, very easy. Go back to for a selector called dot item, which is actually inside the selector. So how do you select Look at that. You're going to right here dot Now inside here, what we're going to write 100%. Let's say the thing there. Let's look that the border and the image are not overlapping problem. If I zoom in like this, look at that. Yeah, it's pointy corner. But actually, our what we're going to do is we're going to go radius, okay? Border Radius. Okay, radius, show you something. Okay. So we want to make want the thing to round it here. And here. So what we're gonna do is we're going to come first to pixel again, then 00. So what do This is the top right corner, this is the save the thing. Let us look at the result. rounded and this one as well but not the bottom our project is complete. I really, really, tutorial. If you liked the video, give a like till then take care and I'll see you in the