Neoflam, a kitchenware company located in Wonju-si, Gangwon-do, South Korea This company was founded in 1990 and specializes in manufacturing ceramic cookware. Today, this factory produces ceramic-coated frying pans made of cast aluminum. &quot;We'll make sure you leave work looking the same as you did when you came to work!&quot; Pure aluminum ingot This elevator can lift about 1 ton of aluminum. Put aluminum into the melting furnace. Melts about 20 tons of aluminum per day. Melting furnace Melts aluminum at a hot 850 degrees Celsius. It was hot enough to melt the camera lens :) The upper part of the melting furnace is used to remove dust generated during operation. A special bucket to hold the molten aluminum Put the molten aluminum into the bucket. This is a task that requires caution as hot aluminum can splatter. About 800kg of aluminum goes in. Removing impurities Inject nitrogen into the aluminum through a pipe. The nitrogen injection brings the oxides to the upper surface. The impurities that rise to the surface are scooped out with a shovel. Purification complete The hot aluminum is moved to the forming machine before it cools down. Aluminum Dosing Furnace Pour aluminum into the dosing inlet. About 450kg of aluminum goes in at once. Cleanly pour every last drop :) Casting Machine Injection Unit Sparks are generated when the lubricant and molten metal react. The process of pushing molten aluminum into the frying pan mold. Forming Spray lubricant to help the frying pan come off the mold easily. Object recognition sensor By-product removal Move the casting to the robot facility for a safe production process. The basics of the frying pan shape that we are familiar with. Various castings are produced on multiple injection molding machines. pressing process Removing foreign substances with an air gun. Stainless steel disc The strong pressure of the press machine presses the disk plate to the bottom of the frying pan. Check carefully if it is well pressed. Polishing process Outer diameter Polishing Remove fine protrusions on the outer surface with 'sandpaper'. Trim the edges neatly too :) Inner diameter polishing Refinish the sharp parts with sandpaper. Handle joint punching Apply stearic acid to make the drill bit smooth. Remove dirt and fine scratches with a sanding machine. 'Flower pad' to protect the frying pan Prevents scratches caused by objects hitting each other. Sandblasting Process Fix the frying pan on the turntable. This process sprays sand on the surface of the frying pan with strong pressure to increase the coating adhesion. Smooth casting surface Washing Process Wash the casting cleanly for 10 minutes using water, alkaline solution, and degreaser. Frying pan after cleaning Remove remaining moisture with an air gun. masking pipe A tool that prevents the handle from being coated when coating the inside of a frying pan. Object detection sensor Interior coating High-quality ceramic coating is used here. Spraying every 3.5 seconds. The coating process is the most important process because it determines the quality of the frying pan. A total of 15 sprays are evenly sprayed on the inner coating only. Inner coating meticulously applied The inner coating is dried in a high-temperature furnace at 180 degrees Celsius. A complete ceramic coating film is formed through drying. Remove the internal coating that has been applied to the outside with a circular sandpaper. External coating Use a ceramic coating paint developed here. Excellent wear resistance, hardness, and easy to clean of contaminants. Spray with a total of 18 sprays. If you touch the frying pan while it is not dry, You will get a defect, so use a tool. 2nd drying Inspection Coated frying pan Handle assembly and packaging line Solid wood handle of ash tree Individual packaging Hands are really fast :) Box Packaging 6 frying pans in one box. This company produces about 12 million kitchenware items a year. It exports to over 70 countries around the world and is recognized as a representative Korean cookware brand. 180 degree high temperature egg non-stick test Eggs do not stick even without oil. Wear resistance test with a dishwashing sponge Rub with a dishwashing sponge for 15 minutes. No scratches at all!! Environmentally friendly ceramic coating frying pan that you can use with confidence is complete!