JAMES GRIME: So recently, we had We had that new prime number And it was the biggest prime And it was big news. And we were all quite It was lots of fun. But it got me thinking about one mathematics, and that is the infinitely many primes. So even though we found this number, it is still not the Because there's infinitely So shall we do this So I'll say before I start that this proof before. It goes way back. But for those who haven't seen mathematicians consider an So we're going to prove To do that, first of to assume the opposite. So I'm going to say there are So if there's finitely many of And let's do that. And I'm going to call Don't know what it is it prime 1. Prime 2, prime 3, and I'll just last one, which I'll The point I want to make, complete list. So that's important. OK, the next thing I'm going to make It's a whole number. I'm going to call it Q. So let's this number, I'm going to prime 1 times prime 2 times last one there, prime n. So there'll be only one way to primes, it's a unique So there's only one way And then I'm going to add 1. Q is either prime, That's the only options If Q is prime, then it's a new That's bad. So hopefully, it's If it's not a prime, then it multiplying primes together. Now, those prime factors of And here's the problem-- none of these primes on my They'll divide this number not this plus 1 number. You'll always have So the prime factors are So this list is not complete. I said if there's finitely many complete list. You cannot. And that's the proof infinitely many primes. So the definition of a prime blocks of other numbers. So all other whole numbers multiplying primes together. So Q is a whole number, multiplying primes together. And in this case, the problem list do that trick. They don't divide the So there's primes missing. What I've got here is a copy Elements.&quot; And this is a mathematician called Euclid. Now, Euclid lived in 300 BC. So this textbook is It's never been out of print. And it's second only to the It's one of the most important It's one of the most important And the proof that there primes is in here. And I checked it out earlier. It was on page 227, which is And it is right there, the infinitely many primes. There's a couple of differences what I did. One difference is my proof there proof by contradiction. It's something that It's really useful. What Euclid did was slightly He assumed that there was And he said, but you can So you can never complete same sort of idea. The other difference is that days before algebra. So he didn't have algebra So all his proofs are using So it looks quite different, but to translate into You see, mathematics is And this book is as true today We know a prime number can itself, by no other factors, so It's actually in here. I was quite excited So let's have a look. In Definitions-- look here-- at the Seven, he defines terms. Look at that. &quot;A prime number is that which is So only units fit into It was all measured with lines, prime can only fit You can't fit 2's and 3's and So if we had something that let's make it 7. There we go-- then you can fit 1's into it-- 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. But you wouldn't be able So here's a 2. And that would not fit Or if I tried 4's or 3's, it So a prime length would only fit And that's the definition BRADY HARAN: So what does that that was found? It's just-- JAMES GRIME: It's tiny. That new prime number, 17 Tiny. Nothing. Insignificant. To the whole infinity of prime BRADY HARAN: My understanding less frequent the Their density becomes lower. Does that mean the next prime way away from those JAMES GRIME: They become You are right about that. And there's-- we're getting into other But there are some fantastic how the prime numbers are spaced prime numbers. But we are slipping into BRADY HARAN: Sounds like JAMES GRIME: It does sound It'll be a good one, as well.