Sexual sin is one is so easy for And it doesn't For some it's what they For others it's the apps they For unmarried crossing boundaries And for married couples it And something that I see today is many Christians losing to And this constant people feeling And many times they make promises to never But oftentimes as time And they slip sin where they sin, So they try again to be met with And as this cycle continues One, Christians either have pent up frustration because they And they live life feeling Or two, rather than to accept that So they no longer try to Because why try if they can never win. So if you can relate to And in the same way you can There is a cycle of that can free them from the This cycle can be thought of as a victory program against lust and it comes in these Step number one, see 1 verses 27 to 28. So image. In the image and female he created This passage is found in the very first chapter of the Bible, And the first thing created them is to read in chapter 2 made beautiful trees And it wasn't until gave Adam the the tree of is what I want you a command to obey, showed Adam what kind of that he's someone care of Adam. And the when it comes to times in our focused on the task to stay away from And for people who purity should not be obtain. It needs to heart. Let me help using Jesus as an was here on earth, enemies, love God mind, and strength, and But mind you, came to earth, he &quot;Look at me. Look at how I've healed you, taught you, and how after Jesus died on &quot;Look at my body for you. Look at the for you, and then mercy that I always many times pure, and they forget He gave them. And it comes to obeying God gave Adam, the entire Bible, God and God blessed Him, Him. So for you, the temptation, at that to stop,&quot; or &quot;I need &quot;God has a heart for me.&quot; You see, what's more important is the heart in which concept in the New chapter 2 verse 4, of His goodness, not knowing that the to repentance?&quot; So of Romans, says that repentance. And here greater obedience, would say one of the can do is to only fail to remember And the reason why is because should the command soon say, don't separate Because before God obedient to, He first him and to take care case, when the time temptation, one of come into our minds you and He loves call for you to be alone. It was meant absolute adoration so strongly desires two, see God's three to four, &quot;And the Lord called to &quot;Thus you shall say to the house &quot;You have seen what how I bore you on &quot;myself.&quot; In this people of Israel from were all going the promised land, God commandments. But before He gives them in chapter 20, God in to speak for Him. And God says to the children of Israel, &quot;see how I made the I brought you here in Genesis before He showed Adam that We see a repetition before God gives the chapter 20, in of how much He's deliverer to lead plagues on the so that they can cloud during the leads them with fire gives them manna from of people, and gives thirst. And God did the 10 commandments. tablets that contained &quot;Look what I did you to myself.&quot; And gratitude comes victory. You see, when temptation, as you the next step is to and then to thank Thessalonians chapter give thanks in have been Israel's miraculous wonders behalf. And the you try to defeat the opposite of &quot;I want, I want, I tells you, &quot;I have, I when we thank God repeatedly is that it develops the mentality and to tell it, &quot;I enough.&quot; So again, in lust, don't think, &quot;I need to stop,&quot; instead think, &quot;Thank isn't to be you,&quot; it needs to be He's given you. gave Israel blessing that God has given the time to stop and a big part of victory it a habit to respond So again, remember, when God gave the Ten Commandments before He look at what He's done for them. So don't just fixate on what God's done for part of your life. sword. Ephesians the helmet of Spirit, which is the word tells the Ephesian Spirit, which is the to teach you what taught me that the word &quot;word.&quot; One where it says, &quot;In And the word for &quot;word&quot; in this case is &quot;logos.&quot; And part of the seeing the entirety the word for &quot;word&quot; in is &quot;rema.&quot; And mentor taught me that Because God here in 17 isn't telling the Bible, he's telling word in specific did this perfectly when he was tempted every temptation that Satan gave, Jesus responded with the Bible &quot;Man shall not live tempt the Lord your the Lord your God.&quot; verse 17 and in Matthew truth that is lust, and it's this, counter verses. So fighting move, arm lock, there are designed to counter Jesus was tempted, different Bible temptation. So for lust is the sin that like Jesus, you need that will help you way you can do memorizing verses is make the verse your or you can write it pocket, or create a shower or go inside to a verse to help this over and over memorized, and then lust, I'd recommend 1 18, Romans chapter of God found in recommended that you have multiple verses covered because many waves. So it would multiple safeguards that Step number four, chapter 5 verses 8 darkness, but now you as children of light the unfruitful works them.&quot; In these walk as children of light and to not have anything to do with works that darkness. And them to not people. And Paul expose not people, I say this is because to expose their own light. And one of the hardest parts to fighting against lust exposing the works of And that comes in confession to not well. I know of many against their sexual to their own regular victory regularly bring their their struggles to part of walking as things in darkness. darkness is to sin light would mean to to ask for help. And I out in the light the form it needs to of help needed. For some, having one accountability partner is you confess that sin has more experience struggling with an addiction lasting for multiple years, it may be the church in a program that Regardless, if a lust, regularly commit by people who can help to have victory. And embrace God's verses 1 and 3. Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the which also you received and in which you stand. For I that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins In this passage, declares the gospel is this, that whether the sins we the reality is that we're all sinners in need of a savior. And all of us need Jesus You see, Christians and the gospel tells own good works and my don't save me. The faith in Jesus that not my own works of to sin, you must that despite your heart for you and God when it comes to about to tell you weird, but hear me against sexual sin, you falling to sin. And if you try to be yourself that you'll sin again, odds are if or when that lose motivation feel like you're the reason why I'm okay with failing is having victory is God's gospel. And someone who embraces fails and they commit ugliness and the And instead of they immediately go this sin is why that they aren't but based on their they remember that and that God still that knowledge, they that will fall to against sin. So they fell and they use they can combat it fall the same way. And to take further measures, they also tell there's a greater again. And if a sin does gospel and they God's gospel is the key the freedom to fall. probably fall. I gospel and victory from sexual God's love, we'll find that we need to obtain. result of us loving defeat lust? There's see God's blessings, light, and embrace helps you in your you fight, should the remember that no always go back to reason why Jesus died. And the reason why he died is because Jesus loves