Do you have difficulty concentrating, trouble Are you irritable? Do you have angry outbursts? If yes, you might have the hyperarousal symptoms can persist long after the trauma. So what can you do about it? I'm going to walk you through it. My name is Barbara Heffernan and I have been their lives by recovering from anxiety and to help more people do the same. So I'm really hoping these videos are helpful of these videos. If you would subscribe to my channel, give and let me know what you think about it. All of those things are super helpful. So while hyperarousal can be incredibly tenacious, begin to feel better and that will help you And I'm going to outline six of those steps And for a diagnosis of PTSD, there are intrusive are hyperarousal symptoms and there are changes you think about yourself or the world from things are needed for a PTSD diagnosis. And I do talk about that a little bit more in the video that I'll link here called PTSD videos asked me to do a video on PTSD hyperarousal that reason. So just so you know, if you do have a request you, put a comment below this video and I produce a video if needed to answer the question. So I'm going to show you here the hyperarousal Reckless or self destructive behavior, hypervigilance startle response. Something happens, you hear a loud noise and Irritability and angry outbursts, difficulty If you have two or more of these symptoms, a PTSD diagnosis, so trauma treatment really One track is that the physiological reactivity then the other track is that the trauma needs to be processed and the avoidance needs to self need to change. And for all of this, EMDR is just an awesome videos. I will link a playlist over here. EMDR is the most effective technique I've by the world health organization. It's approved by the department of defense. It's approved by some very conservative organizations, treatment and there is a lot of research behind I'm going to show you a little diagram right if you're having intrusive symptoms, those the intrusive symptoms are nightmares, intrusive the trauma impeding on your brain and it's So I think it's easy to understand that until be very hard to calm down the hyper arousal Similarly, cognitions, negative beliefs about I'm incapable or I'm worthless. Those things are going to stimulate a hyper And then if the negative beliefs are about Obviously that's going to stimulate hyperarousal. And then similarly, avoidance. I do talk about how avoidance makes everything So all of these things cycle together and The six steps to recover from hyperarousal Number one, learn diaphragmatic breathing. Critically important. It is so important to learn and make sure a regular mode, that that is your default So my recommendation to clients is that they a day every day. And it can be just for like five minutes at It can be when you're in your office, when nobody will notice that you're doing it. And it's very important to practice it regularly it becomes your default mode. Now I do offer a free mini course, I call diaphragmatic breathing and a couple of these But there are also tons of videos on YouTube So that is something you can do today. Either sign up for my course or Google on on YouTube? Anyway, stick into the search bar of YouTube, learning how to do it and then practice it Number two, progressive muscle relaxation. Again, there's a ton of YouTube videos on Find one you like and do it once a day. So both of these things are techniques and relax and understand what it is to be in a And if you've been experiencing hyper arousal alien to you and your body and all of these practice. You are rewiring how your brain works, you're It takes practice just like learning to play All of these things take practice, muscle thinking and the body so that soon it becomes That's what we're aiming for. Set number three, address the self destructive Now if you are engaging in high risk behaviors, in a high risk sport that you're not trained If you're engaging in something that is sort arousal symptoms will go away. Now, I'm not saying that people can't participate regularly in extreme sports tend to be trained learn to do it in a safer way as possible. You know what high risk behaviors are and can be risky drug use, there's all sorts of going to keep you in a hyper arousal state So those need to be addressed first. And how do you address them? Well that depends a little bit on what type with and how extensive they are. If it's not too extensive and they're not back yourself, get help from a friend, a spouse, also might need to utilize the help of a therapist. 12 step recovery programs, eating disorder and then also an EMDR therapist. There are some EMDR protocols that can help Number four, address irritability and angry Again, here, if you are constantly irritable, are never exactly the way you want them to relax. And if you have angry outbursts then similar to be very hard to eliminate or even lower in something which is risky, which is stimulating So sometimes we feel like if we get angry acting out in anger generally only creates mode of being. So how do you stop irritability and angry Behavioral changes are actually necessary So what you do is as important as what you're recovery. One of the key things for angry outbursts which we get reactive is to stop, You might've heard this expression as stop, five and breathe. So stopping what you're doing. Count to five in your head slowly and breathe. Bring up that diaphragmatic breathing and want to have. It's really one of the most incredible tools classes and there are therapists who specialize key hyperarousal symptoms. Number five, yoga, meditation and exercise. These things are all fairly inexpensive. Some of them can be done almost for free and You don't have to do all three of them, but them. And meditation can be very hard for people So if you are interested in my doing a video are some tools for meditation that are particularly And I understand it can be a difficult thing and you begin to relax, that sometimes when attacks can happen, thoughts can race - a But as you learned meditation, mindfulness, help and yoga can actually be an easier entre and anxiety because it is a physical movement fully into the present moment and into your So yoga is an awesome tool for trauma recovery flight response out, via running, jogging, you like to do is an awesome way to release hyper arousal symptoms. And step number six, which is really the key you are safe. So even right now, just right now at this look around you and I assume you're in a safe place or you want you to take in what that safety feels breathe in, what that safety feels like. just breathe it in. And one of the tools that I teach in that the safe place exercise. So again, that link's below. So as I moved towards the end of this video, relaxation intersects with processing the And it intersects with stopping the reckless And all three of those things go together. And once you've processed your trauma and no longer having intrusive thoughts, you're you have processed it through you're working then the hyper arousal symptoms will gradually they will take a lot of practice, but it can You can get to the point where you feel safe So one last thing before I end. I do work with a handful of people one-on-one So if you are interested and would like a And I'd love to hear what you think of this I'd love it if you would give me a thumbs forward to seeing you the next time.