There's a lot of mathematics in physics, the difference between the math that we use any difference? Or could it be that they're That's what we'll talk about today. I noticed in the comments to my earlier video oh, numbers are not real. But of course numbers Here's why. You probably think I am "real". being standing in front of a green screen isn't silent explains your observations. any other hypothesis, for example, that I'm be better looking, or that I'm a hallucination, German und das macht irgendwie keinen Sinn We use the same notion of "reality" in a good explanation for our observations. I Right Way to define reality, it's just for actually see elementary particles, like the are real because certain mathematical structures Same thing with gravitational waves, or black And numbers are just like that. Of course around, but as attributes of objects, like not a thing in and by itself. If you see three it's real. Again, if that is not a notion okay, but then I challenge you to come up and agrees with how most people actually use Interestingly enough, not all numbers are But if you look at all numbers with infinitely actually need all those digits to describe with infinite accuracy. In reality we only all these numbers with infinitely many digits odd as it may sound, we don't know whether But of course physics is more difficult than in the universe is made of 25 particles, held the electromagnetic force, and the strong their forces can be mathematically described and Quantum Field Theory, theories which have we observe. For what the science is concerned, I'd say like "what is space-time?" "what is do with questions like this. Space-time is a mathematical structure that structure is defined by its properties. Space-time signature, it has a distance measure, it has We call it "real" because it correctly It's a similar story for the particles. that transforms under certain irreducible the best answer we have to the question what "real" because they correctly describe So when physicists say that space-time is that a certain mathematical structure correctly to find this unsatisfactory. Now that may simple answer and there just isn't one. that they intuitively think there must be that distinguishes the math from the physics. Stephen Hawking put it "Breathes fire into But those mathematical structures in our theories means just going by the evidence, you don't that reality actually is math, that there is not in conflict with any observation. The to Plato, which is why it's often called mathematical forms are somehow beyond human given a modern formulation by Max Tegmark Tegmark's hypothesis is actually more, shall that actually reality is math but that all in the theories that describe our observations, sets, the number 18, they're all real as But should you believe Tegmark? Well, as we for calling some mathematical structures real means we have no rationale for talking about what we observe, therefore the mathematical is generally the case for all types of the this argue that unobservable universes are because you have math for something doesn't real, but this is unnecessary to describe Let me be clear that this doesn't mean it's function exists, or there are infinitely many just that this is a belief-based statement, is to claim that science says so. Then what about the question whether we are hypothesis. Suppose you had an observation always be that you just haven't found the of math is also not wrong but unscientific. no evidence for or against it. these videos to convince you to share my opinion. that I think are thought-stimulating, and will give you something interesting to think This video was sponsored by Brilliant, which of courses on science and mathematics. The a tiny part of all the known mathematics, is in the world of mathematics, Brilliant interactive so you'll be challenged with check your understanding. If you liked this their Mathematical Fundamentals course, which algebra. To support this channel and learn more about and sign up for free. The first 200 subscribers annual premium subscription.