Warner Animation is a bit... All over the There's the dystopian themes of The into Scooby Doo. Space Jam psyoping an entire There are lots of jokes that flew right WickedBinge. And these are Warner Animated Let's start this off at the studio's most iconic movie... From Commercial Beginnings actually not the first time Bugs Bunny and legitimate Nike commercial in the '90s basketball bullies-and absolutely actually be right about this being Self-promotion...sort of throughout to the movie's producer, Ivan his connection to Bill Murray is the reason the only thing dirty about this 2001: a Space Jam Odyssey Moron Mountain, there's a brief reference to the Jerry Krause, Certified Supervillain Dance" has raised speculation amongst NBA and Devito's villainous role in this movie- Jerry Krause-whom Jordan was known to butt hey, at least you got to be played by Union Rights surprising amount of references to workers' to him and Bugs lamenting that Jordan makes White guys can't dunk Murray that he probably can't play in the NBA, it's because he's white- Well, maybe the next But first, a word from our sponsor(s) joke from the movie. In one scene, Michael in just one sentence, ties all of Sponsors aside...is it really a good idea to Secret Steroids Bunny to get his teammates pumped up, he uses a water is full of steroids, calling it "Michael's out his inner Lance Armstrong, saying it goes A Dig at the Ducks In one scene, Daffy questions what kind themselves the Ducks...just a couple years after odd that Daffy Duck considers the Ducks to be an Smoking a Trombone basketball rivals is seen smoking out the need to make it a trombone? Kids know what Bugs Roasting the Audience fourth wall by telling Michael Jordan Looney Tunes-horrified at the concept of bug-eyed, fat-headed, humor-challenged and we're laughing at you, then what "We've got ballth!" Charles Barkley's prayer spread about Charles Barkley having an affair with he was able to poke some fun at the gossip; and promises in return that A Pulp Fiction Reference? in a crossover between Bugs Bunny and the top of anyone's list of expectations. But in any black suits to take care of one of the monsters, Wrong kind of Branding... by Warner Bros. Entertainment. If that weren't butt. This raises MANY questions, but perhaps Something Weird Danny Devito-I mean, Swackhammer's minions Due to their squirming, a woman comments that in his trench coat. Keep it in your pants, Patrick Ewing's Skills ends up visiting a doctor for consultation after covers his bases by asking if there are any other quickly and defensively responds with a negative. Lola bunny. Just...Lola Bunny. about Michael Jordan playing basketball with is still this weirdly sexualized rabbit woman. If call your attention to Bugs getting a full-body One could argue the amount of one character is responsible for should Now, everybody get ready to take a trip The New York Buffalo Wing Festival: Origins treating your body better-at least to some was more impacted by a throwaway line from the New York Buffalo Wing Festival was Completely unexplained Pikachu cameo of the many germs inside Frank's plush. Either Frank must've eaten too OR Pokemon is hugely popular with DNABoy Magazine there's a character reading a magazine that it has strands of DNA instead of naked of that in this universe, but we're sure that Godfather Parody Osmosis Jones has a parody of it featuring not gonna be a time to say this that's better Thrax is unironically Terrifying Named after a rare-but-deadly disease of the most morbid villains to ever his only goal is to destroy his hosts' bodies single chromosome of his departed victims. That's Literal founding father reading "our founder" can be seen-the statue in bold joke that doubles as something technically Gonad's Gym label we see a label that says "Gonad's are the primary reproductive organs in the human the gym scene itself was cut for friendly. There's a couple other things that Tom Colonic's Campaign Ad 180 degrees in one of his ads. This might seem but later on, we see the same boy in a casually snapped a child's neck to build his Nightmare Theater is portrayed as a movie theater with him. The most notorious is called "Your Worst Shane in a wedding dress next to his slob of points for honesty-it's DEFINITELY going Uvula joke The words "uvula" and "vulva" are of "dangly thing" makes Ozzy mistake it "The chicks line up to divide with me!" girl wants to "divide" with him is the much he gets laid-and likewise, a girl telling HIMSELF is clearly referring to masturbation. You say WHAT'S mandatory?! a performance from Kidney Rock-a pun Cool." One of the lyrics in the song, is literally "young ladies, young ladies, I like but I say it's MANDATORY!" I feel uneasy even Jones 2, where Kidney Rock collabs with Next, let's walk a little closer to to talk about the cinematic Would you do it for a Doobie Snack? having a realllllll chill time in the Mystery clear enough stoner reference, they start playing the one that was in Stranger Things? Yeah, Shaggy's relationship to "Mary Jane" interest in a girl named Mary Jane-a street name Beans...? most compelling in this movie is Fred suggesting beans" at a Christmas party. Yeah...there are really Where Shaggy and Scooby DON'T go Shaggy and Scooby from visiting: haunted, spooky, with one of those words? Well, "spooky" you meant hydrocolonic. It's, um...basically a cleansing. The only question now is why Scooby and Mr. Mononucleosis Fred butchers Mr. Mondavarious's name as "Mr. Fred's a bit too excited... Fred ends up getting VERY excited when he can look at himself naked. It's surprisingly his chest later on. Looks like he's found a new Poor Daphne... by Fred while he was in her body wasn't ghost for supposedly an hour and a half. Someone Eyes up here, seat neighbor Can this movie's cast go five seconds the guy sitting next to her is looking What a gentleman of only caring about women for their bodies, chicks like her turn him on too. Coming soon to a bookstore near you... Don't miss Fred's generation-defining it's not a weirdly premised adult video...at I don't have the WHAT? the fact that this movie has Scrappy Doo say the pallie!" Scrote being short for scrotum...which Scrappy-Doo's villain arc Towards the end of the film when his last words to the gang are cut short Language, Fred Fred pulls a Jesse Pinkman and says "biyatch". The team is like a banana split Shaggy offers some kind encouragement by split-and clarifies that Fred is the big Shaggy's French Lesson not the herb-Shaggy reveals that Fred once phrase he recites-"Voulez-vous coucher avec Scrappy's "puppy power" out of the group, Scrappy threatens to give before he pees on Daphne. When called out, he Deleted scenes Yeah, that's right-with all the adult there was still some that got left -an implied drug deal between a -a line from daphne implying that she "faked" -there was apparently a kissing Or at the very least some And, of course: Velma's several cut scenes The fact that parent screenings got several a piano as though she were intoxicated(though locker room while possessed by a demon. Linda Cardellini to know she was so hot she They say The Godfather: part 2 was SCOOBY-DOO 2: MONSTERS UNLEASHED Daphne Tattoos getting Daphne tattoos on their chests to show though it may be, this is still probably has treated her in these movies so far. Good for Right on, Shaggy bro! his beloved mary jane(it actually IS the herb greet them. Always good to have a solid bond with That's my purse, I don't know you! When Velma kicks a metal suit of armor in the apparently "roundtables" is "Who's your mommy?" took the last movie's parental notes of and made a whole subplot out of her giving Can't believe Scooby-Doo 2 was so many people's sexual awakening... That just doesn't feel Shaggy's Reflection Shaggy defies all logic by becoming even more It would be so awesome, it would be so TEEN TITANS GO! TO THE MOVIES Slade, not Deadpool Slade for Deadpool in one scene...much like many "Where to Babies come from?" directly tells the audience-of mostly children and come from. Honestly, the absolute savagery Titans, GO away from the crime scene! inspirational song about life, the Titans freeing the crime scene out of fear that Resetting the Timelines reset the timeline for multiple superhero origin into an alley so that Bruce Wayne can witness them I'm gonna say it...this show was funny. But there's no time for wondering the next piece of the set, THE LEGO MOVIE. A surprisingly dark ride... kids' movies in recent years, in no small part themes of brainwashing, parental neglect, and just designed lego sets instead of writing Honey, where are...everyone's pants? Lego nudity to be seen here. We see half and everyone's favorite show is a sitcom Use this clips: Total jab at sitcoms that very show might be a reference to sitcoms remarks that after so many seasons, you'd think questions about why other series needed to last he met his mother? How full will the house get? These be the laws of the sea... the "number one rule" is to never put your this was enough of an ongoing issue to make not Just convulsing around Cop claims he has video evidence of Emmett a strange lego piece. The fact that it's and his absolute horror upon witnessing said From one Lego film to another, Raging at 1 million percent operating at one million percent already sounds that you're wearing a bathrobe and thrusting your Go home, Alfred, you're drunk give Batman some solid emotional life too many Lifetime movies and drinking too with this is that he's been drinking Alfred canonically enjoys both alcohol and What do you mean it's a bad idea?! Squad by commenting on how dumb the notion But...but the buff shark guy! The rat girl! Margot Batman? More like PIG-man! to "fight around"--and given Joker's heartbroken around", a term usually referring to sleeping just as black as your cape...mass murder and torture Kids can be cruel, Robin himself to Bruce Wayne, he tells him call him "Dick" for short...Bruce offers can be sometimes, clearly thinking To the Wayne Car! "Wayne Car." Obviously a nod to his name, Bruce "wanker"--meaning Batman is basically calling And surely you didn't think right? Now we're gonna take a quick Lord Garmadon's Dupli-Arm Trick favorite trick with having extra arms-with 4 arms out with two people at the same time. Weird-I Okay, we swear this is the last Lego movie we're Pop-culture References have as much adult-oriented humor as the that fans of all ages should be able to get a Planty-a reference to Starlord telling Groot to of the Galaxy. There's also the amount yellow-and-black hands, a bunch of raptors and even a cameo of Lex Luthor coming to Let's pay one last visit to Dropping F-Bombs Falcon are in a bind, so naturally of his patented Falcon Bombs...F-bombs to keep the PG rating with weaponry like Now we're heading back to where it longest-awaited sequels-SPACE JAM 2: A NEW LEGACY. Even More Easter Eggs some characters that kids should recognize. Icons and even the Joker should be easy for anyone though-like the Great Gazoo, the Herculoids, Space amount of retro cartoon cameos in the background Bugs Bunny for the Game Boy game before his basketball career would eventually Wonder if that one's any good? Any AVGN-esque Well, in any case, it's finally time for the Comic-geek heaven vibes of the movie, comic book fans are undersung DC properties. For example, Jonah definitely love to visit, on a side note. Superman is shown to have Black Canary's album, Lantern. Which begs the question...are there Is there a Spider-Man somewhere who's just