May 5th, 1994, Sao Paulo Airport. Brazil is mourning an idol. Ayrton Senna da Silva, is killed during a race The Brazilians mourn Ayrton, Brazil cries for Senna, the embodiment of success This success story came to an abrupt end on the Imola racetrack in Italy. Pictures of the accident were seen around the world. Perhaps never before has the death of a champion Ayrton Senna's funeral People who were there were astonished which is usually so boisterous, but that day, there was absolute quiet. They were burying a god. It was the darkest day in my life because we couldn't accept could possibly die. In Brazil, Senna had just died, It was a terrible shock Their idol had perished. There is a certain amount Any time you go driving, you are exposed to some risks. There are calculated risks and there are unexpected situations You can be gone so you realize that you are nobody. Suddenly you are nobody, and your life can end suddenly. This is part of your life. You either face it in a professional, cool manner, or you just drop it, leave it, I happen to like what I do too much to just drop it. I can't drop it. It's part of my life. It is three days staged in Italy at the Imola racetrack. Ayrton Senna arrives where he lives The Thursday morning is taken up The champion At the age of 34, business is taking up more and more but here in Italy, The champion is preparing in his career as a racing driver. After a disastrous start to the season, It's a crucial year for the Brazilian. He's been world champion three times, but the last title After ten years of competition, but he still aims to beat With this objective in mind, with whom he had won everything, who won the title last year Ayrton was changing teams. He had left McLaren. At McLaren, They cherish them. This wasn't the case with Williams, and it isn't the case yet either. It's a British team through and through, and I would describe it as &quot;cold.&quot; The atmosphere is cold. I say that because Prost, who was with Williams in 1993, Perhaps that too had an effect on Ayrton, because ultimately, The moment you take your position you're alone, You have to be able where 100 members of the team are there I don't know He thought he was joining the team because obviously, his idea was to have the best car From a technical point of view, he realized that the car was far In fact, the car was tricky at high speed and didn't inspire Ayrton noticed this very quickly and several weeks he knew it was going to be very difficult. The car wasn't a great technical success. It was a car but the margin for exploiting and only a gifted driver, in my view, would be able to drive it I remember he came to me &quot;Gerhard, the car is hard to drive, &quot;and in how the aerodynamics work.&quot; &quot;We have to improve it, Even so, he managed to put the car but that was him, not the car. When he arrives at Imola, Senna has perhaps but he is still An exercise in pure speed has the right to first place Senna has but one challenge, to go faster than the others. This need for speed since his first go-kart race back home in Sao Paulo. It was a time when Ayrton spent many hours known as Tche, his first mechanic, and a privileged witness This is a historic photo because it shows me waving Later, people would know I liked him because he was a quiet boy. He gave his all He took to the track and he got used to winning, From the 1970s onward, and for his emblematic helmet the man who created For years, the brilliant yellow helmet for his adversaries. Ayrton was supposed to take part and had to wear Brazilian colors. Like this: yellow and green. I decided to make the yellow as it's the younger and more vivid color. The way I saw Ayrton driving, it was as if the bands of color His driving position is like this. It's very aggressive. Ayrton has always been always hungry for victories. Senna is a born competitor. His will to win and his strokes of genius but talent is not enough. If he is here in 1994 a living legend in motor racing, it is through perseverance In the autumn of his career, his success almost overshadows for the future champion. It was interesting and remarkable to see this boy, with such penetrating eyes, and who knew what he wanted in life. In the beginning, he couldn't even run. We worked on his stamina and his resistance to adverse situations. his resistance to frustration. Often, when he'd done about 40 laps I would say, &quot;Ayrton, ten more laps!&quot; At the end of the training session, &quot;At that moment &quot;I wanted to kill you.&quot; &quot;I couldn't go on, I wanted to stop. Still, I wanted to improve his ability Reaching beyond the limits, like in Monaco in 1988, dominated qualifying and made his mark In pursuit of the best lap time, he kept improving until the point that he went into a zone a kind of tunnel. He had the impression he wasn't completely He was going faster but in a moment of lucidity, he decided to stop in the pits It was almost beyond what was human. In some ways, it was characteristic because when he would tell you with that look in his eyes it was quite awe-inspiring. I would say that from that point of view, he was one of the drivers Above all, it is when the heavens open up When his opponents spin and skid, the Rain Man seems to perceive When the deluge comes, the Brazilian makes the illusion Here in Brazil today, so let's talk about Ayrton in the rain. Everybody says that he loved He would tell me, &quot;Nuno, it's horrible &quot;apart from the tire tracks,&quot; &quot;but I don't take my foot That's the courage to commit yourself He was afraid and thought yet he didn't slow down. What a show! That was Ayrton doing his special thing. The first day of practice. Imola is the third race of the season, and it's time for Senna He didn't even finish both being won by his latest challenger, and yet as his friends confirm, with his unusually At the age of 34, is the obsessive loner He was getting bored, He was getting bored, That year, over a single lap with the onboard camera. Ayrton recorded his commentary during a reconnaissance lap, as it were. He talked, and he would say, &quot;Right, we're leaving the pits, &quot;We're changing into fourth gear, &quot;The car has to do this or that, In the middle of his technical analysis, Ayrton Senna utters a message for the Frenchman Alain Prost, his eternal rival, A special hello to our dear friend Alain. We all miss you, Alain. There were all the others, Only his former deadly enemy counted, who had become a commentator, We realized that the Formula One life All the problems he had made him aware of the extent He no longer had that frame of reference Prost and Senna, a duel that has never been seen before a superb combat at times, It reached its height in the late 80s It was open warfare so close and yet so distant. Senna's whole approach Prost saw a race not as an ultimate goal It took years for Senna He saw a race as &quot;the race&quot; that he would compete in so he had to win it. If he didn't win, A hard-fought duel The Japanese Grand Prix in 1989, Senna starts badly The Frenchman blocks the curve Prost abandons. Senna sets off again and wins the race, but judged to be responsible and Prost is the world champion. After the race, and the hostility I never caused the accident in Suzuka. I was blamed for everything, I was treated like a criminal. I thought about stopping, going home, However, as I said before, racing, competing is in my blood. It's part of me and my life. I've been doing it all my life, and it stands up before anything else. One year later, prepare to witness a second, Prost is now with Ferrari, and this time, He makes the better start, Senna makes contact. Both cars are out, and by provoking the accident, Our fratricidal battle was a war It was in a sporting context and perhaps went beyond but it was so magnificent and incredible. It will certainly be a long time and perhaps we never will. There have been very few if any, A special hello to our dear friend Alain. We all miss you, Alain. On this Friday morning in Imola, The man has to learn to win as the Frenchman prepares as a commentator Therefore, peace had been made, if there was a sign of destiny, Friday, April 29th, the first official As usual, Ayrton Senna The doctor-in-chief of the Grand Prix, is focused on the extraordinary when, at 120, an accident marks the beginning We're arriving at the entrance the exact spot where, just a few minutes Barrichello's car came in It skidded into the gravel The car flipped over. Rubens Barrichello's car is pulverized. The young Brazilian is taken The violence of the crash particularly for his patron Ayrton Senna. I go into the emergency ward I asked him how he had gotten in there. &quot;Through there in the back.&quot; He had gotten in by climbing Then he says, &quot;I want to see him.&quot; &quot;I want to see Rubens.&quot; &quot;We can't.&quot; &quot;I want to see him.&quot; [Italian spoken audio] He's fine, he's all right. He's in shock, but he's fine. He has nothing broken, apparently... The Brazilian journalists as he reassures the nation symbolic of the status Through his flair, his victories, Ayrton Senna embodies a Brazil triumphant. He is their finest ambassador. He habitually waved demonstrating his patriotism a nation with all the qualities to succeed He showed this to the Brazilians, and it was exactly what they needed. Whenever possible, the champion returns to his native land Vacationing in luxurious villas with a millionaire's toys, Above all, the track demon finds peace among the family clan Ayrton Senna has no children. In 1994, Brazil's most eligible bachelor but his priority is his job. For the moment, that he can enjoy the pleasures indulging in games Despite his fortune, Ayrton is far from oblivious Two months before Imola, he shared with his sister for underprivileged children in Brazil. It was an ambitious project deliberately located It is here under the watchful eye of Fangio, the absolute reference in Formula One, the only driver whose heritage It took many long years for Senna, to realize his dream. Taking the checkered flag the scene of his first go-kart races. Three years before Imola in 1991, perhaps his most treasured triumph. It was a heroic race, The gearbox in his McLaren was broken, and only two or three gears The Brazilian finished the legendary We're in the last lap, and through the onboard radio, All the television commentators &quot;What's happening?&quot; It was Ayrton screaming and because he'd fought His arms and his hands were paralyzed, and at the same time, because he'd finally won He'd wanted it so much, At the end of that year, 1991, Senna was crowned champion joining Niki Lauda, in the pantheon Above all, he is acclaimed The second day of practice, Barely 24 hours drama strikes again. The Austrian Ratzenberger's Simtek Ford flies from a curve and crashes into the safety barrier. The impact was enormous. The car spun around seven or eight times, and what was left of it, came to a stop here. I remember the terrible camera images. When the car had just stopped, I saw the driver's head and I knew it was a really bad omen. Roland Ratzenberger, but with only 53 days against ten years for the Brazilian. For the newcomer, the Imola Grand Prix represented His challenge was not victory and to make a name for himself, In the heat of Imola on April 30th, It was in a moment where you are in the car looking at the monitor and just waiting for your slot The qualifying lap is very stressful, you take a lot of risk. It's the biggest pressure... At this time, it was the biggest pressure We were nervous and concentrating, then suddenly, we all saw on the screen We all saw Professor Watkins We all know that when on a racetrack, then it doesn't look good at all. That, all together I remember well getting out of the car, and asking myself Ayrton was standing next to me. We saw Ratzenberger's accident It was a terrible shock and he saw it too. I saw his face collapse. It was in the middle of the session. I saw that something very serious He went quite pale, and he didn't get back into the car. With drivers at that level, It's very relevant because it's their job, They know exactly what they're doing, and that what happens to some of them Ayrton is a highly skilled driver. Nothing had ever happened to him, He was even one of the breed of drivers and there, before his eyes, Deeply affected, seeing death on the track Senna terminates the session. Two hours after the accident, he goes to the track hospital for news of Roland Ratzenberger. I'm shaking my head sadly He understands the situation. He turns around without a word and leaves the hospital In the days that followed, &quot;I saw Senna leaving your hospital.&quot; &quot;He was going back to the pits,&quot; &quot;and he was crying.&quot; It was a very moving incident, because Senna was concerned but also the newest driver, who was still unknown. [Italian spoken audio] What is Ayrton Senna thinking The next day's race, the obligatory victory, or perhaps back in his modest hotel room, The death of Ratzenberger, the rookie who confronted Formula One after 12 years without a fatality. It had almost been forgotten Sunday, May 1st, Ayrton's 161st race, During the morning briefing session, promised to meet up in Monaco The atmosphere is unusually charged. Obviously, the atmosphere was gloomy because a man, a driver, but the race was about to take over. From midday onwards, The motorhomes were full, Life was back to usual. As the start approaches, when you hear the noise of the engines. In the 30 minutes before the start, All during this period I remember it very well. The weather was amazing, it was beautiful, It is true that of Ratzenberger people were little by little [French spoken audio] Has Ayrton, on Sunday morning, Has the Master of Concentration moved on? He would shut himself into a bubble Some drivers are very friendly, &quot;Hi, how's it going?&quot; With him, even if you knew him quite well, there was always that distance because he had such a strong personality, and you didn't want His mental side was very strong. It was stronger than most of us, and his way of concentration The way he could concentrate on a race or even on a qualifying lap After the races, When he was preparing, He didn't see anyone. At one race in Spain, the first sound he heard when the green light went on. Through a form of meditation, I was stunned by this ability to conceptualize that he developed In addition to his concentration, He believes in God intensely like after his first I had a very strange experience. I felt his presence very strongly and especially on the day of the race. I felt that I was with him and that he was with me. It's an experience that many people have had, but a few of them It's very delicate. I'm not afraid to say it. [Portuguese spoken audio] Ayrton really believed in God, but it wasn't just a mystical thing. He read the Bible. [Portuguese spoken audio] He believed, like the rest of his family, and that God helped him very, very much. That was his faith in God. He traveled with his Bible and would read it in his hotel room. It was really quite wonderful. He didn't preach, he didn't try to convince He was simply a believer, that's all. He was wrong to talk about it. It was taken the wrong way, he was protected or preserved Definitely not. It is 1:30. The great Formula One circus The race is due to start at 2:00 p.m. Senna has with him a small Austrian flag that he intends to wave after the race but it is another detail Senna would always stay in his car and that day too, However, there was one small detail, He had taken off his helmet which was very serious. I knew all the rituals he'd perform and that day, He did everything differently or at least by the way he looked at it. He'd never done that before. A different attitude that bothered me and affected me. From what I knew about Ayrton, it was as if he had an intuition The dismal series continues. Immediately after the start, a collision between two cars The green light goes on A driver mounts another car, whatever. No one was injured, fortunately, but the race restarted somewhat chaotically. As the debris is cleared from the track, the Formula One racing machines for six laps. Then, the pack is unleashed once more. Senna is already in front, He's heading for the Tamburello curve It is 2:18 p.m. There, on the monitor, we see a car coming off the track I'm watching the monitor closely and I count up to eight. I realize the driver is not getting out. I stand up, bang my fist on the table, The driver is not getting out! The driver is not getting out! I remember I had been behind Schumacher... It was Ayrton, Schumacher, and myself. When I came to Tamburello, Parts were just flying. It was at the exit of the Tamburello and when I had my exit in the same corner, it was an the entry. I saw the angle should've been okay I didn't know, I had no clue Then I saw what wasn't a grimace, His teeth were clenched as he watched, staring at the wreckage of the Williams Whether we had any hopes at that point, We saw his helmet move A lot of people had the feeling that the slight movement but I had the impression that it was over. Even though the car body was intact, We said to ourselves, &quot;He's dead.&quot; From time to time What made us think that? Maybe it was the drama of the moment, As I wrote in an article later that the archangel He had fallen, and it was over. I was at home with my family and we saw the accident. At first, we were hoping Naturally, as time went by, we realized that the situation At what point were you afraid When he didn't get out of the car and during the moments that followed, when he received treatment on the track. Did you imagine the worst? Yes, we could envisage the worst. Immediately, a medical car stationed close On board is Giuseppe Pezzi, He was bleeding badly and was unconscious, but his pulse was regular. Although we could see Was it impossible to say that he was dead? Absolutely, because the patient was alive His respiratory activity was functioning even if he was in a deep coma As three medics tried desperately I radioed the race directors &quot;Code Three, Charlie on the tack! I was implementing for an emergency which means It is an exceptional decision. It is 14:35 when Ayrton Senna is transported We couldn't hear the engines anymore. We couldn't hear the noise, It was very oppressive. Above all, at that moment, we remembered the accident the day before and we said, &quot;Oh no, not Senna.&quot; It's awful to say that, After the patient I returned to my station. Nobody, not even the race officials They saw so they respected my feelings. Even today, the memories come back but a great silence. The race, however, continues to the end, despite another accident one of whom is seriously injured. The show goes on, an absurd farce, culminating in the unlikely to celebrate the winner, As an ultimate concession the champagne at Imola that day At the hospital in Bologna, At 5:30, Senna's heart is still beating, but the Brazilian Journalists crowd feverishly waiting for confirmation In the words of Father Amadeo, for the religious records In front of the door, many people were waiting to receive news who was a great champion. Father Amadeo gave him absolution, and prayed, commending him to the Lord. It was almost 6:30, and at 6:40, he was pronounced dead. The head of the Intensive Care Unit makes the official announcement in a tense, electric atmosphere. I remember that as I went in, I was swamped It even took me two police officers because I couldn't get into the room. The most frustrating thing was that I couldn't respond to the expectations from around the world. Particularly, for having been powerless, because there was nothing left to do [Italian spoken audio] In addition, I always say he was a hero. He had one dimension but also as a man, and I think In my mind, he was immortal. [Portuguese spoken audio] He's not dying. He can't die. I went to pieces because I was a citizen who was almost a son that I'd embraced, so fragile, so weak, and who'd become so strong and powerful. Then, there was the professional, who saw his work broken, in a flash, into nothing. Into nothing. It was all over. It was very tough, How did Ayrton Senna, the exceptionally gifted champion find his trajectory The first fingers a sinister memory who had almost lost his life there I went at close to 300 kph and from there everything exploded. There wasn't fire, I remember well being in the hospital, and I said, &quot;When I'm back to Imola,&quot; &quot;we should go to this wall &quot;We are so fast &quot;it's just difficult to survive.&quot; The next test we were in Imola, Ayrton and I walked to this corner, and we looked into moving the wall. We looked behind the wall, We looked at each other and said, &quot;We can't move it We left again. I think five meters from this place he died. The explanation concerning the wall Surely, only a technical problem It's very difficult to determine was due to the steering column braking, based on all the elements or whether it broke afterward. Still, we know there was no human error, that Senna was not ill, he hadn't fainted, We can see him struggling with the car working the brakes and the accelerator. Everything he could have done, he did. What killed him that something penetrated his helmet a piece of metal from the suspension. If you could pick one lasting image Unfortunately, from that Sunday before the race. The message in the morning when he came to see me at lunchtime and then, when we shook hands, I happened to walk past him. We looked at one another, I almost wish I hadn't. But it could touch a driver like Ayrton, who was something of an archangel we were often It was something We realized that something had actually happened. A man had been killed, and for us, to practice the sport, it was something that made us ask about our profession. Why do we do this job? What on Earth is this business There would be a before and after Senna. His death put an end Engines will be less powerful, It took the death of its greatest champion In Brazil, three days of national mourning Before he was laid to rest for eternity &quot;Nothing can keep me can be read on his headstone, in the shade of an Ipe tree from Amazonia. A little shade and stillness for a man who perhaps liked nothing more