- Extraordinarily rare in the Bona-seum. American history. Every screw, nut, bolt, This light switch looks but I got that with the house. Welcome kids! Welcome to Nerdville. (bluesy guitar solo) I had a moment when I bought this house 'cause it came with a console, and I was like, yeah maybe even 'cause the 'cause you would figure that's But there was no preamps, there was no any of that stuff. A couple of my friends, they started using terms like black hole. And, you know, the gift So I said, you know what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna just turn this room into, to a soundproof nerd sanctuary where I can come out here and watch you know, American Pickers and Simpsons marathons or sick of it. My father was a vintage guitar dealer so I grew up kind of in a guitar shop. I grew up on guitar safari. We would answer strip ads. They used to call this called the swap sheet. And it would be like, You'd call and, hey, got anything else? Yeah, I got a few amps, Well it's an hour and a half away, sure. And we would drive all the to buy a really crappy, probably just because you never knew what else somebody else was holding, and offer enough money to and we'd always make it, so the guy's wife would hear it because the allure of was so great and the pressure from that would always make the deal happen. I've seen it like a million times. You hear, we could buy new cabinets! Why don't you sell that dusty thing that's been sitting in the garage? You know, great! Got a blackface Showman out of the deal. (smooth guitar solo) This guitar was bought on about three years ago. It was in Algiers Point. Now this is where Steven films that cop show. And the driver, I was like, guitar shop, and he's like, dude, we're not going to Algiers He goes, you sure? I go, it's the middle of Guitar safari. We come in peace. Mike goes pokin' around. And all of a sudden this yeah, this is the guitar We go into this guy's garage. And he goes, I got a I'm like, sure. Pulls this thing out, Late '55. So it's the first, one of the He bought it from the original owner who played it on Decatur Street, and all in New Orleans for its whole life. And when you see this kind that's the South. That's high humidity, high And I just loved the story. I walked out with it and I immediately, I just was like, I got and I was like, I'm what am I gonna call this thing? 'Cause I don't name 'em I wanted to just go, this is the Cajun. It's just, how cool is that? You know, a beat up Goldtop, you know? (bluesy guitar solo) This is, the very first Howard worked at McCord's music, which was the biggest and McCord's ordered it in summer of '55 and he got it around November '55. I had a poster of this on my And I just longed after this guitar, I just thought it was the coolest black, with all that patina. The late Bill Blackburn, decided to sell this guitar. It had spent 17 years in the because Howard Reed, after Cliff Gallup left Gene Vincent and the Blue So, this guitar is very you know, rock n' roll history. And more historical as, how many black Strats have you seen? Millions. This is the earliest (clean guitar chords) When I first started around age 11, you know, we'd get paid for the gigs and you know, I'd make $300, $500, for an 11 year old, that's, man, I was Mr. Burns, okay. I was loaded. Especially if school lunch was a dollar. So I'd just sock it away these guitars shows and and I'd go buy a tweed Deluxe. 'Cause I wanted a tweed Deluxe. Didn't know what I was looking at and probably got taken for a ride. But this is back in the was $500, 650 if it was clean. Had to be, and my father A rosewood neck Stratocaster was 2500, a refinish would What gets me now is when player, it's in player's 1964 Strat, player condition. Issues, routed, blah blah blah blah. $10,000, like, what working musician's gonna spend $10,000 on a guitar it's like, back when I it was more obtainable and as a budding collector, without to really try all this what worked for you and what didn't. And I figured out a long time ago, that if you had a desert island, a Gibson guitar and a Fender amp, that was the magic combination for me because it would always, it (bluesy guitar solo) Especially if you dime the reverb, and I'm too lazy to go None of this is legally binding. (bluesy guitar solo) This is one of the rarest It's so strange. For as many sunburst Strats he made a handful of Teles. In '55 and in '58. These sunburst finishes they sunk into the grain lines. And that's something you can't fake. So when this thing came out of the case, I was like, oh yeah, I'm in. Easy enough. And, still stock with the... (bluesy guitar solo) I'm a firm believer like, this guitar, came from the original owner to me, I'm the second guy Ask me how many times this Zero. Why? I don't care what the I don't care what the pot I know it's a '58, two reasons why. Because the neck shape kinda dictates it, the serial number's pretty And the logos changed in '58. And, the finish on the necks that's intrinsic to '58. That's all I know. And the guy said he'd bought it in '58. I don't need pictures 'cause, would you wanna be unscrewed 50 million times for a photo op? No! You know, I hate when people what's the neck, they If you don't know, don't buy it. If you're unsure, don't buy it. If you think you're gonna really don't buy it. So you have to enter that one day your prize possession that you think is worth all this money could be worth nothing. And then you have to ask Do you still love it? And in my case, absolutely. I'd rather have this than anything else. (bluesy guitar solo) Hi, my name is Joe and And this is what happens when addiction, coupled with a modicum of success in the music business meets, and there's no authority figure (blues music) Very underrated amplifier. The DeArmond RT5. Basically a tweed Harvard Killer. Overwound transformers. Really mint EH-150. Found in Pennsylvania. By the way, none of this stuff is eBay, okay, so if you're an eBayer, you don't have to worry about me 'cause I'm not dealin' with people that post under assumed names like Mr. Shades. I'm pretty proud of the In all of these lies the mint set. Narrow panel, '58 through 'cause you have to count You have Champ, Princeton, Harvard, Vibrolux, Deluxe, Super, Tremolux, Bandmaster, low powered Twin, Bassman, high powered Twin. All in mint condition, I out of the catalog, and This took me years, with a Y, to put this all together, is so difficult to find. The amps wore out in the shop, if they'd sit around the shop for a year, they go out of the shop lookin' beat up, because they just wore in this kind of condition is pretty rare. This is a 1945 K&amp;F, Kauffman, Doc Kauffman This is a 1946 K&amp;F Woody. One of the earliest known ones. Bottom mount chassis. And I found this, this And I brought it to my amp tech. And he pulled it apart for the first time and he looks at it and he looks at me, and he's a big Leo Fender fan as well, and he goes, Joe, I gotta tell ya, I think, most likely, Leo wired this amp and I said, you know what, this amp but it looks and it's not gonna so, it's history, you know what I mean? And then this is a '47, Fender Woody. He broke away from Doc Kauffman. And look at how primitive I would've had a 1948 Dual but I blew that up upon pluggin' it in. So that's at the shop. The thing about collecting, is, you don't have to keep You know, you don't have just because they tell ya. I like Fender and Gibson, And, you know, there's and plenty of Voxes for everybody else. I, you know, just stay out of my way when I want a tweed amp. (blues music) I took my friend Kirk Fletcher, who was out on the Three and I said, hey, wanna go We're gonna go to one shop only. Kirk had been my friend for a long time but he'd never seen me out in the wild, when the storm's about to we're going over to this guitar shop and I say, Kirk, just so you understand, what we're about to get of a hostile negotiation, and I go, what you're gonna see here, and you're gonna go, what the hell? Check? Check. I come in, of course, there's How you been, you know, get and then I go, hey, still Yeah, can I see it? (surfy guitar solo) We came to the price I shook his hand. And I see, just see my Put the case aside. I said, you still got (fuzzy bass solo) $6500 for the bass, free Z.Vex. Shook his hand. Put the case aside. You still got that fiesta red '62 Jaguar? (surfy guitar solo) I shake his hand. I go, nice to see you again. We walked out. Three guitars in about seven minutes. And he was like, what did you just buy? I go, guitar safari. What not to do to a '51 but once it's done, now we're 'cause it's like, it's ash body and the humbucker '61 first year, just the year the Keith Richards one was block frets, so I think it was '64 335, why, because Clapton played one. '57 Goldtop that's pretty nice, that's really nice condition. That's a GA-83S, and it has a single 12 and two eights on each That's an EH-150 matching set and the Radio &amp; Stage cases, the amp, that was the guy's whole kit. That was his life in music. - [Interviewer] Wow. - That came from Vermont. This is the brown stuff. The chocolate covered amps, pretty rare, I like the reverb tanks. This is a very unique circuit. It's an '81 amp. Loud and clean was the goal. So he achieved that goal with these amps, the only problem is, when they're still clean. And they're loud, but they're And they only made about 500 of 'em. This was one gonna be my transition from Marshalls to Fenders, I thought three white Twins would be pretty cool, but it just sonically didn't That's a 20 watt Lead &amp; Bass, it's like a '71, really mint. You turn everything up to 10, and like, if you need to get your Bluesbreakers on, that's the way to do it. All my Marshalls, I know 'cause I pulled all of those, from the original owners. Two mint matching stacks that I pulled out of Marseilles, France. I wheeled it down a And that's enough Marshall Our friend Rick Nielsen the whole idea of playing on the road from him because it was always so nice or a sunburst Les Paul and Tom had Rickenbacker Transonics and Robin had Blackguard Tele, you know, and they were on the road, on the road, so why? So I know Rick Nielsen's and so am I, so, let's have As far as guitar-wise, or I love the turds. This is a '66. That black spot on the That would be the second because the dude wore through the first. When I got this, not only there were huge divots through the fret into the wood. So this guitar almost has a self scallop. And I bought this guitar because I said, if something this loved for so long, it had to be good, and I plugged it in. And it rings. It just howls, you know. And it's, I'm a huge Bonnie Raitt fan so this is my Bonniecaster. I've owned this the longest, I I was 14 years old. Saved up all my money, and And I played it through took it on the road, even this, that, that ill-advised time when I was, like, you know, young and had a studded belt and I thought I was really, really cool. I just figured it out, that after putting this and looking at myself in that I'll never be cool. (bluesy guitar solo) This is Carmelita aka The Claw. You see that, those three kinda chevrons? Looks like a claw, that's And the guitar ended up in and was sold to, eventually in Missouri, and then it went to a friend of mine here in California. And Carmelita's in a bunch of books. It's in Beauty of the Burst. And the thing about Carmelita, I own three in this serial number range, I own 1948, 1951, which and the 1953 which is Carmelita. It's not the year, it's after the nine. And they all intrinsically which tells you they And a friend of mine has 1945, which is basically, there's His top matches the bottom of this and then the bottom of so it was basically the same piece of wood that was used to make 'em and we actually took pictures of it, you know? (reverby rock guitar solo) The reverb smooths out the blackface. The old blues guys, you know, (reverby rock guitar solo) That's the Mike Bloomfield (reverby rock guitar solo) This guitar will end This guitar is known as Amos. I named this guitar because of this guy. Here's Amos Arthur, in Indianapolis, in 1958, wedge shaped guitar. He has the look on his face, going, why in the hell did I'll never be able to sell to anybody? You can barely sit down and play it. Here's Amos the guitar on Here is Kenny C., their guitar instructor, on the roof of a convenience store during a pole sitting competition, it was like a record setting event, like, this woman up here in the photo, she's sitting in a box, like And I bought this guitar from Norm Harris, of Norman's Rare Guitars. And Norman was very 'cause he'd owned it for forty years. He knew I wanted a real V, and I'd only go to him because I knew if he'd sold me a V, it was real. And I didn't have to do the, and then to unearth all this I decided that I think one you could ever do is to music store is still open and it's run by the granddaughter and Last year, Rick, Mike and myself, discreetly, it wasn't for it was just for pure guitar geekdom, and, and for the love of this kind of thing. And for the love of a mom n' pop shop that has been open since And we took it back and and that guitar had not hadn't seen those people in almost, I don't know, 57 years. It was just the greatest day you know, on the counter, And it was a direct link to their grandfather and their father. And that's what it was all about. So they had this rickety ladder. And we're dragging this up the rickety ladder and And I recreated the shot. And I got pictures, whatever, bought in, and this truss rod cover. They were nice enough to one off the, off his personal A friend of mine found and it's one of these fancy things they would sell after and we had it engraved Amos So, the idea of this thing wow, it's a very rare wedge-shaped guitar, the idea is to play music with it, and I play it every night. (bluesy guitar solo) Oh yeah, it was in Spinal Tap! Norman loaned all his And in the movie you could so this guitar was in Spinal Tap. So thanks to Norm and at Arthur's Music because guitar with a very special story. I can't top this. After all this stuff (bluesy guitar solo) If nobody knew me as a collector and I just used endorsement stuff, and, you know, I just my little hovel, you know, to who? Nobody's here, you know, it's like, my whole idea is to share. And you know, some people like I'm flaunting, I'm not flaunting it, I'm just sharing it. It's all about sharing the information and keeping this thing somewhat honest. When it comes down to just as a musician, are you proud of that? Just because you own a are you proud of the work to become the musician that you became? Ultimately, we could throw I'm still proud of the that I put in to become And, whether you like the it still took 35 years to sustain a career, come up and ultimately, you know, learn how to, learn the instrument and try to get as much as you can out of it, you know, and to me, that's what it's about. And I'm not sure if I'm right or wrong, it's just my opinion. And the hipster kids don't care about me, and they shouldn't care what I think. But I'm watchin'. Oh, I'm watchin'. (bluesy guitar solo)