Morning Star found that the single biggest low the fees are. So what happens if you're high fees. Asset managers like T. Rowe Price and while BlackRock is thriving. What gives? If want to watch this presentation. Let's start one of my favorite questions to ask people in good understanding of Industry was this simple and active management. It's very simply benchmark like the S&amp;P 500. A passive manager 500 minus fees. There's also a tracking error we built software that helped portfolio if you're a portfolio manager and you're more work than doing passive management. So a reasonable expense ratio for an actively managed 50 basis points to 75 basis points. For passive points so this is a very important question here. Benchmark in the long term, what are you paying asking this question more and more lately because 2023 was a watershed with total passive funds time ever. And when you look at a product you get exposure here to the United States for able so Vanguard's known for lowcost products. And Funds, they're based on an underlying index and you have to match the Benchmark performance it all ETFs are passively managed. You could think of them are. Here you can see on this chart, 54 basis points for a fund and Vanguard's average And that's going to be talked about more today. Management is Dead, Long Live Active Management. passive investing, articles cheer indexing and of course, need to pay attention to trends. But I I wanted to make here. So BlackRock is the largest down their Assets Under Management, that's what start with the first client type. Look how telling 31% fees. And then 9% of their AUM is Retail but more willing to stomach higher fees, as we've also interesting. So look at active. Remember, we for BlackRock makes up 43% of fees but just 25% very small percentage points on whoever you're accounting for just 8% of fees. So when we look but it was the most comprehensive that I could don't know why. But here you can see the ones that T. Rowe Price in 14th and 16th position. And these on our radar. When we look at BlackRock, they're going there and they broke it in the 2008-2009 that dividend by a penny to keep that track record years of increases. So 10 years until they're as an upcoming Champion. But this piece here of course ,we know that money's moving from active here at the third point, money is pouring known for their actively managed mutual funds. much active management is happening at both of this is very telling. So take a look at the net flows would be for any asset manager, they have all right, I'm going to put money into your money out. So the net of that, you would like You could see here that for Q1-2024, they had their assets under management. This is interesting management increased over that time frame whilst this chart shows you. So this is their assets up because you're getting fees from that. Look the assets under management increases, right, are doing better than they do in Bear markets. Now the markets are going up and their assets under out money to offset that. So one point that T. was that their net outflows were $24 billion were in the first half of 2023. So they're talking those outflows. But when you look at BlackRock, net inflows, they're not suffering at all. Why? passive money. And their track record here, you around 11 trillion now. They're doing a great job. that, that shows you how the market is affecting that is that they're increasing AUM significantly the amount of active money managed at T. Rowe management. I couldn't find the answer. Perplexity around 38% of the firm's total assets under higher, just based on their, I think, what, 40 or it's difficult to say. But in the latest T. Rowe So here you could see these bullet points. They financial results, we're making steady progress We continue to be on track to substantially reduce to see. And then they talk here about their ETFs, for ETFs, up significantly by 1.2 billion. They billion of inflows to our ETFs, they say. Well a $1.4 trillion asset manager. So they're a little be one of their answers to trying to reduce all interesting, from T. Rowe. It shows their assets Retail and you see the net flows there along the positive institutional flows and a negative retail of course, outflows. But they talk about how management. I thought that was pretty interesting. fees. We see this all the time. People who have just sock money into it and don't really pay to step up and help you spend less. So what's the run for retirement accounts? I don't know. But is falling out of favor. Lowcost providers are put to believe Retail knows or even cares about fees them. Stemming outflows is going to be the most consistent track record of net out flows like the devil, Franklin Templeton's reduced dividend even more so, when you look at this. This is started reporting on outflows for Western Asset problems BEN's running into. Some compliance it's not very good. But investors will get you see, oh, $7.7 billion of long-term outflows what- this is just less than two weeks ago, their at the the top there, it says, nearly $28 billion the quarterly outflows to around $31 billion. So can see, this last quarter, the $31 billion we aggregate that all together, since we have been a consistent problem with outflows. But what worse outflows. And when you look at the assets sort of neck and neck. So I think comparing them, actually had a lot more outflows. I thought that Street Journal shows one of the ways that Franklin they turn towards private investing as mutual I thought this was interesting, taking over from never good, I think, to have, you know, family. something like that. Are these really the best don't know what the answer to that is. But I just CEO, Miss Johnson oversaw, she's been CEO for four that's what brought Franklin Templeton on par management. Then Lexington and Putnam actually has don't know if they're acquiring more problems but I suppose, is one strategy. But that there's a fees. And when we look at T. Rowe against Franklin It's going to be made available, if it's not you to navigate over 200 Dividend Champions and on Financials. I'm just showing you the top five look for T. Rowe Price, see how their dividend 5 years. That's good. Look how Franklin Templeton of course, has encountered some compliance issues we're more concerned with their slowing dividend T. Rowe. And that made us ask the question, what And that's this presentation. The higher yields But are they sustainable? So just some concerns. to passive and that's a problem for firms that pay Retirement accounts might prove somewhat durable. late is tough. You're competing against BlackRock multiple problems: overall decline in active Asset Management; no closure for that current that; and poor investor relations, in general, their information as it compared to T. Rowe and their ability to effectively communicate messages Franklin Templeton, we exit champions for one It hasn't. But the bigger question here is do is one of 10 dividend growth stocks that we find think so. So, likely, yes, we will be substituting like that, very slowly and methodically. So closest substitute? That would be T. Rowe. Well best-case scenario for T. Rowe? Well, it's that they are showing progress doing. But when we take Aflac would make the cut, we did a piece recently Sure, the stock is doing great, everything's rosy. S&amp;P Global is of Interest, that's been added to next so make sure you subscribe to our Channel. recent piece we did on Franklin Templeton which having with Western Asset Management. Thanks so