The Israeli army, known as the Israel Defense society. Nearly all Israelis do three years of reserves until middle age. Its generals often and industry. The dominance of the military militaristic nationalism, and violence are Israel is the outgrowth of a militarized settler biblical myth. It has always sought to solve massacres against Palestinians known as the Nakba the Suez War of 1956, the 1967 and 1973 wars with Palestinian intifadas, and the series of military violence. The long campaign to occupy Palestinian in the Zionist paramilitaries that formed the The overriding goal of settler colonialism The few Israeli leaders who have sought to Minister Levi Eshkol, have been pushed aside by Israel in the 1973 war with Egypt and Syria, and the extreme nationalists who have abandoned all the open language of apartheid and genocide. These Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Israel's This extremism has now been exacerbated about 1,200 Israelis. The few Israelis especially after October 7, have been silenced is almost exclusively the language Israeli speak to the Palestinians and the Arab world. in Israeli society is Miko Peled. Miko's father member of Israel's special forces, although his role as a combatant to that of a medic. After pin. He is the author of, The General's Son: The Story of the Holy Land Foundation Five. was a general in the IDF. This inculcation of begun in the schools. Can you talk about that? be with you again and talk to you. So it preschool. It begins as soon as kids are able to the ranks in the military before I knew my kids. The Israeli education system is such that serve the apartheid state and to serve in this It's an enormous part of that. And with me, it father's a general, and particularly of that gods of the Olympus. Everybody knew their names. you would have little flags, not just flags of generals, with pictures of military, all kinds of I was a kid they still had a military parade. like you said, you hear it when you walk you hear it in conversations, you hear it and there's no place to develop dissent. There's that dissent is possible. And the few cases where their families have a tradition of being communist tradition but this is a minority of a minority. and Israel is the army. You can't separate Let's juxtapose the myth that you were taught The myth that I was... Again, this was given to his comrades were all part of the 1948 mythology. clever, and therefore, in 1948, we were able to who came to try to kill us and so on and destroy our heroism -- And you talked about the biblical King David, and we are the descendants of the strength in our genes, we were able to create were there. We were able to defend ourselves and in my case, it's every time the larger, more got together with their friends. And in many The stories of the battles, the stories of IDF plaza. Street names after different units street names of battles, so it's everywhere. less than 40, that it was the first time the Palestinian story, and it was unbelievable. night is day, or the world is flat, or it was incredible. They are telling me that what I read it in books, and I heard it from my that all of this is not true. And what you find this journey of an Israeli to Palestine, is that That's what this so-called heroism really was, highly motivated, well-indoctrinated, well-armed started, it was still a militia or today they that went up against the people who had never who never had a warplane, who never prepared, Then you have to make a choice: How do you the differences are enormous. The choice and find out who's telling the truth and who How did they explain incidents such as the Nakba, the massive ethnic cleansing that took place that mythic narrative? Then I wonder if you mentioned that the IDF has had to carry out indiscriminate killing of civilians, we can to the society, the people who carried out those and torture and everything else. But let's begin then talk about the trauma that is carried within My generation, we knew that there were several crimes. And we admitted, so there was Deir Yassin, a peaceful village where a horrible massacre took of a lunatic and he took the commandos that Bank and went into Gaza and committed acts held in high regard by everyone, but we knew military, every nation makes its mistakes never any sense that this somehow discounted There are lots of stories of how soldiers went heart, they didn't harm civilians. And those that they were coming. And these same good Israeli So it's presented as limited cases. Nakba was not not discussed today, certainly not in schools. to mention the Nakba. There's a directive by the not allowed to mention the Nakba. But nobody what are you going to do? There was a war and So none of that ever hurt, in any way, the descendants of King David, and other great ever hurt itself. So there's no trauma because wrong, well, it was a case of bad apples, a particular person, a particular unit, and you do? It's never been presented as systemic. Today, pay attention, and if we do read the literature, there's this great NGO called Zochrot, which its cities that were destroyed in 1948 and to revive are uncovering new massacres all the time. Because who committed the crimes and the Palestinians are opening up and telling more and more stories. civilians and were burned down. We know of a a young man went and shot a Fiat missile into coming out but Israelis are not paying attention, attack on Gaza -- And as you know very well, these by the way -- There was always a reason. Because were terrorists, and now they're called Hamas, and very good reason to go in there because these are So it's a tightly-knit and tightly-orchestrated don't seem to have a problem with that. occupation -- Huge numbers, a million Israelis have left the country. I'm wondering how many are repulsed by what they have seen in the West I don't know. The few encounters that I've had majority support Israel, support Israel's actions. an email from someone who is representing These are Zionist schools all over countries secular Zionism. And they are now appalled by very high percentage of these students grew up, APEC events and so on. And now they're looking a sense of anger that they were put through this So that's an interesting development. And if that these are the most loyal American Jews. The most I meet, with few exceptions, support Israel come to America: They're not unique, they're or they were angry, or they were dissenters in there are many Israelis. Sometimes you'll sit conversations, and there's no lack of support for Let's talk about the armies. You were in the indoctrination. I remember visiting Auschwitz and people were flying Israeli flags. But speak in particular, to the Holocaust. to the Holocaust. And that the IDF is a response willing to fight, we must always have a gun in never happen again. And what's interesting is, indoctrinated, who did not get pulled into Zionism the notion that a militarized state is somehow the answer to the Holocaust is tolerance racism. But nobody wants to ruin a good myth The story is because of Auschwitz, we represent Nazis and so on, and therefore we need to be and the Israeli military represents them. It's in the army willingly, as most young Israelis do. heard of, although there were some voices in the morality. But I never did. Nobody around me began patrolling. I remember -- You and I an infantry unit, a commando infantry unit. And handcuffs and were told to patrol in Ramallah. are we doing here? And then we're you break every bone in their body. And I thought, while marching through a city. Who's not going to everybody already understood that this is how it wait, this is wrong. Why are we doing this? And then there was the Lebanon invasion of that was a serious crack in the wall of belief this whole notion that somehow being violent and somehow a response to the horrors of the Holocaust around you is asking questions. You don't ask stand out and be smacked on the head. how did they speak about Palestinians and Arabs? is horrifying. First of all, they're the you see, it's horrifying. They think it's funny chase them and to chase kids and to shoot. never heard that discourse until I was in it. Then even here in the US, the way they joked the way they joked around about killing or clothes off and dance naked, it's entertainment. a problem here because the racism is so ingrained And I don't think it's surprising, I think when education system that is so methodical, that's Palestinians or with Arabs; It goes on to the it goes to Jews or Israelis who come from other The racism crosses all these boundaries You have very little criticism of the IDF, almost quite a bit of criticism right now, of Netanyahu little bit about the deification of the IDF within that means for what's happening in Gaza. above reproach, except from time to time. So And now there has been, just earlier this the cabinet meets every Sunday. And the army chief was leaked from the meeting, a cabinet meeting. partners, it's funny to say right-wing partners Israeli cabinet. But the more right-wing settlers were attacking the chief of staff because I guess was a, it was catastrophic when the Palestinian They took over half of their country back. They They took over the army base of the Gaza brigade, exactly this happening. And there was nobody I guess, or he initiated an internal inquiry And what you see in the Israeli press is two very something went horribly wrong and we need we shouldn't do it during wartime. We shouldn't make the soldiers feel like they have to they should be allowed to shoot. And the everybody is eating each other up. I mean, the press. So of course, everybody that's against His people are attacking the others for attacking it seems like there's this paralysis as a result the functionality of the state as a state. is not the state that it was prior to October 7th, still paralyzed in many ways. You've got missiles from the south. You've got very large numbers of injured and the war, and it's not ending. They're the armed resistance and so on. and you read the Israeli press and it's just like bubbling, and everybody's attacking everybody they are above reproach mostly, but from time the settlers are very angry because, also another the military decided to pull back some of the hit so hard. And I remember that happening before being attacked for stopping the killing, for not Well, you had what? 70 fatalities in were pulled back. This is a very elite unit. the casualties are high-ranking officers. very high-ranking commanders within Israeli usually killed in big bunches, like you say, personnel carrier or they'll be marching together. they blew up a military vehicle and killed a scratching their heads, not knowing what the hell they were not protected as they thought they were. settlements, the kibbutzim, the cities in the they enjoy some of the highest standards of living warm, it's lovely. Agriculture is, and I don't would dare to come out of Gaza fighting and I mean the army was bankrupt. It was gone, nothing worked. And it is reminiscent of what but it is reminiscent. And I don't think it's a 50 years and one day after the 1973 October war what we're seeing right now. happening in Gaza, militarily? on and kill many Israelis. And even though the logistics, obviously they've got supply chains are where they're getting supplies. I don't know where They're obviously putting up a fierce resistance. here. I mean, this is revenge. This is just, and they needed to take it out on somebody. lay their hands on, and these are the Palestinian the tens of thousands. I don't think anybody Hamas. I don't think anybody really believes takes seriously or actually believes that and spread them around the world and into other But as long as Israel is allowed to kill, and they're going to continue to kill. creating a humanitarian crisis. So but it's now starvation. Diarrhea is an epidemic, this humanitarian crisis becomes so pronounced That's always the big question for Palestinians. being placed in these situations where they injustice. And you know this, you've been in war buried under the rubble and what that's going to like you said, that are suffering from all kinds catastrophe. And you remember, what was it? 2016 that by 2020, Gaza would be uninhabitable. I don't It's been a humanitarian disaster since it was early fifties. Because they suddenly threw all that was it, and then began killing them. some people the other day, as Americans, as which is in the Mediterranean, the US Navy's them support? To create a no-fly zone over these as Americans, isn't that the natural, shouldn't demand our politicians to use, because American causes before. Why aren't they supporting the aid? Why aren't they helping them rebuild? Why genocide rather than stop it and aid the victims? themselves because it makes absolutely no sense. their government to support a genocide that's hiding it. It's on prime time. Everybody sees for some strange reason, Americans are allowing the genocide. And there's no question, I mean, the definition of the crime of genocide it up and compare it to what's been going the greatest questions. Why aren't Americans Well, according to opinion polls, most Americans paid for by the Israel lobby. Biden is one financing from the Israel lobby. And this Schumer was at the rally saying, no ceasefire. I think ceasefire is a very small ask, and for the bare minimum for Palestinians. Israeli soldiers are being killed as well in become an anti-Israeli demand? But I think that or where it was that this idea of demanding just serious demand. Ceasefire gets violated by Israel historically Israel always violated ceasefires. a no-fly zone, immediate aid to the Palestinians, the safety and security of Palestinians forever That's what really needs to be the ask. At after having shown such, what I believe is We as people of conscience need to demand not to apartheid state and a full stop and end absolute that Palestinian kids will be safe. I mean, I was it's ridiculous when nobody even talks about who are Palestinian citizens of Israel, nobody They're afraid to walk down the streets. Palestinian safety and security is left to the conversation right now, after such horrendous to be the ask when we go to protests, when we make not willing. And like you said, these [inaudible America are not willing to entertain a ceasefire. we're experiencing right now, and I think it's an opportunity to end this for good, to end the genocide for good. And if we don't take advantage, take advantage of this now and bring it to an end, The Netanyahu government is talking about this months. There are strikes, have been strikes you? I mean, how could this all go terribly wrong? of death and destruction of so many innocent for it. It's beyond horrifying. I think that, of Hezbollah and the restraint of Iran and the all been neutralized either through destruct, he's relying on that, and he knows that he can bombing Syria, instigating all of these things and end of the day, even though the Hezbollah Hezbollah and the Palestinian fighters have they don't have the supply chains, they don't have and more civilians are going to be hurt. regional war by any stretch of the imagination. why he's allowing this to go on. And for him, this be unseated by anybody that's around him. There's as long as everybody's in a state of crisis, he which for him is the end all and be all of world, as governments of the world, I should say. Indian TV stations, Europeans, everybody is have to say, and they think I am a lunatic for however it is that they frame it. But I don't unless there is massive pressure by people of to force sanctions, to force the end of the I want to talk about the shift within Zionism to, we see it of course in the government of is also true now within the IDF. And I wondered Sure. So originally, traditionally, historically, this day, as you know, ultra-orthodox Jews reject 1967, there was this new creation of the Zionist who went to the West Bank and they became the new portion of the officers and those who joined in the army, the unofficial policy was that these current chief of staff comes from that world, generals, and of course commanders, high-ranking the reason that it was the unofficial policy that an incredibly toxic combination, this messianic It's not Judaism at all, with this nationalist what it created. It created some of the worst we've seen, certainly in the short history of they're any less violent than the generation of was a big concern in the past but now they're government. They hold the finance ministry, certainly in the military they're everywhere. heads of committees in the Knesset and so on. And hard to get to where they are today, which is Netanyahu's guaranteed to remain in power. could have had, as we had earlier this year, in the streets and it didn't affect him because leave him as long as he allows them to play their of violence and the actual facts on the ground, I parents' generation who were young Zionists and and ran the country for the first and operated But it's definitely a new form of fanaticism being very toxic. And I think they have a stomach, more seen before, even for Israelis. I mean, this these numbers are beyond belief, even for Israel. has its profoundest effect within Israel, civil liberties, this kind of stuff. these guys because they're religious, but they with the big beards and everything. They're kind this is because one of the things, one of their Jewish temple. They're destroying Al-Aqsa and so in the old city of Jerusalem, there's a the western wall is up to Al-Aqsa, which is and there's several odd times throughout the day, what it's about, what these guys do, you know? taken, hundreds of thousands of Israelis go on religious at all. These are secular people. and you go up that bridge, just to give you an bridge and then you wait until the tour starts a massive model of the new temple, of the Jewish you have a huge group of armed police. but dressed like, completely militarized that Muslim Palestinians are not allowed, they and they pray and they stop and they pray the whole thing takes maybe an hour. But the on these tours are secular Israelis. And then as a kid growing up completely secular, we would Why did we sing songs about building a temple? significance, and it became a national my mind that Netanyahu, when secular Israelis Al-Aqsa and having a Jewish temple there. It's the connection, even though it has nothing to the connection that we are descendants of King really what this is about so the relationship that's what they're called in Israeli jargon. Israelis is an interesting one because on the they're religious, but on the other hand, they're Great. That was Miko Peled, author Israeli in Palestine and Injustice: The I want to thank the Real News Network and Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.