This is the headquarters of H&amp;M, the company that has produced this shirt that I'm wearing, but that has also produced: Sweden's richest man, Stefan Persson. Here's how rich Stefan Persson is. If a salesperson at an H&amp;M store would save every penny of her salary, it would still take her over 500,000 years to save up as much money as Stefan And if you think that's a lot of money, So Elon, currently has as much wealth With his money, Elon could or he could pay for an army Blackwater mercenary soldiers Or he could fund the complete operations of the United Nations Can a person become too rich? So rich that the wealth starts to become a threat to society? If so, shouldn't we limit how much wealth anyone person can have? And what should that limit be? So if I ask you this question, how much money is enough for you? How much money do you need to fully flourish in life? $100,000. $1 million. $10 million. Or do you believe that it's like the American billionaire journalists asked him how much money is enough, famously replied: "Just a little bit more." It turns out that many researchers this question, i.e. how much And what these studies show very clearly that there is an enough line, a line won't make a big difference, people think that they have Exactly where people draw the enough line depends a little bit on where So in the Netherlands, people In the US, people say that To me, the most interesting takeaway isn't the exact level of the enough line. Instead, what I find most people do not agree with Rockefeller, that there is no limit at all. Almost everyone agrees that at some point, enough is enough. Another interesting thing to note like Sweden, where I live, never get anywhere So in Sweden, the median wealth per adult is $78,000. In the United States, And in the U.K., it's $152,000. And in the world overall, So what people actually have is very far even from the modest Dutch enough line. Another interesting takeaway have so much more money than that is just mind blowing. So 243,000 people in the world ultra high net worth individuals, which means that they have more than $50 million of those, around 7000 have more than $500 million. And then we still haven't Stefan person, who I talked has around $20 billion. And Bill Gates, he has around 128 billion and Elon, he has 220 billion. So the super duper rich today, they aren't the little richer They are, truly, astronomically But so what? Is there a problem that a few people have, these extreme levels of wealth? Well, yes, there is a problem In fact, there are several problems. There's a popular narrative among the rich In the past, everyone except for But today, thanks to global and poverty is about to be eradicated. This narrative is illustrated by a popular infographic that Bill Gates, has called one of his This infographic shows how in the year 1820, around population lived in extreme poverty. And then, over the following to only 10% in 2015. And it's easy to understand like this graph, because in it looks like poverty is just And if that's true, then we can maintain there's no need to look critically at extreme wealth concentration. But there are many researchers, Jason Hickel and the economist Ha-Joon Chang, that poverty is just about to Researchers like these point out that we don't have about global poverty from before the year 1981. So instead, graphs like these about people's incomes with the result that we overestimate how poor people were in the past, and we vastly underestimate how poor many people are today. So despite what the dominant narrative says, in absolute numbers, there is, arguably, more poverty And to me, that is the first Extreme wealth just cannot when that wealth could extreme poverty. This is late billionaire David Koch. Even though he has never been elected, David, together with his did more to shape American Over the years, they've donated to climate denial organizations, gun that, arguably, paved the This is the billionaire and Through his media outlets and Fox News in the U.S., Rupert was instrumental in getting Britain to vote for Donald Trump. This is Elon Musk, the So in 2022, he bought one of the world's largest social media platforms, Twitter, so that he can use it Something that is key to both is the concept of decentralization. In contrast with regimes like the Soviet Union, Nazi Germany and the economy was centralized a ruling class controlled resources our democratic and capitalistic system relies on the decentralized one vote, and a free market. But extreme wealth undermines and it threatens both Because, as the Koch brothers', show, extreme wealth can easily be translated and also into market power. And as Martin Gilens explains research shows that over policy outcomes almost To take just one (almost mundane) the Swedish government gave the Swedish a tailor made tax break that saved him millions and millions of dollars. If you want to learn their power to rig the tax system, where I use Lego figures With extreme wealth, we also get extreme inequality and there is a growing that inequality in itself As inequality increases, mental health problems, The list goes on. And if you want to learn more about problems, check out my previous video: "Why Inequality Matters To conclude, extreme wealth maintains and it creates extreme inequality, So is there anything we can do about extreme wealth? Before we get to the next chapter, I would like to thank the first The Compounded Daily Newsletter, of finance, business and written by the financial professionals "How Money Works." So they reached out to me to support my work on this to let me write some of my own So if you like what I talk about on my you will absolutely love what they cover in their newsletter, So thank you to The Compounded Now here's the next 2000 years ago, Plato argued that the wealthiest shouldn't be allowed to more than those who have the least. Four times?! Just imagine what Plato would say the world's richest 1% own 43% of all global financial assets. The idea that we should limit how much wealth one single it's not radical and it's not left wing. If anything, I would say Not only Plato, also Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, John Locke, all of them have argued that a good life Even the father of capitalism and the invisible hand, Adam needs to be limited so that One person who argues time honoured ideals of limits of philosophy, Ingrid Robeyns. Ingrid proposes that we implement any one person can have: one ethical limit and one political limit. The ethical limit, which Ingrid suggest should be set to $1 million, corresponds roughly to the enough in the beginning of the video. shouldn't be illegal, but unethical and social irresponsible. And today, there are around 59 million people in the world without much wealth, which means that the ethical line would affect less than 1% of the world's population. The political limit, Ingrid suggests, should be set to $10 million. The idea with this political limit and institutions should make it illegal to amass more wealth than that. And today, there are around without much wealth in the world, at the level that Ingrid proposes 0.03% of the world's population. "In fact, this trend towards growing" "inequality is not unique to "Across the developed world, "I believe this is the defining It's now been 11 years since Barack Obama called inequality the defining And since then, inequality What we need right now We need action! That's why I appreciate what Ingrid Robeyns's Limitarianism However, I believe principle is needed not only So many of us who aren't extremely rich already have way more than we need. Yet, we choose to participate to get even more money, to buy A rat race that is making us miserable, Here's the uncomfortable truth: If you think you need $1 million to fully flourish, odds are in a Rockefellerian trap where So I believe what not only the rich, but all of us desperately need right now is a renewed ethics of enough. To quote the Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu: He who knows he has enough is rich. I'm Andres Acevedo and this is The Market Exit. Since you watch this far, please don't forget to click LIKE and SUBSCRIBE For example, why don't you post a link That would be really helpful. I'm also really curious to hear how do you feel about Limitarianism? How much money would be enough for you? And if we would implement where do you think we Let me know what you think And if you really like the videos I make, please consider patreon.com/themarketexit Any amount helps me to keep And to my existing patrons, thank you The ideas in this video are, obviously, inspired This is a book that I can Limitarianism is almost like a for anyone who feels that but who struggles to articulate That book masterfully condenses ideas from various disciplines Really good work. All right. Thank you for watching this video essay. See you next time. Bye bye.