Kill, brothers, keep your composure, come closer, and then kill, keep your composure, come closer, let them get closer, prepare to attack, brothers, rush, brothers, sweep the battlefield, pick up the weapons on the ground, pull the horse behind the low wall, brother, go, big brother, brother We are all finished. When I see it, I don't believe that our brothers No. 50 and 60 can't deal with them. They lined up in a column . Let me see what else he can do for me. Big brother has ordered us to line up in a column and attack. Is it for me to charge, aim and shoot the two leopards? Are you ready? We've been waiting for a long time. Let's go. It's brother. Let's fight. Stay calm. Why are you so close ? Why don't you fight? We don't have much ammunition. Everyone, stay calm and wait for my order. Yes, brother, we are less than a hundred meters away. I said I don't have mine. Order: No one is allowed to move their hands. No more fighting . Obey the order. You will soon know what this means. Brothers , mount up and attack . Brothers, come with me and kill Liu Dazi. Brothers, retreat quickly . We are saved. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone is saved. Finally, we are saved. Thank you , fellow villagers, which village are you from? We are the eldest brother of Hongliu Village. You are the three famous Yan brothers in the Gobi Desert. We are the two leopards who split up to block his legs. Tell his fate quickly. Be prepared to evacuate. Everyone dispersed and searched. If there was any situation, shots were fired immediately. Did you hear it quickly ? The sound seemed to be coming from the ventilation duct from above. It was in the direction of the bathroom. The long door of the quick class was locked from the inside. It was opened. It was prepared for an ambush . Shoot. Shoot. We encountered Sorry, this is a professional detonation line. Only those with special training can use it. Come on , Section Chief. Look where he is. Section Chief. Who is the voice coming from ? How is the situation outside ? You are Sakata. Haraya, you, you, who you are, it doesn't matter. Who else besides you knows about the research on bacterial bombs by the Kazuno team? Shaking his head, it means if you don't tell me, it's gone. If I tell you, can you still live? You, don't, don't. This is no. What will happen if you tell the truth? I promise you to tell the truth and you can survive. My patience is limited. Tell me. Who else knows the secret of the bacterial bomb ? Kazuno only told me one person. Of course you are from the same hometown. He only trusts you. Yes, yes. Thank you. You solved my big problem. Didn't you promise me that you would let me go if I told the truth? I regretted it . Charge , Shuangying, let everyone concentrate on fighting the cavalry. Come with me. Everyone aims at one. Listen to my command and fire at the same time. Use heavy machine gun fire to suppress the fire. Quickly bring up the steel cannon. Liu Jun is not going to fight like this. There is no way to concentrate on breaking through. Taijun means to order your cavalry to form a battle formation and charge forward to completely destroy their defense. Good brothers, follow I charge and charge, double eagle and double leopard. It seems that it will be difficult for us to break out today. Remember what my brother said . You can't surrender even if you die. The Japanese can't be traitors. Don't worry. Brother, fight with the Japanese. Brothers, kill them. Brothers, give me a try. Kill, kill, kill, kill, listen to my order. Release the two leopards, double leopards, and double leopards. Shoot, brothers, catch me alive. You Japanese devils , traitors, bastards, must die in peace. Come on, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go ! Hurry up, catch up, hurry up, hurry up , and send these people to the 301 substation. Taijun, don't worry, leave this matter to me. Yan Biao and Bu Ying are both mortal enemies of the imperial army. Today, when we eliminated Yan Biao, we undoubtedly eliminated one. It's a big disaster , but don't forget that there is Bu Ying, who is even more terrifying. According to reliable information, Yan Biao and Bu Ying are close friends of life and death. He must know the whereabouts of Bu Ying. Come on, what else are you thinking, bastard ? Is he a son of the Japanese and killing people? Your hands have softened. Come on, come on. Grandpa snorted, it's your grandson. Big brother , this wolf kid is really hard to deal with . Just kill him. Just wait. Just now, I almost died in the hands of you, a little bastard. God had the vision to let you fall. Stop talking nonsense with me. If you have the guts, just do it. Stop whining and moaning like a girl. As long as you call me grandpa, I will let you live. I am your ancestor, a good boy, have the guts , brothers. We can't treat him badly, lest the Jianghu masters say that we are not honest, give him a happy life. Big brother, what do you think we should do? Take out his heart, drink it, and shoot him. Who is it ? It looks like he is growing up every step of the way . Big brother, are you chasing me ? How are you going to explain to the Japanese when you go back? The Japanese only let us check Bu Ying's whereabouts, but they didn't let us catch him. We can't escape desperately for them. Quickly shoot, shoot, shoot . Get down and beat me hard. Damn, it's really dangerous for him to deal with you . I came here specifically for you. You don't want to see me. I said I was behind you. Should I kill you? I don't see how you can kill me. You have nothing in your hands forever. Don't think you 're smart. Don't get lucky. Don't try. You're really good. Where did I just say it? You said you should kill me , right , but I have a question to ask you. If you can answer it, I will consider letting you go. Who betrayed you? This was a trap from the beginning, right? I want to hear what you have to say . Do you really think I came here alone? Is this the beginning of the story? Boy, you are so young. I can only tell you that this is indeed a conspiracy , but I don't want to waste words to explain to you . It seems that you can only be confused. Damn it, don't you think it's a pity to kill me like this? Yes, it's a pity to be honest, but there's no other way . It seems you're not so scary that I can't deal with you. Do you know what white phosphorus means ? Looking back, I'll know you. You're really too young. This trick is useless. I won't give you any chance. Listen, I'm behind you now, right? She said something to you. She didn't say anything . Then why don't you kill her? I don't kill women. Do you want to come back with me or do you want me to kill you here? I don't want to . Don't think you're smart. Don't get lucky. Don't try. This is what you said to me. Now I'm giving it back to you. And you don't have white phosphorus now. No one can. I can't save you. If I told you that you couldn't kill me, would you believe it? Don't tell me it's you. I wouldn't believe it if I told you . In fact, I already knew you were following me , right? Your hiding skills are very good. I can't find you, but I I knew you were behind me, so I thought of this way to deal with you. What way? A round ball. I feel like I'm listening to a story. DS Goodbye, I will definitely kill you. No, he's coming . Come with me, hurry, hurry, hurry , hurry. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , have a look. 08-89-313, give it to me. Go find Xiao Yuan, you guys, take care of the master's body and then come and pick me up. He's here. How do you know that I can feel his murderous intent ? Be careful, Rie, protect the commander. I'll go after him. Come on, come on. What's going on ? Is he chasing or chasing? Hurry up, double eagle, hurry up. The grenade can't be withdrawn. I can't run away. Chase me. Yes, hurry up . Get in and leave from the chimney inside. Come on, go up and see how Mr. Shen is doing. We searched every corner of the sub-station IN L. No trace of them was found and the door of the sub-station was open. IN L IN L IN L Mr. Shen and the others are all gone. How did they get in? Everyone, be careful. Yan Shuangying is shooting . He must have run away. Not far away, we split up and ran away. Why did we shoot? Spare my life, spare my life, spare my life, spare my life, I didn't want to let you go. I'm here. Take off your uniform . Take off your uniform . Open the door. Open the door. Open the shooting. Stop shooting. Come with me, the deputy section chief is in trouble. Something happened. Come with me, hurry and search carefully. They ran away from the window . They are chasing me down below. Hurry. This way of death is really ugly. What should Shuangying do now? Go and burn. Hao Rie in the corpse room. I am such a passionate and good man here. Listen carefully. I will shout one, two, three . You let him go. I will give you the gun. Don't ask for tricks from me, otherwise I will shoot. You should know my speed . Why is man one? When you have a woman, you become so stupid. What do you mean? When my gun goes off, your head will explode. Then Rie will run. How far do you think she can run? Ten feet. Then I will take the letter from your body. A brief goodbye. When you took over the enemy's gun, didn't you check to see if there were bullets in the gun? 3 You lost again . Don't move . To be honest, I 've wanted to fight you alone for a long time. Isn't now a good opportunity? I want to use your heart as my trophy. How about the taste of my eagle hook? Your heart is indeed very much like a trophy. Now that Rie has passed, I want to go back and kill Xiaoyuan. Can you do it alone? We will meet here tomorrow morning. Okay, okay. I still have a few friends. I'll bring them with me. In this case, I'm going to eat you. You could have eaten me. You know why you can't fight me because you're not cruel enough.