- [Derek] This is the about a chemical reaction It releases a tremendous amount of heat. Oh no, the GoPro. Liquefying metal. It is so hot. It is not an explosive, but it can cause explosions. That is crazy! But the reactants are so inert, they can withstand a Do you think this whole thing's going to blow up in my face? In fact, when Hollywood directors wanted something that this is the reaction they chose. But in its most common use, one basically unchanged in over a century, it has helped move billions In the late 1800s, Karl Hans Goldschmidt, were preparing to join Their father owned a chemical factory making dyes for fabrics. So they studied chemistry of Bunsen burner fame. After their father's early death, Karl took over management of the company, later joined by his younger brother. One of Hans' first major research aims was to find a way to produce pure metals. These were essential for from clothing and At that time, good dyes Most were faint and Some required the collection of large quantities of exotic insects. These days, we take color for granted, but in this drab world, for bright color fast dyes. One such dye was Scheele's green, which was chemically copper arsenite. As its name suggests, it was toxic, though exactly how toxic Still, it became the of the 19th century because The red color of the was made from cochineal, a central American insect mixed with tin. The addition of tin made the So the demand for pure metals was strong. - They had their experience by dissolving them in and all kinds of things. - [Reporter] The incoming cyanide solution goes on dissolving the particles after amalgamation and liquefies it. - And then work with the and then reduce the salts And every step that you again cause problems, right? Reducing it in a furnace, you have to deal with all the exhaust and the contamination through the carbon. - [Derek] And metals are very difficult to separate from each other. - They basically, they form - Like an alloy. They all become, in a sense, one substance that has one melting point, which is why you have to to separate them. - [Derek] So Hans came He would react a metal with aluminum metal, and his hope was that the forming aluminum oxide and pure chromium. This type of reaction is now or thermite reaction. So I have come to visit a company that is a direct I feel like they've of Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory, but instead it's a thermite factory. Here we are going to try to replicate Han's first successful reaction. All experiments in this under the supervision of professionals taking proper safety precautions. - Originally, the first but we are using copper, - [Derek] This is like 300 grams. - [Axel] Yeah, 300 grams of thermite. - Pour it in? All right. We pour it into the crucible and ignite. All right. - Yeah. - Yeah. - Leave it, leave it, leave it. - Whoa! (laughs) That is like fireworks. - [Axel] But you bet he was (both laughing) Handful of aluminum powder, - [Derek] As you can see, the reaction releases a lot of energy. The temperature of thermite 2,000 degrees Celsius, and That's because aluminum forms When those bonds form, they way more than is required to we started with. This energy melts all the and makes them glowing hot. It is hard to express It feels like staring at the sun. If you see clips in this video where the highlights are overexposed, it's because it is so hard to judge how bright the reaction will be, and it's almost always So that dropping down the bottom there, is that liquid copper? - [Axel] That's liquid copper that was being created. - [Derek] But if you get this hot mixture of pure metal and aluminum oxide, how do you separate the two materials to isolate the pure metal? We're trying to set up an experiment that no one has ever seen before and it's actually going to allow us to see inside the crucible. We cut the crucible in half of thermally resistant glass, as a window into the reaction. People said this would be impossible, that you wouldn't be able to see anything or that the glass would just break. - We've never done this on this way, this clear. And I think it's going to be fascinating to then start to analyze - Now this glass has so it shouldn't shatter immediately when it comes into Ah, that is hot. That is really hot. But the melting temperature of silica is around 1,700 degrees Celsius, which is definitely lower than the temperature of the reaction, so the glass certainly will melt. The hope is it melts slowly - The glass will melt and at the end, we have just a very thin So you will ignite it. It's up - I think someone else should ignite it. I think someone else should ignite it. - [Christof] Why? - Because I don't trust myself. We saw how incapable I That's it? (shouts) - Leave it, leave it, leave it. - [Derek] For this reaction, we'll be using iron thermite, so a combination of iron Okay, that's good. Let's do this. Holy. Oh no, the GoPro. Oh boy. Oh no. Oh no. That's the end of the GoPro. The reaction starts at the igniter and expands outwards in all directions. To me, it almost looks like It looks organic in how You see a pulse. Boom, boom, boom. - [Christof] It's living. - Yeah, that's what it looks like. Why is there pulsing? - I don't know. - We try to understand. - We never knew that it did that. We do this for 100 years and you know, every portion - Do you think that's gas escaping up and that's almost what causes the pulsing? Like some gas heats up and then it makes space for the next one? That's what you seem to see over here. - [Christof] Yeah. - Wow, that is hot. That is really hot. I wanted to get a closer look, so I asked them to put some and then I would shoot from - I'm ready. It's rolling, it's rolling, it's rolling, it's rolling, it's rolling. There it goes, there there it goes, there Wow! Yeah! The exposure's pretty good. Oh my goodness. Incredible. This is the closest I think anyone's ever filmed a thermite reaction. You can see that the it reacts fast, but before advancing again. - Should I take it? - Sure. Yeah, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, Oh boy. I have two ideas about why this might be. First, there might is a mixture of grains, big particles of aluminum and iron oxide, and they need to be to react efficiently. Maybe a little pocket reacts is slightly less ideal enough to trigger the My second idea is that in The reaction heats the air, which expands, increasing the pressure between the grains and possibly pushing some away from the reaction front. So once that air escapes, Once all the thermite has reacted, things get really violent. Molten metal is ejected out and inside, the liquid is sloshing around. This could be due to some actually turning from liquid into a gas. Now, I know it sounds wild to but the boiling point of Iron boils above 2,800 Celsius, and there are other like manganese that boil Now, once that boiling stops, and now comes the key The density of liquid iron of liquid aluminum oxide. So iron settles to the bottom as aluminum oxide floats to the top. Now, when the metal of the crucible, the first Only after it has drained does the aluminum oxide or slag follow. You can actually see the change Liquid iron has a viscosity like water, so you can see it coming And then the slag starts right there. Yeah, it comes out smooth. - [Christof] Really, really cool. - Whoa. - [Christof] And this - [[Derek] Yeah, you can totally see it. Wow. It definitely gives you a And you can see the flames And it still records. Look at the bubbles on the glass. You see those bubbles? And that beautiful shot I mean, this is impressive work We're going to put a cobblestone, normal street paver inside here. It's made of limestone. We'll pour the thermite And then we'll see that the Then that solution, it's going - Yeah. - Whoa. Okay. It looks like it's breaking into pieces. That's a good bit of lava. - [Axel] Did you see it? - Oh yes. Ordinary rocks like cobblestones just like the slag, as the And this is key to in the crucible. So Hans Goldschmidt to make pure metals like This could be great for but Hans suspected it could He patented the process in 1895 and wrote it up for publication. He wrote, &quot;The procedure that I have here is in its principle so that I could hardly have if not for its surprising Thermite was a solution One of the first applications of thermite was to weld metal parts - Wherever you need a very, and kind of a remote area of bringing, you know, tons of equipment and tons of welding gear, You know, some of the first customers were in fact shipping companies. When some shaft would break at the time, you would be lost. And now having like thermite to be able to at least fix that in some way that would get you home It was being able to fix in engine blocks and to because you know, like we said, it takes two guys and the bucket. - Of course, in this case, the iron thermite would but rather steel. This was done by including elements in the thermite powder. - Nobody needs pure iron. It's very soft, it corrodes and nobody will want that, right? - You need iron with some carbon in it. - Exactly right. You need iron with some - So the majority of is steel thermite. - You have this steel mill that you can, you know, move wherever After the end of the Cold War, we would use thermite say gun barrels from tanks. Basically you have a portion of thermite that you basically stick and then you would ignite it weld the gun barrel and destroy it and it would be completely Those are all kinds of weapons or stuff that were not useful anymore that we use thermite to destroy because it's very quick - And it's very final. Once you've put that in, of making use of that weapon again. - A modern application of thermite is to use the heat generated Past a certain temperature, the Curie temperature, So information stored at high enough temperatures This looks like a very - Yes. - I'm used to seeing it as a powder. - Before it was also powder and we dry it. - Can I pick it up or? - I mean, it's like a - Yeah, lay it down. (laughs) That is cool. So if we want to make sure no one can read the information on this hard drive, I could put this on top? - Yeah. - There you go. When we ignite the crucible, we have this high temperature And here we have it for 10 minutes, so everything is destroyed. - So you're controlling the energy release to make it slower here. - Yes. The temperature's not so high, and reaction is slower. - I am going to light this thermite tile in all four corners, and it's going to generate and we'll see what it does to this laptop. All right, let's light it. Ooh, I like this. See how it's oozing? Whoa. It's a totally different effect. Whoa. Yeah, that's getting hot. It's getting to the laptop Like you got to see the molten goo coming out from underneath that laptop. That is wild. After seeing so much thermite, this is a totally different version of it. Look at the puddle of metal there. Oh. Yeah, nobody's getting That is awesome. I did not expect to see Can I lift it? (both laughing) - I've never destroyed but every time I get a spam call, I wish I could just of my phone number disappear. Fortunately, today's Now, I used to get which frustrated me so making a video where I would just mess with these spam callers to But ever since I started I no longer have to because You see, there are a lot that collect all sorts of like your name, phone and even your social security number. And then they sell this which is why you can get calls from people who you've never even But Incogni battles these data brokers. You simply give Incogni permission and they figure out who has your data. And then they know which laws apply, and so they can send the right letter with the correct legal with the request to What I love about Incogni is and it actually works, and So far, they filled out 145 of which have been completed, saving me over 108 hours of work. And it just keeps running continuously protecting me The best part is that I've hardly gotten any more spam calls. So to try Incogni and fight visit incogni.com/veritasium. Click that link down in the description or scan the QR code right here. And make sure to use the code veritasium to get 60% off the annual subscription. Head over to incogni.com/veritasium So I want to thank Incogni for sponsoring this part of the video, Now you might think, given that thermite could be but it's actually not well - What makes thermite so is that you can control it so well. If you have an explosion, you can kind of calculate and say it's, you know, that you get out, but it's really hard - Maybe one of the reasons is because when you have typically your reactants are solid and the products are gases, and create a lot of pressure. But in this case, both the reactants and products are solids? - They're solids and liquids. - Yeah, right. You have so much control - Woo. I feel like I This property makes it possible where explosives would In 1933, 4 weeks after Adolf Hitler became the chancellor of Germany, the Reichstag building and it would only be fully But the burnt out steel integrity and needed to be removed. Now, conventional explosives damage to the rest of the old building. So on November 22nd, 1957, to the dome and when ignited, which fell neatly into the allowing the repairs to be completed. Applications like this are possible because the thermite reaction They have the ingredients so dialed in that you can actually ignite of molten metal flying all over the place. This mixture includes They don't participate in the reaction, but they do absorb heat as they melt. So they help control the rate of reaction and the temperature reached. - [Axel] There you go. - That's it. - That's it? - I don't think it was in. Oh boy. Whoa. Wow. - It's interesting, like looking it looks like a cornbread One of the really important how long after the reaction flowing out the bottom of the crucible. This is known as the tap time. It's critical because if the metal inside doesn't But if the tap time is too long, then the metal dissolves of the crucible and it than it could have been. - So the chemistry of the over the time. in there. The log it stays in there, and this is why it's very to control how long it - You want the tap time to just right. We've set up this experiment here to test. Can we control the time So the idea is it should then this one, then that one. We're going to ignite and see what happens. - You good? 3, 2, 1. Yes. They all ignited at almost but the top time of the first crucible, we got one, was by far the shortest. Two. It'd be amazing if this one stops and the third one goes, like that would be very, very impressive. Come on, third one. Wow. That's great. That's fantastic. Another attribute that can be controlled is the temperature of the metal. - Here we have two different versions. So we have a version with 12% damping, and here we have with 25. - Sometimes you want the metal to come out a little hotter or a little colder. There we go. Nicely controlled ignition. Well, that one goes a lot more. Wow. You could see the 12% one went first. Whoa! You can see that, you know, so you can get a bit of a sense, but I feel like both I don't know. - The one on the right side is one of the less dampened portions, and the other one is one We could dramatically in both directions, a little bit higher and - [Derek] All of this control is achieved by carefully adjusting - This is the starting point About once or twice a day a truck comes and drops in this. This is mill scale. So this is basically a mixture When you hot roll steel, is very reactive because it's so hot and there is so much water so that the surface actually and creates this mill scale. And then they use like water jets to blow it off the steel surface. And for the rolling mill, this is just a waste product, right? - [Derek] Whoa. - That is cool. - The mill scale from and then gets dried they're not exactly friends and you want the mill scale and then stay dry, so - The iron oxide is to the top floor, and there, the particles are separated and compositions before being This also has to be very dry, I imagine. - It's not as much a problem here because the way that doesn't contain any water. With the iron oxide, with the water jets. We have to control all the which is the iron oxide and that every portion has their And then we get the reaction that we want and also the chemical qualities - You guys use this word portion. - Portion, yeah. That's A portion is basically - No cameras. - [Cameraman] Always - [Derek] So the portions and stored in the warehouse. - This is our warehouse, but And this is not even the biggest. - Can I ask you one question here? Okay, yesterday we saw there's a tremendous amount and in this warehouse, there's a tremendous amount of thermite. So the question for you is, - It's a fair question. It's a fair question. - They set up this how safe thermite is to handle. They want me to try to ignite with increasing sized ignition sources. But I wasn't entirely Maybe you can help me ignite it. - Where's Christof? Have you tried this by the way? - [Christof] No. - Well then, under these circumstances, I would get you some safety gear. - [Christof] I'm 95% sure - 95? That's safety gear. Is that how we're doing it? This is a fireproof suit. - At least there will be footage - So first, here's a little lighter. All right, let's give it a shot. See if I can get this to ignite. Three, two, one. I'm making some of the thermite so that they are actually glowing orange. Oh, oh, oh. It's getting quite bright. Are you getting worried watching that? - No, not getting worried. - I heard you make a noise and I was like, &quot;No, he's getting worried. I shouldn't keep it on the same spot.&quot; Do you think this whole thing's - [Axel] No, I hope not. - So you can see like even getting it- - [Axel] Glowing hot. it still won't ignite. All right, let's pull out a bigger torch. I'm going to try with this one. Got a nice big blue flame there. I feel like this is not as so I'm getting a little but just barely. We're going to have to All right, let's torch Do you think we can build up enough heat? How hot? - [Axel] 500. - Did you say 500? - I can see a lot of There's some pieces coming out. - Nice and glowing. - 700 degrees. I think this is an excellent demonstration that thermite is not going to ignite under normal conditions. Wow. - [Axel] There you go. It's still glowing. - [Derek] Did it melt? - [Axel] Yeah, that can happen. - It can melt and not- - Not ignite. What the. That is absolutely nuts. - Obviously, there is a lot but getting that energy is So if it would catch a fire the wooden pallets would burn, you would not be able - Would not even. - No, it would just sit there - The key to this lack of - The aluminum is quite stable because it's covered in aluminum oxide, and only if it gets so violently heated that that layer breaks down in then the reaction can start. - So the aluminum oxide of thermite? - The seal. This reaction has a very so it can't be started by a Okay. This is why we've been using Basically, the same stuff - [Christof] Happy New Year. - It gets hot enough to break through the aluminum oxide - We want to make sure that is so high that it can Because once it's going. - [Derek] I am going to push - There is no way of stopping it. (thermite explodes) - That is crazy. I was filming in Germany so this is just a taste of what's to come. We'll find out how thermite and we'll have a dedicated video on the most common welding railroad tracks together. There probably will be millions of people watching this video. Most of them have probably What is the likelihood over one of your thermite welds? They will. - [Derek] 100%? - [Derek] So make sure you're subscribed to be notified about these