- Stress is a force that is It's a part of our lives There are so many societal and burnout is and how we that we often don't in sharing our own struggles, vulnerabilities, or weaknesses. But understand that underneath it all, you are not alone, it is not your fault, and likely, many other people I noticed it when I was seeing patients in a packed waiting room. No one speaks to each other, but those same patients the door would close, and because of the stigma and The goal of life is not to it's in fact biologically It's to live a life with so stress can serve you I'm Dr. Aditi Nerurkar, with an expertise in stress, burnout, mental health and resilience, and the author of &quot;The Five Resets: Rewire Your Brain and Body for Less Stress and More Resilience.&quot; I became an expert on stress and burnout because I wanted to during a difficult time. I was a medical resident in my second year of medical residency. I was taking care of but not my own in that cardiac ICU. My head would hit the pillow, I'd be exhausted from a long day's work, and I would suddenly have the stampede of wild horses across my chest, and it continued to happen. My doctor did the full medical workup and everything checked out normal. And so my doctor very said, &quot;Everything's great. It's probably just stress. Just try to relax.&quot; My first reaction was, &quot;Stress? Stress doesn't happen to people like me. I'm resilient,&quot; because I was as many people are. I was taught at a very young that pressure makes diamonds, and so as I was moving working 80 hours a week, I would say to myself whenever there was a difficult moment, &quot;Hey, I'm a diamond in the making.&quot; And then my diamond cracked, and the resilience myth is that resilient people don't get burned out and don't feel a sense of stress. But in fact, true resilience and human limitations. It honors your ability to say no, and it uses a lens of self-compassion. And so I was living the resilience myth because I didn't know any better. And then when I found that is when I said, &quot;I wanna be the doctor I wish I had back during that difficult time.&quot; Not all stress is created equal. In fact, there are two kinds of stress. There is healthy, productive stress in scientific terms we say Getting a new job or a Healthy stress moves your life forward. But when stress goes dysfunctional and unproductive, that's when stress goes from And those two are very different when it comes to how they Under normal circumstances, our brain is led by the prefrontal cortex. That's this area right and that area, the prefrontal cortex, governs things like memory, planning, organization, forward strategic thinking. But under periods of stress, your brain is governed by the amygdala, and your amygdala is focused on survival and self-preservation or your Think back to when we You would be in the forest You could either fight the The challenge now is that we have in the modern Bills, relationship constraints, job constraints, or parenting. All of these metaphorical make your stress response and the amygdala on in the background at a low hum, chronically. During stress, your inner Those negative experiences are sticky in the brain like Velcro. Your brain grabs onto those because it's a sense of hypervigilance and your body and brain are And so often there's this and that sense of self-agency You want to be able to do new, important, exciting things in your life, and when you reset your stress, you can take that megaphone out There are so many false that stress can influence you. Unhealthy maladaptive of constraint on the mind because you are living So think about that as you're and moving in the world, that likely the same amount of good and bad is happening at all times. The goal with resetting your stress is to make negative experiences less sticky, moving away from Velcro to Teflon. If you are feeling a sense if that inner critic is understand that first you are not alone and it is not your fault. There is robust data to show that early childhood experiences, particularly adverse events in childhood, can influence your stress response throughout your life into adulthood. But it's also important to understand the science of the brain. We used to think that your brain, what you had at birth is it was like a real grab bag- but now we are learning that grows, and adapts based situations, and stimulation. And through the process your brain is constantly regenerating brain cells and circuits. So if you have had a difficult if you've experienced trauma and you do have an influence you can over time with create a new neural pathway for managing your stress and burnout. It is a misconception to think that to decrease your stress and burnout, you need to revamp your whole life. So how can you reset in the here and now in the middle of your and stressful life? Let's start with these two resets: The first is a breathing exercise and the second is gratitude. The reason your breath is because your breath is the in the body that is under both voluntary and involuntary control. So you can use your breath as a way to tap into your mind-body and then later influence it to serve you. This is a three-second exercise. Stop, breathe, and be. The instructions are in the name. The first thing you're what you're doing, you're just gonna stop. Take a beat and take a pause. Next, you're going to breathe. Take a deep breath in and out, and then you're going to be. Just ground yourself in the here and now in the present moment. When you are feeling a you're often feeling anxious, and anxiety is a future-focused emotion. You are on that runaway What if this doesn't go well? What if I fail? What if it's a disaster? It's all of this doom and gloom thinking. And stop, breathe, be gets you out of that what if thinking back to what is- in the here and now in the present moment. Gratitude is also a What you wanna do is you wanna write down five things you're grateful for and why. The reason gratitude is so important in reframing your stress and burnout is because it focuses on a scientific principle What you focus on grows. A written gratitude practice at 30, 60, and 90 days has shown to in managing your stress, So often when we are overwhelm, and burnout, there are things in our external world that are happening that and so we often end up feeling powerless. Learning how to manage just like riding a bike; it's not an innate thing It is something that you and it is something that you You can rewire your brain and more resilience.