- I feel like every man fantasizes about giving everything up, heading into the wilderness and trying to survive with nothing but his wits in his own two hands. But it's rare that you who has done just that. In 2019, Brent Underwood and bought an abandoned in the deserts of California. He's been living there ever since. I drove out to his ghost town because I wanted to know for years affect you? Has he found peace, purpose, or has he just lost his mind? (exhilarating music) Come on, come on. Come and get it. - I'll entertain myself for hours trying to catch the chicken 'cause one of the white When they run out of food, - Uh-oh. Take it. You're a hungry girl, come on. (bright music) - I remember I was at and the realtor just that had like 45 keys on &quot;Good luck.&quot; (both laugh) And so I was still living in Austin. I would come out here for the weekend, try to do whatever I could and that really wasn't doing anything. It was kinda like a fun hoy let's go to the ghost town for the week. But it was, nothing was really happening. It wasn't progressing. All right, welcome to my crib. And then March, 2020, you know, pandemic. Everybody's looking to where they're gonna socially distance. So I thought, what better an abandoned mining town And so moved out here in I'll stay a week, I'll And then now 4 1/2 - What was your original expectation for the experience here? - I wanted something like different that I think like There was always this like that I could be doing something more, which is probably something You know, like there You know, that type of feeling. I see my objective as bringing And you know, things that It's pretty hard to bring them back. It's like way harder than It's way more challenging, even existing up here is hard. Spiritually, every category has been harder than I But I think it's like a worthy cause. - I mean, it seems like of this town's story and its history and all the people who lived here. Do you feel responsibility for that? Does that feel very meaningful? - Yeah, it feels really meaningful. Like there's nowhere You know, I could be other places, but I just really enjoy being up here. I like the things that I've grown into Like the new skills, the hobbies, the different things that (gentle music) - [Host] There is a of young men leaving the constraints of society in venturing into the unknown. Throughout US history, this and romantic components to it. Practically, there was across the American continent. Cerro Gordo itself was founded in 1865 after silver was of the Sierra of Nevadas. Thousands of people flooded hoping to find their fortune. Around the same time a young author named Henry David Thoreau ventured into the woods near For two years, he lived His book &quot;Walden&quot; extolled the virtues of removing oneself from society, claiming that freedom can only truly of social constraints. But as I spent time with Brent, neither of these two explanations seemed to really apply to him. On the one hand, he had lost a On the other, I detected no On the contrary, it just a little bit weird. - The minds are really and the more that I understand them, the more I can kinda of where the miner used to be. I feel like the more connected to something larger than just my time. And I think that like that connection to something larger is something that I was probably looking I think coming into the project, - [Host] How the hell did - Slowly, slowly, slowly. Just dragged it inch by inch. This is one of the first things I did. - [Host] You got your snow. - I celebrated Christmas which is terribly sad when (both laugh) - Do you ever like reach the point where you feel like you're when you start talking to - Yeah, there was a time, that I got real into the two crows that live here called Heckle I got real into like dumping on them whatever I was going through. And so it's like, and then I was like really letting the So it was like full beer And a friend of mine actually called me and I was like, &quot;Oh, I haven't seen He's like, &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; And I kind of like where it's like my days had revolved around conversations with birds. (country music) - So I'm curious, like with like loneliness - I mean, it's changed even a lot since the four years I was here. You know, when I first got You know, trying to figure it out. But I think I felt less lonely because again, this was during and so I felt like all of my with anybody, so I'm I think as the world I was more aware of that loneliness. - [Host] And has your threshold - Yeah. Loneliness, it's a dangerous feeling 'cause it can be addictive, you know. It's almost like there's I guess is the right word to describe it. And so it's just like I to do whatever I want to - You get like intoxicated - Yeah. - Just like never having to - It's a bit of a selfish feeling, but it's like it's intoxicating. (country music) - A lot of people like to the desert or the and just leaving everything behind. - It's escapism. I think that's like a of like lone man in the wilderness. Is that like all of my behind wherever I leave them and they won't follow me. Maybe for the first day you're like, &quot;Wow, you know, like my The same anxiety, the same stress, the same issues still exist. Running to any mountaintop is not gonna necessarily - [Host] Brent took me deep He had filled it with even a putting green. - Yeah, this might not seem like much, but this took a decent amount of time. - This is... - To create back here. It's the rocks. - Rocks. - Totally, the rocks. - He went on to tell me that he spent most of the first year in Cerro Gordo exploring the nearly 30 miles worth of like a proverbial monk in a cave, he often sat alone in his minds Something about the darkness and simplicity seemed to calm him. As for me, by the end of the I could feel the boredom setting in aside from shooting this video, there was, well, not a - [Both] Oh. - [Host] The entire town consists of maybe half a dozen You can walk it in the end And I did walk it multiple times. Sure, the mines are really and you can kinda zen out But I'm sad to report that my dopamine fueled monkey or solace among the rocks and the dirt. I mostly just found boredom. So I don't know about you, abandoned ghost town gives me the creeps. There's a lot of sounds weird shit outside. Fortunately, this video is And these guys are These sleepbuds are super high You don't even notice that they're in your ear while you sleep. And the coolest thing is that you can play all sorts of different background noises. You can play white noise, wind blowing, nature sounds, or you can can play music while you sleep. People don't realize that of research behind sleep quality and just general quality of life. It's one of the easiest things you can do to improve both your physical That's why I always make sure to sleep with an eye mask in some form of earplug. These things are super high quality. They come in a beautiful case and they were crowdfunded by their own customers on Indiegogo. So I'm super grateful they sent me a case. They're really cool. I enjoy sleeping with him. Check them out. Link is in the description. Time for me to go to bed. (gentle music) The next morning, Brent told me that he He said he thought that So what is this exactly? - This is one of my favorite This is Burro Schmidt by hand over the course of 38 years to go through the mountain - In 1906, William Burro through the El Paso Mountains by hand. His goal was to provide an to reach the coast through the mountains. After digging for 14 years, around the mountains immediately rendering Schmidt's Tunnel useless. Yet, he continued digging. 38 years after beginning, Schmidt finally finished his tunnel. The tunnel was 760 meters long and all he had moved over but a pick, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow. Did he ever say why? - No, I guess the pretty much the day after he finished, he kinda and left after 38 years or was ever sent through the mountain. - [Host] There's like a weird of like, &quot;I started digging this tunnel, I'm gonna finish it - In my opinion, it wasn't it was about finding a purpose. - As I stood there staring into the void of Schmidt's Tunnel, In Greek mythology, Sisyphus was an evil king to roll a boulder up a Each time the boulder got it would roll back down to the bottom and he would have to start over. In his classic essay, the existential philosopher Camus argued that in effect, we are all up meaningless hills. That all human action is of an indifferent universe. That there is no predetermined only what we make of it. Instead, Camus encouraged by engaging passionately embracing experiences and and not any ultimate goal. Purpose was not found. Rather, it was invented. I couldn't help but see Burro Schmidt as a modern day Sisyphus. Despite spending his entire life digging a useless tunnel to nowhere, that tunnel gave his and ironically, 100 years later, he's still remembered for it. (gentle music) After you, sir. (gentle music) When was the moment you realized that this was a lifelong commitment? - Probably a couple days The hotel was kind of central It was like my hopes, dreams, life savings literally all and it burned down an electrical (somber music) It's a town that means a We're gonna need a lot of help. (somber music) It's kinda like one of those moments where I was on that path and then, it disappeared in some ways. And so then it was either which probably would've or like double down and commit that like, - The philosopher, Soren Kierkegaard wrote in his seminal book, &quot;Fear and Trembling&quot; that with a moment in our lives where we must give ourselves This surrender to some greater or religion or place, it's not only necessary of meaning and purpose, but deep down we all crave Kierkegaard wrote that surrendering to something will always appear and often it will initially feel wrong. As a result, finding meaning or purpose requires a leap of faith, a willingness to give of something without knowing This leap of faith, because it's inherently irrational, brings buckets of anxiety along with it. In fact, this anxiety is usually what prevents people from as they are always too skeptical or afraid to wholly give In many ways, the more irrational and absurd the commitment, the better because the more irreversible In this sense, dramatic gestures and moving to the desert, and then dedicating one's life savings to the work is not only but actually helpful in the (somber music) Do you think that no way back that sense of purpose? - For me it was. I think it's too comfortable otherwise. Like for me, I had a comfortable life living in Austin, Texas. I had a nice apartment and And I think I needed that to like fully bid on it. Just kind of accepting it And so finally kind of committing to it. It was nice. It was just like, okay, I that part of the equation now. I'll have plenty of other worries. And so yeah, I think whatever to that leap, and in this case, it was a pretty traumatic experience. I'm glad that I kind of - What Brent is referring to is the freedom found in commitment. Another way to think about it is that freedom is not the It's actually the ability by the things you don't want. So is the lesson of Cerro Gordo, the freedom in giving up alternatives? - I think that's a big part of it. There's comfort that comes with and so I think that like for me at least, it's been probably the of my life, finally and feeling like, &quot;Hey, this is it.&quot; - [Host] The more time I spent with him, the more I couldn't shake the feeling that Brent was in a way, Here was a man who sat out upon a seemingly impossible Revitalize a ghost town The project would likely For what gain? On the one hand, it Brent had developed a dizzying level of arcane knowledge about silver mining, 19th century Californian history, and even the chemistry of - It's all zinc that's been That dial is how deep Pools were air powered. And they would just stack They would look for what's called float. They stopped using 200, 400, 500, 700. Dynamite legally had to Blue smithsonite is almost - [Host] But on the other served no real utility or purpose in 2024. It was like digging a tunnel that a road had already been built around. But I can't knock Brent because after all, am I so different? Most of the things I spend my time on probably won't matter decades from now. Yet, I still love doing them anyway. In the end, Brent found the Have you? (exhilarating music) (wind blowing)