When Galileo invented the telescope, people makes me think about a lot of the stuff happening theories. For decades, reconciling quantum theoretical physics. But what if the path forward but rather through ingenious experiments we could close collaborator of Roger Penrose, is proposing atoms and quantum technologies that could probe despite its potential, many researchers in the the allure of purely theoretical work, the inertia the challenge of breaking away from fashionable Fuentes' inventive approaches to testing quantum of the physics community. Professor Ivette excited to have you on here. The audience, it's it right now, maybe, but the audience is in for a Thank you very much. I was just telling you just see it very often, let's say. So it was very nice you forever. So this feeling of after seeing you wow, that's you there. So that was really very I saw some of the podcasts that you were talking Einstein said, I have this idea, acceleration and work with a scalar field? It's like a little mole maybe it was a mistake to unite space and time, variable speed of light. So then he's like, okay, me introduce tensors, a different mathematical theory to work, it needs to be 26 dimensional. story. Okay, why don't we add something called cool. Problem. There are so many types of not four dimensional, but it's some progress. strings. Okay, problem. We still have five and we foundations of physics and in unification, there's it's like the only game in town and how there is So I am working at the moment in the unification is kind of really focusing on that problem. It's my results available, but they're coming up. Of interesting step. I think we managed to achieve, And I thought that maybe the story of that could been discussing. Yes. And I've been looking at this is a wonderful experience for myself. And I you. So please go over your recent results. foundations of physics as a student at university. He was teaching me quantum mechanics. And I a lot about interpretations of quantum mechanics. generous because at some point I approached you on this topic. And he said, you know what? really difficult path and I don't want that for sort of mainstream. And if you're still interested back. And I think that is somehow related to what he found it extremely difficult and he wanted to yes, great, you know, a good student, come and very generous by saying that. So I approached There was like the possibility, a competition him for a reference letter and he said, why would because you know, I got like A's in all your And then from there we just went on talking. And and starting to see what I wanted to do. And I were interested in theory were actually going into about string theory, like all of my classmates, I think this is a beautiful idea that we treat then the idea that there is another dimension you could unify the notion of different particles once I got more into it and, you know, sort of dimensions, then I thought, this reminds you know, what I meant. So I'm sure that most of but back in the time, people wanted to describe used to think that they had to follow, nature had figure. It's a shape. It's really interesting in them, right? And those are the ones that don't maybe later because we've been trying to unify more than a hundred years. And we're probably figure and we're unwilling to let go of that. And like some ideas. Actually, I think that maybe even in the equation, let's say. LRW Oh, yeah. HG So using circles, well, first one was not possible. I problem and boom, you bang it and you fix it and LRW Right, right, the whack-a-mole. HG Exactly. you add another circle and that doesn't work back then people used to need something like 600 a planet. And then came Kepler and says, they're necessary to hit things with a hammer anymore, it when I looked into string theory with a bit more me of the epicycles, it can't be right. And I he smiled and he said, I'm going to give you the interesting. What was it specifically about what he liked that I was so in a way critical of string else was going, because I just had a feeling into string theory when he said that you should go then let me tell you what that is, because that my degree, I think also like many students, I that's always like many students go also in that did an undergraduate thesis on Seyfert galaxies, and even my first paper is on Seyfert galaxies, I studying these beautiful objects, but something I was so aware of it like I'm now, but what was objects, I felt were not really bringing me to the of reality? HG Ah, okay, okay. So something was even the most ideal answer to any astronomical aspects of the questions at your heart. Okay. I could spend my whole life studying Seyfert and I would get some, you know, I already had everything. But I felt like I'm not going to be on the questions that I'm really interested in. in understanding sort of more foundational So I was in the cafeteria at the university, and with him, Pablo Barberis, ran into the cafeteria they demonstrated quantum teleportation. And I was But then it would play a role in my life as a visiting professor in Vienna within that group oh, some people in Europe demonstrated quantum what, they also managed to trap single particles, I remember my teacher, Luis de la Pena, used to apply to single particles. In experiments, we're particles and stuff like that. So then when I get super interesting, because if now they can do address some of these fundamental questions. And thing to do. So I had already a little bit talked about quantum optics? He said, that's excellent. of Peter Knight, with the idea of doing quantum working on quantum information and entanglement let's say, in the interface of quantum optics I did very well. And then from there, I went to my neighbor. Yes, exactly. You're in Toronto, exciting, because I think I was the first or the information. The Institute wasn't established as office in Waterloo. It was so cool. We had sofas was really a fantastic experience. But when I got very small one. And then there was string of physics. So we were such a small group. I quantum field theory and curved space. I got very I'm missing out on something. Because you were in in quantum information were talking about quantum beautiful, but if you work on that, then it's do you fix it? And again, you get lost in those really not for me. So I thought maybe I change and made a few jumps. No, I went from astrophysics, a paper on quantum computing. What am I going to do? idea. And I started, without knowing this was kind a young researcher, I started to mix them. So I Black Hole, Entanglement in Non-Inertial Frames. cited paper. Wow. And it really sort of opened a because you were also talking about how difficult a name and known and a position and so on. So in Imperial College about measures of entanglement eternal black holes and so on. And it was a very less established in that direction that people I was having a great time working on that. But oh, entanglement in black holes and things like maths and getting lost in maths. When you say removed from experimental underpinning? Yes, you know what, I want to like, bring this stuff of course, not me, I'm a theoretician, but propose Carlos Sabin, who was someone doing theory, but with superconducting circuits and stuff like that. I didn't even have a clear idea of how we would go. And we together started to work with quantum curved spacetime. So now that's going to go into But I thought it was relevant to what you were to start proposing experiments. Some of them, you know, and the experiments have been done. quantum and relativity, but really proposing because I was working with quantum field theory little bit more about that in a moment. And then that is my own, inspired by the work of Roger I managed to kind of come up with a theory that to do that very soon. So that's kind of the story comes from a very different perspective. It comes and quantum information, and looking at what we can learn from these theories and their the experiment. Wonderful. Thank you for that they're addressed in the talk itself. So you to quantum information, then you saw some talks on to go into that field. But you said it would be But would it be? Because astrophysics, does it not jump would that be? It would be like jumping Well, it could have been a bit like jumping back, was not really related to general relativity how companions of sefer galaxies could trigger the and so on. So yeah, I guess because of the type like another jump. Okay, okay, cool. And then now theory and curved spacetime. Now some people would has something to do with curved spacetime. actually I'm going to do that in my slides. Great. quantum field theory and curved spacetime let's say quantum effects and relativistic reflex the full theory. It doesn't resolve actually So yeah, let me get started and I'm going to get The floor is yours. Okay, thanks. So yeah, there and very interesting ones. And I wrote in this some of them I work on as well. So for example, one. So yeah, well questions like, is dark energy What's the physics of the very early times and quantum systems? And so on. There's many, many that don't have answers. And underpinning our our difficulty actually to unify quantum mechanics few years ago and it was all about how can we use many of these fundamental questions came up. And got up and said, well, but nobody is addressing elephant in the room? So that, you know, we for quantum physics and general relativity and they're other interesting questions? And then that's where question to answer. So this is like the very but I just, you know, a bit designed in on one axis. So that would be C, the velocity of would be the gravitational constant G and then I'm trying to show that, well, we have some pieces that kind of answer some of the questions or work done in the last years in different pieces of this So quantum field theory and curved spacetime of a puzzle, but it doesn't do the whole thing so this actually title of this slide, should we from Roger Penrose. And what he means by that is, and modify general relativity? That's what we we do the contrary, keep the principles of general you know, like most people working on unification, But Roger thinks differently, thinks that is the measurement problem. So he supports more, general relativity, and then trying to modify both agree that it's more likely you have to always give more priority to general relativity in like a few things about both theories. So let's go physics, time is absolute in quantum theory. So independent of its state of motion. And this Galilean transformations. So the underpinning as in classical physics. So in the same, know that notions. The Schrodinger equation treats space and in time and two in x. It treats time like a and you use operators which are completely from there, they would be incompatible with the quantum theory means quantum mechanics and not of my background, I use that more when I say but that I'm just talking about Schrodinger yes. Well, then in quantum theory, we have the superposition of two distinguishable locations at well, many people call the measurement problem, is probabilistic, fundamentally probabilistic. space or time, we have an uncertainty principle precisely, then you cannot simultaneously measure summary of some of these, let's say, fundamental in which way they're different and why are time and length are not absolute, are observer relativity are Lorentz transformations. And if let's say the more radical thing I think that we not different in the way that we understand them right? If you tell anyone space and time are a with that. But that's what Einstein showed us, dimensional object, which is space-time. And observer. And then you have in relativity, if you And then if you look at two different points in rates at different points. So already there treat space and time on an equal footing. So let's second derivative in space, you should also have see how that is already incompatible with quantum time is at the heart of our difficulties to unify how would you see if a mass is in a superposition at different rates? I mean, the Schrodinger one time. You cannot think about such questions no? Another thing, well, just to finish with thing about the outcome of measurements being in that sense, and we can measure space and time the most interesting question that we have massive superposition, where the mass is in a And this is something that you cannot answer because, well, I'm going to go more into that fixed background, so a fixed spacetime metric, but the fields themselves, or the mass itself, question. I think this is really an interesting for example, from the experiments, that you can So you can take an electron and put the electron the quantum fields generated are in quantum and quantum optics has been a theory that has know that the electromagnetic field can be in can gravity also be in a quantum state in this well, yes, because the moment that we have, the gravitational field produced by the atom question is more if that's a stable situation or more into detail of that, comes in and says, well, and gravity collapses the wave function, which And that would explain more like the transition that would explain why we don't see, let's say, and so on. I'm going to talk more about that in a this is the most interesting question to answer. could act different to the other forces. And has an equivalence principle. So there is not an equivalence principle, if you're in a lift and you so in a box outside, you could not distinguish you're in the presence of a gravitational field And that is something that is specific from from the other forces. So that is something also being fundamentally different. Okay, so I mean, but also, as I said, it underpins other very found this picture, the one with the stars and so know, one of the things I lost, because I lost my to the images. So I'm sorry I had done that I liked it very much. And it made me think about let's say if you want cosmology, of where are we? What are those points in the sky that appear at without instruments, you know? So I can imagine, know, people sitting around the fireplace looking we. Without the telescope, you can imagine how humanity came up with when the only possibility and look at the sky. Then Galileo invented the that when Galileo invented the telescope, And that also makes me think about a lot of the refuse to look at certain theories. That reminds talking about, well, I mean, if you're working have sort of the moral responsibility of looking that, I think it's like refusing to pay attention it's a little bit equivalent, like refusing to somebody else comes with a new invention and no, I don't want to even look. But that developed incredibly. We have amazing, like the what they can do. But well, now with very good look really into the past of our universe and then in expansion and so on. And we can come up with thanks to those observations. Same if you think with the idea of the atoms. But again, it's not into the microscopic world that you can do better here about how important have instruments been in better. Right? So when it comes to these scales interplay, we're blind. We don't even have We don't have anything. So how do you go about, string theory and loop quantum gravity and many of is that you do what you can when what you have at studies with mathematics because our mathematics that, how actually string theory has allowed we've learned about mathematics thanks to those mathematics, well, there's many possibilities. you can think about. But which one is the right need to see if actually nature behaves like my competing theory, a different one. And which one theories in principle and their predictions. How to go to the experiment. You need to go to those we sort of have them already. And we need to questions of unification. All right. What I think let's say, you come up with an idea. So this would example of the atoms, right? So the Greek came on with the idea that there must be something in must be this unit and the idea of it cannot be well, if you want to observe an atom, right? But you have to do some theory about what people started to develop better theories of pancake theory where you had some electrons, like where you have the nuclei and the electrons going right? So you need to create some theory so that idea that you had that there's atoms. Because you develop a new sensor without some sort of theory. you a starting point to say, okay, now I'm going the microscope, and you look through it, and then like detectors click or something like right? And then you might then find out that your can improve it and modify your apparatus, and then start making better theories all the time and happened with quantum optics. It seems like this understanding you correctly, it sounds like what or in your shower, an idea comes to you, it's natural language, you then have to formulate it check that against quote-unquote reality with an and the experimental proposal, that's what is also mathematical, right? I have to write down and these are your measurements, and this is the to build this device, and I'm going to show you of my proposals to do that, and then you need to a specific example in quantum optics? Please very healthy cycle, and I think that's why there's is because this happens all the time. People write papers about it, they make a proposal, they work together, and boom, they show that, and field. And I think I was used to that, so when I and entanglement in black holes, I was like, oh, because there is no way to make a measurement in no, no, I want to do theory that it can actually and general relativity, but that I can test in the don't know, maybe 15 years, that's what I've been develop new sensors that will reach these scales interplay, so that we can then get into this I forgot, what did I put here for, it's an old fundamental physics, it's fundamental physics, so when I was at university, and I learned about the day, well, for example, Luiz de la Pena a few particles at very small scales, so where applies to the large scales, starting with we need to make corrections to general relativity, proper time in a satellite, and you need to we have in GPS. So it would start, let's say, know that general relativity doesn't really apply of galaxies, the observations there contradict the the whole idea of dark matter comes about, so it you're a student, and you're told quantum physics to the very big. Now, because of this circle that quantum technologies, they developed amazingly, and I want to tell you a lot about that. So long-range quantum entanglement, so what are superposition states, or entangled states, and and what can we learn about the interplay through long-range quantum experiments. Then to work on using quantum theory, I wanted to colleagues in general relativity were laughing at small scales, forget it, space-time is a bit anything. I'll show you that that's not true. And relativistic effects, we're just not looking I'll tell you more when I get there. The one that in an important manner, is large mass quantum the progress in that direction, and how far if gravity indeed collapses quantum superpositions mind. So with GPSs, they're using an atomic clock, phenomenon, and then they have to correct because interplay between general relativity and QFT, or go into the details of the question that you just really question right to the point. But the short in a way, out. They find solutions, which I don't well, they maybe approximately work, but actually let's say, rigorous with what you're doing. And the these questions. So I'll go, I have a slide me. AG Great, we think alike. HL. Yes, I noticed actually. AG Cool. HL. Okay, so let's talk about you know, when Pablo came, my colleague, into quantum teleportation in the lab that it was in a tabletop experiment. So you have like with mirrors and lasers and so on. And that's how some years later, wanted to see how big can the still have entanglement. So this is entanglement demonstrate entanglement across two different promising. So he said, well, let's keep going. And across 144 kilometers in the Canary Islands. AG that connected the two buildings, nor in this experiments that are connected by a waveguide. are like free space experiments. AG Interesting. interesting. So Anton had a student from China he's made a lot of progress there. And together, which is completely purposed to study quantum and so on. So this was, they launched it in across thousands of kilometers. So that's very quantum mechanics applies to very small scales. course, photons are, you know, they're not massive I think this starts showing that this division where it's different, maybe in some senses, as we what's very interesting is like, as I mentioned relativity kicks in. Again, the proper time of clocks that you set that are in a satellite. gravitational redshift. So this is like a special is something that I've been very interested in. field theory in curved space-time to describe the Schwarzschild metric, which can be applied to the quantum states that travel from Earth to a satellites. As using quantum field theory in and then construct wave packets and study how the, to a satellite, how would this be modified due to So this is no longer just special relativity using using. We showed that if you use quantum field go beyond that and really see how the curvature some of these papers and we said, this is what quantum teleportation or quantum cryptography. fact that these states are modified to actually using quantum metrology. LWR Okay, cool. HL. So series of papers in that direction, more or less, see, these are experiments that already are working in Germany that once the whole group came were not understanding, and they, using just see if there was more to be understood from our see that some interplay between quantum states reach those scales, but there's very little apart things, or the experiments actually, they take still have to test these sorts of things. Now, been demonstrated in the experiment. Quantum field CERN and Fermilab and all of these experiments it still needs to be demonstrated. So some giving you some hints that quantum field theory in for these scales. It would be very nice to check how does this work logistically? Do you have to have to ask the people who are in charge of the work? Well, I actually belong to a group that was with the theoreticians, with the experimentalists, be things that would be interesting to well, we would like to test this theory. who came up with a new theory that used quantum that and took into account closed timelike curves. group found this interesting from a theoretical that the experimentalists found it feasible to and the experiment didn't find evidence of this of thing, that's great, that's the sort of thing come up with new ideas, again the circle, cast of theoretical physics, which is mathematics, and they say, well, yes or no, and then you go and usually also what we do is that we get and make a proposal that might or not get it's more complicated. I have actually been do you have an experiment that you think we could more things that you could also test on Earth. And I did point out to these papers, and I said, some of these. But I haven't heard like, oh yes, so now we go to the clocks question that you were like you were saying, quantum clocks are the most what we use to distribute clocks in the planet. airplanes, and all sorts of things that we need very precise ways of measuring time, and these are how would an atomic clock work is that you trapped in an electromagnetic potential. So so that means they move very little, and they're millimeter, and so on. So the energy levels, the So let's say between the ground state and the you can use this as a frequency standard that precisely. So you shine a laser, and you excite less what you use. So there was this beautiful who got the Nobel Prize for trapping irons in which he would take an atomic clock and then upwards. I'm not sure actually what he did, but So before we know, okay, we can see time dilation know that. But now he said, look at these scales already. And that time dilation is just due to to the Earth, just from the gravitational field that the space-time is curved. So that's really They have like a systematic uncertainty of they error is one part in 10 to the 18. So that would here because I forget, but the clock would lose 13 billion years. I had the number here exactly, they are. And that's what I was telling my it funny that I wanted to measure this curvature are so precise that it's not unthinkable that we at very small scales. So I was talking to Patrick National Physics Laboratory. So that is like the with the Metrology Institute, where they do all units and so on. So he's working with the quantum telling them, you know what, soon you're going that the proper time at the bottom of your sample different. And he was saying like, yeah, but we're later, exactly that happened. Two papers came out first there was like this one centimeter and then the quantum clocks, the clock in the atoms in the in the top. Yes. But okay, still, you know, people did this result come out? That must have been a 2020s? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Maybe this is actually... is one of the papers and it says published in 2020 or 2021, but it was published very recently. So it's not a problem as long as the atoms are is what we do with time dilation with GPS, is like correct for it. And then you just take that Okay. But now people want to make these clocks 18 uncertainty by entangling the atoms. Because entangled atoms, you get, you know, a precision it's 1 over n. It's called the Heisenberg limit. if you do that, then you have a problem. Then you relativity being incompatible. Why? Because what going to be different in different heights. And is like d and dt, an absolute time. So here you So which time you want to use? Okay. So again, about it at all event because we just use the time well. And it's like a, it's a patch, but forget do, it's good enough. I don't know. But from a thing to do. But you're actually losing on the because this is really a very good example where and general relativity interplay, but we don't I was telling, I recently went and visited the and I was having a little like discussion that we don't have experiments to address these that actually is getting there. So let's use That's good. The theory is that you're using with taking the proper time at the center of really what you have is that you lost your notion new thing. But that is what opens the opportunity not very good, I think, which is measuring at the but it sounds like what you're describing probing the interaction of general relativity with what I was trying to explain to them is that as explain your experiment. Now, your experiment is right? It's like in that sense, it's not wrong. describe your experiment. But you need to start about. So I start with a theory that's not very experimental results. And then I come up with a a PhD student working on this problem that I like not with atoms, but with light. I want to Please. So Einstein came up with this idea of the idea of a clock to argue things for relativity a photon bouncing back and forth. And that gave about what happens if you move this clock, and so quantum optics to quantize the idea of Einstein's series of papers in that direction. It's to say, electromagnetic field inside. So when you do as an infinite sum of different modes. So those photons are completely delocalized in your box. that. So that was also a long journey, because do this in flat space. And the only motion that the walls. And this was like the dynamical Casimir wanted to consider curved space from the Earth to curvature, the underlying curvature of the Earth interplay of quantum states with time dilation And gosh, that was really, really hard, because And what allowed me to make progress was working where I used to work, who is an expert in quantum well, we managed to come up with a new methodology sort of problems in a more general way. And then generalize this to curved space and so on. And which is basically Einstein's light clock, and the oscillations of the quantum states of this clock. But now we can move that in curved space dilation with quantum things. And we found some due to things like called the dynamical Casimir the clock, and these affect time dilation. LWR Again, I don't think you go to the but you start learning certain things. And one if you use these clocks to measure space and state of the field is a quantum field, then you things that you can actually not measure space and time very precisely, then space is not, and this constraints that you get in measuring space-time speak about Heisenberg's uncertainty, they're talking about space and time. HL. Yeah, they don't momentum and position. LWR Yes. HL. But in these states that obey minimum uncertainty in space coherent states. And then we move these in space, the energy and the time. So I didn't kind of go said that. But you start getting the role of the quantum theory, you know, playing a role in how is very interesting. LWR Cool. This work goes to all of the articles that have been mentioned in description. So people, if you're interested, started. So this first paper was in flat space, published about clocks that was published in 2023. generalize our techniques to include curved space it took us more than 15 years to be able to do in curved space time. So then we finally had some that question. And what we did is we looked at to describe the clock in the space-time of the Schwarzschild metric, and come up with a model of know, talk about the Schwarzschild radius of the clock and so on. So that was like, we then came at each slice within the clock, the proper time still build a clock by looking at the collective now maybe we can go back to the atoms and redefine oscillations and so on. But a student of mine don't really have much to say about the atomic talk about with respect to these experiments proposed many years ago that if you have a massive that by showing that there was a conflict between principle. So he said, yes, you could have a this would already be quantum gravity because of two different configurations. But these are why we don't see superposition in the classical in order to see if the predictions of Roger are outlining why is it that the superposition strong equivalence principle? Yes, so he starts that is falling. And then he says, okay, if you view, and he writes the wave function, and now a different equation. So he says, these wave because in quantum theory, states, wave functions his whole argument, I actually, I'm going to show slide. And in that paper, we write an introduction not necessarily simple. And one of the reasons Roger makes arguments that are good arguments, theory. So sometimes the arguments are talking and then he might make a Newtonian approximation of view is different from the Newtonian point of that then, because of that, he argues that these beyond that, because he gives you a formula that an energy uncertainty, and it's related to the the superposition. So you take some, maybe that is to, because I know that your followers are quite I come back a little bit here. This is the paper we did in this paper is that we calculated how we used the Bose-Einstein condensate, I'm going at least something like 10 to the 9 atoms in a is now. So well, people started to put electrons using like a double-slit experiment, I don't know, first experiment with electrons. And from there let's do it now with atoms, and you know, the system get, and the record is held by Markus where he has been able to put big molecules molecules have around 2,000 atoms. Wow. But you to the 9. Actually for molecules you need even What do you mean for gravity to act? I thought have mass, don't these have masses? Yes, but these calculation from Penrose? Yes, this is what Markus and I think they lasted milliseconds, I don't are stable for that long in the lab. So gravity those scales. I see, I see. But now the question then that explains why we don't see superpositions interesting is to see that, now that is a big is to understand what takes you from quantum world where we don't see quantum superpositions. other people are trying to address this question put more mass into the superpositions. There are and they use, for example, nanoparticles, little mirrors, rods, even membranes. There's record has been held by Markus Aspelmeyer, also of these amazing people and experiments there. I that long and be in the same environment where to bring one of these nanobeads to the quantum state. So they're already in the quantum, let's so quite a big bead. But he cannot put them locations. That has not been possible. Also, so one of my colleagues there, Hendrik Ulbricht, takes these little beads and he manages to measure I mean, at those scales where quantum starts to experiments so that maybe he sees some quantum approaching. But this is where things are at with I did with Roger is that when he started to tell people were doing, I noticed that all of these beads, and so on. And it's very difficult where you have little noise. So they haven't been because you can't cool them enough. Now, a system. I think it's my favorite system because things that we can do. And you can get up to 10 but there's been an experiment. Using hydrogen, let me tell you a little bit what a condensate quantum mechanics, you learn that if you put a there moving in the potential, but if you cool if you manage to the ground state, the atom will So you don't know what the position of the atom know, when I did that in quantum mechanics, I 10 to the 10 atoms, all cooled down. But atoms are state. So you can cool them all down to the ground condensate. So you have the biggest system that said, in the experiment, people have been able to So I was wondering if then this would be a good what we did together. We said, okay, how would also super complicated, because you would have the left with all the atoms on the right. And have not been able to create these superpositions. zero, zero, N. Yes, cool. And you know what, the Westbrook, and he's been able to do two atoms. And to 10 to the, like you can have many atoms in but not many atoms in a spatial superposition gravity acts. So this is what I now have been it's not related to, it's inspired by this work hope I can talk about it at a later time with you know, we studied things like, Roger and in a BC you could have pancakes or elongated And we studied if these would enhance the effects of losses and we studied the losses and so on. And you need at least 10 to the nine particles, maybe to actually verify that the energy uncertainty an effect. So now I'm gonna finish this part with work that I've done, where I brought together let's say, propose a new sensor. And it was quite could use a Bose-Einstein condensate. The sample cloud of atoms. And the experiment is, again, a no? Cool. And I claim that you could use the BC, are. And a BC, you might want to see it as 10 to So this is a very precise, it's a system that I made a proposal on how could you use the system crazy, because gravitational waves are detected three kilometers. So this is very bold. And I've 2017, I was really invested in that, and trying this experiment, because it really opens up a new work on the collapse of the wave function due to I want to put my time and my energy into this. And more into what he's doing. But yeah. So when you we usually do in quantum technologies is an atom you hit it with a laser, with a photon, and you two different positions, but they're free-falling. you recombine them with lasers. And they recombine different trajectories, they pick information in field. And this is what a quantum gravimeter is. detector, because although they throw maybe 10 all the atoms are independent. And each atom goes then they interfere at a point. So I put here the where they recombine. And then this is limited simple. It's just this equation that's here. squared, which means the bigger the detector, the And they're thinking because they want to go to, same. They now want to make a bigger detector in in physics, the tendency is to go very big, big my, my husband says that I'm a rebel because I always want to do something different that applies aspect that unifies us. Yeah, really? Yeah. No, yeah, yeah, exactly. So if everybody wants to make so on. But it has paid off for me in science. So in Christmas and things like that, because I was So socially, I don't want to go to the movie that it's been good, you know. So, so, well, here I gravity, because this is an experiment that is treat the local gravitational field by Newtonian said, these are already commercial. My colleague, sold called MuQuans. And there are other like you know, they built these interferometers, these like a meter big, I think, and so on. And that's because then you lose precision. So if you them to fundamental physics, to learn about the respect to gravity, so you want to make them more Bouyer did this amazing experiment in which he flew the plane as well, and let it free fall for amazing experiment underground called, oh gosh, the arms of the atom interferometer are 300 meters the tunnels and so on. And in Germany, you have a drop tower. Yeah. So they put up here. Oh, okay. interferometer, and then they let it drop to get more precise. Some other people also look at these down the atoms so that they get, so for example, trying to miniaturize the detectors. So what trying to do interferometry in using these sort atom goes through two different positions. Yeah. is. So you're going to have to make them bigger we do interferometry, not in space, but in precision is time. Uh-huh. So the sensor can be quantum states that live longer in time. So with I came up with a number of sensors, including the it to searches for dark energy, searches for these states to measure the local gravitational in the future. And I like that because I my favorite question is like, what's the nature of yeah. It's a dangerous question, huh? Yeah. doing that and you find some interesting things, patented and commercialized and so on? And yeah, this. And I'm still working on it. I have some doesn't matter. But I think I managed to give you quantum technologies and apply them to fundamental to finish by saying that this last proposal is but let's say a more fundamental theory which is quantum field theory in curved spacetime. it cannot address the question of superpositions specific cases like the propagation of spacetime other interesting instances. This allows you to theoretical predictions that we've made is that have to test them, so precise that you might be system. And these are for high frequencies, by the LIGO works in a different frequency regime. This LIGO detects. But, you know, let's say using these I think already show you that you can, in closer to these scales where I was talking about when people were trying to detect gravitational Maryland, you can still see them, there are these so the vibrational modes of these big metallic And then he claimed that he actually had this. controversial and then eventually disproved. But can implement it by using a BEC and using the BEC, but because you can cool the BEC to half a than the Weber bars were cooled initially, then state, which you cannot do unless you go to those the sensitivities that we were talking about, space-time. And that's how we came up with that so maybe it's good to leave it here. I think let's my concluding slide was to say that I've managed working with Philippe Bouyer and Chris Westbrook, a new proposal that I have for unifying quantum very closely with Reuters. So I'm very excited, to work this close with the experiments. And yeah, You've given far more than just a flavor. I lost with actual practical consequences in the near don't recall the last time that's happened on this at the bleeding edge in their field. So thank you It's a big pleasure for me to be on your channel. Also, thank you to our partner, The Economist. of on Twitter, say on Facebook, or even on Reddit, et about this content outside of YouTube, which in Thirdly, there's a remarkably active Discord and explicate TOEs, they disagree respectfully our own TOE. Links to both are in the description. iTunes, it's on Spotify, it's on all of the audio of Everything, and you'll find it. Personally, I also read in the comments that, hey, TOE about instead you re-listen on those platforms, podcast catcher you use. And finally, if you'd more content like this, then do consider and donating with whatever you like. there's also just joining on YouTube. Again, and you that allow me to work on TOE full-time. whether it's audio or video. It's audio in the instance, this episode that you're listening to dollar helps far more than you think. Either