The internet is a very powerful tool, putting However, the internet is also a source of You can hear all sorts of explanations, stated but also utterly and totally wrong. So, in this video, I thought I'd address for why light slows down in water. Actually, that's just a catchy title. I want to tell you why light slows down in also glass, plastic, and even air. If you ever took a physics class, you learned The index of refraction is just a fancy term The index of refraction, always written as And the speed of light in a material is just the index of refraction. I put a table here to give you a sense of This slowing down is the reason that objects It's because the path that light follows It's the reason that you can get pictures And I should let you know that no physics There's a ton of interesting phenomena I index of refraction and the slowing of light, thing. So, to do that, let's look at this animation. So suppose you have a piece of glass with That means that light will travel at 2/3 the If you shoot a laser at the glass, the light light until it hits the surface of the glass. When it hits the surface of the glass, the and it will change its direction. Once the light gets to the other side of the its direction, and move again at the speed That's what happens. In addition, the light emerging from the glass well, more precisely, in a path that is parallel The path is offset a smidge to the left, but So that's what happens. It's been tested and there's no debate on So now for the real question. Why does the light slow down? And how can it speed up again when it leaves? There are two very common explanations that are completely wrong. Let me tell you them first. The first one makes kind of some sense. It's wrong, remember, but it does make sense. It's the idea that light scatters off atoms The light hits an atom and goes careening careens off at a different angle. Light always travels at the speed of light That process occurs again and again as the focus on just these two scatters to see how If we take away the atoms, we can see the There is the actual path traveled by the light the straight line path. If we straighten out the actual path, we see And, if light travels at the speed of light it will take longer that it would take if Taking longer is another way of saying effectively And this is how some people explain the effective So how do we know it's wrong? Well scattering isn't a precise process. Light can scatter in lots of directions. For instance, it could have scattered like This is a much more serious scatter, with would effectively be much slower if this happened. Furthermore, there is no way to guarantee in the original direction. In fact, if light did what is being claimed, Instead, light would come out of glass with This idea just doesn't work because it doesn't So, no good. The second wrong idea is that light is not and re-emitted by atoms. Between atoms, the light travels at the speed The amount of time the atom takes to absorb down. You can see what I mean in this example here. The speed of the photons while moving is always and emission makes the solid line take more This effectively makes light slower. Now this idea, while sensible, is also wrong. Let's see why. The problem is that when an atom has been where the photon was coming from. And when it emits a photon, it can do it in So what really would happen in the absorption/emission The photon would be absorbed and reemitted In the end, the passage of light through the well, isn't what we see. So, if neither of these ideas work, what does? First, I should say that these two ideas kind the idea that light is a particle. However, the reason that that light slows one embraces the idea of it being a wave. There are many properties of a wave, most The wave oscillates up and down, with a separation A second important property is what we call say that you can add them. And adding them is easy. You just take the height of the two waves If the two waves are lined up so the peaks wave with a higher peak. If the wave is lined up so a peak corresponds And, if one wave has a different wavelength shape. That's just how it works. It gets more interesting when one wave is one. The result is a different wave, but one that That's super important, so let's just If we add the two top waves, which have different So let's get back to light moving through Remember that light is a wave of electric It oscillates with a characteristic wavelength That wavelength depends on the color of light, and red light being about 700. The numbers don't matter as much as that fields. Now of course glass is made of atoms, which Electrons have an electrical charge and that field of light. Because it feels a force, the electrons move. But moving electric charges also set up their Said simply, the oscillating electric field second oscillating electric field. And, if you have two oscillating electric can add them together just like we saw before. The net effect is that the two waves combine fields. And that is the wave that moves through matter. And- and this is important- it moves at a This also explains something that many people Most people were willing to accept that passing But they were very puzzled about light speeding That seemed like it created energy and, well, But now I hope it does. Before light hits the glass, it travels at When it passes through the glass, the light a second wave that adds to the light. Light still moves at the speed of light in move at a different speed, and the combined atoms weren't there. Then, when light leaves the glass, there are add to light and then light speeds along at So that's it. Light effectively travels slower through material a second wave that combines with light and familiar speed of light. Ta da! Alright, so tell everyone. This is something for which you often hear But now you know and that means you're eligible Well, that was pretty awesome. I hope you remembered to like, subscribe and I always love to find out the underlying answer find wrong explanations online. But, as is often true, the way to find out because, well- as I'm sure you'll agree-