(Rattern) They are one of the classics of French patisserie: the macarons. Daniel Rebert and Joel Sturm know their secrets. The meringue has had a real triumph. But how are the thalers with the delicious filling made? (Birds chirping) Wissembourg in Alsace. The city is right on the border with the Palatinate. Master confectioner Daniel Rebert has been running his business here for more than 40 years . I have different types now. The ones that go the most are the ones with chocolate, the ones with... cassis. Emmanuelle. (Machine whine) The biggest ingredient is almonds. Now we have almonds here. But of course...almond powder. And this almond powder has to be nice and fine, a certain... How do you say it? Humidity. Not too wet, not too dry. Is very important for great macarons. But the most important thing is that it is beautiful and fine. The macarons in France are all made with peeled almonds. Whole almonds are used for some biscuits. But for macarons, it has to be peeled. Because the skin of the almond brings nothing to the aroma. (They speak French.) We'll pour the water into the sugar now. This is cooked to 121 degrees. That's quite a mass that we do here, at work, every noon. I have two teams - morning and noon. The lunchtime ones mainly do the macarons. Daniel Rebert is one of the best pastry chefs in France. The macarons are not only sold in the shop in Wissembourg, they are also shipped. Joel Sturm is also a master confectioner and head of production. Macarons are his specialty. It's a candy thermometer. The thermometer goes up to 200 degrees. And it is important that you cook the sugar for the macarons up to 121 degrees. So, protein is now added to the icing sugar and almond mass. And dye is already in there, red dye. For raspberry macarons. This is the coloring you added to the almond flour earlier. That's the red color, food coloring, red. They do that from scale insects. And that's, uh... It's used in other food coloring too. And from this powder we only need 20 grams for this mass that you see. Only 20 grams. Very little. But this is a beautiful color, very mild color. And natural color. Almond flour, powdered sugar, egg white and coloring are now stirred. The dye is tasteless, it only serves to make the macarons look nicer. The sugar water is not hot enough yet. But the dye has had its effect. If you have them all in white, it doesn't look as pretty. The colors speak to the ... the eyes and it's nice ... But you have to be very careful. Always food coloring and always high quality. Then there is no danger at all. In the agitator next door, egg whites are whipped until fluffy. The sugar water has now reached its 121 degrees. Macarons are not considered to be easy to make. They demand precision in terms of ingredient quantities and temperatures. Joel Sturm adds the sugar to the egg white. Macarons are from Paris. Great pastry chefs...I won't say names. The great pastry chefs in Paris have been making macarons for years. And in particular a great pastry chef - I know him personally, a friend of mine brought these macarons back to life ten, 20 years ago. With different flavors. And it's not the most important product for us today , but we do have a very large production of macarons. Back to the egg white. It's gotten stiff. The sugar has ensured that it is still creamy. It is very important to make sure that there is no egg yolk left in the egg white. The smallest traces are enough and it doesn't get stiff. I now have about half of the protein in the almond-sugar mixture. Now that's going to be mixed up, then it all comes back in here. Then it's mixed again - and finally again by hand. The manual work must be! Because the mass is very solid, and when it all goes in here, there might be lumps in there at the end. The patisserie in Wissembourg has become more and more popular over the years. It is ranked among the 50 best in France. And the reputation pays off. Joel Sturm and Daniel Rebert produce many more macarons today than they used to. We sometimes make 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 8,000 macarons a week. You have to step on the gas. Alright... You'll see later. The triumph of macarons began a good 20 years ago. Parisian confectioners changed traditional pastries with new ideas . They used less sugar and created new flavors. Previously, the macaron was considered banal and sweet: two cookies glued together with a cream. The meringue was also further developed in the patisserie in Wissembourg . (Beeps) The macaron in its current form is not that old. This is early... last century. Started like this... 20s, 30s, 40s. That's how it happened after the war. There are different types of macarons. But this macaron comes from Paris and has become very ... trendy, but worldwide. The mass of almond flour, sugar and egg white is now fully stirred. The Alsatian grew up in his parents' bakery. They got him an internship with the famous pastry chef Gaston Lenotre in Paris. From there he took many new ideas with him. Also about the preparation of macarons. And then I used to work a lot at Lenotre, in Paris, in the 70s and 80s. Then I learned that from him. Already started at Lenotre. But now with the others - Pierre Herme and all of them - they bring a new wind and already... almost 20 years there, that's fine... top product. It's a luxury product too. Macarons in Paris is something ... today it is part of French gastronomy. Is great. The mass for the shells of the macarons is now portioned. They don't do it by hand like they used to. Now this mass comes into the machine. In this dressing machine. That's when you make big batches. I'll show you how we do it right here. For large quantities, we all work with skin-passing machines. You have regularity in the product and it goes much faster. In the bakery, dressing means that dough, creams or mixtures are brought into a specific shape. The skin-passing machine injects the shells of the macarons onto baking trays and portions them into units of the same size. Joel Sturm ensures that the baking paper sticks to the trays. (Quiet rattling) Afterwards, the macarons are placed on a shaker so that the diameter increases and the shells become flatter. It has to shake because... you know... if you don't shake, when the mass is firm, the macaron may rise. The confectioner doesn't need tall macaron shells. Macarons themselves are very sweet. It's just sugar, egg whites and almonds. And the problem is, if that's too high, then that's going to be too sweet. The filling has a lot of sugar and gives flavor, aroma. The pod brings no taste. Almond only. But it's a neutral taste. C'est bon, hein? - Ouais. The shells of the macarons are not flavor carriers. They just enclose the filling that will be made later. It shapes the taste of the pastry. Pure cocoa powder goes on top. (rattling) Every macaron needs two shells - there's quite a bit to do. (Loud rattling in the background) Daniel Rebert's success forces him to work quickly and efficiently. Macarons used to be portioned by hand. With the piping bag, you know? Piping bag and then ... But it's a lot ... more complex, it's a lot ... a lot more work and also makes the boys tired. The machine is simpler. Of course, it used to be with the piping bag. But nowadays everything is done that way. (He speaks French.) Joel Sturm puts the macaron shells in the oven. They are baked at 135 degrees. Then comes the filling. We put the chocolate in here to melt it. Yes, my chocolate is mild chocolate. 74 percent cocoa content. From ... Dominique Republicaine. Republic of Dominicaine. Dominican Republic. I developed that for myself with my boys here. And that's what Valrhona makes for me. For us. You can only get the chocolate here from us. In Weissenburg. At Rebert. OK? In here then. The filling of the Macarons Emmanuelle consists half of chocolate. Let's melt now. Meanwhile, the shells continue to bake. They stay in the oven for 25 minutes. Here is sugar, raspberry pulp, cream and egg yolk. It all comes in here now and is heated to 85 degrees. Raspberries and chocolate - they are the main ingredients of the filling for the Macarons Emmanuelle. The basis is always an English cream. OK? Creme anglaise in French. And that is always the basis. That is, this English cream is then heated to 85 degrees. Be careful not to go too high or you'll end up with boiled eggs. Then you have egg flavor in the cream. That doesn't go over so well. Therefore: 85 degrees, cool down, and then ... we have the mixture with the chocolate. Precision is also important when it comes to filling. Joel Sturm with the &quot;ingredient set theory&quot;: cream and raspberry puree, half of the egg yolk. And then half of the yolk of sugar. This is the ideal mix. And 85 degrees that the egg yolk then sets. Then it becomes thick. Back to chocolate. So, that's the melted chocolate. We'll use them now for the cremeux. She has to stay one night ... in this &quot;etuve&quot;, as we French say. And is now being prepared with the creme anglaise. So, now we're going to mix the Cremeux Emmanuelle. With raspberry. We'll do that three times. Joel will make the mix, and I'll make the... three times the... cremeux in then. That's the principle of a... of a mayonnaise. If you throw everything in, there's nothing. You have to slowly pour the oil into the mayonnaise. Here is the same principle. You see, in the beginning it separates a bit. And then slowly it becomes... it goes together. Chocolate and raspberry mass combine slowly. (They speak French.) This is the second mix. And when you see the... the evolution of the mix... Slowly, slowly, it's getting really shiny. So beautiful... This is very important. Afterwards, when you eat the macaron, it needs to be nice and creamy. And not like that... (tongue clicks) You know? En francais we have an emulsion. an emulsion. In German. I do not know. I think. While the macaron shells continue to bake in the oven, heavy equipment is used for the filling. And the hand blender thing is very important. That's right... (Loud mixer whirring) The creamy filling is called &quot;ganache&quot; in France - if chocolate is involved. Then this ganache goes in here. And is left to rest for 24 hours at ten, twelve degrees. And tomorrow it will be filled into the macarons. The ganache stays in the fridge. (Beep) Meanwhile, the bowls are ready. There is a reason why they spun in the oven like they were on a merry-go-round . So that the heat regularly bakes the whole thing. Because when it's standing, it only blows from one side and they go crooked. The macaron shells have risen in the oven. The next day, Daniel Rebert continues to work on the filling. This chocolate, the ganache that we made yesterday, has now... crystallized, one night, very slowly crystallized. And then it's nice ... nice and creamy, you see? And now we fill the macarons with this mass. Very important for me: a nice filling. That's what makes the food tender afterwards, you know? When you eat macarons, it has to be nice... C'est un cremeux framboise. Cremeux framboise. You always try to go in that direction somehow. You know? Then the... the... So the macaron is done, see? What's also important: You can't do that with macarons... Always keep them refrigerated. Always in the fridge. Never leave outside. Macarons are very delicate and dry out very quickly. And the cream too, that's raspberry, can quickly turn sour, which is a shame. Macarons don't keep very long. They should be eaten after three to four days. But you can freeze them without hesitation. The taste is preserved. But what is very important, also when baking: when you bake the macarons, that they have dried well, for an hour or even two. Otherwise the... macarons might be -... bursting, you know? And that's not... Of course, that didn't happen when making these macarons. They only become perfect if you work very precisely. Just like Joel Sturm and Daniel Rebert. Et voila. Incidentally, the pastry chocolatier also delivers to Germany. A lot at Engelhorn in Mannheim and, uh... at various customers in the Palatinate. We sell a lot of macarons there. (He speaks French.) These macarons Emmanuelle are sold in the shop in Wissembourg. Did you like this &quot;Craftsmanship!&quot; favor? Then write us your opinion about the film in the comments. And don't forget to subscribe to the channel. SWR 2022