I was on The Five. No I was on over with it. It was the first of one of the women and, Outnumbered. And I was up there. They used to bring me all the time because I was just so popular. With our viewers. It was popular. And the girls the girls on that show, they were laughing and they said, Donald Trump says he's running for president. All that and. And they laughing and they're kind of make it like it's a joke. And again, I said, what say you Willie. And I said, tell you what I think is resonate with a lot of people. And you could just see a mindset like. Like they thought I was going to laugh. And they joke. I said, Don't underestimate the power of celebrity, because I was like, I'm just native, man. When everybody knows who you are. That it's a big advantage because you think about Kamala Harris. She's a vice president for 35 years. No one knew how to say her name. Including her. And she was the vice president. When they got elected or whatever it was in 2020, I, I totally by accident, I pronounced. I called her Kamala. Yeah. Which is why I thought her name was. And the White House press secretary attacked me as racist. Which. Okay, fine. But it really was totally accidental. Right. And so this kid on our staff found a tape of her calling herself Carmela. And then Kamala and I just like who can't pronounce her own first name? Yeah, that's if you're like. I'm Willie Robertson. I'm Willie Robertson. Wow. Yeah. Kind of weird, right? Hello. I'm Wiley Roberts. No, I mean, I. Think it's fair to, like, settle on a pronunciation of your own first name. So one of the things I was. I've never done with you before. You've become famous for bird hunting. You're an excellent shot. I just want to confirm that for people while it's not fake. I've got to make my dad and brothers watch this. It's true. No, no, no, it's true. You are, but you're not. You become famous from television. You've. I mean, I just want to get right to it. You've written this book, Gospeler, which is not about hunting. It's kind of. What's it about? Hunting for people? Hunting, fishing for people, perhaps. Turning turning darkness into light. One conversation at a time. Yeah, that's okay with this book this year and this was kind of the one I wanted to write. You know, it's like before I die, I want to write this book. And it's really about my faith, the faith that was passed down, the first chapters, my mom and dad's story about how they got their faith. We put out a movie last year called The Blind, which was their journey of faith shot in the late 60s 70s. And that was a bad he was a bad guy. And in what way? He's just. Well, he calls himself a heathen. He was just a bad dude, you know, just into everything he shouldn't have been into. He's married. He's got this young family. He's drunk all the time. He loses his job, he's ends up running a bar and all. Hope literally was over. He had kicked us out of the home. It's bad. Dad is a bad husband. Really kicked you out of the home. He kicked mom and us out of the house. Or how the trailer really is. Yeah. And yeah, and so. And the one person who didn't give up on him was my Aunt Jan, his younger sister. And she. She'd go up to this bar he was running that has like a master's degree, was a kid have went professional quarterback. He played ahead of Bradshaw and in college at Louisiana Tech gifted athlete had everything you know ahead of him and just pretty much throws it all away. And so my my my aunt would go up there and pass out a little Bible track. She was a very charismatic Christian. And and he hated it. You know, he was like, stay out of here. And and she begged this preacher to go preach the gospel to her brother. And and I write in the book, I can just imagine this conversation like because because the preachers in Louisiana, the bar is in Arkansas. And and I'm sure was like, can you share the gospel with my brother? He's wayward and and he probably was like. Yeah, tell him to come to church. We'll meet after he's not coming to church and you have to go see him. What does he do? He runs a bar in Arkansas. Yeah. Which one. In town? It's not even in his name in the state, you know. And this guy gets in. His car and drives to a bar, walks in. Where is the bar. With his bottle? Because in Junction City, Arkansas. And it was rough, you know, as a writer. Yeah, that goes back. It goes That said. And it was adversarial like. The guy goes in feel does not want to hear. He does not he's not even invited in there. And and I knew the preacher up until he passed away and and he and he he says. This is your dad, your dad sitting there. He said he's got a pistol. In his belt and a giant Budweiser and he's about half letting the dad looks and says, What you selling, preacher man? And the guy sits down. And nothing happens. Phil doesn't there's no there's no conversion. There's no just as I am bar baptism, the oldest that I keep that man. And so he leaves. And then in Phil's life even goes more in the tank. He ends up the state police showed up to arrest him. He goes and lives in the woods for six months. I think like he was that guy. What were they arresting him for? He had put two people in. I see you beat him up over a bar dispute. He just takes off. Lives in the woods. So this moment an out there is when he he he got really sick and nobody you know, everybody was trying to figure out where he was. And but he was getting a. Wife and kids at this point. Well, then they let mom and dad move and they moved to Louisiana and was pretty much like, I hope he doesn't die, you know, but it's over. You know, he's already kicked us out. And and then he comes dragging back up into that town and he pulls up to where my mom was working. She has a new job and trying to move on with her life. And. And she's like, call the police. Like, no, he's, you know. He's deer living in the woods. They pose up and he's crying. And he said, Where's that preacher? And they talked to him. And that's when Phil became a believer right there. So that's the first chapter in the book. So how long did it take your mom to take him back into. She took him right back. It was amazing. You know, I always said if it weren't for dad changing his life, but also for one, for mom forgiving him. And yeah, it's easier to change your life and give someone his fans. Basically when you're just saying, Yeah. And who now, you know, was there. I'm sure there wasn't the counseling that we had. You know, they just. Yeah. No. And she but she needed help. I mean, she's got three young boys and I've done three and I was the youngest at the time. So in the movie I'm portrayed, I was very particular who played me in the movie at two years old. Now, you got to get that part right. Yeah. That's got to be a handsome toddler. Was I was. My grandson played me. My grandson played me about his great grandfather. That was awesome. As far as fun to watch that movie. And it's a hard movie to watch. And Dad didn't even want to do it. It was tough for him to go back, you know, and relive that, you know, just pull all those. But we said dad and mom to both. We just said, I think this can help a lot of people. You know, a lot of people were in similar situations. And so, yeah, they stayed together. And so the first chapter of the book is that and and so if you think about like there's like 50 years ago that happened. If that doesn't happen, this family does not stay together. If the family doesn't stay together, there's no commander, there's no doubt, Commander, there's no Duck Dynasty. There's no podcast. I, I don't know where I would be. My whole life would look completely different. And so part of the reason for us being still so excited about our faith is because we feel like we owe everything we have to our fate. Had it not been for faith, it would have been over. You know, marriage is over. Yeah, who knows? So, I mean, do you remember a time before your father was downtrodden? Do your brothers? They do. They do. I don't really. Everything I remember was was great. And and he went from, you know, darkness to light. I mean, he literally it's kind of like saw in Paul in the Bible. Yeah. It was like this old person. And then they just turned and we just went, I mean, just for Blaze. And he just wanted to share the gospel with everybody he knew, you know, because I guess he had lived and he said, I live so bad and I got to go help these people. And so he became known, became a known gospel or of just known for preaching the gospel to everybody. A gospel or as someone who preaches the gospel. It is it's. A it's a real word. It's not. It's an old word. Do you ever heard of. No, never. I've never been. So I'm writing this book. It's 2020. You know, when I was like, I want to write this book. And so it was about sharing your faith and my wife, who's way smarter than I am, she comes in because I couldn't figure out what to call it. And she goes, Well, I found this word. It's called Gospel Hour. And it used to be very commonplace. And it was not necessarily pastoral. It was just like common folk who were just known for sharing the gospel. And it simply means somebody who shares the gospel with people either publicly or personally. And it didn't fall short of me that the word is literally a dinosaur. No one's ever heard of it. Right. But at one point in America, in Europe, this was a common word. And they were they were called known spellers. I found a law, I want to say it was up and it was up in the Northeast where it's like nobody can stop a priest or a known god speller from preaching on the town square. It was actually in a law like that word wasn't a law. Let me see. Yeah. So she found the word. And so how did you grow up? Like you grew up in a world where Christianity was at the center of everything? Yeah, for sure. Number one. Number one. No doubt about it. So it wasn't like, we should try to go to church. It was. It was, you know. And we had so many Bible studies that it just really went all week, like because what happened, we would once you're kind of known for that. So people would bring people down to the house for Phil to talk to. And there was the most. Wayward people just like murderers. And the craziest people ever that would just and that would just get it, that no matter who they were, he would just sit there on the couch and he'd feed them supper and then he would jump into the bar and just I mean, it was Fridays, Tuesdays, Really. All of them? Yeah, all the time. And then Dad started teaching Bible classes, so he would teach his Bible class on Sunday mornings, and then he would take. But he would just study like crazy, like this crazy person. And this is, you know, and my father's never owned a computer. He's never owned a cell phone. He's never a cell phone. How do you text him? You know. Just like saying. You go find him. So I call and I'm like, there's there's. There's a dude. There's a deer down there near. So you call him, but you got to go find him. And he's like in the woods, you know, And you, you've got to if you want to track him down, you got to go find him. Does he. Still hunt? Yeah. But it was But yeah, the dad would just read and study and, you know, he would just just thirsting for knowledge. He'd love the knowledge. But then he loved trying to to share that. And that's kind of the point of the book, is this turning darkness into light one conversation at a time. And that that the tagline comes from It's it's funny how my business mixed with my faith. So we have some new products for deer and it's this this feature reading you click a button so right at that time where it's real dark, you know, it's getting a little damn still legal shooting hours and it just boom, it just goes turns it into it's daylight. It's crazy. How What is it? It's pulling light. Whatever ambient light is, is falling down. Right. It's amazing. So we had this new product. So I'm looking at all the marketing material. And they had on their. Turn, turn dark into light. And when I saw that our that's the tagline for my book, Turning Darkness into Light one conversation time. So through a conversation, maybe had the guy not gone and shared with that, you know, he was the one that actually planted the seed or shared with that and and boom, that's where it started. Just that conversation. And then I watched, you know, hundreds and hundreds of other people. Just the conversation lead to a life change. And so and so what I want to do is go through the book and go through kind of how to do that, because a lot of people, they're so intimate, they don't know what to say and they like the idea of it. And they're like, Well, I hope somebody tells somebody about their faith or about Jesus, but it ain't me, and I don't know how to do that. I don't it's like, I don't know where to start. I don't know the Bible. And so we kind of disqualify ourselves from a lot of those for a lot of those reasons. And so I just tried to go through and tell stories and I pull stories from the New Testament. Just conversations like especially conversations like especially in the Book of Acts like that's where you're really seeing kind of the church meet with the world and just pull the conversations like this, what they said then this is how you could share with others. So your family, despite living in a very rural area, you've got a duck call business and you're serious, a Christian, you want to be in television. Yeah. Which is like the opposite of all of that. Yeah. So how do you have the. So the crew comes in from wherever you're meeting with the studio executives from wherever, but not from West Monroe, Louisiana. Yeah. How do you begin a conversation about your faith or something like that? Well, it was obvious. I mean, I think the faith just comes through in every was going to be hard to separate that separate the faith. And so but I understood television enough to know that, you know, it can't just be a sermon. You know, it's got to, you know. Right. And we we weren't saying the people. Who run television, I have noticed from spending a lifetime, they're not super receptive to the message. They weren't. As you know, a lot of people ask me that like we ended every show with a prayer. And and I get that almost get this like weekly is like, I bet they didn't want that prayer. But that wasn't the case. They they let us. Go, you know, like, good for them. Yeah. It wasn't a wasn't a battle. It was just a good way to end the show. They knew faith was important to us. And and that's how they well, that's how we ended every show was with that prayer. But there wasn't a lot of resistance at all from that. So you're like, I know. I think people they thought that was the case. I wanted to know I love this song. And it really. Was. And it was like and then once it works and once it's. Right, the commercials. What's the biggest show, as you know, ever in reality TV? There's like, I love that brand. Yeah, that was all out there. Now I. Know it. You know it it worked. And so once we talked about how to do it and my father was he was so funny with the show. So when I went down to tell him, I said, Dad, you know, I got this idea doing this television show, and he hated it. So I don't want to do it, you know? And I said. Well, the idea come. From us. It's a way to get the gospel out to more people. And literally that's what I told him. And he says in sharing it, we never thought about that, you guys, you think it can? I said, I don't see why not. He gives a thumbs up and he's like, All right, what did the TV show? Living with the Gospel, have more people? So you do a show like that, what are the mechanics of it? Because it seems like it would take over your life completely. It does. So like, how does it work? It's a lot of what we didn't know when we started. Like, we had no idea. I get a I get an email, This is so we had done another television show on the outdoor channel and, and the same way like now it was my wife's idea. Corey said Corey watched reality television. Is she from Western Road? She's from West Roswell. She's from the city. I'm from the States. So she says she's watching all this reality television. And she said, Well, yeah, I think I think your family needs to have a reality TV show. And I'm like. That's not a compliment. Well. When your wife says your family needs a reality TV show that. As I said, surely has an attack. That's why I didn't realize it. And I said, Corey, we're just normal people. And she goes, well, I know why. And so she was like, You guys are like. She goes, I've been with you for a long time. And where'd you meet her brother? Way summer camp, Fifth grade. Why can't she? Can't she okay? Yeah. Her. Yeah. Sorry. Sitting on the swing. So her grandfather and father were business. Very successful business guys. And part of their charity work they had built this summer camp. And so now that we're new believers, my parents are. That was a new thing. Like, now we're going to church, Summer camp, you know? And we've never been to church. So that was like. And we couldn't even afford it. So when we would pull up to the camp, my mother had no money and she would be. And so we would have our bags packed like we're ready and shoes. Here's the Y'all stay here. Let me go see if I can trade. Working in the kitchen for you guys to come. If they say yes, you're in. If they say no, we're going to back the house and we're just like, please say yes. What's funny is it was it was my wife's parents who were making the dessert. My as it turns out in life, I later married their daughter who ran the camp. There was the same camp I was hoping to get into. That's amazing. So every time they said yes and so they would. And so we would go and I see this girl, she's on the swings. I can see her to this day. And she's got this big giant, you know, 1980s. And I was that girl. And I said, ask or Yeah. Or, you know, her dad and them, they're the ones who run the camp. And so I went over and talked to her. I invited on the moonlight hike and she said yes. And we went on the hike in fifth grade. Then we didn't keep dating. We didn't. We didn't get married that year, but we. Waited for you and you got married. 1918. You were 19. She was 18. Correct. I proposed to her when she was 17 and I was 18. What her dad say? He didn't like it. I bet he didn't. He didn't like. He didn't like the idea. He was in love. They were very. Well, they were. Yeah. They lived in the neighborhoods. And I pulled up in this neighborhood back, and I'm, like, looking around. Like, mow grass. You know. How they moved their grass. And sprinkler systems? And I'm just like, man, this is crazy. I look around and there's not one visible burned power anywhere. And I'm going like, What are these people doing? They're garbage. I didn't know there was another black he So we don't have the tile, right? So he's like, we got and I know then like we went to church, you. Guys, I knew your family and but he just was like, No, I need a way and you're too young and. And we're just dead. Say, Well, I know get married. So yeah. So we have a meeting. And he said. He's a smart business guy and he's got all these papers, he's got statistics and were some files, you know, and I'm just sit there. You know, white t shirt like blow me away and he's making me so mad, you know, because I'm like, giving him. I'm, I'm page and vision, man, you know. What was your vision? Well, Christianity like we're brothers. Like, come on, man is going to be great. And he's like, You haven't thought about all these things in life. And finally he just goes, He's getting so mad. And he's like, I think he's going to hit me. Yeah. He's like. Leaning up on me. He said, Where exactly do you plan on living with my daughter? You know. And I'm right. I mean, I said, Well, I reckon I'll pull a trailer up. On the back of. Phil's house and was live there for free. That was your. Vision, not me. About the answer. The date on the ticket and we'll burn garbage in the yard like normal people are. 32 years later we're still. Facing. That. We're great. We I mean I. So her parents house and my house, literally it's like a piano. You don't play golf. It's a pigeon wedge away from me. And we were just right beside each other now. Yeah, I see him every day. Yeah. And I learned most of what I learned in business. I learned from. Him. How many grandkids did he give? Eight. Eight so far. You have? I have it. So he has. How many great. Great, great grandchildren. How many kids did you have for this daughter? How many kids? How many kids? Six. So he's got to be pretty. Just the way you ask. Sorry I asked you backwards. Start again. I have six children. And eight grandchildren, so. Yeah, I mean, but yeah, they're great. And so we lay there on the. And we all live right there. We're just all connected and live beside each other. How long did. It take you to win a Yes from your father in law? I mean, it was after that night. He wanted me to come over to their house. And so Corey was she was in college, so she wasn't even there when all this happened. She was in college. I wasn't going to college. I was going to seminary. I was going to be a preacher. And and so Corey calls and says, they want you to come over. And I said, he's going to come pick you up and take you over their house. I said, Now? She said, Why not? And I said, I'll have to walk home. She was already massive. This is going to go bad. And then I'll have a ride. I want to walk all the way back to Miles with, like. Seven miles. I said, No, I'm not. Then we come over here. So he comes over to where I was staying, and I was living with my brother at the time. And it was he and his mom and me. We're on the couch together. And my mother, like, she was in between us. But I did. I thought, man, I think he may punch me. And I was ready. I may have three brothers. And so I was like, We just got to fly. Let's just fly. I go, let's go, you know? But then it was after that. Night, they said, okay. And then I think just six months later, we got married and we were driving to the wedding. And he said, You know what? I said What I said. And that's the way I felt. But now we're good. And and I literally never heard another word about it. Like, really? Yeah, it was great. So is your wife who came up the idea for Duck Dynasty? Yep. Then I had to go tell Phil, and then because originally it was on the Outdoor channel. Yeah, it was. And I was approached by. But now shotguns that shot show they've been shot. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I was approached by them right after she said that and they were like, Hey, are you guys interested in doing a, like a reality TV show with the shotguns? And I was like, Corey just said, we should do a reality TV show. And he goes, Well, let's let's let's have a meeting. And so so we sat down and they said, hey, we'll we'll pay for production. You guys will be on the show. Thankfully, they had two guys that came in that they just hired who were who they came out of reality television. So it hired them from like their in-house, you know, all their commercials and stuff that they do. And we love Benalla. I mean, we love the shotgun. So I was like, Yeah. And so we're going to the deals and so right, the end courses, she's, she's such a smart business person and I'm excited. I'm like, Hey, this is our business going to go up. So I've got a film. I feel like, it's a terrible down on my that we'll sell more.com. Like we'll be on the outdoor channel like let's. Free shotguns. Plus free shotguns. I was like, plus free other stores like this is the smoking deal you know And so Corey says So we're going to go up to Marilyn. I think that's where they Marilyn and we had this meeting because she'd been reading these books and she's got as well, I think I think I think they should pay off. A talent for. I'd never heard that. Or I said, What is talent this year? Like they should pay out to be on the show as a career quicker. Don't get greedy. Like, this is a gift. They're paying for production and shotguns. Yeah. And she's like. Well, it won't hurt to ask. And I said, What? Okay. But I say, here's the deal. When you ask if you get any weird sense, abort the mission. Get out of the. Do not screw this. I was like this. I was like, This is our big chance. You're going to ruin it by asking for time out. So we go in the meeting, guys go. And they said, okay, we'll start production here and we'll do this and that and it goes. I think we're about ready to go. And of course, I have one more thing, you know, and I'm like, How can I go like this? And she's like. We're thinking you should pay. The guys a talent fee. And he was like, but what were you thinking? And she said, We were thinking $30,000 a piece. That's me for the whole season. And I'm making $28,000 a year. That's my salary. What were. You doing? That was my job. I made 28,000. But what was your job? At the. At the. That was my whole yearly job. I made 28,000. She just asked for 30. To do this thing, which would essentially double my pay. And when she said 30, I'm like, my gosh, like, that's way too much. And the guy literally just goes, Yeah, okay, no problem. And I'm like. Crap was just that 5050. I said, She said that. And so then and here's what kind of CEO I am. So we were excited. So we go back to the house. I go back down to Dad's house. Jason's there, we're all in the house and they're waiting to hear. What happened with the Davids. And I walk in, I'm like, Well, boys, we're fixing to do us a television show on the outdoor channel. And guess what else? I got us $30,000. I like it with my dad, and I just like we were like, we did it. We it's over. We finally figure it out. We got a pretty shotgun. We doubled our back. We have to do a TV show. We have no idea what we're doing. And we launched into that show. What year was that? This would have been probably eight. Yeah, somewhere. Okay, So listen to the show. We're able to cut our teeth. So we've been making DVDs and hunting videos. Now we go on this TV with these these boys from reality TV. We're there, so we really learn how to do television, you know, how to do, you know, what was going to become ultimately Duck Dynasty. It was a it was a different show. I have it was just like hardcore guns, you know, and and all that. They were showing their products. And but the other half was just like silly reality stuff that we just came up and I kind of focused on that, my brother and dad. And then they did the hardcore hunting and I was over there doing the, Hey, we could show this, and we had this wild, crazy stuff we were doing. And and the show was super popular like in that world, and everybody loved it. And we won the awards and our sales went up. More people ran the calls and our T-shirts. So it was like, Hey, we did it, man, and I had to sell them. Part of the. Deal was. I had to sell half the advertisers. So because then that that when you get your commercial, then you have to go sell them. So but now I have and I sold half of them and it was so funny like it was hard selling. But Ultra is going to be as it was, you know, it's hard selling an ad for this thing. I end up settlement. I would sell my ads and that was part of the deal I had to do. So then we get an email, I get a generic email. Information at that, commander. And there's no telling how many. They just never gave and get looked at. Of course it's a duty said, I'm a producer in Los Angeles. I've watched the show on Outdoor Channel. He saw that show. I think you guys have a really big show. Give me a call. Left his number. Secretary comes in and says, I got this email. Somebody said, They're from Los Angeles. And she said, Do you want me to throw it away. Or do you want me to respond? And I looked and I said, our response, our response to this is, well, what what do you think? And, you know, and I get in the car with them and man, he's a fast talker. You know, he's L.A. He's like, there's William. Tell you, this will be the biggest for me. I'll tell you, I've got something this big. Yeah, Yeah. And like, like you have a really big show. Like you got a we got to take this thing bigger. You know this because this is on cable. This is all. And I'm thinking, this guy's full of crap. I'm like I said, Do you think so? And he's like, he said, Well, you will not be able to walk down the street without people, everybody recognizing who you are. And I've got like, I've laid it on thick enough. And so I said, So what do we need to do if we were to do that? He said, We'll make a says around the force. And we had we had just done like three seasons of the show, so we took three minutes and then he started pitching around the networks and there was a lot of interest. You got to remember, this is the time. Louisiana, The tax credits were big, like before Georgia had Louisiana was kind of a hotbed and there was tons of shows. I mean, our state is like, there's so much culture and just fun people in our state anyway. And so you had Billy the Exterminator, Swamp Swamp People, Sons of Guns. All these are Louisiana show by billionaires. There's tons of shows been shot there. So if you had anything in Louisiana because they knew they could go save 40%, you know, in this state. And he saw it and we were on the outdoor channel. He saw it. And then I know where it comes, A&amp;E, A&amp;E. I didn't really know anything about it and I didn't watch even know what it was. And he said, A&amp;E is interested in two pilots. And I'm like, What does that mean? Well, he says, Well, if they pick it up, that's where we want to be. It's a good mixed audience, like men and Women watch and a big company. And I just, you know, combined with History Channel, ABC, Disney, all this and ESPN. And so he said the problem is if they pass on his dad like that because then they're about to say, they passed. Yeah. And so we shot two pilots for and they had no idea what we were doing. And then the film crew got Giant, you know, they sent down this huge crew and, and we had no idea. And we just kind of went into an I really know what we were doing. And so what's it and didn't know if it was good or and I didn't know you know and and so what was interesting was they didn't know. They didn't know what exactly they were getting. So if you if you kind of looked at a picture of us, you'd be like, I think they thought we like granted in right. You know, And yeah, I couldn't speak English so they didn't I think they didn't they thought I was going to be like, danger, like alligators are coming out of the water, you know, So they come down. And so, hey, because we shot. The buyers, we sent it off. And so they come were like, well, we have good news and bad news. The the bad news is this is not the show we were ordering like at all. We were all shocked. And we're like, they said, The good news is. It's way. Better than what we thought we were getting. And they were like, This is a family show because nobody has put us in any category of families. So even though we were family, but it was like they just didn't I think they thought kind of like, we're going to laugh at these, but, you know, these are helped. And they just told me. It was a Honey Boo boo. Thing. They said. Right. They didn't realize. Right that because some of their ideas initially. Some of it was like the womenfolk are out, you know, getting the possums in and skinning them out of my wife's like, these women. Do not we don't even. Know what she. Said. So but they saw and then there was this comedy, this real, because the first show we did, an outdoor channel, wasn't really funny. And once we saw this kind of comedic thing come out, that's what I mean. That was what really I think set it apart was it's funny. It's a funny, you know, something? You can laugh. You know, it's a funny show. What's it I mean, what's the process of filming it? Well. You said your house got descended on by a swarm of producers. It was. Yeah. So we we shot in our houses, especially man expression. My mouse was kind of them because the show was kind of we didn't know any of this going in because we didn't know what we were doing, but it was kind of shot through Mars. And so you would have like, Will is dad will his wife. So you're watching that as a viewer. You're watching it through my eyes. So this is supposed to be the normal guy. I'm the normal person and then everybody else is is crazy. You know, this chaos is happening. And to some extent, they are crazy. And so we had some people there just kind of like themselves, like like my father just in that never understood what exactly we were doing like in the never understood the show. He never liked it. He never understood. He he told me early on, he was like, well, tell him we need more preaching on this show. And I said, Dad, there's. Another Robertson family With a show like that. It's the 700. Or not that show. Like, this is. This is not that. Are you related to them? But he was like. I'm not. No, I'm not. Not that they haven't asked me for money, so I guess I'm not. Everybody related to me is asking. For money. Like an NBA player. So yeah, he never quite understood the show. To my dad got is once my dad got so mad one time he. Said anyway we say they just. Didn't understand. He thought it was so goofy and we were just being stupid. And so he said, This is my favorite thing that ever happened. Dog Nasty that never got so. So we had this dinner scene every time, you know. Yeah. And so we're on like episode 80, you know. And you know, the. Prior TV, you know, you got these kids, they come in from L.A., the 25 years old, and they're telling you what. To do. I go, You don't look right now. Yeah. It's just it's. Kind of weird when you become a CEO of your company and do all this now that you're, you know, you're listening to people you don't know and they're telling me what to do. And so I think my dad had gotten past the point of that at this point. I guess, pretty quickly. So we're setting all the. Table up and we're just sitting there. You know, we've done this a thousand, you know, and JB's on the table and like, okay, everybody ready? And some little young producers like, okay, Mr. Feel your pray action. So our heads. And Phil said, Father, I pray for these bunch of heathens. From Los Angeles, California with a little coffees and their filthy language. I pray you don't burn them all in hell for their sin for this. Amen. No. We were. We were laughing so hard because none of us knew that was coming. None of us realize. And so we all look. We're just like, Look, here I go. What was that? And there's. There's young for days that never missed a beat. It was like, Thank you, Mr. Phil. Now, can we do another prayer that we could actually put on television. That never aired. Never had, never aired? It was so funny. So yeah, that didn't quite understand. What I mean. These cameras are in your house for what they. Are, but, you know, the, you know, Well, it was like walking into here. Yeah. We're. We're filming in here. Yeah, that's a good point. Obviously, you know, and we're in a. Pheasant camp in South Dakota. So my. Yeah, we are. And if it doesn't count I was a little worried, too, about that. I thought we did a bad idea, so we stayed up too late last night. That's true. We were telling. So it was so fun. True. And it was. I'm glad we did. So we get up this morning, we got to shoot tons of birds, walks around and then we go. I think I had 2 pounds of meatloaf at least. Yeah, I At least I did. Okay. You did as well. You know, I didn't look at your. Plate a lot, and I thought, that's not a good recipe for. That too long. But yes, it's like not. In for the afternoon after. Hunting in a big way. And that was. The last part of my demands, though, because I've heard recently about people on their podcast and demands and the. Contract writers. Yeah. And I said, I demand we have to fly to another state, shoot birds that morning. Yes, there should be every there should be every podcast. And it was literally in the contract that you signed with us when you demanded 11 squares after. And I thought, that's a bit that's a little much. Yeah. I said, Does this go we have to go. Find somewhere to actually, this was your idea. And so thank you. My idea. I was going to go to Maine. Yeah, but we don't have any pheasants in Maine now. This was a better. There was no way. I mean, this was a way better idea. If you could. I don't know how many birds he shot this morning, but if you could shoot two grouse a day in Maine, you're the best grouse hunter in Maine. Really? You're a good shot, too. All right. I'm telling you. I would hope so. I'm telling you, audience, you're a good shot. I'm not happy. I wasn't. Surprised. I mean, I know you had a lot. I'm not half as good as I should be after all the practice have had, I'll tell you that. But now it's actually, I missed a bird. Bird got too aggressive with me and intimidated me. And I always think, you know, when you're bird hunting, you're the pursuer, you're the aggressor, you're the predator. And the bird turns it around and tries to fly up your nose. I just I freeze and miss the bird every time. And you had to go, you know, it's unnatural. I was here a month ago doing this pheasant hunting. I didn't grow up pheasant hunting, so we were poor. So I have a pheasant. Come. He literally is coming out my face. Yeah. And I didn't know what to do. And I. I took the shower and I went back like I was going to hit it like a baseball bat. And I. And I. If I had a little more Connors, I can. The guard said you should have done it. You know, it was that close. It was that close. He had, I think he'd been hit. So he was he's coming down and he's like, he was just so close. And I there's a. Picture and he's going like this, but he just goes, so right. And then I thought, why don't I can you imagine if you just grab presents of mine? And that's what separates the. Yeah. Most to that one. The just grab that sucker out of the air. Would it be that's an Aaron Rodgers movie and I. Just blew it. And I one day I'm going to now I'm going to schedule like I was months of pheasant hunting though I can get that same scenario that happened as. I watched my father get hit right in the chest on a driven pan shoot for pheasant when I was a kid and it knocked him right down. He was turning talking to someone in the pheasants, came and hit them. Right. And just family's big man. Did you grow up alone? Yeah. You did? Yeah. Yeah. He used to be only crazy people thought they were being watched all the time. Surveilled the guy mumbling next to you on the bus. But now anyone who knows what's going on thinks that because it's true, your phones are listening to you. Tech companies tracking all your online activity in order to profit off of what ought to be private information. Governments are watching, too. It's a corrupt system. It's frightening. And the worst part is it's all legal. The government certainly will not help stop this. Of course, the Intel agencies love it. So it's up to you to protect yourself. And that's where Expressvpn comes in. Expressvpn, which we use here, is an app that sends 100% of your online activity through secure, encrypted servers. That means nobody can see what you do online. Not Internet service providers, not data brokers, not Intel agencies. Don't believe it. Listen to this. Within the last year, Expressvpn received over 400,000 data requests from tech companies and government agencies, but did not share a single piece of customer data. That's because the company has a strict zero logs policy. Express VPN cannot and will not share your data. They don't even have your data to share. Express VPN is easy to use takes one click. It's rated number one by the experts at CNet and The Verge. And right now you get an extra three months for free when you use a special link. Go to express vpn.com/tucker and get that extra months for free its express vpn.com/tucker. We have a report to report to you. We are super poor middle class. yeah. How did you get out from McDonald's to go work there? I've come a long way just bootstrapping it. So did like what was it like to go from being maybe locally famous to nationally famous? Yeah, night and day. Because it was. Man, I'm so appreciative. So we it was like we did just enough to get comfortable enough to figure out what it is that you're doing. And I loved the, you know, the progression. Yeah, I think zero two, you know, just like nothing to something. But it was just enough. Like we didn't just have TV and then we had done some, you know, stuff too, where if we went in Bass Pro shop or what, you know, it was less documented grass and but just enough. But then once we hit the really national spotlight, especially to the level our show was, it was crazy. It was just crazy. Not good for you. Now, there was a good now and many business. It's not because business went crazy and it trying to do everything. You know, you're still trying. Yeah. You have a business, you're trying to run your business. And and then here's what's really unique because the nature of the show look like we were goofing off for everybody in the well. Then I'm getting, you know, 50,000 orders. Well, we can't fill them. And then I got people emailing me. I just saw your goofing off. I just watched the show. It was like like that's really what we go build some more. So then, yeah, I had to go like, do a video on how you guys look and well, if I'm back last year, we really are working. But it's not everything you see on the TV shows. What exactly happened that day? You know, exactly that day. So it was it was crazy. It was the first holidays. We crashed our computer, I think, three times. It was so bad because they ordered their product. So we got their money and then it crashed. But we didn't know what they ordered. So we have your money. What would you do? Just try to put out a call, call us. And so I can't be like, I didn't get my order. I'm like, Why don't you tell us what you are? Well, just. Just generalize Whatever you think, you know, spitball it. You know, we'll get as close as we can. We're just trying to ship stuff as people like. Those are good problems to have. I'm. No, they're not. They're terrible. They're terrible problems to have just really overwhelmed just wasn't wasn't ready. And and to think that when we did this show or had this meeting and my wife, of course, says, do you think we should order more duck calls? And I said, No, no, nobody's going to order a duck. You know, even if you like the show, why would you need a duck? Call me if you're if you're not a duck hunter, What do you. Was I wrong? If really people were buying decorative dolls. They were just fine. Any Scott like, they just wanted that. I mean, unless you had on a shelf. Well, it was just the they wanted a piece of the show and that was that was the piece they wanted. Duck calls that you sell. I like million and a half or something crazy duck calls. Yeah. And the year before we'd done 50,000. So 50,000 to 1.5 million. That's crazy. It's insane. It's insane. We were working 24 hours a day. I had. Cruz. I had everybody who could possibly. How much child labor? Not much child labor. So for hours and hours worked. What did your kids think of the whole thing? That's what I was. I mean, I think that's your big fear. I mean, your fear. Is, is how is it going to how does it play with them? Yeah. I always say this year in life I've been able to do a lot of things and most of the things my kids are going to do or have done, I've already done, you know, I'm in college, I have children, get married, you know, move well, I mean, the only thing I had zero experience with was being famous at a young age. Yeah, I understood it at 40 because I was 41 when the show came out. But being 16, you know, I had no idea. And also, you've got. The beginning of social media, too. So that's new as well. And so. Yeah, I think they. Probably struggle, you know, with some of it and certainly some aspects of it understood the good of it and, you know, figure out a way how to use it, you know, use what it was for for the good and then ditch the stuff that was. So they're not mad about it now. No, they're. Not. How many are married? Four. Five. How do you get your kids to get married so young? Yeah. I don't know. I didn't encourage it. You didn't? Well, that was the day I told you about Cordy's parents. You know her dad's mad. You're too young. This what made me mad? I said, how were you? 1985. Sounds like you're the same age we were. We I mean, it is. Interesting that because he couldn't say, we waited and. But now they wanted to get you know, they got around the same age and they got married as well. But it's not like I said, here's how we're doing around these parts, you know? I know. They just. Now, I don't know if I'm the right one and then make a commitment and go. It's pretty great. Yeah, it really is great. Well, it's great because in your young lung, I've got eight grandkids on a young, young grandparent. I mean, it's fine when you're you know? You're not. So how long did the show go? Five years. 130 episodes. What they ended. There were a lot of reasons, I think. When it gets more expensive, it just keeps getting more expensive. You know, everything goes up, you know, like. Your fees go up when. Everything goes up. Not just ours. Everybody, you know, production. Everybody's on high. If this keeps, you know, generating income and and so, you know, it's I'm assuming I mean I think it's like a baseball player. Like you're paying a guy $10 million at first base. He hits 25 home runs. We could pay a guy 5000. Maybe he'll hit. Maybe he hit 12 home runs. Good enough. We'll save the millions. I'm sure that you're like, we could make other shows, and some of it just played out. I mean it. Like, you just kind of run out of it. Like, what's. What are we doing? You know, it's like, Yeah, is that more kids and stuff? It's like you've done so many home 130 episodes with two storylines, 260 story as a last, you know? Yeah, we were certainly ready. I mean, we were ready for a break. It was all just a lot of work. And I mean, the first year man, we filmed. Yeah, we filmed ten months that year. Yeah, this is not some couple of month. The, you know, this is not like how. Many days a week? The first year we did six days a week and we did even some Sundays, Sunday afternoons. Just get them. And we were just. That's. It was hard. Months, six days a week. It was hard. It was hard to the lot. But we were just, you know, at that point, we're like, figure it out. And then they were just it became so popular, it must. Have gotten close. They wanted more. Everybody was like, we need more, we need more, we need more. And so I was like, keep making them. Keep making them. And so finally were like, time out, you know, renegotiate. And so part of that we went to Monday through 30 schedules, gives us day off at least a day to go the house. I mean, to go the doctor to get your stuff, you know, stuff you need to do because it's not like you worked every day, but you're on the schedule for that long. So some days you may not be, you know, may not be on that afternoon, you know, till it comes out, you know, on the schedule kind of where you're at. Did you ever feel misrepresented by the show? No, because, you know. I kind of played a part like I had a part that I played on the show and it was kind of consistent of it just kept me. It was authentic. I mean, it was like, I'm the CEO, I'm the head guy. And so I think in order to make some of it were, you know, you kind of had to have the bad guy, you know, sometimes. Yeah. And I mean, it's kind of the sort of comedy comes from, you know, it's like you think about like the stories you think about in school or in church growing up. You know, one of the funniest thing is this one, you're really in trouble, right? Of course. It's so funny. Like, you can't stop laughing. So some of that was it was kind of like that, you know, let them do stuff. And then and then I believe this is just, you know, and like, because it was stupid, but it's that's kind of, you know, so for my role in it and and then I was also the guy that narrated you through the show so I had to keep you had to keep you up on what was going on because because people get confused. They get and if you get confused and if you don't if you can't figure a show out, you're just change the channel, of course, because it makes you feel dumb. Yeah. And you're like, I shouldn't watch this, you know, because I can't figure it out. Did you watch the shows? We did. I did. I don't. I never liked watching really myself, not like watching speeches or other stuff. But we watched that one together because half of the show, I never knew what happened because it wasn't the parts I was in. Right. Meanwhile, down at the river. And so I didn't see that stuff. And it was hilarious. I've been watching it go and this is so funny because I didn't know what that was. I was watching it with everybody else in the world. And so it was so funny how I would get so taken at some of the stuff they would do. So we would watch it together. We, like my family, would all get together and the kids were younger, so it was cool for them to be able to, you know, kind of see themselves on TV. How were they treated at school because of it? Different. I mean, everybody's treated different, you know. But they were it was. Probably were. Good. Probably good and bad. You know, they didn't go to school as much as like they were out of school a lot. So we had a teacher there on set just because it was a lot of days. So they weren't they just had to do a lot of the school, say they did a ton of school from from the house just because that's what she had to do. But they were there in a Christian school and they were pretty lenient. I mean, not on the grades they were lenient on. They let them play sports and they could still participate and stuff like that, you know, even though they were kind of doing school from afar. What year did it end the show? 12 to 17 maybe. So it would have to end itself. I mean, at some point you're going to run into the political problem, right? Show like that. Yeah. When you say political problem, well, I mean. I don't know. You know, you. You live in Louisiana. You run a hunting related company and you're Christian. Now you're probably going to reach a different political conclusion, probably to be pro-Trump. I mean, just judging by all that. That is true. Yeah, that was Trump. Yeah. Most of the show was President Obama. That was yeah, he was the president. And yeah, Trump was right there. Did you address that on the show or remember that? Trump? No. No, no, we didn't. We didn't because it kind of wasn't that kind of it wasn't like really reality like that. It wasn't like you didn't see stuff from. Right. The like, I mean, we would be filming at a grocery store. We'd have to turn the magazines around because we would be on the cover. Of the My Power bill on the show. Then they like, Hey. It's two fourth wall coming. It was a little. It was a little. But yeah, Trump was now that was right when Trump. Yeah, I kind of I stick my toe in the water a little bit on that one. On the air. You did? No, just in life. Yeah. Just with Trump and. Well, yeah, I mean, it's a different world now, though, right? I mean. Well, my mom's a little naive. I just thought, well, this is cool, You know, I like. I like when I first heard about thought, that's all we need. We need a business guy. We need the guy you with these. Politicians, we need a bit. That's exactly who we need. Yeah. And and he had a reality TV show, so I was. Like, hey, he's like, so. Yeah. And so I made him a fighter. So first time I met him, I was doing I was in Oklahoma City. My son was speaking at something. Okay. I went to hear him speak. We had been al cunning, not my Osama man and buddy. We're al cunning and the dude has a plan. I said, Hey, can we stop in here? My son's giving a speech. Yeah. Cool. So when we go in there and see him, we're at lunch. And this guy said, Hey, guess who's in town? I said, Who? He said, Trump. He's done a lot of his rallies. This is back. 15. And now he's doing these right. He was at the Oklahoma State Fair, and I was like, we got to go. We got to go. This is awesome, you know? And I had just met Don Junior, who's a hunter. And that's how I certainly that's how we met each other. And we just met and talked. And so I emailed him or texted him and said, Hey, your dad's doing this rally. I was going to go check it out. And he's like, I'll set it up. And I remember I got a police officer because I was like, There's no way I can go this Oklahoma State and like, I'm going to get mobbed at this place, you know? And I may be more recognizable than Donald Trump in Oklahoma City at this in 2015. And so I show I have this cop with me. I get there's an RV in the back. So it's like a outdoor, you know, the giant crowd, you know, it's outdoor thing. There's an RV. So I get on this RV, me and my buddies and then my cop friend, and there's these other people and there's like, cater person. There's an air patrol. And this this is funny story. There's a dude on there, and he comes up to me, he's got an earpiece, but he's like, got. Beat short silence. You know. Who is this guy? I said. What do you. He said, Can I. Get a picture? I said, Yeah. I said, What do you do? Because I didn't know who worked for Trump. Trump's not there yet. Yeah. And he goes, I do all kinds of stuff, you know? He said, Do you want to see my gun? Now. I've been around. You've been around enough? Has any security person ever asked you, Do you want to see my gun? No. No, that's not a no, it's not a thing. I'm looking at this cargo. Well, so I'll take a picture. And. Corey Lewandowski is on the bus. He goes, if you will, get off the bus. And so these people start getting off the bus, right? And so here comes the whole entourage, you know, and Trump gets out first. I met him. Please, I will lay low. Well, you see the crowd here, 2000 and he goes, even for you, it's huge. Right? And there's a huge crowd for some. I like it. And so I'm kind of like my buddies are just like, this is the funniest thing ever. I look back on the escort as I look back. That dude, he said he had a gun is talking to Trump. He didn't get off the bus and he's got like his book or something. And I could see like Trump does, he just looks and that's back when he had those like giant security guards. You know, this is he wasn't the president. And, you know, he used to have like six. Foot nine guys. So try to escape this. Look, there's a look here. They kind of go, is that day with you? I said, no, he's not with me. I said, and he said. He had a gun. And when I said that, well, they grabbed this guy like by the back and just threw the visor and Trump said, these files are everywhere. And so I was like and they're all looking at I could tell me. And I looked out my say, what kind of operation you're running here I was in that really made it bad because they're not making fun of their security. But it was a true story like this. Did was he? Thankfully, I had the cop. It was a detective from Oklahoma City. So later, a week later, he calls me. He says, Willie, he said, I found out about you, about that guy. He brought the. Porta potties in to the fair and they tells the fair director. Anything else? I can help you if I do. Well, they start putting to work doing. He has an earpiece because they're tell him his whole thing was he want to get Trump signs book. He did the whole thing he goes he didn't even know you were going to be there. You were a bonus because he was excited to get the picture of me in that. Well, that's amazing. So. So I'm on the bus. So. So Trump's fixing to speak. Well, when I went to this deal, my wife, I said, look, Trump speaking. We're going to go over and check it out. She says, Willie, do not do not get on that stage. And I said, don't worry, I'm out of this. I'm not getting involved. Bobby Jindal was run. He was a friend of mine. I was like, nah, nah, nah. I ain't doing any of that stuff. And so before he gets out the vote, he goes, Willie, did you want to get up, say anything to the crowd? And I said, Nah, nah, nah. I was probably a man. I'm good. I'm you go ahead. You know, but I thought, you know, how about these politicians, you know, the half hour, he's not a politician, so maybe we'll do it. So I got to and I'm like, he gets on the stage and I thought, if he's on there, he's going to go off the bat. And so there's a stairwell. And so I'm kind of hiding in this because I don't want to I don't really want to be seen at this point. You know, I'm like. Some might be like, there's Willie Robertson might not. I look like him, you know? And I'm kind of like laying in the stairwell and I'm thinking right off the bat he's going to go like. Hey, guess who's here? You know. Nothing. Trump just goes into speech. He's China. He's he's 30 minutes deep by this time. I'm we're we're to laugh and we're like, this is the funniest thing ever. You know, I never dreamed it'd be the first day I was like this is courtesy you know and and Trump 30 minutes deep. He just stops. He looks right and goes, Where's Willie? My heart stopped out, went, my gosh. Please tell me he knows another guy named Willie. At the Oklahoma State Fair and he just starts walking out of the show. He goes, Well, how's Willie? And where is he at? Yeah, and nobody knows who he's talking to. Everybody's gone. Who's? Well, my buddy is going, Willie, you've got to go up there. And I said, I look like I'm not prepared to go up on the stage. He's like, He's calling for you on the stage. So I pop. Up on the stage. Where everybody goes crazy. Like it was like, my God. Well, I'll go with them. I went to the crowd and so I leaned and shook his hands. The good job is to try to kill him. As I was. And. And I go to pull away. He doesn't let go of my hand. He just holds it. And I'm like going the trunk trap. And I'm going, and he's how? And he goes, Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I got something. He said, Do y'all know who this is? My guys. Hey, guys. This is the biggest television star in a price gone crazy. You know, he's a Willie Robert Duck down to say, Hey, I got one question for Willie. I Yeah. And I'm like, play. And he goes, Do you love Trump? And just have. You ever feel like you can't trust the things you hear or read? Like every news source is hollow, distorted or clearly just propaganda lying to you? Well, you're not imagining it. If the last few years have proven anything, it's that legacy media exists to distort the truth and to control you, to gatekeeper information from the public instead of letting you know what's actually going on. They don't want either of them. But there is, however, a publication that fights this that is not propaganda. One that we read every month and have for many years is called in Primus. It's from Hillsdale College in Michigan, and Primus is a free speech digest that features some of the best minds in the country addressing the questions that actually matter, the ones that are not addressed in the Washington Post or on NBC News. The best part of it, it is free. No cost whatsoever, no strings attached. They just send it to Hillsdale, will send in Primus right to your house, no charge. All you got to do is ask. Go to Tucker for hillsdale.com and subscribe for free today that's Tucker for hillsdale.com. The only way this stays a democracy is if the citizenry is informed. You can't fight tyranny if you don't know what's going on in Primus helps it's free. Don't worry. Sign up. Now that's the trickiest question ever. Tucker My brain is coming so fast on my because there's a situation. We've got 10,000 people here. They're all there Is they here, They're there to see me. And he's asked me these super awkward questions. I'm like, I've already endorsed Bobby Jindal. I'm like, What am I? Yeah. As I listen to the mike and I go, Yeah, yeah, I do like me some Trump. Everybody cheers, you know? And I said it. Trump's behind me with his hands on my shoulder. He's ready to I say the wrong things to me. And then I said, Here's the deal. Me and Mr. Trump have three things in common. We both had successful television shows. We both were successful at. Business, and we both married people that look way better than we do. They come from a city of it's all welcome to the deal. And I'm still just like literally. Kind of shaking from the whole experience. And again, the stairwell, my buddies gone, my gosh, I can't believe that just happened. My phone just immediately starts going crazy, just buzzing, buzzing. And so I'm looking at it and I'm like, no, you know what? I started now. It's all my buddies going, my gosh, we just saw you on Tell You How I got you on the and what I'm saying a screenshot transmission with a sign, you know, and he's behind me like this. And then there's my wife's. And I went, no. And she said, Did you just endorse Trump for president? So I just screenshot the picture and I said, It doesn't know. Why would you say that? Yes, I do not get on stage and and there. I am on the stage. And the next day. I got in an Uber car in Oklahoma City to go to the airport. I'm sitting right beside this driver, little old guy. He looks at me. Guess what did you fellows do last night? And I said, We went to the Oklahoma State Fair. He goes, So did I. He goes, I went to see Donald Trump. I said, Did you? He goes, He's going to be the next president. Of the United States. I said, Do you think so? He said, yeah, yeah, we believe in him. He's going to be the president. And I said, Do you see that dude? I got up in the middle of the speech. I'm this far, though. He goes, You know who that was? Willie Robert. And from Duck Dynasty. He flew in just to endorse Father. And I said, Really? He goes, yeah. He's a huge fan of Mr. Trump. Yeah, he's a big television guy, and I'm sure I am. And I said, Sara, do you know who I am? He looks at me, goes, No idea. I said, I'm that dude. I'm well, I was on the stage. And I thought, he's going to freak out. He goes. You had a different bandana on. I said, I did have a Denver bandana. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't recognize you with that other bandana home. So that's how I met. Have you ever met him again? I have, yeah. I saw him a couple. Of more times. He did? Well, Don Junior came. The house haunted that when we set up, we set a fire. Well, Phil made. Me so mad at my dad. So, Dad, I go. So Don Junior is going to come duck out with us because I'm coming down the stockyards. Perfect. He said, Well, I'm going to Mexico for my anniversary. Four days. Four days. I'm in Mexico. So I go to Mexico. Yeah. And your phones are jacked up down there. You know, it's like numbers come in. So I'm leaving the Mex Mexico airport. Come to America. I get this car. I don't. But it doesn't say who it is. I answer it. This dude is talking so fast. Am I? He is nowhere within a thousand miles of where I live in the south. But it was a northern accent. He is. And I'm like. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Who is this? He goes, It's Don Junior. I say, Hey, what's up? I say, we own Honda. And he goes, I don't know if I can come. I don't know. I don't know. We're still we've got to figure it out. I said, what happened? He was like, Because of what. Your dad did. Like, I've been gone for four days. I'm like, four days. What? Who has he offended? What is he done? And I counter says, my my dad, he lives on. The end of a dead end street. Does not have a cell phone. Does not have a computer. But somehow he can get messages out all. Over the world, like instant. And it's amazing how he can how he can do this. Mike, what did he do? He said he endorsed Ted Cruz. I said, no. I was like, where did that come from? He goes, There's commercials. So there's commercials. In four days he has met Ted. Cruz and he has endorsed Ted Cruz. And there's commercials. He goes, yes, they're playing right now. So pull up the commercial fills. And it says in the Doug plan. So it's Ted, and they've all got a face that's got this face, but it doesn't look like it's in play. He's scared to death. Like everyone's like that, choosing their, you know, spits come out of their mouth. And then there's Ted Cruz. Like, I use my face, my family. Where are you guys? We're voting for Daddy Cruz. He's a brother in Christ. We're all voting for him and insinuate like we're we're all like the whole Duck Dynasty. Cruz about when I'm not there. Obviously, I'm in Mexico. I went, my God. So I call the house. Mom answers the phone. I said, Mom, where's Phil? He's in the woods. I said, Well, crap, I got to talk to you because you guys are trying to find him. I said. She goes, What's wrong with you? I said, He just made a commercial with Ted Cruz. Nobody. These are the things you have to tell me. Like I'm saying, you have to let me in on. And she goes, now he is going to be mad over that. He knew you like Trump. But, you know, Ted Cruz showed up with a bunch of TV cameras. And I don't know that next thing I know. And I said, Well, Mom, he said, we're. All voting for him. We're not all. Us. And she goes, No, no, no. He didn't mean. All you boys. He meant all the Christians. I said, Mom, I'm a Christian. Well, you know what I mean. So, okay, so he's. So he said. So he said so. Don jr. Finally, chis I r I'm going to. He was like, I'm not coming down there. If you're endorsing, you know, is it your sus. We're going, we're going to set up dag so we're going to burn him on this and don you to come down ducats and you know he's lights out. Yeah. Yeah. And I knew it. So, you know, he's in jail now, so Dad's blown away. And so what a good shot Don is. Yeah. Yeah. And so. So I reached out to Hannity Handy. I said, put me and Phil on the show. I'm back. And Trump, he's back and Cruz. Apparently and as a hammer said that. Suck it up so we get on the show. Dad and I are going after. And I said, hang on. I've got. One question to ask Phil. On the show. I said, you very recently went duck hunting with Ted Cruz and he also went hunting with Trump. I just said Trump. I didn't say that as a child. I said. Dad. Who exactly is the better hunter? Phil said, I ain't a doubt about it. That came from New York. His shoes. I got him saying that Cruz was an attacker because. I asked Dad, is that all I can at the Brazile about? Finally, truth. Cruz dropped out, thank goodness. And so then they all came on board. You've been on board ever since. He has been. He has been. I mean, is there anyone in the world that I mean, I think things have changed since then, of course. But like the world that you live in is probably pretty much under percent. Trump At this point. Yeah. I mean, down there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's. Well, now it is for sure. I mean, like, did you have a lot of friends voting? Kamala Harris. Yeah. I mean, we're just because I know a lot of people outside the A.O.. Know, I. Mean, in production. Yeah. I mean, I've done tons of TV. I mean, so, yeah, I've got friends all over who were and we had great debates, but it's the way it should be. Like we debate, well, I wish were friends, you know, and then I can certainly look at Trump and call them like. That doesn't make sense. Ah, that's not how I feel or that's not what I would say. That's ugly or that's unkind or whatever it is. And so and this year I will staying out of it. I really wasn't because of the book, because I when I wrote this book and I said, I don't want to get pulled it. I want this message to come out, you know, Yeah, I want the mess of the gospel and I don't want it to get gummed up with an I understand, you know, because I was and I'm I was the first speaker in the 2016 convention. I was the first. You were. You don't remember? No. That powerful message I like. Golly, Tucker. Where were you? I think I was just in a cloud of euphoria to the. And you're and now you got remember 16 when I went out there, they were like, all right, look, we don't know how this is going to go, remember, because they were fighting. They were they didn't know where they were going to walk off or. Yeah. So they were like. Good luck, Willie, because I was the. First gal like, I was the first guy on the stage. And Don Junior called and he said. My father wants you to speak at the convention. I was like, And I was gathering my breath to say no. Because I was just going to be like. Because in my mind, I thought I was like 45 minutes. I was like, I don't have 45 minutes. I may on politics, you know, and I'm God. And I said. I said, let me check my schedule. That's what I said. Let me check my schedule Now. He goes, okay, well, check your schedule and I'll get back with it. So like the next day someone calls some lady calls and says, Hey, so we've got you scheduled. You're the first speaker. And I'm fixing to tell her like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't I didn't I didn't say yes, you know? And she goes, you're the first one up. You go for three minutes. And I went, Three minutes. That's a commercial break. Yeah, of course I'll do three minutes, you know. And so I was yes, I was first speak in the 16th. What did you say? I can't even remember. I mean, it was not that I was like, I really. Don't. Do you think he was going to win that year? I did. Did you think he's going to win this year? I did. Why? Well, I thought he had a really good I mean, I was a little I called it at 833 Central Time that night when I saw Virginia, North Carolina. Since our president was close, I was like, it's over. Yeah. I mean, I just I wasn't sure about North Carolina. That was only state that confuses me sometimes. But Virginia, I mean, I think he was winning like, you know, like early on, I was like, it's a and I told my family, I'd texted my friends and Trump wins, it's over. But yeah, I had a good I had a good sense about it. It just it felt like it did in 610. It felt like I was just kind of looking at the culture and looking at what people were saying. I was like, These got a lot of people that are, you know, because it wasn't it wasn't as weird as it was before. Like that was kind of cool. It was like you weren't ostracized as much. My six things, I mean, there was it was people did not like him in 20 my gosh, whichever covid them in the whole Covid. And I said that year probably my earlier that year somebody asked me who I was. When I saw Trump, I said, Trump's got this. There's no way he can lose the economy strong. We're safe. We're not in the war. I said That said, that's game over. I said, unless something really weird happens. I said that like they. Manufacture a virus in China. And then the weird thing happened and they go. And. But I went to bed last time thinking I went to bed. And 20 here I was like, it's over. But she fell asleep before they. Got to the. Polling places. And I was like. So here's a question you shouldn't have to think about, but probably do. What would you do if your family needed life saving medication and you couldn't get any? You hate to think you're going to face that. We depend on our supply chains all the way from Asia to here, thousands of miles across the Pacific Ocean. But let's be honest. That chain is fragile. Just one weather event, one container ship accident, an unexpected crisis. A war. We're on the brink of a couple and suddenly you can't get the medication that you need that your family needs. Now, people are going to tell you, don't worry about it, Calm down. Everything is fine. All right. But why not spend a little bit of money to make sure everything actually will be fine? And that's what the J. J. S case comes in J. S e case. It's not paranoid. It's planning. The J. Case is a simple portable supply of emergency medications. Once you actually will need the you can keep at home. So you're totally prepared. It's better to be too early than too late, though. At this point. Nobody thinks we're going to be too early with this. Check it out for yourself, Jay Seacom and use the code Tucker for a discount. That's Jay Stockholm promo code. Tucker. You should do it. We have. Did anyone in the, you know, in Louisiana have questions about that election? 2020. All of me. That's what I thought. My. We've all got questions, but I don't understand what it is like. I was like, I've listened to people over time. There's tons of people who question that stuff always. They quite. Like. You know, they question like, was it done right? Was it, you know, I mean, I didn't realize it was a crime to question, just to make sure that I. Did everything right because it. Seemed strange. Maybe it wasn't, but. It was strange. Yeah. Yeah. I think the people in Louisiana are all, you know. Yeah, it was pretty awful. A few cities were waiting, though. We'll let you know tomorrow how much we're behind. Yeah. Yeah. They had to tell you the number of votes they needed. So what's the new show? Yeah, we have a we are getting back into production. It's kind of like the next generation of Duck Dynasty. So my kids are older. Well, so since 2000. 17. 2024? Yeah. A lot's happened. The cast has grown up and then everybody else is still around. And so, yeah. So back with Annie. We met and they said, Hey, you guys should, you know, kind of redoing the show. And the fellow at the time was right. Met with the family, prayed about it, was like, I think the kids are excited and said, Yeah, let's show. You know, we realized, Tucker, what you know, we talk about the long show and it's like it's our work, whatever, you know? I mean, it's a lot. But man, when you talk to people and they tell you like, how much that meant to them and how much, I can't tell you how many people just like it was what my dad and I watched together and my mom passed away. I was like the last, you know, was the only thing that we could laugh at together. And we watched as a family. And I have like 25 year olds even here. I mean, these kids are like when I was eight, I watched every show you had and just, you know, watching the prayer at the end, just watching our family be positive with our, you know, the roles were correct. And it wasn't a lot of, you know, just darkness and stuff that people watch. And it wasn't just a train wreck. And so it's really inspiring. You're like, man, you know, it's good to make something, especially when it came out originally, you know, it was a pretty much a little bright light amongst a lot of, you know, some dark stuff out there, some dark TV. So so I think when you can do that and you can provide that for people. There's no pressure at all from. Your corporate masters to change anything or make it? No, I mean, I actually I mean, to be honest, you. I feel stronger now than I would then because they know who we are, you know? Yeah. I mean, they know we're all. But it's not like. I mean, back then, they didn't know. They were like, I think they're religious. Yeah. Yeah. But now, obviously over the past. Well, perhaps since 2000, you know, the last 12 years, you know where we stand. You know what we're what our morals are. You know what's important to us. And. And we have a lot of followers. You know, I'm saying, like, we have social media and society has millions of people. You know, my kids have followers. They you know, so a lot of people are interested in that. And it's it's they're interested in I think they want to be entertained. But they also, you know, I think they learn stuff. I think they can watch and learn. Yeah. A lot of people. Who watch their show are like, well, we never prayed like we never prayed before a meal. We didn't even know, you know, And we started trying that, you know, probably more often than not, even the praying. They rarely ever sat down and even played together anymore. That's a gone. That's the saddest thing. They were like, we never even. We never even have dinner. Everybody's just grabbing and going, you know, I'll meet you there. Mitch said the day I go to the ballpark, you know? And so this whole idea of just sitting down and just spending time with each other at dinner was becoming a foreign concept. And so I think people can learn and they can be like, that's, you know, maybe they can't. They don't have the family. We do. Maybe they don't have maybe everybody doesn't live there like that, but they can kind of live through that and kind of, you know, start their own, you know, traditions or doing something more as a family and realizing, you know, the importance of it. And and then also just taking a break and not, you know, I think what I love about the guys was we didn't take ourselves too seriously. We had fun. We laughed and God, I mean, do we need that? I mean, we. Yeah, need some, you know, everybody. So I think if you had written this book ten years ago, it would have seemed pretty weird. You know, was reality TV show writing a book about spreading the gospel? Right. Does not seem weird now. Do you think the country's changed? I think it's changing. Yeah. I think it's I think it's certainly changing. I think people are looking for answers. That's why I wrote the book. I think the thing we get so lethargic and some of this was even like even in churches, they get they just get lethargic and they get off. You know, you got to know what your goal is and we're kind of what you're here for and what your mission, you know, what your mission. Your mission. Well, I take my mission from Matthew 28, which is the it's labeled as the great Commission. Then Jesus says, go out and make disciples of all nations. Baptize people. Teach people three things. Three specific ideas make disciples, baptize people, teach people. So those are the last things he said for he left. Like, make sure you do this. So when that's your mission. He's think about what you've got to do to accomplish those three things. They probably had to have conversations with people. Yeah. If you're going to make a disciple out of them, if you're going to baptism, if you're going to teach them, you're going to have to have some sort of conversation. And so what I find is people, if your mission in life is as a as a Christian, if you're like, well, I'll try to go to church as often as I can, I try to be a good person. Nothing in of itself wrong with that. That's not a mission. And what happens is the mission, because comes a little self. I go to church so I can listen. So I can learn, so I can try to get through my week, you know? And everything's becomes inward. Those three things Jesus said were outward. It's out, out, out. Other people. Other people. Other people. Not just you. It's other people. And again, back to my father. He was sitting at a bar. The guy drives up there. Why? Why? He's not going to be a member of his church. He doesn't have any money. He's a reprobate. You know, who's got a terrible reputation. What drove him to drive up there that hour? Drive? Walk into that bar. What drove him to do that? It was just for him. Just for that guy. Yeah. And I thought. I thought. Wow. I don't know if I would when I drop out, you know, But he did that. It literally changed my life. It changed my whole family's life and that would have been it. I'm not a big prosperity guy like. And look what God has done. You know, look at what. He gave us. It paid off. Didn't matter if it just changed our life. And kept our family together. Worth it. When I said we're worth it, I got to see my dad and grow up with two parents worth it, you know? Then you look over time as then Dad took that and then never went about this for money or fame or anything. I really pushed that away more than embraced it even when I showed you the show. And he's like, No, you know. And that was that was a little different, too, with that. We didn't get an email was sent to us. A company came to us, The network came to us. We weren't trying to go become famous. Right. And so you see a lot today, You know, people are like, I'll do whatever it takes to get famous, you know? And so there's no authenticity there. It's like, we want. You to do this. Fine, I'll do it. Well, I'll be famous. Yes. And I'll do it. You know. Why would you want to be famous? Why would. Anyone. I don't know. It seems like a lot of I mean, from from me do. People want to be famous. What do you think you are famous. What do you think of it? It has its good parts about it. What are those? The people I've been able to meet? Yeah. I wouldn't know you if I wasn't. Yeah, well, you wouldn't have invited me on this podcast. Had another TV show. You know. I don't know. I ran into an elevator in Nashville. That's true. But you thought I was a homeless guy. I did. Yeah. He put money in my car. So it's filled. With desperate. People. Anyway, I did a spin of my cover, and he said he looked at me and he said, Did you spin your first words? You said to me. You said, Did you spend that kind of deposit in. An elevator as a potential friend of mine? That's how I feel about. You started doing your little maniacal laugh and he started laughing so hard. And it was so funny because of all the people. I was expecting them to say it was a joke. That you do. I didn't expect to catch Willie Robertson, dip it in an elevator, but that was it. I was I was. Headed to my room. I'd been promoting this book. And. And you happened to be there as well, which is how this all ended up. And I think, God. You know, I don't know. I think I was like that. I think it puts people together and, you know. Just seems too weird to me. Not. So I think there's those opportunities that people have and they meet and somebody take advantage of somebody down. Some you miss and you're like, crap, you know? And yeah, but I just, I don't know. I mean, why he did that in the Bible, you know? Yeah, there was, there was things moving around and so. So it could be for that person. Could be for someone else. Could be for something completely different. You know, some situation that maybe needs to to get out. And so, but it was interesting that I had written this book. I decided this year, I'm not jumping in this even though so tempting. I tried to get me to, you know, get involved, you know, and and I really just said, now I'm not and I'm I'm just going to promote this book. And then and then I made sure. And then you said, hey, you should come on the podcast. And it was scheduled for a few months ago. And I went. I'm going to get pulled into the holidays. I was like. I said, I'm going to get pulled into this thing. And and then as it turned around and spun around, we still did podcast after the election. And then, yeah, then that was kind of the commitment I made. Just don't get so in because I didn't want to mess. I don't, I don't care. Well, I really don't care. Like if it's the gospel or some political agenda. I'm going with the gospel every time because this is the power. This is, you know, if we can change peoples, you know, I just saw thought it may change me but it like somebody like my father can change people's lives and turn them into completely different people. And so that's what I want to get to people. You know. Politics turns people into completely different people, too, but really for the better. Right. I mean, it it has its place in it, you know, And I and I'm not casting aspersions on people who, you know, want our country to be, you know, a great country. And, but we're, you know. I'm not even one that says we have or we have to. Everything's got to be like you have to be Christians in every position I'm in. I mean, now that's okay. I mean, we can work together and figure that out. Let the gospel do it. It does. And let politics do what it does and let government, you. Know, so almost like render under Caesar what is Caesar's and. Exactly. Exactly. Where do you get that? So yeah because and that's the thing head back to mission. So I'm into that mission like disciples baptize people teach people not to you know, I think if Jesus wanted us to just make sure your government is, he would have talked about it, right? You said, yeah, let's lay out a plan and and all that because it was, you know, under these governmental things that he was going to end up being crucified anyway. So then those things are there there of the world. I mean, they're, you know, they're here and they come and they die and they go away and they change and, you know, stuff happens. And, you know, I was like, if we if that's where we end up. And I do think there's a lot of darkness for sure, but they need the gospel. They don't need better programs and. DC you know, and that's what I'll change it. look, now families are staying together. And you know, that's not going to be it's not going to be that way. And it's going to be when the church wakes up and decides to go out and and have that kind of mission. You know, it's to go after. But we can't hate each other. That's the problem. We can't hate each other because that's the day. I mean, I can't and I saw that so much in this one guy. I got roasted. I mean, people get in my face and if I said the wrong like. If I said, I'm not, I'm writing this book and I'm not. Doing as much with and people are just like, work. This country is right. We're not going to have our country tomorrow. But what I like about that is this like my fall. It's like. Like they're telling me it's my fault that I'm not in my house. Not my fault, you know? And that's what we got to. And then it was just bullying everywhere. Everybody's just bullying everybody. I mean, certainly saw that with, you know, the Democrats being bullying or you better vote this, you know, like like we're telling you what to do. And I'm just not good at people telling me what. So I'm like, you know. Tell me what to do. Don't you know, vote for more than that. Now, as I know you got to do more. You know, you've got to go out and you know, and do all this. I understand their their passion and all that. But we've got to let people and some of that's the part it's their job is to win the vote. You know, it doesn't answer the deepest questions like what happens when you die, right? It doesn't address that. So when. You die. Yeah. Yeah. When you die. When you die. So my last question is, if I do think a lot of people are all of a sudden wondering, like, is there something beyond what we can see here, feel and taste? I mean, is there, you know, is there a spiritual realm? Is there a God? And I people all around me are asking those questions. What would you recommend to them? Like how to pursue that? You something stirs in you. You think, wow, maybe I should learn more. Right? I mean, I found those answers in the in the Bible and particularly in the New Testament. You know, that's where I found those answers. That comes down to the faith. Like you've got to have this faith and you're going to have to jump and believe something that you can't see. It's interesting how people can't do that. I mean, I was talking to a guy one time. I was having one of these conversations. I don't know if this story's in the book, but there's a lot in there for having the stories. I am I don't believe in faith. I don't I don't see it. I don't believe it. You know, And he was he just got married. And I said and we're at the we're at a hunting camp. And I said, where's your wife right now? He's like, she's at home. And she's I said, I bet she's with another guy. And he said. I love how you proselytize. Yeah. And he said, No, she's not. And I can tell he's mad as hell. Yeah. He's been married like six months. I said, now for sure she's, she's with another guy like no doubt. And he goes, no she's not. You know, we. What are you doing? I said, How do you know she's not? Because. Because I trust her. And I said. So you do have faith in something that you can't see. And he went. I've never thought about it that way because atheist, he was a he said, I'm an atheist. I don't believe in any of this stuff. And so it was just a small move, though. We moved him off. Of that position. Now we have moved him to. There are some things that even though I can't see it, I have faith. Why do more preachers not start with that? I bet your wife's sleeping with somebody else that works. Maybe they have got enough hunting camps. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, for me, though, what else? I mean, like. He's an atheist. Also say. Okay, good luck with that. Let me know how that works for you. You know, I mean. I'm trying to think of. Paul says in the New Testament, Paul knew the gospel better than anybody who's a writer. And he says, Pray for me that the mystery of the gospel can come out of my mouth more clearly. He's praying that it can come out more clearly. My question is why? Why is he he knows this like he wrote it. You know, he's writing because someone opened it somewhere given. He's gone. So you have to keep coming at, like, keep asking more questions, Keep. Maybe I'm not asking the right questions. There's a story in the book, a beautiful story of a guy that I just kept. And kept trying. To. He had problems with his brain. Like he had lesions on. I was on that and I was like, He's going to die. I, I don't think he's a Christian. I don't think he's a believer. And I'm just like, Hey, man, we thought about heaven and how he would say the same thing every time to me. Well, he who had not sin cast the first stone. That's what he would say it was. He was quoting a scripture, and I knew it. That man, that's that's redneck for I don't want to hear what you got to say. Like, yeah, I'm not. And I was like. So I could have thought, well, I tried, you know, I'll get to heaven. I tried to remember. I told you four times and every time he just the desert desert while. And so finally, we're in a car. We're in New York City working on a business deal. We talked about money. Super rich guy. We talked about money. He's very smug and he's like, We're gonna make so much money. I was just like, it was just like, he was so excited about it, you know? I look at him as I said, how I said, how do you. And he said, I'm 58 years old. And I said, I bet you're going to be dead in 14 years. He looks. Back. Here's what. I said. I bet you're gonna be dead in 14 years. He goes, Why would you say that? And I said, The way you live, you know, I said, But you're I mean, I'm just guessing. But I said, Have you ever thought about that? Like, what's going to happen then? What happens then? And so we just did an investment. What do you invest in anything beyond here? There's this here. He goes, I've never thought about that for you know what he didn't say? He who had not seen cast the first stone. No. We got past that. Yeah, yeah. We finally got past that. And I was like, if we get past that and so we get to the we get to the hotel, we're in Manhattan. And he goes, Can you come up and tell me more about that? Let's say, Yeah. So I go to my room, I get my Bible, I go to his room. Now sit down. And that's the. I got like seven verses on Star Wars. And I started reading them to. He stands up in the middle of town and he yells his wife, She's a bear because. I'm getting baptized. And I was like Mass Midnight where I got to central Ohio and where I gotta go find some water here, you know. And it was I was ready. I was like, We're go find some. And I said, Well, let's go. I guess I bought a hotel in New York City. I said, We'll go fast. Why? I said, no. I got to everybody. I got to everybody I know. That what's supposed to happen? This is the same guy I've been working with for years and he's like, he, you know. And now he's saying, Out, go. And he emailed everybody. He knows everybody to find like a month later, show up to his house, the big house. There's people. People from New York, L.A., Florida. People have shown up because he said, I'm getting baptized, Come watch this. And so so I get there. And how well can we get. Everybody gathering. As Willie? Tell him what you told me in that hotel room that night. And I said, Yeah, no problems go through that. So. His wife gets baptized. Daughter gets better. He is baptized. Is anybody else? They just are straight. Men in blue jeans taking their boots just totaled. Over and over and over, just like what's happened in the. You say that in the book of acts like 25 people that night over that that one that conversation But I didn't stop that conversation when you don't hear you just you keep on. And plus I'm still there. Sometimes it takes 20 minutes. Sometimes it takes two hours, sometimes it takes 20 years because I don't give up on them because they didn't give up on that. I would have given up on for a long time ago to said, get that sucker. He needs to go to jail, you know. But that dude didn't give up. His sister didn't give up on that guy. I went up there and talked to him. And it changed my whole life. And so I never give up on anybody. You never know. You never know when that time is. And they're like, no. And they're ready. And they're like, So we're just really planting the seeds. I'm just planting the seeds because I'm ready. I want to, you know, make disciples on the baptize people. I want to teach people. That's one of the. So everything I'll look at and like, where does it fall in that category? This book does the TV show does the stuff for my kids, do the family stuff. You know, all of it can fall through there. And that's what I want. It's it's way more than going to church and, you know, having some luck and be in a Chris way on that. That's like an hour a week. That's that's nothing like I'm like you. Hey, how about this? You take your hour. Don't go to church. I want you for the other six days and we'll go change a world, you know? But people got a mission. They got a they got a bad idea, and they're thinking. And it's just like a shovel and hours. I mean, try that in your marriage. Try that with your kids. Try to see them an hour, you know, see if that gets you enough to get through. And so it's just a bigger idea and it's a bigger concept. And then when you're in that moment, when I when I've when you're there with people and you watch their lives change and then you watch the fruit of that come out of it. It's a good it's like a high. I mean, it's like that's what it's all about, you know? That's the kind of stuff, the where you then go on, there is hope. And so I live my life based on there's hope and something beyond. If it's not, it's not. And I've hopefully lived a great life. I've great friends. I've, you know, the my the my faith and the principles of the Bible has kept me out of a lot of misery and hell and, you know, bad stuff and. But I'm thinking that there is and I'm I see evidence everywhere. I see evidence everywhere. You know. Like what? I mean, I just I can see it in people's lives. I can, you know, if Jesus lives in us, the Holy Spirit lives. And as I can see it in their lives, I can I can see this. I can see people doing this in life. Why would you do that? Why? Why? Like there's no advantage. It's not financial. Exactly. I'm seeing them share and do things and sacrifice. And I see them for each other. Yeah, for each other. For other people and for, you know. I can see it. I can. I can feel it. Like I can at times. I feel stuff too, you know? Like, it just seems like I'm like, wow, that's a lot of you. I can't help but think. Something was going on with Trump. Like there's a lot of weird you turn your head the right way. Doing this. We were shooting bears today. Yeah. How close is that to close? I mean. To two. Who knows what would happen? Who knows what today would look like? You know what I'm like? Who knows? So it just, you know, I'm not. I'm just saying, look, like God was doing something there. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what it is. And I don't know, you know. But that's the faith part. I think sometimes we're out. I think we think our goal is to try to figure it out. No. Like, we're like. We're like. We have to know. We got to read the signs and we got to everybody was wanting to know, like, what's going to happen. Even with our country, like, where will we be in 20 years where it's like, we want to know, But there's too many factors like, Yeah. Yeah, that's impossible. It's impossible. You can't figure that out. You got to live. I can always look back and it makes sense. I'm like, wow, that made sense. But looking forward, that's the and if and that's the message that I'm going to. But somebody who's been sharing this message for 2000 years. We're halfway around the globe from where it happened. And still talking about it. True, they had no money. They had no fame. They weren't soldiers. They weren't you know, they didn't speak the same language. We're speaking a different language. We are sitting here today halfway across the globe, and we're still talking about it. I'm still writing books about it, living our lives on it and professing it. It just. That's a big deal. Like, I haven't seen that with anything else. Most everything else 20 years ago, we don't even know. What it is. They're gone. It's just gone. We don't know their names. They're all. Willie Robertson, thank you very much.