- Mathematics began as a to measure land, predict the motions of planets, Then came a problem considered impossible. The secret to solving from the real world, to and to invent new numbers so fanciful they are called imaginary. Ironically, 400 years later, in the heart of our best Only by abandoning math's could we discover reality's true nature. (light music) In 1494, Luca Pacioli who is Leonardo da Vinci's &quot;Summa de Arithmetica,&quot; of all mathematics known in In it, there's a section on the cubic, any equation which today plus bx squared plus People have been trying to the cubic for at least 4,000 years, but each ancient civilization the Babylonians, Greeks, Chinese, Indians, Egyptians, and Persians, they all came up empty-handed. Pacioli's conclusion is that a solution to the cubic equation is impossible. Now, this should be at since without the X cubed term, the equation is simply a quadratic. And many ancient civilizations had solved quadratics Today, anyone who's passed eighth grade knows the general solution. It's minus b plus minus all over two a. But most people just plug completely oblivious to the geometry that ancient mathematicians You know, back in those days, mathematics wasn't It was written with words and pictures. Take, for example, the equation x squared plus 26x equals 27. Ancient mathematicians would like a literal square And then 26x, well, that would be a rectangle and the other side of length x, and these two areas together add to 27. So how do we figure out what x is? Well, we can take this 26x So now I have two 13x rectangles so the new shape I create It's just missing this section down here. But I know the dimensions of this section. It's just 13 by 13. So I can complete the square by adding in a 13 by 13 square. Now, since I've added 13-squared or 169 to the left-hand I also have to add 169 to the right-hand side of the equation to maintain the equality. So now I have this larger square with sides of length X plus Now the square root of 196 is 14. So I know that the sides of which means X is equal to one. Now this is a great visual way to solve a quadratic equation, I mean, if you look at x equals one is a solution. But so is negative 27. For thousands of years, to the negative solutions because they were dealing lengths and areas and volumes. I mean, what would it with sides of length negative 27? That just doesn't make any sense. So for those mathematicians, You could subtract, that is find the difference but you couldn't have a negative answer or negative coefficients. Mathematicians were so that there was no single Instead, there were six different versions arranged so that the coefficients The same approach was In the 11th century, Persian identified 19 different cubic equations, again, keeping all coefficients positive. He found numerical by considering the like hyperbolas and circles, but he fell short of his ultimate goal, a general solution to the cubic. He wrote, &quot;Maybe one of will succeed in finding it.&quot; 400 years later and 4,000 kilometers away, the solution begins to take shape. Scipione del Ferro is at the University of Bologna. Sometime around 1510, he finds a method to reliably These are a subset of cubic equations with no X squared term. So what does he do after solving a problem that has stumped One considered impossible by Leonardo da Vinci's math teacher? He tells no one. See, being a mathematician Your job is constantly under threat from other mathematicians and challenge you for your position. You can think of it like a math duel. Each participant submits a and the person who solves gets the job while the loser As far as del Ferro knows, no one else in the world can So by keeping his solutions secret, he guarantees his own job security. For nearly two decades, Only on his deathbed in 1526 does he let it slip to Fior is not as talented a but he is young and ambitious. And after del Ferro's death, he boasts about his own and specifically, his ability On February 12, 1535, Fior challenges mathematician who has recently moved to Niccolo Fontana is no As a kid, his face was cut leaving him with a stutter. That's why he's known as Tartaglia, which means stutterer in Italian. Growing up in poverty, Tartaglia He claws his way up to become a respected mathematician. Now, all of that is at stake. As is the custom, in the a very discernment of 30 problems to Fior. Fior gives 30 problems to Tartaglia, all of which are depressed cubics. Each mathematician has 40 days to solve the 30 problems Fior can't solve a single problem. Tartaglia solves all 30 in just two hours. It seems Fior's boastfulness Before the challenge that Fior's claimed to have but he's skeptical. &quot;I did not deem him capable of finding such a rule on But word was that a great mathematician had revealed the secret to Fior, So with the knowledge that a solution to the cubic is possible, and with his livelihood on the line, Tartaglia sets about solving To do it, he extends the idea of completing the square Take the equation x cubed You can think of x cubed with sides of length x. And if you add a volume So just like with completing the square, we need to add onto the cube to increase its volume by nine x. Imagine extending three sides creating a new, larger cube z is just x plus y. The original cube has been padded out and we can break up the additional There are three rectangular prisms with dimensions of x by x by y, and another three narrower prisms with dimensions of x by y by y, plus there's a cube with a volume y cubed. Tartaglia rearranges the into one block. One side has length three y, the other has a length and the height is x. So the volume of this shape is its base, three yz times its height, x. And Tartaglia realizes this the nine x term in the equation, if its base is equal to nine. So he sets three yz equals nine. Putting the cube back together, you find we're missing the so we can complete the cube by adding y cubed to both Now we have z cubed, the equals 26 plus y cubed. We have two equations and two unknowns. Solving the first equation for z and substituting into the second, we get y to the six plus At first glance, it seems than when we started. The variable is now raised instead of just three. However, if you think of the equation is actually a quadratic, the same quadratic that we So we know y cubed equals one, which means y equals one, so z is three. And since x plus y equals which is indeed, a solution And with that, Tartaglia becomes the to solve the depressed cubic. To save himself the work of for each new cubic he encounters, Tartaglia summarizes his a set of instructions. He writes this down not like we would today. Modern algebraic notation wouldn't exist for another hundred years, Tartaglia's victory makes Mathematicians are desperate to learn how he solved the cubic, especially Gerolamo Cardano, As you can guess, Tartaglia He refuses to reveal even a single question But Cardano is persistent. He writes a series of between flattery and aggressive attacks. Eventually with the to his wealthy benefactor, Cardono manages to lure And there on March 25, 1539 but only after forcing not to tell anyone the method, not to publish it, and to Quote, &quot;So that after my death, no one shall be able to understand it.&quot; Cardono is delighted and with Tartaglia's algorithm. But he has a loftier goal in mind, a solution to the full cubic equation, including the x squared term. And amazingly, he discovers it. If you substitute for x, x minus b over three a, then all the X squared terms cancel out. This is the way to turn into a depressed cubic, which can then be solved Cardano is so excited to that stumped the best mathematicians he wants to publish it. Unlike his peers, Cardano has no need to He makes his living but as a physician and For him, the credit is more The only problem is the who won't let him break it. And you might think this But in 1542, Cardano travels to Bologna and there he visits a mathematician who just happens to be the son-in-law of one Scipione del Ferro, gave the solution to the Cardano finds the solution which is shared with him during the visit. This solution predates So now, as Cardano sees it, he can publish the full without violating his oath to Tartaglia. Three years later, Cardano publishes &quot;Ars an updated compendium of mathematics. &quot;Written in five years, may Cardano writes a chapter for each of the 13 arrangements Although he acknowledges the contributions of Tartaglia is displeased, to say the least. He writes insulting letters to Cardano, and CC's a good fraction of And he has a point. To this day, the general is often called Cardano's method. But &quot;Ars Magna&quot; is a It pushes geometrical reasoning Literally. While Cardano is writing &quot;Ars Magna &quot; he comes across some cubic equations that can't easily be like x cubed equals 15x plus four. Plugging this into the that contains the square Cardano asks Tartaglia about the case, but he evades and implies Cardano is just not clever enough The reality is Tartaglia has Cardano walks back through of a similar problem to see While the 3D cube slicing and the final quadratic leads to a geometric paradox. Cardano finds part of a square but also sides of length five. Since the full square has an area of 25, to complete the square, Cardano has to somehow add negative area. That is where the square the idea of negative area. Now, this isn't the first time square roots of negatives In fact, earlier in &quot;Ars Find two numbers that add You can combine these X squared plus 40 equals 10 X. But if you plug this into the solutions contain the The obvious conclusion is which you can verify by looking There are no two real numbers, which add to 10 and multiply to 40. So mathematicians understood square roots of negative numbers were maths way of telling But this cubic equation is different. With the little guessing and checking, you can find that x So why doesn't the approach find the perfectly reasonable Unable to see a way forward, Cardano avoids this case in &quot;Ars Magna&quot; saying the idea of the &quot;is as subtle as it is useless&quot;. But around 10 years later, Rafael Bombelli picks up Undeterred by the square and the impossible geometry they imply, he wants to find a way through Observing that the &quot;cannot be called either he lets it be its own new type of number. Bombelli assumes the two can be represented as some combination of an ordinary number and which involves the square And this way, Bombelli figures out that the two cube roots are equivalent to two plus or minus the square So when he takes the final the square roots cancel out, leaving the correct answer, four. This feels nothing short of miraculous. Cardano's method does work, but you have to abandon that generated it in the first place. Negative areas, which must exist as an intermediate step on the way to the solution. Over the next hundred years, In the 1600s, Francois Viete introduces the modern ending the millennia-long tradition of math problems as drawings Geometry is no longer the source of truth. Rene Descartes makes heavy use of the square roots of negatives, popularizing them as a result. And while he recognizes their utility, he calls them imaginary which is why Euler later to represent the square When combined with regular numbers, they form complex numbers. The cubic led to the and liberated algebra from geometry. By letting go of what seems like the best the geometry you can see and touch, you get a much more powerful that can solve real problems. And it turns out the cubic In 1925, Erwin Schrodinger is that governs the behavior building on de Broglie's insight that matter consists of waves. He comes up with one of the most important and famous equations in all of physics, the Schrodinger equation. And featured prominently within it is i, the square root of negative one. While mathematicians have grown accustomed to imaginary numbers, physicists have not and are uncomfortable seeing it show up in such a fundamental theory. Schrodinger himself writes &quot;What is unpleasant here, and indeed directly to be objected to, is the use of complex numbers. The wave function Psi is surely fundamentally a real function.&quot; This seems like a fair objection, so why does an imaginary number that first appeared in turn up in fundamental physics? Well, it's because of of imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers exist on to the real number line. Together, they form the complex plane. Watch what happens when we Starting with one. One times i is i, i times i is negative one, by definition. Negative one times i is negative i, and negative i times i is one. We've come back to where we started, and if we keep multiplying by i, the point will keep rotating around. So when you're multiplying by i, what you're really doing is rotating by 90 degrees in the complex plane. Now, there is a function that as you go down the X-axis. And that is e to the ix. It creates a spiral by these rotations all along the X-axis. If you look at the real it's a cosine wave. And if you look at the imaginary The two quintessential are both contained in e to the ix. So when Schrodinger goes to he naturally assumes that will look something like e to the ix, specifically e to the ikx minus omega t. You might wonder why he and not just a simple sine wave, but the exponential has If you take the derivative with that derivative is proportional to the original function itself. And that's not true if whose derivative is cosine. Plus, since the Schrodinger you can add together an of this form, creating any and it too, will be a solution The physicist Freeman Dyson later writes, &quot;Schrodinger put the into the equation, and Suddenly it became a wave equation instead of a heat conduction equation. And Schrodinger found to his delight that the equation has solutions corresponding to the quantized orbits in the Bohr model of the atom. It turns out that the Schrodinger equation describes correctly everything we know about the behavior of atoms. It is the basis of all of And that square root of minus one means that nature works and not with real numbers. This discovery came as to Schrodinger as well So imaginary numbers discovered as a quirky, intermediate step on the way to solving the cubic to our description of reality. Only by giving up maths could it guide us to a deeper truth about the way the universe works. Not gonna lie, I learned a because I really had to that I was already familiar with. And that is exactly what the sponsor of this video. Brilliant is a website all kinds of STEM concepts, from geometry to quantum mechanics. And you learn by doing. They use interactivity to to the next level. Like calculus? No problem. It's way more fun when you work through and get to manipulate it visually. Check out these Surfaces of Revolution, a clear demonstration of how you can use an integral to find volume. The problems are carefully curated to increase in difficulty as you go. And if you get stuck, there If this video has whetted your they have an awesome from the Mandelbrot And for viewers of this channel, Brilliant is offering 20% to the first 200 people to sign up. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.