- This is one of the dirtiest And we're gonna pick up on this beach. Starting with this water bottle. One out of millions of pieces of trash. - We did it! - This will take forever. [upbeat island music] - Bottle me up, baby. I'm hungry for your plastic. - As you can see, this is taking forever. Oscar, come on in. This is Oscar, professional beach cleaner. Is this basically how - Mainly, we do the big stuff first and then we bring a lot of for the small stuff. - You scoop it into this thing and then shake out the sand, and you got a bunch of trash. This right here is the first bag of trash. Hundreds more to go. How - We just need more people. - That seems simple. Can you clap for me? [Oscar clapping] There you go! All the volunteers. (crowd cheering) - Okay guys, we're gonna We're gonna clean this up. Groups of four! Groups of four in this area. - Part of me wanted to could clean up this beach by ourselves, and the other part of me realizes that would've taken a year. - I could've told you that. - Jimmy! - [Jimmy] Yeah? The ocean's putting There's so much underwear in the ocean. - I'm enacting a new law. Thou shall not throw your - Wait, did you guys - Yeah. - You guys are better than us. They are professionals to be fair. (upbeat music) - After 12 hours of cleanup, this is what we managed to Boys, bring it in. Tomorrow, I'm gonna bring Tomorrow. (record scratching) (flip-flop squeaks) - Tomorrow. - It's now the next day. (crowd cheers) (upbeat music) - I'm helping. - Nah, nah, nah. - But as slowly as possible. - Who's more bueno? Mark Rober or MrBeast? - MrBeast. (piano music) - Make sure you watch to find out how we're gonna pick up 30 million pounds of trash. - Thank you for coming to our country and help us with this initiative. That is really awesome. (upbeat music) - Right here. Right there. Stop. He's not stopping. I'm gonna move. In this bad boy is 6,000 pounds of trash. And now we have 36,000 pounds of trash, which weighs the same as Whichever you prefer. While I was talking they mentioned that there's that was also very dirty. So I said Nolan with a bunch of volunteers to go clean that beach as well. There's a whole car bumper right here. - There's a car bumper here? - People litter weird things. - What type of trash have - Most importantly, most And we see that in every - They ended up removing which brought us up to a total of 50,000 pounds of trash - Check out this power move. Watch this. Look at that! - Is that how you want us to dump it? - Yeah, dude, I'm taking one for the team. I'm a team player. Oh yeah. I don't even have to look. - There you go, Mark. - It actually kind of works. - See? - And if you guys look over there, we're actually getting close This is what the beach looked like at the start of the video. And this is what it looks We're getting there. - We're doing it! - Unfortunately, between to the beach and rivers the mainland, obviously this But with your guys' help, we - We're almost done, Jimmy. - I know! Four straight And just like that, we removed from the world's dirtiest beach. And even though this 60,000 might seem impressive, there is sadly way too much Two years ago, we crushed and planted 20 million trees. - And now it's time to do it again. - Which is why we, along with are launching Team Seas. And for every $1 you one less pound of trash - But what if I wanted - I conveniently have 10 that is now out of the ocean. - Boom. Gone. - You get the point. One dollar donated as one less And I'd like to personally for supporting Team Seas They're gonna be matching worth of donations, dollar for dollar. And we wanna remove 30 million pounds of trash from the ocean. - Which is just so freaking audacious. This only happens if we all work together. - Half the money we raise is going towards funding volunteer beach all across the world, as well as literally fishing trash out of the ocean. - And the other half trash-eating robots that 365 days a year, from rivers - Go to teamseas.org or below this video right now. $1 equals one less pound Making real change like Go donate right now and help of trash from the ocean Let's show the world that (soulful music) - What are you doing? Get outta here. Go donate.