Researching this one literally killed me. Perusing all the quite unique ways we use words Or do I mean ambivalent? How ironic if I got that wrong? How bemusing would that be? Anyway, come on all you legends Sorry if that was painful. But this video is all about those words whose Mostly for worse. Now, please don't think Who the heck am I to tell anyone how to speak? But there are times when words are misused or and that's what this is about. To help us sort information or do I mean disinformation? I've called on an expert. This is Peter Sokolowski from Merriam Webster, His personal copy is massive. The working title of this And I'm trying not to be terribly, I'm actually not that negative about this sort way people use words. But I'm laissez-faire that I can use. If I stop being able to use a that now I can't be understood if I use So I've got to draw the line somewhere. [Peter Sokolowski] Sure. Sometimes people to support whatever is viewed as the first of all, correcting somebody's and it's not necessary for me. However, if you're [Rob] Peter's hopefully going to So, have you ever been about to because you're not sure if the word you're Not because it's complex, or rare, but because the word is so widely misused that you think the listener might Dictionary writers have a term that. Of course, they wouldn't be so judgmental as that it had taken on an alternative Here's how the ever-tactful Peter defines skunked. [Peter] Well basically it means that a word has that one is no longer entirely certain which way [Rob] A great example of the word that's The standard meaning of bemused is along the Being bemused is being baffled. But it is increasingly being Increasingly it's being used to So we're at the point now where if you your video left me most I'm not necessarily going to know what And that means you as a commenter Bemused has been skunked [Peter] I think bemused is the gold standard. The other one that I think of is meaning is perplexed or confused. But it's You have to really wonder when you encounter And so I would not use nonplussed in writing, [Rob] Another one along similar This is one I've definitely used wrongly before. Ambivalent means you don't No! I mean, yes it does now, but only Look in the dictionary and you'll see the century ago to refer to "profoundly opposing It doesn't mean disinterested at all. Oh flip, that's another one. I [Peter] Disinterested meaning neutral or objective and uninterested meaning simply It's clear to me that that's a make. Many very educated people don't make. [Rob] Isn't it weird how so many of are up for debate? Maybe we should be taking a Perhaps peruse the dictionary occasionally. Oh god, there's another one. Peruse. Used to mean examine with attention and in detail, May as well not use it. Skunked. One of my favourite writers on the subject John McWhorter. In his book Words on the which comes from Old English, has both become an indispensable verbal I haven't actually read that book yet, but I do know the key messages because Blinkist has over 6-thousand-500 each of which you can absorb in around 15 minutes. A search for "language" for example gives you a huge range of summaries of books from I've just been for a little Sunday morning of two books about how the English language Sorry you had to see this. I'm genuinely hooked on these. They're but reading or listening to is the best way I've found main points in a swift and entertaining way. What's more, Blinkist spaces enable you to share even if they don't have a That said, viewers of this video can Start your 7-day free trial by clicking It's free knowledge. What's stopping you? I asked the subscribers to my newsletter and my followers on X for their and thanks to them for some of But two words came up more than any others. In at number 2 was "unique", a word that Something is unique or it isn't. It can't be quite unique, it can't be That's how it goes anyway. I'm going to upset a few people here and If something is one in a million, isn't that more Feel free to hate on me But where I do agree is that we're maybe just If you say unique and you mean one-of-a-kind, you can't guarantee the listener or reader isn't So unique is at number two, because another word attracted even And that word is literally... literally. I think we all know what this is about. This newish usage of literally [Peter] Literally literally means by it's also frequently used as a modifier, a So the example I love is "I literally it's completely clear that you did not die, It's marking intensity. [Rob] So has literally been literally skunked? Well I'm not sure what being literally definitely argue that it is figuratively skunked. If I write "literally all my friends are getting Maybe I only have two friends. I don't. I've got at least three. The cat does count. I think in that case, it probably is skunked. But there is another term that we use for words We say those words have been "bleached". [Peter] So if I just said I the sentence actually has the same meaning. It the meaning of that sentence, are carried died laughing is what carries the meaning that It's removed, it's bleached, as we say. If we're going to talk about words that have been "ruined" we have to talk about The term is actually "semantic bleaching" and or it's meaning being diluted, One of the big ones of our The word was once reserved for the likes called a "genius" for knowing the keyboard Control, shift, V on a PC Command, shift V on a mac. How about hero, too? Rescuing someone Buying croissants for the entire office is not. There are loads of these. To be a legend, you Now you just have to have bought the last round. Ooh, and there's a really new one. Wild. Have you ever noticed how everything's that descriptor was reserved But now it can be found in You know the supermarket Wild. I said I wasn't going to get wound up like this. Peter Sokolowski, help me out here. [Peter] This phenomenon of semantic bleaching The word amazing or the word stunned, or or fabulous, or the word very itself - very So we are not using these words but we're judging literally a little bit And the same goes for the word unique. And I think that's because literally meanings that are clear. Unique means And so because those two are kind of I think those are the ones that we pick on [Rob] more the case that they're just at a different Right? Because actually, the that would have been very clear to people that but then its meaning changed, and literally: for a long time, and many of us are "to the letter", but it's changing So Peter and I are hitting on a key more important to honour? A word's of the word literally amount to - One word more than other embodies this dichotomy and that word is decimate. Many of you will already know this, but It was a term used by the Romans to of selecting and executing every The deci at the start means 10. As a result, you'll often hear it said that has been reduced by a tenth - because However, its actual usage in English more severe - it means to reduce And it has been used to mean So after centuries of being most often surely that is what it means in English [Peter] And the other thing about context is always very clear, unlike So if you say stock prices were it's completely clear that you mean that's one of those words that people kind of only to, if you'll You're actually kind of pulling out I know the etymology, and that means [Rob] I know that's going But let me try and win them back by It's often the best way to find Particularly comparatively late like many words from Latin and Greek. Etymology gets us to that original It gives awesome back its strength You can play your Latin card with And I'll wish you'd been around to tell me that So I've been using enormity as "the enormousness of the situation", you know. I didn't realise that enormity Sorry. Oh, gosh. This is the OED. Apologies. [Peter] I love the OED. I mean, [Rob] Well, it says, enormity is "a breach in later use, a gross and monstrous offence". So when people talk about, say, "the they're not talking about how big it is, [Peter] That's right. And in the so called the first monolingual dictionary of A lot of these terms are given in kind of more "unorderly or out of square", because, again, So being enormous means And that has come to mean large. [Rob] The narrowing down of the mean extraordinary in size happened centuries ago. And it serves to show us that complaining about here are not new phenomena. I'm sure several of the comments below this video as you're watching it are along the lines And that's right, of course. But we can all I'm sure plenty of people being used to mean pleasant instead of foolish. I'll bet they tutted when silly was And Shakespeare would perhaps roll of weird to mean odd instead Our apologies to The Bard for that one. Oh and here's another interesting Now it means to say you're sorry, as its etymology dictates - Suddenly the titles of all manner of pamphlet And so do those "I'm sorry if you Following on from that modern let's just take one last look at because we can see that there are words whose One I've noticed is "problematic". Its meaning is broadening significantly but also "potentially presenting a or even just "potentially something It's become politically charged to the point [Peter] Problematic is a good I probably wouldn't use it in its most basic judgement that has been brought and [Rob] Another one to watch is the word "truth". It's gone from being something absolute that someone can own. You can have I'd argue if you're putting the word yourself if you're talking about the truth at all. You may well be. But maybe not. Anyway, I'm starting to My point is: the words we use do matter. It matters that they mean the same to the person who is saying them as they do to And that's why, sometimes, skunking They make that shared understanding And I think that's worth avoiding. [Peter] I think we should all celebrate and if you care about these distinctions, At the same time, the job of the for you, but also for everyone who [Rob] Thanks so much to Peter. He's Leave your suggestions for I've just realised I forgot to mention ironic And if you like learning what words mean, sign up to my free newsletter Thanks so much to Blinkist go to the link below to sign And you should watch this video next, I reckon. I'll see you over there. I've got literally nothing else to say.