Transcriber: Luca Valenti What if, what if you could decide exactly when and where Maybe instead of dying alone, in the middle of the night, you could be at home, You could decide who would be with you, as you left this life. And what if a doctor could help ensure Peaceful. Even dignified. You might never look at dying A hundred years ago, most people Modern medicine has saved but it also took the majority of deaths So we've become removed Our current medical model likes rather than a natural stage in life. So, some of you may have memories of loved ones who are dying Maybe in an acute care hospital. Perhaps attached to machines that or receiving treatments that Some might even have been begging Palliative care is an approach that over quantity of life. But every clinician knows there are times when no approach will adequately So what am I talking about? I'm talking about assisted dying, the legalized compassionate provided by clinicians who safely in specifically safeguarded circumstances, which include the explicit request Assisted dying. Now, right about now, myself included, who are fairly flabbergasted and talking to you about this topic today. Not the least of which is because delivering life into this world. Then in 2015, the Supreme Court the prohibition of assisted dying, and our government legislated And I became one of the first physicians to people who met How has this played out in my life? Well, my husband likes to joke that But seriously. I have met the most extraordinary people. I knew from the first moment I met him 68 years old, and he was proud to say and had lived the life of a free spirit. Like over 65% of the people I work with, Ed had a cancer that had progressed It was impossible for him Life confined within four walls When I arrived on the day we chatted for a while first, and after a few minutes he excused I was shocked when two minutes later, tie dyed pants, T-shirt, Despite all our previous interactions, I'd never realized Ed was I asked him why he chosen to wear and he told me he wanted "Are you sure you're ready?" "Oh, yes, I am certainly ready." He was lying there all colorfully laid out Not nervous, not sad, but not smiling. I was standing to his left, with my medications laid out And often at this time, I'll guide my patients But on that day, I leaned over instead, "Why don't cannibals ever eat clowns?" Well, he turned his face towards mine and he answered: "Because they always (Laughter) And we were nose to nose And I heard him chuckle as he turned And then he closed his eyes, Some moments really stick with you. And Ed's story really encompasses so much of what I want people That is an individual's choice, that what's most meaningful to the person that levity and humor can be acceptable, and that an assisted death almost always reflects a person's life You might be surprised to discover When I began this work in 2016, there were already six countries where some form of assisted dying was Today there are 14 countries and 11 regions within the US alone. Why do you think there's been I want to tell you about Harvey. By the time I met him, Harvey was 74 years old, I met with Harvey and his wife There is, of course, a rigorous a number of eligibility and procedural safeguards to be satisfied. You can't just call up and ask Harvey was terminally ill, but still very And within a matter of days, I was able to confirm that And then something remarkable happened. Harvey immediately stopped worrying and spend the rest of his days focused Harvey planned and attended a weekend for neighbors and friends, He snuck a final sip of beer, and eventually, we choreographed He told me who he wanted to be there, in his own bed, in his own home. And I quickly came to understand that Self-made and in control. When I arrived at Harvey's home we first spoke privately so I could and to get his final consent. And then I prepared his family When we finally gathered together There was only Harvey on his bed. His two grown children close by, both of them holding him, And his wife, sitting on a chair pulled up close and leaning in. I was holding his left arm, and Harvey was planning to die being held by his family, and gazing into the eyes of his wife. His wife of 52 years. Can you imagine? They connected their forehead to forehead, whispering to each other She held its face in her hands, and told him it was okay, That she would miss him, She whispered inaudible words. And I saw him smile. And the intimacy of that moment I'll admit I struggled to focus She told him to let go, And as was true hers were the last words Another one of those images Like I said, some things It's not always easy to explain my work. Can you imagine me at a cocktail party? Someone inevitably asks: I think the honest answer is: Death and dying are but we've been removed Most of us are poorly informed and often fearful of even asking But I urge you to take a closer look. Because assisted dying is humane, It will certainly change the way at the end of life. But take a closer look that assisted dying is less about death Thank you. (Applause)