Yesterday morning, I think it was, I realized that know, I recognized it. On my life, it's like important relationships. I always feel it. And not accepting all of my emotions--all of them. to feel my emotions when I was a child, and it is like a loving relationship should be only jealousy or frustration. It's like a notion that tension whenever I feel something which is this on yourself. I know it's like the common this is how love should be. And then I realized causing tension to myself because I am agreeing I feel all the human emotions, and I feel them it? And so it was like a light bulb, and I felt a and then I sat with all kinds of feelings, and I exactly how to explain it. It's like if I go into same taste, and I couldn't say what days, what is there. And it's like...and even perceptions and it's all the same taste, even as like the feel that I need some clarification. And also, very sensitive...that I'm very sensitive to or...that it's like scratching my skin, and it are connected. I don't know how, and I was asking, you have to sarcasm and cynicism, is it connected the same or have the same taste? Is then for those Right? I think I have a sense that they are maybe there are two different questions. You can is sarcastic to you or cynical, and you feel two other people when they talk to each other and not only toward me. But let's take an example. authoritarian. Yes, it's easier to see them. Can or cynical to you, what is it that is hard? I strong contraction in my body, and I get...and I feel anger. That's the answer to the question. I feel that, yes.&quot; Tell us about that. I don't know. I see it happening. I don't know what to say about that? If I am the one that is hurt? Or in the when you feel angry, when you feel upset, I feel jealous, etc.&quot; All these feelings all belong to &quot;I.&quot; And that is the one taste that have in common. So it's not actually necessary the jealousy, because they all share &quot;I.&quot; Yes. the one that gets upset, the one that is So if there's nothing there when you look for this hurt and upset and jealousy rising? I don't know. It's not in the thoughts. It's not in the emotion all your feelings are rising on its behalf. when you discover that the self on whose It's the same as I started. It's like...I don't This is just a game. I don't mean what I'm going Yeah, no. You heard those words, and Elspeth heard but she's not. Why? You both heard the same hurtful in my words? She would dare then. Well, Everyone else heard those words, but only one really hurtful, if they were inherently hurtful, then everyone would be equally hurt by them. But the words. Why are you hurt? I know you're not it that is hurt? I'm asking you. I don't know. I why am I aware of only this bad? If I'm awareness now...that's another question, and okay, you're sort of wriggling out of this little to the answer. Your...your...which is a way of non-existence to be discovered, so I'm going to trousers within. Yes, yes. So what is it that is Something has to rise up in you. Something has and say, &quot;No.&quot; What is that? I don't want to say same. It is...that it is a summation of things, A thought cannot be hurt, right? By my words, be hurt? No. Can a feeling be hurt? No. What is words. Can awareness be hurt? You know, what just stop being hurt. Stop getting upset hear people say things. Until you can find the then you can legitimately be upset. But until you funny, like saying, &quot;The wind, don't blow.&quot; It &quot;Don't blow.&quot; I mean, it happens. It's arising all the non-existence of the separate self has not you that the one that is hurt is non-existent, that. There is no place for that. So next time you to you or between themselves, and you feel this the feeling by saying, &quot;Oh, they were so unkind the non-existent self. Ask yourself to be happy because it is your opportunity. Just ask yourself ask yourself, &quot;Where is the one that is hurt? Who find it. I have...there, I feel that there, and I allow the feeling that rose to just be there self?&quot; Just allowing. Is it the same? No, no. If up and go. And then the next time someone is and it will go on and on and on, rising up again until you recognize the non-existence of the one &quot;All this appears in open, empty awareness.&quot;