Hey everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview tools. And today, I want to give you a better way I see so many people out there giving these they talk about just their accomplishments So, when an employer asks them, Tell me accomplishments and some of their work experience Well, that's okay. And that's a method that I actually teach But I want to give you a better way to do way to do it, a more human way to do it. Because you think about it? Theyre saying, Tell me about yourself. They're not saying, Tell me about all the They want to know about you as a person. And so, this is like the only question that them. And when you get personal with someone, that a long lasting connection. And that's what you want in the interview. You want to connect with that employer or they remember you, so that they see that you and they want to know more about you. So, when they ask you, Tell me about yourself, and really, what a lot of people are doing are you qualified for this job? That's you're telling them about just your experience So, actually tell them about you, and the journey through your career; like how you then what are your next steps? What did you do? How did you first explore that passion? Did you go to college? Did you work somewhere? And talk about your journey through your career with where you see yourself going. So, let me give you an example. I mean, let's say you're in the medical field, a doctor or a medical technician, a nurse So, maybe a little kid, you found a kitten nursed back to health, and you just felt this you helped nurture this animal back to health. And then from that point on, maybe you were want to be a vet and I want to help animals That's how you start your answer off. You tell that story. Tell that story and you make a connection And then you tell them what you did next. Maybe in high school, you studied more about always knew you wanted to be a vet, or maybe I don't know; it could go either way. And then you talk about your journey into you went, and how you did it, and how you fueled you through the process of going through And then talk about what you did after college, Or maybe along the way, you volunteered at back to health over there, whatever. Tell them a story about you, how you got started, and how it's affected your life, and where do you see yourself going. Now, if you're not in the medical field, let's Let's say in high school, you were (you know, out more about ourselves). So, maybe in high school in 10th grade, you And for whatever reason, those numbers just You started thinking about accounting numbers and you are really good with numbers, and in your mind; whatever. Whatever inspired you to get into the field And then talk about what you did next. Maybe if this accounting book hit you in high in high school; maybe some clubs that you local church or Boy Scout club or whatever, expertise to help them keep their books, or you know, whatever. Tell them that story. Tell them how you got started in accounting. And then moved the next phase. Talk about what you did in college. Say, I loved accounting so much that I Maybe you went to a Miami University or Ohio Telling the school you went to, talk about were involved in that were related to finance. Maybe you were in a finance club, an investing And then maybe talk about some internships went to work. And whether you've been working for five years You don't have to be a fresh graduate to talk You could be a 20-year accounting veteran got started in accounting; they say, Tell school, I got bit by the accounting bug. And you know, I did this, and then I went accounting firm and you know And then I Tell them the story, talk about your journey, Now, let's say you're not in medical field, Let's do one more. Let's say you're an engineer. Let's say you're in the engineering field, before that. Maybe you talk about how you got the bug for And maybe you were in a robotics club in high and connecting the electronics to the mechanical made cogs in your own mind turn. It got you excited about engineering; electrical it is. And that's how you got excited about it, that's bit you. Still talk about that. And then you talk about what you did in high maybe you started a club, maybe you just participated, competitions, whatever. And then talk about where you went to school; or Maybe I went to Michigan University Talk about what you did in college and then whatever, and give them a feel for what you your life. Makes sense? So, a the end of the day, the best way to about your journey. Start wherever you got excited in your life. What part of your life did the bug bite you that you do? It could be engineer, it could be math, it Teaching is a wonderful gift that a teacher So, maybe you got excited early on because high school about how to do something or maybe some kids and you just loved teaching. So, you went pursue your path of teaching. You can apply this technique, this methodology, it, to anything in your career. And that's what employers want to know. That's what they really want to know. They want to know how you got excited and Now, don't make a book out of your answer. Ideally, your answer should be no more than 45 seconds. And to do this, get yourself a video camera, saying your answer to the camera and then See how long it took you to say that answer And then what that allows you to do is self-correct your presentation and to fine tune that answer, And then let someone let some family members And what this will do is to help you polish say to anyone and within a minute, anyone I mean, just yesterday, I worked with a client how memorable a story is. I just worked with a client on the phone about what she told me? She said she's actually in the medical field She told me that when she was a little girl, And so, what she did was she fed it worm; she wasn't supposed to do that. But what her telling me that story, she told mind, because it's such a sweet childhood And from that moment on she actually wanted She ended up going to medical school and now But still nonetheless, she stayed true to that was her journey. So, she got inspired as a little kid to be into medical school and then decided, That So, she ended up in medical sales. But she told me a story and a story sticks. If you just rattle off facts and figures that behind them, they're not memorable. And employers aren't going to remember you your accomplishments. But if you tell them a story about a baby got you involved into where you are now, that you, and they're going to remember you over Because not everybody else is talking about You see what I mean? So, go out there and your next interview, What got you excited? What was the passion? What was the fire in your belly that fueled And I guarantee you; your interviewers are going to be blown away, they're going to remember them on a level that no one else can or that And it's going to take you so much farther bring you closer to getting a job with them. That's all I have for you today my friend. I wish you well on your next interview. Now, if you need with interview questions I've got a great guide here. This is called The Complete Interview Answer And this is this is my book. I've been working on this book for over 10 It's got over 140 different types of questions questions you can expect to get on any interview. It's got basic questions like, Tell me here? It's got over 40 different behavioral answer those; the situation, the task, and It teaches you how to answer those questions I can't recommend the guide enough. And if you don't want that that's fine. I have a whole bunch of videos on YouTube But this book, you can get this from jobinterviewtools.com. It's a PDF e-book. You can download it. You can get a hard copy, just like this. It's also available in audio and video too. So if you want to get the audio version and or whatever, you can do that too. I think this is about the only interview guide and in audio and video as well. That's because it's just been around so long and it's just it's a very helpful guide. I'm sure it will help you so again I wish see you in the next video. good luck on your interview bye now if you up and make sure you subscribe to my channel a new video and by subscribing you support appreciate it make sure you hit subscribe