The War of the Ring was a conflict of huge hung in the balance, as the forces of good with the One Ring providing the impetus for Welcome to the Wizards and Warriors channel! Allow us to present the first episode of our The War of The Last Alliance is about to begin. The War of the Ring finds its origin in the Morgoth in the War of Wrath, his lieutenant Being a Maiar and thus lacking the sheer might power, Sauron used his guile and innate ability He changed his image, disguising himself as In the year 1500 of the Second Age, he used Celebrimbor and the other prominent members into forging the Rings of Power infused with There were twenty such rings, three bestowed nine to the Kings of Men who would later become However, Sauron forged his own ring in secret, upon all others. Upon learning of his treachery, the Ringbearers wore such items Sauron knew of their location The conflict called the War of the Elves began too much for the Elves. Their Kingdoms were devastated and Sauron It was at this time that Barad-Dur and the however, he failed to dominate the Dwarven The Elven king Gil-Galad was pushed all the the aid of the Men of Numenor in the year This led to the Numenorean invasion of Middle-Earth, been fielded by the race of Man in the past. The allied forces won a great victory in 1701 The forces of Sauron were driven from the While he was gathering his strength, the Elves Elrond was appointed the regent of the easternmost Meanwhile, the Numenorians reveled in their the coast of Middle-Earth, oppressing the in the process. At the same time, the sources mention their that the Men were not allowed to sail the life. This divided the Numenorian society into two to their friendship with the Elves and loyalty led by the ambitions of their monarchs slowly Sauron used the animosity between the Men the title of the Lord of the Earth and King His armies attacked the Numenorian cities the ire of the proud Numenorian king Ar-Pharazon. The latter strike back in 3261. Numenorian forces were so overwhelmingly powerful, their lord. The Numenorians walked to Barad-Dur unopposed to the island of Numenor. However, the latter soon worked his way into The foul machinations of Sauron would lead as an advisor poisoning the minds of the people an invasion of the Undying Lands in 3319. Ar-Pharazon and his mighty host landed on the Valar, who in their wrath sunk their island Nine ships of the Numenorean Faithful were led by Elendil and his two sons Isildur and When their forces were separated the majority would form the Kingdom of Gondor, with the continent to create the Kingdom of Arnor. The survivors merged with the remaining Numenoreans during the apex of Numenorean power. Sauron also survived the Downfall of Numenor, was able to flee to Mordor and retain the The two Numenorean nations in exile were linked High King and maintaining ascendancy over Two fortresses were built in the region of Minas Ithil and Minas Tirith enough of his strength in order to take physical Becoming aware of the newly established Exile them. In 3429 his armies attacked Gondor rapidly, Osgiliath. Minas Ithil was lost soon after as the cities who took the city with relative ease. While Anarion held the line in Osgiliath with rushed North to inform his father Elendil Anarion was successful in repelling the invasion of Ithilien. Taking counsel with the Elven leaders, the with Elendil and Gil-Galad providing leadership Two years were spent raising sufficient forces the Dark Lord could bring to bear. With their forces amassing at the watchtower and joining with the forces of Elrond there. From here the Great Alliance crossed the Misty Elves from Mirkwood and Lorien, as well as of Gondor led by Anarion fresh from pushing With this, the war was joined and the Alliance Dark Lord upon Middle-Earth for good and all. The first pitched battle took place at the year 3434, with supreme command of the Alliance However, this grant of command triggered the Kings of Mirkwood and Lorien Oropher and Amdir As both forces deployed their formations, possessed was their cohesion and discipline, were famed far and wide. Yet the two aforementioned kings angered by charged wildly at the immense force of Orcs and fortune by their exploits. Despite making early gains and driving the at arms, the numbers and sheer brutality of casualties among the Elves. Before long the Elves who had foolishly charged back, leaving the fate of the battle on a His plan disrupted by the folly of his comrades, errant Elven contingent with the weight of could muster. The leadership of Gil-Galad ultimately saved the forces of Sauron were decisively beaten, the remainder of the war. Yet this battle was as costly as they come, of Mirkwood and Lorien forces lost due to This left the area permanently scarred by causalities which now blighted the landscape, Marshes, an area avoided by all but the most Thranduil and Amroth would take the titles slain fathers respectively. Taking little time to regroup, Gil-Galad sensed and following the Counsel of the other leaders among them, a decision was taken. The Black Gates were besieged and soon breached now moved even further into Mordor, defeating While ultimate success was not yet guaranteed, by each victory, and with their morale soaring them. Despite severe losses, they maintained an in a plateau to the North of Mordor called Initially, attempts were made to storm Barad-Dur, the immense fortifications which Sauron had a situation. This fortress was created by the dark magic of battlement after battlement and had taken was without any shadow of a doubt the greatest The sight of it drove fear into the besiegers the victory they so desperately required to within the free realms of Middle-Earth. This fortress was also bound to the One Ring remain impossible to fully destroy it, adding such a siege could pose to Gil-Galad and Elendil. The siege would go on for seven years, with the Last Alliance. Countless sorties of Orcs were sent out to with the volleys of arrows, boulders, and harassed the attackers threatened to decimate In the Sixth year of the siege, tragedy struck a missile fired from the walls of Barad-Dur His death caused many woes among the Numenoreans This however increased the determination of those fiery plains. A year later Sauron and his forces sallied conflict and finish the siege and the Last Rows of Elven swordsmen who made up the flower most experienced and battle-hardened of the With Dwarven contingents supporting the remaining Elrond and Gil-Galad held command of the center own respective forces. The blood of Numenor still flowed freely through and as such these warriors remained exceptionally overwhelming Orcish onslaught. Despite their prowess in battle, however, The forces of Mordor surged forward in a tide to use the weight of their numerical advantage astute battle lines assembled before them. While their weapons and armour were deficient their ferocity and crazed devotion to their The battle was joined when the Orcish host forces having been thinned out by the overwhelmingly Elven archers. The lines held as the warriors of the Last an inch, as the famed discipline of the Noldor Despite the increasing pressure which was maintained, with massive casualties inflicted As the battle progressed the Last Alliance cliff before the oncoming tide, the morale seemed that victory now was within the grasp It was at this point that Sauron, in his physical from head to toe and wielding a mace alongside Making for the center of the Alliance formation who had held his servants at bay for so long. Seeing that their lines might now break, Gil-Galad on the broken slopes of Mount Doom. Despite being the finest warrior of his age the Elves, Gil-Galad's fate was sealed. Sauron had regained the entirety of his strength he was able to defeat the now exceptionally the heat of Sauron's armoured hand. Elendil rushed to Gil-Galad's aid, but he Due to the power of the Ring, two great leaders Isildur and Elrond. Just as all seemed lost Isildur scrambled Narsil, which his father had dropped following Their weapons clashed and Sauron broke Narsil The Dark Lord then reached downwards to end of the Ring, and at this point, the great in Middle-Earth surged through Isildur. Slashing wildly with his now broken sword from the Dark Lord's grasp. With the sheer weight of the blow driving to take on his ethereal aspect, Sauron was army into a rout. In the aftermath, Elrond, who was now the Host, counseled for the destruction of the Mount Doom, the only place where it could Yet Isildur had become entranced by its power the death of his father. This ultimately sundered the Last Alliance, of man and making it impossible for Barad-Dur to be vanquished forever. Taking leave of the charred plains of Mordor, was to be proclaimed High King of Arnor. Yet this was not to be. On the way, Isildur and his retinue were ambushed Isildur and his three eldest sons were slain The defeat of Sauron in the War of the Last and set the scene for his ultimate return change the fate of Middle-Earth and all who for our next documentary on the history of The next few videos in this series will be Ring, but we are planning to cover the battles universes, so make sure you have subscribed Please, consider liking and sharing, as it - we will try to read and respond to every about this video and which videos you hope This is the Wizards and Warriors channel and