What is the best sort of life for a human man lives a happier life if he's just, even rest of his life than if he is unjust and and is never caught for his crimes. Could and what difference should the question make Shakespeare's characters throw us into What do those characters have to say about we believe? And if so, what difference would and why Shakespeare whose Elizabethan English English to understand? Thomas Hobbes wrote two or three most influential works in the in western society. He was writing from that unless we gave all the power, unless king that we would all rob and kill each other. things actually work and is the question relevant Hello. My name is Jeff Brenzel at Yale University. I'm also the master which essentially means that I live with 400 and yes, it is unusual for an admissions dean decisions. I also lecture from time to time work in philosophy centers around ethics and had about something we like to call human my personal heroes, Aristotle, claimed that desires to know. For the purposes of this an intellectually curious person and that as hard as you can. You're also trying kind of capacities and abilities that you're I'm going to assume that you're not only but that you're seeking to grow in wisdom knowledge and I'm going to come back to that fact true about you then here is my advice to read some old books, even a substantial that reading the right old books in the right much less using only new ways of learning So yes, I'm a throwback. I have a somewhat your college education. What I'm going to to make a difference to your education or see if it's worthwhile and determine for what I'm claiming and what I'm not claiming. old books or that old books are better because any new books or that new books are worthless. to read some old books, but which ones would in the right way? Why should you read them your life for the better? How is that going going to make you wiser? The Dialogues Rex, the City of God, Leviathan, Dante's Peace, there are a lot of these books, but on books that by definition are outdated? up to date? Don't we know those people a little personal background here, I went family had ever graduated from college, much gone to an all Catholic, boy's high school. I never had even been on an airplane before My folks assumed that I was going or a lawyer. That is the sort of thing that like the one I attended. Doctor, lawyer, far from it. The point was that you go to equals a job. Now when I actually and almost by accident to a special freshman what is Directed Studies? In Directed Studies of western thought and philosophy, in literature classic Greeks had to say and then you roll about a century behind where we are right are no summaries. There are no Cliff Notes. was both the single most difficult and the that I've ever had. About 15 years ago I managing organizations and after earning a there today to teach in this very same program I've' gotten to know these classic works I've seen their effects on students and my own life experience and stuff that I've am ready to give you some good reasons to the first thing to point out is something might not have noticed that you know. There have much time. The Library of Congress largest library in the world. That is not is not counting the internet. It's not Wikipedia. It's not counting the entire personal level I'm 58 years-old. I've been Back home I've got a personal library of math that is about 50 books times 40 years, a week. I hope you can see the problem. which is we aren't going to make it through not going to get to 99.999% of everything Mahatma Gandhi said live as though you'll live forever. Now Gandhi was as aware as forever and of course that means that you what you choose to read, even if you live no other choice, but now it seems I've only you that with this precious time that you all the time that you're going to take some So I've enlarged, you might say, my task. So and that means the principle of having to I'd like to give you five reasons, five classic of literature or philosophy or politics. going to be decisive, but I think if you put to be quite useful. So my five criteria in the sense that I'm using the term are these. So about the human condition. From a philosophical the way we should live. From a literary imagining the possibilities for how we could tells us how we have lived. That's mark two is that the work has been a game-changer. and not only for its earliest readers, but number three is that the work has stimulated works, whether directly or indirectly. Mark best readers and the most expert critics have most important of its kind, even if those than that and even if they violently disagreed the work usually requires a strenuous effort the hard work strongly and in multiple fashions. rule in let's think about what they rule the other day. "Jeff I've just read this however good it is would not fit the criteria though my wife would be upset and I'm rather breeding does not address permanent and universal broadly informed readers and critics are not and it's not going to require a strenuous let's contrast that book with an acknowledged novels, Moby Dick. That was all about whales but otherwise it's the same sort of thing. about whale hunting, which includes an enormous mighty fable, a fable about good and evil, connections that bind people together or the the human struggle with nature in the very with our own natures as well. Though virtually ignored when it was published Moby continually grown in the estimation of the American writer is unaware of its influence work. It's a superb challenge to read. that you put into it and the older you get even less experienced readers often find it to persist with it to the very end. So here is narrator Ishmael describing mad Captain for the whale Moby Dick, the whale that cost torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle crazy Ahab, were visibly personified, and He piled upon the whale's white hump the by his whole race from Adam down; and then, his hot heart's shell upon it." Well your passions? What if some passions are about life and fate. Now he is sitting in attached to harpoons and the lines snake all the fish with the harpoon the line jumps out coil of the rope it yanks you out of the boat says: "The graceful repose of the line, before being brought into actual play- this than any other aspect of this dangerous affair. whale lines.All are born with halters round the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals of life. But if you be a truephilosopher, at heart feel one whit more of terror, than a poker, not a harpoon, by your side." So level he seems to be saying that a wise person, the ever-present possibility of death is going amid a bunch of whizzing harpoon lines than an interesting and perhaps a debatable proposition. Moby Dick. But let's say that you run last week. You wave itin the air and you book here for you. It's an instant classic, better than Moby Dick." What am I likely and your recommendation may persuade me to of you as an expert reader. Your new favorite but it hasn't changed the game as yet for or influenced lots of other works. How could readers are going to evaluate it over time. to see the book over time. In fact, you'll these criteria that I've been talking about going to be fewer in number. They're actually fair. You're just defining classics or a way that there can only be a few of them that, you haven't made any effort yet to reading these books? What is my payoff going to put into them? So hang onto your do promise to come back to it, but let's have, way too many books and not nearly enough biggest bang for your reading dollar and for week or something that stood the centuries fact spawned a great deal of what you'll a classic as an old book that has been through ideas and something that you can expect to You sort of knew this already right, so before we talk about what good it's going course. Socrates was a philosopher who lived before the birth of Christ. You've probably about him. You may also know that the other he went around asking a lot of challenging with questions about their actions and their Well it's a remarkable fact that for the western tradition have been able to avoid Socrates and his life and his death. It's never actually wrote down a single word. He lived in poverty. He lived a very simple prominent citizens with his questions. He he understood himself to have over the other certain that he was completely ignorant they They imagined that they had acquired some to find out what it was and if they actually one of the young aristocrats who got a big town was a young wrestler named Plato, maybe a series of dialogues after Socrates died The early dialogues do seem to reflect for these difficult questions that no one can begins to use Socrates as a mouthpiece or questions that Plato himself began to ask give you some indication of how expert readers and its central importance in the tradition, Alfred North Whitehead once said that all series of footnotes to Plato. Quite a claim with Socrates that inspired all of Plato's dialogue with Socrates as the hero is a dialogue to formulate two basic fundamental and universal for a human being and beyond that what is under which human beings could live that kind the first mark of greatness that I was discussing, and universal questions, ones that might puzzle book opens with a really terrific argument it's the just or the unjust person who gets a very sarcastic and very aggressive young notion that justness is a virtue: "Listen might is right and that justice as you call of the stronger. There are different forms to their own interests, which they deliver punish whoever breaks these laws and they mean to say when I say that in all states is neither more, nor less than the interest has the ultimate power the only reasonable one principle of so-called justice, which to be in the interest of the stronger." So before, that might makes right, that justice just in a society is just whatever the people surprised if you hadn't because it's a the dorms of any good colleges down through in the debates of the very best philosophers. Now even this relatively simple opening framing and Socrates, but essentially Socrates tries we distinguish between good rulers and bad shepherds and bad shepherds or good boat captains act in the best interests of the sheep and of their boats and passengers, so a ruler, named a ruler is someone who acts in the best don't. So it's the same for rulers as shepherds. A ruler who is rightly called that the ruler rules in the interests of the herself. Thrasymachus calls this dribble. for the sheep. He is simply fattening them foolish Socrates, he says, that the just is First of all, in private matters wherever will find that the unjust man always gains in their dealings with the government when more and the unjust man less on the same amount received the one gains nothing, the other come into office there is the just man neglecting but he will not compensate himself out of he is hated by his friends and acquaintances Now all of this is reversed in the case Thrasymachus goes on to say, the best life tyrant who can take anything that he wishes and obedience, so not only is being a tyrant tyrants if only they could." Now Socrates some verbal and logical tricks that I'm not outwitted Thrasymachus stalks off from the what Socrates does at that point in the dialogue look away from justice in the State, but look internal integrity of a person and he gets like self control, that if you're not in and vices and so forth that you can't be on the path to the notion that justice is he brings it back to the example of the State that this is how justice works in the individual then you have to agree with me that the tyrant the best ordered State or the State that is discussed." But the young friends of and they take up the core question, but in prove to them the just person is always happier person no matter how poor, deprived, disgraced how wealthy, honored and completely unharmed of the Republic is Plato's attempt to answer questions. In the course of it he draws psychology. He speculates on the nature the ideal State and he polishes it all off the ultimate nature of reality. Along the and women, how to raise and educate children human beings to investigate questions of all himself had a brilliant student named Aristotle, in a number of different ways, but was certainly give you a very quick notion of how things and Aristotle's thinking and in fact, for very much alive in Greece and Rome for 400 that for many centuries more. If you happen the very concepts and ideas that form the owe a great deal to Plato and Aristotle. Virtually God, about human nature, about human fulfillment like to call the marriage of Jerusalem and thinking. One big moment for this process Aristotle, four centuries after Christ when work in the history of western thought, a this book just as the Roman Empire is collapsing Augustine was very influenced by platonic familiar directly with Plato's works and a very long time. In fact, if you're knowledgeable Christian theology you'll know that Augustine Then another 800 years after St. Augustine Aquinas rediscovers many of the lost works he puts together the thought of Aristotle a new synthesis for Christian thinking and is for the most part, what the Roman Catholic Aquinas is the primary orthodox theologian poet Dante who lives one generation after work and as one of the three or four greatest view of human nature, fulfillment and human about hell, purgatory and heaven. You've now fast forward another 250 years and we in Germany. Now Luther gets very angry about Catholic Church. He goes back and rips Aquinas for his inspiration to the game-changing works this Luther also starts a process that splinters hundred or so years after Luther we have John takes his inspiration from the reforming of he writes the greatest epic poem in the English picture, the Protestant picture of human nature, if you happen to be a Catholic and you believe thing always and everywhere and has from the Protestant and you believe that all of your reading of New Testament texts in either case teachings of the Catholic Church or the very the words of the Bible, the scripture results among ideas that involve Plato, Aristotle, Luther and Milton. Here is a very Many Christians believe that Satan, the that he was the highest of all the angels rebelled against God in heaven before the tempted our first parents, Adam and Eve to this sin was passed down as an original sin two beginning parents. They also think that in the scripture, that you could go into the is actually remarkably little in the Hebrew not happen to include these beliefs. Satan he, is actually a much later invention and or even fully identified with the serpent the fruit until four centuries after the life who Satan becomes and the picture that you angel, a war in heaven between the good angels that John Milton imagined for us when he published been said that we all live on the thoughts this is probably true. So we should stop between knowledge and wisdom. It's one if you believe what I've said, that Satan into our imagination, our collective western was trying to work out salvation history and transformation in the year 1667. So Whether and how you take them to be important, view of religion or your own religious beliefs only creates a question about what to do with knowledge makes you think about some other Plato and Aristotle exert influences in many that are taking place in the western history Socrates enters very strongly into Soren Kierkegaard's is the godfather of existentialism. Ultimately like Heidegger and Sartre. Socrates also encounter gave shape to Friedrich Nietzsche's Nietzsche actually seeks to try to undo what had bequeathed to western civilization. So thought without running into Plato and Socrates read a thinker who hasn't been influenced way as well as the way that they actually best sort of life for a human being and what sort of life can be lived. So the Republic It still fuels encounters. It still provokes just as much as Socrates provoked them in to teach us. It has something to connect It's something that has made our society might say that Plato and his inspiration Socrates on this rather quick dash through the centuries to answer, which is, so what. Why does it haven't said what good it's going to do why it would be better to read the Republic particularly given how little time for reading I'm trying to get to that. All I've done calling a classic and why I'm calling it that. ready way to define the kind of book that briefly my criteria for a classic. Plato's nailed. One, the work addresses permanent Two, the work has been a game-changer. It in people's perspectives over time. Three, directly or indirectly many other important and critics over time have valued the work nothing else among themselves at all, but gave you for a classic that the work takes but rewards it in multiple ways. What is that got to do with something being a classic? to read or to cut to the chase in regarding to dig into Plato's Republic at all? Why can't I read the Cliff Notes version or look on my neighbor's notes? Why won't important for me to take away from the book? that all these other people have read it, or another? What is the takeaway? If I just the things that you've told me about Plato to the way that I practice my religion and all? So let's try to take these some specific examples will help, but the out to be important. So let's stop for So for one thing Plato occupied a very universe than we do. The Greeks lived in lots and lots of Gods. They subscribed to ethic and beyond that these epic poems of of like their popular culture. That's stories and they shared that with each other, understand Plato you have to travel back in strange world and you have to understand that Plato was exceptionally clever and his work enormous amount of logical give and take. some of it is actually meant to confuse you. you enough that he'll force you to work more deeply about something than you had done begins to embarrass you with these questions. things Plato is and therefore, his thought though Plato is talking about lots of everyday pilots and there is things like that and even entertaining and humorous as well as from to express new thoughts and in order to express using language and in fact he pushes language the limits of what you can express and understand, get you to realize this, but that means forcing giving you strange and difficult things to path by which Plato creates the language in actually talking about. His language or the just man it's used in one sense in sense in another place. What is he trying aware of the way that language changes and listening I hope to your own political leaders there, in addition to the language, things things going on as well. Sometimes the personal between people or the emotions that they're the discussion that they're having. It and realize he is not just talking about disembodied He knows that people are situated in lives other than the answers to philosophical questions. ironical. Now what does that mean? That someone or the beliefs that someone has while their actions or their beliefs or their language times. I've never had a student who thought student finish with Plato without understanding but think about it for a minute. What do really great work of the human mind just as and difficult about any important action in or government or whatever complicated field recognize that I'm not saying that the classics difficult. Frankly, there are a lot of very never recommend you read in a thousand years, with the lasting influence and the biggest They're not challenging because the writers because they're the best attempts to make a very complicated world. All right, challenge. Dante is a challenge. Shakespeare read them myself? Why can't somebody just me what is relevant and give me the takeaways? critic Mortimer Adler put it this way: "But, are too difficult for most of us in school our education from secondary teachers and great books are likely to require more effort digests cannot be substituted for the originals, cannot get the same thing out of them. There true learning is strewn with rocks, not roses, great books can be read by every person. In to read, but they are in another sense the reader because they are the most instructive." bigger bang for your dollar." "Obviously, the sense of with the least effort. Even I mean that these books reward every degree maximum." So what Adler is trying to is difficult doesn't mean that the time fact that any amount of time that you spend be more valuable to you than the same amount quality. You might different levels of reading the road in studying this subject than someone book it should be something that rewards even reader in some important ways and in fact make those rewards available even to beginning in a context where you have a guide and a that guide, but what Adler wants us to understand fact that in the case of works of the mind time and study that you're going to give You might say they have a higher interest you're going to be exposed to in the rest these books are not just rewarding, but they can't. That is they're going to reward It's a big claim. If he is right then of necessity that is the principle of having with your limited and precious time. You way I'm advising, but is he right? So you five takeaways that is five valuable things out of these books and takeaway with you to also to your own life. Number one, the not actually outdated. The entire period consisted of people rediscovering a bunch them a new application. So point number valuable. Number two, the value of making under the sun than what you might think and to another in a tradition also gives you a and what problems seem to have heavily resisted answers. The one that we've been considering talk is one of those. What is the best sort that you'll be asking yourself as you try to get a job, where am I going to live, who my children. These are questions that are You're also going to discover that this has suddenly delivered a fantastic new answer. question for a long time and looking at some between the ways people originally asked these you a perspective on what has been solved, and what remains for you to consider and actually life. The third thing is that great books number of great minds who don't share any about with Plato. It's a different culture, a different politics. Call this the value perspective on what you believe, but I'm going creativity. So the fourth value here up your intellectual muscle power. You are right, by whipping all the little kids in If you're going to be a better wrestler bloody by going up against people who are then finally, five, there is the value of choices. Once you've encountered and wrestled going to be in a much better position yourself out what is worthwhile for your time from 99.99% of the reading material and you're able or having to consult past experts. You books. You're going to be able to do it book influenced or will it influence. You're judgment on your own. So let's dig and outdated ideas, forgotten ideas. A couple a classic work in political economy. It's Now the basic idea is that populations can collapse because of limited resources, famine in a lot of very interesting ways and actually and the development of the theory of evolution. the game-changing nature of this work economists generally held that Malthus was wrong. Why, die back in the eighteenth century. He thought with our population and that nothing could he did not take into proper account were the creativity that would find a way around resource of the 1970s and if you go back and look for came very much back into view. Why, because out. The world's population had doubled it was going to be set to double again, so when you increase the population past the if you Google the name Malthus you're going His fundamental ideas are once again at damage, global population, the prospects for with titles such as The Future in Plain Sight, are everywhere and his work is being invoked prove Malthus right in the end. Here for new insights. In ancient Greece Aristotle or for short the Ethics. It's actually takes to be a happy person. Now we don't a work on happiness. We think about ethics what we're called upon to perform despite Aristotle had a different perspective on this. and you may have heard this idea that virtue that make you an excellent parent, the things the things if pursued consciously and done words, that there is a dedication to excellence are required for us to live well and do well human beings to be happy. This goes these and psychologists all over the world are studying encountered some of this material, perhaps for human happiness. Aristotle actually to that debate. This same example point I was making about takeaways, that you ideas, so ideas of human happiness and psychological is a big industry these days and I've made something to contribute and from a different Aristotle was also a biologist. In fact, around dissecting animals. He made lots come a very long way since Aristotle and our to go to Aristotle except as a historian of in this story to learn something about biology. very different sense of what progress consists what even our notion of progress might mean happiness. Are there really new messages to be happy? My third value or takeaway Now this one is a little harder to explain, traveled. People like to travel. Some feel like they learn from traveling, particularly that good travelers, people who have done society to really learn something about it from that are two things. One is that they're from our own and they're struck by the different that we suddenly discover we've made a lot an assumption about our lifestyle or an assumption about how people are going to get those things society at all and of course it might make actually the best way of doing it, might I wouldn't notice what was going on so strongly what is strange pops out to us, but the intriguing own society from a significant encounter with their own society looks a little strange. some of the assumptions that they were making, were doing or how they were living suddenly said I never really understood America until and visited or I never understood China until I didn't realize that people could think that I do and this gave me a new perspective is something, by the way, that Americans are spots, not being able to see how many assumptions government, about the world in part because speaking and Americans don't travel, don't some parts of the world do. Well great books the value of strangeness. Let's consider have been paying attention you might have thinkers or writers up to this point and in until very recent times very few women had the kind of encouragement to engage in this kind of reading as they are today, so you have entered this long conversation. Why, Jane Austen was a brilliant novelist. She with a fine brush on very small pieces of kept her subject matter very confined and and the ways of life and the marriage and of the late 1700s. Now it's very unlikely about the ways of life that were current among is just what makes encountering them valuable valuable for she knows this world and these clever and devastating observer of the human these people occupied and the ways in which other author is ever going to reveal. Of one of Jane Austen's male characters she heroine of the story, was of course only too too good for them he was very earnest in the Emily Dickinson. Now Emily Dickinson was the United States has produced. She had to show us consisting primarily of the workings exceptionally focused and intense. It "Parting is all we need to know of heaven It was Dickinson, a virtual recluse who and is all we need of hell." She also And also this, "An ear can break a human the ear had not a heart, so dangerously near." to a mind and a heart that simply does not mine, but she knows yours and she knows her about a classic that is outside of western is a foundational work in Chinese civilization are returning to, to examine with new eyes. and social relationships and the way that a more profound sense of family and social and not only that. He was capable of quite people. You've probably noticed that I've philosophy or eastern literature, but that the chance to dip into it in the ways that Confucius because there are some strong parallels that I'm very familiar with. Here are us: "People, he said, can be forced to forced to understand what they do. An inferior to do, but he can be quite useful doing something at doing elementary things, but extraordinary be attempted." Now Confucius' mind like Dickinson's and like Austin's can that we're familiar with and the ways that that the value of an education and isn't world is seeking, the world of business, the of the arts, even the world of academia? Aren't strange and different and creative perspectives? these great and classic works maybe among offer us? My fourth value involved building ways that you're going to tackle increasingly this one requires illustration so much as get to the Olympics by training with weaklings they've been written be geniuses. That with because so many have. The good news to understand them. Thank God or I wouldn't the saying "she got to where she is by standing the giants. Master the skills that it takes going to see quite a distance. You'll prepared, better prepared to grapple with for the fifth value I said that to the extent successfully you'd be a better judge of Shakespeare. Now many of the greatest critics across cultures and across boundaries have that is whatever his flaws, whatever the weaknesses no one, no literary giant has ever written imaginatively about the human condition than literary critic where I work and teach here the invention of the human and he meant by like Falstaff and Hamlet and King Leer quite modern sense of what it means to be a human of his hundreds of memorable characters, men to their life situations in ways that we couldn't on what truly motivates each of us. So in his comedies and in his tragedies you're whether or not they're capable of doing to be drawn onto read them and if they're you've got a better standard against which in order to be a better reader of literature but there is no better route both for the what else to read or for the kinds of things Let's say that you're persuaded of these away from these works if you include some The question still remains. Do I think ever reading any of them? Of course I do, miserable and unhappy people because most of works, but that's not exactly the right the one posed to you. Could your life be authors into it and how so? Though believe that there are some things that you Plato I don't think I've been yet able to to get out of reading Plato that you can't or reading some summary or some digest, but out. Think about it like this. I shared I shared an experience a number of years as well in the Boy Scouts. We hiked. We families in the troop, lots of other adults wonderful, but then we came to a point in skills where were prepared to introduce them a two week wilderness expedition, something these young men before. I was very excited. my son to have the same experience as I had, He said. "We'll have to carry twice before, including the food." "The food going to have to purify every single drop figure out our own trail." "It's going probably spend some time getting lost." weeks, not a couple of days and the hiking injured and there is going to be bugs." this that I can't get from the hiking and liked perfectly fine and which we did without good questions, I tried to appeal to his sense he'll learn useful stuff about surviving nature from a new perspective. He said he wilderness and that he could get all the perspective Channel. So I finally said you know I don't going to get out of this. You have to experience I guess I'm just asking you to trust me on skeptical company among the other scouts in this expedition, things began to deteriorate. blisters. People were hungry. The boys getting along and my son is looking at me but then the boys started to toughen up. The mountains. They started to rely on each camp efficiently. They figured out how to for the day, how to keep from blistering and during which there was a fair amount of complaining. from the tree line we're on top of the highest New Mexico Rockies. You could see forever. and trace the entire path that we had taken because of how high we were up. We were my son came over to me and he said, "Hey is fantastic." I said, "I know." And it." And I said, "What do you mean?" fantastic thing that we've ever done together." a much more arduous, a much more difficult in our scouting experience? So like that has given him a permanent interest that was also the element of the experience that I made together by virtue of having the experience In one sense of course the great books are another sense the most readable both for the the most instructive and that is the keyword. most readable in the sense of with the least that these books reward every degree of effort is something else to think about and it's beyond the five takeaways that I gave you these books. You're going to encounter to know and things that you need to learn at all. You've learned many of these things but that didn't change who you were as a you're going to be in the same position been talking about in this lecture as the the daytrip, maybe cooked breakfast at the said at the beginning that Aristotle said Well just as it's our nature to work, remember how I said that wisdom is something final thought for you and it's a deep paradox what you are looking for until you find it turns you into a different person than the and that's why reading these great works that my son had of a wilderness expedition than what you can get on the low lying ground. radical new perspective, when it's not just and knowledge, but it's a matter of changing a matter of changing who you are as a result in for instance, these books and you're there is also a reason of course here to start the choice to include them in some of your going to need some serious guidance and some new kind of mountainous terrain and you're these game-changing, person-changing kinds trying to make the connections between these studying and that you're learning about there is another reason to dive into these fact that you could use a guide and that's thing about them, which is as you age they be the same book for you at age 50 that it going to hit you the same way at age 40 that of odd. We don't think about going back might say acquired or put into our storehouse books to change just because we read them one of the interesting things about the kinds in the materials for this lecture is that is just the same as it has always been. The What has changed is you and what you find to these books. That is they are operating new zone of experience or a new zone of reflection that you're capable of making between things creating new ways of looking at things yourselves great is they keep talking to you. They back to them. There is no more inexhaustible intellectual development and excitement than you the only answer that I really can, the It's the same answer I gave my son. You most strenuous effort. You give it everything the view. It's the view. Thank you very