- How you doing, I'm Matt. Today I wanna talk to you about the five essential router bits I think every beginner woodworker needs to have in their toolbox. A router is one of those tools that is an essential woodworking tool once you get started in You use it so much and it is such a versatile tool. It's probably one of the most Before we're get into those router bits, I wanna talk to you a little because if you don't know about I think you probably wanna about the router you need, right? So these are your basic two you are gonna be choosing from if you're buying a router A palm router, or also and then also a plunge router. This can also be a fixed base router. This router actually comes with two bases, so you get the best of both worlds, a fixed base and a plunge base. So just because a router is fixed base doesn't mean you can't adjust the depths. You can adjust the It just depends on a plunge router means you can plunge it into the Where a fixed base it's It's at a fixed depth, You don't wanna adjust that Whereas a plunge base, you plunge it into the This is a trim router, it's trimming the edges of with the profile bits that But if you want to cut dados you're gonna want to step because I've tried to cut dados with this. And while I was able to it didn't like it at all. It would quit halfway through the cut, different things like that. It's just not made for that type of work. I picked this one, because Jonathan Katz-Moses and I trust his opinion. So this is the one I went with. I'll drop a link in the description below to both of these routers, but this is the one if if I only can have one in the shop, this will do everything 'cause this is a more powerful router. And the great thing about this router is it can do both 1/4 which means you can use The shank on them are 1/2 which is great, it gives Both of these routers are variable speed. As you can see, you can make them go slower. You want that in a router. Both these routers come I would highly recommend getting a router with an edge guide, it makes your life much easier. You can insert the edge and then that way you can or whatever from the edge of the work. Couple of really quick safety tips. If you're using a router, there's a direction you have to make it go or it's not gonna work right. When the router's between you wanna move it from left to right. That's because of the or the bit is spinning. If you move it the other way, it'll basically crawl down the wood, because that's the way that blade is, or the bit is spinning. When you go the opposite you're actually cutting into the wood, which is what you want. I accidentally go the wrong way sometimes and you'll feel it kind of move on you. You don't want that, go the other way. If you're gonna go all the way around, if we're doing a round-over left to right, and then up here you're because if you go this direction up here it's just gonna walk you down the board. One thing I did early on was buy some very cheap router bits, because I was broke and I was So I actually bought some, like a three set of It was very cheap, but They leave a rough edge. They burn the wood. They're not worth your money. It's better just to go for the one bit versus the because you're gonna 'cause you're not gonna I have links in the description below to both Whiteside and If you buy them on tatetools.com you can use code 731CMT10, The first bit we're gonna talk round-over bits come in various sizes from 1/8 all the way up to a lot. This one's a 3/8, this is a 1/8. I'm gonna show you how to do those first. The second bit we're I think the round-over and the chamfer are the staples of woodworking. You need a round-over, you need a chamfer. And then the next three but these are the two Chamfer bits come in all shapes and sizes as far as the angle they how long of an angle they cut. This is a good, happy medium. I'll put links in the description If you're wanting to off of something like a cutting board or a tray or a tabletop, then the 1/8 inch is excellent for that. If you want to make a more round edge, then this 3/8 inch round-over a nice big round-over. This is a square piece of wood. It has really sharp edges on it. (gentle music) As you can see, it just put a that gives it a nice, smooth edge. It gives it a finished feel. If you're building furniture and you leave that sharp edge it's gonna cut people or it's This is a good way just to finish that up. Now, let me show you the 3/8 Now you see the difference There's quite a big difference there. It just depends on the And let me show you what else So if you have a round-over bit and you want to create something that doesn't look like a round-over, all you have to do is raise the bit. See that profile, how Let me show you what that looks like. So that just gives you another You can round it over, but you can also put that profile or that detail into the edge of a tabletop and it kind of looks really, kind of? It looks really cool. I put the fixed base on this DeWalt router just to show you that it actually it raises and We've got a 45 degree You can get them in different degrees, but 45 degrees is the most common. A lot of people who are are not fans of round-over bits. They say the 80s called and they want their edge profile back. So it's a more traditional, So you won't actually notice a on the edges when you're rounding over or chamfering the wood. Where you'll notice the is when you're cutting grooves into wood. Nice, clean chamfered edge. You can tell the difference down here is where that round-over was, where I use that kind of a profile on it. That's a chamfered edge. It's gonna give you a more modern look on your finished edge. This video's brought to Go check out our online store. We have easy to follow build plans to help you make awesome projects. We also have merchandise and for you to check out also. Number three is straight bits. Straight bits are another essential, which is why we got five essentials. These things are awesome for cutting dados and grooves in wood, such as when I put tabletops on I use a 1/8 inch straight bit for these tabletop fasteners. This is the bit you need for that. It just works great. Also, this big old fat 3/4 inch bit, this thing will cut a groove This is how I install T-tracks, using a 3/4 inch straight Now, you can set it to 3/8 inch deep, it is 3/4 inches wide. That's how big 99% of You're gonna route that in there and this is what you Number four on the list, flush trim bits. These things are super And you're gonna want some Now, why would you want a flush trim bit? A couple of reasons. If you lay a veneer or something you can take the flush trim bit, similar to what we're gonna and make sure everything is flush. Now, there's three different One has a bearing on the bottom. In other words, it's gonna be hanging out of the router like that. This one like we're gonna be cutting with has the bearing on top. And I don't have one, but there are that have The reason you'd want a bearing on the top is similar to this application, you want it to follow and cut the piece on bottom. The one that has the obviously it'll follow so it just helps keep everything flush. All right, as you see here, I've got this piece of 1/4 inch plywood laminated to this piece of pine. We're gonna trim that so The bearing's gonna roll and it's gonna trim the plywood. So that's the game plan. See where the bearing's making and now the actual bit As you can see, this is perfectly that it's laminated to, It makes things flush. Last, but certainly not And that's probably gonna if you know about routers and because not a lot of people's but I do. Let me tell you why. This dovetail bit will allow like I have on the channel. I've created this cross cut using a dovetail bit. I created this jointing/tapering jig using the dovetail bit. Also, I was able to create, thanks to Mike Taylor and his design, this mini workbench This dovetail bit is so handy you'll be able to create and that's why I love it so much. If you liked this project, it's gonna take you to You're gonna like seeing how and why you need one. Also, another one of my If you click one of those two boxes, you get a big old virtual fist bump. Thank you for watching.