44 million people in this country don't know where their next meal Almost 40% of the food in the country, an estimated 90 billion pounds What a missed opportunity. We really need to create visibility into where the food is and where it's going next, and data more effectively so that the food moves before it becomes waste It's not a problem of food scarcity. There's plenty of food available in this It's more one of logistics. I'm Stephanie Zidek. I'm the vice president of Data What are you looking for? Maybe we'll keep some people out for our cars. My wife and I met just about 13 years ago, we had a son here three years ago of becoming parents The joys and the challenges too. Aha! The engine! I think one of the things is not having to get in the car to go Primoz's school is really just down the street. We walk over there and as he's grown, we sort of went from stroller to scooter to bike and now he's cruising down the street It's just kind of a nice freedom. Data is really something that's just kind of always I worked in the insurance industry but I knew that I wasn't really leveraging I was really looking for an opportunity to work at a nonprofit that was addressing After a bit of searching, Feeding America is the largest We are a national network and partner agencies receiving donations And we are all working together Our vision is to see an America It's a real challenge and that Feeding America and our network Are we going to be open today? We'll be open at noon. Open at noon? Yes, ma'am. The Friendship Center is a food pantry We offer fresh food full choice a hot meal once a week. We're on pace to serve about 65,000 folks with distributing about It's important that food pantries because not everyone either to make it to a grocery store. Alright, Well I'm going to grab a cart, okay? And then we can go around and do a shop. Yeah? Yeah. All right. Awesome! I've been in the social services field I retired about three years ago, and I still feel that So I just came and signed up They love us. The food that we get and be able Our van driver just dropped this off from his first food And as you can see, You got, you know, different types would have probably gone Because it just got delivered today. Going to end up on our shelves in an hour and in 2 hours it'll be home with someone Even though I only come twice a month, The volunteers are great and I'm very grateful for it. They can come in, they can get connected and they can start to build a life a steady access As we've grown as an organization, of understanding of the value Some of the folks from Google We partnered with them to their Google Data Commons accessible tens of thousands So this is one of the dashboards that we helped create for food banks Food banks have the ability to analyze who their top donors or vendors are, and who their top pantries and agencies You know, what's really incredible that it's all supported So that's really the infrastructure to create these types of visuals and have really easy access As we really think about the future, right now is how can we leverage the Gen free form text descriptions for millions and millions of transactions into categories that we can analyze? I think there's a lot of good to come AI to support our work. Hey, Justin. So good to see you. Yeah, for sure. And then you can see yesterday This is just for the distribution 280 people? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. This all filters up to Feeding America. So you can look at it at a national what's the quality and quantity of food across the country so... That's certainly the goal. Yeah. Yeah. You want to do mine? Yeah, you can do mine. No problem. Good job. I think it's ready to come out. Oh, boy. I think about the millions of children who are facing hunger. It hits different And you think about how hard Do you want a pear or an apple or both? Both! Both? Ten years from now, I do think we will have made a difference Sometimes it takes data to make people and what are the opportunities I'm really excited about the possibilities When I see people lining up for food, sometimes as early as seven in the morning. My heart goes out to them. All right. Two items from here. When we talk about feeding our neighbors, There's an immense sense of pride knowing that I'm contributing So that gives me hope At the end of the day, but we are doing this to serve people who are probably having an awful How much more can I ask for a part of that work to support