- On a remote island in the Pacific Ocean, a sprawling US airfield For decades, the four runways at the northern edge of Tinian sat empty, swallowed up by the jungle, but now, urgent work is Military crews are clearing to unearth the runways in The US hasn't needed this base in decades, but the threat of a conflict And Beijing has developed weapons capable of striking a vast array of targets. So the Air Force is adapting. The work on this island is that will form part of a key shift in America's military blueprint. - So what my team had to do find these coordinates on a GPS, and mark them for the Normally what we have is a stick or machete to be able to tear down and make a pathway through the jungle. And this is what part of the battle that we fought every day to mark these points the through the humidity - [Niharika] Sergeant Branson's through the dense forest on Tinian. On some days they cleared areas the size of multiple until Tinian's runways were uncovered. - Over the last 60 days it's really... What they have opened It's crazy how fast they've done it. - [Niharika] Major Rothschild's team is tasked with clearing from the runways. - This is runway Charlie, and when we got here, and to your right, it As you can see now, it's completely opened up. And our team is really just to successfully adaptively, rehabilitate these runways And that'll really be a part of history for not only Tinian, of Tinian itself, and really - Once one of the busiest Tinian's runways hosted large that struck targets in The atomic bombs the and Nagasaki were loaded here. In the decades after the and the US no longer needed (missile launched) That era has ended. U.S. officials believe China to carry out an invasion of Taiwan. Beijing sees the island that it has vowed to by force, if necessary. To deter China and prepare the U.S. is turning to an approach called &quot;Agile This means that if the U.S.' its aircraft could fan out to As part of ACE, the U.S. has the region that could be capable including a longer string of islands known as the Second Island Chain. That includes civilian runways The Air Force needs these sites to have at least 7,000 feet of runway. These airfields form a new some of which will be clustered around larger existing hubs Should war with China break out, the Air Force would scatter aircraft from its larger hubs across the region. The strategy is designed to threaten the U.S.' larger bases. This video released by the Chinese Air Force launching a simulated to be Andersen Air Force Base on Guam. As the U.S.' main airbase Andersen is crucial to America's ability to project power in the Indo-Pacific. This base on Guam would be for the U.S. in any and that makes it a significant target. To better protect Guam, the military plans to have a incorporating THAAD, (missile launches) But even the most advanced defense systems might not be enough to stop an attack. So there's a new focus on to take out by dispersing them. - What we're looking at for to take logistics from the hub, whether that's personnel, cargo, aircraft, move them to another location, an austere location normally, or a different area, and So can you spoke out and then have a sustaining and then be able to come back to the hub or use the hub to supply your logistics. - [Niharika] The need for from dramatic advances Beijing has rapidly expanded That includes the DF-26, an intermediate range as the &quot;Guam Killer&quot; and China's also believed to be developing hypersonic to reach the Second Island Chain. Unlike a traditional ballistic missile which follows a predictable trajectory, hypersonic missiles can making them much harder to shoot down. That means Andersen is at risk. So the Air Force is building more options to spread out aircraft. On the island's Northwest are being built and disused to expand the number of landing sites. - We wanna stay flexible, stay agile, and make sure that we can And this is just another You know, two is better than So just increasing our and allowing different and improve the overall capability here on Andersen Air Force - [Niharika] The work on Guam and revival of Tinian's forgotten airfield next door are part of an immense to remote corners of the Pacific. The result will be a contingency strategy on a sweeping scale. America left this airfield to the jungle, confident it was no longer needed. Soon it may be a vital (violin music)