The Hawker Hurricane, often overshadowed by the sleek and slender Spitfire, it was in many ways Britain's greatest fighter of World War II. While most of the glory went to the Spitfire, the robust and dependable Hurricane did most of the work. Never considered a world beater, it had that remarkable quality of being just good enough, and sometimes better. At the time of Britain's greatest crisis, hurricanes withstood the onslaughts from Germany, Italy and Japan. Like the American B-39, B-40 and F-4F Wildcat, it was one of the early fighters that manned the ramparts and turned the enemy aside. precarious years it held the line and bought the Allies valuable time. Without it, Britain would certainly have lost the war. Indeed, the Hurricane flew and fought in more campaigns on more fronts and in more countries than any other aircraft of World War II. From the first day to the last, the Hurricane was there. This is the story of the remarkable Hawker Hurricane. Germany, 1933. Hitler and his group of thugs take power. The armament soon follows. Hitler orders new fighters and bombers for the newly formed Luftwaffe. Tanks, submarines and battleships soon follow. Europe, fearing another war, reacts cautiously. In Britain, calls for a massive rearmament program are shouted down by those seeking appeasement. Just as Hitler begins to consolidate his grip on power, Sidney Camm, Hawker's chief designer, opens discussions with the Air Ministry for a new monoplane fighter, developed from the Fury biplane. Official support proves elusive, but Hawker's board backs their chief designer and approves development of the Fury monoplane as a private venture. Estimated to have a top speed of just 280 miles per hour, the Fury monoplane is soon abandoned. In October 1934, Rolls-Royce announces the development of the PV-12 liquid-cooled engine, the Merlin prototype. Sydney Cam is forced to abandon the Fury and creates a new aircraft capable of handling 1,000 horsepower. The Hawker Interceptor monoplane is born. 1934. The RAF is still largely equipped with fabric-covered biplane fighters and bombers. Steel and aluminium have replaced wood, but the fabric, struts and open cockpits remain. German rearmament accelerates. In response, the British government votes to triple the number of frontline combat aircraft. The move to the modern all-metal monoplane aircraft is however slow. February 21st, 1935. The Air Ministry places an order with Hawker for the first hurricane prototype. For Hawker's designers, the temptation to embrace the new stressed skin construction technique is tempered by the need to produce the fighter in great numbers. The methods that have served them since World War I would have to be used. As a result, the new Hurricane is constructed using established concepts, modified to suit the new requirement. Mike Potter, founder of Vintage Wings, an organisation dedicated to the preservation and restoration of historic aircraft, sees a link between the Hurricane and Hawker's earlier biplanes. We also have under restoration a Hawker Fury of the early 30s era. And they're not on the same hangar at the present time, but the Fury under restoration, fuselage and the hurricane, if we put them side by side, you'd be hard-pressed, except for the 50% difference in size, to see which airplane it belonged to. So the hurricane fuselage really does hark back to a post-First World War construction technique. The decision to go with the old-style biplane construction was to hasten mass production, and in that sense it was probably a good choice. They needed to get the contract and they needed to produce fighters. One of the advantages is that the airplane is very inspectable and maintainable. You can almost take the sides off this fuselage with a screwdriver and getting inside of it is a lot easier than it is with a conventional monocoque airplane that's built like an egg. But it is also labor-intensive. The interior steel structure is surrounded by a wooden structure which is surrounded by fabric over most of the airplane, and that takes a lot of different materials and skill sets. Work on Hawker's monoplane fighter is swift. Nine months later, on November 6th, the first hurricane takes flight. Three months later, a top speed of 328 miles per hour is attained, making it the world's first fighter to exceed 300 miles per hour in level flight. On June 3rd, 1936, the Air Ministry orders 600 hurricanes. 1937, the RAF's last biplane fighter enters service, two years after the first flight of the hurricane. As a bunk plane fighter, the Gloster Gladiator is well equipped, with an enclosed cockpit and four.303 inch Browning machine guns. Its overall performance, however, is well below that of the Hurricane. Fortunately for the RAF, there were more Hurricanes in service than Gladiators at the outbreak of the war. Norfold, 1938. Number 111 squadron is the first RAF unit to receive the new hurricane. Here we see them showing off their new mounts for the cameras. Though excited to take them into the air, new pilots still had to be vigilant during their first flights. The hurricane's not the easiest aeroplane to fly. It requires a little bit of technique and I was surprised at how much work there is. Perhaps easiest to start on the ground because it almost misleads you. On the ground, the Hurricane is a very well-behaved airplane. The gear is wide, the field of view over the nose is good enough that you can almost see where you're going. You still S-turn as you always do in a tailwheel airplane, but the sense of the airplane at first is very forgiving and conventional, and I had pretty high expectations. When you first get it into the air, the hurricane requires a fair amount of attention. The controls are a little bit stiff in terms of friction. It certainly doesn't give you the impression of being a terribly stable airplane, and I was surprised that it's almost impossible to trim the airplane off so that you can release your hands from the controls in a So the result was that it felt a little wobbly. The first Hurricane Mark 1s were equipped with the two-bladed, fixed-pitch Watts propeller and fabric-covered wings. This caused some early problems. During high-speed dives, the wing gun panels would partially blow out. Gun heating was also a problem, with guns freezing at heights above 15,000 feet. By 1939, the old Watts propeller was replaced by the de Havilland, or Grotel, constant speed units. Stressed-skin metal wings were also being manufactured. These wings would replace the original fabric models on both the production line and all existing Hurricanes. Hurricane designer Cam and Spitfire designer R.J. Mitchell took vastly different directions when designing the wings of their respective aircraft. The Spitfire and the Hurricane came from different design precedents, where the parts that were used and the design philosophy in the Hurricane came from the old Hawker biplanes. In fact, the interior wing construction is very similar to the way they were on the Fury and those. The Spitfire on the other hand, Mitchell came to that design from the Schneider Cup racing seaplanes and his aerodynamic mantra was about designing a razor thin wing. In those days he felt that the fastest airplane would have the thinnest wing and so everything about the Spitfire was trying to keep the profile drag of the wing and the thickness to a minimum. His design compromise was there was barely enough room for wheels in the Spitfire's wing. There was no room for fuel and even mounting guns proved problematic. In the case of the Hurricane, the wing is thick as a conscious design choice to try to reduce weight. If you built a wing and decided that it needed to sustain, say, 8 The weight of that wing panel would be lighter as the wing got thicker. Imagine a piece of paper. As it becomes thinner, it becomes much easier to flex the piece of paper. It loses its bending rigidity. And so one of the primary design considerations in CAM's mind was the empty weight of the airplane. A thick wing was to his advantage in terms of weight, not so much in terms of speed. Design, it's all about compromises. September 1st, 1939. Germany invades Poland. Britain and France quickly declare war, but do little to assist their Polish ally. As war rages in Poland, RAF Fighter Command readies for battle. 497 Hurricanes in 18 squadrons stand ready, with more on the way. Germany's early victory over Poland is followed by an eight-month period known as the Sitzkrieg, or Phony War. Britain uses this time to prepare for the inevitable onslaught. Four squadrons of Hurricanes are sent to France to help bolster the British Expeditionary Force. Blitzkrieg. May 10, 1940. German forces invade France, Belgium and Holland. In France, the Luftwaffe targets over 50 airfields with great success. British government reaction is swift. Three more Hurricane squadrons are sent to France. During the Battle of France, the Hurricane's first assignment was to target German bombs. Here, they proved very successful. But it also meant tackling the Luftwaffe's twin-engine fighter, the Messerschmitt Bf 110. The Bf 110 was a long-range strategic zerstorer, destroyer. Its job, clear a path through the enemy's defensive fighter screens and keep the bombers safe. As a fighter, the Bf 110 was ill-equipped to dogfight the hurricane. For a fighter to be successful in aerial combat, speed, acceleration and manoeuvrability were key. The Bf 110 possessed the first two, but was not nearly as nimble and could not accelerate as quickly as the hurricane. For the hurricane, the Battle of France was a short and frustrating affair. By the end of May, British troops were evacuating through Dunkirk and much of northern France was in German hands. Operation Dynamo was completed. Of the 452 Hurricanes sent to France, just 66 returned to Britain. Not all of these were victims of combat, however. Many were destroyed on the ground, lost in accidents, or simply abandoned during the retreat. Hampered by outdated tactics, squadrons entered battle in rigid sections of three aircraft, forcing hurricane pilots to fight at a distinct disadvantage. Despite all that, hurricane pilots claimed at least 499 kills. Post-war German records would show 299 aircraft destroyed and 65 seriously damaged by hurricanes. Rest for the hurricane pilots would be short. Flush with victory over France and the Low Countries, Hitler soon set his sights on Britain. By August 1940, the Luftwaffe moved 934 Bf 109Es to the Channel Coast. This would be supplemented by 237 Bf 110s, along with 1600 bombers. To meet this threat, the RAF had 29 squadrons of Hurricanes and 19 with Spitfires, for a total of 660 serviceable fighters. During the Battle of France, the Hurricane's main opponent had been the Bf 110. In the upcoming Battle of Britain, it would face the more deadly Bf 109E. As a single-seat fighter, the BF 109 was all business. Swift and heavily armed with two 20mm cannon and two 7.92mm machine guns, it outperformed the Hurricane in almost every category. BF 109 seems to have been all about performance. It has a very small wing on a very small fuselage and it is as close to a dart as they could get in early fighter design. And in terms of speed, they certainly succeeded. It was faster than the Hurricane and even the early model Spitfires by a margin, but it came at the cost of maneuverability. Certainly sustained turn performance was much inferior to either British fighter. But even with the Bf 109's advantages, the hurricane managed to hold its own. Day after day, scramble after scramble, hurricanes rose to meet the Luftwaffe. After three months of instant combat, the battle was coming to an end. Unable to destroy the RAF in the air and on the ground, Hitler turned his attention to London. September 15th, 1940. 1,200 Luftwaffe fighters and bombers begin a day-long attack on London. The RAF fighters, the British managed to shoot down 57 F-4 aircraft. While the loss ratio was 2 to 1 in the British favour, it was not the RAF's highest performance. By the end of September, the battle was all but over. Hitler's attempt to destroy the RAF had all but failed, ending any sort of invasion. For the Hurricane and the pilots who flew her, it was a triumph. Without the hurricane, the Battle of Britain would have been lost. For the hurricane, the numbers were impressive. Of the 1,185 Luftwaffe aircraft credited to RAF fighters, 656 were accounted for by hurricanes, of which 222 were Bf 109s. Hurricane pilots would also face another foe. Eager to share in the spoils of victory, Mussolini dispatched 75 bombers and 50 CR 42 and G 50 fighters to take part in the Battle of Britain. Ten BR 20s, escorted by 40 CR 42s, were intercepted by the Hurricanes of No. 46 and 257 squadrons. It was a one-sided battle. Three BR 20s and three CR 42s were shot down, two Hurricanes were slightly damaged. During the Battle of Britain, both Hawker factories at Brooklands and Langley were targeted by the Luftwaffe, with minor results. To further protect production facilities, a number of plants were moved underground. As part of the shadow factory scheme, hurricane production was moved underground at Longbridge. Here we see a newly completed hurricane on a motorised ramp, rising to the airfield above ground. How did the hurricane compare to the Spitfire during the Battle of Britain? As a gun platform, the Hurricane was superior. The four Browning machine guns in each wing were grouped tightly together, giving it a better concentration of fire. It was also rugged and able to absorb more battle damage. But even with all that, the Spitfire was the clear superior. Faster, with a higher rate of climb and ceiling, it could outdive the Hurricane with ease. One of the reasons the Spitfire is so satisfying to fly is that when it does come to putting it in a turn, whether for aerobatic reasons or because you're trying to feel out what its combat maneuvering capability would be, it doesn't take a lot of muscle to put a lot of G on the aircraft. The hurricane is the mirror image of that. The flight controls are quite stiff. There's a few pounds of breakout force to move the stick, and so doing anything precisely through friction is always a little bit more work than you'd like. As well, the Spitfire's stability is conventional and positive. For example, if you put the nose down in the Spitfire and accelerate, it will want to return to trim and you'll feel yourself easing the stick forward as a consequence of its stability. The Hurricane doesn't seem to have that. If you point the nose down, the airplane will accelerate a little bit, but the stick doesn't tend to migrate because the airplane doesn't tend to return to trim. And then the last notable difference between Spitfire and Hurricane when you're maneuvering is attributable to that beautiful elliptical wing on a spitfire Which was designed to minimize induced drag the pilot sees that when he pulls G turns and maneuvers As a tendency for the airplane to slow down and the spitfires case. It's negligible you can Go into a maneuver at 240 indicated pull lots of G make a turn come back out at your 240 knot entry speed didn't cost you a thing. The big fat wing on the Hurricane isn't quite as elegant and when you manoeuvre it costs you speed. In terms of combat effectiveness, the Spitfire was better. According to John Alcorn's statistical study of the Battle of Britain, which appeared in the July 2000 issue of Aeroplane Monthly, the Spitfire was 1.25 times more effective. The Spitfire also had the advantage of growth and design development. After the Battle of Britain, it was clear the Hurricane could no longer be improved. It would, however, soldier on in other roles. During the German Blitz of 1941, the Hurricane would be pressed into service as a night fighter, with marginal results. Without airborne radar, intersecting a German bomber at night was extremely difficult. In the months following the Battle of Britain, the Hurricanes Mark II, A and B were introduced. Powered by the Merlin 20 engine, the new Hurricanes were equipped with 12.303 inch Browning machine guns. The Mark II B was the first to carry bombs and was capable of carrying two 250-pounders. Nicknamed Hurry Bombers, RAF Fighter Command could now take the fight to the Germans. Fighter bomber suites were now the order of the day. Targets included airfields, trains and coastal shipping. But these low-level missions proved hazardous. Light flak and machine gun fire took a heavy toll. For the Germans, these raids proved more a nuisance than destructive. By the summer of 1942, 24 squadrons were flying Hurricane II As or II Bs. The Bf 109 F. Introduced in the late fall of 1940, it would prove vastly superior to both the Hurricane and the Spitfire Mark I. The days of the Hurricane as a fighter over Europe were clearly over. But unfortunately for the Germans, the Hawker Hurricane proved a tenacious warrior, holding its own against Germany's best fighters. But soon, tenacity would not be enough to guarantee survival. As ever faster German fighters rose up against the RAF, the less agile Hurricane was clearly outmatched. For the Hurricane to remain relevant in the struggle against Hitler, Hawker would have to reinvent their sturdy fighter. Introduced in the spring of 1942, the Hurricane Mark II C was the most heavily armed single-seat fighter in RAF service. Its four 20mm Hispano cannons packed a considerable punch. Analysis from the Battle of Britain showed the.303-inch machine gun armament to be clearly inadequate. German bombers, like the Junkers Ju 88, were difficult to shoot down. Equipped with self-sealing fuel tanks and armour plate, they could absorb a vast amount of.303 ammunition and remain flying. The new Mark II C packed a hefty punch. Total rounds carried was 364. Pilots were told to fire short bursts only. Long bursts would slow the aircraft down considerably. One can only speculate as to what the results might have been if the Hurricane had been equipped with four cannon during the Battle of Britain. The Mark II C was also modified to carry a pair of 250 or 500 pound bombs or a pair of 44 gallon drop tanks. The increased armament offered the Hurricane a new lease of life. By the autumn of 1941, the Hurricane's performance shortcomings excluded most daylight operations, but their numbers continued to increase. 57 home-based squadrons were now equipped with Mark IIBs and Cs. June 10th, 1940. Italy declares war on Britain and France. In North Africa and Egypt, the RAF's total fighter force consists of three squadrons of gladiators and just one Walker Hurricane. On the strategic island of Malta, four hastily assembled X-Fleet Air Arms Sea Gladiators are all that stand against the Italian Air Force. On June 21st, eight hurricanes are ferried to the island via France. Shortly after, France surrenders, cutting this line of supply. To keep their lines of communication open, the British had to find a new way around interfering German or Italian forces. For the British, their advantage lay with their colonial possessions. Takaradi 1940. Gold Coast of Africa. Preparations begin on a new airstrip. Takaradi would be the first stepping stone in a long ferry route across Africa to Cairo and Egypt. It was a hazardous journey. The first hurricanes arrived in September 1940. Shipped straight from the UK, these crazy hurricanes were quickly offloaded, reassembled and made ready for flight. After reaching Cairo, the ferry pilots would return to Thakuradi aboard a BOAC Lockheed Lodestar or RAF Bombay Transport. Prior to America's entry into the war, thousands of Americans would volunteer with both the RCAF and the RAF. The result was the first of three hurricane-equipped Eagle Squadrons. The initial squadron, number 71, formed in September 1940, and saw action in February 1941. Two other squadrons would follow, and in September 1942, all three were officially transferred to the USAAM, becoming the fourth fighter group. Pearl Harbor, December 7th, 1941. America and Britain are now at war with Japan. To strengthen the air defences of Malaya and Singapore, 51 crated hurricanes are sent by sea, arriving on January 3rd. With its reputation still glowing from the Battle of Britain, it was expected the hurricane would sweep the Japanese from the sky. That optimism was short-lived. The hurricanes that arrived on January 3rd were not assembled until the 19th. By that time, Japanese forces were swiftly advancing down the Malayan Peninsula. In the skies above Malaya, Nakajima Ki-43 Oscars and Mitsubishi A6M Zeros quickly overwhelmed the small hurricane force. By January 28th, of the original 51 hurricanes, only 20 were left. On February 10th, the last 7 hurricanes flew to Sumatra. Five days later, Singapore surrendered to the Japanese. North Africa. Since March 1941, British anti-tank weapons had proven inadequate when dealing with the German Panzer III and IV tanks. The new 57mm The 40mm anti-tank gun was in short supply. As army commanders pressed for a solution, the RAF offered the new Hurricane Mark II D, the world's first anti-tank fighter. Armed with two 40mm Vickers S guns, the new Hurricane was capable of defeating any tank when attacking from the side or the rear. The Vickers S-Gun rate of fire was 100 rounds per minute with a muzzle velocity of 1,870 feet per second. Each gun was equipped with 15 rounds of ammunition with a mix of high explosive and armor-piercing rounds. By the winter of 1942 the situation in Africa had settled down to an uneasy calm. During this period, No. 6 Squadron took delivery of its first cannon-armed hurricanes. Urgency was paramount and pilots immediately began low-level training. Testing revealed that in order to achieve success, it was necessary to approach the target horizontally and at very low level. To help with their aim, tracer ammunition from two Browning machine guns was used to judge distance. The captured German tank served as target practice. When these tactics were tried out during Exercise Spartan in March 1943, the results were very poor. This would be in sharp contrast to the outstanding success achieved with the same aircraft in the Western Desert. From June 1942 until May 1943, number six squadron flew a total of 319 anti-tank sorties. According to official records, 47 tanks, five armored cars, and three half-tracks were destroyed. Often, hits from the 40mm cannons only disabled an armoured vehicle. 126 other vehicles, including the 8-3 trucks, were also hit or destroyed. But it came at a price. 47 Hurricanes would be lost, with 40 being shot down by a fighter. It was clear. Low-level ground attack was dangerous and costly. Unfortunately, the urgent need for new tankbusters in North Africa left little time for the application of additional armour protection. The hurricane's liquid-cooled Merlin proved extremely vulnerable to ground fire. A single rifle-caliber bullet in the oil, glycol tank or radiator was often lethal, especially at low level. The tank-busting hurricane had other limitations. As a specialized weapon, targets were limited. The combat situation had to suit tactics as well, if tanks and vehicles were not caught out in the open, the tank-busting hurricane would sit idle. By the end of 1943, 800 Mark II Ds were delivered. While No. 6 Squadron's exploits were well-known, three other squadrons, all based in England, used the tank-busting hurricane with varying degrees of success. As a pure fighter, the Hurricanes performance no longer matched the newer BF 109G or FW 190. Their lack of speed was not Walker's only fault. It no longer made economic sense to build and construct Hurricanes as frontline fighters. Development of the Hurricane during the war was limited in part by the aerodynamic limitations of a thick wing and in part by how labor intensive it is to build a steel frame wrapped in a wooden structure wrapped in fabric and it took a lot of materials. There were people looking for Merlins, for Mosquitoes, Lancasters, Spitfires and Mustangs. Because of all the resources it took to build the rest of the airplane and its aerodynamic limitations, the Hurricane quickly slipped to the end of the list for priorities. Even with these drawbacks, the Hurricane continued to fight in some new and unusual roles. One of the most outlandish was the Cat Fighter, or Hurricat, a seaborne fighter rocket catapulted from a ship to provide convoy protection. German long-range Fw 200 Condors in combination with U-boats were taking a heavy toll of British shipping. To counter the threat, 35 merchant ships were converted with a single hurricane and catapult system. These ships were designated CAM ships, Catapult merchantmen. Cam ships and their Hurricanes would shoot down at least nine FW200s for the loss of just one Hurricane pilot. Unfortunately for the pilot, once the mission had been completed, he had to either ditch the aircraft or bail out close to a friendly ship. When the Royal Navy entered the war, its aircraft carriers were equipped with a mix of multi-role bomber and torpedo aircraft. There were no single-seat fighters. Desperate for a shipboard fighter, the Admiralty turned to the trusted Hurricane. The first Sea Hurricanes, equipped with an arrestor hook, were designated Mark 1Bs. Sea Hurricanes saw action in the Mediterranean, Atlantic and Russia. It was, however, not the ideal fighter for the job. Without folding wings, it took up a lot of deck space and its overall performance was lacking. By 1943, the Sea Hurricane was replaced by the more capable Grumman F4F Wildcat, a true naval fighter. In the end, 1,200 Hurricanes were converted for maritime use. By the summer of 1943, the Hurricane was withdrawn from service in England. Hurricane units began to receive a new Hawker fighter, the Typhoon was fast and heavily armed. Like its predecessor, Hawker had designed the Typhoon with a thick wing. The Typhoon's performance at altitude was disappointing, and like the Hurricane, it soon found a role as a deadly ground-attack fighter. Armed with eight air-to-ground rocket projectiles and four 20mm cannon, the Typhoon proved to be one of the most devastating ground attack aircraft of the war. The Typhoon would be followed by the even more impressive Orca Tempest. Equipped with a thin, laminar flow wing, the new Tempest was a great improvement over the Typhoon and was considered one of the best low to medium altitude fighters of the war. September 7th, 1942. The government's chief scientific advisor, Sir Henry Tisard, states, The hurricane has certainly outlived what everybody thought would be its useful life because of its value for aggressive action against land targets. The key to the Hurricane's survival was its thick wing and the development of new weaponry. Bombs, rocket projectiles and large-caliber cannon were the ingredients for this renaissance. The Hurricane's thick wing, which even Sidney Cam regarded as a cause for regret, was now one of its best assets. I don't think the design of the hurricane's wing ever anticipated the additional stores, bomb racks, rocket projectiles, or even external fuel tanks that grew into the airplane over time. It's because it was a thick wing that it had a lot of structural margins and it was relatively easy to retrofit these things. As well, the thick wing had the advantage of making the hurricane obsolescent in terms of fighter performance, in terms of speed, early in its career. And so having tooled up to produce lots of hurricanes, it became an easy design choice to press them into service as a ground attack airplane, which it performed admirably when it was no longer really an air superiority fighter. was the wing wasn't thick enough to find a good solution for both putting retractable gear into the wing and also putting the armament you needed. It was much easier on airplanes with a thicker wing to put the fuel tanks and the armament and the gear retraction. The Hurricane, armed to the teeth with weapons, fought bravely on. No. 6 Squadron, newly transferred to the Balkan Air Force, would prove to be the longest serving Hurricane Squadron in the RAF. With just a week before Germany's surrender, the Hurricanes of No. 6 Squadron attacked 16 German troop ships in the Gulf of Trieste. War for the Hurricane in Europe, on the other side of the world, the hurricane would battle on to the bitter end. After the fall of Singapore, British and Indian forces would continue to fight Japanese forces in Burma. The Burma campaign was one of the longest of the four. During the summer of 1942, hurricanes began to arrive at a rate of 50 a week. By September 1943, the RAF had over 1,000 hurricanes in theatre. But victory would not come easily. Spring 1944. The Japanese prepare to invade India. By March, the Imphal plain and the garrison town of Kohima were surrounded. Here, RAF air superiority won the day. While Spitfire Mark VIII cleared the skies of Japanese fighters, ten squadrons of Hurricanes pounded the Japanese forces below. By July, the Hurricane was replaced by Spitfires and the massive P-47 Thunderbolt. When Japan finally surrendered, three squadrons of Hurricanes were still in front line service. Armed with cannon, rocket, bombs and the newly developed NAPALM, the Hurricane remained a formidable weapon during the last four years of the war. Its versatility points to a fascinating paradox in the Hurricane's story. For an aircraft of such a transitional design, the Hurricane was both modern and dated, revolutionary and conventional. At its core, the Hurricane was quintessentially British. A bulldog of a plane, it reflected the nation's wartime character. Reliable, tough, determined. After the war, Hurricanes continued to serve. Amazingly, No. 6 Squadron continued to fly the Hurricane as an army cooperation unit in Palestine. The Indian Air Force operated two squadrons until 1947. The Irish Free States Air Force kept their 13 Hurricanes flying until that same year, and Portugal used them until 1951. The last Hurricane to be built by Hawker, PZ 865, now flies with the Battle of Britain epic as Sir Keith Park's personal aircraft. The arrival of the new jet fighters, beginning with the Gloster Meteor and the de Havilland Vampire, did not spell the end for Sidney Camm and Hawkers. Turning his attention to the new frontier of jet fighter production and design, Sydney wasted no time in producing the Hawker Seahawk. On September 3rd 1948, the first prototype took to the air. In 1949, Hawker would receive an order for 151 Seahawks. The Hawker Hunter, the last in a long line of outstanding fighters designed by Sidney Can. The genius of his design began with the Hawker Fury, the most successful biplane fighter of the 1930s. World War II would see the contributions made by the incomparable Hurricane, Typhoon and Tempest. The Hunter was a Cold War classic. Considered by many as the best-looking and best-handling combat fighter of the 1950s, the Hunter would serve the RAF well into the 1960s. The crown in Sidney Cam's career would have to be the Hawker Sidley Harrier. Far from the fabric and wood of the Hurricane, the Harrier was truly revolutionary. Powered by a Pegasus Vector Plus turbofan engine, the Harrier was the world's first vertical take-off and landing fighter. Among all of CAM's rich achievements, the hurricane has to be the most significant. Without his persistence, the future history of Britain, even mankind, might have been very different. As a tribute, Flight Magazine said it best, Without detracting in any way from the magnificent courage, skill and endurance of the fighter pilots, the British victory was in some measure due to Hawkers, who produced the aircraft in time and sufficient numbers to enable the pilots to turn the day. A lot has been said about the hurricane, the Spitfire and the Bf 109 in terms of which is the best fighter. And I think the most honest answer is that a good pilot will fly his airplane to its peculiar strengths and avoid being worked into a corner where he suffers from its weaknesses. And there were exceptionally capable pilots in hurricanes, Spitfires and 109s. The summer of 1940 was a moment in which the world was convinced Hitler's Germany would prevail. It was the hurricane that helped turn the tide. For the first time, Nazi invincibility had been defeated. was now a clear and unstoppable reality. He is one of the 20th century's greatest aviators. He has played a major part in the evolution of flight and in the process set records that will never be broken. My father was in the Royal Flying Corps during World War I. Now, originally he was a fairly hazardous occupation and after a while he decided that it might be a little less dangerous if he became a pilot. So he switched to flying. He always encouraged me in this flying business and he operated from an airfield fairly close to home at Turnhouse in Edinburgh, where there was an auxiliary air force squadron flying Gloucester Gamecocks. When I was I think about eight years old, he took me up in a Gamecock and sat me on his knee, and of course at that age I hadn't the leg length to reach the rudder pedals, so he let me handle the stick a little. We didn't do anything aerobatic. My father was in an organisation which was often set up after World War One of former combatants meeting to exchange their experiences and just generally socialise. In Germany, this group was led by Ernst Udett, the popular Great Wall flying ace. In 1936, Erich and his father visited its members in Berlin. We went with the joint purpose of watching the Olympics and enjoying the socialising with the former Luftwaffe. And indeed, Oudet asked me if I'd like to go for a flight with him. And this was unexpected, but he took the time off to drive me down to an airfield called Halle, south of Berlin, where he had a Buker Jungmann. He did a lot of manoeuvres that really tested my stomach rather to the limits, but at about probably 100 feet he turned the aircraft upside down and we approached the whole way down till I would say about 50 feet inverted towards the runway and I thought really this was my demise looming on the ground, and as we settled upright, so to speak, he just flopped onto the runway and burst into roars of laughter because he knew it frightened the life out of me. on your German and you must try and get into a flying organisation. If you achieve something in both these, come back and see me. In 1938, the teenaged Brown revisited Germany, this time alone. I looked up Udet in Berlin. He'd given And to my astonishment, he greeted me like a long lost chum. Here we were in Nazi Germany. How was the feeling? It was one of excitement really, because everything was happening at that time in Germany, and there were parades to go. And although this is all very militaristic, to a young boy like myself at that time, it was exciting stuff. There didn't seem to be any unemployment, and for the young in the country, there was almost endless aviation facilities. So that was Germany in 1938. Back in Scotland, Germany in 1938. Back in Scotland, Eric had by now progressed from Edinburgh's Royal High School to the city's famous university. Here he learned to fly. The university air squadron was connected at Edinburgh with the 603 Auxiliary Air Force squadron. And we were training then on what was a fairly new trainer, the Miles Magister, and after that lost the gauntlets. These were being supplied at this point to auxiliary air force squadrons. It was a lovely airplane, this little gauntlet, an aerobatic gem really. It was a four-year course, my honours degree in modern languages, the foreign office used to visit the university, the languages department looking for possible bright boys to recruit. And I was asked if I would be interested in joining the diplomatic corps. And I said I was. Since German is your primary language, you'll have to spend at least six months in Germany. You will be sent to a school on our recommendation and you will teach English. In summer 1939, Brown went to Zalem School near Lake Constance. It was really a delightful establishment. I'd gone up on the 3rd of September 1939 to spend the weekend in Munich, good delightful town. I have to tell you and I was a lucky boy in those days I owned an MG Magnet, I'd taken that with me and it was parked in the courtyard and at six o'clock in the morning of 3rd September there was a thunderous knock on my door and in came a lady with two SS officers and said our countries are at war and I'm afraid you'll have to come with us and was taken to an SS jail. I wasn't treated badly at all. My concern was, here we are at the very beginning of a war, how long is it going to last? Am I going to be here for the duration? On the third day, this young SS lieutenant said to me, you're being taken to the Swiss frontier for an exchange through the Red Cross, which I was delighted. The only thing the SS would let Brown keep was his car. Because we have no spares. I got to Bern and the ambassador interrogated me there and told me that in the light of the fact I was in the university air squad and I better get back as quickly as possible. This was the period of what's called the phony war. Well there wasn't going on operationally. And I, being young and keen, found this very, it's an inactivity, very boring frankly. And about the middle of September, the Royal Navy had an aircraft carrier, the Courageous, sunk in the southern Irish Sea. And they lost most of the pilots in that sinking and a notice went up on the RAF notice board saying that the fleet alarm was short of pilots and if anybody would like to move over would they put their names down. I was accepted by the fleet alarm but they wanted me to do that course of training. This course began at Sydenham near Belfast. It was here that Eric first met Lynne McCrory, his future wife. The training took Brown to various Royal Naval Air Stations. It was over a year before I actually got a posting to a squadron that was going to go on an aircraft carrier. By the time I got my posting to my first squadron, the Americans had offered us a thing called the Grumman Wildcat on Leasland. Now this was an exciting airplane for us because it was, if you compare it, probably up to the performance capacity of the Hurricane, which was the RAF's top fighter at that time. So it was very exciting to be drafted into a squadron that had this aircraft because it was a first-class aircraft, rugged, good firepower, specially built for deck landing. In April 1941, Eric and Lyn became engaged. The following month, he was flying a Wildcat down from Scotland to Croydon for modification. I ran into atrocious weather and crept my way, thankfully, into RAF Cranwell. To my utter surprise, there were just hordes of civilians around, so I wondered what was going on. But nobody would tell me. The next day, Cranwell's air traffic control asked Brown to perform some weather tests as the cloud base was low. From the air I could see this activity at one hangar. Finally, round about seven o'clock in the evening it was beginning to lift and there was furious activity at this hangar and they eventually rolled out an aircraft the like of which I'd never seen before because it had no propeller. Of course this was Britain's first jet aircraft the Gloucester E2839. and I watched this thing take off. It did a fairly short flight before it landed very smoothly, and a huge horde of people dashed over and surrounded it, and prominent amongst them was a wing commander in RAF uniform, and of course this was Frank Foothill. In summer 1941, Brown and his squadron transferred to HMS Audacity, Britain's first escort carrier. She had been captured from the Germans. It was originally a banana boat. Churchill put up the idea that if they just sliced the top off this vessel, put a flat flight deck on, we'd have a small carrier, which would be ideal for escorting convoys. Now, it was very basic. Whereas a normal aircraft carrier these days had a flight deck with a length of about 800 feet, this little vessel, total length was 420 feet. It had only two arrestor wires and then an emergency arrestor wire, which we called the for Christ's sake wire. In the firth of Clyde, Brown would make his first deck landing. Half of the pilots in the squadron had been on the bigger carriers before, and when they saw this small thing it must have frightened the life out of them. But to me I'd never seen an aircraft carrier before, so it was just another adventure and a challenge. And frankly I enjoyed it. From the air it looked like a matchbox floating in the sea. But I didn't find any great trouble and I did my four landings, I think it was, and that qualified me and we were off shortly into operations. The Audacity and its aircraft first accompanied a merchant convoy in September 1941. The ships sailed between Liverpool and Gibraltar, a strategic pillar of Britain's empire that was key to winning the war and keeping the country supplied. We knew we were going to have a rough time. The Bay of Biscay, as noted for its bad weather and heavy seas, our real targets were the Focke-Wulf 200, which had been known as a civil airliner called the Condor but had been modified into a very very potent four-engined reconnaissance bomber. It was a great threat to the convoys giving their position to the U-boat wolf packs which were around and they closed on the convoys and attacked, mainly at night of course. On our very first voyage we came across the first of these. Two of our aircraft went up to attack. It had bombed the convoy and caused a few casualties. These were transported onto a hospital ship we had with us, and in spite of it flying the Red Cross, the Condor bombed it. It was caught up by the first two Wildcats, and the pair were our commanding officer and his wingman, and the CO set the inner engine of the Condor and fire. He went in to have a closer look at what damage he had done and they opened fire and he turned away rapidly but a cannon shell cleaned through the under body of the aircraft and killed him. So we lost our CO within minutes of the first combat. How do pilots feel and react when they first see a U-boat? Well, of course, it's a thrill because it's a dark menacing shape. It really looks evil. It is electrifying and you feel a little helpless. The first major attack I should say was made in a submarine was by our CO's wingman and he dived down on it but they had manned their 20mm on the casing of the thing and actually shot him down. And we found out later when his body was recovered that the shell had gone through and hit the stick. I later on found two U-boats on the surface with a plank between them, well out from the convoy of course, and obviously one of them was in serious trouble of some sort, and because they were moving across this plank and helping one another. And when I caught them, they were still engaged in this and I killed quite a few of them walking in this area. It is hard to imagine the reality of this kind of naval warfare. Deck landing was a very difficult business to judge. I mean the back end of the vessel, the worst we had was it was moving through an arc of 60 feet. Now that was virtually impossible for landing, but we were up there and had to get back. Bad enough for the pilots, but think of the poor ground crew. We had no hangar. These six aircraft were parked at the stern, tied down by cables at night, and were being serviced. The only time that they were available for servicing was in the dark, at night. These troops were going around with a back end moving up and down, water pouring over them, slippery conditions, with a small torch, with a piece of blue paper over the front, to look into the engine, etc. I think they were pushed to the limit. We knew as pilots that our life depended on these guys. During the convoy's return trip, Brown's aircraft was hit by a condor. This shell smashed through my windscreen and a large piece of the glass from the screen came into my mouth. I think this concussed me. Apparently, my wing leader, I was the number two, came alongside me, and was afraid that I would become unconscious and that would have been that. So he kept talking to me all the time, trying to keep me going. He said I wasn't responding but appeared to be doing what he told me to do with the aircraft. And he talked me down onto the deck and I have no recollection of landing on at all, but I caught the for Christ's sake wire. Brown suffered further injuries when landing and was out of action until the convoy reached Britain. The Condor remained a huge threat. I then studied this aircraft very carefully to see where its armament was and how it could bring it to bear against an attacking aircraft. And I realised that there was no blind spot except from the front. Brown discovered there was a limit to how far the Condor's upper and lower front gunners could move their cannon before they were in danger of hitting their own fuselage. This left the Condor vulnerable to a head-on attack. On the second convoy to Gibraltar, Brown put his discovery into practice. When I eventually managed to get this aircraft into a situation where he was nipping in and out of cloud, it was rather difficult to keep up with him, eventually I made an absolutely flat attack. When I opened fire, I could see the pilot's windscreen shattering. As soon as I did that, it began to fall down in a very flat attitude into the sea, to such a degree that two of the crew managed to crawl out of it. So they probably drowned there, I would think. So that was my first attack. And I had a similar one the second time. The other guys quizzed me on this, of course, and they all adopted the same thing. We brought down four more using the head-on attack. On reaching Gibraltar, the convoy's escort fighters were flown into the colony's newly built aerodrome for further maintenance and to enable the pilots to keep in practice. Brown's convoy set back for Liverpool, commanded by Frederick Walker. From Spain, German spies noted its departure. After leaving Gibraltar, we were put under immense attack. We were a slow convoy, five lines of vessels, about four or five in a line. Walker would put the carrier right in the middle line so it was furthest away from attack. But our captain, who was senior to Walker, made his own decision. He decided that was putting the merchant ships at too much risk with a large number of U-boats attacking, so he came out the open and decided he'd zigzag throughout the night, clear of the convoy. We'd been doing that for maybe an hour or so, when a U-boat source fired a random torpedo at us in the hope of having a strike, because we were zigzagging at 14 knots, and as luck, his luck would have it, hit our rudder, carried the rudder away. The U-boat surfaced about 200 yards on our port side, and we could see the captain of the U-boat on, quite clearly, on the conning tower with the braid of his hat, Our captain called all the crew off the Audacia onto the flight deck. There was this uncanny period, which may have been as much as ten minutes, where we were looking at each other, when one of the sailors' nerves broke and he rushed to one of our 20mm cannons and opened fire at the U-boat. In retort, the captain of the U-boat fired four torpedoes, all of which struck us, and the entire bows carrier fell off, and of course when they went, she tipped up immediately, and as she did, the cables holding down the wildcats at the back all snapped, I'll never forget the twang as they snapped. And they came rushing down the deck into 400 sailors and just wiped out dozens of them. Knocking them over the side, killing them on impact and so on and so forth. Utter chaos. I realised what was going to happen, so I went immediately to the side and jumped off. This is the 21st of December in the Bay of Biscay. It wasn't going to be warm in there. I find myself with my flight leader. We were left for three or four hours in the water. He and I tied ourselves together and then got a group of sailors. We were 26 in all and we all tied ourselves together with the bits of cord and string we had. And obviously hypothermia was setting in and as they fell asleep they toppled forward and just drowned. And of course they were dead weight and I'm afraid the only ones surviving were the flight commander and myself. The reason being we had made wests which supported our necks, our heads, kept them above water. And it is a horrible thing to realise that your companions are just not surviving. The corvettes came back and they hoisted us out of the water. The captain, he was being hauled up when the line snapped and he went forward and I think he struck the hull of the corvette and knocked him unconscious because he just went in the water and vanished. While off duty, Eric and Lynne got married. Two months later, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for bravery and skill in action against enemy aircraft during the convoys. We were all recalled to reform the squadron with Hurricanes at Yeovilton and Somerset. But just prior to embarking, I was told that I was required to be kept behind of hurricanes and spitfires on escort carriers. Now, why was I tossed into the test world? I didn't discover till later on that the captain of the Audacity had written in my confidential report that I had a facility for deck landing and they should try and make use of this. That's why I was hauled out to see if a hurricane could be landed on an escort carrier and then a sea fire. Both trials were successful so from then on I was allotted to this test unit called the Service Trials Unit for the Navy. This was based at Crail in Scotland. Here Brown rapidly expanded his tally of deck landings in his new role as a test pilot. He was also promoted to lieutenant. By spring 1943 the Allied landings in Sicily were imminent. The role of the RAF was to attack land targets, but its pilots would need to return to aircraft carriers pending the capture of Italian airbases. This made it vital to train aircrew, both British and Canadian, in deck landing. I was sent to Kenley to teach the Canadians. They were not very receptive. They were heavily involved in their own kind of wars with Spitfires. And Canadians being what they are, the only way I could get them to agree to do some deck landing training was they said, we'll do one for every sortie you do with us. So this was the deal. So I did a few what they called rhubarbs and things like this over in France. There were shoals of 109s and 190s around, so one had to keep one's wits about one to survive. Terrible thing to say, but I enjoyed it, frankly. And you're not supposed to enjoy wars, but there you are. The spirit gets to you. After 14 months at Crail, Brown was posted to the Test Evaluation Squadron at Boscombe Down. I had been almost entirely a single-engined, piston-engined pilot. And suddenly I was thrown into a place where twins and four-engined aircraft abounded. I'd only been at Boscombe Down just a month. When I got a phone call from the Admiralty, they rang me up and asked me if I thought it was possible to land a Mosquito on a carrier, twin engine aircraft, with all the brash confidence of youth. I said, oh yes, I can do that. And so they said, right, you're on your way to Farnborough. At the Royal Aircraft Establishment in Farnborough, Brown would become Chief Naval Test Pilot. I had never even seen a mosquito till I got to Boscombe Down. So I had to learn to fly the aircraft and work up on it to land it on a carrier. They called it mission impossible, because the stalling speed of the Mosquito with everything down was 110 miles an hour, and the boffins at Farm Row said that the maximum speed that the arrestor wires would accept a Mosquito on a carrier was 86 miles an hour. Normally you land on with a little engine power as you come onto the carrier, but with this I'd have to use almost half engine power and hang on the propellers until I was about maybe three feet off the deck, then cut the engines when the aircraft would just fall out of the sky. So it was quite a hazardous thing and yet the trials went very successfully. Of course, the Navy were alerted to the fact that twin-engined aircraft could be operated on a carrier and they offered so much more potential. At Farnborough, Brown worked on many projects, apart from naval test flying. The war in Europe had been basically at what we call low to medium level, that is to say heights not much above 20,000 feet. 1943 with the arrival of the 8th United States Army Air Force with the flying fortresses because they operated at 30,000 feet. So suddenly the whole war was transformed into a high-level war. Now once you do that you run into was flying in thin air near the speed of sound. These problems created a phenomenon called compressibility. An aircraft sends a pressure wave ahead which opens the air for it to pass through. But to fly faster, the aircraft must fly higher where the air is thinner. At high altitude, the speed of sound is less and these pressure waves do not have the time to open up the passage of air for the aircraft. Instead they compress against each other. This compressibility builds up a barrier of air ahead of the aircraft. If you strike this barrier of air it is literally like running into a brick wall and you get huge amount of vibration and you get the worst thing is a vast change of trim. The aircraft suddenly goes nose down. In January 1944, General Jimmy Doolittle became commander of the 8th Air Force. At that time, they only had as fighter escort either the P-38 Lightning or the P-47 Thunderbolt. He realized that the losses were still heavy. The crews on the Flying Fortress told him that they saw the German aircraft climbing up to attack and their fighter escort, which would be high cover, were diving down to intercept the German aircraft, but just going straight past them and making a hole in the ground. What was going on? And of course, the answer was, they were getting into compressibility trouble. So General Doolittle came to us and said, could we look into what was happening? We found that the German aircraft could fight up to a Mach number of 0.75, three quarters of the speed of sound. They could actually manoeuvre at that speed. By contrast, the Lightning and Thunderbolt escorts could not operate beyond Mach 0.7 at high altitude. They were outclassed in combat. But by the grace of God, at this point, there appeared on the horizon the Mustang, which was an American fighter that had been useless at high altitude until they replaced the Allison engine with the British Merlin engine. The Merlin, of course, is a high-altitude engine. It transformed it completely, and it could fly, actually, combat, fly at 0.78. So here we had the answer. So General Doolittle used nothing but Mustangs for escort. This saved the United States bomber force, frankly. Many years later, when I was made a non-refeller of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Doolittle was my host at that time. And he said, would I take back to Farnborough his everlasting thanks for the job we had done for him. As the war ended, Brown was appointed CO of the captured enemy aircraft flight. In this role, he returned to Germany with three goals. One was to find its supersonic wind tunnels. Two, to locate its advanced aircraft and hopefully fly them. And 3. Interrogate Germany's leading aero-engineers and pilots. The biggest surprise we had was the jets and the rocket aircraft were left totally untouched. Why? I've asked myself this many times and I can only assume it was because they were so proud of their achievement that they wanted us to see this and see what might have been if they could have continued the war. Germany was divided into occupation zones. The main aviation research centers were in the British zone and the one at Falkenrode had three supersonic wind tunnels. We were frankly shocked to find how far ahead of us they were. The allies did not have one supersonic wind tunnel. Down in Bavaria we were alerted that there was a wind tunnel there, which had been originally in Pinemunde for Werner von Braun. And this had an airstream of Mach 4.4. Quite incredible. And if I think things had gone on unabated a bit further, I do think Germany would have been the first to have broken the sound barrier. The awful reality of Nazi Germany was soon apparent. I liked the people, I had many good friends in Germany, but of course I was rocked back on my heels and changed a lot of my opinion after what I saw in Belsen. In the camp we found 20,000 cases of typhus. And I think the Germans were very frightened of this getting out into the population, which at that stage in the war would have been disastrous. So the deal was we could come in unopposed and we would take over and try to quell this typhus situation and the Germans would retreat back to their units to continue the fight against us. Strange arrangement but that's how it was. And what we saw there, indescribable. The piles of bodies were bad enough, but it was the stench of the place that I find so terrible. And, of course, we were a little worried about catching typhus. At Belsen, Brown was asked to interrogate the camp's boss and his mistress, Irma Grazer. She had been the female camp commandant to Auschwitz and was of course well known there for her exceptional cruelty. She really was the worst human being I have ever met. When I interrogated her, she wouldn't reply. She just sat in a chair and wouldn't reply. Then suddenly leapt to her feet, gave the Heil Hitler salute and called out Heil Hitler and then sat down refused to answer anything. She was hung by Albert Pierpoint. Even when he put the bag over her head she showed not a whittle of emotion. So these are the sort of people one can find in the nation, I guess. The Luftwaffe's jet aircraft were a revelation. The Me 262 without any question was the most formidable aircraft of World War II. For this reason, it had a lot of innovatory features and a quantum jump in performance. The innovatory features were of course primarily swept-back wings, secondly axial flow jet engine, thirdly heavy, very heavy firepower, 4 30 millimeter cannon. It was the performance that rattled us because at this time the top Allied fighter was the Spitfire Mark 14, with a top speed of 446 miles an hour. When I tested the Me 262 at Farnborough, it had a top speed of 568 miles an With this sort of fighter, you could conduct combat totally on your terms. If you didn't want to engage, you could go off and leave everybody standing. The 262 was powered by an axial-flow turbojet, the Yumo 004. It was a beautiful airplane to fly, but it had very, very sensitive jet engines. And when they were acting correctly, you had a great aeroplane on your hands. When they were temperamental, you had quite a difficult aeroplane on your hands. Brown himself captured an airfield stocked with another amazing German aircraft. Now, the Arado 234, different propositions, straight wing, same engines, but a reconnaissance bomber. But it was so fast, even with straight wings, that it could outrun any Allied fighter. And we know that it had taken reconnaissance pictures over Great Britain, operating out of It was easier to keep serviceable than the Messerschmitt 262. I tended to fly the Arado more because we were getting more information on the engine out of it. That's what we really wanted at that stage. And Brown was also the only Allied pilot to fly the most innovative Nazi aircraft of all, the Me 163. You had swept wings on this, it was semi-tailless, it had a rocket motor, which was unique in the sense. Rockets have been tried in aircraft for years. Here was a rocket produced which was throttleable. The 163, in my opinion, at the end of the day, was a tool of desperation. In its entire operational time it killed 16 Allied aircraft, for the loss of 10 of its own. with operational accidents due to the high volatility of the fuels used. Its main fuel was concentrated hydrogen peroxide. Now I knew nothing more explosive. You had under full power 120 seconds of flight. That was all. If you landed with as much as a cup full of fuel in the aircraft, the impact of touchdown would cause a violent explosion. Brown discovered the arms of the pilot's seat were in fact hydrogen peroxide fuel tanks. If a bullet goes through and fuel leaks, it would take nine minutes to melt the pilot. But, strangely enough, at the end of the war, it was the aircraft that influenced world aviation thinking more than any other unit. In Germany, Brown was also busy interrogating the key players in Nazi aviation. In the whole of the American occupation zone, they hadn't a single Rado 234 and they were very keen to get one. So they were given two, then they came back to us and said the Secretary of State said we would very much like to have another two and I hummed and hoared over this, purely as a game, and said we would like a quid pro quo and they said well what are you after and I said interrogation rights with Goering. After a month they agreed. I interrogated him, I think, if I recollect, it was the 16th of June 1945, and I was given an hour, told I mustn't ask him any political questions because of the and frankly I find him a charismatic rogue. I asked him what he thought the outcome of the Battle of Britain was, to which he replied that it was a draw. And I said, well, how did you arrive at that conclusion? And he said, well, if you look at the official casualty lists on both sides, he said there isn't much between them. Now that's not an unreasonable statement when you look at the casualty list. And he said, secondly, we withdrew. We were not defeated. We withdrew because Hitler ordered all the air units back to train for Operation Barbarossa, which was the invasion of Russia. Now that is also factually true. Now I would not like to tell the RAF that. By 1941 it had become clear that gas turbine jet propulsion was the future of flight. The aviation industry's next goal was to fly at supersonic speed. This was impossible on any engine aircraft because of the drag of the propeller. Farnborough had started, and indeed was the first research establishment in the world, to start work on compressibility and transonic testing. And it started using the Spitfire V back in 1941. Its boffins realised they had the key to supersonic flight. So they issued a specification in 1943 for a supersonic research aircraft. And they chose a Miles aircraft to design, with the help of Farnborough, the actual aircraft. This was designated the Miles M-52. One has to say they made a very good job of it. It had a special engine to be built by Frank Whittle, which was a turbine fan with reheat. We believed we could reach a thousand miles an hour. And the aircraft had also a biconvex wing, which was known as the Gillette wing, and thirdly, it had a flying tail. This folds the tailplane and its elevator into one solid piece, which makes the aircraft more controllable as it nears supersonic speed. I think because of the impression that I made, or so I'm told, with getting the Mosi on the deck, they thought, we'll use this guy in the high-speed flight. In 1944, Brown became the Navy's first pilot to fly a jet aeroplane. By contrast, no test pilot at miles had yet flown one. I was chosen to be the pilot on it for the simple reason that the fuselage at the pilot position was only four feet in diameter, and you couldn't get a pilot in there with more than five feet eight. In December 1945, when the aircraft was 92% ready for first flight, there arose a great problem that who was then running Power Jets, fell out with the establishment over the question of whether he or Rolls-Royce should produce production jet engines. It was ruled that Rolls-Royce should do it. He was so unhappy with this that he resigned from Power Jets. A month and a half later, the M-52 was cancelled. I had already been given the date for the first flight, which was to be October 1946, at Bottom Down. There was no prior notification given either to Miles or to Farnborough, and I was hopping mad, frankly, when I heard the decision. Nobody would tell Brown why the M-52 had been cancelled. About six months before the cancellation, the Ministry of Aircraft Production had ordered that we receive a visit from the Americans, that everything be shown to them, nothing to be withheld from them whatsoever. There were even to be given copies of all the reports and copies of the design work etc. Without this visit the Americans would not have advanced through the sand valley with the X1 as early as they did. I think it was certainly well within our grasp and and taken away, and this is the galling thing, for a reason that, up to today, we are not sure why it was done. Have you thought how your own life would have gone down a different avenue, perhaps? Perhaps, yes. I wouldn't have relished it to the same degree, I don't think. While waiting to fly the M52, Brown had been working at Farnborough on another project that would further expand the military potential of jet aeroplanes. The then boss of the outfit said to me, you know, you should be thinking of getting one of these onto carriers. Brown could choose from four aircraft. There was the E2839, the Gloucester. This was ruled out because it was really an engine test bed. There was the Meteor, which was twin-engined and really too big for the job. There was the Bell Aerocomet, the American one, and then they left us with the only other alternative, the de Havilland Spider Crab, spider crab, which became the vampire. And we selected that. The vampire was a very, very docile aircraft. Easy to fly and all handling characteristics, very benign. The only problem we had was at that stage development, the acceleration of the jet engine and the deceleration was very poor. What we wanted was throttle reaction on a jet like you have on a piston engine. The task would require a whole new technique. The essence of deck landing is lift control, and you get that on a piston engine aircraft by throttle movement. If you want lift, you just push up the throttle, the air screw will rev up, and you get lift from the wash from the propeller. If you want drag, which you do if you're getting too fast, you need drag, you just throttle back. In a jet, the only way you can get lift is by accelerating and getting more speed, and the only way you can get drag is from airbrakes. So it's a different technique altogether. Our big boost to all this was we were going to beat the Americans to it, which we did by nine months. On December 3rd 1945 Brown landed the Vampire on HMS Ocean. By marrying the reach of a carrier with the power of a jet aircraft this pioneering flight would take naval warfare in a new direction. As Britain adjusted to post-war life Brown pondered his future during his fourth year at Farnborough. He had always been a reserve naval officer. Hawker were eager to hire him as a test pilot. I then approached the Navy and they said, oh, Farnborough says you can't be released. You're engaged in one or two top secret projects. And I said, well, you really are penalising me for this, aren't you? And they said, well, we will try and compensate you by offering you a permanent commission. And I said, right, I'm prepared to accept that. Peace and the gas turbine engine changed the focus of test flying. The emphasis obviously went on to civil aviation. We wanted a new breed of civil aircraft altogether. The first jet airliners were now well on the way. They had no option but to fly at high altitude, so penetration of thunder clouds had to be looked at, but also a new phenomenon was occurring up there called clear air turbulence. Here was a new environment for civilian passengers. The structural demands on a civil airliner become huge. Someone had to find out more about them. One of the most uncomfortable tests I've ever made in my life was penetrating a thunder head in a Spitfire. It is a frightening experience. You are tossed around like a little light toy and in addition you're getting the full visual entertainment, lightning strikes on the fuselage and lightning strikes that destroy your vision. You're at the mercy of the wind shears occurring in those thunderheads. And sometimes you'll find yourself going up at a rate of 1,000 feet a minute and a couple of seconds later you'll be going down at a similar rate. Eric Brown's exploits in test flying took him to Buckingham Palace to receive further decorations. But the happiest occasion came in 1948 when his wife Lynne gave birth to a son. By now, years of working at Tharnborough had shown the fragility of life as a test pilot. After a while you realise if you're going to stay in the job any length of time, you better think about survivability. And the fatality rate at Farnborough amongst test pilots in aerodynamics flight was very high, 25%. Wartime pressure for quick results had been a major cause of fatalities. We were jumping from one aircraft, one type of aircraft to another. I've done as many as eight different types in one day. So preparation is vital. That requires time, and a lot of pilots prefer to use their time drinking at the bar. They were familiar with the aircraft when everything was normal. But when an emergency occurred, they hadn't boned up on what to do in these emergencies. Now, I always carried a knee pad with me, one to take test results, but on the other knee I had a pad with the emergency drill. I think preparation contributed a large percentage to my survival. But another thing is, I think my stature contributed to my survival, because it's very noticeable that very tall people in aeroplanes run into a lot of bigger troubles than small pilots. In 1949, Brown again cheated death when a jet-powered flying boat that he was landing in the Solent hit a floating mast that had broken off a yacht. After six years of test flying at Farnborough, and the Lordships of the Admiralty decided I'd better go back to operational flying. Brown rejoined his old squadron, 802, as senior pilot. I found it very easy to integrate. I mean the flying was much simpler, but what I enjoyed tremendously was the camaraderie of squadron life. We were in the Mediterranean at that time, and flying from what I call a fleet carrier, wasn't a full-size carrier, in the sea furies, You forget that naval flying is very different from air force flying. You're in an environment which is basically hostile to the sea. Flying single engine aircraft too. If anything happens, a ditching is inevitable. That is not an easy thing to do, particularly if the sea is rough. So the Air Force fighter pilot goes out, has his combat, comes back to his airfield. In the Navy you have your combat and then you've got to find your way home because, unlike fighting You're not allowed to contact your carrier in case you give its position away. Sometimes after combat you're quite disorientated. And then when you get back, you have the hazard of deck landing. But on the nice side, I was fortunate enough to lead the Navy's piston engine aerobatic team to give air shows when we got back to UK. Brown's next posting took him to the United States Navy. After leaving Farnborough, the Americans had asked if I could go to America to their test centre, Patuxent River. The Brown family crossed the Atlantic the traditional way and took up residence at the US Naval Air Test Centre in Maryland. Here, he was able to fly the F-86 Sabre, then proving itself in Korea, and complete some unfinished business. The F-86 was one of the most delightful jets. In fact, I count it as the most delightful to handle, because it had almost perfect harmony of control is what binds a pilot with his aircraft. You feel you and the airplane are one, you're part of it. And this, the Sabre has, absolutely. And also I have a great affection for it because it was the first aircraft in which I ever went supersonic. I'd done so much transonic flying that when I actually took the F-86 through the barrier, it really did exactly what I thought would happen. The only surprise was, because one hadn't experienced it before, was when you got through the barrier, everything suddenly became dead smooth, and and porpoising and nose down trim effect all disappeared and you were in smooth air. The Royal Navy wanted all career officers who were pilots to learn how to take control of the vessel. On return to Britain, Brown was posted to HMS Rocket, an anti-submarine frigate based at Londonderry to serve as one of the ship's officers. At the end of 1953 he returned to Scotland to command 804 squadron at Lossiemouth flying Hawker Seahawks. He was also promoted to commander. And the next year the Browns moved to Wales where Eric became air commander at at Brodie station in Pembrokeshire. Brodie was in the depths of Wales and of course it was a fairly isolated part of the country and subject to very nasty weather. It was coastal and we were on the top of a fairly high cliff, a difficult place to operate on. And to this day, the centre of a mystery. Air traffic control alerted me that aircraft were reporting seeing a flying saucer. And when one looked up, anywhere on the airfield it was clear to the naked eye there was something like a saucer up there. So I said, right, I'll take a vampire up and have a look at it, and went up to the absolute ultimate ceiling of the vampire which was just almost 40,000 feet and it was still above me. I didn't get close enough to put my hand on my heart and say what it was. Anyway, we recorded it, but I have an open mind on flying saucers. In 1958 Brown's work once again took him back to Germany as chief of the British naval mission in Kiel. I went really to build up the German naval air arm. Goering had insisted that everything that flies comes under his control. At the end of the war they were left high and dry of course and as an effort to get them back into business they appealed to NATO that if they could reform a German naval air arm they would be happy to assign it to NATO. So my job was to take World War II pilots together with an intake of the new generation of post-war pilots and meld them all together into a force that we could assign to NATO. Brown achieved this demanding task. At the end of the day they were a very good fighting force and I was very proud to hand them over to NATO. The naval pilots had used British Seahawks as their jet trainers. When we finished, I had recommended to them that they continue thereafter with Buccaneers, but the German manufacturers ganged up on the German services and insisted on having the F-104 Starfighter. The reason for this was the German industry realized they had been out of the game and they wanted to get back into the Mach 1, the supersonic league, in one jump. Now the services weren't happy with this. The German services would receive an all-purpose starfighter that weighed a thousand kilograms more than those in the USA. It was a tricky ship to fly and they wouldn't let anybody touch it with less than 1,500 hours. The Germans were sending pilots in with 400 hours. Almost 150 crashed, of which 50% of the crashes were fatal. Disaster in every sense of the word. How did you find the Starfighter to fly? Oh, it was very tricky. You had to have your wits about you. It was tricky in bad weather, but if you had an emergency and bad weather on your hands, you really needed a crackerjack pilot there to deal with it. Working in Germany, Brown saw how the past could return to haunt the present. Donitz had come out of his ten years in prison. A submarine ace up at Keele, where we were based, had died, so there was to be a big funeral for him. And the naval alarm were going to turn out. Back in Whitehall, it was felt diplomatic for Brown to attend. Then it went to the funeral, and afterwards he came along and shook hands with every chap. And he'd gone three past me. And he realized I wasn't in German uniform. So he came back. And he said, you're British, aren't you? And I said, yes. He said, what are you doing here? And I said, oh, that's very kind, thank you very much, and just went on. But when he got to the end of the line, and before stepping into his car, they all broke ranks and rushed over to surround him. However, they knew they could not cheer a Nazi leader. They all took their hats off, as they do for the normal three cheers, hip-hip-hooray, and did this three times, but in complete silence. It was quite eerie. Towards the end of his time in Germany, Eric Brown was promoted to the rank of captain. When I returned from my posting in Germany to the Admiralty, I at first was made Deputy Director of the Gunnery Division. I had a year of that, which was enough, and then became the Deputy Director of Air Warfare. Now this was a very interesting period because we were proposing a new carrier and we wanted new aircraft. There was a tendency in the Ministry of Defence at this time to ask both the Air Force and ourselves to use the same aircraft. They were trying hard to push on to us a VTOL version, the P1154, an increased size Harrier really. To me, not a very impressive performance. We still had the Ark Royal, the Hermes and the Eagle, so we were still in the big carrier game. And I was quite determined I was not going to have VTOL. I wanted to have the fastest performance aircraft we could have. And looming on the horizon at that time was this wonderful aircraft, the McDonnell Phantom. Twin-engined, which is another good thing to have in naval aviation if you're spending your time over the lonely sea, and tremendous performance, but above all, tremendous weapon-carrying ability. In its day, it was head and shoulders above anything that was around. Brown pushed hard for the Phantom in Whitehall. The chief scientist at that time supported me, and this was, I think, what tipped the scales, really. When we actually got it, it was everything I'd hoped for. I flew it in America, I flew it here, I flew it onto an American carrier, and it was superb. What was it like to land on a carrier the first time? Fast, of course, but very easy, apart from the high landing speed which means you have to think a little bit faster. The Navy would be able to use the Phantoms for barely 10 years and only on one carrier. Just before the Falklands crisis arose the Ark Royal was scrapped, the Phantom brought out of therefore with the Harrier as our main strike aircraft. The carrier, for safety reasons, had to stand 70 miles off the Falkland Islands. This restricted the Harrier's capability. By the time it's got the 70 miles, done half an hour over the Falklands, circling around, waiting for Argentine aircraft to come, then 70 miles back again, it is almost out of fuel. If we'd had the Phantom, it would have gone halfway to Argentina to kill the aircraft coming out to raid the Falklands en route. And I spoke to the commander of the Falklands campaign afterwards, and he felt that if he had had Phantoms, this battle could have been won in probably a fortnight or a month. You're flying the Phantom, just 25 years after flying a Gladiator. Do you ever think about that? Nothing accelerates technology, of course, like a war. And we entered it, as you so rightly say, largely a biplane air force, Air Force and emerged from it as a monoplane Air Force with a considerable improvement in performance. It is incredible the progress that was made because of the pressure of war and of course fortunately there was the genius arriving on the scene and coming at absolutely the right time to transform us from the piston engine era into the jet era. Without war to achieve what we did would probably have taken maybe 20 years instead it compressed into five years. 25 years after the British authorities had sent Brown to teach in Germany, he finally went there as a diplomat. In November 1964, he became the naval attache at the Bonn Embassy. That was a very interesting visit because it was a time of the state visit of the Queen, her first to Germany. The enthusiasm for her was incredible. Right along the Rhine, they had painted on the banks of the Rhine, Welcome to Our Queen. MUSIC It gave me a chance to meet some of the new heads of state, for example the new president Earhart who was the Chancellor, one really got into the inner circle there and I think they were genuinely, genuinely working for a new Germany. Not many of them knew my background. They really didn't connect. I didn't talk about it much and I didn't think it was the right thing to do in diplomatic circles because inevitably they do not like to hear talk about the SS. But what's that, if we had known then what we know now, we would certainly have not allowed you and your car out of Germany. In 1967, Brown returned to Lossiemouth, this time as commander of its naval air station. Two years later, he was made a naval aide-de-camp to the Queen. He retired from the Royal Navy in 1970 and went to work in the aviation industry. Captain Eric Brown is regarded as the leading aviator from the great age of test flying. His work was crucial to Britain's defence. Yet this era has a wider legacy still. It paved the way to the safe flying that we now take for granted every day in thousands of airlines. What do you think is it that makes a good pilot? Well, what a good question. To begin with, motivation, obviously, is the first. If you're not motivated, you're never going to want to fly. Secondly, you have got to believe that you're doing something that is going to take your full interest. You're not doing it because it's fashionable or because you think, oh, you know, this is a good sideline to have with the girls or anything like that. The only way to take it further is either you go into civil aviation as an airline pilot or you go into the services. And then you're going to have to step up another gear. And gear and that means you've got to improve your skills particularly in blind flying and that is usually a hurdle that brings a lot down. In wartime what is it that separates the good combat pilot from the bad? Oh well I think most of the really brilliant combat pilots were good shots. It was a hobby of theirs. For example, Johnny Johnson on our side was a very good shot, Galland and Booby Hartman were both great shots with rifles. Every fighter pilot goes through this unless he's been a good shot. There comes a period just after you've qualified where your camera gun shots show that you're not going to hit anything and suddenly when you're feeling pretty desperate about getting a hang of it all it clicks. Is it a psychological motivation? I think so to a large degree yes, yes. Yes. Yes. An analyst in 1980 something or other looked at my career and said I had 11 death threatening accidents. So to survive those I can't complain. So to survive those I can't complain. plane.