In today's chess video, I am going to show the Traxler Counter Attack. And plus, I also have a really interesting chess puzzle for you all. So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Let's start with the opening. White starts with e4, you respond with e5, We have the Italian Game on the board. This is a very common opening played at the Now we play knight f6 inviting white to move From here, there are quite a few nasty tricks and the Lolli attack, but what WE are going starts with the move bishop c5. This is the Traxler counter attack. From now on, we are going to play a very attacking game. We might have to sacrifice some pieces, but to be to hunt down this king right from the So if attack is your style, then this is the Okay, as you can see, we have totally ignored natural looking move knight to f7, double Some of you might say that bishop f7 also white can do after that, therefore, in majority Okay, It's time to launch your attack now, check. This is a stunner. From here, white has 3 options. The most obvious one would be king takes bishop. I am going to show you all the tricks and If you want me to cover all the tricks &amp; ideas this poll above. If you answer Yes, I will make a video on Okay, now after sacrificing our bishop, we It's another check to white. From here, the white king has 6 possible moves It's very important that you watch this video will learn from it will take your game to See there are thousands of variations that I obviously cannot cover all of them in ONE And you also don't need to memorise any moves. If you understand the overall logic &amp; idea smash your opponent. Now let me just quickly show you the attacking This knight is always going to be crucial Your queen can also come out anytime &amp; threaten Your other knight is also just one move away Your bishop can also attack like this after And you can castle anytime to attack this So all in all, you can be very creative with Okay, let's analyse each move one by one now. We will go a little fast from here so please In this position, if white plays king to e1, Let me show you how. It's queen h4 check. If king goes to f1, then queen f2 is mate. If king goes to e2, then after the following white is checkmate in 3 moves. So the only logical reply in this position But after knight takes pawn, if white tries and we can mate the white king in the same If white decides to capture our knight instead, He can't move his king otherwise he will lose He has to block with his bishop. After that, we simply castle attacking this Queen to e2 seems the only logical reply by We attack this queen with our knight. Queen is forced to offer an exchange. At this point, we can exchange queens and And as you can see, this is totally winning Okay, going back, let's look at what happens This time we bring our other knight into the It's a check. If king e1, then it's the same attack as we If king d3, then knight f2 is a triple attack If king moves to f1, then queen f6 check. Moving the king will result in a mate so he In this position, If he plays king to e3, attacking this king until he is checkmate. Okay, going back, now let's look at what happens We play queen f6 check. Since white has come this far, he will definitely Then pawn to d5 check. If bishop takes, then queen f4 check. King d3 is forced. Again queen d4 check. King e2 is forced. Then we take this bishop and if you see, we If white tries to be greedy &amp; takes this rook, check and this sweety is gone. In this position, if white king takes this pawn, First knight b4 check. And if king goes to e4, then queen f4 is checkmate. And if king goes to c5, then queen b6 is a Going back, now let's look at what you can We bring out our queen threatening a mate White has only 3 decent moves here but none Let's take a look. If queen f3, then knight d4 is attacking the White has only 2 logical replies. Either queen e3 or pawn g3. Anything else he plays will be game over for If queen e3, then you can simply fork the your rook and knight. If pawn g3, then queen h3 check. White has no option apart from queen g2. Then queen f5 check. Now no matter what move white plays, black can easily win it from here. Going back, In this position, if white plays into the game and then start attacking with In this position, if he plays queen e1, then Remember this, In most of these lines, knight Now If queen takes, then you can simply regain a solid position. Going back, If he shifts his king to g1, then we can snap up this rook and again end up Okay, going back, now let's look at what happens Again, we move our queen to h4 protecting If knight takes rook, then queen f4 check from here. Going back, in this position, if he plays can bring more attacking pieces into the game diagonal for your bishop. The key will always be to attack with as many Okay, now let's look at the sixth &amp; final This is actually the best move for white, We need to save our queen first so we play Now White needs to prevent this checkmate So If he plays something like queen e2 or like we discussed earlier. If he plays queen f1, then again you can attack is in trouble. Another option he has in this position is white. As always, you will capture this pawn with If pawn takes knight, then queen g3 check. White has the only move that is king f1. And then again we attack with our rook on As you can see, we have so many attacking And plus, this king is out in the open so As you saw throughout this game, white never pieces and thats the beauty of this attack. That's the reason why black is always dominating the game. Okay, so It's puzzle time. But Before moving onto today's chess puzzle, this video. We are targeting 3000 likes on this video, right now. Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, don't forget to Subscribe &amp; for some videos on our channel. That's it guys, Thanks for watching &amp; I shall