Whoever marries a wife and gives a betrothal gift is really generous The Three Great Families in Taiyuan City Zhang Yaoli Except for our shopkeeper Either the Zhang family or the Yao family Quick, quick, quick, lock the door The young lady is here again Open the door Open the door I'm not a tiger, why am I hiding? This woman is crazy. Boss Yao, you've made a mistake this time. What's wrong This is the eldest lady of the Zhang family. Zhang Jingu, the daughter-in-law of Manager Li The shopkeeper is really not in the store. Really not here fart Are you guys opening it or not? Is it good not to open it? Can you open the door? Young Madam, it's not that we don't open it. It is indeed the shopkeeper who has expectations. I don't care if it doesn't open, I'll smash it. Madam, please forgive us. I'm going to smash your store today. Congratulations! Congratulations! Boss Yao please please please housekeeper Give this betrothal gift list to my parents-in-law. Please have a look at it yes master My dear father-in-law, you are too polite. No need, no need Hey, Miss Two What's going on? Look at you, you're so stupid. Second Miss, you are still being kept in the dark by the master. The Yao family's betrothal gifts have all been delivered. real Just listen for yourself. They are singing the betrothal song in the front yard. Four loads of Xinghua Village aged wine A box of Jinyuan time-honored silver goods Butler Zhang, here's some more. A pair of Thai ivory no Go tell your shopkeeper Li Bopi How can a daughter-in-law call her father-in-law by his nickname? I don't care if you tell Li Bo Pi Today, I will give my aunt one thousand taels of silver. Otherwise, I will make him suffer. I see this wedding day Let's set it for tomorrow tomorrow What do you think, dear father-in-law? housekeeper Do you think we can get everything ready overnight? Now the key is to tell Master Don't wait until then. Master, I'll go and tell you. Then it won't be up to him. yes I said my relatives will do as you say. We will hold the wedding ceremony tomorrow. How much silver is this bird worth? The son really wants I'm not lying about this number. Ten taels What Hey, Mr. Young Master, Young Master, if you really want it How about you give me a price so we can negotiate? What good bird would two taels of silver be? The bird that this young master wants At least 10 or 20 taels each. Tomorrow is your second young lady's wedding day. Tonight This place overnight Arrange everything inside and outside. OK Just keep working and keep talking quietly We can't let the news of the Yao family's wedding spread. Let the second lady know Whoever leaks the news Whose tongue did I cut off? Did you hear that? Hurry over there What are you doing with all the lights and decorations at home? Wedding The lantern is tilted a little to the left. Whose wedding is it for? She's the eldest lady. Is there anyone else in the family who can support the second young lady? Second Miss Cao is back Miss, come here. You guys are so slow. Miss, sir Lied that Mr. Cao died in Guangzhou The second daughter was betrothed to the Yao family in Xicheng The betrothal gift received today will be handed over tomorrow So fast Yes Does the second lady know? The master has given orders. Who leaked the news? Cut off whose tongue OK, I understand. Go ahead and do your work. Hang up the silk Dad, I advise you It's better to cancel the marriage with the Yao family immediately. It's still not too late. No refund, no refund If you keep going down this path until the end You will regret it sooner or later I will never regret it sooner or later. Then Mr. Cao will come back. If he doesn't obey you, I won't obey you either. You love it or not, right? Then I'll go to the government office and sue you. What are you telling me? What are you telling me? I'm accusing you of selling your eldest daughter for money. Now he is greedy for wealth and wants to sell his second daughter You are full of nonsense. You are really Everything I say is true Roll aside Look at it You can't argue with me, I'm in the wrong, right? If you want to turn your face, then turn your face My girl, please don't do this. My aunt has suffered enough these years. Poor as hell My father-in-law doesn't care about me, and he doesn't even care about my mother's father. It's not that dad doesn't love you, right? As the saying goes A daughter who is married off is like water spilled. You are now a member of the Li family. Of course you should look for your father-in-law. Okay, he said he wanted to find you, you said you wanted to find him You two are pushing each other. What the hell are you guys doing? What dare you scold me? I scolded you, what happened to me? I scold you, but that's too light. Okay, okay, you're the opposite of me. I will oppose Anyway, there are no good days. Don't stop me What are you still standing there for? Why don't you help the master go back to the house to rest? I'm so mad Sir, calm down. I don't have such a daughter You let her get out of here. Why hasn't it been posted for so long? Hurry up! You guys should hold on tight too. Everyone, pay attention, hold tight. It takes so long to tie a piece of silk. Hurry up! Excuse me, is this Zhang Mansion? Yeah, who are you looking for? I'm here to visit relatives. What relatives should I choose? Zhang Linchi, Mr. Zhang is my father-in-law. Oh you are Yours sincerely, Cao Wenhuang Please Please Master, Master, wake up! Grandpa, grandpa, second uncle is back Which second uncle? Cao Wenhuang, Uncle Cao is back real Is this still fake? Now the whole government is in an uproar. Do you know how the master arranged for Mr. Cao? I'm just busy giving you the news. I haven't asked yet. But don't worry. I'll go and ask for you now. Wait, Mr. Cao Is it fat or thin? Has it changed since three years ago? I think Mr. Cao He still changed. What kind What does it look like to be you? What is it like screw you Miss, please don't be embarrassed. From now on, you can just be happy. You dead girl The son-in-law pays his respects to his father-in-law Forget it. Thank you, father-in-law Really, there has been no news for three years. Why are you back now? Ah, where is the old man? My father has passed away Death is death. How did he die? I heard he lost money in gambling. Starving to death on the streets My father was a scholar. My son-in-law is not talented but he is quite knowledgeable How could he possibly go in and out of those rogue places? This is indeed an unexpected change. It's really hard to put it into words Okay, don't be sad. Sit down and talk slowly. So you guys are being taken advantage of by foreigners. That foreigner is unreasonable. Claiming the order is fake The county government was afraid of foreigners My father died of anger in Guangzhou Father-in-law, I see that the house is decorated with lights and colorful decorations. Like there's something happy going on If there is a place where I can use my son-in-law You can order No, no, nothing's wrong You have come a long way, so take a rest first. We'll talk later if there's anything. My father-in-law and son-in-law have come here to ask for help. If we can transport my father's coffin back to his hometown I will never forget the kindness of my father-in-law Zhao Gui Small in Take Master Cao to rest My son-in-law will leave for now. Mr. Cao, please Neighbors, listen carefully. I am the eldest daughter-in-law of the owner of Jinxin Pawnshop. Three years ago, I married into the Li family and it was less than three months His son died and returned to the west. I want to kill this bitch with a knife Get her out of the pawn shop. The shopkeeper's wife is not afraid of hard tactics. You are hard, she is hard too The loser can't even handle a woman. What do you eat? well Li Bopi, listen to me. From today Aunt, I come to your place every day to make trouble I'll make you turn the world upside down. I am not your aunt Li Bopi I fuck her great-grandmother for eight generations She fucked What else did she say She also said that she would not make a scene She is not the shopkeeper's aunt You can't even learn to speak. You didn't see it The master sent someone to check the backyard. What is he going to do? Is this even a question? Of course, to seal it. The news that Master Cao is back No matter him How did the master arrange for Mr. Cao? The master's attitude towards Mr. Cao is very cold Let him stay in a guest room in the East Courtyard temporarily. What are your plans for next? It's not clear yet Sister, please stay What are you going to do? What does this mean? Please accept it, Miss. Why are you giving me money for no reason? Just now in front of the pawn shop I see that the young lady is forced to I was deeply moved The weasel has no good intentions when it pays New Year's greetings to the chicken Monks are compassionate and have no other intentions. What kind of shit do you pull? I know you're going to get out of my way. Miss You are so brave. How dare you set your sights on me in broad daylight? I dare not ask Miss Meng not to abandon me I am willing to wait until dark Don't be delusional. You are a bald ass and you still want to mess around with women I tell you Even if I don't close the door at night I don't think you dare to go beyond the line. Miss, you are absolutely right. But I don't know where the lady lives. Can you tell me? You are dreaming. I am upright. It's definitely not a money-hungry slut, get out of the way master Master, I just saw Li Neng. I just realized you were sitting here. Go back to the house, don't catch a cold No, no, go back to the house, I feel even more upset Have you given all the instructions to your subordinates? I have given all the instructions. I'm next to an old lady Maids and servants I told you all Whoever brings Cao Wenhuang back The news leaked Who was fired? It has to be this way Otherwise, their mouths itch Sir, there are still some. Do you think we Let's talk about the Yao family's wedding tomorrow. Keep talking See what else you didn't expect. I have thought of everything I should have thought of. I just didn't expect Cao Wenhuang to come back alive I thought he died in Guangzhou. It's dead, right? So I didn't write the divorce agreement. This time he's back. It's like a piece of dog-skin plaster stuck on How can I reveal this? What's wrong with this? This ugly daughter-in-law will have to meet her parents-in-law sooner or later Then we can confront each other face to face Make it clear to him and let him go. At most I can give him some money. Just send him away I watched him grow up since he was a kid. As stubborn as a donkey like his father That's not You can't get rid of them with just a few bucks. Shopkeeper's If the young lady continues to make trouble like this every day Our pawn shop business is no longer viable. Unfortunate family situation I have never lacked virtue in my life. Such a jinx Shopkeeper, you don't have to be angry. The priority We have to find a way to deal with her. If you ask me, I'll kill her with one knife. Killing someone for a life is absolutely unacceptable In my opinion It's better to find someone to tie her up and take her to another place. Sold to a brothel Hey, this is a trick Master, we'll sacrifice the pawns to save the chariot. Lost him. How to throw a pawn? That big living person The living cannot become dead. You didn't eat? Shopkeeper's You all go down The shopkeeper's business is done. They start in the dead of night Good to do it cleanly We can't let Zhang Baiwan get any evidence against us. Mr. Cao, please please Master Cao has arrived Mr. Cao, come, come, please sit down. Please take a seat Zhao Gui, you go. Mr. Cao, please take a seat. Mr. Cao 1 We won't wait for the master. The master is busy and can't get away This won't come in a while. I'll drink first. Butler, please forgive me. Today is the 57th anniversary of my father's death. Poor him, his body is left in a foreign land I can't bring his coffin back. What an unfilial son. Look, look, look You are so sad I don't feel good at all. This is all my and my master's fault. No, no ... The younger generation is sad I also want to thank my father-in-law and your hospitality. My father and father-in-law are both elders Mr. Cao, no matter what You also have to drink these three cups of wine from your father-in-law. It is hard to refuse the kindness of my father-in-law. How about this? Where is this cup of wine? I respect my father's spirit in heaven and hope he can return to his homeland soon Yes, yes, you should drink it. It's also wrong not to drink it. Mr. Cao is coming What about the second cup of wine? I respect my late mother and mother-in-law I hope they bless My second daughter and I will live a peaceful life Please Please Who is it? It's me, Miss. The monk you saw during the day You are very brave to climb over the wall. Miss, I am in urgent need of help. I'm here to give the lady some money. You really need to honor your mother. Put the silver under the window Where did you come from? Get out of here Miss, you and I share the same suffering. Why not show mercy? Please let me in to chat. This third cup of wine You should respect your father-in-law and your housekeeper. this How about losing? There's still one bowl you haven't finished yet. How did I lose? Good, good, monks don't gossip. You will lose with a clear conscience. Miss, hurry up Go fast master Master, this Mr. Cao Don't be in a hurry. Speak slowly. This Cao Wenhuang In order to mourn for his father, he didn't drink alcohol. I spent half a day He didn't even move his chopsticks. So he's not dead. Amitabha Amitabha Look, Cao Wenhuang is not dead. You are down Amitabha He must not die What are we going to do about our marriage tomorrow? I wanted to discuss this with you. Look, you are saying Amitabha. I know I need to know you like this I won't discuss this with you. You shouldn't have come to discuss this with me. Who is it? It's my second lady's maid Xiuxiang My lady is here. Mr. Cao, please open the door Second Miss It's Yugu Although my younger sister Yu Gu and my foolish brother were born in a merchant family Also a descendant of Shuxiu You and I are engaged But not yet the wedding night The lady came to visit at midnight Angry brother can't open the door What would it be like if someone saw me? Mr. Cao, I tell you to stop being so bookish. My lady has something very important to do. I want to discuss with you Let's talk about it tomorrow. Tomorrow, it will be too late. Miss, please go back quickly. I hope you will respect yourself. Sergeant Sergeant I know you are a well-educated gentleman. But my little sister Nor are they those frivolous women who are idle and idle I never leave my boudoir. Today is really a desperate situation I dared to come to meet you You know the house is decorated with lights and colorful decorations. What are you going to do? I don't know I asked them They all hesitated and refused to speak Hey, hey, what are you doing? I'm checking to see if your door is closed. I just closed it. No one can come in Come here Okay, okay, stop shouting. There is always trouble at the door of a widow Aren't you afraid of people hearing it? Sued you Didn't I want to have sex with the lady sooner? I can't stand loneliness Then why did you become a monk? I don't think you are a real monk. Who said I'm a real monk? If it weren't for the fact that I broke some rules in the past few years Let the abbot drive him out Besides, if that didn't happen The lady and I are not destined to be together. Okay, it's not time yet. Don't move your hands. Fight well, fight well, fight well Hit it again, hit it again Let me hit you, I won't hit you anymore, tell me You really like me Or just take advantage and run away I swear to God If I didn't really like you Five thunders from heaven Okay, okay. I want your sincerity. Who asked you to swear? Look what this is. Red belt Do you know what it's used for? Tie your pants And what else I can't guess it. You are such a dumb ass. This is what you use. Ignorance is not my fault. My foolish brother has come from thousands of miles away I really don't know about these situations I hope my younger sister and Xiuxiang will forgive me. Forgiveness or not forgiveness is not a big deal Just what you said just now This makes my lady very sad. You put our lady What kind of person have you become? You know I heard you were killed in Guangzhou My lady is in agony Hideka I prefer to say The master forced her to marry again. She carried a three-foot white silk in her arms. Preparing for the wedding at Yao's house Hanging myself to bear you But you I think you have a lot of knowledge for nothing. I can't even tell the good from the bad. I really deserve to be scolded. I really deserve to be scolded Okay, okay, stop talking nonsense. Please invite the lady into the house. Discuss countermeasures quickly Yes, Yugu Miss, time is running out. Let's go inside and discuss it. We'll settle this account with him later. Go now We have a rule here. What rules All widows who remarry On the first night, the groom's hand With the belt means Even if I don't tell you, you should know it. You tell me, tell me It means to put your body On my waistband Don't even think about running away for the rest of your life. About Elopement Only in this way can we survive Cao Gongzi I have never seen Mr. Cao. A coward like you who is afraid of wolves and tigers Tell you Our lady is sincere to you. If you continue to be so indecisive When the Yao family's bridal sedan arrives tomorrow You can't escape even if you want to. Xiuxiang is right. There is no time to lose. We must leave now. Now, it's midnight. You're such a nerd Wait till tomorrow morning Everyone in the mansion got up. Where are you running to? Oh then let's go now and I'll clean up. Hey Miss Miss Miss Speak softly. Speak softly. Aren't you afraid that the neighbors will hear you? How long will you tie this up? My hand is numb The numbness will go away after a while Ten incense sticks are called ten hearts and ten intentions. This is less than three incense sticks. You want to be indecisive with me, right? Who said I was sincere? You really make me happy Let's find a place to rest first. It's not good. It's so late at night. The inn no longer accepts guests. Even if we receive guests, we dare not go in. You're thoughtful. How about we stay at my sister's house for a night? Leave early tomorrow morning Is it far away? Do you know It seems that if you turn from there, you will get there. Very close master The Cao Wenhuang incident Cao Wenhuang is missing What? Why is he missing? Where would he be so late at night? Did you go to the backyard to see it? I searched the front and back yards. There's not even a shadow of a person. Master, Master, Master Hey, what's all the fuss? The second lady is missing. What? Will he run away with Cao Wenhuang? It's possible, sir. Did you guys collude? You released her and came back to report. The thief cries thief Sir, you can't just accuse good people. I just woke up The light in the lady's room is on. I asked her to turn off the lights but she didn't answer I went over and saw that the lady was gone. If I had known this earlier I might as well not file a complaint. Okay, okay. The master said you should say two words master This elopement is usually a matter between two people. It's not easy for this third person to interfere. Then why are you still standing there? Call someone to look for it with a lantern. Really? Catch up hurry up Quick, quick, quick Who is it? My sister is me Sister, open the door! It's Yugu You wait. I got dressed and got out of bed Stay still and don't make any noise. elder sister Why are you here so late at night? Something's up This is This is Cao Wenhuang, Master Cao I just came back from Guangzhou today and I met my sister. We came here so abruptly that we disturbed my sister. Long story short The Yao family is coming to welcome the bride tomorrow I eloped with Master Cao Thinking of staying here for one night You and I are sisters, don't even mention staying overnight. It's nothing even if it's only a year or two. Well, thank you, sister. But tonight You can't live here with me Sister, you are kidding. Catch him now, don't let him run away Run and catch him master What are you still standing there for? Knock on the door quickly Hey Miss, Miss Go inside Open the door quickly Has your sister been here with that guy named Cao? Who is it late at night? Get up quickly. I have something to ask you. Have they been here? Came and left Look, Yugu and the others have nowhere to go. Please open the door and let me in. They're gone Go chase him now. My dear daughter, please don't lie to your father. The Yao family will come to pick up the bride early tomorrow morning. How can I explain that there is no bride? I told you they're gone Why don't you believe it? You just open the door They either leave before I turn around No one, why should I open the door? simply Let's use a human ladder to climb over the wall. Yeah, hurry up. Come come come Quick Master Slower Open the door, open the door. If you don't open it, I will smash it. Okay, okay, let's see. Is there anyone in the house? I can't find the person. I'm not done with you. Zhao Gui Li Neng exist Search for me now Master, I searched everywhere here. The lady is not talking nonsense. There's not even a shadow of a person. No, I didn't look for it. I didn't search carefully enough. Daughter Get out of the way, let me open it and take a look I'm talking to you, did you hear me? This cabinet is full of Torn quilt, torn pants, etc. What to see Get out of the way, open it for me yes Master, it's locked. Bring me the keys. I lost my key and I'm looking for a new one but I haven't found one yet I don't believe it if it's lost. This key can be lost. Really? Someone, bring the cabinet back to me. yes Don't lift my stuff. What are you not allowed to lift? What are you doing? The cabinet is too heavy to lift. There are two living people in there Of course you can't lift it. Visitors exist Get the bar and rope ready Carry the cabinet back to my house. yes Let it go This is my dowry and cannot be taken away Who cares about your dowry? Dad took it back and opened it to see If it's a dowry Dad will pay you double What if Yugu and the others are inside? Humph, I'll settle the score with you after the wedding. Get out of the way, get out of the way. Can't lift it fast Dad, what are you doing? What are you doing? Go! You are unreasonable, oh, dad OK Zhang Baiwan, you are not my father Bring it in Tap tap Tap Put out the torch first. Then stand in front of the door The master got the axe back. Go down and break open the cabinet. Li Neng broke the lock Good Zhao Gui opened the cabinet Oh my god, my god Hey, why are you making such a fuss? Sir, it's inside What is A dead person What is a dead person? Oh, the second lady is dead. master Oh, my daughter. Dad doesn't want to live anymore Sir, don't be like this, sir. Butler Zhao Gui and Li Neng, come and see Look what you see. Come here, all of you, come and see what's going on. Hu Guogaoxiang Zhou Lanying Jiao Guiran Hebei Film and TV Drama Production Center Joint Recording Permit No. 8A No. 011