- About 70,000 litres. And yes, those are real people, But if you just want to &quot;how much helium you well, an average adult in normal conditions, will provide enough so you'd need about 70,000 liters. Proving that, and finding and how you can also have a go... that's the rest of this video. I've wanted to do something Of course I have. I think lots of people have dreamt but as far as I knew, the logistics and safety unless you had a ridiculous budget. And then, someone told me and the budget dropped So the rest of this video it's just me, one of the team and about 70,000 liters of helium - This hangar was built in 1919. It was used first for to survey and fly over the coast to and in 2000 it goes out Be careful of your head. - Oh yeah, that is... - The history of the Aeroplume starts That blimp was created by a man who was called Jean-Pierre David, a French artist. - That was much easier - He discovered the world of and so, because he is an inventor, and an artist, an engineer, his own blimp, big enough to allow Since 2009, we propose people The other location is a cave, We propose the flight here during So if we just let you go down, and you won't be able to go down ever! - Right! to be free and autonome, I have to make you reach - Okay. depending on your weight, I can add some little weight in order to make you float. If we just take off this- - Oh! - What is happening? - Just floating. - We have three aeroplumes here We have a bigger one that we have one that can and one that can carry up to 45. Now you can take the Everything you will do, That's the same as if you were swimming. So first I will show You want the wings to be flat like this. In order to go, take - Like paddling a kayak. - Yeah, exactly the same as in a kayak. - And if I want to turn, it's with one? - Exactly, so you know how to turn. If you are doing only Don't react so quickly, but when it's turning, It will continue during a very long time, there is a lot of inertia, yeah? - Yeah. I didn't feel like I was turning at all and then suddenly I was. - Yeah. And we can also by pushing the air on To go up, the same as if When you go forward, the air - And that provides lift. - You have to switch - Oh! And this is every time like this, from the front to the back, you can feel it, the air If you want to go down, it'll - That feels so natural. - Yeah. At the beginning of the season we just choose to fill the blimp And with the time, there is some leaks, so we can just add some And really the one problem So there is the air present outside and once is in, we can't extract him. So the more we spend the time here, so the less it can carry. Once a year we have the obligation and refill again. Of course we are because it's very expensive When you don't do nothing, - Yeah, it starts to descend again. - The balloon is going down. That's because, and maybe but we made you reach and it depends on the temperature. - Oh, - I'm definitely going - That's why I just take off one kilogram. The higher you are, the hotter it is. Now you reach a new with the new condition of temperature. Because of the slow speed and the inertia, we have and that's why we are indoor, to be protected against the wind and all the variation of - I noticed you had a make sure that the door is closed, 'cause the slightest breeze [wings creak] would blow me completely off course. - There is no problem of safety because we are always linked by a little tether. - But the tether is slack. You're not holding me down here, I'm just floating. If you're slow and quiet enough, you will realize how to pilot and have the time to anticipate, Take some break and observe Yeah, you can rest like so. - Wow. - If it's too late to it will pull, not for your safety, but for the safety of the blimp, so many times it will break. That's not a pressurized balloon, that's just an envelope so the helium will just go out slowly, it will lose its capacity to carry, so the pilot will land slowly. - I'm amazed how calm and - It's happened one time here, some elements from the roof and the pilot didn't notice that. They were just trying to go, because the helium was - All right, permission to land? - Yeah. More than 10,000 flights and zero accidents. - Oh, you know what... I mean, it's not a spot on - If you can catch the table? - I'm going to try. There we go. - Catch it. - Got it. - Perfect, so I will just the blimp and I will allow you to go out. It was a really good flight. - I'm half expecting to take - No, she's attached to the ground! - You can. - Yeah, you can, if you want to. - Antoine, thank you so, so much. - It was great. - That was incredible,