Come on clap those hands if you're thankful. the place with praise, with our testimony. We of our testimony. Turn around and tell about just something you're thankful &quot;He woke me up.&quot; It can be as deep as, Just about two or three things to be thankful I have two or three things to be thankful for. three things to be thankful for. &quot;Goodness &quot;He forgave my past, and he's already in If there's anything you want to accomplish and you are single and they are &quot;I'm thankful they seated us next to one be in proximity to your anointing.&quot; How many Let me see how many of you grew up with the King 'Let us go into the house of the Lord.'&quot; It's a know if that's the case for you or not today, but so I think all of us who can be here ought Hey, Doe, it's so good to have you. of funny. I just thought of this. The last time I room one afternoon. We wrote that song &quot;New she was getting married. So, when she said, &quot;I've &quot;I've got a new thing coming. I mean that sermon. &quot;I mean that thing.&quot; Oh, I see so a Metallica tee shirt. I see a Panthers tee know three Whitney songs? Okay. She's nodding I personally am so grateful to get to pastor a city. I know a lot of people will say different or too baggy or things like that, and that's about this church is your heart for the hurting of people like to argue about who believes the out there and show the love of Jesus, it kind I bring greetings to all of our locations, our eFam around the world. Let's welcome our you're joining from. Now I get to serve you too. I'm only going to read one verse before I I didn't say I'm only going to preach one and then we'll talk about two times in the see an illustration of faith is what we all you should trust God&quot; or &quot;Hey, it's &quot;How do you know that? You've never The Bible gave us all of these case studies. went through something worse than we're going them. We hitch our faith to this. So, that's two heroes in the Bible. I'll tell you about that In 2 Corinthians 5:7 (I'm using a little bit more literal translation Paul says parenthetically, in talking about body and the immortality of the eternity that eight words that are very, very salient. not by sight.&quot; It's only eight words. I'll say Now touch your neighbor and give it's the motion that matters.&quot; We had a special come and bring their teams, and there was a people who were in the first six to eight microphone for question and answer, which I was feeling anointed, and I was feeling one guy asked a great question. I but I remember he said, &quot;At four months in, you need at this stage?&quot; Again, this don't remember how many, but he thought I He said, &quot;At this stage, what do you think is &quot;Four months in. Most important skill.&quot; I love Spirit will bring up to help somebody. I try God wants me to say. My first thought was to go and good procedures for accountability, and spiritual and practical. Then it came to me I said, &quot;I think the most important skill for because there are going to be so many things giving him examples, like when we cleared out we gave the offering away instead people to go be a blessing in their I told him about the egg drop when we dropped two months into the church and gave away Xboxes news fighting over the Xbox. And they didn't. So kept listing, like I was going through a highlight Well, I can't say God stopped me, but something and something on the inside of me said, &quot;If You have stepped out in faith, and and this church have stepped out in faith over this guy and not just impress him, I want you in faith and tell him what the real most important keep telling him what you did and what God did know some of what you felt while you did what So, I shifted my answer in the middle. I said, know I didn't plan this pivot, but I didn't. &quot;But even more importantly than to feel an amazing sense of courage and 'We're taking this mountain. We're a hundred thousand hours to our community in LOVE I had to have LOVE Week but I felt hateful. I things about me that weren't true. I had to maybe the most important skill isn't just stepping Now, I almost called this sermon that: &quot;Step Out how religious you are, and you would say unto me, faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave tossed to and fro. Let not that Why do you only talk in King James by the way? &quot;Let not that man think Lord. He is a double-minded man.&quot; I love that a lot of times, when we see an example of great that wherever there was the demonstration of great Anybody who stepped out in faith... By the it's a concept in the Bible. It just said we doesn't necessarily negate the flip side of hope to show you a little bit today, just I know you're trying to figure out, &quot;What a 2-year-old? What is the most important you would even say, &quot;And you don't even I would suggest that whether 62 or 16, a the most important skill you will to step out not only when the feeling of faith faith makes it necessary even though the I am a skeptic. My kids will tell you, &quot;What's your source?&quot; They will tell me They will tell me the craziest stuff about about my own staff that they heard. They will on in the larger world of... I don't know. They talk dinner table. &quot;Did you know steroids are good The other day, Graham said the &quot;Dad...&quot; And he said it like a fact, just a flat &quot;That is the dumbest thing I've ever heard. That's it's not.&quot; And it wasn't like a disrespectful at me and said, &quot;Yes, it is true.&quot; I said, &quot;It thing.&quot; &quot;Oh! Oh! You saw a thing. Oh, well, now &quot;Son, I know you saw a thing, but you've got to source the thing you saw if give you three points at the very beginning these are just the points that will build the Write them down. They all start with and if you are wondering today if you can make happening at all times. First, you behold. We behold. We believe. We behave. We behold. We have never lived in a time where you see and I behave a way. I see a thing... I don't even &quot;I'll have to see it to believe it.&quot; Now I have the trees that were in my backyard this morning real. Put my hand through the tree to see if I don't know if they really said that. I get all the time. &quot;Look at what this political out they didn't say any of that. They made the be honest with y'all. It's a weird time to do you stuff I said that I didn't say or slice So, people will want to come up to me... &quot;Oh, they did? Did you hear it? Did you see it?&quot; I've unless you can source it.&quot; Now, this is the kind because we want God to set us free of everything We want God to give us peace, but we don't that are making us anxious. I am trying to say &quot;I saw a thing.&quot; I'm not doubting that you saw a a thing is immature. For you to just see a thing your senses. Your senses are not your sensei when There is coming a time in your life where in a season of your life, for the challenges I have to calm down. I get excited because some of the things that are a problem in But before I believed a thing, I had to see a I will behave a way. Some of but we will not change what we behold. a thing. I didn't even check it out to So, now I have seen so many things, making me of a different political persuasion, and I data in my phone that now I behave in a way that who is bigger than either political party, but I Do you really believe we walk by faith not feeling. That means faith, biblical faith... I'm dream car, dream house, or dream beach. &quot;I'm going to staff an island, so I'm not manifesting that. But biblical faith, whose object is Jesus and resurrection from the dead...that kind of faith, by faith, the kind Paul is talking about in 2 Moses and Peter, two leaders who both needed Can you do that? Can I do that? Do I still was young and I was 26 with nothing to challenging me. Faith is not a feeling; I've ever given you. What it means is you What it means is all of the people who say, ever deal with that or struggle with that if you get to take them to 2 Corinthians 5:7 it is about the way I behave.&quot; I do not mean that if you don't behave mean is it's the motion that matters. Let me chapter 14, there is a Bible really love. It is called the parting of the it if you fast-forward to the part where it Just a sidenote. Don't you love the part it? I told a songwriting room the other oceans splitting or mountains moving in any say that we can.&quot; You know, it's powerful for this is the part in Exodus, chapter I'm going to use Exodus 14 and Matthew 14 that matters. You did the exact right thing expensive gas money to get to this because it's the motion that matters. fought all the way here and cussed You did the right thing to drag your cussing ears sanctified by the Word of God so you can cut week. It's the motion that matters. Don't judge from. You don't have a frame of reference for how They've come a long way. Moses and the children A 430-year cry to God that seemed unanswered, God sent a deliverer named Moses, who most important skill for this stage of life and I can't do it. I killed an Egyptian. How 'Let the people go'? What if they don't Moses, the non-motivational speaker, ends time because he stepped out in doubt. Prove me One of the greatest leaders God used told God he Well, he did all he could do. He He even got the Egyptians to give would not leave empty-handed. Now with the the children of Israel, two million strong, are Now here comes the part that I think is kind Verse 10: &quot;When Pharaoh drew near...&quot; Pharaoh they were free from, but they weren't quite yet. and then all of a sudden, Pharaoh... The chariots and his best fighting because not only have they lost their So Pharaoh drew near. &quot;...the people and behold...&quot; They saw something. They saw a thing. Touch your neighbor and say, &quot;I saw a thing.&quot; &quot;I I was trying to make it practical. &quot;I was doing pretty well. I wasn't texting season of my life straight, but I...&quot; Okay. Y'all and he... So now look at me all hypocritical, saw a thing and beheld something and In order to understand why you're behaving believing that way? And to understand why you're to what you beheld that made you believe that? So, judge the Israelites because...spoiler alert...they &quot;How could they do that? God turns seas They were living it. I'm living this. uncertain steps. I thought God would fix me but the truth is sometimes I will preach to you Now, in this particular instance, it's like you &quot;I could probably do that.&quot; No, you probably &quot;I think I probably could... No, I probably do a version of that, but not exactly that.&quot; really get in this text with me today. I told I know we have to use our senses to burned on stoves and walking across but we cannot make decisions with our senses when of our lives and the way we see ourselves and impact. Your senses will get you killed. Here's were marching after them, and they feared The sin is the decision after the feeling. God be free from it, you have to ask the question, dragging me back into a past I said I would leave back to stuff I know I'm done with? What do who love me? What do I keep remembering?&quot; with an old movie? An old movie. I'm talking 1988 The Devil keeps showing you stuff you to resist you anymore. All he has to do what you are beholding, because if you keep I'm talking about everything Yes, I'm talking about everybody who's vying expensive to keep giving it to things that I know what I'm saying. God said this to costing you your freedom. That If you could see how expensive it you would run from it, not welcome it. But we the expense and illuminates the benefits, the are in a physical moment. and there's probably nothing funny about what Watch how Moses wants to deal with this with it by faith. This will speak directly mind right now. Just for complete honesty, how many of you are dealing with uncertainty trying to figure out whether the doubt you to as caution or step forward because God is I can't tell you exactly right or wrong in this, Verse 10: &quot;They cried out to the Lord.&quot; That Right? They're very emotional, and they should but watch how quickly they forget what God just cancel out and make you forget how bad it really &quot;They said to Moses, 'Is it because there are to die in the wilderness? What have you done to we said to you in Egypt: &quot;Leave us alone would have been better for us to serve the Would it? Fear will make you think that. will make you think that. All three of those the great motivational speaker, is going to give we do now?&quot; Moses stands up. He's not a very good &quot;And Moses said to the people, 'Fear not...'&quot; that's more convincing. &quot;Fear not, stand which he will work for you today. you shall never see again.&quot; If y'all don't shout &quot;The Lord will fight for you, and you have only because he's wrong. It sounds good, but he's it is, but in this case it's wrong. There is a You can't cross it. There are chariots from So, Moses' advice right here... One translation before, &quot;Be still and know that he is God.&quot; this moment, for this Moses, for this nation, for Watch God. I love God. &quot;The Lord said to that's not very nice, Jehovah-Jireh. You're because you're Jehovah-Nissi, my banner. I'm my peace. I'm crying to you because I can't Moses is old, and the people are angry, travel with five kids, allot an extra travel with two million... This isn't going &quot;I know you have a lot on you, and I know it &quot;Tell the people of Israel to go forward.&quot; You Moses, &quot;Mosetta&quot; (I want to preach to whatever it is you're looking at right emotions. They can be helpful guides to get with the emotion endlessly just creates you out of. The only way to deal with it is He said, &quot;You can cry about this all day. We about it. You can quote about it. You can do all is for you to tell the people to go forward.&quot; Then I thought was significant and kind of silly in the &quot;Lift up your staff, and stretch out that the people of Israel may go &quot;Oh, well, that will totally work.&quot; How eyes I'll never even know. We have this like, &quot;Yeah, that's the way it works. the thing. He did it. I saw a thing. I his staff.&quot; There's a difference between I guarantee you all of my scholarly that Moses' hand was shaking because he was old his hand was shaking did not stop the sea from a shaky hand. You can do it with knocking knees. Taylor. I can do it with a broken heart. I can make progress in a cloudy condition. of you today just lifted your hands freely, I keep meeting people who say, then I'll praise God. Sometimes I don't want you've been so good to me,' because good to me.&quot; But I realized something Praise is how I tell the Red Sea, &quot;You stand here. &quot;You stand here. You stand there.&quot; it's the motion that matters. You think you need Stop thinking you need an external upgrade. &quot;I will step out not just when I feel something, not just when I have a good idea. I'll step shines.&quot; I'm telling you the most important skill (maybe you do; you can go study it and write me They're still mad at Moses. Moses is certainly they don't thank me for I get mad at. This is a I think sometimes we stay stuck in resentment, and keep us anchored to situations we could move Everything you feel God cares about. Everything But you have to let him move through you by you never gain strength or freedom, whatever the verse. One whole word God gave me here that He said, &quot;If you be still, you get killed.&quot; &quot;Why are you telling me about this problem? I thought to myself, &quot;Wait a minute. They're children. All of the people chasing them there's nothing you can do to catch up now? &quot;Even if I run as fast as I can, I have to &quot;Go forward.&quot; Watch this. Not fast, just fast.&quot; I know you're loaded down by a lot know you didn't get that kind of training, you've wasted away some opportunities. I know you closed a few doors on some people who be some things you're going to have to navigate too big and what's behind you is too fast, but forward. Why? Because after the water parts for You're on foot, and Pharaoh has wheels, so it but there's one thing your enemy didn't count wheels don't work in water. If he should have brought a boat, because what God said, &quot;I'm not looking for looking for you to make up for time you I'll redeem the years the cankerworm I'll deal with your credit. I'll deal with Wheels don't work in water. there's not a thing the Devil can do to drag I don't have to be fast; I just have to move my slow feet. You will journey with me now sea in Scripture. We're covering a If I may, fast-forward for a moment because you want to be like this guy so foul-mouthed, gospel-preaching Peter. Ol' Peter. Ol' Simon Peter. Ol' crazy Peter. Ol' it and then took his boat and did whatever Matthew, chapter 14, says Jesus performed and children. I told you last week, It doesn't matter how many there &quot;Greater is he that is in...&quot; I have to teach y'all step out in doubt and change it to faith. The step is what makes it faith, the behavior. You have to and then behaving, but if we could switch it... If you could believe and behave you would behold things you don't see a thing. You'll see a thing, and you'll You'll see a thing, you'll feel a thing, and against me will prosper.&quot; You'll see a thing, not my self-righteousness that I have been so that no one can boast.&quot; You'll see a thing, show you things all the time in your mind. Oh He showed Jesus all of the kingdoms of this world but Jesus saw another thing. I want to chapter 14. The Bible says the disciples got to go to the other side. Tell your neighbor, so you cannot die in this storm.&quot; Tell them, but you can't quit, because Now Matthew 14. After feeding 5,000 the disciples get into the boat and while he dismissed the crowds.&quot; Notice what he didn't give them: information. Notice I thought about my dog Bo here. I don't know kind of a big deal in the church, because responsible enough to have a dog. I was right, of course, have done wonderfully prophecy I had of his irresponsibility Bo is an anxiety dog. Not that he helps us and incrementally, it's getting worse. I'll picture was sent to us while we were away and ministering. One of our wonderful people We all said to each other, &quot;We can't freaking out losing his mind or having the the same face. That's how he looks when he's happy. So you can't really tell There are two things Bo will be scared of, don't think he had them when we first please don't send me the emails for how to supervision of a wonderful veterinarian, Anytime he sees a suitcase or he's afraid of two things: a suitcase and seen those before. Sometimes when he sees He didn't even have time to miss us. But I think he likes us, because when the suitcase How many of you all, your dog does the same &quot;I don't know how long it's going to communicate this to me.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;I'll see The disciples are like, &quot;Yeah, there a while? Are you coming tonight? you're tired.&quot; None of that. &quot;This is no time stamp. I can't fast-forward to Jesus certainly didn't tell them what happened but they had a storm. That's the second thing see anything or even really hear anything. This trust God at all... If I tell you he can smell a &quot;Thursday, 2:00 p.m., I need to have a panic The dog is losing his mind, and we're working on to say that we all deal with suitcases and the dog. &quot;I don't know how long I'm going I don't know how long they're going to like to leave me like the last person did. with it. Not because of the transition Imagine now you are not only a but as you are transitioning... Verse 23: &quot;And on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening time was a long way from the land, beaten by Now I have a suitcase and a storm. I would front of Bo. I think it might be his last time in your life. It's a transition and and I have things validating that this may not be As they are rowing... Visibility their lives in the balance, their future Right? I want you to see something in the against them. And in the fourth watch of the But when the disciples saw [a thing] walking on But they don't know that. They just see a thing. the thing they're afraid of is the thing they on the sea. &quot;They were terrified and said, 'It is in fear. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, Now I need to ask a question. I am not can do whatever he wants with what says all things were created by and not anything that was made was made but I am not surprised he can transcend can suspend the laws of buoyancy. Look at verse 25. I'm surprised... &quot;Why shouldn't you run? Shouldn't you hurry &quot;Why are you walking, God? Why are brother Lazarus is sick? Why are Jesus?&quot; The question is...Why don't you? &quot;It is I. Do not be afraid.&quot; Next verse. &quot;And Peter answered him, 'Lord, if it is &quot;Oh, you've got to step out on what is. Faith is see it right now, so I have to step out on doubt. tossed and driven...&quot; You're quoting the verse not your confidence in you. Peter he just questions, &quot;Is it you?&quot; That's How many of you are walking on an if command me to come to you on the water.&quot; Bo. &quot;Come.&quot; That's like how you talk to a you do next in your life. Sometimes you are you overcomplicate it. Sometimes it is as &quot;If it's you, tell me to come.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;Well, no. &quot;Come. I'll show you who I am while you walk your Bible, I'll show you who I am while you walk did and own that thing and move forward in it root issue so it doesn't happen again, I'll &quot;For we walk by faith, not &quot;Come.&quot; Verse 29: &quot;So Peter got out of the boat Maybe all he could do in that moment was walk. I water than to run on it. Or maybe there's will renew their strength. They will walk and is. It's walking by faith. It's stepping You have to do this thing doubting so God next step. That is how I see you. I who doesn't really trust God because you're your prayers. I don't see you that way. Jesus does not rebuke you for your feelings, punishing yourself for having the wrong does. Keep showing up. Keep saying, &quot;Okay. the discipline of discipleship. It's not how fast you can get to him. Peter fast he gets to Jesus, because he's walking. &quot;When he saw the wind, he was afraid...&quot; he lost sight of someone who was It's the motion that matters. The wind what knocked you down. It was when your who is greater than all things. That's he was afraid, and beginning to Jesus immediately reached out his hand and little faith, why did you doubt?'&quot; You're like, did he? You won't drown stepping out. and plan your funeral in the place of your But if you move forward, God has something fresh word for you. God has manna everywhere waiting for the right time to come up out it's not how fast Peter could get to Jesus. It's not how fast you can get to Jesus; the motion that matters. So, let's wage not how quickly the panic attack comes on middle of the attack and deliver you from the It has never hinged on your gift. It has never hinged on your right stepping. the step that counts. It's this. Does where he is teaching you to reach If I could tell you one skill it's to reach for him when you sink like You keep getting taught that you can't come Peter. He got back into the boat and set I don't care if it was two seconds. He beat Bartholomew. All they got was a boat bronze. You can have silver. Give me my gold but he reached out and I stood, and got motion! I got a miracle because I've Just about the time Peter sees a thing (the Jesus. I want you to see another thing, and if you can believe, you will behold. I'm trying you have to believe it to see it. of the abundance of rain.&quot; The man said, &quot;Go back.&quot; Why? Because it's the motion that &quot;I can see a cloud heavy with rain, and it I can see a cloud heavy with rain... Yeah, I see the wind, but I see something else. It looks like revival headed my way... Yeah, I see the bills, but I see something else. I can see a cloud heavy with rain Tell Pharaoh, &quot;It's headed our way!&quot; [Worship] hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus