Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, Now, let's begin. You're not alone. A recent Gallup poll showed frequently feeling stressed. That's up 16 our lives are only getting more overwhelming as better - Gallup also discovered in 2022 that well. Whether it's the daily grind of work and there are plenty of environmental But it doesn't have to be this way. By stepping you can start to identify ways to bring calm attention to your physical wellbeing, deepening slow down, you can take control of your life and here are 12 habits to help you relax. Stress can be isolating - when you feel like the possibly understand. That's why it's important to of your own head and gain some much-needed through volunteer service can help you forge new giving you a renewed sense of meaning and purpose. friends - whether that's meeting for a cup for a five-minute catch-up chat. If your then invite friends or family to tackle or take a stroll together while running errands. the production of oxytocin, the "happy hormone" to cuddle with, consider adopt a pet - as long as in doing so. Pets have been proven to reduce 2. Practice Mindfulness help you balance your emotions, quiet your anxious mind. The goal of mindfulness is to focus on the in feelings of regret over the past or concerns much-needed grounding in what is right in front Techniques include meditation, where you sit repeating a word or phrase that gives you peace. feelings, then release them. A yoga practice can while getting some much-needed stretching and 3. Get Enough Exercise linked. Getting regular physical exercise can help regulate negative feelings including stress to 30 minutes of moderate physical activity per OK. Simply taking a daily walk, riding a bike, or rate up and increase your mobility. Choose the objects in your house for strength training. to sun increases your Vitamin D level, the fresh air and new surroundings can help 4. Reduce Your Screentime face in the news and social media can be totally taunting, or simply comparing yourself to daily from our screens can contribute to feelings Exposure to the blue light and computers can cause vision problems to not feeling your best. It also disrupts put down your phone at least an hour before 5. Breathe Deeply too quickly or shallowly, your body is mimicking the physical motions of this can cause you down your heart rate and provide a quick jolt of Square breathing can help calm your body and four as you breathe in, count to four as you hold then hold again for a count of four. Then regular and slow, while centering your mind 6. Get Some Sleep to a healthy body - and a healthy mind. replenish. A good night's sleep leaves you with and happier mood, allowing you to learn new things Most adults should get between 7 to 9 hours of restful place - cool, dark, tidy, and peacefully your bedroom to limit distractions and stressful at approximately the same time every day. It will 7. Start Journaling down whatever is on your mind - including your to recognize and process your negative emotions, your journal can help you stay organized, which Set a specific time to worry and then write down - where you don't write about a specific topic mind - can help unlock some of your hidden what is really bothering you, which is the 8. Practice Positive Thinking change the direction of your entire day. If you forcing yourself to think about the positive. What grand as the loving support of your partner, or as A formal gratitude practice helps you acknowledge it by making a list of things you are about them with a few sentences each. Or it can or setting out to write a simple thank you note, 9. Eat a Healthy Diet These include those rich in magnesium, like those rich in zinc like egg yolks, beef, liver, make sure you're always keeping your body cause negative feelings like confusion and anger. Meal prepping is a smart way to ensure no matter how much you have going on. Stocking nutritious meals means you'll always have access makes it too busy for you to cook. There are certain exercises developed by designed to relieve feelings of panic or anxiety. but the science behind it is real. Flexing your and helps you release pent up tension. Holding an can help stop a panic spiral, taking you out as your body tries to regulate its temperature. can also bring you back to your body and center you can touch, three you can hear, two you can feeling more grounded and present in no time. Reading and listening to music are both fun, much anywhere and at any time. Taking time can help reduce stress. These specific Music helps regulate your nervous system emotions. A happy song will make you feel light and then release negative feelings. Reading is an escape from daily life, taking you to faraway 12. Take a Step Back minute to pause and reflect on what is happening. only human, and your feelings are real, natural, feelings, then do your best to let them go. Make sure you are focusing on what matters most battle all the time. Make two lists - one of your for the next few years. Examine your daily life and supporting your long-term goals. be sure to subscribe because more