The space shuttle wasn't like anything spacecraft and it promised to make routine. And so by the 1970's America only be used once, and went all in on Challenger, the discovery, the Atlantis minute, this is not one of the space In 1988, the world learned that the They had been secretly developing it for billions. But maybe you've never heard of because the Soviet Space Shuttle only it was flawed. Actually its first launch it was actually more capable and robust after its first launch, the Soviet And to understand why, you need to go Soviets would have learned that the conventional rockets with a new reusable wouldn't have been concerned. After all, reusable spacecraft and space planes. And the Soviets were pretty busy with other space projects. They were still in the ambitious plans for a space station, even mood had changed, the Soviets had grown paranoid that the American space shuttle might also be used as a space weapon. shuttle program and what they found was program, well, just didn't line up with what the Americans were actually building. For one, the shuttle promised to make getting into space cheaper. But the Soviets could costs were actually going to be higher replace. And the shuttle program promised an incredible 60 launches a year, giving the Americans the ability to get a lot than they had been previously able to. plans that called for so many launches. scientific goals were starting to look military program. The Soviets suspected something like, say, a laser weapon into earth for further development. could militarize space a lot quicker be used to capture a Soviet spy earth for study. And to compound Soviet were quietly building a second launch Force Base in California. And here's the from there and by its first orbit it's the Soviet Union. So the shuttle could in faster than any Soviet nuclear delivery for the Soviet Union shuttle, but few involved in the Soviet type craft. But four years after the shuttle, the Kremlin quietly gave the go-ahead to start developing a Soviet counterpart be called Buran and its research and guarded secret for years. When the Shuttle on April 12 1981, which awkwardly enough was the 20th anniversary of the Soviets launching the first man into blasted the Americans for putting in reminded viewers that the Soviet Union's science and humanity. Very few Soviet citizens would have known that their own government was There's no way around it the Buran Shuttle, and it's got nothing to do with goal had been to build something that the Space Shuttle and with a lot of Shuttle freely available and what happened next. But here's the thing, about getting into space, so they didn't designed a better Space Shuttle the Space Shuttle and the Buran actually orbiter uses integrated reusable main tank. But because the main engines were into orbit, it also needed the help of the Buran didn't have integrated engines, a separate super-heavy rocket called It consisted of a core stage and four was a single system, the Buran orbiter two separate systems. While the Shuttle reusable, in practice it required which offset a lot of its advantage, but the Shuttle's integrated engines no the Shuttle's mission, it was forced to dead weight. This meant that the Buran the Space Shuttle, but more importantly advantage: flexibility. The Energia the Buran attached, and that meant it Without the Buran, the Energia rocket could launch an astounding 100 tons. That's three Space Shuttles worth of stage uses solid rocket boosters. The solid rocket boosters is, once they're them off. The Energia's liquid-fueled even shut off completely in an emergency. And in an emergency, the Buran had ejection seats for the entire crew, which all the way up to 20 miles. seats and only for two crew members. all. From the outset the Buran was also meaning it could be launched, put into any crew on board. Automated flight couldhave been used for rescue missions and an empty Buran could be sent up to another stranded orbiter. The Buran's The western media was impressed. Especially by it's fully automatic landing system. On that autumn day in 1988 the future of Soviet space flight - at least from an outsider's perspective - looked promising. The media speculated that the Buran would be used to build space stations, or manned mission to Mars. Of course none of that ever happened the Buran was only launched once. In the late 1980's the it funding for the Buran was limited, and questions started rolling in about the job, but the entire program was starting American Space Shuttle, the Buran was Americans the Russians still had other could launch payload into orbit six Soviet Union hadn't collapsed, well, we assemble orbital space stations, or Or maybe not. The Soviets had been so the American Shuttle they wanted their quickly became pretty much the only goal. In the final days of the Soviet Union, when it was clear that the American potential, the Soviet military no longer the Soviet space community was left with and largely without a real purpose