Mr. Ji, you and Wen Qiao have been talking for such a long time. Meet the head of the family. Hello Wen Qiao, your grandma is almost unable to hold on. Bring your boyfriend back and show him. Let him go without worry. I'm about to bring the poor master here You're not really planning to marry him, are you? You also know about the marriage bridge. His parents didn't want him since he was a child. Grew up in the slums with his grandmother Hum, why would I marry a woman of this status? Just for fun Yeah, he's not worthy of you. Not as good as me Come on, let's drink hahaha Drinking Drinking Drinking Drinking Pingzhou Didn't you say you would come to the hospital to see my grandma today? I waited for you all day Wenqiao, today is my birthday You let me see a dying person. Unlucky or not It's bad luck Sit here as long as you are good Wait till your grandma dies I will give her a decent funeral. Pingzhou Happy birthday but Wen Qiang, you dare to hit me Bring him back to me. stop Stop, you want to run after fighting this battle? Come back with me and apologize. Go Faster Stop come my way Hahaha ha Take it Hello, Miss Chen You said before Nin Na Li You Yi Wei Ji Zhao Jie Hun De Chen Xian Sheng Really? Please arrange it. I want to see him as soon as possible Ni Hao Qing Wen Shi Chen It's you You are the one who saved me last night do you remember His expression looks so familiar What's going on? Chen Xian Sheng Zhi Shi Zuo Wan Jiu Guo Wo Yi Ci Er Yi Why do I have such a picture in my mind? Um ah I didn't expect it to be such a coincidence I was introduced by Sister Chen to go on a blind date with you. Thank you for last night Do you only remember what happened last night? I had a brain injury when I was in college. I don't remember many things. We've met before fine You continue Sister Chen probably told you about my situation. I am in such a hurry to get married because my grandmother She is seriously ill now. Want to see me get married soon Sister Chen said you work in a private company You're getting married this time Is it because your family is forcing you to get married in a hurry? As far as I know It seems that Miss Wen already has a boyfriend. Why are you here for a blind date today? How could I marry a woman of this status? Because he doesn't want to marry me Mr. Shui minds that I have an ex-boyfriend Sorry, I'm leaving now. He doesn't cherish you It's him who should be damned you What did you just say? I said Miss Wen, let's get married today Why don't you dare Miss Wen, if you are worried We can try marriage first. Um Then try marriage for half a year Not open to the public This won't affect your remarriage. I just have one request. When we divorced I don't want my grandma to know Good deal Ni Jiao Chen Du This name sounds so familiar. Do you regret marrying me? A little bit What I mean is I regret not getting over my last relationship sooner. Ecology Our first year has finally begun i'm giving you all my friends Is this really your husband? A real grandma I am married Chen Du Hao Yan Shou You know him I think he is like a god in heaven It's for you So grandma, don't worry. Don't worry. Look at how useless grandma has been for dragging you down all these years. Grandma, what are you saying? Without you I can't survive at all I only ask you I just ask you to feel sorry for me again Stay with me for a while My Qiaoqiao finally got married I will never be alone again. Help me get that. What are you doing Since receiving the certificate Haven't seen you for a month. Sometimes I really forget that I am married Mr. Wang invited him to dinner last weekend. The first two got into a BMW after work. Look at him crying. That look I don't know which man she will be with tonight. No matter how many men he has sex with, I don't admire him If you really have the ability to deal with our new CEO I obey him Why does he Just a poor guy with some good looks Ah, I heard that our new boss is less than 30 years old. He's also very handsome Really? Listening to our colleagues discussing the new boss He is the golden bachelor etc. I saw some boss posting wedding photos. What boss is married to whom? This photo has been I can't see clearly It must be a marriage between rich and powerful families No emotions at all I still have a chance snort Announce something to everyone Tonight the whole company dinner Everybody has to go, okay. manager I have to take care of my family tonight. The boss is treating us to dinner tonight Who of you has plans? Don't give face to the big boss snort Also taking care of family I think he is in a hurry to accompany that man. Hello Chen Dong You're really married. You don't have to do this if you don't want to leave. Marriage is no joke My marriage is no joke Not a transaction How old are you? Still playing innocently? Okay, we're already married. When will you bring them home? Marriage is a big deal Don't neglect the girl on impulse. Chen Zong Shang Wu Bu Na Bian Shuo I'd like you to come over and meet us. Is it the department in Wenqiao? yes I know I'll take him back when the time comes. Yes, I heard that the new boss is very handsome. The figure is also very good Not like someone's lover That's really one in heaven and one in hell. Hey Here it comes boss Good evening everyone Wo Shi Chen Du I will take over the future of China Hui Group. I hope everyone will have a pleasant cooperation Happy cooperation Keep having fun everyone I have something else to do Excuse me first. Goodbye, lemon boss Lemon is really handsome. Maomao is so handsome So cool Really like it Senior sister, where did you go just now? There is no hospital phone number. It's a pity you didn't see our new boss. It really lives up to its reputation So handsome More handsome than Jin Pingzhou Yeah Um Hey, the boss is gone. There's no point in just drinking. Why not play some truth or dare? This is fun Try it a thousand times and never get tired of it Why This is good. This is good. Come to this Wen Qiang draws one Hey, smoke it, smoke it That's right, I'm just not so gregarious, just for fun Yeah, hurry up. ha Wenqiao won the big adventure Ha ha I didn't draw the card &quot;Big Adventure&quot; myself. Aren't you just relying on your beauty? Do you like to have your feet on many boats? Then tonight in front of so many colleagues in the company Sit tight, you slut, you idiot Just a game Wen Qiang, you can't afford to play so much That's it Our big adventure is to draw a man present Take off his belt Ouch Wen Damei I'd like to help with this. Mission Failed Three bottles is enough, right? Senior sister, don't This alcohol is very high. Drink three bottles and you're going to die That's right, don't be so stubborn. You counted it. First bottle Don't drink so fast, beautiful lady. Senior sister, please drink slowly That's right, Wen Qiang, drink slowly. Can you do me a favor? What's the matter? I I want your belt Wow, I didn't see that. Are you kidding me? Wedding You don't want to die You even dare to sexually harass your boss Sister Xue, you've drunk too much. I'll watch you die. You can Is he crazy? No, he True or False Don't rush Oh my god The boss gave him money Bu Hao Yi Si Chen Zong We are playing truth or dare See, he didn't mean it. Senior sister, hurry up and thank the boss Thank you, husband Why thank you, husband? Wen Qiao, you've drunk too much. This is our new boss. What nonsense are you talking about? fine Just a game you You are our new boss. Sorry, sorry. I drink too much Okay, do you need an explanation? Yeah, very necessary. You are really the big boss of our company. Um yes injury I blame myself for not asking clearly. But you are a person of this status. Why would you marry me? Any questions? I just need to take care of my family. You just need a husband. How could I marry a woman of this status? Just for fun Aren't you afraid that I'll pester you for your money? ah Come to my house tonight Let me see how you get me What I don't need to do it myself Don't worry, I won't do anything to you. You don't drink very well. I'm worried about you going home alone I understand. Thank you. Have a good rest I'll get you a glass of water. Drink honey water You may not remember You have a very low alcohol tolerance When I drink too much, I will do some outrageous things What how do you know Nothing. Don't drink like this anymore. It's dangerous. oh Thanks It's been a month. Have you had enough of the trouble? Jin Pingzhou, the two of us It doesn't matter now What does it matter where I am? Wen Qiang has the position of Mrs. Jin I can give you whatever you want. But the premise is that you have to be good Jin Pingzhou is a qualified predecessor It should be like a dead person. Wen Qiang knows when to stop Not enough That's it How about going to meet Miss Wen? As far as I know, Miss Wen is quite popular. If someone takes advantage of you, It's impossible. Who else? I didn't know that Wen Qiao had been with me for 6 years. Do you think anyone would want him? What if there is someone who is blind? Don't worry, Wen Qiao loves me to death Now I'm throwing a tantrum again Wen Qiao will never fall in love with someone else in this life This is obviously new Why do I always feel like I have his scent? Who are you? Jinpingzhou? What's wrong What happened? nothing Had a nightmare Nightmare Dreaming about being bitten by a dog But your reaction now It seems like I am the dog chasing you in the dream No, no You misunderstood What's wrong Why do I always feel that he is familiar? Is it the one in the dream Chen Xian Sheng Zhe Yang Yi Ge Si Wen Ke Zhi De Ren How could it be that crazy man in the dream? What am I thinking about? Can you still sleep now if you have a nightmare? Then I'll accompany you Hey you How do you accompany me Why etc. You don't seem to be used to this relationship yet. Or move in here. Adapt to adapt Uh, this I didn't expect it either You are my boss We're just faking it. No need to live together Still sharing the bed? But you promised me To accompany me to deal with the parents Cohabitation is cohabitation Anyway, it's only half a year Half a year has passed It's gonna be separate. I'll go with you to see grandma. She had promised before Really? Thank you so much. I'll treat you to lunch tomorrow at noon Okay, now you can sleep peacefully. Wen Qiao, you are really amazing You even dare to pick up your boss's belt I drank too much that day How could he be drunk? I think he was being drunk and bullying his boss. People are very high-spirited. BMW men don't like it Mr. Wang doesn't like it either. I'm just thinking about our big boss. Wen Qiang has been looking for you for a long time So you are here An important client wants to meet Mr. Shen tonight The President's Office asked you to go with me Remember to prepare. knew Sister Zhao It was you who took on such important missions before. How did he untie his gray belt? It becomes Wen Qiang. Today's society Work is not based on reality Do it but be done I know you're not convinced Dan Shi Wo Jing Gao Ni Bu Yao Sun Pi Chen Zong De Ming Yu Hey, Mr. Wang is here. Come to see Miss Wen I just came to see what happened to Wen Qiao You don't reply to my message Why should I reply to your message? It's work time Please go out. Wen Qiang, why are you like this? We've heard it long ago. You and Mr. Wang have a special relationship. Why are you turning your back on me now? Wen Qiao must have untied the boss's belt alone You can get on top of the big boss I don't like Mr. Wang anymore. There is no relationship between me and Wang Zhiqiang I warn you Spreading rumors is also illegal Angry Oops, we pouted. Just do your thing and we won't interfere. Have a good chat among yourselves. Why What are you doing I have secretly turned off the surveillance Wen Qiao, why did you shut down? You guys should take this time to have a good exchange. snort I asked you out for dinner several times but you refused I really miss you so much I can't help but come and see you Get out of here! If you don't get out of here, I'll call the police. To be honest I don't know what you're pretending to be. With my ability in Zhonghui I'll give you some later. You will definitely rise quickly in this company. Shut up, I already have a husband. husband Hahaha A few days ago, the profile still said she was unmarried. I have a husband so soon. Who are you fooling? Hey, sweetheart Jing Ran Gan Xie Chen Zong De Pi Dai Chen Zong Shi Ni Men Gao Pan De Ma Don't be delusional now. Hello 110? I want to call the police. Manager Zhao will report on the work Mr. Shen, our company's revenue this month is 1 billion The investment cost company expenditure Who is Wang Zhiqiang? Someone reported you for sexual harassment Come out and cooperate with our investigation He actually dared to call the police Oops, someone posted this online. They are all on the trending search Wen Qiao What nonsense are you talking about? I just told you not to go too far. Bie Sao Rao Chen Zong You actually accused me of sexual harassment. I didn't lie I have evidence No matter what misunderstandings there are between us Can this be resolved privately? You called the police without knowing anything. This matter spread Do you know how big of an impact this has on our group? ah Wuqiao will remove me immediately I'll take care of the car. Sorry for making you go for nothing. I'm leaving. If you need anything, call me anytime. Chen Zong Ming Cha Ya This woman doesn't speak a word of truth. There is a price to pay for spreading rumors Chen Yang Shi Jiao Lu Shi Lai I want him to spend the rest of his life in jail. Shi Zong You're convicting me. This woman is having sex with several men He was the one who seduced me. I tell you I'm not going to let you off so easily this time. next time take away yes The meeting is over. How long has she been sexually harassing you? More than two months What I said is true I have evidence on my phone. You can watch Why didn't you tell me this happened? You don't trust me Chen Zong Zuo Wei Zhong Hui Ji Tuan De Yuan Gong I should always pay attention to the company's image But I called the police this time Does it have a big impact on the company's image? Wen Qiao, you have to remember Shou Xian Ni Shi Chen Tai Tai Secondly Everything comes second Do you understand me? Feel sorry I may not have adapted to this identity yet. It's not my fault sorry I will change my signature later Nothing else, I'll leave first Look This is it Why Don't worry, it's done. Chen Tu Ta Wei Shi Yao Hui Zhe Yang Does he have a crush on me? Why I heard from the president's special assistant Send Wang Zhiqiang to prison More than just going to jail Look at the temple pig. It's obvious that they want to kill Wang Zhiqiang in prison. Just because he teased Boss Wen Qiao, he was going to be killed. Hey, you think our big boss won't really like it? Wen Qiao, right? Will we be okay? Ugh What can we do? We just turned off the surveillance. Besides, Wang Zhiqiang was killed It also damages the image of our Zhong Hui. What does it have to do with Wen Qiang? Yeah, you're right. I mean, you don't really think the big boss is interested in you, do you? I'm working Please stay away from me Here you look Hey, take a look. Big Boss's circle of friends 6 years ago I want to go see the Northern Lights with him. Look at this aurora picture The big boss used him as his avatar for 6 years This copy He is the boss's true love Don't be so delusional. I'm just being sentimental. Chen Xian Sheng Dui Na Ge Gu Niang Nian Nian Bu Wang But he married me Is he sorry too? What's wrong? Are you still thinking about what happened during the day? You don't look good. No, I'm going to rest first. good Good night Mr. Water Or we should not go to the company together. I'm afraid people in the company will see the discussion at the meeting. What are they discussing? You are unwilling to give me a name? What nothing I will arrange a new car for you. He wants me to give him a name I didn't hear it wrong. No other meaning I just think the scenery this morning is beautiful It's really nice He must have sent it by mistake. Circle K What are you doing? Playing cards with Fu Xicheng Chen Ge Ai Ya A little expression of spring heart Play your cards! What do you know? No more playing This This one is finished Hello Chen Xian Sheng Ni Men De Pai Ju Jie Shu Liao Ma not yet Why is your voice hoarse? Are you feeling uncomfortable? Strong Chen Zong Ni Huan Hao Ma How did you meet him? Who is Jinsheng? So brave I don't even say hello when I see you Shut up and stay away from him. It's a bit uncomfortable Where do you feel uncomfortable? They laughed at me Laugh at me It's strange that no one loves you after you get married. Poor Chen Du Jie Hun Liao I heard that this is the case. But listen to his tone It seems that he doesn't have a good relationship with his new wife. Chen Du Zhe Ge Tian Zhi Jiao Zi There are times when I get frustrated Chen Tai Tai Wo He Liao Xie Jiu Is it convenient for you to pick me up at Changan Club? Okay, I'll come over. Jin Shao came to drink Miss Wen, I'm sorry I sent the wrong message. Jin Ping Zhu has a new girlfriend What does it have to do with me? Finally, it's all cleaned up. Wenqiao has contacted you No, I contacted him. But Miss Wen hasn't replied to me yet. Come to Changan Club This is not how I was deleted. How to do this What to do Just a quarrel Do you want me to ask him to come back? But what if I win him? It's nothing more than blocking and crying again In a few days, he will come back and beg me to get back together. Stop talking and drink Zhe Ying Gai Bu Hui Gei Chen Zong Diu Lian Liao Ba This card is so stinky. Why Why haven't you finished smoking? My wife will be here soon. She doesn't like the smell of cigarettes Ouch I want to see whose delicate young lady this is. I can't even smell the smoke. What to do next Should we show some affection? My husband is so late. You guys haven't dispersed yet. Come home with me and rest, okay? This is my sister-in-law Cheng Ge and his wife are pretty good looking. But how can I wear a mask to see you? ah Do you understand the fun of husband and wife? Couples Fun Didn't you say you were drinking? Come home with me and rest, okay? Hao Du Ting Chen Fu Ren De I'll pay for tonight's consumption Thank you, sister-in-law Zen Yao Yang Chen Xian Sheng I didn't embarrass you just now, did I? Chen Du Dui Mian Shi Shui A Why does he look so much like Wen Qiao? Mr. Shi, let's go. What are you afraid of? He is my ex-boyfriend I don't want to have anything to do with him anymore I don't want to have anything to do with him. There is not only one way to escape Qiqi Shao, that is Let's go, he can't be warm. With his conservative character It is absolutely impossible to be intimate in public. sorry I couldn't help it It's okay. I know you're just trying to help me out. But I think I kissed you a little too hard just now It's nothing, just like a mosquito bite Bu Teng De Chen Xian Sheng Because I did you a favor. Could you do me a favor too? What's the matter? this This is your home It's a little small, don't mind it I usually live alone There are not many daily necessities in the house I'll go buy it No need to bother I took the initiative to ask to come to your house So of course I prepared the things. Lao Li is ready. Toothpaste and toothbrush I don't know, definitely. Look, Uncle Yang. Unexpected Accident Why That Wen Qiao Since we are already married Why not give it a try? No We will get divorced sooner or later. I said so It doesn't mean you're not good enough. It's because we are at different heights. You're standing too high. If we force ourselves to be together That would definitely be tiring. Can I bow my head? I like you for a long time Try it with me Chen Zong Ni Yan Xi Guo Tou Liao Ba We had never met before we got married. How could you like me Um I see It must be because of the kiss before. You feel embarrassed It's okay Don't worry, I'm not a feudal person. All right Chen Zong Ni Zhen Shi Ge Da Hao Ren Don't worry I will definitely work hard for Zhonghui Group in the future. Go to sleep. I'm tired. Chen Zong Wan An Wen Qiang I have liked you for a long time Let's try it Hello, Miss Chen. I am Wenqiao I have something to ask you. Jiu Shi Zhi Qian He Wo Xiang Qin De Na Wei Chen Xian Sheng Is it a coincidence how you got his information? A Na Shi Chen Du A Oh, speaking of which You two are really destined to be together. When he came to me From hundreds of dating profiles I picked you right away. Ha ha Did he tell you? Why did you choose me? This one It is like this Finally off work Mr. Jing, I have found out everything. This It is the only way for employees of Zhonghui Group to go to and from get off work. We just wait here. You will definitely meet Miss Wen Why hasn't Wen Chao come down yet? Mr. Jing, please look. Miss Wen has been with you for so many years She's a famous model girl. I'm devoted to you. If you take the initiative to bow your head and call her to admit your mistake Make sure she forgives you immediately snort I admitted my mistake to her I came here this time to tell him Even if we separate It's not his turn to decide unilaterally. Yeah He blocked all my contact information. How to play Change a number Hello Which one is me? How long are you going to hide from me? I'm downstairs from your company Let's Talk Where are you Your company's entrance to area A Okay, wait for me for a few minutes. I thought he would refuse. The result is coming soon You look for me Wen Qiao I said we broke up. Don't come to me again. I'm dating someone I like now. I don't want to get tangled up with a stranger Wen Qiao, how long are you going to make trouble? I came to you first Isn't it enough that I called you first? You want to break up You think between us Can you tell it apart in one sentence? I have found the things you gave me over the years. You think I care about that So what do you care about? These six years I spent I tell you We're here what you do Doing things that I haven't done in years stop Jin Shao heard Your father We are planning your wedding with Miss Zhou. You said you If the news of the street raping a girl gets out, Your father will probably be very angry. Chen Zong Shuo Xiao Liao This is my girlfriend We haven't cleaned up yet. How can I start a new relationship? Wen Qiang come over You go over there and wait for me. Why Archer Wenqiao is mine Stay away from Wenqiao in the future Just an employee Chen Zong Jing Ran Zhe Yao Zai Or Chen Zong Shi Yao Jie Zhao Wen Qiao De Shi Qing Zhen Dui Wo Not qualified for you Well, you will understand some things later. I'm sorry I didn't know he would come to the company Why didn't you think of that? I thought he wouldn't look back. Chen Tai Tai Wo Neng Wen Ni Yi Ge Wen Ti Ma During the years you were with him Do you really like him? yes So you married me to get revenge on him. Of course not What I told you when we were dating was the truth I got married just to make my grandma happy Do you still like him now? People's patience is limited. My love for him has long been consumed by him Chen Xian Sheng Wo Ke Yi Hen Ren Zhen De Gao Su Ni I don't like him I have no relationship with him now. good Go home Wen Qiao has been here for a while. How is the adaptation? fine Very good words Then I will start the next stage, Mrs. God What is the next stage? Come to my room tonight and I'll wait for you What What he said Did I hear that correctly? Are you asleep? Then I won't bother you anymore. Not in yet What does he mean? You don't want to be my sex buddy, do you? Anyway, I will never fall in love or get married again. It's okay to experience it Chen Tai Tai A good night gift for you Wow, so beautiful Thank you thank you Prepared for this fireworks Do you like it? Um That What do you want? Give me some hint? I will try my best to satisfy you I've already gotten so close. It's not obvious enough. Is that enough now? like Not enough But not Sedum Wo Zhi Shi Lai Dai Chen Fu Ren Kan Yan Hua De Chen Fu Ren Bu Hui Xiang Duo Liao Ba I don't know much about that aspect. Chen Fu Ren Ruo Shi Shi Zai Xiang Bang Wo De Hua Can you help me next time? I'm sleepy. I'm going to sleep first. Chen Fu Ren Wan An Oh, you are blind Oh, you talented lady, you came so late Which wild man did you fool around with last night? Don't, don't, don't come over here Chen Zong Xian Zai Gong Kai Dui Ni Yi Dian Hao Chu Du Mei You Please don't make it public Who are you winking at? Your new title I warn you Spreading rumors will lead to jail time Have you forgotten what happened to Wang Zhiqiang? You are this person I didn't say anything Didn't I just ask casually? Some people I thought I was helped twice by my boss. Then fly onto the tree branch and become a phoenix What's wrong, Miss Zhao? Wen Qiang helped the big boss If he can help the big boss Then I must be the president's wife. That's a must, Sister Zhao Wen Qiang Chen Zong Jiao Ni Qu Ban Gong Shi Yi Tang Um I see Wen Qiao Bu Zhi Dao Shi Liao Shi Yao Shou Duan Chan Shang Chen Zong But don't worry. In a few days, Wen Qiao will have to pack up and leave. Does Sister Zhao have any secret news? You all forgot Chen Zong Yi Hun I heard The president's wife is coming to our company to clean up. Wait and see the show Chen Zong Nin Zhao Wo You Shi Yao Shi Ma What they did to you Didn't do anything I can handle it myself You have helped me a lot with Wang Zhiqiang's matter before. Why didn't you let me speak? I don't want to make it public Anyway, we two will get divorced sooner or later. Too much trouble to make it public This is not what I saw in the magazine. Limited edition bag? How do you know I like it? Guess what This is too expensive. I can't have Chen Zong Ni Yi Jing Bang Liao Wo Hen Duo Liao I can't accept any more gifts from you And later Don't bother preparing for me anymore. I won't take it. what ever you You are angry That's not what I meant by what I just said. I see No gifts Milk is always OK Remember to eat breakfast on time Chen Du He won't be angry, will he? It's time to get off work. It's time to get off work. It's time to get off work. Hey, it's time to get off work. Off work. Off work. A great genius I forgot to give you this information this morning. The manager wants it tomorrow. Oh yeah The manager has a training session tonight. Can't answer the phone You won't try to sue, will you? You take your time to sit down. We'll get off work first. you Zhao Yaling, you did this on purpose Why haven't you left yet? I How come you are here? I sent you a message but you didn't reply Let's go home Why You go back first I still have to work overtime. Who asked you to work overtime? Ah, no, it is It's my own negligence You go back first Don't mind me No need to bother Chen Tai Tai Ting Hua Have a meal In the Vastness It's too late today. Just stay at my house for the night. good Isn't this the room I stayed in last time? Why don't you stay in this room? So many things Otherwise you sleep All these things were given by your ex. Quite a lot I'll deal with it right away. I sorted them out just to deal with them It's just that I've been too busy at this time. If he gives it to you, you should take it. nothing Chen Zong Ni Zen Yao Liao fine I overestimated myself. I'm not sleepy yet You go to bed first Did he see me talking about so many things to others? I think I'm a bad person. Hello, can the moving company come to your house early in the morning? Remove the evil things immediately What's wrong with that woman? Nan, burn all these things. Quietly this Jin Shao Why is there nothing you like here? Do you want some new gameplay? Do you remember the new batch of fire I got? A few days before your birthday I put some medicine in Wenqiao's wine How was it? Did you have fun? Hi A few days before my birthday What did you say you did? Nothing nothing Mr. Come and drink Wen Qiao, even if you cry and beg me this time I won't look at you again introduce Hello Miss Wen I introduced him to him from Jinan Because you drank a lot tonight The doctor said he had severe gastric bleeding. Can you come to the hospital to see him? Boss, something happened at the hospital. What Went to Pingzhou to visit Miss Wen at the hospital In fact, I can't send him to find him specifically. He drank so much that he had stomach bleeding at the club last night. Just sent to the hospital where Miss Wen's grandmother is He is probably also paying attention to Miss Wen's news. So now it's blocked at the ward. Chen Zong Zen Yao Ban Should we go to the hospital? Keep your wife safe Don't let Jinpingzhou touch even one of his fingers He will take care of the rest. Chen Zong Na Wo Men Bu Qu Yi Yuan Liao No, I believe he can handle it. I'll arrange it. He is sick. You should call me. Why don't you find him a psychiatrist? Ms. Wen introduced He is also very pitiful His family has been putting pressure on him since he was a child. These two days, he was asked to get married. He got angry with you because he was in a bad mood I'm not a psychiatrist. I can't cure his disease. How many times do you want me to tell you before you understand? I have no relationship with him anymore. Wen Qiao Your grandma is here too. What do you want to do? Didn't you say your grandma is dying? Do you want me to meet her? That sentence had expired that night. Go quickly Otherwise I saved people. Be obedient, Wen Qiao, if you continue to make trouble, it will not end well. Fuck him Checkmark Chen Ge Zhuang Tai Bu Dui A Why are you in a bad mood? Hello Mr. Shen and Jin Pingzhou went to see Miss Wen It should be to seek reconciliation I'm a little far away I didn't hear what they said. Jinpingzhou Um I see Shengge I heard he drank with a woman last night Drinking until gastric bleeding I also know that woman She has been following him for six years. This suddenly changed my love Don't tell me, this male mistress is really high level. It's really high The male mistress would say this Don't want to die But I think They'll get along. How can you let go of your feelings? Ai Chen Ge Sister-in-law won't pick you up today. Not coming Had a fight I hope he can quarrel with me. The two of us from beginning to end Never quarreled once What can I do? Hahahaha I understand Husband and wife quarrel at the head of the bed and make up at the foot of the bed You've got your bed skills done. Naturally, he will be fine. You have a way Don't you understand what I'm saying? It's over between me and you. I already have a husband husband You're squeezing me again You went through so much trouble just to marry me, didn't you? Don't make it so difficult for me. Not getting married won't stop us from being together. Jin Shao Ji Shao The eldest daughter of the Zhou family is here Waiting for you in the ward After returning from the hospital Chen Du Yi Tian Du Mei Gei Wo Fa Xiao Xi What happened? Yo big beauty Why didn't anyone from the president's office come to see you today? What's my business with you? It's okay. It's okay. You are now a favorite of the president. Who among us is qualified to have anything to do with you? Look at him like that. I thought I had climbed to the top and it was all in vain. Just wait and see I have found the president's wife. I'm going to tell my wife There is a shameless scumbag in the office Xiang Gou Yin Chen Zong Ni Beat the mistress That's a good show. Ha ha Chen Du Yi Jing San Tian Mei Hui Jia Liao Should I ask him? Hello Shengyang is my Wenqiao Miss Wen, are you okay? oh Wo Jiu Shi Xiang Wen Yi Xia Chen Zong Xian Zai Zai Gan Shi Yao Will he come back today? Chen Zong Ta Ying Gai Bu Hui Ba Oh, there shouldn't be any misunderstanding between him and me. Wen Xiao Jie Chen Zong Zhi Dao Jin Ping Zhou I went to the hospital to see you. Chen Zong De Peng You Du Zhi Dao Chen Zong Ta Xian Zai You Dian Bu Gao Xing Miss Wen, can you understand what I mean? oh Got it. Thanks. I think I've made it clear. Wen Xiao Jie Zhe Hui Ying Gai Zhi Dao Chen Zong Zai Chi Cu Liao Ba She is angry It's my fault She embarrassed herself in front of her friends. Chen Zong Ru Guo Ni Xiang Chi Hun De Hua I'm fine here. I can bring my ID tomorrow. Forget it. We are not from the same world. Divorce is a matter of time. What are you doing to me? Oh my god Is it really a marriage certificate? What are you doing? What is Wenqiao? You clearly filled in &quot;unmarried&quot; when you joined the company It's over so soon You are stupid. He cheated the company. Yi Hun Zhuang Dan Shen Huan Qu Gou Yin Chen Zong I don't know what An is thinking. Quick, quick, quick See what her husband is like. The wedding bridge is not even worth it. What kind of good man can he be? I guess he is either a fool or disabled. Sister Zhao, please take a look Give it back to me, give it back to me What are you doing? Manager, I want to report Wen Qiang He concealed his marriage Deceiving the company He must be punished Manager, look Can't watch This thing is public and has a great impact on the company You can't bear the consequences. Hahaha Oh, I'm so scared. Great impact on the company Wen Qiang Ni Yi Wei Ni Lao Gong Shi Chen Zong A toad wants to eat swan flesh. Daydreaming I'll open it and see what the consequences are. Go! Go! Go Whether Xiao Wen gets married or not is his own business. What are you doing here? All gone manager Okay, I came here to tell you. The outstanding employees of our group have been selected Everyone, get ready. A commendation meeting will be held later Sister Zhao, it must be you Wen Qiang Chen Zong Rang Ni Qu Ta Ban Gong Shi Yi Tang Ng knew Ta You Qu Zhao Chen Zong Liao This vixen is really too arrogant Bu Xing Wo Xian Zai Jiu Yao Qu Zhao Chen Zong Make it clear to him. Let's go together Bu Neng Rang Chen Zong Zhao Liao Ta De Dao Zou We must fire Wen Qiao today Chen Zong Zi Liao Wo Du Dai Lai Liao You're pretty quick. Such a small divorce Is your grandma okay? A Duo Xie Chen Zong Guan Xin My grandma's side I said you went abroad for further studies. No problem And you Are you okay too? I'm fine. Didn't we discuss this before? but But I promise that I was in the hospital that day Nothing happened between me and him. If someone makes fun of you for this again You let me confront him. Am I not doing well enough? Why do you want to divorce me? no Chen Zong Nin Zhe Yao Xie Tian Du Mei You Hui Wo Xiao Xi I thought you were angry. I don't send messages That's because Fu Xicheng said Men should keep a sense of mystery Don't be too clingy So I didn't send a message ah It turns out that this is I thought it was because of something Yeah, I screwed up. So would you let me keep messaging you? You don't think I'm clingy Not annoying, quite the opposite You haven't replied to my message in these days. I've been thinking a lot Wen Qiang Don't get divorced. Okay? What is happening now? Does he also feel that breaking up is a good thing? It's not my turn to bring up this matter. Well, I was abrupt in doing this. From now on, I will follow your arrangements. Ahhh Chen Zong Ju Ran Zhen De Shang Liao The arrogance of that little vixen Chen Zong Ken Ding Bu Zhi Dao Wang Qiao Yi Hun Wo Xian Zai Jiu Qu Gao Su Chen Zong Go in now Chen Zong Ken Ding Hui Wei Liao Mian Zi Ba Shi Qing Ya Xia Qu That's miserable. If Hou Wenqiang is here, he will definitely ride on our heads. The commendation meeting will be held soon. Then everyone in the company will come together Find a time to get this out. Yes, when the whole industry blocks us from grabbing I don't like him now. He took away all our resources just by relying on his face. What's wrong fine Aren't you going to hold a commendation ceremony soon? Go get the things they need over there. Then I'll go get busy. Mr. Chen Those people just took pictures of you and Miss Wen Do you want me to deal with it? No It is their right to take pictures yes Come on, come on, cheers cheers You are so nice today Mr. Chen Mr. Chen Mr. Chen Let's drink Come on, cheers. It's really a summons that you are 100 times better than Wen Qiao. Wait until we get rid of Wen Qiao I'll create an opportunity for you and Mr. Shen. snort What are you doing Not enough trouble yet Nothing, I just wanted to remind you Your death is coming. Enjoy this last peaceful moment. Is everyone here? Then we go on You Qing Chen Zong Wei Wo Men Ban Bu Jin Nian De You Xiu Yuan Gong well Please look at your mobile phones Look at your phone What's going on? Chen Zong Kan Bu Chu Lai A I can't tell, oh my god. Tian Ne Chen Zong Bu Shi Yi Jing Yi Hun Liao Ma Why are you still with Wen Qiao? This Wen Qiao is too shameless. I heard he has a husband. Zen Yao Huan Gou Da Chen Zong how so Quick withdrawal Quick withdrawal Now I know I'm anxious. Damn, this has become a trending topic. Chen Zong Gen Yuan Gong You Bu Zheng Dang The news of the relationship has spread. Affected the company's stock price It's so serious What can I do? It's too late. I don't know how you can live like this. Chen Zong Ta Shi Pian Ni De Ni Zhi Bu Zhi Dao Shi A Chen Zong Wen Qiao's relationships with men and women are confusing Please make a statement immediately It's all Wen Qiao's fault. Chen Zong Wo Zhi Dao You just made a mistake that all men in the world would make. We all understand you This matter has nothing to do with you, okay What's going on? Fang Kai Chen Zong We do this for your own good. yes It's really for my good. A Chen Zong Jing Ran Qian Ta Shou Liao About this matter I do want to apologize to everyone. I knew I would be fired. Everyone knows that I'm married. But no one knows that Wen Qiao is my wife What is good? Shi Yao Wen Qiao Jing Ran Jiu Shi Chen Tai Tai Sister Zhao Ni Bu Shi Shuo Chen Tai Tai Shi Hao Men Da Xiao Jie Ma Speak up! It's impossible to say it quickly Chen Zong Zen Yao Ke Neng Qu Wen Qiao Na Ge Nu Ren Aren't you afraid that saying this will have an impact on the company? I can't hide it anymore. They know it anyway. I'm sorry, but don't worry. I will try my best to cooperate with you I was the one who fell in love with Wen Qiao first I've had a crush on him for a long time Being able to marry Wen Qiao is the most important thing in my life. The luckiest thing Do you have any other questions? Mei You Xiang Wen De Liao Chen Yang It was so sudden Take him out for a good chat. Yes, where should I take this? How can we manage Miss Zhao's bar? Bu Shi De Chen Zong Listen to my explanation Chen Zong Chen Zong Chen Zong Shi Chuan A Ling Pian Wo Men De Chen Zong Thank you Chen Zong Bu Guo Ni Zhen Shi Bu Kui Neng Dang Lao Ban De I'm almost convinced by the truth of the performance. What I said is true What kind of fairy love is this? It turns out that we are both the boss and the boss lady. A ring in Prey Yeah yeah I know our play is not over yet. I will cooperate with you OMG This is so sweet. A really good match President Shen, public opinion has reversed Kwani and his wife are gods Love terms have been on several hot searches. What about the company's stock price? No impact Even higher than before. Great, thank God. How do I feel compared to my boss? You seem to be more concerned about the company's stock price. Chen Zong Ni Dui Wo Zhe Yao Hao I don't want to hold you back What's holding me back? I'm afraid others will think Why are you with someone like me? You will feel that someone like me is not worthy of you. Stop talking All right I will feel sad Drinking sister-in-law comes to drink Who are you? What's wrong, Wen Qiao? Mr. Shen I think I still have some psychological trauma about this kind of thing There is something hidden in my heart I haven't told anyone about it for a long time. Because I think that painful thing For me It's like a nightmare I don't know what that person looks like. He covered my eyes with my hairband When I woke up the next morning He's gone. Nothing left I don't know What happened that night? Then he's a real jerk. I won't forgive him. I will never forgive him in my life Are you hungry? I'll get you something to eat. Is he disliking me? Dislike is normal You should have told him earlier. If we divorced earlier, we wouldn't be forced to make it public like you did. Isn't this my hairband? Why are you here? What's wrong This is This is my hair band He's been lost for a long time. Why is he here with you? Hello I have completed all the formalities. Don't worry You go back and rest first. But Listen to me, I'm here You can rest assured I feel relieved to have you around Stop crying, okay? Chen Du Wo Hai Pa Not afraid I'm here Grandma will get better. When I was very young My parents got divorced. Dad cheating I ran away with Xiaosan. Mom only wants my sister and not me Only grandma wants me At that time, I kept calling for my dad My mom and grandma will tell me He is the person who loves me most in this world Home is more than the love of mom and dad combined Chen Du Ni Yuan Yi Will you have a baby with me? What Grandma always wanted me to have a child. If I had my own children Maybe grandma wouldn't leave me. Feel sorry It's my fault. Wen Qiao, the initiative in this matter is yours. As long as you want Even if it's just a task Or you want to take advantage of me I am willing Chen Fu Ren Guang Qin Yi Xia Shi Huai Bu Liao Yun De I know I'm not Okay, stop crying. My face is all red from crying I'll take care of grandma for you You go back and rest first. Everything can only be done by human beings It's up to fate. That means there is no hope. Wen Qiao Why didn't you tell us about such a big thing? Don't worry, husband. You should talk to your daughter about the division of property first. Your grandma is going to die soon. Have you been told about the division of property? I know your grandma has a house. This should be left to your dad. After all, he is the only son of your Zhou family. oops More than just this suite He wants everything for me. I am his son The only man in the Zhou family My grandma hasn't left yet. You're thinking about his property. Wen Qiang, your father has been defrauded of money in recent years. I need this house to pay off my debts. Wait until we get better business. We'll return this house to you. You left home with this mistress. Not a penny left Now I want to go back Come to ask for a house How can you be so thick-skinned? You little girl Stop talking nonsense to him. I'm not discussing this with you. You remember You have your mother's last name. You are not from the Zhou family. Why do you want this property? You two have been here since you entered the door Have you seen grandma? Grandma has been ill for so long. Have you come to see her once? I want a house now You dream you How do you talk to your dad? You dead girl Dare to call the police You dog Stop it Mom, you're awake. We are here to see you Want a house You dreamed that everything about me was just coincidence. You old fool You want to give our Zhou family's things to an outsider, right? brute No place for you There's no place for you There's no place for me, right? It's not up to you to decide. Get lost I'm going to go away. I'm going to go away. Who the fuck are you? I want my wife's stuff Ask me first if I can answer You are clever You dead girl Where did you find this gangster to marry? ah Chen Du You want a house, right? Sign this contract first. If you sign one less copy, I'll chop off one of your fingers Chop till it's finished You have to donate all my stuff. How did you know my company's trade secrets? Who are you? Sign or not sign I don't have time to talk nonsense with you sign A good man never suffers a loss in front of him Signed Wen Qiang, you little bastard You wait for me Wen, wait for me. Walk Grandma Grandma Milk I'm sorry I put you on trial. What are you saying sorry for? I am happy It's too late to be happy My Qiao Qiao finally found someone who can protect her Please Take good care of Qiao Qiao in the future Even if Even if you don't love him Grandma, I swear I will love her forever good OK Meeting you is such a blessing for me, Qiao Qiao. I'm so tired I want to rest Grandma Grandma grandmother Grandma Grandma Ah grandma Wake up, milk Milk Ahhh ah You've been sleeping for a week. I miss you The weather is good today Why don't you go out for a walk? Are you hungry? Why don't you try my cooking? Brother, sister-in-law, brother I am Shen Qingning Hello, sister-in-law oh Hello, your brother is in the kitchen. I'll call him Oh my god Did I hear that correctly? Chen Du Zai Chu Fang Because I'm in a bad mood recently Can't eat That's why he Sit down for a while, I'll call him. Hey wait a minute I'm not here to look for him. Chen Du Zhen Shi Hao Fu Qi Found a treasure Actually, I'm not that good. We got married just by chance. What is Do you think you married him by chance? We met by chance. So what did he tell you? You decided to marry him. He said his family forced him to get married He wants to find a suitable person Then he found you and you believed him Have you forgotten something? Blind date Do you really have no impression of my brother at all? What does it mean? We didn't even know each other before we met. What are you doing so early in the morning? Oh, I just want to meet my future sister-in-law. Can you lend me your sister-in-law today? I want her to go shopping with me. not see Jin Tian Chen Fu Ren Yao Pei Wo Hey you What do you mean? Okay, let's go together. Hey sister-in-law Look at that background, it's so pretty You go over there quickly I'll take a photo for you Forget it You go, beauty should be matched with beautiful scenery Sister-in-law, smile Okay bro You are not my sister-in-law in this game Until now, I thought you two met through a blind date. What happened to my sister-in-law? He doesn't even remember meeting you in college He had a brain injury. Forgot something Forget everything You are the one chosen by God to be forgotten Who made you keep having a crush on me? I can't say a few words People are not impressed by you I'm sure you'll be the first one to forget Is Shen Qingning okay? Looks good, smile again Let me say Even if he was with Jin Pingzhou at that time You should also try to steal the corner Shut up You came here to make her happy. I didn't ask you to talk nonsense. Sister-in-law, look here Hey, very good You've been married to him for more than two months. Have you ever thought about telling him about the past? I said I like him very much As for the rest I will never forgive him in my life I don't want him to remember. After all, if his grandmother hadn't suddenly appeared That ribbon I don't know how to explain it to him. What are you talking about Are you ready? alright Sister-in-law, you are so beautiful This dress is too solemn. Let's go shopping at the mall some other day Swipe my brother's card OK Chen Tai Tai Qian Mo Bie Gen Wo Ke Qi I won't disturb your world anymore. I'm leaving. Why Chen Tai Tai Wo Kan Ni Yi Zhi Xin Bu Zai Yan De Yang Zi Did Qing Ning say something to you during the day? I see you're always unhappy. Did you remember something? I asked Qing Ning if you have ever had a girlfriend She said you dated someone I'm not making a fuss about this matter. I just happened to ask Suo Yi Chen Tai Tai Chi Cu Liao No No Don't worry, I've dated one. But that was a blind date arranged by my family. No more than 15 minutes together Oh, I see. So don't be unhappy, okay? I was a little unhappy just now But now it's gone By the way, please save time for me tomorrow night Um, what's wrong? Accompany me to a dinner party But there is a mirror boat good haven't seen you for a long time Lai Lai Lai Shi Chen Zong Chen Zong Lai Liao Are these high-end dresses and jewelry too ostentatious? Won't No jewel in this world is as precious as you. Wow The woman standing next to Shendu is so beautiful Is she his girlfriend? What female companion? Didn't you see the hot searches a few days ago? That's his wife. Miss Ji Shaozhou went to the bathroom I'll be back soon. Sorry, I just went to touch up my makeup. Keep you waiting for a long time. It's ok, I waited for a while Let's go over there. I saw my dad coming. Chen Zong Ta Men Liang Ge Kan Zhao Zhen Ban Pei A Yes, they are a perfect match. The fireworks are so beautiful I like Look There are fireworks lighters here I quit smoking It's ok, I'll lend it to you. Lend me your lighter. Come Poison Give you one Do you think I'm childish? I'm 26 now. You're not a 6-year-old kid. Not in my eyes Whether you are 26 or 6 You'll always be a child It's okay. I'll get it for you. Wait. I have something to tell you Tell me, you married Wen Qiao. Ng Chen Zong Do you know about my past with Wen Qiao? We have been together for 6 years A relationship that has lasted this long can't just be ended. After all, in this relationship He is the one who loves more deeply What do you want to say? He still loves me You can feel it too He still loves me Mr. Chen, I have something to give you. Actually, I didn't think about falling in love and getting married at first. But after meeting you I am shaken Jin Pingzhou, will you marry me? The Sound of Winbridge Chen Zong Ying Gai Neng Ting De Chu Lai Ba Han Yu I finally told my grandma that I had a boyfriend He is so happy Will you come with me to see him? You should stop drinking so much and ruining your body. You are stressed We can go out for a walk Let's go see the Northern Lights together, shall we? Mr. Chen Do you think Wen Chao wins by marrying you? He loves me Sooner or later he will leave you I'm coming to see you today I want to tell you Wen Qiao is with you only because he wants revenge It's definitely not because I love you He loves you What do you love? Spirit substance Or body What do you have in the Golden Vase that is worth his nostalgia? You should ask him this. Ask him why he loves you so much I happened to um husband I've been waiting for you there for a long time Why didn't you come? Being harassed by an unknown person I have to listen to some nonsense Waste of time Honey, I'm a little cold. let's go good Chen Zong Jin Ping Zhou Zhe Liang Tian Dong Yong Liao Bu Shao Ren Mai Come to check on you and Miss Wei What is he doing? Chen Zong Jin Ping Zhou Xiang Yao Jian Ni Should I refuse? Need not Let him in yes You look for me What else do you want to say? But no matter what you say Wen Qiao Du Yi Jing Shi Chen Tai Tai Chen Tai Tai Chen Zong Two months ago What happened in Room 1601 of the Four Seasons Hotel? Ni Gen Chen Tai Tai Shuo Guo Ma Which step have you reached? E Chen Zong Kan Lai Ni Huan Mei You Gen Chen Tan Tan Tan Bai You took advantage of me that night. You are threatening me Bu Gan Wo Zhi Shi Lai Ti Xing Chen Zong I have been with Wen Qiao for six years I know better than you how much he hates lies Chen Zong Zhe Jian Shi Qing Wo Hui Ji Xu Cha Xia Qu Wait until I get the evidence that you cheated him I hope you can still maintain this winning attitude. Two months ago What happened in Room 1601 of the Four Seasons Hotel? Have you told Mrs. Shen? Boss, are you still off work? not yet What's wrong I just finished If you ask me for a ride after get off work I have been with Wen Qiao for 6 years I know better than you how much he hates lies Why this Isn't this the little cake I particularly like to eat recently? You will know if you pay attention Don't you want to eat? I I'm afraid of getting your car dirty. Why do you manage the car? Do you want me to feed you? Thanks Wei Bao Chen Tai Tai Shi Wo De Zhi Ze Chen Xian Sheng Ni Ren Zhen Hao If one day You found out that I'm not as good as you thought. What will happen to you? No one is perfect You are fine now Maybe some people have done a lot of right things in their lives. But he took a wrong step I did something wrong It was enough to push him into the abyss. Chen Xian Sheng Ni Jin Tian Shuo Hua Zen Yao Qi Qi Guai Guai De Do you want to meet my family? It's okay. It's okay if you don't want to. No, no You suddenly told me this It made me nervous all of a sudden. I want to go Don't make things difficult for Mr. Shui Now that we are married And I have no plans to divorce in the near future. I should meet your family. Okay, I'll go tomorrow. ah beans Why Here it comes Parents Qiao Qiao, these are my parents. Hello, Mom and Dad Qiao Qiao Chen Du Mei Qi Fu Ni Ba Oh my god, my brother is such a gentleman. How could I bully my sister-in-law? Sorry, I'm nervous. This is the first time I meet my daughter-in-law I was more nervous than when I first went on stage. Ha ha Qiao Qiao, this is grandpa Hello, Um This brat finally brought you back. Marriage is the most important event in your life. A moment Let's discuss your wedding. Anyway, we can't neglect you. Hahaha Come with me Come and have a look. Come and sit down. God, how far have you and that kid progressed? What step? You look quite smart. How can you be so stupid about the relationship between men and women? Hey, your house It is a Feng Shui treasure land One pregnancy, one accurate You two are going to stay there for a few more days. Grandpa, we are still far from the inside. you Hey, useless stuff. Why Sister-in-law, I'm here This is what my parents prepared. This is my aunt's. This is my aunt's. This is what I prepared I know you like this Take a look I never said I liked the aurora borealis How do you know? Are we alumni? When you were in college But he is a famous figure in our school. I'll know it just by listening. But this I think I only wrote it in the wish list in my diary It's fate It's strange Chen Xian Sheng Hao Xiang Ye Zong Shi Zhi Dao Wo Xi Huan Shi Yao My brother is careful. Hey, sister-in-law, why are you fussing about this? Come and see this This is what my uncle prepared. Jojo Come and try mom's cooking. Come on Walk What are you doing My mother made me a midnight snack. I've eaten enough now. It's a soup to drive away the cold. After drinking it, your stomach will feel better. I made it myself All right Does it still hurt? Um There is still a little Less meat Why don't we go back tomorrow? I can't say a word to you here. Thank you Thank you for letting me feel the warmth of my family Bu Yong Xie Chen Tai Tai You deserve everything good in this world Grandma, I haven't been in so much pain during this period. Because there is judgment Everything is moving in the right direction grandmother Please rest assured grandmother what do I do Chen Du Thank you for coming here with me today. Let's go first It took so long to investigate the Jin Shang incident. Still no definite evidence found. In fact, we just need to tell Miss Wen At Four Seasons Hotel That's the judgment It will definitely make him suspicious. Ta Yi Ding Hui Gen Chen Du Nao Fan De How can he marry someone else? How could he fall in love with another man? Just do as you say. I will tell Wen Qiu the truth Shen Qingnian and I went to the same school Mr. Shui, have you ever been to our school before? Um Why are you asking this suddenly? I had a head injury during my junior year. Suffering from sequelae Lost some memory Chen Xian Sheng Wo Men Shi Bu Shi Zhi Qian Jiu Ren Shi Liao Shen Du About that My company has some things to do. I'm going out first Why are you so anxious? Don't you want to talk to me about the Four Seasons? Arrived at Changan Club What do you want to tell me? It was in this box that day. I drank the wine my girlfriend handed me and then What happened that night? How do I do it? He can come back to me I just got a new batch of goods on the street Just take a sip Any chastity rain can take it Drink it up I'll tell you the truth about that night I will never trust you again Na Wan Shang De Ren Shi Chen Duo What did you say You drank too much that night Shi Chen Du Dai Ni Zou De He forces you Deceiving you and taking advantage of others Wen Qiao, I don't care what happened to you before As long as you come back to me I'll just pretend nothing happened Whoever it was that night There is no possibility between you and me. Chen Zong Wen Xiao Jie Yi Jing Jin Qu You Yi Zhen Liao Should we go and have a look? Wen Qiao Asshole Asshole You drank too much that night It was Shen Du who took you away He forced you to cheat on you Taking advantage of someone's misfortune Don't touch me Don't touch me, I'm going to take a shower first I'm just here to remind you guys I have been with Wen Qiao for 6 years I know how much he hates me better than you do. Because I think that painful thing For me It's like a nightmare I won't forgive him. I will never forgive him in my life I have something to ask you Should I go to Pingzhou to find you? What was said It was me that night. No No, how could it be you? We only met when we were dating How could it be you? It's me That night you came out of the Changan Club and drank Stumbled into me It's me I took advantage of the opportunity go out go out When the heart breaks into a gust of evening wind It's you I've said it all. Actually, auntie doesn't want to disturb you. but You haven't eaten since yesterday morning, have you? I have to eat breakfast today. Can you sleep after eating? Auntie, don't you want Are you on vacation? Why are you back? Let him eat two meals a day I'll give you ten times the salary. OK sir It's family stuff. Almost busy. I came here when I had nothing to do. Hey Jojo Why haven't you come home these days? Are you free this weekend? Go watch a play with your mother Mom, I don't have time these days. Jojo Why is your voice so weak? Are you feeling unwell? mom Look how my brother made my sister-in-law suffer like this. No, I have to go find him to settle the score. Hey Jingning It was me that night. go out Brother, what happened to my sister-in-law? Brother, you haven't been home these days. What happened? You had a fight with my sister-in-law I hope she can have a fight with me. All of you should stop bothering him during this time. All the others are All other members of the Shen family Do you understand what I mean? elder brother go out Miss Wen, do you want to rest for a few more days? No, I'm fine. The holiday is over I'm going to work Look here. You need to modify It's fine like this I look at Wen Qiang I understand Bu Shi Chen Fu Ren Could you do me a favor? Jing Li Ni Yi Hou Bu Yao Jiao Wo Chen Fu Ren Liao Um What's up? To be honest Jin Tian Kai Hui De Shi Hou Chen Zong Xin Qing Yi Zhi Bu Hao I made another big mistake. At this time, hit the gun. Isn't that just looking for trouble? Please Manager, this is a problem for you. Thank you ma'am Thank you Okay, this is done. The rest you follow this plan order Hello, Ms. Liu Dui Liao Zhe Ge Shi Chen Zong Yao De Zi Liao I'm afraid I'll have to trouble Miss Wen to deliver it personally. Why do you have something to do? I have something to do. I have a big emergency. I have to go now. Then I'll go first I'm here to deliver information. Did you have dinner Wen Qiang, I actually want to talk to you about that That night's incident It's okay if you don't want to Just pretend it never happened. After that night You had plenty of chances to explain it to me. But you've been hiding it from me the whole time If it weren't for Jin Pingzhou revealing all this How long are you going to keep this secret from me? If I had been honest with you from the beginning Will you still marry me? Yes, I have many opportunities to say But I'm afraid I'm afraid you'll leave me I'm afraid you won't accept me at all I'm afraid you'll separate from me I've been thinking If one day Will you fall in love with me In this case I will cause you less harm. I will have less burden in my heart. This way I won't have to betray Death Penalty Wen Qiang I ask you During the time we were together Have you ever been attracted to me? Have you ever had any feelings for me? sorry I need some time to process these things. good Then I'll get off work first. I'll send you back to Jiang Shengyang No need How come you came back suddenly? oh I mean you haven't been home for a week. Why so sudden? There's a restaurant nearby. I'll be back when I get a little closer to here. If you don't want me to come back I'm leaving now It's too late. Don't bother. Rest early You've been drinking Um Drink a little Rest early lady Chen Zong Qu Wai Di Kai Hui De Tuan Dui Shao Liao Ge Fan Yi We recommend you go With Mr. Shen? Yeah We'll be leaving soon. You are the perfect match. Oops Madam Please If you don't go, I'll get scolded again. Um Please All right Yes Everyone is. This project is good. Scenic Elegance Map The tea is poured out Thanks Hi sister-in-law I heard that you went on a business trip with my brother. It's a meeting Oh, you guys finally made peace. Thank God You guys scared our whole family. us Sorry to make you worry. I'm really worried. After all, my brother is a tough guy. He always keeps a lot of things from you. As a result, the misunderstanding became bigger and bigger So what did your brother hide from me? You don't know He has liked you for many years. Many years How many years is that? Hey, do you remember What kind of club activities does our university have? Um Anyway, he liked you for a long time when he saw you for the first time. Do you believe in love at first sight? Hello, classmate Let's learn more about the dubbing club. Hello, classmate Learn more about dubbing club Hello classmate Find out more about the training center Tasting the clock Sister-in-law Oh, my memory is a bit fuzzy. Anyway, my brother really likes you. He is definitely not a compromiser. But he is a dumb person. So sister-in-law, please forgive him. I'm so sorry, sister. I almost killed you by accident just now. Sorry, sister. I almost killed you. Chen Yao Qu Kan Kan Zen Yao Hui Shi A Xian Deng Deng Wen Qiao, you dare to hit me I'll hit you. I won't apologize to you. Stop, I came here today to tell you something. Did You Know My stepfather wants to marry me to a cripple Go to the shade What does it have to do with me? Of course it's your business I heard that you were kept by a big boss. You call your sponsor dad like this and say something to that side Ask them to remove the shade trees Hey, wait a minute. I know you won't help me for no reason So I'm here to negotiate with you. As long as you promise me How about I give you what you want in this matter? What I want Wen Qiang, don't you want your mother to care about you the most? When I was little, I kept crying for my mother. My eyes are bleeding from crying Ha ha As long as you help me I'll let my mom come and stay with you for a few days. What makes you think that what I want at the age of 6 I'm 26 and I still want it. Wen Sisi, I'm warning you If you follow me again I'll ask my husband to speed up your marriage. Wen Qiang, you are so shameless The sponsor can also be called husband You are someone's pet. You are not worthy of taking advantage of your power to bully others. Jojo I know Sisi has a bad temper. And love impulse But you hit him The lawsuit is so broad. Jojo's Mom Please help me once Just tell that side. Don't let Sisi marry him. Marry that cripple Sisi's life is ruined, Qiaoqiao You feel sorry for Wen Sisi marrying a disabled man Then don't you feel sorry for me? Don't you think it's pitiful that I'm being kept by someone? I did not mean that What do you mean? You don't want Wen Sisi to marry a disabled person? I still don't want to be kept You choose one What I choose is what I get. Yeah Um yes Mother Why Why did you only take my sister and not me? I choose Jojo. sorry I hope Sisi doesn't marry that cripple Jojo, please Help Sisi If something happens to Qiao Qiao Sisi Mom doesn't want to live anymore Balls, balls, balls cheers Sister Jue, why do you suddenly want to drink? You drink less Gen Chen Zong Chao Jia Liao Miss, let me tell you I found out something What Do you remember three years? Three years ago I posted a circle of friends It was you who had an argument with Jianping Zhou. Then we went out for a drink I remember that post on my friend circle Bye bye The next one is better Then what I just posted this circle of friends I received a mysterious call. At that time, that person kept asking Shi Jie where he was. Now that I think about it, this voice must be our boss's. You have such a brain hole It's a shame not to write a novel. Chen Zong Na Ge Tian Zhi Jiao Zi How could you be so humble for me? no Drink or not drink Hey, senior sister, stop drinking. You drank too much Don't stop me, don't stop me Who are you? boss I know it. I know it. I guessed right. Hey, I didn't take off my clothes. I will help you Then I'll be outside the door If you have any problem, just call me Why Only soak for 20 minutes Did you hear that? Wen Qiao Wen Qiao Wen Qiao Wen Qiao What's wrong with you? Are you okay? Mom knows that my sister doesn't care about me at all Grandma is gone now. In this world No one in this world cares about me anymore Hahaha Wen Qiang I am here I love you Stop crying, okay? And me? etc. Do you need me to help you with Wen Sisi's matter? I haven't figured it out yet. Okay, I support you in whatever decision you make. Xu Meng said you had looked for me before Did you ask him about me? He still recognized that one. When you broke up with Jin Pingzhou I drove a long time to find you I thought the opportunity I had been waiting for was finally here. I didn't expect you guys to get back together. Am I ridiculous? How am I here? Do you have a headache? Do you want to eat something? Are you sober? Um It's almost there I didn't mean to leave you here last night. I'm worried that no one will take care of you. Lao Qing stayed without your consent. I have something else to go out for. Remember to eat breakfast after you get up I'll ask Sheng Yang to take you there later. I'm leaving first Oh my god What am I doing? Wen Qiang, you are useless My boyfriend has helped me with the marriage. Just be a good dog of your sponsor. Boy friend I tell you My boyfriend is in the maritime high society Those are all worthy of the name. You wait. You gave me that slap I'll ask my boyfriend to pay me back tenfold New Boyfriend Ah, I walked in a hurry this morning. There are many things I haven't had time to tell you. I'm sorry. I'm telling you I'm sorry. I respect whatever decision you make now. Even if you want to leave me As long as you are doing well As long as you are happy I respect any choice you make. From now on, you have the final say in our relationship. Thank you Wang Sisi, what do you want? It's me Shinpei Junior High School Is it you, Wang Sisi's new boyfriend? Am I satisfied? I know you don't want anything to do with me. But I can't forget you what to do So I tried every possible way to get involved with you I'm already married marry After knowing what happened that night Ni Huan Hui Hao Wu Ge He De Gen Chen Tu Zai Yi Qi Ma None of your business How come? Wen Qiang, if I make public what happened that night Ni Cai Chen Du Hui Bu Hui Bei Ren Ma Si Wen Qiang, I have evidence in my hand now Prove that what happened that night You're still my girlfriend Ni De Chen Zong This is considered knowing three and being three, right? Jin Pingzhou, do you think you are clean? Zhe Yao Wei Hu Ni De Chen Zong OK as long as you are willing Then we'll fight to the death. It's Shen Wenqiang I have more than just him in my hands What do you want? divorce Divorce from Shen Du Jin Pingzhou, you are really disgusting I don't want to take this step. 6 years between us Can't it be compared with the six months between you and him? Why are you unhappy? I was just thinking about something What perhaps Divorce is the best option for us. Is this your choice? I'm a little tired We can go through the divorce procedures first. Wait until you have dealt with the company's affairs before announcing it. You can put the blame on me. It's okay I heard that Jin Shuang called my wife two days ago. I drank too much that day I don't know what I said in the heat of the moment. I don't know how much I should drink next time. Will you bring up those words again? Who to talk to You can't control your mouth Better sew it up Just kidding. Reporter: You said you have my enemy in your hands. Why bother my wife? Come to you Na Jin Tian Chen Zong Shi Lai Gen Wo Tan Jiao Yi De Um Of course, as long as you help me get in a little bit Stand firm and promise me I will not have any contact with Wen Qiao anymore. What you want Is it your turn to decide? Sir, you want to report a scandal on me Of course I'm going to report a scandal about you That's fair. The cause of your father's death is worth my investigation. As if you have evidence. If I don't have enough evidence How dare I come here to make a deal with you? Your Scandal I can have as many as I want Make a deal with me Don't bother me anymore. Madam, I don't want to tell you a second time. Chen Zong Pa Liao Did Wen Qiao ask you for a divorce? I know he loves me the most. It was only once. From now on, I will be the one standing next to him That's enough It's late today. I'll move out early tomorrow morning. I know you said those words because of Jin Pingzhou Right What he said doesn't threaten me at all How come? But he said Wen Qiang, please give me another chance. Okay, I beg you. Chen Du Don't do this I'm sorry I made you unhappy again. I admit What happened that night It's a huge psychological shadow for me. But God bless the result is not too bad So let's let this matter go. Let's start over, shall we? All these years I didn't dare look back Because my past was so bad. If I look back, it will only make me feel worse. But these days I've been thinking If I could go back to that night Let me see your face Let me know that person is a good one I like mine I will cherish my people How nice it would be Cloud Really Um Very good Chen Tai Tai Today is your birthday Think about what gift you want. How do you know today is my birthday? On my ID But it's not the same day as today I said I have a crush In fact, I have been present at your birthdays over the years It's just that you haven't discovered it You are so handsome How could I not remember? Even if we just passed by, it would still leave a deep impression. But you loved him at that time So I didn't find it anymore. You are jealous Why didn't you tell me all these years? Afraid you know I'm afraid you don't know Just like this, slowly, over the years, you have passed I'm not as pitiful as you think. On the contrary, because you are here I feel at ease alright Chen Tai Tai Jin Tian Ke Shi Ni De Sheng Ri Think about what gift you want. Don't be unhappy. I I haven't figured it out yet. You decide good 8 years I can finally love you so much Yes husband God's Wife Wen Qiang, why are you so inhumane? Mom is so sick now and you don't even come to see her What's good to see? Who are you? You are the wild man that Wen Qiao is looking for Give the phone to Wen Qiao Let me say a few more words to you I gave you face, didn't I? Give me Wen Qiao Jiao Chen Du What The ears were cut off when they didn't hear I'll tell you one last time Wo Jiao Chen Du Wen Qiao's husband If you have any questions, feel free to contact me. I will believe your lies Just pretend you two can do it. Sisi, please don't bother your sister. Don't look for Jin Pingzhou anymore. I think you can't control that man. Do you know what Jin Pingzhou's current status is? If I could marry him The rich can walk sideways Sisi Mom is dying Mommy really can't leave you alone Mom, don't talk about this. The most urgent thing is to find Brother Zhou and ask him clearly Who is the person who supports Wen Qiao? Is this the most urgent matter? Otherwise Didn't you hear how proud he was on the phone? Oh, what are you talking about? The president of Zhonghui Group is my husband. How is it possible? If this is true Doesn't that mean he will always be superior to me in this life? Look who it is, don't you know? Don't go find him He won't bother you. No, I'll go find Brother Zhou right now. Tell me what's going on Brother Zhou, why don't you answer my calls recently? I've been looking for you so hard. Stop talking nonsense You just said that you came to see me because of Wen Qiao I called him yesterday Ta Shuo Ta He Zhong Hui Ji Tuan Chen Du Jie Hun Liao Of course I don't believe it But he said you also know So Brother Zhou Is this true? How do I know? Wen Qiao is lying But then again Brother Zhou, what is your relationship with Wen Qiao? Why does he keep mentioning you? I've been talking to your sister for 6 years He didn't tell you anything. What is 1966? He didn't want me for 6 years So you stay with me Just because he blocked all my contact information I just asked you to borrow your phone. Wen Qiang is fine You can go now Wen Qiang Wen Qiang What are you thinking about? How could he be so sick and dying? His new home The family is so rich He is so particular about maintenance. How could I allow myself to reach the late stage? So do you want to go see him? If you don't want No one can force you If you want I'll go with you No, I haven't thought about it yet. Come on, I'll take you somewhere. Where you guess By the way, I have prepared a little surprise for you. Wait for me to get it. What? soon Wen Qiao Wen Qiao Wen Qiao Chen Yang Jiao Ren Ma Shang Gei Wo Zhao Dao Wen Qiao De Wei Zhi Fast Wen Qiao Where is Wen Qiao? Where is Wen Qiao? Who are you? What do you guys want to do? Who are you, Wen Qiao? Didn't I tell you long ago Wo Jiao Chen Du Wen Qiao's husband Where is Wen Qiao? Uncle I know you are really Wen Qiao's husband It's true that endless coffins don't shed tears explain Where is Wen Qiang? Please Please Don't kill me, please don't hurt Sisi Don't hurt her When you begged me not to hurt her Have you ever thought about your other daughter, Wen Qiao? She was also hurt in danger Don't kill me Don't kill me I said I said In the basement ah Dare to hit my brother Ahhh So much nonsense Ahhh Take them out to me. Yes, let me go, let me go Are you okay? Look Sorry, my mother She posted a photo of herself slitting her wrists to commit suicide If you can't see me She's going to die I was in a panic, so Actually you all know This might be a trap set by your sister, right? Do you think you can bear it? So I can definitely bear it this time. Is it right You are afraid of missing the last time you see your mother sorry I don't need you to say sorry Chen Tai Tai Wo Yao Shuo Duo Shao Ci Ni Cai Neng Gou Ji Zhu I will feel sad when I see you being wronged Remember I hope you can trust me absolutely. Any danger in the future I'm the first person you think of, okay? I will always believe in you The two beggars have been dealt with. Wen Sisi also went to prison Madam's mother He left a suicide note after his death I know. What else? Jin Pingzhou's arm was hit unintentionally My left arm is broken. He also left a letter to his wife good The boss also brought you a message What Why didn't you go home for so many days? Did you forget what I said? Come back and make dolls no Why you Jojo, what's wrong with you? Sheng Yang called out It's Joe Joe Mr. Shi, you may be a father. Being a Dad You mean you're pregnant? Could this mean anything else? Very good Hahahahahahahahahaha