Vanessa: from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com. Huh? Have you ever been watching your favorite movie then, &quot;Oh my goodness, it's so fast. How in the this.&quot; Well, don't worry. You are not alone. Many of, &quot;Oh, it's so fast. I will never understand lesson, you are going to learn five improving your listening skills, and To help you master today's lesson, I have my beloved students, so that you can download out all of the tips and ideas that are mentioned make sure to answer Vanessa's Challenge Question, lesson. Don't forget to click on the link below Let's get started with the first don't watch a movie or TV show that you are That's so frustrating. Instead, apply secret already know in your native language. You are possibly even some of the words. If you But this is a great way to let go of fear, to I only understand every couple words and that you already know in your native language. language? Great, watch it in English. Have Excellent, watch it in English. This is a great listening skills to understand fast English. words are pronounced. Instead, follow secret this problem and that is study some common if you ask me, &quot;Vanessa, where are you going?&quot; Okay, maybe you understood a couple parts of this, happening so that when other people say this, Let's break down this sentence, &quot;I'm 'onna I'm really saying I am going to. First, I'm I'm pushing together, or linking together take a nap. I'm gonna study English.&quot; But we and say, &quot;I'm 'onna,&quot; which is what I said listening for, &quot;I am going to,&quot; you will not linking principles in English, contractions, &quot;'Onna,&quot; your ears will be more aware of it. &quot;I'm 'onna go to the mountains, go becomes duh. This is very common after the duh school tomorrow.&quot; Go duh school. &quot;I got duh What's happening with that last word, mountains? N sound at the end of a word, we drop Listen to these other words that but-n. But-n. Threaten becomes threat-n. Now you can say this word clearly and say, I'm But you're going to hear people say, you're gonna, people say mountains, and you need to be able to your listening skills for comprehension so that daily conversations. So with this one very I'm 'onna go duh the mountains have a little pronunciation practice. you're also improving your listening, so they I'm gonna go to the mountains. I'm gonna to I'm gonna to go to the mountains. Lovely. A lot of English learners try to watch something where people are speaking so comfortably fearful. &quot;Please don't ask me a question, because they can't understand the conversation discouraging. You feel like you'll never be able So we need to just take it slow. I know we're expect yourself to be able to understand English So a problem that a lot of English learners have they're not realistic about it. So, let's see how Number three is to take some notes. Whenever write it down in a notebook, write it down on your every day, this will build and build and build Take a look at this sentence. I got to go well, house and you look at the time, I got to go, I'm but what's happening here. There are a lot of We could say, I have got to go. This means I But when we reduce that, we cut gotta, gotta, but we don't pronounce the T. in American English, the Ts change to a D sound. gotta go. Oh, sorry. I gotta go, I'm going to Sorry, I gotta go. Sorry, I gotta go. Great. You reduced English phrase. You did it, great. So because you conquered that mountain, mountain. English students making is don't just speak with point, but really to overcome that, secret number There is nothing like having a Do you know what real-time means? It means it's rewind and go back. No, if you don't understand because you're going to need them to repeat. I didn't catch that. Can you repeat it?&quot;. Or speaking with someone else in a real-time skills and also help you to find the holes understand some topics, but other topics it's too as my French listening skills grew, I could there was the father of my host family, There was ways that he was linking or reducing mumbling. It was so challenging. And finally, when So it is essential to be able to have real time like that might be a little too scary for you where you can find someone else to speak with, speak with me. You can click on the link up vocabulary, some key questions, and we will have good thing about this type of practice is that the video and go back and practice it again. So this secret number four, speak with somebody else. learners make is they just watch English lessons you can't only do that. You also need to be able because that's what happens in the real whether you're talking with someone at a hotel, it's not exactly an English teacher who speaks you're an English learner. Nope, it's important to pretty well, maybe you're using subtitles, maybe to my conversation? What if we added someone who Dan, check out this clip. See how you feel. Can Dan: Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: but those weren't that bad. Working at a coffee shop is good. Okay, what was it? It's Sharpshooter. Can you explain about that job? Yeah. So I don't know if you've ever seen this place where somebody takes your picture and I was that guy. So we took the same on one of the rivers in Pittsburgh, Kind of like a cruise boat, but river cruise. It was very kitschy though. Not high class at we forced them to stop and go through the was like required, but people were like, Vanessa: and phones, they didn't need that. Yeah. Mind you this in like 2010 where people That's at least getting more popular. They didn't need your picture. And so I had to take everybody's picture. And the side and said, &quot;Hey, come over here, buy this terrible rip off. Even I knew it was a terrible in 2010 when I was doing that job. Maybe 10 years before that, Dan: 30 years ago. Okay, maybe that went all right for you. who speaks a little bit faster and maybe Check out this clip and watch what we're saying. So there's a lot of different factors that go into this market, it's great to work with a realtor. We would have had no clue what to do. I pretty house without you. I'm so glad it worked out. It's so cool to the right places, even if it's a little it's always a bummer, but people always land in keep that heart, like when somebody loses, it's Vanessa: was meant to happen. Another place would come up. the next step? What if we took out the video Check out this quick clip where audio of me speaking with my friend, who's Brandi: it's a big chunk of change, but sometimes lenders than it is to put this towards a down payment. is an important thing, because they can help guide get the house that you really want. It's a little bit tougher in that situation. What someone helpful, maybe someone like me, someone challenging conversations who could introduce you to not feel so overwhelmed when you're listening fast English like never before, and maybe invite you to join me in the 30 Day English you will grow your listening skills so that you across the world when you travel, people on the Click on the link in the description to get a only on this YouTube video. So make sure you of other English learners who have felt more skills grow so that they can go into the real Now it's time for you to use what you've what is something that you got ta do today? I gotta do some work. I gotta pick up my kids when you're using this and practicing it yourself, thank you so much for learning English with me. lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. PDF worksheet for this lesson. With this and never forget what you have learned. Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel