Greetings to all. Forest road. 700 m long. 3rd shortest path in my career. One road was 400m that you could see. Then one road six hundred meters long and this one is 700 m long. The topsoil has been removed here. The road has depressions and bends. Here is the valley. Here is a valley. Pool area. This is how it looks short but curvy. There is a circle at the end of the road. We will start building this road. As far as there are valleys here, in many places the ditch is only on one side, the higher side. Here, you can see there that one side is higher, there will be a ditch, and on the other side, a ditch will form from the embankment. That's the way here. Therefore, I will be able to dig ditches quite quickly. We will wait for the bulldozer and make the base of the road. Then we'll see how we do here. I'll sort it out here... Here's another forest road with a circle. Then we have to make a new path from this circle. Here is the connection to the new road. The new road is a little to this side. Not exactly in the same place as the old exit. Here's the old way out. There was also a culvert. We dismantled it. The beginning of the new path will be in this place. Everything still needs to be filled in here. Here you will be able to enter the new road. I will arrange everything here, I'll dig up the edge that's higher. I will arrange everything so that we can drive in here. Excess soil must be dug there as well. The ditch is in this place, all the material has to be dug out so that the base space can be filled. Here you can see the levels of the old road. The entire thickness of the road. Here is a layer of gravel. There is still a mystical layer of earth. Sand and road base. There are 3 colors. I keep digging up the excess soil here. We will also need to fill a layer of sand, a layer of gravel. I'll continue to sort things out here. Here, here is the first bend. We smoothed the base of the road a little with the material we removed from the beginning. Very little, something is leveled. And this place is starting to look like a road. There is a bend here. There is a big valley. There is a drop from this place. In principle, the entire road area remains lower there. This is the highest place. There is a difference of several meters. The bulldozer has also arrived, I will start digging ditches and dump the material into the dumper and the bulldozer will level it in place of the road base. That's the plan. For now, the ditch will be along that side of the road, on this side, on the left, there is no ditch. How can you distinguish between the sides of the road? When you stand at the beginning of the road, face this way. Then you can also understand which is the right side and which is the left side. Therefore, don't get confused when I tell you, because here the path of the tablet is the other way around. Another may begin to wonder why I say this is the left side and this is the right side. Here on the tablet, this is the left side and this is the right side. The beginning of the road is here, so the sides also look from the beginning of the road. There is no ditch here on the left side of the road. Quite a large piece. I'm at this exit and the ditch isn't there yet. On the left side, the ditch will start a little further ahead. I don't think it's a ditch either. It is such a slope. Then we will see later. I will start digging a ditch. The ditch here is not about 150 m. The ditch is on one side of the road, so I will dig it today. I don't think the ditch will be deep. This place has only 10 cm, 20 cm. It will be quick. I will be able to dig a ditch quickly. Well here it is. Ditch bucket. The ditch bucket has a novelty. We put on new knives. The original knives are worn. On the forest road that we built during the winter, the knives wore out quite a bit, digging a ditch on a frozen edge. Now it can be seen very well. Screw-on knives are now . So that they do not have to be cut out all the time. Just like the tilt bucket, holes are drilled in the old knife and the new knives are screwed on. Now I can also easily replace them. Anytime they wear out. You won't have to cut anything out anymore. Here, this old knife will not have to be cut out. Here you can see how it has worn. And when the ditch bucket is put down like this. The knife no longer cuts the ditch as it should. At this point it cuts, but there is no knife at this point yet and it did not cut this section. It was quite difficult to dig a ditch. That's the news. Then, when one side is worn, the knife can be turned to the other side. This area will wear out, then it will be necessary to turn it to the other side and work further. Nothing will have to be welded and cut out. But that old knife has to be cut, so it's quite a bit of work. Let's try how it works. One more thing I forgot to show you made for me. Such news. Hydraulic hoses would not be thrown around. I took the old, fast connections. I can't pull them out with one hand. Old hose quick connectors. Like this. Hoses will be in place at all times. They were no longer thrown around. It usually happened that the ends of the hoses fell out somewhere and fell into the mud. Now at least they will have somewhere to secure them. And everything will be fine. This is the principle here. Here is the latch and all is well. And nothing falls out. Very well. That's what it looks like. A little rusty, but we'll polish it up right away. I need to replace the excavator bucket in the system. I haven't dug ditches in a very long time. It will take some getting used to. I am shown -20 cm. I'll drive off and you can push a big dick here and that's it. We had a bit of uncertainty with the heights. To be compared, we always have heights because they can vary. Somehow, in the end, we come to one common denominator and build the road. We simply compare the heights in the beginning, understand what is being shown to whom, if there is any difference, and then adapt to each other. The bulldozer will push the excess material out of the trench. Because the road base has to be filled in quite a lot. There is no ditch on this side. Left side, right side. Here are 2 more excavators. They start working tomorrow. Then we will all try to make this road quite quickly. So what. I need to start to refresh my memory on digging ditches. I remove the green lines from the project surface. The edge of the ditch bucket must be set. I haven't dug a ditch in a very long time. About half a year. Yes, quite a long time has passed. I'll remember what it's like to dig right away. As always, someone has put the excavator bucket on the road again. It usually is. Well, nothing to do. It gets in the way a little bit . This new bucket is cool. It is very good to dig. All water flows down from the highest point Behold, there is a culvert in this place. This means that the water flows to this first valley. To this oblique side. Water also flows here from this place. It will be with the flow of water. A bulldozer is leveling the base of the road, but I need a dump truck . After just a few times, the ditch bucket will remain shiny. The bushings for the bucket were also changed. Made such a small repair. It doesn't move anymore. That bushing at the end of the cylinder, which attaches to the cup. When I tilted the ditch bucket, it moved, in that place Now the ditch cup doesn't move as much anymore. Drive forward. Behold, there will be a culvert in this place. The water will flow towards them. A hole must be dug in that pile. I'll do that a little later. So that the water can flow away. The ditch is quite shallow. I have to stand at an angle. Therefore, the position of the ditch bucket in the ditch is shown incorrectly. The ditches point the bucket as obliquely as the excavator stands. The ditch is a bit winding, but it's nothing bad, when the road base is built, the ditch will straighten out. That's what it's like when you have to stand at an angle. The ditch is small, so it will not be a problem to fix it. Well, one, two 150 m have been dug up. I have to dig the ditch further into that valley. This exit will have a culvert. Will be I'll keep digging further, then show you what it looks like here later.