Make way Get up What are you doing? Out of the way Why don't you watch where you're going? What if you bumped my Grandpa? You eat it Good boy Xingyun, Grandpa's not hungry, you eat it If you won't eat, I won't eat Ok, Ok, Ok, here, here.. We'll save it to eat together then Don't go.. Who are you? Don't worry I'm not a bad guy I don't care if you're good or bad We have nothing to do with this Please be merciful and let us leave Wait a minute I have something to ask If you could take this purse to Wuli Pavilion outside the city the money inside is all yours Alright I can help you send a message Remember, you must make the Wuli Pavilion people leave at top speed Dare I ask your name, hero? I'm Lu Ji Go quickly Hurry Run fast Faster.. Who was that Lu Ji? Why were so many people chasing him? They.. Who is it? Which ignoramus dares to sneak attack the Young Master? Who the hell is it? Have the guts to come out for a contest with the Young Master Come out! Come out! Can't even hide from a stone and still dare call yourself Young Master? Die of shame Crazy girl How dare you shoot me with a slingshot? You don't know shame You cheeky little beggar Who are you calling a crazy girl? Who are you calling a little beggar? Xingyun, a few less words.. Talk, who are you guys? Why do you know Uncle Lu's name? Oh, you want to know? Then first give Young Master an apology You.. first you answer my question If you don't apologise then I won't answer You! If you don't answer I'll put your forehead in a hornet's nest Xuan No insolence Dad Dad They were just talking about Uncle Lu Hero Lu Lu Ji asked me to carry a message to tell you to get out of here quickly This purse never leaves Lu Ji Did he have an accident? In Yuzhou City, Lu Ji encountered a Xuan Ming Jiao ambush So what about Uncle Lu Ji? Where is he now? He.. I'm afraid.. ..the possibities are grim You've only glanced How do you know I'm the one Lu Ji entrusted you to find? And how do you know I'm called Lu? This.. Grandpa What are you doing? Hero Lu I've fulfilled Lu Ji's last request entrusted to me I just have one thing to ask Get up and talk Please Hero Lu accept Li Xingyun as an apprentice Apprentice? Apprentice? No way! I don't want to be an apprentice Even if I wanted to be an apprentice I wouldn't want this crazy girl's Dad as a master Aiya.. Dad.. Don't accept this little beggar as a disciple Who cares? If my Dad took you that would be your good luck You're a little beggar, why are you unwilling? I'm not willing I just don't care about your crazy girl's Dad being a master Xingyun Have less to say Hero Lu I've already got one foot in the grave Now what I'm most worried about is Li Xingyun If you could keep Xingyun as a disciple Even just to work really hard I'd also be willing The two of you promised Lu Ji to come and find me It must have been for other purposes You recognized the symbol on the purse Wasn't it that you saw my name, Lu You? This.. If it's just martial arts to protect yourself it's a commonplace thing But if you care I'm not a warrior This matter of taking an apprentice I'm afraid I must disappoint you Grandpa, what are you doing? Hero Lu In my state now if I have to protect this child I'm powerless Compassionate Hero, please grant this old slave's request Since the boy is already out of the way of misery Why do you want him back fighting in Jianghu again? To be honest I'm not interested in his affairs Forgive me I'm unable to help This jade pendant You take it back Xingyun and Grandpa can go to Jianghu There's no need to kowtow to people What an ungrateful little beggar Dad, let's go Want to go? It's not that easy Dad It's Uncle Lu Ji Xuan Ming Jiao's White Wu Chang Xuan It's alright Dad They.. I can't accompany you anymore You have to live well Do the things you want to do Grandpa.. Why did you have to block me? Who asked you to block for me? I don't want you to die You can't die What a deep affection between master and servant Hero Lu I heard you have a treasure in your hands Could you let me take a look? Lu Ji.. Did you kill him? Not only Lu Ji I'm going to kill you too Hero Lu You hit me It's so painful Xuan Ming Jiao's Black and White Wu Chang have always been inseparable Since you've already appeared why would he be in hiding? Xuan, run! Let me go! You're an ugly weirdo My Dad won't let you go Hero Lu's hand holds the Longquan Sword we're looking for As long as you hand over the Longquan Sword we can let your little daughter have a life Considering we Chang siblings together are no opponent for Hero Lu Otherwise.. how could we exchange conditions with Hero Lu? Despicable Alright I promise to exchange with you If you're bluffing I'll take you two siblings and grind your bones to dust Hero Lu, rest assured we siblings never kill those who are useless Smelly brat Are you bored with living? You dare bite Wu Chang? Brother, look out! Brother, are you alright? Hero Lu's reputation is well deserved It's just that Wu Chang demands lives When you're doomed to die, you can't keep your life Hero Lu look at the palm of your hand Are you feeling your whole body's weak? A thousand corpses poison palm Hero Lu You're a spent force now As soon as you exercise a little the corpse poison will invade your heart and lungs Xuan Ling Xuan Ling Your internal injuries have relapsed? I was just hurt by his internal force It triggered the old disease Lu You Jie! Dad! Dad! Dad, what's wrong with you? Hero Lu You were forced to exercise even the immortals can't save you Brother We've got it Return this to Xuan Ming Jiao it could be a great contribution We got the thing It's no use to keep this Lu You Jie Hm.. Those two dolls are also hidden danger Lu You Jie Your time has come Erotic ghosts Wu Chang demand lives Brother, are you alright? Be lenient wherever possible Why kill the innocent? In a rush to kill? Who are you? Going so far as to block Xuan Ming Jiao's work? Yang Shu Zi? Brother We're not Yang Shu Zi's opponents Yang Old-timer See you around Dad.. Don't be in trouble Don't abandon Xuan alone Dad.. You Jie I'll help you force the poison out No need brother Corpse poison has entered my heart Now there's no drug that can save me This sword.. is of great importance Don't let it fall into the wrong hands Don't worry I'll take good care of the sword Come.. Child.. Come here.. Now I.. What's worrying me most.. ..is Xuan and this child You Jie This jade pendant.. This child is now alone His Grandfather died to save him His dying wish was to entrust him to me If you stand aside and do nothing I.. I've failed a great trust Just permit this child and Xuan to enter under your door together Henceforth, they.. must stay far from the Jianghu strife Yes I promise you Xuan from now on Uncle Yang is the Shi Fu to you two You must be obedient to Shi Fu in everything Dad.. Xuan doesn't want to leave you You Jie.. Dad Dad! Dad! Dad! Dad.. 8 years later Ming Di formidable in all directions Xuan Ming Jiao is all I respect Ming Di formidable in all directions Xuan Ming Jiao is all I respect Ming Di formidable in all directions Xuan Ming Jiao is all I respect Ming Di formidable in all directions Xuan Ming Jiao is all I respect Meng Po is seen Ming Di has retreated to practice From today everything in Jiao will be handled by me for the time being Comply with Meng Po's instructions Where are Black and White Wu Chang? Subordinates are here Meng Po, please instruct It is heard that Yuzhou's Drug King This item is beneficial for Ming Di's magical powers You two are assigned to go to Yuzhou and bring the Fire Fungus back quickly Subordinates do your bidding 8 years ago Longquan disappeared in Yuzhou territory The two of you went before In passing, make discrete enquiries Yes! Ji Ru Xue to pay respects to Nu Di The Nine Days Sanji are about their tasks Xue.. you served me from childhood I see you are clever and sensible This time I called you to come because there's an important job for you to do I hope you won't let me down Nu Di, please instruct In Yuzhou City a Millennium Fire Fungus has appeared I want you to go to Yuzhou at once Bring it back I'll live up to Nu Di's expectations Shi Ge Shi Mei What are you doing here? You've got guts Most of the day's gone but the basket's empty See if Shi Fu beats you Shi Mei No, no, no.. Heroine Heroine, have mercy Come here Shi Mei When we go back later You are going to say a few nice words to Shi Fu for me.. That.. depends on your performance Ok, Ok.. Oh yeah, Shi Mei I'll take you to a particularly fun place What place? A secret garden Ok.. Let's go Here.. Shi Ge This is the secret garden you spoke of? Mm What do you think? Like it? I like it But.. I always feel such a beautiful scene will disappear in the blink of an eye There's always a feeling of sadness Sometimes too sad Then close your eyes Don't think about anything Just lay quietly like this Wait for the sun to go down then we'll go back Mm Shi Ge You're really not scared Shi Fu will punish you? Shi Mei Don't be a wet blanket In my opinion the old man just isn't normal Shi Ge How can you say that about Shi Fu? Think about it carefully This which door, which school, Shi Fu that's what he's like Since I came to Jianlu he's never taught me, even if it was just one stroke Instead, he gave me the medical prescriptions to memorize You learn medicine with Teacher until you've memorized this medical book What for? Why is only Lu Lin Xuan learning martial arts and I have to learn medicine? This isn't fair, I want to learn martial arts as well Why do you want to learn martial arts? For revenge of course Teacher gives you two days Within two days if you can't finish memorizing this book then go up the mountain and bring back 50 buckets of water You.. As for the study of martial arts I'll have to talk about it later If you're obsessed with revenge Teacher will dispose of you personally to clean up the gateway I'm stuffed with boredom doing this every day Besides memorizing medicine, As I see it he's just afraid of being old and getting sick with no one to take care of him So this is in advance raising a doctor at home Then when the time comes, even the medical costs can be saved Crafty old man Sssh.. What's wrong Shi Mei? Is what I said wrong? That's what Shi Ge says.. Shi Fu.. You take it that I farted just now Go back for me I'd like to see what exactly you two have learned Shi Fu.. Your disciple can already recite the book of prescriptions Shi Fu, please test it Xuan.. Huh? You learned swordplay with me from childhood It's been more than eight years Teacher has passed it all on to you stroke by stroke Today let me see what you've learned Alright, Shi Fu You guys fight I'll stay out of the way Don't you always want to watch? Today you can watch the battle I'll just watch then You're the one who allowed it Shi Fu, please teach me Today, you will show all that you've learned Teacher will also show no mercy Shi Mei It's useless all show and no substance Shi Fu Don't keep fighting Shi Mei will get hurt To learn be prepared to get beaten Why? You learned for eight years and can only bear this little? If I'd known you were so useless I would have just passed the It's better than him stealing it behind my back Come out! Kneel down Such a bad character at this young age Teacher won't let you learn martial arts so you actually steal it? You've never treated me as your apprentice That's why I deliberately hid You.. You just think of me as an outsider And you.. Your Shi Ge wants to learn martial arts and I won't let him You have a chance to learn, but you don't work hard Keep practising the sword No practice, then tonight, no dinner Shi Mei What's wrong with Shi Fu today? Why is he in such a bad temper? You learned for 8 years and yet you collapse at the first blow How can you face enemies in future? How can you be worthy of your dead Father? You don't deserve to be Lu You Jie's daughter Useless thing Get up! Keep fighting! Shi Fu, don't keep fighting! Shi Mei will die Shi Mei Give up! Don't fight again! I am Lu You Jie's daughter I won't give up! Very well Startled Rainbow? Shi Fu, Xuan wants to see the Demonstrate it once, just once Alright I'll give you a glimpse of the amazing Startled Rainbow Xuan Hide well Yes! Eyes wide open Watch closely Shi Fu Don't! Shi Mei Lin Xuan Lin Xuan Lin Xuan Why? Why did you treat Lin Xuan like this? I'm the one who made the mistake Why didn't you punish me? Now it's your turn Haven't you always thought medicine was useless? Your Shi Mei is seriously injured She's going to die here You take out the skills you've learned over so many years Cure her I remind you Her life is in your hands Why don't you do it? Are you afraid you can't cure your Shi Mei? For these years, if you'd been willing to study your medical prescriptions how would your Shi Mei come to this? Now when your Shi Mei needs you most you can't even cure her How are you worthy of Lin Xuan's kindness in letting you secretly study swordwork these years Sure enough you and your Shi Mei are generally useless What the hell are you? You've long been tolerated How dare you raise your hand to Shi Fu? Today I'm going to take a look at your stolen martial arts Did you learn a little after all? The body technique just now am I oversensitive? I have to try him out again This is the martial arts that you stole for eight years? And that's it? No fundamentals at all? You forced me Is that all you've got? You have to admit it, It's you that forced me It was you that forced me This is the martial arts that you stole for eight years? And that's it? No fundamentals at all? You forced me Is that all you've got? You have to admit it, It's you that forced me It was you that forced me Shi Ge Shi Mei Shi Mei Are you alright? I'm alright That's good then It's all my fault I didn't protect you I let you get hurt It's all my fault for not being proficient It's thanks to Shi Fu showing mercy Shi.. Shi Fu Shi Fu If this was just test, and that's all Why were you so heavy handed with Shi Mei? If I didn't push Lin Xuan with every move She wouldn't go all out Only by pushing her to the brink will she be carrying all the internal forces and only then can the valve be opened The main purpose of this test was to enlighten Lin Xuan So that was it Shi Fu, you didn't say so earlier It hurt me I worried in vain about a game Exactly, Shi Fu If you wanted to enlighten me why come down with such a heavy hand? I thought this time I'm going to die at Teacher's hands Otherwise how could your Shi Ge be forced to show his ability Showing real skill And you.. eight years of martial arts practice your Wu Gong isn't as good as your Shi Ge's stolen lessons You make me so disappointed I usually secretly teach you sword practise You pretend you don't know anything Wu Gong so strong, and you pretend not to understand it? Shi Mei Shi Ge hid it from you I was in the wrong But I really wanted to practice swords with you Shi Mei Don't be mad Xing Yun You're a Wu Gong.. Shi Ge.. Shi Fu, what's wrong with him? Shi Ge The inner breath is so disordered Shi Ge Shi Ge You two go back Shi Fu I'm sorry I shouldn't.. Stop Learning is your destiny If you dare use it for evil purposes Teacher will kill you personally Yes, Shi Fu Slow down, Shi Ge This person came towards the Longquan Sword Yet inadvertently disclosed Xing Yun secretly learned martial arts The disordered pulses All this in the end was it acting without thinking or intentionally arranged Could it be.. he really appeared Shi Mei Shi Mei Are you still mad? Open the door Shi Mei.. You're in the room and don't open the door for Shi Ge? Shi Mei Look at your pout Shi Ge's medicine basket can be hung up Rub it on Who values your medicine? Cheat That's what you have to watch out for Shi Mei Who do you think Shi Ge's stolen martial arts are for? Isn't it for protecting you? Tell me what if Shi Fu finds out why Shi Ge stole to learn? Right? Huh? It's all your fault Still fooling around? Come back you Be honest and explain When Shi Fu punished me Did you have a special feeling? Thought I was very funny, didn you? Not at all.. You.. You're laughing at me That's all the medicine I made for you You wiped it on me? You.. why are you doing this, Shi Ge? It's for your own good, isn't it Shi Mei? Don't you run, get away from me You Jie.. We brothers haven't been drunk in a long time If you were in my place ..would you agree with my decision? Since you're here come over and have a drink with Shi Fu Oh.. Shi Fu.. Sit down Oh.. How's your injury getting on? My injury is pretty much almost better You're both grown up If one day Teacher isn't around You must be sure to take good care of Xuan and must take good care of yourself I'm not against you going down the mountain as such I'm just worried you don't have the skills Jianghu is sinister I'm afraid of you provoking a disaster Shi Fu What's wrong with you? Did something happen? Shi Fu I swear to you I'm going to use my life to protect Little Shi Mei I won't let you worry Mm.. In that case I can rest easy With your current strength I believe you'll be able to protect Xuan thoroughly Alright It's not early now either and you have an injury Go back and get some rest Oh.. Then I'll ask to be excused Shi Fu You get some rest as well Maybe I'm overly concerned Perhaps this boy is more fortunate than I imagined Let's eat.. What are you looking at? There's nothing to see Shi Mei, I just thought Doctor Li's reputation for medicine is well deserved Look, you're more pretty than before Smooth talker Don't eat it, Shi Fu hasn't eaten yet It's fine, it's fine.. You go and tell Shi Fu to come and eat It's fine.. Are you going? Are you telling him? Shi Fu, come and eat! Shi Fu, come and eat! Shi Mei Come here, quick! Shi Ge.. What happened? What's wrong with Shi Fu? Shi Ge What happened here? Where's Shi Fu? You're both grown up If one day Teacher isn't around You must be sure to take good care of Xuan and must take good care of yourself I swear to you I'm going to use my life to protect Little Shi Mei I won't let you worry Something must have happened to Shi Fu Shi Ge, come and look Tibetan Soldiers Valley? Will Shi Fu be alright? Don't worry Shi Fu's Wu Gong is outstanding He's bound to be fine Besides, if they really wanted to harm Shi Fu They could just kill him directly Since they took him away it's more likely that Shi Fu isn't at risk for the time being Anyway this Tibetan Soldiers Valley must have an important relationship with Shi Fu Shi Ge What should we do? Go.. Go to the Tibetan Soldiers Valley to find Shi Fu Shi Ge We used to want to go down the mountain for a look Now we're going down I really feel some reluctance Shi Mei Finding Shi Fu is important When we find Shi Fu we'll be back here again Mm Let's go.. Mm Xuan Xing Yun Forgive Shi Fu for forcing you to leave in this way The future road is up to yourselves The good and bad in Jianghu is difficult to anticipate But at the moment, it's safer than being around me &lt;i&gt;Yuzhou City&lt;/i&gt; Here, look Kites.. So pretty Shi Ge, look quick.. Little tigers, little tigers Little tigers This little tiger's so cute We could buy on for Shi Fu, let him wear it like this So cute.. Over here, there's pretty fans Fans.. Look, how pretty Scent bags, scent bags.. Scent bags Young man, look at how pretty they are Buy one for your young lady You have a silver tongue May I ask the way to the Tibetan Soldiers Valley? Tibetan Soldiers Valley? I don't know Oh.. Let's go We'll look for it ourselves then Let's go Shi Ge.. Huh? I'm so hungry.. We've spent all our money Never mind the Tibetan Soldiers Valley We're not out of Yuzhou City yet and we'll starve to death Don't worry Shi Mei, Shi Ge's here I won't let you starve Mm What's going on here? Let's have a look.. Mm Yuzhou Drug King recruiting heroes Please apply to Drug King for more details Somebody's picture is underneath Shi Mei, weren't you hungry? Shi Ge will take you for a good meal Come on The Fang Family ancestors are kind to our Nian Family This Millennium Fire Fungus is the dowry to marry Miss Fang When it's time to meet the parents Come, come.. That's to say they're after Master Nian's Millennium Fire Fungus Fire Fungus? I think the other party clearly I reckon that thief is the lady thief in the nearby hills who wants to grab my son's body to take him back and pressure him into being a husband To tell you the truth My son is the number one beautiful man in Yuzhou That lady thief must have a crush on my son His casual and elegant bearing and good looks are highly esteemed Dad Dad.. Son Good boy In that case I don't know how Master Nian wants us to help Come, come, come.. Look at your figure Look at your appearance Although it's not as good as my son It can be considered as almost the same I don't know where the old man's beliefs come from Why not do this.. it's completely up to you.. pretend to be my son to meet the parents Draw out that evil thief, what do you think? No way Marriage is a major event in life How can you think of a substitution? Besides, my Shi Ge won't be able to marry another girl Mm.. I'm just asking him pretend to be my son and I'd never ill-treat him Not to mention I want to pay a heavy reward Are you being serious? Nasty.. I'm telling you Don't think because you have money I just believe having money can make the world go round This is business, I'll take it Shi Ge Alright.. This money is just a deposit After the event we'll settle the account together It's a deal That's it then Young Hero Li No regrets please Son, let's go.. So much money and it's just a deposit Never mind pretending to be a son This is worth being a grandson too I think you want to be a bridegroom Having fun, marrying a wife I... It's just that idiot kid's wife I'll just despise her Unless.. she looks as pretty as my Little Shi Mei Besides, just to find Shi Fu, we also need money Mm Look, have a look Young Lady, this Ruyi This was that year's Emperor's Ruyi The jade itself is already priceless It's rarer than rare It came out of the palace Look at these three jewels These are Chicken's Blood Gemstones It's beautiful It's very rare The things in the palace are not the same My God Shi Ge What do you think? Too good looking You're so elegant Do you want to walk down the street and see how many girls swoon? Shi Mei Now you know your Shi Ge's good looking Let me tell you You have to keep a tight watch Otherwise someday a lady bandit will snatch your Shi Ge away Snatched away you'd be less trouble Shi Mei, look at this Hey, Shi Mei You're still really mad? Shi Ge was joking with you Besides Shi Ge really can't think of any woman apart from Shi Mei in this world who could enter Shi Ge's discriminating eyes You.. ssshhh... There's so many people, keep your voice down You two, talent, beauty Makes me think you're a natural born couple You two, if today, you ensure the success of my son's wedding In the future, the wedding of both of you Just throw it in with my big fortune Then, thank you Master Nian Thank Master Nian Thank you Master Nian Shi Mei.. Mm? Aren't you in a hurry to get married? What nonsense Shi Mei I promise you When we've found Shi Fu and gone back to Jianlu I'll make sure he gets the old man to host our marriage Really? Have a guess You're playing me? Shi Mei, stop Don't fuss Doing business is important Young Hero Li Among everything in my dowry this is the most valuable item And hope Young Hero Li personally puts it into the hands of my not yet through the door daughter-in-law Remember, remember.. Open it, let's see what it is Master Nian, don't worry You can be at ease in the mansion, Good, good.. Miss, the messenger just came The Nian's meet the parents team is on the road bringing twelve boxes of dowry It's a big show Coming, coming.. Miss, I'll open the door Today you're being wronged a little Congratulations.. Have a drink Poorly entertained.. Lin Xuan The Fire Fungus Take it Shi Mei What's wrong? Shi Ge Can we not do this job? The minute I think about it, My heart's clogged up with panic Shi Mei We're taking people's money for disaster relief We already promised to help the Nian house We must help them to the end What's more Master Nian promised us later he'll give us a grand wedding When the time comes we'll certainly have the whole caboodle More grand than it is now Really? It must be Alright No holding hands No holding, no holding The bride's coming You.. No kissing people I know, my heart only has you Bridegroom, let's go, go.. Shi Mei, come over.. Congratulations.. Come on, come on Leave it to me, don't worry Get in.. Miss really is very lucky Master Nian's family is making a big effort for you the daughter-in-law It's also very important They picked dozens of big sturdy men to come and guarantee your safety Then who are you? To tell you the truth I was hired by them to help as well I wonder how old this little brother is this year Do you have a wife and children? If Little Brother doesn't mind I can introduce my cousin to you in the future That's not going to work I have my Shi Mei I promised her When this is over I'll go and ask my Shi Fu to marry us The two of us are two little innocents childhood sweethearts What's more I made a promise to her I want to take care of her for a lifetime I'll never abandon her That being said it's normal for a man to be polygamous If Little Brother agrees my cousin will be Little Brother's concubine That's not impossible I understand your kind intentions However, I'm a very narrow-minded person My heart already has my Little Shi Mei And other women? I definitely won't give them more than a glance But.. that Little Nian is astonishing I wonder what his future wife looks like Is she out of the ordinary too? If you want to live then don't make any moves It was only a joke What's so serious? Don't get excited Miss For your safety, that Master Nian already discussed it with your household I was sent here to draw out the thief Oh, yeah.. I almost forgot the most important thing Master Nian gave thousands of instructions that this is for me to give to the Lady Who's funeral is it? What's going on? Why has it stopped moving? I'll deal with this Our Nian household is having a happy event How dare you block the way? Clear off! Xuan Ming Jiao is working If obstructed can kill with lawful authority It's them The fish is finally on the hook Miss Wait for me in the sedan I'll be right back We heard the Yuzhou Drug King is having a wedding today It's them? As long as you agree to hand over the Fire Fungus Then we'll spare your lives Otherwise we'll turn your wedding into a funeral Shi Mei, don't be provoked Let me go I.. I have to get revenge for my Dad Shi Mei Little Sister Big Sister has killed countless people I don't know who your Dad is You! Shi Mei Xuan Ling, don't get entangled with this girl Taking the Fire Fungus is important Mm Chase! Stand still for me! Shi Mei As long as you obediently hand over the Fire Fungus We two siblings will be merciful and give you a way to live Little ability Big mouth To deal with you long-winded ghosts one Magic Square person is enough Magic Square? I really didn't know the depth of things So don't blame us two siblings for not giving the Magic Square face If you have the ability Come and get it What a useless bunch of people Shi Mei Calm down first We can't stand out in this crowd In my opinion the bride must have been switched Black and White Wu Chang killed my Dad I must retaliate with them and take revenge for my Dad Shi Mei Don't get excited Shi Ge will meet with them first Why is it you? I can't bear seeing such a beautiful girl getting hit by so many people What's your background kid? Announce your name Why do you want to be enemies with Xuan Ming Jiao? Little Master won't change his name, Li Xing Yun it is You two people besides bullying, plotting and poison, these disgusting tricks Do you have any other skills? This is contention between Xuan Ming Jiao and Magic Square What does it have to do with you? I was entrusted by someone and have to see it through to the end Today.. not only do I have to take back the Fire Fungus Even more I have to take your dog's lives Chase her Stand still Just relying on your broken sword you dare to provoke Xuan Ming Jiao's business Why are this little girl's eyes like Lu You Jie's that year Today.. I demand the lives of you two siblings to avenge the Wuli Pavilion Big Brother, do you think these two look like the two children Yang Shu Zi took away that year? So it's you two little dolls So many years without the whereabouts of Yang Shu Zi Did you come out of the door by yourselves? That year Yang Shu Zi was at Wuli Pavilion outside Yuzhou City He took them away with the Longquan Sword Could they have just been hiding around here? After you left Wuli Pavilion, where did you go? Where is Yang Shu Zi now? Xuan Ling, watch out! Xuan Ling Xuan Ling Big Brother, my current shape is no advantage to us It's better that we retreat Go back and report to Meng Po for further advice Xuan Ling, let's go Shi Ge Are you alright? What's wrong? Corpse poison Shi Mei Don't be scared Shi Ge for a short time ..won't die yet Shi Ge Shi Ge, you wake up Shi Ge, you wake up Don't abandon me to be alone Shi Ge Li Xing Yun Be careful Shi Ge Shi Ge, wake up Shi Ge Is he alright? You can go out What should I do about this? What shall I do? What can be done? I can't save Shi Ge I.. we still have to go back to Jianlu Why am I so useless? Shi Ge Shi Ge, wake up Tell me quickly How can I save you? Shi Mei Sticky rice.. Sticky rice? Two catties of sticky rice ..can dissolve this poison I'll go and find it Wait for me Slowly Xuan Ling Big Brother, you're wasting your internal force Abominable.. he caused your internal injury to relapse I won't let that stinking kid get away with it To dissolve the Thousand Corpse Palm Poison Apart from the Master of Tong Wen Guan only sticky rice can dissolve it As long as we lay down a dragnet I'm not afraid we can't catch them Men! Subordinate's here Tell Meng Po the Fire Fungus hasn't been obtained However.. we found the whereabouts of Yang Shu Zi's apprentice With this we can find out information about Subordinate obeys In addition keep a close watch on Yuzhou City's Big Rice Shop Be sure to find Yang Shu Zi's apprentice for me Excuse me, where is there a rice shop near here? Go straight on, it's at the second street corner Thank you What the hell? What shall I do? Xuan Ming Jiao's men are everywhere My Shi Ge is waiting to be saved Congratulations.. Master Nian Master Nian Master Nian Master Nian Master Nian Miss, you look unfamiliar Come with me for a drink Get off me Master Nian Master Nian, I want to talk to you Miss Lu Come here, come here.. You're a great benefactor Today without the help of you two My family's happy event.. wouldn't have happened.. You're too kind, the Fire Fungus was lost for you To be honest, I've come to ask for your help The Fire Fungus is no doubt important But compared to my son and daughter couple That doesn't count for anything I still have to honour my promise Come here, give Miss Lu a thousand gold pieces You've got the wrong idea I don't want money I want two catties of sticky rice to save someone Hah? Excuse me.. excuse me Who did you land on? Are you blind or something? Miss.. ..really.. very sorry.. A little careless.. ..just.. crashed on you.. I really am.. quite a ladies man.. My rice! Let me pick this up for you.. ..just pick it up.. Shi Mei Did you buy the sticky rice? Hand over the Fire Fungus Isn't the Fire Fungus with you? Will you get your hands off, you No.. no.. What the hell do you think is happening? No.. if you don't accept me, I'm not getting up What's going on? It looks like a couple had a fight Rubbish, I've been stood here for ages I watched very carefully It's a proposal Yo.. he's sincere enough That is, he's been kneeling for most of the day That young guy kept going.. promise me.. promise me.. The girl just kept shaking her head vigorously I won't promise.. Also, on this main street saying such a thing as that's my little wifey I was so embarrassed Alright, alright, don't make it worse I don't even know him My Lady.. Be together.. Be together.. Stinky drunkard What the hell do you want? Didn't I say it? I made your rice all winey I feel particularly sorry I.. just want to treat you to a meal Compensation isn't it? I'm telling you There's a sick man in my house I haven't got time to bother about you Go where you go to cool off Sick man? It so happens that Young Master is a bit of a doctor I'll have a look for you, go.. Oi.. You make fun of this girl again I'll slap your big ears to death That young guy must be really infatuated Be together.. Be together.. Turn round No looking back Be good Mm.. Awesome My God.. If you don't tell me I'm going to remove your arm Even if you dump me in eight pieces I still won't tell you I'll tell you, it's fine But, you have to do me a favour first What favour? Help me dissolve the poison Thousand Corpse Poison Palm You think Black and White Wu Chang's is so easy to dissolve? I know with your skill you can't dissolve the poison either But.. I just need you to help me force the poison If you dare play any tricks I won't let you see the Sun tomorrow The man has damage in multiple meridians There's internal disturbance Such a serious internal injury He can actually hold on for so long I can't even identify his skill What on earth? Focus your attention Don't think about what is or isn't Otherwise, the whereabouts of the Less of the nonsense Listen up They just hid in here Even if you turn this Inn upside down You have to find them for me Right now we're in the middle of a poison dissipation with internal force Once the Xuan Ming Jiao men break in one of us can't escape So what do you want to do? You just need to distract the Xuan Ming Jiao men in order to keep the Fire Fungus safe Even if they catch you the thing they want isn't in your hands They're not going to take you Come back and get the Fire Fungus You'd best not play any tricks You can only trust me At this moment it's the only foolproof way Chase her There's so many of you You can't even catch two petty thieves You're simply useless Subordinate's incapable Please Wu Chang show mercy Just lift the lid off Yuzhou City and get those two caught for me! Scram! Big Brother Why are you so mad about this little bandit? Now the whole horizon in Yuzhou I don't expect they can escape the palm of our hands As soon as we grab them, they lead us That can be described as spectacular In due course we two siblings will rise directly What's more those two little things who dared to hurt you This breath will be sure to come out My Lady.. My Lady.. My Lady.. Are you shy, My Lady? My Lady.. You.. I'll protect you, My Lady Stand still You two Why do you wanna find my My Lady? Little whelp Looking for death? Help! Kill him! Help! Stand still Wotcha looking at? Shi Ge Shi Ge Shi Ge, you wake up Shi Ge This is the one you mentioned? You have to save him If anything happens to him I won't let you go Don't fret Shove over Ooh, Corpse Poison? You did indeed provoke the Xuan Ming Jiao people But this kid's smart ..got the Corpse Poison forced to the Shangyang point This can delay his Corpse Poison attack He's a diamond in the rough You.. what are you going to do? Get off me This sword is a good sword Pity it's an incomplete sword What do you want to treat it? Just use it to treat him How can a sword treat him? To save people, first save the life Your Shi Ge's hand can't stay You can't You dare touch my Shi Ge Be careful, I'll cut your head off Quite aggressive But, I like it Since My Lady says it Then I'll just change methods to treat the patient It really has to be this way? Yep If you don't speed it up he could just die Hurry up That's a good girl Shi Ge My Lady.. Black and White Wu Chang sent a message They discovered Yang Shu Zi's Oh? Black and White Wu Chang did well If we can catch Yang Shu Zi's two apprentices Then we can track down Longquan Sword is a matter of great importance According to subordinate's opinion Black and White Wu Chang's repair is still shallow Those two siblings can't be relied on completely This matter must be on the big star sitting in Yanjun in order to be foolproof Fire and Water Pan Guan In your opinions Which one of the Yanjun faction Zhaosheng Yanjun's Dragon Palm has already been deified He is the most appropriate to go Black and White Wu Chang can fully assist Zhaosheng Yanjun When the time comes the Fire Fungus and Yang Shu Zi's apprentices Not one can be let go Then comply with Water Pan Guan's request Subordinate calls on Zhaosheng Yanjun Black and White Wu Chang made a mistake The Fire Fungus was snatched by the Magic Square But in Yuzhou City they discovered Meng Po has ordered Please go to Yuzhou City to Black and White Wu Chang This pair are dispensable useless people To actually be able to find the Longquan Sword's whereabouts really was going by dog shit luck Those siblings just wanted to get credit Mister Pan Guan is afraid they can't be trusted with this task for fear of mistakes So he specifically recommended Yanjun to Meng Po Please come out of the mountains Alright I'll leave for Yuzhou City immediately You're dismissed Yes Yanjun, look out! I can't I already have my Shi Mei I can't have any other women You and your Shi Mei it's just brother and sister love It's just habit It doesn't mean anything Let me teach you what love is between a man and a woman Shi Ge Shi Ge Shi Ge stop hitting him Come off Shi Ge, listen to me, come off Don't stop me, who is he? He's the pervert I met on the way to buy sticky rice Pervert? Shi Mei He drank a lot yesterday He wouldn't have done anything unnatural to you? No..! He's a man who's a very bad drinker Drinks wine and talks crazy words, and hung onto me and wouldn't let go If it wasn't for him saying he could treat your illness I wouldn't have brought him home You're talking about me? How come I don't remember any of that? Him? He saved me? Yes.. Gently Sorry.. Shi Ge On the road coming back I ran into some Xuan Ming Jiao men And it was him that resolved me being surrounded Alright Then thank you very much this dear friend This dear friend doesn't have to be polite It was just a very slight effort Moreover, when I arrived This dear friend's Corpse Poison If you wanted to recover completely it was just a matter of time Reporting Wu Chang The previous despatch sent to search for Li Xing Yun all fell into Magic Square's ruse What? What a useless bunch Greetings Zhaosheng Yanjun I didn't know Yanjun had reached Yuzhou City Please forgive subordinate for the missing welcome You.. Tell me what you just said The.. the previous despatch sent to search for Li Xing Yun all fell into Magic Square's ruse and.. and were broken down one by one Useless rubbish What's the use of Xuan Ming Jiao feeding you two siblings? As things stand Not only is the Fire Fungus not in your hands You couldn't even catch Yang Shu Zi's apprentice You're the same, useless rubbish If I wasn't thinking about Meng Po's face by now the two of you siblings would be dead Before it was our two siblings carelessness and we hope Yanjun will give us another chance Alright Seeing as I'm giving you two a hand for Meng Po's sake I'll give you another chance Waiter.. Coming.. Many thanks this dear friend for rescuing my Shi Mei It was nothing, Brother Li is too kind I don't get it When you're drunk, you're a lecherous loafer Normally you're a cultured and refined gentleman Why do you drink so much in broad daylight? Miss wouldn't know, usually Yesterday I drank to excess in a short time Actually it's a total blackout I'm really embarrassed By the way I still don't know what you're called I think your Wu Gong is good I wonder which school it is Little brother's surname is Zhang first name Zi Fan As for the Wu Gong it's just a defensive skill It's not worth mentioning Oh.. Here Shi Mei Eat this one Thank you I wonder where you two siblings are going Maybe we're going the same way? We two siblings on this trip are going to the It's just that now we don't know where to go The Tibetan Soldiers Valley? We are going the same way Why don't we go as travelling companions? I'lI point out the direction for you Yeah? This table is full of chicken duck and fish But why isn't there any wine? It's rare to meet friends to travel with We should have a drink Brother You're not fully recovered yet, you can't drink Shi Mei, I'll just drink a little It's not important, get the wine Don't neglect my saviour Get going Go.. Brother Fan, eat Waiter! Yeah, coming.. Your change, put it away What's the matter, Miss? Get me a pot of wine There you go Your wine When that guy Zhang Zi Fan drinks, I don't want to be the innocent caught up in it again Waiter, come here Give them this wine for me Tell them I've gone back to the room to rest Righto By the way Prepare a tub of hot water for me Will do Think of the beginning.. ..I'm on the mountain.. ..my Shi Fu wasn't willing to teach me Wu Gong.. He only taught my Shi Mei.. Nice wine.. He made me memorise.. 'Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold' ..an' also.. Wine is good stuff.. Pity there's no pretty companions.. Why are you going? I'm going.. ..to the conveniences.. Wait for me to come back Little ladies.. No wine? No wine.. Get wine.. My Lady.. Brother Zhang.. Sssssh... Drink's gone.. Come here.. Come here.. Nice thing.. nice thing.. here, look.. What do you think? Nice.. Zhang Zi Fan! Masters Wu Chang The brother and sister you're looking for are staying in our Tavern But.. apart from the two travelling together there's also a young white haired man Thank you Masters Wu Chang That white haired man must be the one who rescued Lu Lin Xuan and we don't know what kind of ability he has Big Brother Do we really have to obey Jiang Zhao Yi? Jiang Zhao Yi is one of the Five Big Yanjun of Xuan Ming Jiao Whether it's Wu Gong or status neither of us two siblings can compare The only way now must be to go step by step It's all because I was injured and tired Big Brother Otherwise we would have caught Li Xing Yun earlier and it's unlikely the two of us and be exploited by Jiang Zhao Yi This is all temporary What's the matter with you? Hey.. Why don't you talk? Shi Ge What's the matter with him? Was it drinking a lot and doing immoral things again? This white hair brought it all on himself If it wasn't for him, I.. Ah.. You two just have a bit to drink and it ends in a fight like this? Did I want to hit him? I saw him He was up to no good, I.. I.. Hey.. Don't raise your hands.. From the beginning.. he just.. He just harboured evil designs.. In my opinion he deliberately approached you Shi Ge, don't be ridiculous Me and him just.. just got acquainted on the street He shouldn't have.. Eh.. what exactly happened? Why are you so angry? Me? You ask him yourself Shi Ge.. Zhang Zi Fan What the hell happened? I blacked out again Sister Ji's in a bad temper Now the Fire fungus has fallen into the hands of thieves You coincidentally failed again Nu Di sent me to Yuzhou to take it What, you feel aggrieved? Nu Di sent you? Why didn't I know? You wouldn't want to take the Fire Fungus I advise Big Sister not to be too reckless So as to avoid a bad end in front of Nu Di Nine Days Sanji's work doesn't revolve around your slave's talkative mouth yet Don't rely on Nu Di's love for you Your position is unclear Tell me.. Where the hell is that kid who's hiding the Fire Fungus? Why should I tell you? Stinking brat Actually dares bully Lin Xuan right in front of me He's just sick of living I'm pissed right off! Lin Xuan as well.. Who did you find to bring back? Woman's heart.. Seabed needle.. If you want to guess You can't guess It looks like my sister is thinking about that kid I can warn you about the Magic Square's rules You know them too If Nu Di found out about this.. Greetings Sanskrit Sanji Subordinate found the thief who stole the Fire Fungus in front of the Million Flower Building It really has come without effort I'm going to meet him in person To see what man it is exactly that can move our Sister Ji's heart Can't guess? Then don't guess The other end of the Earth where there's no grass What are you going to do? What do you want? This.. what is this place? Let's go, let's go.. Don't drag me.. I'm not going in Get off me You guys.. Quickly Young Master.. Don't be shy Don't touch me I can't.. I still have Shi Mei Don't go.. The Queen of Flowers is coming out Truly beautiful Young Master, please stay She's calling you, calling you Look Master How was the service? Good.. You take care Plenty of money Quickly, inform Miss Ji These Million Flower girls, each one is more beautiful Is that so? Master, is this your first time It is.. The Million Flower Building girls are our best here I'll go in for a look Master What taste do you like? You girls come over.. I'll make arrangements for you What do you think? Not bad at all.. Really? Stop! What do you want? What are you getting so close to me for? One saw this Young Knight and was attracted by the Young Knight's handsomeness If one has caused some offence, Naturally I'm handsome, suave and romantic That's something that is obvious to all But as for some Queen of Flowers I can't enjoy it Better leave it for everyone else to have fun I have something to do, I'll say farewell Young Knight stay Why are you so anxious to leave? I'd like to invite the Young Knight Don't get touchy feely with me I already have a sweetheart Besides, people here have plenty of high regard for you You might as well find someone else Out of my way.. Miss Ji, Miss Ji.. Lady thief?