Chukotka is an unlikely center for a For one, it's hardly the "center" of anything. Its city and sits just below the Arctic Circle. A road connecting it to the rest of Siberia is the only way out is this airport, accessible Nor is there much "civilization" to be the region's entire population would Life here moves pretty slowly. When two brave Australian tourists And yet tiny, remote Anadyr, of all places, was There, in a staged meeting with local residents, the president celebrated its rising number a model for the rest of the country, So, what "rising number," exactly, was increase of 157 between 2010 ...Not quite the shining success story Still, he wasn't wrong. An in fact -- is far more than most places can claim. Between 2010 and 17, over 70% of And while Chukotka's fertility rate of it's among the highest in Russia, where In the 1980s, the Soviet Union had one of the peaked at nearly 149 million, making it But after its collapse in '91, its birth more Russians have died than been born for Russia was first overtaken by Pakistan, by the end of this century, it's expected shrinking to three and a half times Needless to say, these are troubling signs for And it gets worse. Because the Soviet Union collapsed 33 years ago, 33 years later, Russia is missing a whole lot of As a result, the country has a massive shortage of labor -- especially of the blue-collar and A mere 15% of all workers are under 30 years old and the unemployment rate has now ...Not to mention, this dwindling 20-35-year-old group is the exact one you'd need, Now, Russia is not alone. Far from it. China's birth rate, famously, fell much faster. Korea's is much worse. Families across the developed world are getting smaller and much of Europe Take Italy, for instance. As you can see, both it and Russia saw the same roughly 50% Likewise, both will experience the same economic populations. More retirees withdrawing pensions left supporting a larger number of older landscapers to landscape, and caregivers Russia may be in trouble, you might or Japan, or Britain. "Nothing to see here." But... there's a critical difference. the causes couldn't be more different. In Italy, like most countries, these unfortunate because fewer teenagers were getting pregnant. opportunities, and were increasingly free to An economic defeat, but a human victory. Whereas, in Russia, this drop was less a mass unemployment, and a general An economic and human failure. Meanwhile, Italians were also living longer, the standard of living was rising, Thus, even while the country as you can see, remained more or less constant. The same cannot be said of Russia. And this is There, deaths surged at the exact moment birth "Russian Cross." And this was not just a temporary There's no silver lining to be found nation being squeezed simultaneously from two Consider, for a moment, the scale of this tragedy. during the thirty years when HIV treatment, ICUs, As the economist Nicholas Eberstadt once observed, more births than deaths. Over the next sixteen These are war-like casualties in peacetime. So, what exactly caused all these deaths? One clue is that heart-related fatalities -- the Another is that -- whatever the cause -- it All signs, in other words, point to alcohol. The problem is not simply one of quantity. Though it certainly doesn't help that in almost double what the World Health The problem, above all, is what The French sip wine, the British vodka. Some stereotypes, apparently, are true. Not only do Russians get more but a deeply embedded culture of social During Soviet times, vodka was sold with once, usually in groups, and often in uncontrolled This is an extremely lethal combination. So much so that every Russian male one way or another, thanks to alcohol. The numbers on screen, bear but note how Russia's number is Researchers estimate that between 1990 and 2001, over half of all adult male deaths On top of this, about 30% of all crimes and 72% of all murders in 2017 were related to These are staggering numbers, world's most highly educated countries, Unsurprisingly, then, the is just 68 years -- closer to Haiti than Switzerland, or Macau will live So, why does the government accept even the most corrupt, authoritarian, this for the epidemic it is, Well, as it turns out, serious During Soviet times, authorities estimated on vodka alone. And no fewer than 75% of In response, Gorbachev -- a non-drinker himself or since. Prices were increased, manufacturing Entire vineyards were even destroyed by the state. It worked. Almost immediately, consumption fell by vodka to beer. In less than 3 years, the male life There was just one problem: or, rather, 28 lost in tax revenue, which, as Mark Schrad was roughly equivalent to Russia's total The Soviet Union, at the time, truly ran on vodka -- the tax revenue from So, left with no other choice, Gorbachev rolled back the campaign in But it was too late. To fund the deficit, the the state-run economy, which led to shortages, It would be too simplistic to say the Soviet Union. But experts generally agree that Then, just when you thought things After 1991, alcohol suddenly became extremely the floodgates were opened after exact moment Russians were at their most hopeless. If they drank profusely before, Consumption soared as they made Over two decades later, Putin's political this time with more modest reforms -- mandating if you can believe it, reclassifying beer as But, once again, during its economic downturn in many of these measures were Russians turned to all manner of far The lesson? Don't touch alcohol restrictions they're wildly unpopular, and they don't work. During the Great Recession, Russia's finance minister removed any doubt about saying the best thing ordinary citizens And one final cherry on top: a popular Putin -- who ironically, is Now, Russia almost certainly stands more to lose from encouraging alcohol consumption As early as 2006, Putin declared the demographic Two decades later, he continues to say similar And this isn't just empty rhetoric. The country's growth by giving new families a one-time Still, these are relatively frankly, likely not all that effective. Whenever this demographic goal conflicts with Year after year, Putin has that aggravate the problem Take healthcare, for example. In a recent report, Russia ranked last out Hospitals are so dirty, corruption so rampant, and especially those outside of major At no time was this more on display Distrustful of the government, a smaller share of its population is fully As a result, as many as 1 million Russians may estimates. If true, this would make it one of Rather than fund its outdated hospitals, the Estimates of Russian casualties from its 500,000 -- in either case, a massive chunk of Not to mention: countless families have fled the including 200,000 in the first Keep in mind that only 29% of the population -- the in other words, are disproportionately young, wealthy, well-educated, and The loss of 100,000 software engineers, on its own, will cause chaos in Russia's Add all this up -- alcohol use, declining the pandemic, war, and the subsequent It's running out of people. In 2020 and 2021, its population declined by over Again, none of this was unforeseeable, which only makes the Russian government's Perhaps it should have taken the "Understanding which culminates in a capstone Brilliant makes learning things AI, and math fun with interactive Say you want to learn data analysis -- a A typical online course might a digital textbook with lessons on "density addition rule." If you're lucky, you might Brilliant, on the other hand, guides with beautifully made and engaging real projects and challenges that teach you how like how to use what you've learned to build Because each lesson is broken down into daily habit. Because you're learning from and transferable problem-solving skills and not to actually remember what you learn when what Brilliant has courses on how Large how to program in Python, calculate To check out Brilliant completely free now or in the description below -- Doing so will also get you 20% off Go, pick what interests you