[somber blues] [Peter] Good morning guys, Today we have quite an adventure. Going south through the heart Known as the most Southern place on earth. Also known as Arguably the poorest region So the goal is to get out meet the locals, ask the questions, learn a thing or two Let's do this. somber blues [Peter] Let's go check out Alligator. [music fades] [Peter] How you doing, sir? Is this Downtown Alligator? -[man] This the whole Alligator. -The guy that used to own and Mr. Brem Bremly, they dead and gone That's why -Okay. Do you like it here? -Uh, let me be honest with you, trying to get in your business but other than that, it's a nice goin' town. You got a few noses around here trying to dip their noses -Oh, small town stuff? Everyone -Yeah, sometimes you might have to -That's how you defeat alligators too, That's what I heard. -No, take my advice. Do 'em like I do em. I stay the hell away from them. -[Peter laughs] They don't mess with me -Yeah, mutual respect. Take care, sir. [Peter] Good alligator advice So this is it. I'm guessing that's some government Looks like it at least. And you've had a lot of people At one time there was Well, far back, slave labor And then machinery took over. So there was the great migration up to And so a lot of people left this region. Got the post office here. [locked door clicks] Well this one's locked. &quot;Lobby hours 7:15 to 9:15.&quot; Let's talk to this guy. Seems like a local. [Peter] What was Alligator before? [man] Farming community, at one time You can still... the current one's -Oh, cotton gins? And the oldest one was sitting out there. -Okay. -There was another one that sit back here -So when did that dry up? -Um... Probably about the '80s. There was just tenant houses I mean every road you'd go out -Oh, really? -All this innovation on farming -Okay, so just way less jobs? -Gotcha. One man farm a thousand acres now -So in the '70s and '80s -Oh, yeah. -How much were they getting paid Like minimum wage job or... -It had to be early '70s. Now the cotton pickers and cotton choppers did not make minimum wage. How they got by that, -Straw boss, what's that? -That's the leader. And they would pay him so much and then he would hire and pay 'em out of his pocket. That's how they got by with it, you know? -Okay, straw boss would pay the workers -He'd pocket the rest? -Something like that? -Wow, interesting. -But it just... I don't know, this was a whole line of buildings. Had this little gap in it. -Okay. -There were stores in every one of 'em. Uh... -This store here on the end... -Man died in January of last year. -Okay. -And they've recently shut it down. -What was that, like a general store? Yeah, they did cooking, -Okay. -Cold drinks. You know, all the farmers -Are you a farmer? -Yeah. -You better be in this area, There's no factories or nothing here. -So you still have work though? -Good for you. -But there was... ...six convenience stores here -Just all along this row? -Right. This was an office building here Chinaman had a store and then there was-- -Chinaman? -Chinese guy? -Out here? Then there was a Jewish guy had a store. Then there was a Black guy had a store. -Okay. -You guys get along pretty well out here? We don't have no problem, -You have police out here? Well we can call the county -[Peter] That's the mayor? -[Peter] Tommy, you're the mayor here? -Okay, what's going on in Alligator? I'm trying to keep the peace because we just had Gator's Grocery and Mary Ann Grocery closed. -This one right over here? -A small store like this shutting down -Yes, it's called a convenience store Now they have to drive... It's hard on 'em, you know what I mean? -Where do you go for groceries? -Well we go to Clarksdale or Cleveland. -Clarksdale is what, 20 miles? -13 miles. Trying to get a Dollar General -You guys want the Dollar General? -Right, we want it. They're all over Appalachia, I don't understand, -You know what I mean? -Let's tell the general manager we need to get them here, -Yeah, we want to get them here. -I actually spoke to them already Only thing they say, -Keep at it. -[chuckling] Yeah. They want $5,000 for that. -For this little lot right here? -You think it's gonna happen? -Never, not in my lifetime. -What price would sell that today? $2,000? -Yeah, I would say. I can tell you one thing, what's going on and the situation we in because more in the smaller towns it's not being recognized, you know? If you had a war, what you think The big cities. These small things, you gonna waste -So you're thinking big global conflict? -And you wanna be in the small towns? -Okay, have you always felt like that -Um... It made me think like that Everything is very touchy. -You guys feel that -Yes, we do. -It's like the country -A lot of us get prepared for it -You know, with power outages. -Going out and getting your own food. -No, if things got really bad, I think are much better off. The cities will just be violence. -City would be chaos. -All you need is the grid to go down -Yeah, exactly. -Killing each other for food. -Here, you wouldn't have to I think. -Will you guys let me in, -[laughing] We're more than happy for you. If it gets really bad I'm in. -Yeah man, I'm always welcoming -We are trying to grow. We are not just stabilized, In order to grow Businesses bring people in -So you need some businesses -Exactly. -Dollar General, -We need Dollar General. -Good stuff, mayor. Thank you. That was cool, and we're literally From my short time in this part People are very open. No BS. And they have pride and stores shutting down... Like the mayor said, they're really trying It's crazy, just a business or two can It is a bit sad I gotta say A shutdown gas station is a sad sight. It's just you can see less money in the region But let's go in deeper, [somber blues] [Peter] We have the Shelby train station, And it looks like the downtown. One business with new paint [Peter] What's going on in Shelby? -Man, nothing. -You guys grow up here? -Yeah, we all from Shelby. -Okay, so what was it like 20 years ago? -[man 1] Shelby was nice 20 years ago. -[Peter] It was pumping? [Peter] What was going on? -All this here, -Packed with people? -'Cause you got nice old buildings, -It was. -This was a business -What happened, the work ran out? -Shelby [unclear] closed, They were making parts -Okay, so the parts factory shut down. -Right. -And the gin. -And the what? -Cotton gin shut down. -Cotton gin? Was that good work ever, -Yeah, it was. -It was 'cause it kept community going. So what are people doing now for work? -Man, whatever they can do, Like I said, whatever they can do. -Okay. -Plumbing. -So you guys need more industry -Right. [Peter] You got a big birthday party -No her mother passed. [woman giggling softly] Ma'am, I can put a seat down. -If that don't pop, I'm good. -You're gonna pop those There we go. [balloons squeaking] [Peter] This poor lady and there's, I guess, a party for her You want me to try closing this? -If I pop one is that okay? [door slams] [woman] Oh, it didn't! -Thank you. [Peter] So we're gonna help this woman but that is rough. Shows you how unpredictable life is. Many of you have been through that. And for this lady getting ready and then she passes. So that is rough. Yeah, from what those guys said seems like the jobs took off outta town. See this is so much of America, Where the jobs have taken off. Some people follow them, and others don't. Some industry needs to come in but then how do you get people and optimistic on life That's really the trick I think Is how do you change some of these cycles? Because it seems like it's expanding I wasn't around in the '50s those rural areas were more thriving. [Peter] You left here when you were 15? -Milwaukee, Wisconsin. -Okay, why'd you come back? -Okay. I'm glad I did come back 'cause I got time to spend, -That's important. -When my father passed, -Really? I got on a plane, he went into seizures. I got on a plane, flew across the country and saw him like the minute... He died in my arms. In seizures and it was... You know, I wouldn't rather have it So for you to come back here and -So how old was he? -He was... What was he? 71 I believe. -Okay, that's good, he made it to 70. -'Cause in the Bible and I learnt that when my mom passed. You know, they was just giving me encouraging words and stuff. -She made it to 80? -You think the people are nicer, than up in the Midwest there? -They cool up there too. They just don't wave as much. -Right. -Down here you gotta wave They wave five times at the same person. So yeah. -So in Shelby, most people get out? Is that the story? -Well, I don't want to say get out or you know, But you go up to Cordova, Milwaukee, everything there. So you know... -You liked it up there? -Yeah I did. So I'm thinking where I'mma move to next -Where do you think? -I don't know. -You can go anywhere, huh? [somber blues] [Peter] Here we have 2,340 miles long. Starting up in Minnesota. Ending all the way down in Louisiana, America's greatest waterway. The Missouri, comes in around St. Louis. But these inter-continental waterways are what pushed These barges up and down. Looks like we have a tourist boat here, These towns vary quite drastically. This is Rosedale which looks quite good. Coming into this town the homes look nice. The further in we've gone it actually Which is interesting. Okay, so we came through but it definitely had a different look So usually when things look this run down In this whole drive today I've felt like zero edginess going into the gas stations Oh, this is so cool. &quot;American Indians began building The Winterville Society Many chiefdoms dissolved in the mid-1500s when Hernando de Soto's expedition The Native population had no immunity and many of the people died. Those who survived regrouped such as the Chocktaws, That's so cool. So they had their ceremonies up here. I never thought We have some more mountains over there. &quot;A place of honor, lived in structures Temples and other structures also stood [silence] -How you doing, sir? No gas, huh? You guys are open though? -No, huh-uh. We're remodeling. -Okay, gotcha. One new building here in town Then you have the downtown. Let's check it out. You can see some nice old buildings. At one time was thriving. People up and down the streets. All these store fronts There's some signs of life though. We got that new bank there. Let's talk to these guys. -Can I ask you a question? -How are things? What's going on -Doing a lot of restoration actually. -Absolutely, Hotel 27, it's a non-profit that actually gives back to the community It's through Greater Greenville -Cool, so Greenville -Absolutely, coming up. Yes sir. This is actually a building -That's good to hear. So these have been vacant -Quite a while. -Wow. You guys from here? -Yes sir, born and raised here. -Okay. -Married a Delta girl, what are -Oh, that's tricky, man. -There's a lot to that. -Is that a complicated question? -She goes to work and comes home, -Yeah, you can guarantee those things. That's a Greenville girl there. -Delta girls know what they're doing? -Cornbread? -You love the cornbread? -I had good cornbread yesterday. -As you go up more, maybe two blocks, Democratic Times We demoed a building for that, as well as there is and we actually restored that, -Oh, cool. -So you guys are in construction? -Absolutely, the whole block. Yeah, we're in maintenance, -So are there a lot of jobs -No sir. -Well there's gonna be a lot more That's the idea. -So the goal is to get people to move in? -Absolutely, Not just the buildings, yeah. To have more life back in. -Okay, so you're a big believer My wife saw this block in the '80s in the same lifetime -So in the '80s it was happening? -Thriving. Were you here, sir, in the '80s? -I was born, I'm 52 years old, So the whole street right here and grocery stores Nice. Man, they tore everything up and now -What closed everything down? Was it cotton leaving or what was it? -I guess it's the jobs. -The jobs left? -Did you have some big industry here? -Like some good jobs in town? -It's hard to get a job now. -Ain't nothing going on. -Me and my wife moved here and I struggled for a year This company found me, you know? Just literally from off the street to having My wife works for the company at Hotel 27. She's actually heading into work at 3:00. Her name's Carrie, if you swing through there. [Peter] Very interesting. So there were Italian immigrants -Yes, there were Spanish that came here and built this town. A lot of the architecture you see on Main -The marble on things. -That explains why it's so beautiful, -Yes, so we want to restore that grandeur, There was a lot of city pride here -It was firing -Yes. -Then it went off the cliff? -And now it's coming back? -What was it that hurt the economy What happened here? -A lot of it was there was Like the mayor, the city officials, and they were not doing They weren't keeping up It was a bad time for Greenville Now me growing up here here on our levy there used to be -Okay. -And right around the end of the '90s -Okay, so the jobs went away? -Jobs just went away and this area, it just started dying, and dying. All the shopping it used to have. It used to be a Mecca, You could go right here You could park, There's all the local businesses, -Was there any industry in town that left? -We did the Uncle Ben's rice factory here. -That shut down and they're using -Okay. So you think the secret sauce is -Yes, and that is part of the initiative with restoring is we have more businesses on the streets that's gonna equal to more jobs -That's cool, Carrie. You're fired up on your town, nice. -I am, I moved away for about 15 years. My dad's family So we lived in Brookhaven for a while I just felt a draw to come home I was looking around on the internet. What's shakin' up in town? What's new? And I saw this hotel 'cause it has our mission statement we're Mississippi's only non-profit hotel. All our proceeds go back into to help fund these things. -Who's in charge of this? -The Greater Greenville Foundation -We're owned by that foundation. -They have their main office -So there are a lot of initiatives -Good to hear. A lot of people here are really gung ho -What's the going price for a home? You know, average home, roughly. -It's so hit or miss here 'cause that is run down and stuff. You might could get just -$50,000, $60,000? Okay. -But you're gonna be putting 'cause the area's not as nice where they have these rows Those on the high end So it's just you have and we're just trying to make Where we can have We'd like to see families It seems to be the best -When you have-- -When everybody is doing well. We don't have a lower economic crowd The neighborhoods are bad. -Coming from the north side -That's how I came into town. -So that's the rundown part of town? We just want to... We wanna get it back going. We want it to look good again. Yeah, Greenville is definitely split and it's good to see that energy They're trying and there is but it needs to be filled that create jobs. That pay enough so people where they're not worried about and they can And how you do that, I don't know. You can see it all over the United States. All over &quot;flyover country&quot;. I say that with the air quotes has some of the coolest people. So it's tough to see in this country. You know, places like Greenville and when the jobs go, then everyone's life sort of deteriorates, and yeah, you can live off A lot of people have disability. A lot of people have disability and some really need it. They have an honest disability and if you grow up those are your role models. That's what you see and you continue on the trend. I think it's really hard Right? 'Cause that's all you know or anyone showing you any differently. So as a country that seems to be one of our big problems. Is... Yeah, there's just a lack of... hope There's a lack of jobs. Most people just want to go to work, feed their family, and get on through life. With that said, There's middle class out here. It's not easy to explain or show Everywhere's complicated. Every situation or topic is complicated. There's not one simple answer [somber blues] &quot;Belmont Plantation, one of in the Mississippi Delta Federal troops plundered it in 1863.&quot; And for those that don't know this architectural style came after Very famous down here in the South. Long driveways, big trees, archways, Neoclassical designs. So not that long ago. You had your master plantation here. The landholder, the wealthy white family, picking the cotton. So it's a bed and breakfast now? -It's a bed and breakfast. It's a 9,000 square foot house. It has an apothecary building out back and then the smokehouse -That's cool. How much a night? -$165 with breakfast the next morning and a tour of the place. The guy that owns it, -Okay. -Oh, that's cool. All right, have a good one. -Thank you. -There we go. Turned into bed and breakfast. Quickly traveling through, it's hard to understand between Whites and Blacks. I mean from my limited time I feel... I feel very safe being Everyone's been cool to me. There's a lot of interracial couples, All I can say is I'm glad it's not 1853 and we're living in Forced labor. I think most of us are glad about that. So the country has progressed very far from what we came from and I think as Americans We don't give ourselves credit Especially in these times and there's way more work to be done. Every country can improve, But we've gone And so it's something to keep in mind even when you're in I mean not long ago, really it wasn't, there were slaves That's crazy. And that's no longer. All right guys, It's part of a greater Deep South series Alabama and Mississippi for the most part. I know the Deep South Which will be down the road in videos but for now, Alabama, Mississippi. Part of the country and it's eye-opening, and excellent travel. Great people today I have a separate platform I'm doing deeper dives. Going into more of my thoughts Behind the scenes stuff. That link is down below Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. [somber blues]