It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, don't move , sit back, hear nothing, why did you stop the car , I don't know, I'll go check it out, okay, is it okay, is it okay , is it okay, is it okay, is it okay, everyone, squat down, squat down, squat down, squat down, squat down. Squat down, sit down, squat down, squat down , squat down, squat down, put down your weapons, and take them to the fifth and sixth carriages. Everyone, put your hands on your head, stand up , hurry up, everyone line up and go to the fifth carriage. Anyone who dares to move will be beaten to death. Did you hear that ? Go, go, go, go, go, go , go, go, go , go , go, go, someone is following , do you hear the gunshots? Something must have happened in the first few carriages, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, come, someone is following, do you hear gunshots? Something must have happened in the first few carriages, come on , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah! Just beat him to death, get up , ah, everyone, go that way, hurry up , hurry up, don't fight, damn, he 's a hard scissor, you can't force yourself to go to Car No. 5 and capture a few hostages. It's you two who are going to see what's going on. What's going on? I'm staying here and I won't run away . Don't try any tricks. We won't fall for you. What tricks can I do when I'm in shackles ? Trust me, go and see now . Maybe I can help you. Stop talking nonsense. Sit down. You will regret it now go. Hahaha, look who this is , hey, hey, don't fight, brothers, don't fight, hurry up, don't fight , army, shoot , put down the weapon , and hit again, I will kill them, what should I do, section chief, hurry up and hand over the gun, otherwise I will break him , ah, I don't want to talk anymore. Hurry up and hand over the gun. Release the person first and then hand over the gun. Just listen to you. Anyway, there are still many hostages. Come here quickly . Head, bastard , have you found the delivery person? The team leader is in charge of searching the 4 brothers in Car No. 9. They are all dead. Ah, where's the goods? The man who delivers the information on Wild Duck lives in private room No. 5. I just searched and found a man dead on the ground. No trace of the goods was found. The information on Wild Duck cannot be wrong . Let the brothers be divided into two teams and one team. Take the passengers here to carriage No. 56 and gather the other team here to continue the search. Even if the carriage is turned over, we still need to find the goods. Who is Section Chief Yu? Get down quickly. Section Chief Yu is already dead. Hey, okay , hey. Hey , god , ah, ah , ah , ah, what are you looking at? The cat is hungry. I want to ask you something. Hey, the old cat is calling you. 26 Isn't it Lao Bao 's warning? It's you. Hey, I'm asking you something. He doesn't answer . Liu Lao Li, I found it. I found it. Go and tell the captain who you are . It's better to go and tell the captain yourself. It's easier to walk from the outside. Your blood will not be in vain. Believe me, those who kill you will pay 10 times the price . Captain, just look here to see if Ge Tong has arrived. Do you want you ? Captain , Captain, Captain, the delivery person has arrived. Haha, Brother Jiji, Brother Hedong, look at a ton of good TNT delivered this time, it should be enough, okay Hedong? Good job, brother , haha . Liu Quan asked the brothers to unload the truck and go quickly . Mr. He, brother, went back and told the president to reassure him that as long as the Communist Party dares to take action against us, we will send all the hostages in the car to the West. Hahaha, just right . Ah, remember , we are waiting for your good news. Have you found the goods ? The brothers are searching. Don't worry, he can't escape as long as he is on this train. The wild duck's information is absolutely accurate . The president asked me to ask you to bring the goods with you. Go back and tell the president, please don't worry. I'll take my leave now. OK, let 's go. Liu Quan asked the brothers to put the explosives on the train and divide them into 10 equal portions according to the original plan. 100 kilograms per car. Shut up, little bastard, stop crying. Mom, I'll kill you . What are you going to do? Let me go, kid . Let me go. Oh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah . No return yet . Damn waste. After settling down, you take people to see what the hell it's been for so long. Go, one two three four. Can't cry. My love my love my love. Don't don't. Don't shoot. You are. Who am I? I am Cheng Chen's passenger. My name is Yu Ruping. I am the passenger. It's you . You know me. Of course I don't. But . I heard them say that you were the eldest brother of Prince Binhai, right? How could you be there? There was a fierce battle between the army and the robbers here just now. I was so frightened that I quickly hid in the luggage rack in the No. 6 private room. This way I escaped the bad guys' search. A few minutes ago, the car stopped. I heard no movement outside and quickly got out of the luggage rack. I jumped down and prepared to open the door to escape, but the door couldn't be opened, so I had to come back here . Then how did you escape ? Why did these bad guys want to rob the train? Just now I heard that they wanted to blow up this train and Binhai Railway Station. Lose Ah, blow them up. Blow up Binhai Railway Station. Blow up the Communist Party. That's none of my business. But if you want to blow me up too , it depends on whether their heads are strong enough. Then you have to fight them. I'm going to kill them all. But you're the only one. Now there are two of me. I don't know anything. This is a fully automatic submachine gun. The bullets are already loaded. You asked me to kill someone. I didn't tell you to kill someone. I just gave you a gun. If you want to be killed by others with a gun, Of course I have no objection to death. Remember, if you want to live, just follow me. Stop shooting. Don't fight. Don't hit me blind. What the hell are you shooting? Where is someone? What's going on ? Where is the bomb? I don't know. As soon as the fire flashes, the old man flies into the sky . The grenade I took off the safety ring and pressed it under the old leopard's body. As soon as the body moved, it would bounce up . I must kill him. Do n't run around . Put out the fire. Put out the fire. Put out the fire. Look outside. Shoot . I 'm standing there. What should I do now? I really can't run over there. Captain, we are searching. No, no, he is in the car at the back. Brothers, come with me and kill him. Wait. Although I don't know who he is , I can feel that he is scary. All the dozen brothers I brought with me have been reimbursed. All reimbursements . Have the fuses of the explosives been connected? Okay. All the brothers pushed to the first 6 carriages and immediately detonated the explosives in the rear carriages to kill him. Hahaha . He was going to be blown to death. He was blown to pieces and turned into ashes. Go away , Captain. They are there. Liu Quan, hey, take the people on the roof of the car and scatter them . Leave them to me. Brothers, come with me. I'm ready to throw you up and smash you through the window. Well, take care of yourself, get ready to go , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, it 's you who tied him up , what are you doing? I need to go to the toilet, there are so many things, um, you don't want to kill me, their heads are not hard enough, what should I do now? I was called in. Why would he listen to me? You are a woman and you will have your own way. Go quickly, brother. Come in and help me. What's wrong? Come in and help me. How many guards are there in the carriage? One is dead. Where are the other five? Go out and turn left. There is a switch box on the wall near the carriage door. Open the box outside and it is the gateway. What do you want me to do? When the train enters the tunnel, you immediately turn off the switch and cut off the power. What about you? Remember, these people are well-trained. Killer, if you don't shoot him, he will kill you. I remember, you have to be careful and don't worry. Hey , hey, hey , where am I ? Get him out quickly. Everyone, don't mess with him. He's on the ground. Come out quickly or I'll kill him. He, don't come over, don't come over, don't be so nervous, don't worry, I won't kill anyone , and I won't do anything to you. If he comes over again, I'll kill him. Why don't you shoot? Ah, ah, everyone, be quiet. Who of you knows how to shoot ? I know how. I 'm a cadre of the Public Security Committee. I know how. I'm from the Binhai Workers' Reconnaissance Team. Pick up the gun on the ground and leave it here to guard the door of the car. This gun is for you. Come with me. It sounds like it's gunshots. Could it be the People's Liberation Army? Come on, shush, don't talk, be honest, be nice, act like you 're old, old four, go to option 6 and see why you want a gun, bah, you can fucking instigate people , why don't you go and get down on your own , what's going on? The captain of the gunshot team is not good. The brothers in the car who are throwing people away and attacking people with strong hands can't stand it anymore. He is not dead. There is a girl with them. Didn't you say you have already dealt with him? I saw him fall. Did you see his body with your own eyes? Answer: No, I didn't see his body with my own eyes . In other words, you are assuming that he is dead . I am assuming that he is dead. Asshole , assuming is the mother of failure. Do you understand? I will take someone to kill him immediately. He, you can't kill him, don't come back, don't worry, brothers, come with me, yes, ah, ah, ah, everyone, be quiet, everyone, be quiet and listen to me . These bastards are going to blow up this train. If you want to survive, just listen to my instructions. Are there any gun users in this car? Will you pick up their guns and stand on guard at the joints on both sides ? Everyone else, please sit on your seats and don't run around. Who of you is coming ? Yes, hurry up. What are you going to do? Don't ask any more questions. We are on guard here . If a gunman comes over, shoot immediately . He has dug a hole in the carriage. Find him for me. Captain, will you stay in those two carriages and give me the rocks on the mountain? Let me loose you. It's not good to hold him here. I went around from the car. He was hiding in the car and ran away. Chase, chase, chase. You are brothers. I hit him. There is no firepower to hold him down. I'll give him a duck egg to try. Is that okay ? It's two people who just saw him on the roof of the car. Maybe the other one is lurking in the car. Go and see where he is. Where is he ? It's time to pay off the debt . Are you ready ? I said you will pay. This way of death is really miserable at 10 times the price. I asked what time it is now. It's about 2:30. Okay, I'm going to see how the goods are being found. Okay , great. Really good skills. In my impression, no one seems to be able to surpass you. Who are you, a communist? If you are a communist, you will kill me . No, if you are not a Communist, then there is no need for us to fight to the death. You can set a price or negotiate terms. My terms are very simple. Why, if you die, it seems that you are not a smart person. In your heart, smart people and cowards have the same meaning. Boy , then why don't you blame yourself for your miserable life? How should you change, a beast like you who doesn't care about justice and only cares about human life ? Answer me, besides being a coward , what else can you do? Can you tell me ? Oh, ah, ah, what else can I do ? Don't you like to brag? Keep bragging, do it , just stand here, you don't even dare to do it . Are you a coward ? Are you a coward ? Use all your abilities. Don't let me kill you like this. Please, please, please, please spare me . Don't kill me. Please spare me. I'll stop the train immediately and remove the fuse of the explosive . I'll change it. I 'll definitely change it. Please spare me. Oh, ah, ah, ah, hum, you're like this. There is no way to change the people, only dead brothers, jump out of the car, ah, for you, station ah, ah, stationmaster, look, something must have happened to the good police force, come and detonate the evacuated people patrolling the mountain, ah, ah , ah