Computers make no sense. Throw some metal in a box Inside your PC is a Central Processing Unit, with billions of microscopic switches called they can be on or off, kind of like a light The value at one of these switches is called a But put them together, and magic starts to happen. have 256 different combinations of 0s and 1s. by counting in a system called "binary". 1 meaning the power is included and 0 meaning 1 times 4, and 1 times 1, which adds up to 69. even better: It's often denoted by this 0x and Four binary bits can take any value from to represent those values, so a group of four Okay. Now that we can store numbers, you know, do something with them. which are electronic circuits that encapsulate lightbulb with two switches, where the light For example, only if A AND B are on. you can build circuits that perform calculations formalizing mathematical operations in binary. for humans, it's not really all that useful. we can assign a binary number to each it gets translated into this binary code, and as that is a capital A.", and slaps it on the screen. operating system kernel, like Windows, Linux or applications and manages how they all work Input devices allow you to give the computer but at the lowest level, computers only which is binary code telling the CPU When it comes to following these instructions, memory of a demented goldfish. It can handle so it's only really useful with You can imagine it like a grid, where which can be data or instructions, and has an Fetch from memory, decode instructions the result. This is one machine cycle. of instructions in memory, to run it, machine cycles until it's complete. Oh yeah did Modern CPUs can do billions of cycles every by a clock generator. The speed of this clock their CPUs to improve performance, which is What's ever crazier though, is that a CPU has instructions in parallel, so at the same time. which also allows every single core to so switch between them really quickly. how powerful a computer is if you have no way Typing machine code by hand would probably make The kernel is wrapped in a shell, which is just allowing for simple instructions in a But the best way to make a computer do which uses abstraction, so that instead of which is then converted into machine code for you. which directly tries to execute the source or GO use a compiler, which converts before putting it in a file the CPU can execute. syntax, but there's some basic The most basic way to use data is with which can then be reused and modified. different data types. For text, there's single For numbers, there's integers, which can also point numbers for decimal values. They're called float around to trade off precision with range. notation. It's some number times a power telling exactly what they look like under the hood. fractions. Some fractions like 1/3 can only be since memory is not infinite, you have to cut it causing pretty weird calculations, sometimes. use twice the amount of memory to Some languages like Python automatically but in a language like C, you have to The value of a variable is stored at some value is the memory address of another variable, a pointer is just some chunk of memory, Since a memory address is just a number, through individual bytes of memory. In some low-level languages like C, you have to no longer used. This all happens in the heap, grow and shrink as the program demands, incredibly easy to completely break your code. or that simply doesn't exist, which is known as chunk of memory that's no longer used, and you it anymore, that memory is no longer usable. the program slow down and eventually crash. like Python have built in garbage Different data types take up a different amount of A single character is most often one multiple character bytes, with a "NUL" Storing multiple items in a contiguous chunk More generally, it's a list of with each item having a numerical index, most to each other in memory, by knowing the address item in the array by using pointer arithmetic. which is just a way to organize Retrieving values from an array is blazingly when creating it, so when it's full, you can't it's just wasted memory, so a more It uses nodes containing a value which allows them to be spread apart in memory. as you can add and remove any node, and you can This is great, but they can be impractical, as if you traverse every single one before it. But as they allow you to create queues and stacks. just like taking a pancake from a stack. always points to the item that was last added the last item which increments the pointer back. and uses two pointers, one for and one for the last. Any new item gets added and dequeuing starts at the first pointer. which is just a collection of key value pairs. function to take a key and assign it to But sometimes, two different keys can map to the different ways to deal with this, but one way is array, which makes it a little slower to look up useful, because you can define the keys that point retrieving them is blazingly fast. useful to represent the relationship between If you take the nodes of a linked list, but you get a graph, where the nodes are undirected and can even carry a weight, which can Graphs are useful for analyzing groups inside points, for example in Google Maps. There's two starts at one node and moves out layer by first time. Depth first search explores every then it backtracks to the last node with a the same way until it finds the target node. exactly one path is called a tree, and represents computer. A tree starts at the root and branches Parent nodes can have any number of child most useful. For example, a binary tree where and all the values right of it are greater, finding specific values super fast. start at the root. If the target is smaller than and repeat this until you find the target. which is just a set of instructions The simplest way to write an algorithm is does something with them, and returns an output. by its name and pass in different arguments. gets pushed onto the call stack, which is and as the name implies, it's based on the stack To implement algorithms, you often have to operators like greater than or equality, and Expressions like these are simple: the possible values of the Boolean data type If some condition is true, do this, else do that. parts of code. One way is with a while loop: While Another way is a for loop, which can iterate like an array, but can also loop for a specific incrementing it after each iteration, and Functions can also call themselves, which is known can be broken down into smaller identical which is just 5 times 4 factorial, which But, by default, a recursive function will means that it keeps pushing more function memory is exceeded in a "stack overflow". to a recursive function, which defines when be executed without crashing your PC. expensive time and spacewise. So, to minimize the saved in a cache, so if they come up again, from scratch. This is called "memoization". an algorithm is, you can look at time and is required to run it. This is measured in Big between growth of input size and number of For example, adding 1 to every number inside an increases in a linear way as the array grows. operations, but rather the trend as the the input grows way faster than any linear function ever kind of linear relation, it's simplified down to When writing algorithms, there's some general in a list, a brute force approach would be to but a more sophisticated approach would be divide you cut the problem in half each time by checking side the target is until you land on the target. always multiple ways to achieve the same result, to find the sum of all elements in this list. code does, but not how exactly the computer explicitly describes how the computer should An extension of imperative programming is define classes as blueprints for objects, which properties and behaviours in the form of methods. properties as variables, and After encapsulating properties and methods and use the dot notation to work Classes make it easy to organize and reuse code, properties and behaviours of a superclass, For example, a RubberDuck subclass might implement rubber rucks can be treated as objects of the is called, which is the concept of "polymorphism". paradigms will work. a computer recognize which of these images describe what a bee looks like with code. aka teaching a computer to do a task without First you need a lot of data which Next you choose an algorithm that for example a neural network, where the weights feeding lots and lots of training data into accuracy you can then check with the test data. over time by comparing the output to what it in an error function, and tweaking its But no matter how futuristic, bleeding-edge, want people to actually use the application the internet. It's a network of computers from literally, the internet is a bunch of thicc along with facilities like Internet Service These computers communicate with the Internet has a unique IP address. Two computers can control protocol. It breaks messages into a bunch before the receiving end puts the message back you might have experienced "packet loss", which is If the internet is the hardware, then the web is Every page on the web has a URL. When you type it the server hosting this website with the domain domain names to IP addresses of actual servers. called the client, uses the hypertext transfer which then gives a response, ideally The actual website most often consists of three a website and is basically just a collection of so on. A CSS file controls the visuals and makes pressing nice looking buttons does nothing, so But sometimes things can go wrong. With which carries information about the status and anything starting with 4 is an error, the HTTP requests can carry different methods, for add, update and delete information. These are which connect two applications and allow example store and retrieve data from a database. database, which uses tables to store data. and rows represent individual datapoints. called the primary key. A foreign key establishing a relationship between the two. In With a language like SQL, you can write statements look up the titles and authors of all books, we have to join the authors table with combine two attributes from different These statements are useful, but you've got entire database with one line of code. But, Behind every login page is a database with log in, an SQL query is often used to check if the That's good, but, a devious actor could type terminating the string early and commenting out exists in the database, access is granted. is one of the easiest ways hackers Hearing about all these concepts is you have to see them in action and use can do with Brilliant, which has thousands math and data science to programming and AI. and interactive problems, which is not only fun but also proven to be 6x more effective I know that making time to learn new skills can be build valuable knowledge from the ground up in lessons from any device, anywhere, anytime. to analysing real datasets from which you can supplement with math fundamentals of the most in demand skillsets of our time. has to offer for free for a full 30 days, by also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.