Good bye. So have I got news for you. It's time now for the offending meter. Here's how it works. This is the offender meter. The index of everyone Teams have to tell us who's the offender, Let's get to it. Amber and Charlie. This is your offender. Oh. Oh, okay. He's offending everyone Ha ha ha ha ha! He is the new tenant governor Yeah. Points to that point. For the first time in this we have someone on the offender This is unprecedented. Republican nominee for governor of North telling who did Mark Robinson offend me? Do, everyone, Mark Robinson offended? Pretty much everybody. CNN firstrillioneported on Thursday made comments on a porn site Nazi and expressed support Oh, now, what's cool is. He doesn't know how slavery works because you, you the slave. You look like I'm not going to say that this is a plot campaign, but looking at some of the stuff to have been commenting on on the porn all of it didn't feel like stuff Some of the verbiage. It does feel like I want to reiterate, when a white person pretends that black people vandalize something, Does anybody have a guess to the name of the pornographic website Say it. Pornhub? No, no, that would be normal. Oh, it's new now for Africa. Oh, yeah. Double points for new website Africa. That's the website where Mark Robinson And check out their logo. Look at this. The world's most amateur black sites. The world by amateur font. Yes. No. Be fair, be fair. That was cutting edge Comic Sans Nude Africa was National Geographic. Like, that's. I just knew that. Yeah. Did you never look at National Geographic? Yeah. It was that past his point That's it. I'll say this. Whatever you say on a porn site. Comment room. You meant that. You got that? You got that post orgasm clear to you? Yeah, I was he was telling the truth. Michael and Rosebud. Let's see. You're offended. Oh, well, that's Mr. Beast. Yes. Oh, That is popular YouTuber Beast. Okay, who did Mr. Beast offend? Mr. Magneto. Oh, I get it. Oh, my God, I love me so much. Mr. beast offended five contestants of his upcoming who are suing him and Amazon of sexual harassment It's been a great week for dudes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, These wild man videos, hey, you did water in Africa. But he also makes crazy wacky videos too, You won't believe what happened and chronically mistreated people. Number eight will shock you. Mr. Beast's announced that he's teaming up with Logan Paul Oh, well, you can't do that. The same week that you get sexual misconduct. One downside, I do think, though, that from Mr. Beast and Logan Paul a call to Child Protective Services. Yeah, that was offended. Mr. team member 7000 points team. Michael, you want a lifetime membership Congratulations. It's time now for missing words. Captains. I'm going to give your team Get out and you'll have to fill It's going to be blank as hell. Michael and Rosebud, here's your headline. Candidate blanks during live TV debate. If it's not dies, it ought to be. The answer is hips opponent with chair. Yay! The race for mayor of Sao Paulo violent last Sunday Pablo Marcial, with a chair, said my name is send me homie in my block for trouble. So that I shall be sorry for myself. This is why we need a second debate. That's it. And we're not going to make them But everyone's chair will be a folding Yeah, it'll just be there. Amber and Charlie, here's Rare smelly, blank wins. New Zealand Blank of the year contest. Sparks spark. Final answer for fuck's Smelly Penguin wins New Zealand Did not think you were going to say Oh, this year's New Zealand home by the endangered Hoi ho penguin, And of course, this year's American a pigeon stuck at the Southwest yeah, that's what it is. A holy hole, penguin! The noise shouted not to be confused Bing ding ding ding ding ding ding poom For. I saw some of that on New Africa. Michael enrolls. But here's your headline. The apprentice producers were shocked blank intellect, his musty carpet. And that is not a euphemism. Yeah, you're both right points. Why? Answer is The Apprentice musty carpet on. Producers were shocked when they visited, saying that followed them I think this does beg Does the musty carpet Roy? Roy, ask him. Roy, I can't ask good questions. I must have covered Roy. Who's Roy? Roy for? Bonus points. Can either team tell me how never Trump. Republican Adam Kinzinger on Jimmy Kimmel earlier this month. Old food old food is a good guess. I can call Adam right Oh, Dragon Pottery? Yeah, he's my buddy. Oh, we don't have a lifeline on this show. Here's what Adam said on So if you take, like, armpits. Ketchup make up in a little. But it's probably like that on the stuff. Armpits match up makeup and a little. But how did he get that close? I didn't smell anything. I mean, we got in a bad argument, No. Amber and Charlie, here's Blank plummets during presidential debate. Wait. Oh, I have it. Blood pressure. No, that went the other way. Oh, Dave. the answer is porn traffic. Porn traffic plummets Yeah, but yeah, You didn't have to. What was Mark Robinson watching? What? He was watching the debate. You're talking off to the debate. All of America. According to Pornhub, a site they say that traffic was down across the country during the debate. Which makes sense, getting spanked, the debate was porn and, and that's what he was. And if you're into step moms. Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. Oh, yes it is. Let's take a look at Pornhub data. First of all sorry. Shout out to Pornhub to make it look like, you know, Yeah. What's amazing is as soon as that debate ends, people They're like, I've, Yes, I need to get back to work. Yes, yes. So we know that it was at its lowest Here's the question. What were the candidates that was so interesting stopped masturbating to eating cats Cats, dogs. Okay, at 936, Vice President Harris was talking and her plan for the housing shortage. Yeah, that that is not going to improve I mean, what is it just, like, put down the lotion Most people feel like they will never be It sucks Yeah, I think, but if we haven't we know that there's a housing shortage. That's why there's so many young men forced to move in with their busty Yeah, that's.