-This show is sponsored Visit betterhelp.com/Padilla, My name's Anthony Padilla, today I'll be spending a day the incredibly popular, beloved, to learn what it's like run one of the most popular By the end of this video, behind Jaiden's leaked face reveal, and what Jaiden's future Has animating been a wholly rewarding experience or has it come with struggles than anyone could ever imagine? -Hello, Jaiden. -How do you think since we last talked, two years ago? -I've just been tunnel-visioned on like, so I'm going to make it.&quot; Then I'll be like, and then I make it. Then here we are two years later, what have you been changing? I'm just doing what I want. They already gave me this was good for stopping me because, boy, did I not take care I'm sitting comfortable, so I'm going to make so everyone else -In that last video that we made, there were so many comments 'Holy shit. Jaiden face reveal.&quot; -Yes. [chuckles] -There were so many people that thought you'd ever revealed your face. -I'm not out there or anything. I don't think more than two times. I have it set up it's out there, but you're not probably going to find it -It's like this way, you don't have to do everything in your power It's like, &quot;Yes, people will see it.&quot; You're a little bit more comfortable, Also, it's not part of your brand. -When I was younger I was like, I'm too anxious, self-conscious, I was like, because it makes me really nervous.&quot; Now I've grown up and I still don't want but it's not as big of a deal. -You had at least two, where you never revealed your face at all. -Yes. I don't think I was worried because people on the internet lie &quot;Oh, Jaiden, I like your stuff. -You think people are lying -I feel like they're biased. -I was like, &quot;I don't believe them.&quot; In my own head, I was very upset about it, -When did your face reveal finally happen? -The first time, I ever went to VidCon, so I need to just get over it and stuff. It was a really stressful VidCon, where I was very self-conscious -That was your face reveal, It wasn't supposed to be for the internet. It was supposed to be -Yes. Then one of the people in the groups After VidCon, he was getting I was like, &quot;Can we edit my face out? I'm actually They're like, &quot;Yes, yes.&quot; I edited it all, and I sent it back. Then he's like, &quot;I think I'm going to put -Why? -Do they want to have the hot scoop, &quot;This is Jaiden's face reveal -They had, My name was first, and they put #JaidenFaceReveal and I was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; You're really willing to burn some bridges -I was self-conscious enough to be like, -After this person leaked between that time period, how long was that? -Half a year, six months. I felt awful. I was like, &quot;Get used to it, but it's out there -You just have to deal with it. -Yes. It was just me even though I was in a very early stage. -You're like, because I have no choice.&quot; -Yes, exactly. -Your official face reveal You went into all the details why you didn't face reveal, self-esteem issues, how you were going through through that time period. At the end of that video, Yes. Yes, one second. -I felt like I had to explain but my face was already revealed. Every person I met, &quot;You're such a disappointment. I felt like I could feel through their embrace. All my things that I've been dealing with and just explain the situation and be like, &quot;Also, it wasn't my choice.&quot; -How did you feel Did you have to take a couple deep breaths in? -You didn't even think about it? -People started texting me like, I was like, &quot;I can't look at the phone.&quot; -I've interviewed who have not revealed their face yet, and we talk a lot about but I've never actually who was faceless at some point, What was the aftermath -Well, I think mine because it's not like, It was like, Here's my face anyway. It was a lot of support. It still took me a while I have a very shy anxious persona online, and that was true when I was 16 and sad. I wouldn't say that I'm just a different person now. -Does any part of you wish -Yes. -Yes? -Just having my little cartoon character and I would like people It's a double-edged sword. I really like going and having fun on panels -Doing interviewers. -Yes, so I think the level I'm at right now -Where people can see your face but it's so not a big deal. to find it really. -How much of you has changed -Not struggling I'd say I'm much more confident in myself, being around confident people I was worried that if I became I would be arrogant and cocky. I was terrified of that so I kept myself down I found people and I'm like, &quot;Oh that.&quot; -You cannot hate yourself -No one told me that. -I have went through that as well, the more confident I started to feel the more I started to get scared and the more I beat myself up and all these other things -When you identify yourself and you start working on that, it feels like you don't know who you are. -Then with your eating disorder, you mentioned a little bit that you were looking for -When I went to college I was like, &quot;Oh, let's see where I'm at.&quot; Controlling what I ate -I also dealt with something similar and seeing the numbers there I don't know what I was going through but I felt like everything and that was the one thing -Look at my number. Look how low it is. That's a lot of control. getting that number low. Do have any idea how hard it is I did that. How did you get past that? -I dealt with it for x amount of months &quot;You know what? This sucks, I feel awful. It's summer in Arizona -You just decided you're good with it? -Was that a struggle stopping that cycle. -Yes, of course, but I was just like, otherwise I'll be stuck like this forever It took like many many years and stuff but it's gotten to a point where it feels -That sense of control that you had before you start to realize -It pops up here and there just like, Life has been hard recently. How about you If you want to control something, -Everyone who has had an eating disorder is probably going to have to for the rest of their life, -What first got you into the world -I used to be really obsessed I played every day after school Then one day, my laptop broke. I was like, &quot;I need to watch Minecraft I typed it into YouTube I found this channel called iHasCupquake, then they started we're putting fan art and I was like, Then they put it in the video. That was the highest They were saying like, to do animated gaming content.&quot; I sent another fan art I was like, They reached out and they're like, Do you have any animations?&quot; [laughter] -I drew something, tiny little whatever, -What were you doing? -Yes. [laughter] -The reason I was aware of animation was, my parents were like, &quot;We need to figure out -For life? -Yes. [laughter] -My mom's like, They put me in a 3D animation class, but I was still interested in animation &quot;How to animate.&quot; Then, I was like, The video hit a million views. I messaged them, I was like, Thank you for having me.&quot; They're like, &quot;Yes, of course. I was like, &quot;Yes.&quot; Every single time, I'm like, It worked out, luckily. As I grew, I was like I don't know the ratio of people because I'm the iHasCupquake animator girl -Was there a moment when you realized, This could be a lifelong thing.&quot;? -When I went into college, Halfway into the college year, I really want to do YouTube.&quot; I went up to my parents and I was like, I think I want to quit college.&quot; -What did they say? -Well, my dad was really supportive. He's always been like, &quot;I just want you to do Then, my mom's like, &quot;Okay, hold on. We need to make sure Basically just decided to do YouTube full time. In that year, then they'll be like, that you can not support yourself.&quot; We didn't even get a couple of months in They've been supportive ever since. -What has been -This person found and would constantly call her saying like, and Jaiden is my sister.&quot; -Your mom would know -Yes. You don't ask the mother. [laughter] -Yes, that's where they [censored] up. -Yes. Dad had to pick up He's like, &quot;I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I think I'm just in love with Jaiden.&quot; -Your most popular video it's your Pokemon Nuzlocke. -There's a set of self-imposed rules to make them more challenging I definitely didn't expect it to blow up. I really liked I watched Nuzlockes all the time I figured, &quot;Oh, I do animation. I was like, &quot;I want to do it anyway. I'm happy that actually, I think Nuzlockes I don't want to take credit, but maybe-- -It's all because of Jaiden Animations. How many hours How many hours does each -For the past Nuzlocke we did, and we posted It was three months of constant work. -I can see a lot of people being How could it be worth it into just one YouTube video? Then you see your video -It's also just I think it's fun. -What do you think have been of having so many eyes on you -Before, it was a lot of I was very self-conscious, anxious, Now, I'm like, &quot;It's just how it is.&quot; -You don't become obsessed with or &quot;What do people think of that?&quot; I know I have so if I start trying and try to optimize and stuff, first of all, I really can't Second of all, I just get sad. I'm not going to even start -You mentioned that you've been journaling Has that been helping you as well? -Yes. I've always journaled when I've been like with the eating disorder, with various other things. Just journaling because I keep everything to myself, and I'm like, I'll get over it by myself. I also feel like, since it's my problem, Journaling helps me get more in touch -When you get thousands of these different they have nowhere to go -I felt like the tendency and think it over and over and over until I finally and then, I'm like, &quot;This is the emotion. Now, I got to stop feeling that.&quot; Now, I have dissociation problems. -How's that working? -I feel very numb [laughter] but I'm working on it. -You still have a pile building there -Yes. Writing it down also therapy, of course. -Before we continue learning there has been rampant, lewd arts -I haven't said anything, -I wanted to let you know that you can watch the first episode over two years ago It was actually in this entire series ever. If you want to blast to the past, you should check that out. We've also got that's optimized, so you could just zone out or just to make your inner monologue I'd also like to thank for their continued partnership. Therapy has been super helpful by allowing me to have empathy and therefore Therapy can be customized and can be really useful to help with motivation anxiety, stress, insecurity, or whatever else that you BetterHelp has been continuing to improve and screens all therapists are certified, licensed, that offers video, phone, with your licensed therapist. You don't have to see anyone on camera if that's not something Therapy can be expensive. The price of finding a therapist and actually click with which is why BetterHelp to in-person therapy where you can start communicating in less than 48 hours. Thanks again to BetterHelp. We're giving 10% off their first month That's betterH-E-L-P.com/padilla. Now back to the world -There has been rampant lewd created based on your character. -I would agree. -It is so rampant that there are &quot;This is too much. This needs to stop.&quot; Have you ever talked about any of this? -No, I haven't. There's rumors. or, &quot;She said this.&quot; I haven't said anything, -Because if you bring it up, -There's the people who know about it and are telling me there's the people who are making it, and then there's the general audience Why would I talk about it People think that I have a choice on, That's not how it works. Would I encourage it? No. Do I want it? No. Do I have a choice? No. I've talked to managers and people and I'm like, &quot;Can we do something?&quot; They'll come back to me I wish that children, and all my friends I just wish that The people who are making the videos, really they make me because they're pretending on, &quot;This is horrible,&quot; when they're the ones You can't pretend to be the good person To put it lightly, -How do you choose versus what to keep private? -Even though I have told a lot of stories, I think I still am as private as possible. I've focused a lot and people that I genuinely care about. I will share things with them. The internet is not a place or need it, -I get my feelings hurt sometimes Thank you so much but then also, I feel really good I realized that if I'm going then I gave weight to all of them. I need to give weight to none of them, which is hard because I'm like, of people that do the positive things.&quot; You just have to numb yourself so that the hurtful stuff -It's very addictive to just go all in, but it's just like it's people that, I am very appreciative about [burps]. I see your social skills since the last interview. -Thanks. -You just burped? [laughter] -Of course, I am very appreciative and people that are very nice In the grand scheme of things, no one's opinion on the internet really -I could see some people saying like, I'm a fan and yet you don't The truth is, that's-- -That's parasocial baby. -It's parasocial. -No matter what you think, I'm like, &quot;I'm always going to be People will never fully It's always the idea of Jaiden.&quot; -What's next for you? to do something that's just astronomical -I just go video to video. We just finished a big project I think it's the coolest thing I'm really just trying to enjoy make it as long as possible on a very growing I don't have plans to leave, but just I'm going to make have a fun time, -Anna wants to know [laughter] -I had a lisp as a kid. Then I said that I had a lisp, -Was that one of your fans bullying you? -I said that was something I was bullied Then people were like, Let's keep doing that.&quot; any weak point, people are like, -This was permission. -What do you think -That I'm still very shy, anxious. Maybe when I was 16, but I've been on here I've learned the ropes and I'm all good. You guys don't need -Do you feel like you've been boxed that you had when you first started? -Yes. I think it makes sense that's how I really was, I'm more sure of myself, gotten more over anxiety and depression I wouldn't say but people keep assuming People really don't know me to my core -You got five seconds a shout out directly into that camera. Go. -Shout out to my team and not Ari, subscribe to AnthonyPadilla I guess. [laughter] -That was the most raving review Well, there you have it. and I feel like I understand her One thing that really stuck with me is how important it is to not rely because whether you find it can really start to eat at you I really commend as she shares these for millions of people to relate with -The reunion of team 66% Vegan by the way. I want to tell you all the story at Mr. Beast's 100K Youtuber Battle Royal. Two of the three people so we decided to name ourselves We are team 100% Vegan now. -Take that, James. -Took out the anchor. -Yes. Thanks for winning me -Oh, easy. [laughter]