Gaoxin , ah, this kid, don't stay here , go play aside, ah, this car hit me , why don't you leave, I'm looking for someone , who are you looking for, Yu Bo Tao cut , you look for Yu Bo Tao cut, your little sister, you know him. I don't know you, but my mother said that he will know who I am as long as he reads this letter . What is your mother's name? Yao Keren, the sky has eyes. I, Yao Keren, survived the catastrophe and gave birth to a child for the Yu family for the rest of my life. The one in front of you is I gave your daughter a nickname: Xueer. Originally, I wanted to keep this secret for the rest of my life and not bother you. But now I ca n't protect myself. I don't want him to suffer with me, so I gave him back to you. After all, he is my flesh and blood . I believe you will treat him well. Bo Tao's child is innocent. If he is lucky enough to have him recognize his ancestor, I will be grateful. There is another sentence that has been buried in my heart for many years , that is, I have never done anything to apologize to you or the Yu family. I really She will make him the happiest woman in the world , so I fell in love with you. Mom, where are you now? Mom, at home, how did you find this ? Jinyi sent me here. It took us a long, long time to get here. Jinyi Concubine, where is he? He walked me to the door and left. Then where do you live? I don't know how old you are. I am 5 years old, 5 years old, 5 years old, 6 years old. Time is right. But is she really my daughter? Mr. Chen, help me direct Madam. Don't alert anyone. Hello, Boss Zhang. Long time no see. How are you? Thank you. Thank you for being so young and beautiful. Hahaha. Thank you . Thank you for having such a prosperous family. You are really blessed. Thank you for entertaining guests. Thank you. Thank you for a long time. No, yes, yes, don't be polite, eat well , it was really a misunderstanding back then, but I was wronged . Oh my god, what did I do wrong? It's really a sin. Does Xueer miss her mother? Well, you just need to promise me one thing . Help you get your mother back. Remember, if anyone asks your mother's name, you can't tell them. As long as you obey, I guarantee that you and your mother will meet soon. Is it true? Of course, come and let us hook up. Uh- huh. Grape has it. What's the matter ? Close the door. This child, uh, this is one of my friend's children. Recently, something happened in their family. They have temporarily entrusted it to me. He may have to stay for a while. This child is very cute . Please help me take care of him and don't let him mess up. Don't worry about running . I can do it, Xue'er. This is Aunt Xue , go with him. Your name is Xue'er . What a nice name. Did your mother give it to you ? Well, I'll take him down first. Please follow me. Let's go. Uncle Chen, what's your name? Do you still remember that Dajiangnan Theater Company? I know it's not Sen. If you have any instructions, just tell me. I have something to do with Sister Chen . Please help me run. No problem. I'll leave now tomorrow. I'm sensible and can't waste a moment. Okay, I'll go and get ready now. Zhong Wei doesn't understand the rules. Put it down. How do you usually teach your adults? You 're not allowed to start until the table is served. You didn't see that your aunt wasn't here. I'm hungry. Yun Zhi. I was busy in the afternoon and there was no one around . I remembered that she suddenly had a headache. Just ask Mom Xu to bring her some food later. Speaking of this headache, there are so many guests at home today. Who doesn't have a headache or a sore foot? Well, don't come to eat. I didn't say a word to make my mother wait for so long. Hum, I think as long as I don't become this beast, no one will have headaches or leg pains. Let's eat. Let's eat quickly. Xue'er is good and doesn't cry. Don't cry. Don't cry . I I want to see my mother, Xueer. Obedient, my mother has something to do. I can't come . You can stay here for a few days. In two days, Aunt Xu will take you to your mother, okay? I want my mother. I want my mother. Hey, Xueer, Xueer. Stop crying. Otherwise, please be obedient . Mom should be worried, you know? Madam, come in . Madam, you didn't go out for dinner. The old lady is unhappy. But leave this child to me. You go quickly. Everyone is waiting. Hey, Xueer. Xueer, I think I'd better do it myself. Bring eldest sister's food. I 'm afraid eldest sister is really sick. Just eat yours and let Xue's mother take care of her . The child belongs to a relative of my mother's family. Something happened at home . He came to stay with me temporarily for a few days. Why haven't I heard you talk about it? This child also just arrived today. I wanted to tell my mother , but the room was full of friends and I was afraid that everyone's letters would be swept away. Bo Tao, it's not a shameful thing for someone to come to my eldest sister 's family. Why can't I tell you ? Isn't this a good thing, eldest sister ? Why are you giving me a headache? I had a headache just now, but it's much better now. Okay, that's all. The little girl came to grandma Now tell grandma what your name is? How old are you? Grandma asked you something. Ha, why don't you speak? She is a mute. I am not a mute. Mom, her name is Xue'er. She is 5 years old this year. Xue'er. Well, look at this child. He's so good-looking, Mom Xue, add a chair for him to sit next to me . Mom, let him sit next to me . Then it's better to sit here. Xue'er, sit here, come on, come in. Xue'er, let 's eat while we're eating. He can't hold anything in his hand, so Mommy helps him take it and put it aside . Yeah, come on, Xue'er, your doll is so ugly. Give it to me and I don't even want you . Well, what's so great about a broken doll? It's okay for Xu Ma to let him take it first. Didn't you say you can't bring anything to the table when eating? This is the rule. Anyone who comes is a guest. Xu Ma gave Xueer some shark's fin . Is she hungry? Haha, eat quickly. Come on, Xueer. Come on, eat it, eat it, Xueer, why don't you eat it? I don't like eating vermicelli. Hahaha, you don't even know about shark fin. You 're such a country bumpkin . You've always seen this, right? This is Tremella fungus. I like to eat it . but a bird 's nest. Hey , sister, what do your relatives do ? Why have you never seen shark fin and bird's nest? Okay, stop talking. Come on, Xueer , let's eat first. The food is cold. Come on, Xueer, I'll eat it. When I 'm full, I want to eat cake. I also want to serve them a cake. It's thanks to Brother. Xu Ma, I'm giving Xue'er a piece too. I'm here to give it to you. Thank you . Hahahahahahahahahahahahaha. Do you enemies still have any rules? Haha, these children are fighting and making noise. Why are you so angry? You are also talking about how you taught this child to be more and more ridiculous. Why are you scolding your child in front of others? Are you done with this meal? Are you going to eat or not? I can't even have peace of mind even after eating . Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, this child has been wronged . Fortunately, you just helped me investigate carefully. Thank you , it's nothing . Then why didn't you ask me about Xue'er's origin? Didn't you already tell me? Is she the daughter of your friend ? But I know you don't believe it. If you want me to know, you will naturally tell me. When the time comes, I will tell you. Time flies so fast . It's been 6 years. 6 years, you mean Xin? My guest has been gone for 6 years , yes , Bo Tao, why did you suddenly think of this? It's nothing. I was just casually talking about Bo Tao. There is something I really want to know about. Do you really believe that Keren betrayed you? Master, I Is there any news about the Jiangnan Theater Company ? I also found the place where Chen Jin lives and met him. Oh, that's great. Sit down and slowly say , hey, hey, give it back to me . Give it back to me. If you don't, give it back to me. Give it back. If you don't pay me back, don't pay me back. Give me back if you don't need me. Get out , don't pay me back. You said so. The troupe has been still in Hangzhou for so many years. Yes , have you seen the third wife ? Well, no one is not in the troupe . Where are you? I asked Chen Jin. He was very tight-lipped , but I could tell that he knew where the third wife was. It seems that I have to go to Hangzhou in person. Give it back to me. Give it back to me. Give it to me. You give it to me. This is mine. This is mine. It's mine, give it to me , ah, ah , it hurts me , ah, I'm sorry, go away, don't worry , haha, it hurts, ah, oh, what's wrong , Amy , Amy , come on, come on, get up , what's wrong? What's so great about a rag doll? You 're an uncultured wild child. I'm not a wild child. How dare you talk back? You don't know who you are and leave. Ignore him . They want that rag doll. Hey, you are a wealthy lady and you are not a rag picker. Tomorrow , mommy will buy you a one that is 10 times more beautiful than this one. No, no, I want this. Look at your child . My rag doll. Give me my rag doll . Haha. Give me back my rag doll. I want my doll. I want it. My doll, I want my doll, I want my doll, I want my doll, I want my doll, my doll, okay , Xueer, do n't cry. Tomorrow, Aunt Xue will buy you a new one, okay ? Why don't you want new ones? Why aren't new ones better than old ones? This rag doll was made by my mother. I just want this and nothing else . Wait for Uncle Yu to come back. Aunt Xu, just tell him and ask him to help you get it back, okay? Yeah , but Now you are not allowed to cry anymore. Uh-huh . Why are you crying again? Why do I want my mother ? I miss home. I want to go home. Aunt Xu, when will you take me to my mother? Don't worry. Don't worry. Uncle Yu, I have already contacted you. Wait for two days. Mom. He will come to pick you up, ah, oh, look at us, Xue'er, who has wronged you. The best is not to cry. Uncle Quan, has the second wife seen grandpa? Uh, grandpa, he , master, he, what's the matter with you? I usually answer any questions. How are you doing today? I can't pick it up . I'm sorry . I don't know where grandpa is. It's strange. He's not in the study and not in the factory. Normally, the master always tells where he is going when he goes out. You really don't know. Hey, Mrs. Second, how can I dare to hide it from you? Then I can't tell. If the master really has a crush outside, you can tell him even if it's too late to keep it a secret . As far as I know, the master cares about the family and has no intention of doing that. In fact, it doesn't matter. It's not like my grandpa has never married a third wife before. Unpleasant memories of the past. My grandpa is a smart man and will not make the same mistakes again. Really, it's better for you to just pick something nice and say it nicely. Oh, I have something to say, ok , ok, go and do your work. I always see Bao Tao distracted and wondering what he is doing. What the hell, who is it ? It 's me, Yu Botao. Please wait a moment, Senior Sister Chen. I haven't seen you for a long time , Mr. Yu. I didn't expect you to dare to come see me . Can you let me in ? But I'm not here. If you don't believe me, you can search me. I believe I believe where the other person is. I don't know. You are his best friend. It's impossible not to know where he is. Can you tell me where he is? Do you think I will hand him over to you again? Don't tell me. I don't know where he is. Even if I knew, I wouldn't. I 'm telling you, I came all the way from Shanghai. What are you doing to him? Hasn't he been hurt badly enough by you? Do you want to kill them all? You know that's not what I mean . Then you should know that I won't let you see him. After all, She is the woman I deeply loved. I was so angry that I was so angry that I could ignore Kairen's life and death. Yu Botao, how did you promise me back then? You said you would love her and love her forever. As a result, she has just entered the house and you have made him suffer so much injustice. If God had not seen it, he would have drowned in the river. How can you be worthy of me ? I am worthy of you. I am worthy of your own conscience. I don't want such a thing to happen. But what? Do you also think that Keren will steal someone ? Didn't you go to all the trouble to marry Keren because of her innocence and kindness ? How did she become yours and let you slaughter her? If you want to violate her, you can write a letter of divorce to her. Why did you have to accuse him of being unruly? I know no matter how I explain it now, you won't believe it. It's because I love him deeply , so I can't accept his betrayal. Did you see it with your own eyes or did I catch him in bed ? Yu Botao, you You keep saying you love him. What did you do to him when he was framed and needed your help the most? If you hadn't been cruel and sent him to the ancestral hall for public trial, he wouldn't have suffered that catastrophe . You still have the nerve to see him today. It's you. It was your suspicion and illness that caused this tragedy. You ruined his life. He couldn't bear your love. You know, I have struggled before, but those love letters, that handkerchief , and him and Ding Youming were holding hands in front of everyone. Next, I'm a man. What do you want me to think? So if you don't want to save me , then why are you here today? I just want to see him. What you said is so light. You are probably used to being a master. You can do whatever you want. You have I never thought that if Keren hadn't been rescued by a fisherman couple, he would have reported to the Sea Dragon King with the child in his belly. Who else are you coming to see today? Okay , don't say anything . It's all wrong. It's all my fault, but can you give me a chance to make up for it? The thing you're most sorry for is that Keren is not me. There's something I don't quite understand. Since he's not dead and pregnant with my flesh and blood, why doesn't he come back to me and come back to you? You've already He was charged with immorality. If he went back pregnant, he would be humiliating himself. Who would believe that he was pregnant with the flesh and blood of the Yu family ? It was too late for you to block him. The boatman who originally rescued him had to report to the official to replace him. Even though he asked for justice, he refused. He just doesn't want to have anything to do with your Yu family anymore . But how can he, a weak woman, live her life while pregnant and helpless? You finally said something as a human being, being a mother will force him to live strong. After that, the child was also born. The child was born on a snowy day during the Chinese New Year, so Keren gave him a nickname: Xueer . When I met him, he was really a very cute child. In order to raise Xueer, he moved around. He found me and returned to the troupe because he didn't want people to know that he was still alive. He kept his name incognito and was only responsible for acting. He no longer appeared on the stage. He said that the little chrysanthemum was dead the moment the boat was burned. It was a nightmare. He hoped that he would never think of it again. Do you think? I've told you everything you know. If nothing happens, you can go and wait until he says in the letter that he can't protect himself. What exactly happened? That disaster caused great physical and mental harm to Keren. Plus, Xue'er was raised by herself alone . Not long ago, he found out that he was infected with lung cancer. The doctor said that he didn't have much time left. Life is too hard for young people . Now the only thing he can't bear to worry about is Xueer. Originally, he wanted to hold on, but I tried to persuade him. He just agreed to let Xue'er go to you with her heart. Now that I'm here, Chen Shijie , I beg you, can you let me see him? Chen Jie, I beg you, it's a pity. You're a step too late . This cloak is under the ravine. What about the other person who was found at the bottom of the ravine? I'm afraid it's very dangerous . It's hard for ordinary people to survive in such a deep ravine , not to mention that he who was dying of illness was used as a corpse. Wild beasts are infested in the ravine . What do you think is left? Yu Botao, things have already happened again . No matter how much regret or guilt you have, it won't help. Now the only thing you can do is to let Xue'er recognize her ancestor and return to her clan. This way, she can smile. This is really my child . What do you mean by this? Your suspicion is gone. I made you lose Keren. Is it possible that you have to do it again with Xueer? Don't get excited. Just listen to me first. When she left the Yu family before, I didn't hear that she was pregnant and suddenly had a baby after 6 years. It's really true. It's very surprising and unbelievable. You can put yourself in my position and think about it. You don't have to mince words. Just say that you doubt Xue'er is the child of Keren and Ding Youming. The return of human ancestors to the clan is a big deal and cannot be taken lightly . Otherwise, it will be difficult to explain to our ancestors. I personally guarantee that Xue'er is your flesh and blood. If you still respect me as a person, this topic will stop here. If you still have any doubts in your heart , don't force me to bring Xue'er back immediately . I will continue No matter how hard it is, I have to let her have something to eat . I will never let Yu Botao's child live on the street . But what you said, I hope you keep your word. Xue'er is so good and knows how to help Xu's mother. Who asked you to take that? What's mine has become mine. That's mine. Give it back to me. Yeah, oh, oh, oh , oh, oh , give it back to me. My doll, my doll, give it back to me, give it back to me, run Aimee , mine, that's my rag doll, run, don't throw it away, give it back to me , hey, give it back to me, come on, come on , grab it, grab it, give it to me, Black Wolf Give it to me, Master , Miss. Master, Miss. If it's not yours , why don't you return it to me? If I don't, I won't, and you won't play with it . You'll just throw it on the ground. Even if we don't want it, we can't give it back to him. Ah, my doll, my doll. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh... grab the doll, grab the doll, don't step on me, don't step on me, don't step on me, here we go, Cher, we don't want it anymore, don't want it, little ancestor, I beg you, don't step on it, don't step on it. Just go away, my mother is not talking anymore . Why are you talking? Yes, it's not good . Master Chongwei and Miss Aimei are beating Xueer . Let me go. Come on, get up. Oh, what's wrong with this mess ? Do these two babies hurt after being beaten like this ? Xue'er, do you feel any pain? Oh, where are you injured ? It's scratched. It's okay. It's okay . Aunt Xu knows that you feel sorry for the baby. Let Xu Ma wash it and sew it for you. Can you sew it exactly the same as mine? Yes, yes. Xu Ma's needlework is so good. She will definitely sew it exactly the same as your mother. Thank you, Ma Xu. Don't worry, Ma Xu will make her look beautiful . Does it hurt? Aunt Xue will take you to apply some medicine later, okay? Well , what happened? Bo Bao, you are finally back. These two children who were beaten by Zomei and Amy are too shameful. They should be taken care of. They are always bullying. Xueer ah ah ah ah ahwa children bump and bump very normal. Where can I break it and give him some medicines and do n't do it. I want to go home . I want to go home. Home, I want dad to stop arguing, your mom, your mom is dead , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, wow, wow, did you give him medicine? It's okay. He just fell asleep and kept mumbling about looking for mom's mouth, nose, and eyes. She looks so much like a guest. She is really my daughter. You really shouldn't have told her bluntly just now that her mother is dead . How can he bear it when he is still a child ? Bo Tao, I see you are upset . What's on your mind, Bo Tao? I know who you are as a person. As long as you promise something to a friend, you will do your best to do it. But why are you so fickle about Xueer? You girl, don't think you are arrogant because you have the backing of a big family. Why don't I teach him a lesson today ? I think the child in our second room is easy to bully. I can see that you really want to get close to Xueer , but why do you deliberately keep a distance from him ? Why on earth? If you don't want to say it , then don't say it. I can't tell you anything else. I really don't know who I can tell. Xueer is Keren's daughter. Xueer is Keren's daughter . Wasn't Keren already dead? He was rescued. Don't you think that Xueer is very similar to Keren? Man, don't you think he looks so cute? No wonder I had an indescribable feeling when I saw him. What is going on? In order to find out this matter, I went to Hangzhou and found Dajiangnan. You saw Keren in the troupe , but he was deliberately avoiding me. I only saw Senior Sister Chen. What did Senior Sister Chen say? He told me that Keren found out that he had lung cancer not long ago. Time is running out and arrangements have been made for Xueer. After going there, he left the troupe to fend for himself . That Keren only left the troupe temporarily. Why did you tell Xue'er that his mother was dead? Someone found Ke Ren's cloak under the ravine. It can be said that it is a disaster . Xue'er turned out to be How could Keren's daughter be like this ? I never expected that Keren would leave a child. I tried so hard to make her disappear, but I didn't expect that a daughter would appear six years later. She is a haunting guest. Bo Tao is the woman with the deepest love. His daughter Bo Tao will definitely admire and love me even more. What if one day Xueer discovers the conspiracy ? This is too terrible. No, we can't let this happen. Mom, what's wrong with her face? It's so ugly. I don't know whether I should tell you or not. If you have something to say, just say it. Why are you hesitating? I'm telling you. No, it's true. Oh, it can't be wrong. Think about it , when did you hear that your eldest sister's mother-in-law had a child? Wouldn't it be suspicious if a child suddenly appeared among such a young relative ? Madam Chuntao went to invite the master and grandma to the side hall. Mom , um, sit down. Mom, what's the matter? Yun Zhixue'er is really your distant relative. Child ? Mom , why do you suddenly care about Xueer? Cai Ling, are you talking nonsense in front of mom? I know I am old, but my eyes are not blind and my ears are not deaf. If someone wants to treat me as a fool and cover the sky with one hand , I'm afraid it's too early. I'm sorry, Mom, I lied. Xue'er is indeed not my mother's child. Where did the child come from? Her mother, don't blame Yunzhi because I asked her to say that. Xue'er is a lovely daughter . Mother and son are connected. Keren still couldn't bear to break up with Xue'er, if it weren't for the fact that these are not important. What's important is whether Xue'er is the blood of our Yu family. He Tao, what do you think ? You are the father of the child, right? Isn't it that difficult? Mom, oh, mom , please don't embarrass Bo Tao. Back then, there was a lot of fuss about Ke and his senior brother's elopement . Now, 6 years later, a child suddenly appears and claims to be the flesh and blood of our Yu family. Who can believe it? Can Cailing say that? Wrong, when Keren left our Yu family, I didn't hear that she was pregnant for 6 years. Then a child suddenly appeared and said it was Bo Tao's. Do you insist that our Yu family recognize this? Mom, it's not right to recognize the ancestor and return to the clan. If Keren doesn't have this assurance, I don't think he would dare to send the child back. Besides , based on Xue'er's current age, Keren might have been pregnant with the eldest sister when she was in the Yu family. Although your words are not unreasonable. It's possible, but if you think about it carefully, it doesn't make sense. Our Yu family is a single generation of three generations. We are very thin. Didn't we marry her just to spread the family? If she was pregnant at that time, he wouldn't have announced the good news to his mother earlier. Why did he hide it and not tell her? You said it was yes. No, obviously there is a lot of controversy surrounding this child's life experience. I know you are kind-hearted , but you can't be so stupid as to regard a child of unknown origin as the flesh and blood of Yoga. There are many controversy among the ancestors of Yoga who know whether they will agree to it or not. This child can't be sent away. Mom, Xu'er, he's helpless . He's so pitiful. Where did you let him go? Otherwise , Mom, let me adopt him. Look, you're saying that you want to adopt him, regardless of whether Xue'er is or not. The flesh and blood of the Yu family , anyway, I have no children. This child is very close to me. Mom, I hope you can agree to let me dream of being a mother. Mom, this must not be possible. Why ? You have forgotten how Keren died in the first place. When this child grows up in the future, it would be strange if his mother's matter comes to be settled with our Yu family. Mom , our family has finally calmed down . We don't want to cause more trouble for a child with unknown origins . And our Yu family really can't afford it. It's a strong wind and waves. Mom , Mom, A Jiang, pack Xue'er's luggage and send her away immediately. It's the old lady. No one is allowed to send my child away. You have to think clearly. Xue'er is really your daughter. That's right. That's weird. Why didn't you admit it when mom asked you just now? I know you have a good face, but you can't deceive yourself . This matter is related to the blood of our Yu family. You have to think clearly. Mom , I am a man. How can I know if the child is mine? I don't know. Is there any proof that he is your child? I said yes, but I don't need any proof. Is it difficult for me to prove that Chongwei and Aimei are my flesh and blood ? It 's so boring. I didn't expect Bo Tao to be there. She admitted it in front of the old lady. Xueer left this little liar in the Yu family. Sooner or later, she will become a disaster. What should I do? I ca n't fight. I can't fight. Stop. Don't run. Don't run. Don't run. Do n't run. Don't make a fuss. Get out. Mommy brother hit me. What's the fuss about? It's a big disaster . When the time comes, those who don't know how to live or die, get out of here. I have personally guaranteed that Xue'er is your flesh and blood. If you still respect me as a person, this topic will stop here. If you still have any doubts in your heart, don't force me to take Xue'er away immediately. When I come back, no matter how hard and tired I am, I still want to let him have something to eat. Bo Bo , should you let Xue'er recognize her ancestors and call you dad? I don't think it's the right time yet. When will that happen, Bo Bo? What are you worrying about? There is something I want to ask you. Do you think these women like to eat sour food when they are pregnant? I have never been pregnant. How would I know ? Just pretend that I haven't asked you. Are you still doubting Xueer's origin? It's not that I didn't hear her say that she likes to eat sour food during the time I was with Coke. Since you still have concerns in your heart, why bother to recognize this child? As long as there is a 1% chance, I will not let my child live in exile. You can see what just happened outside . I have no choice but to admit it . Otherwise, Xueer will be sent out. Maybe our father and daughter will never have the chance to meet again in the future. Father and daughter , look at her appearance, her appearance, so and so. Do you believe that she is my daughter ? Well, let's wait until you think about it clearly. Zhao Xueer's birth date was calculated back when Keren was already pregnant . Why was there no sign at all? Your suspicion has already made you lose Keren . Is it possible that she was there? Are you going to do it again, Xueer ? Come on, Xueer, is Mommy Xu ready ? It's almost ready, Xueer, you will live here from now on, see if you like it . What's wrong, Aunt Xu, my mother is really dead? Come and sit down. My aunt is not dead. It's just what Uncle Yu said casually because he was in a bad mood. Don't take it seriously. Really, you didn't lie to me. When did Aunt Xu lie to you? You, stay here and your mother will come to pick you up in a few days. Yes, I knew my mother was not dead. Look at your rag doll. Look at Xu Ma, she washed it clean and repaired the broken places. Do you think it is exactly the same as your original one? Thank you, Ma Xu . Don't wash it again if it gets dirty. But it's about to break up. Baby, my mother is coming to pick us up soon. You have to be good or I won't take you back. Oh, hehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehe one one's one 's ' It must be that stinky girl who's there so early in the morning, screaming like crazy. It's windy outside. Don't go out. Who is that? Mom, Xue'er, who 's singing Beijing opera so early in the morning. She just came here. I don't know she violated your taboo. I'll tell you later. Tell her to go , mom, let me help you in, ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Hey ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhahahahaha ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. with With - out with my mom out there out there in the world . He's dead, Xueer , I'm your Uncle Yu, what are you afraid of ? Come, come, I'm calling you, did you hear me? I hate you. Why did you save my mother from death ? My mother will come to pick me up soon. I will never live here again. What a hell, you kid is so stubborn. You won't be allowed to sing in the future. You won't be allowed to sing in the opera again. Did you hear? Hey , Xue'er, Aunt Xu, what did I do wrong? Why won't my mother-in-law let me sing in an opera? This mother will definitely be very sad if she knows this, Xue. Son, if you want to sing, you can sing. Really, but it's best to sing where there are no people. Do you know why ? Because this is Uncle Yu's home. Uncle Yu likes to be quiet, isn't it ? Aunt Jin said that he really likes to listen to my mother singing opera Chengye. Aunt Xu, what are you talking about? It 's nothing. You're still young. Even if you say it, you don't understand. When you grow up, you will understand. Xueer, listen carefully to me. For your own good, there is one thing you must remember clearly . In other people's homes, you have to be patient with everything. If anything happens, I want to help you so I can talk to you. You know, Aunt Xu, I listen to you , okay. Bo Tao, these are some documents waiting to be sent out. Why don't you go through them quickly ? I'm still worried about Xue'er. Compared to these things , this is nothing but a big deal. The newspaper says that the Japanese are going to get involved in our industry and buy some factories at high prices with the intention of monopolizing the entire flour industry. If they succeed, the consequences will be disastrous . It's hard to say whether we will be affected in the short term. If this continues , One step at a time . The most important thing at the moment is to stabilize a few big customers in Shandong and Hebei . Thoughts are hard-won , porridge and rice. Thoughts are hard-earned, porridge and rice. Oh, Meimei, tell your brother, what are the last two sentences? I, I don't remember what I taught you just now, so I forgot them. Think about it again slowly . Porridge and rice should be thought of as hard-won. Half a thread and half a thread of constant thoughts. Material resources are difficult. Come, come, come. Hey, it's good, it's good . You have learned Zhu Xi's family training. Then how come you? I listened for a while. It's true. You are very good. Smart, what's your name ? Xue'er. Then you are a relative of the Yu family. I don't have such relatives in my family. Who knows where he came from. He is a wild child. No matter what kind of person he is, you are not allowed to say bad words. This is the most important thing in life. Do you know basic manners ? Yes, sir. The second wife asked me to bring some snacks . Let's take a rest for now. Oh , Xueer, you answered correctly just now. This is a reward for you . Thank you, sir. Hahaha, why are you giving it to him ? If you dare to run, don't run. Go back to your house. Go back . Ouch! Daredevils don't have eyes when they walk. It turns out to be you, damn girl. Why are you running ? You want to hit me to death. I'm sorry. I didn't see such a big person like me. You can't see who you are fooling. Well, you, you clearly meant to bully me. Chongwei and Aimei bullied me. I had no choice but to run away and bite me. If I don't treat you well today, you all know how powerful I am. A Jiang, come here and arrest him. Master, Mrs., go, go, go, go, go. Come on , help, let me go, let me go , let me go, let me go, close the door, yes, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, what should I do , let me out, open the door, open the door, so stupid, who dares? I don't believe that he is not afraid of the cold . How about opening the door ? Open the door. If there is a problem, push it on my head and open the door . Haha, open the door . Let go. Aren't you making me unable to get a good job ? A Jiang, what are you doing ? Save me, Ma Xu, save me, save Xue, Xueer , it's none of my business , it's the lady who asked me to do this . Mom, I'm going, hahaha , I beg you, oh, oh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, don't want me, don't let her worry , come, I'll give you some medicine , oh, okay, okay, I'm sorry, just bear with it, just give me some medicine, wo n't you? Why are you wronged? Tell Xu Yi honestly . Are Chongwei and Aimei bullying you again? Only by telling Xu Yi can Xu Yi help you make the decision. Does Xu Yi's mother not want me anymore? Don't think about things that don't exist. Why is his mother? If you don't come to pick me up, I really want to call my mother. But the child actually went to bed as soon as he said he was going to sleep. Madam, I have something to tell you. Bo Tao, I packed your luggage for you . Go to bed early. I have to go on my way tomorrow morning. I still have a day. I have a lot of things to do. I won't go to sleep in your room today. You have to go to my eldest sister, so I won't go anywhere . Just sleep in the study, can't you leave more time for me? It's been a while since we, husband and wife, had a good talk together. You have to go out and not see each other for a while. Now that the world is bad, business is hard to do. I'll take care of Shandong and Henan. Only when my business is stable can I have time to chat with you. Is it really so serious? How about I accompany you to a woman's house to help you unblock things? With my social skills, I can come in handy in doing business. It's not what you think. It's so simple . How do you want me to do it? Can you teach me if I tell you? Can you understand it? Can you please leave me alone for a while ? Then I won't bother you if I leave. Ever since Xueer came in, Bo Bao's heart has stopped focusing on me. Is it possible ? Is there anything strange in this ? Is Keren still alive now ? Hahaha, come, come, wait, wait , wait, wait, wait, wait, wait , stand up. Why do you two always bully Xue'er? Especially you, Chongwei . The boy will do big things when he grows up. This fist is used to deal with bad guys and old bullies. What kind of hero is a girl younger than you ? And you, Aimee, are the same age as Xueer. You are much happier than him. You have everything he has . Not only do you not sympathize with him, but you You make things difficult for him everywhere. Where did your upbringing go? What happened? Mom, sister, look, you scared these two children so much that they did something wrong. They always bully Sister Xueer. Don't talk nonsense. Which of your eyes did you see them bullying? Xue'er, how big is this family besides the two of them ? Is it possible for adults to bully a child? Color Ring Children need education. You can't spoil them all the time . Parents should set an example and know that there is justice and justice in this world. Justice, you mean that I don't understand justice. I'm trying to reason with you. I don't have as many books as you, but I know how to be a human being. I don't need you to teach me. What are you doing? Mom, the waves are walking in front of you. The roof is about to be demolished. Hey, what's going on? Two people are arguing like this and they are not afraid of outsiders laughing. Mom, how dare I be rude to the eldest sister ? She was carried in from the gate in an eight-carriage sedan. She doesn't look like me. I can't do anything. Dwarf, what did you say? Did I say it wrong? This child is bound to bump into each other when playing and making noise . Xueer was injured and he insisted on putting the blame on our second roommate. What can I do but swallow my anger ? What's going on with you ? Mom, Cheng Wei and Aimee, they always bully Xue'er. You've all seen it , but I haven't, but someone has seen it. Who has seen it ? I won't tell you how big this family is. I can guess who is causing the chaos. Sister , I finally understood today. It turns out that our second wife is not even as good as a servant in your heart . You have to speak with your conscience. Did you and I say something wrong? Take the matter of Xue'er as an example. You would rather believe outsiders than ourselves. Xue'er is not an outsider at all . You know it in your heart. I don't think so. Otherwise, why didn't Bo Tao let him recognize his ancestor and return to his clan ? Because he regrets that Xue'er is not his daughter at all. You are talking nonsense. Mom thinks so too. If you don't believe me, ask mom, Mom Bo Tao. He has never changed his mind. It's just that he is busy now. I believe he will deal with this matter when he is free. Hmph, you believe it . You believe it's useless. It only counts if Bo Tao believes it. Don't argue, okay ? Hey, I've already said it. People who don't know this would think that our house can't even accommodate a child. Sister , did you hear this? It turns out that in my mother's heart, Xueer is just a guest. If you please her so much, be careful to steal the chicken. Mi, why do you say something so offensive when it comes out of your mouth ? What do you mean? You're cursing in a roundabout way. Can you please just let me be quiet for a while? Chen Tao, it's the old lady who is helping me back to the room. Old lady, aren't you going to come? Are you going to go for a walk in the garden? How can you be in such a mood now? Let's go , madam. The car is ready. Let's go and fight with me. The second madam is you, right ? You told the secret to the eldest madam, right? Listen to me. Don't think you are the eldest madam. I don't dare to do anything to you as a member of your mother's family. Next time I catch you chewing your tongue, I'll make it hard for you. If you don't believe me, try it. The second wife , the second wife, the second wife has news. How about my offline relatives? People say that the Jiangnan Troupe is performing in Jiaxing. Well , you understand. My hands are so smart and comfortable. Mom, I really want to serve you every day. But what's wrong ? Is something wrong? Mom, someone from my hometown said that my grandma is seriously ill . I hope I can go back to see him. Finally On the other hand, Bo Tao is not at home. I am worried that Bo Tao is not here. I am here. I quickly asked Lao Xu to call the factory and drive the car back. There is no need. Mom , if I don't say anything this time, it will take most of the day . What if? The factory is busy and the car cannot be dispatched . I can't afford to delay the official business . Then how do you go back? I asked Ajiang to call a car for me . Well, it's better to go to Laoquan. If it's worth more money , I'll tell you. Do n't be so shabby . It's a disgrace to our Yu family. Do you know ? Thank you, mom. Hahaha , you're hungry. I'm here to bring you food . But , oh, oh, oh, oh , oh, oh, ok , ok, it 's terrible . I know my heart . Daaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaha , I 'm ruthless . Isn't there a guy who 's trying to grab the Baochai? Isn't he dead? Let him go. Ah, what is Teacher Yang here? Have any of you seen Teacher Yang? Are you really him? Hey, the medicine can't be tolerated. Why is it you, Mrs. Yu Er, what are you doing? Sorry, I got the wrong person. Who do you think I am, Mrs. Yu Er ? The person you are looking for is no longer in this world. Are you a noble person who forgets things too much or does too much out of mind? Mrs. Yu Er, a wealthy family has the rules of a wealthy family. Our theater troupe also has taboos in our theater troupe. Please be respectful. If you want to see the show, please come. Go to the front desk, do n't rush into the backstage, lest you lose your identity , don't you admit the wrong person? What's so great about that woman? Xiaolan, thank you, you're welcome . Stop , why did you run away when you saw us, you stinky girl? If you dare to come and play with us, why are you dragging me? I think highly of you, so I came to play with you. You are scared, right? That's why you don't play with us . You are a coward. Just play, whoever is afraid of whom? Well, you stand in the middle. Why should I stand in the middle and let you stand? Why are you standing so long? I don't want to play anymore . You give me. If you want to play, don't grab my doll. Don't grab my doll. Oh, ah, do you want to play? OK, OK. I'll play with you, but you have to take turns. If you don't hit, stand in the middle for 5 times. If you don't hit, just change . From you , haha, hey, hey, hey, hey , hey , oh ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ahi to see the new clothes you bought by your mother, this girl ran out and played again What's wrong? What's wrong? You just broke the vase in grandma's room. Which vase is the big one on the floor or the small one on the table ? It seems to be the small vase on the table. Oh, it's over . Oh, you are an antique from the previous dynasty. Your grandma, baby, is in trouble now, especially if you don't get peeled off by grandma. I didn't do it on purpose. It's all Xue'er's fault. Who made him stand poorly and caused my ball to break the vase, Xuexue? My son is here too. We asked Xue'er to play with us in the snow. If grandma asks you, even if I kill you, don't admit that you broke the vase. Do you understand ? I'll leave the rest to mom. Listen carefully, okay? You are the one, mom. Ouch. What's going on? This is mom's most precious vase! Huh, what daredevil did it? You must punish him! Old lady Xue'er is here. Grandma Xue'er asked you if you broke this vase. It's not me. I don't have a grandma to ask you again. Did you break the vase? It was really not me. The vase was not broken by me. She refuses to admit her mistakes. What grandma hates most in her life is a child who refuses to admit his mistakes. Oh, I have already guessed that it must be him. Look, this vase is in your room. It's been fine for so many years, why did he break it as soon as he came ? It's really not me. It's the heavy tail that broke it. You're talking nonsense about what you did wrong and you blame it on others. You're an uneducated child. It's really not me. It's really the heavy tail that broke it. Shut up. Not only did you learn to shirk responsibility at a young age, but you also spit on people. How can you do this when you grow up? Kneel down and admit your mistake. I'm not wrong. I won't kneel down. I will let you never admit your mistake. Chuntao said, what's going on ? I heard the sound of the vase breaking, so I ran out to take a look. I saw Xue'er just running away. What else can I say? Because it's okay, don't do it because the witness is right in front of you. You still want to quibble, Mom, this kid doesn't even have the slightest bit of upbringing to dare to contradict you. I think it's time to discipline him well now so that when he grows up, he will ruin the family tradition of the fisherman's family like his mother did . Lock him up for me, old lady. Why do you lock me up? It's not me who broke the vase. It's the descendants of my Yu family. He must abide by the rules of my family. Put him in the back room and lock him up. No one is allowed to let him out without my permission . It's the old lady . I didn't type it wrong. Why are you arresting me ? Let me go. Let me go. Let me go . Let me out. Let me out. Let me out. Help! Can't you just admit your mistake to the old lady? I didn't break the vase. You all don't believe me. Why let me out ? I can't let you out. This is what the old lady meant. Chuntao let me out. 2. Madam, please help me. Don't shout. It's useless to scream. Unless you admit your mistake, I didn't do anything wrong . Well, I want to see how stubborn you are. I 'll starve you for three days and three nights. I don't believe you. If you don't beg for mercy, let me out. Help me. I didn't break the vase when I went out . Let me out. Cher, Cher. Have you seen Cher? No Mrs. Eight, Cher. I didn't break the vase . I didn't break it. I didn't do anything wrong. I didn't do anything wrong. I didn't break the vase. Xue'er , where is this child Xue'er ? Xue'er, Xiao Wang, have you seen Xue'er ? Didn't you see this child ? Come on, open the door, but if the old lady blames me, I'll take the responsibility . Drive quickly , drive quickly! Oh, Xueer , Xueer , Xueer, get up! Oh, how did it happen like this? Xueer, what's going on? You speak. Don't be afraid to tell Aunt Xue . Aunt Xue will uphold justice for you. Humph, what's going on ? You speak. If you don't speak, how can Aunt Xu help you? Then why are you such a stubborn kid? Even you say that, and everyone bullies me. Okay, okay. There's nothing, there's nothing. Aunt Xu and Ma Xu, Uncle Yu both like you. Uncle Yu doesn't like me at all. I want to leave. Let me go. Xueer, you can't leave . I 'm not a yoga person. Why can't I come back? Because because of my mother. What should I do if I can't find you when I come ? Mom won't come to me at all. He hasn't come at all. He definitely won't come. He won't come at all . I want my love . Okay, don't cry. Stop crying. Ah, be good, Xue'er , be good , be good, be good, don't cry , ah, ah, what did Xue'er do wrong? Why are you treating him like this ? Huh, why? As soon as they meet, they start to accuse each other without asking the whole story first. Even if Xue'er did something wrong, He is just a child. Do you have the right to treat him in such a harsh way ? You don't know how hateful he is. He refused to admit his mistakes and didn't care. He actually falsely accused us and gave us a heavy commission. This is so bad to the core. An actor's child is an actor's child. Shut up. No matter what Ke'er does, he is married to Bo Tao. Isn't it the same as scolding Bo Tao if you scold him? And no matter what Xue'er says, he is still the flesh and blood of our Yu family. Even if he has done something wrong, can you educate and correct him? Just lock him up and deny him food. Did you go too far? It's none of my business. The old lady gave the order. Mom, how is this possible ? You don't want to use mom as an excuse for everything. Hum, your tone sounds like everything I should be the one responsible for all the bad things. I don't mean it. Xue'er, this kid is a bit stubborn, but I trust him that he never lies . Well, you mean that the vase was broken by Aimee and Chong Wei. Sister, you are too biased. Well, Xue'er is Bo Tao's daughter , so we two are not members of the Yu family. Don't think you are dissatisfied . I treat them both as a thorn in my side. Where did you go ? I tell you the truth. It was Chuntao who saw Xue with her own eyes. My son broke the vase. If you are not convinced, go and ask the old lady. Don't come and ask me . That 's right . Mom, I asked Chuntao to do this. Mom, this child refuses to admit his mistake. Lock him up in the room and let him reflect on it. Am I wrong? My wife refuses to learn from Keren's mistakes. I have to strictly discipline this child. If he does something outrageous in the future, it will bring disgrace to our Yu family. Mom, you don't have to like Keren, but the child is innocent, Xue'er. After all , she is Bo Tao's flesh and blood . Is she my granddaughter? Does he regard me as his grandma? Yes, it's just a vase. If it breaks, it doesn't matter . I'm so angry that this child has no education and won't say anything. When did you admit your mistake ? When did you come to my house to get the key and let him out ? Did you hear me ? Mom, why didn't you come to pick me up ? Have you forgotten Xueer? Oh oh oh, my heart can't do it. I have to find a way to put Xueer out. Let her out and lock her up again. She won't be able to bear it. Mom, mom , mom, mom, who is this? Ouch, Xueer , go back , go back, let me go , let go, let me go, let me go, let go. I'll give it to Lao Du. Thank you. Go ahead. It's Xue'er who told grandma why she ran away. This is not my home. My mother would never treat me like this. It's because you didn't make a mistake. I didn't make a mistake here either. Why don't you admit your mistake? Chuntao He saw it with his own eyes. He has no grievances with you. Why didn't he say it and others wanted to say it to you? It was because Chongwei and Aimee ran away first. Didn't he see that I really wronged him? When Mrs. Chuntao broke the vase, Chongwei Where are Aimee and Aimee? Before that, they were playing ball in the yard with Xue'er. I know, go ask the second wife to come over. It's the eldest wife , Xue'er. Mom, Xue'er did something wrong. This girl wanted to run away, so Lao Du stopped her. Hey , isn't the hut in the backyard locked? Why did Xue'er run out of it? Let's not talk about this. This girl is cold and hungry. Take her down to freshen up and get something to eat for her. It's Xue'er. Come on, thank you grandma. Come on! Come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, okay , don't force him Let's go, Mrs. Xue'er. The second wife is here. Mom, please look for me. Yes , you just saw Xue'er on the way here. Yes, who is so bold? You let him out without your permission. How did you know it wasn't me? He let him go? Xueer, he didn't admit his mistake. Isn't it reasonable for you to let him go ? Do you think so? Then who do you think will let him go ? Normally, whoever loves him the most should be that person. What you mean is recognition. I didn't name him, but he seems to be the only one in this house who is qualified to get Mani's bunch of keys . How did you know that my key is missing? You have to have a key to open the door. Yes, that 's right, but it's strange. How come my key is missing from the dresser drawer? Mom , you forgot your bunch of keys. It was placed in the drawer of the cabinet outside. Sure enough, your mother, Xue'er, doesn't have a good relationship with me. Everyone in this house knows how could I let him go? You know that Xue'er can't stay here any longer. He wants to Run away , so you just use the trick to your advantage. Oh, mom, look at what you told me about me, a woman. Why do you think so much about me? Why do you still quibble about the key? Take it out yourself or do you want me to search you? You are really Xueer's second son to me. Mom, you are an elder, why are you so narrow-minded and can't tolerate him? You are trying every possible means to drive him away. Don't think that I don't know who broke the vase. In order to protect your two children, you let Xueer take the blame. This dog is so anxious that he jumps over the wall. It's a shame. Lao Du stopped him in time, otherwise Bo Tao comes back. Let me see what you can tell me , Madam. Master is back. Mom, my master, why are you back in the middle of the night ? Mom, didn't you go to Shandong? Why are you back again? It suddenly rained on the road and stretched out your hand. Without the five-fingered car, we can't move forward at all. We have to come back temporarily and wait for the weather to be better . It's already so late. What are you still doing here ? You came back just as Xue'er is a little angry. Go comfort him, Xue'er. What's wrong ? It's okay . Maybe I misunderstood him. You can go and persuade him and it'll be fine. OK, I'll go check on him. You can go to bed early . That's okay. I'll take over for you. From now on, take good care of those two of you. Children, stop provoking Xue'er . Who dares to provoke him? That girl moves like a leopard and wants to eat people. Look, you are talking, here you come again. Pamper you. Those two children have been pampered to such an extent that they are lawless. Please pamper them. If you do something wrong someday, don't blame me, an old woman, for not reminding your mother to eat slowly. Don't choke. Xue'er , if you suffer any grievances in the future, don't keep it in your heart. Tell Aunt Xue, and Aunt Xue will find a way for you. This way you can suffer less, you know? No one believes what I say. Everyone only believes what Ai Ming and Chong Wei said. Well, Aunt Xu believes what you said. Aunt Xu, if you keep urging my mother, can you tell her to hurry up? Come and pick me up, Xueer. Isn't Xu Yi not good enough for you? Xu Yi is very good to me, but I'm so scared that Aimee and Chong Wei will play no tricks on me tomorrow. I really don't want to stay any longer, but Your mother, my mother, will not let me go. She is just sick and confused. She has not forgotten Xueer. She will definitely come to pick me up when she is clear-headed. Aunt Xu knows, I know , but now you have to eat well, wear warm clothes, and keep your body healthy. Be healthy so that your mother won't feel distressed when she comes. Well, eat quickly, Xueer Botao. Why did you come back ? It rained on the way . I had no choice but to come back. Xueer, you have been wronged. You all know it . Ma Quan told me. Let Uncle Yu take a good look at you, Xue'er. Uncle Yu called you, Xue'er, Bo Tao . Xue'er has been busy all day today. She's tired. Let's talk tomorrow. Okay, Mrs. Xu Ma, take Xue'er back to the room to sleep. You know, Xue'er, we The word &quot; Let's go &quot; is half spoken. Why are you stuck in your throat and not saying it out? What are you talking about? Dad, you still can't convince yourself yet? Don't force me, okay? I haven't thought about it yet. It's a simple thing . No, there is nothing else to think about. Anyway, Xue'er has already moved in. I think it's not that important to recognize one's ancestors and return to the clan . Yes, you already have Chong Wei and Aimee. It's not that important to you to recognize one's ancestors and return to the clan. But for you, For Xueer, it is the symbolic wave that changes his identity and status . It is because of your appeasement that Xueer has been wronged. Do you know that I was thinking about it? Fortunately, it was Lao Du who stopped Xueer just now , otherwise it would be impossible for you to come back. What's going on when I can't see Xue'er ? He's going to run away just because his mother misunderstood him for such a trivial matter . This kid is too stubborn. If this is a trivial matter , then why is Xue'er locked in the storage room and not even given food to him? What happened after eating too much ? The antique vase in the stable was broken. In order to protect Chong Wei and Aimee, Cai Ling insisted that it was Xue'er who did it. But Xue'er refused to admit it and said it was Chong Wei who did it. This kid is so noisy and noisy sometimes and sometimes he laughs. I can't figure out who is who and who is who. I think this matter is over and we shouldn't mention it again, okay ? This made him feel a great resistance in his heart. He couldn't stay in this house any longer. Oh, what do you want from me ? Is it hard to give Chun Wei a lesson? The palms and backs of his hands are all flesh . I didn't ask you to do this. Let's talk about it. This is just treating the symptoms but not the root cause . It won't solve the problem at all. Bo Tao, please let Xue'er recognize her ancestors and return to her family as soon as possible. Let Xue'er stay in Yu's house legitimately . In this way, if anyone wants to bully him again in the future, he will be afraid of him. Let's talk about it separately. I think carefully about the waves. When the wind blows away the last flower, you just passed by me. My love turns into colorful colors, interpreting the joys and sorrows of the world. The past is like smoke and lovesickness becomes a river. Singing the unchanging promise that will not change for thousands of years . La la la la. La la um, Brother Bo Tao, Zhong Ling, hahaha, what are you looking at ? You are so fascinated. Don't you think the snow fell very early and heavy today ? I didn't pay attention if you didn't remind me . I am a careless person , not like you. It's easy to be moved by scenes. I said Bo Bao, you should be a poet or something like that. Hahaha, the topic is too far. Closer to home , what are you looking for with me? By the way, I have spotted a piece of land near the Suzhou River that has great potential for development. I want to buy it and build a villa. Are you interested in investing in Brother Dong Lin's real estate? Am I a layman or pragmatic? I just need to run my flour mill well. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha This child is so cute. He is like the embodiment of cuteness. Is he still used to being in the house? He often clamors to go back to his mother, so you did n't tell him. His mother is already dead, forget it . The saying that life is like a play is not false at all. Back then, everyone thought Ke Ren was dead, but they didn't expect that he actually survived and gave birth to a child for you. I often wonder if it would have been the case back then. I didn't marry Keren. Little Juhua may still be the most popular Minling in the north and south of the country, and she wouldn't be so deadly . That 's right. But if you didn't marry Keren, how could you have such a cute child like Xue'er ? I happen to have We have to go back to the factory. Let's go together. Little snowman, you are so beautiful. You are as beautiful as mother. It would be great if mother could be by my side. Mom , stop. Why don't you leave when you see us? Sing for us. I can't sing. My mother said you Why can't a child whose mother is an actress not sing? Even though I can sing, I won't sing for you. Aunt Xu told me to sing in a place where no one is around. What do you mean ? Brother, let's play with us. Don't pay attention to what the bastard is doing. What do you say to me? Mom said your mother steals people, you are a bastard, look at this snowman, step on him , step on him, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, chase the horse, ah, I want to shoot Snow Lotus, you, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, blood is bleeding. Mom, my sister is bleeding. I ca n't bear it any longer. Doctor, please be gentle . Didn't you hear him shouting that it hurts? You know, be good and bear with it. Will such a big wound have scars in the future? Will the girl's appearance be disfigured? Come and sit down, Xueer. Xue'er, please tell Aunt Xue how it happened. Don't be afraid. Speak slowly. Aunt Xu believes you. Sunny day, Bo Bao. How was he injured ? Bo Tao didn't cry. He didn't even shed a lot of blood. He scared me to death. He scared me to death. Oh, why did this happen to this child ? He was too careless when walking. Hey, this has nothing to do with walking. It was Xueer who pushed him, wasn't it Xueer ? Poor Amy has been wronged so much. You don't even know how it's possible. How is it impossible? Xue'er has the backing to do whatever she wants. She's so arrogant. Don't cry. Stop crying. My poor Amy's little face will be disfigured. How will you get married when you grow up in the future? So don't cry. Why are you crying if your child is crying ? Don't worry, I will investigate this matter clearly . Jaime, tell me honestly if it was Xueer who pushed you. Oh ? The child has been hurt like this. You still scare him ? Do you still need to ask? Is it Chongwei who hurt him like this ? Will he hurt his sister? Or is it true that Aimee took the wrong medicine and hurt himself like this? Hao Bo Tao, you have been busy with business all year round and have a lot of things going on at home. You don't even know that Xue'er has been causing trouble every day since she came. The eldest sister in the family has used blind protection to protect Xue'er and pampered Xue'er even more than the royal family. She insists on being domineering . We Chongwei and Amy suffered so much that she didn't even dare to say a word. If Amy hadn't been injured today, I wouldn't have mentioned it to you. If you don't believe it, go back and ask. I guarantee that the eldest sister helped Xueer push everything. On the contrary, it was not that Xueer was bullied by these two children and now took the blame again, which made him feel extremely resentful. He couldn't stay in this family anymore, so he could go home and wait for the good show . Ah, baby, it's okay. Daming bled a lot. I'm so afraid that Aimee has already been sent to the hospital. The doctor will treat him and he will be fine. If I had known earlier, I would have ignored them . Will Aunt Xu and Uncle Yu blame me for waiting for Yu? When uncle comes back, Aunt Xu will explain to him. Don't be afraid. You didn't do anything wrong . They are deliberately looking for trouble. Well, Bo Tao hasn't fallen yet . Did you push him? Bo Tao. Children will inevitably bump into each other when playing together. I'm asking Xue'er. I'm not asking if you haven't fallen yet. Did you push me ? I am Chong Wei Haimei's mother. She told me everything. You are still arguing about Bo Tao. Things are not what Cailing said. Why are you still protecting him? You don't love him. You are hurting him. How can you believe Cailing's one-sided words ? Do I believe your one-sided words? How could you, a child like me, be so evil-minded? What should Aimee do if she has any sequelae in the future ? No. I am the one who caused themselves to deliberately seek trouble. They are still talking harshly. Look what this child said. The matter is already in front of him . He still refuses to admit his mistake. If it is not me, it is not me. Why are you accusing me? Hum, I am accusing you. May I ask why? I'm slandering you because I'm not Aimee , I'm not Chongwei , I'm not your child. If you use it again, it will hurt me . Too to . Oh, do n't see me . Ahhhh . Don't see me. Don't see me. Cher . Cher . Qu Man Han, hurry up, we must get him back. Hey, you're not allowed to chase the waves. I said you're not allowed to chase them. You don't understand. Is it because it's windy and snowy outside? The big kid's clothes are so thin. He doesn't know how he is in the midst of blessings, so let him suffer a little. Now is not the time to be angry. What if? What should I do if I get kidnapped by a bad guy ? What should I do if I get sick? He can't die. I won't tell you. Let's go . Linzhi , oh, my butt is on fire. Linzhi, what's going on ? What on earth is going on? Mom, isn't it Xue? Did Bo Tao hurt Aimee? After Bo Tao scolded him a few words, he lost his temper and ran away. Now, the eldest sister and Xu Ma chased him. Is it really Xue'er? Won't she unjustly accuse him again? Oh, mom, Aimee is hurt. Isn't it adding insult to injury that you are still wronging him after things like this? Okay, okay, don't cry, don't cry, come and see grandma, oh, is this injury okay ? ah , oh, there are a lot of stitches. The doctor said that the dressing must be changed on time. Take good care of him, okay, stop crying. Is it really Xue'er? You won't have wronged him again. Could it be that Xue'er has really been wronged ? Even if Chongwei and Aimei are looking for trouble, Xue'er shouldn't push others away Aimee got hurt. Now is not the time to be angry. What if she is abducted by bad guys ? What if she gets sick? If she finds him, he has not run away from home. He has no intention of staying . Just let him go. You obviously don't think so in your heart. Why do you say that? Your slap hurts not his face but his heart. Bo Tao, the child is innocent. Don't involve adults' feelings, okay? If you really can't open the knot in your heart, why don't you just do it? Just give the child to Chen Jin to prevent him from suffering here. How sad would he be if he knew how you treated Xueer ? Don't you want the tragedy to happen again and leave you with regrets? At that time, you will just blame yourself. It's too late to regret anymore. Li Lang is working hard. Hey, hey, hey, hey , uncle , do you know where my mother is? I don't know, auntie, do you know where my mother is? I don't know. It's snowing so heavily. Why are you still here? Hurry up and go home. Go, go back, go home, drink more fish soup , the wound will heal quickly, come on, eat more , madam, how do you find it, no, no, mom, please eat slowly , hey , waves, old money, hey, hurry up and follow the master, go and have a look. Uncle Quan, Uncle Quan, wait a minute. I'll get a coat for Bo Tao. Hey , Yunzhi, bring one for Xue'er too. It's Xue'er , Xue'er , Xue'er. Master, master, master, no, master, I finally found you. Put on your coat quickly. Come on, put it on. As an adult, I can hardly stand the cold. How can a child bear it ? Yes, Xueer, please don't let anything happen. When I went out, the old lady asked me to bring some of Xueer's clothes. Let's find her quickly so she can wear them. Maybe if we look for it separately, we will have a better chance . Well, Xueer , Xueer, Xueer, have you ever seen a little girl? No, thank you. Xueer, have you ever seen a little girl? No, you have. Have you been there? Thank you, Xueer. Have you ever seen a little girl who is so tall? Xueer , Xueer , Xueer. Where are you ? Doll, Doll , Doll , Come on, sister , sister , sister . Have you ever seen a little girl? Have you ever seen a little girl ? Have you ever seen a little girl ? Ah, I still haven't found it. Where will this child go ? Hey, Master Xue, I found this Xueer in the snow. Xueer on and on. Ah , what's going on ? It seems like someone is lying there. It 's a child. Look, can anyone be saved? He 's hopeless. He's still breathing. He's not frozen yet . Let me take a look. You 're really a child. It's Cher. Cher. Cher. Cher. Warm him up. Warm him up. Warm him up . Cher. Come on. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, look. This little hand is frozen , Xue'er. Oh , look, this child is so frozen. Ouch, ouch, ouch, poor child, Xue'er, poor child , what's going on with the waves? How could Xue'er be alone in the snow? Fortunately, my car passed by . What if? One hour later, the consequences would be disastrous. Brother Dong Ming, thank you, thank you, Xueer, Xueer, oh, it's warm, it's warm, oh, it's okay , it's okay, you see a little blood, okay, okay , okay, okay , oh , thank God , thank God, you look good. Yes, okay, okay , Xue'er , you're awake , Aunt Xue, Xue'er, you're making everyone worried to death. You're missing. Everyone is worried to death. You know, Xue'er is not me. Don't hit me, it's not me, it's not me, it's not me, it's not me, it's not me, it's not me, it's not me, it 's not me, Cher , Cher , I have to promise you that I will never hit you again . Accept me and let Xue'er recognize her ancestors and return to the clan , and be my impeccable daughter. Okay, okay, okay , Xue'er, do you hear that? You mean, Xueer, your father wants to recognize you. Come on, come on . Hey, hey, sit down. Xueer, please call me daddy . Do you know ? Dad, he is Uncle Yu. Silly boy, Uncle Yu was your father before . He was afraid that you wouldn't be able to accept it for a while , so he didn't recognize you so quickly . Call daddy, hurry up, call daddy , scream, scream, forget it . I think there is nothing I can do to force Xue'er to have a hard night. Let her have a good rest. Okay, it's okay. You can go to work. Thank you , mom. I'll take Xue'er. He took the son back to the room. Don't forget to give him some ginger soup to ward off the cold. Come on, Snow Mom. Come on, be careful. Mom, I went to Baihang first. You should have been together like this for a long time. How nice it is to have a family reunion. Ah, fortunately Xueer is safe and sound, otherwise I would never be able to forgive myself in this life. This is a big deal for our Yu family. Donglin , I thank you on behalf of Xueer. You are his savior. Old lady, you should, no, no, no. At least I want you to have a cup of tea, yes , yes, please come in. Hey, why is it raining again ? This road is always like this. Please drive slower. Master, why don't you go off the side road and turn around and go back to Lintong? Stay overnight and see how things go before we hit the road. No, no, no, we're already late. If I don't go there in a few days, people will think I'm insincere. I will never let my competitors have a chance to get in the way . Just keep driving and drive slowly. Okay, be careful . How is Mr. Quan? He 's already in the emergency room. The situation is still there. It's not good. The master keeps chanting Xue'er's name. Let Xue'er in quickly. Ah , Bo Tao . Bo Tao . Bo Tao. Bo Tao. Hello. Is this Mrs. Yu? Yes , I am. Mrs. Yu, please take a step outside. Speak well , doctor, Mrs. Yu. These two days are the key to delaying it. Otherwise , doctor, I beg you , please save my master , I beg you . Mrs. Yu, please don't rush. There is no doctor who doesn't do his best. As long as there is There is a glimmer of hope. We will never give up. But what's wrong? Please prepare yourself mentally. Dad, I am Xue'er. I'm here. What do you call me? Dad. Why are you crying? Why do you feel hurt ? Dad is regretting not recognizing you earlier. How many times did you call me dad? I'm really glad that Xue'er, Daddy, can't watch you grow up. You have to listen to Aunt Xu and take good care of yourself. No matter who bullies you, you have to endure it until you grow up and you 're not afraid of anything. You know, Daddy, Bo Tao, don't say anything. Just say something and take a good rest. You will be fine. I know Cai Ling won't make it easy for Seol. Please help me take good care of Seol. I will do it. Don't worry , I will do it. Don't worry, I will do it. Daddy, I'm sorry for you at all. Daddy , daddy, ah daddy. Dad , ah, I have to know. I 'm so anxious. Second Madam , when did your Tremella Lotus Seed Soup arrive ? You have eyes and you can't see. Am I in the mood to eat ? I'll just put it down and wait for the whole book to come back. Not yet? As for the eldest sister and Xue'er, no one was seen. I wonder why the master is still lying in the hospital. Why are you so anxious to ask the eldest wife to take Xue'er to see him ? Could it be that the master knows that he is dying soon? He has any last words to say and doesn't want to be exposed to other people. I know, bah, bah, bah, you dare to curse the master , I, I, I am talking nonsense , I should be beaten, I should be beaten, I should be beaten out, and I should be beaten out . Ah Qing is right. There must be an ulterior secret in this. Chongwei is Bo Tao's only son. Why didn't he just want to see the eldest sister and Xue'er ? Could it be that they were talking about the family property? Second Madam Second Madam Uncle Quan is back, Mom, Uncle Quan, how is Master, Master, he, he is gone , old lady , old lady, old man, old lady, old lady. Ah, old lady, old lady, old lady, old lady, old lady. I'm still there. I 'm still here. Uncle Chen, old lady, wasn't she fine when she went out? How come there was a car accident and people left? Good luck is what happens . Come on, the doctor has tried his best, but there is no way to save the day. It's so annoying. What on earth are you doing? Why do you not know if you should ask the eldest lady? It will take a day or two to arrange the funeral of the master in the hospital. He asked me to take Xue'er first. Why is the young lady coming back ? The young lady has not recognized her ancestors and returned to the clan . This is a matter of time. The master has already told the clan leader that he will wait for him to come back from Shandong to perform the worship ceremony. But he did not expect that this dead girl ordered the murderer to kill the master to death of thirst. Is it inappropriate for you to speak like that? Did I say something wrong? The master has traveled all over the country and has never been to any place. He did not come back peacefully. The moment this girl entered the door, everything was filled with smoke and peace. The master just said that he wanted him to recognize his ancestors, and then there was a car accident. This was not enough, and he ran to the hospital to see the master. Isn't it the master who was killed by him? You, the broom star, first killed your mother and now you have killed your father. If he asks you to recognize your ancestors and return to your clan, won't you be harming more people? Get out of here, get out of here , get out of here. Get lost, I want to harm more people, get lost, stop talking , stop talking, let it go, let it go , ah, ah, I'm afraid it hurts , doctor, how is my mother-in-law? The old lady is stimulated , her blood is not flowing, her energy and blood are not flowing, take good care of herself, it shouldn't be anything serious. Damn, that's good. I'll write a prescription. You guys will send someone to get the medicine. Doctor, that's great. Mom, the doctor said you were so sad that you fainted. The wave has gone. You can't make any more mistakes. Bo Tao is gone. I'm still here. What are you doing alive? Let me go with him. Mom, why do you say that? After Bo Tao leaves, there will be a tight siege. Chongwei will honor you . How old is Chongwei? My mother-in-law is dead and there is no man in the house to support us. What evil did the Yu family commit ? Haha, it wasn't the Yu family who committed the evil, it was the broom star who really shouldn't have been allowed to enter the house in the first place. And the eldest sister, if she hadn't made a fuss to let the broom star recognize his ancestor and return to the clan, Bo Tao would also be here today. Nothing will happen. Mom can't be soft-hearted this time . That kind of harm can't stay at home anymore. Don't say anything. Don't say anything. Let me think about it. Let me think about my son, my son, my son, my son. Son, ah, Botou , ah, Botou , ah, you cry , I want to cry more than you. I thought I thought that by marrying into the Yu family, I would have no worries about food and clothing for the rest of my life. I didn't expect that I would become a widow so quickly. You called me Who are you going to rely on for the rest of your life? Bo Tao Luo Tao, you are so heartless. You left like this without leaving any words. What will you do to me and my two children in the future? Second Madam, please don't be sad. Chong Wei is the master's only son . How much property does the Yu family have? I have never asked about the flour mill. I don't understand and I can't get involved. The big house wants to cover the sky with one hand . Our second house is not just for dumb people to eat Coptis chinensis. Then it will be a waste. The conscience of the eldest wife is gone . Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, brother, help me prepare the medicine, eat the sweets , you two, stop arguing , stop arguing, just be obedient , don't argue. Stop the quarrel . Your father doesn't care about me anymore. Can't you hurry up? When can you give your poor mother some refreshment? You two, stop quarreling. Grandpa is gone. Your mother is sad enough. Dad is gone. What's going on? Come back, why are you crying? Grandpa left this time and will not come back. Why is grandpa dead ? Meng Po Tang Po Tang Meng Po Tang , holy shit, hahaha, come on, we two , Xueer , you are talking about Xueer here . Daddy Xueer , I promise you that I will never hit you again. Daddy, I am Xueer . What are you thinking of me here? Daddy, why are you crying? Why do you love me ? Daddy, I really regret not recognizing you earlier. You call me Jingxun Daddy. I'm really sorry. Happy daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy, oh oh, oh, oh, it 's not my child's , oh, it's not my child's , oh, it's nothing just for the moment , master, why did you leave like this? Leave me alone, I should live this life How do you live ? Master , why did you just leave like this ? You left us alone . What should we do? What should we do? Why is my life so miserable ? Ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah ? Mother, kowtow and apologize, my head, my son, my head, my son, ah, ah, ah, mother , you have to take care , ah, ah, ah , mother , mother , ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, what are you writing? What do you think I'm writing about ? Then I'll tell you the truth. The distribution of inheritance must be fair, just and open. What's the matter ? I can't help you with the matter at my factory. Can I not worry? Rather than being helpless in the future, it's better for me to take my two children and follow Wu Tao now. Don't worry, no one will treat you badly. Old lady, please. Please go over there , I understand. Sister, dad, you came to me. Chuntao, you go down first and take Yunzhi. The lawyer called to tell me about the will . What's going on? When Bo Tao was alive, he felt that life is impermanent and everything is unpredictable. Two years ago, I asked a lawyer to make a will Why haven't I heard about a will? You're here too, Mom. I'm also from the King of Wei. You can't be too big-minded and only think about generosity. It doesn't matter if you're here. Sooner or later, you'll have to know about this . You're so troublesome as you are . Even if I am not dead, I will lose half of my life. What is written in the will? I don't know. I don't know. Do you really not know or don't want me to know? I really don't know. The will has been kept with the lawyer and no one has seen it, right? That Bo Tao Before you died, you took Xueer to the hospital to see him for the last time. Didn't he say anything? No, didn't I tell you already? Humph, sister, I'm afraid you forgot that Chongwei is Bo Tao's only son. I am his mother. I have Do you know that Cai Ling must make a fuss now? Can't we wait until Bo Tao's funeral affairs are settled? I believe Bo Tao Bo Tao never wronged anyone during his lifetime, and he will not do so after his death . I don't dare to compare myself to my mother. There is only one but... There are three wives . Although one of them left later, they still left behind revenge. No matter how many there are , your share is indispensable. Now let me be quiet for a while. Does it hurt? Doesn't it hurt ? Your father is gone. Aimee's mother is in a bad mood. She said whatever she said, don't let go. In my heart, have you forgotten what your father said to you before he died? You are still young now and have to endure everything. When you grow up, you will not be afraid of anything. Auntie, can you take me back to my mother's house? Juan, I don't want to stay there anymore. I 'm begging you. We can't hide it from him anymore at this juncture. Xue'er, listen to me. Your mother was already seriously ill and passed away when your Aunt Jin sent you to Shanghai. No , no, that's because my brother is in a bad mood. What you said so casually is that it's true that auntie was afraid that you wouldn't be able to accept it for a while and that you would be in a bad mood , so she hid it from you. I don't believe you when you said that as long as I was good, my mother would come to pick me up. My mother is not dead. My mother is not dead. Mom , don't want it. Call me Xueer, I'm sorry, I 'm sorry, it's aunt's fault , aunt shouldn't have lied to you , it's aunt's fault, can you forgive aunt, please forgive me, okay? You have no other choice now and can only live here, but you can rest assured that aunt will protect you . Let anyone hurt you, ah, ah, ah, Xueer, just cry, cry happily, and when you open your eyes tomorrow, forget all the pain and grievances . Although your father is gone , we still have to Live on strong , ah, ah , ah, ah , ah, ah, you, Bo Tao, Xue'er has accepted the fact that Ke Ren has passed away. I hope you can bless her to grow up in peace. When you were alive, it was too late for Xue'er to recognize her ancestor and return to her clan. Don't worry, I will. I will fulfill this last wish for you. Aunt Que'er will let you recognize your ancestors when she returns home. After kowtowing to your father three times, your surname will be Yu and you will be a member of our Yu family. Don't worry, Xue'er will be good and Xue'er will work hard to do the best for you. My dead mother, please take a breath . Ms. Zhang, please read it out. I, Yu Botao, have been traveling around all year round. Feeling that life is impermanent , I made a will to distribute the property as follows. All the property under my name, including the house, land and flour mill, will be divided into three parts. One share belongs to the mother, Ms. He Shumin, one share belongs to the eldest son, Xu Yun, and one share belongs to the eldest son, Chongwei . Before Chongwei was a minor, he was given to his mother, Wang Cailin, to be supervised. Once Chongwei reaches the legal age, he will be handed over to his inheritance . What kind of Chongwei is this? She is Bo Tao's only heir . Why should the property be divided into three parts? The eldest house has not given birth to a son and a half, so why should he get 1/3? After all, I am also the second wife. Why should the eldest house have one and I can't? And our family. Aimee, he is also the flesh and blood of the Yu family. Why didn't he get a dime? Don't interrupt and let the lawyer finish reading. Mom, I'm so happy. The questions raised by the second wife, Mr. Yu, have all been clearly explained here. What can Dafa Washbasin Factory have? Ms. Xu Yunzhi has made great contributions to today's scale. She deserves to receive 1/3 of the equity. As for mother's share, I know. I know what Bo Tao meant. He was afraid that I would have no support when I got old, so he gave me a share . In fact, I When I get really old, I can't take these shares with me into the coffin , so I'm going to tell the ugly story in front of you . Whoever will be filial to me in the future , I will give these 1/3 shares to the person. Do you think this is appropriate? Okay, the will has been read out . What's the problem? If there's no problem, then I'll go back and prepare to go through the property transfer procedures. It's really troublesome for you. I should take my leave now. Thank you, Lawyer Zhang . I'll send Lawyer Zhang. Hey, okay , mom. Is there anything? I want to discuss something with you. If you have something to say, sit down and talk. When Bo Tao was alive, he said that he wanted Xueer to recognize his ancestor and return to his clan. Now that he is gone , should we find a time to fulfill his wish ? Does this mother have any scruples? You haven't forgotten what I told you last time, right? Xue'er is an ominous person . Ever since he came to our Yu family, the Yu family has had no peace and even killed Bo Bao. People like Bo Bao cannot stay at home with evil spirits in their lives. That's Bo Bo's death . How can you blame Xue'er for the accident ? If it's not on him, can it be counted on me ? I've been against it since the beginning. Mom is also on the same side as me, right? Mom, um , Xue'er You probably won't regret recognizing your ancestors and returning to your clan, right? But what Cailing said is not unreasonable. It's all nonsense. Xue'er, she didn't do anything and she has to bear such a big crime . Too cruel It's too unfair. Besides, it has already been decided that Xue'er should recognize her ancestor and return to her clan . When Bo Tao was alive, he was the most trustworthy. Is it possible that it can be ignored if others are gone? Bo Tao is childish and uneasy underground. Yes , you are right. This is Bo Tao's last wish. If we want to comply with it, let Xue'er recognize her ancestor and return to her clan as you wish. Mom, if Bo Tao really had this heart, Xue'er would have recognized her ancestor and returned to her clan long ago. She still needs to wait until today. Don't take it too seriously when Bo Tao is gone . It's easy to be wrong. Bo Tao went to see Third Uncle and and returning to the clan. Both Third Uncle and Quan Shu can testify, right? Uncle, please tell me , did I go to see my third uncle? I asked my third uncle to preside over the ceremony for Xueer to recognize her ancestor and return to the clan . Mom, just listen to Yunzhi and do this . Thank you, Mom. Uncle Quan, please go down and work. Since mom agreed, I have nothing to say, but I have a condition. Just because you are not afraid of conflict does not mean that everyone is not afraid. I don't want to live with Xueer under the same roof . We are all a family. How can we not live under the same roof? Well , then I don't care. Either he moves out or our second room moves out . That's not okay . Chongwei Aimei is a descendant of our Yu family. As long as my old lady is still breathing, no one is allowed to move out . In this case, I have to wrong Xue'er. Mom, Xue'er moved away because she was helpless and came to join us . Where did you ask him to move? Isn't this ruining our good intention of recognizing him? Sister, I have promised to let Xue'er recognize her ancestors and return to the clan. Please stop pushing your limits, Caili. If you really can't tolerate Xue'er, I'm not afraid of letting Xue'er move into my room. That won't work. You are the number one expert in our flour mill. What if ? What do you have, who is in charge of things in the flour mill? Mom, do n't you think so ? What should we do ? But what should I do? In order to relieve everyone's misfortunes, I have already asked the master in the temple. The master said that as long as we don't live in the same building, we can be safe. Is that true? Well, hey, Yunzhi , let me see. Is it okay to do this this way ? Xue'er can't live in the same house, so let him move to the backyard to live with the servants. Even if it's unfair , it can only be wronged to him , okay ? Mom , and just to be careful, it's best to ask Xue'er to be fine. Don't go to the front yard , and you can't eat at the same table. Who among you wants to do things so brilliantly ? Oh, I'm not doing this for myself, I'm doing it for my mother. If my mother is charged to death, what can you bear ? Sister, let's just listen to Cai Ling on this matter . Well, as the saying goes, don't be afraid of ten thousand, just be afraid of what happens , right? That's it , ah, ah, they are both flesh and blood of the Yu family. How come some become young masters and some become young ladies? Girl, please stop saying a few words and don't add fuel to the fire. It doesn't matter . I want to live here, otherwise Aimee's mother will be unhappy, and grandma will be angry, and dad will be uneasy in heaven . I said in front of dad's grave that I will be good to me. I won't lie to him. Xueer , be good . You wait here for Ma Xu to prepare delicious food for you. Thank you, Ma Xu. I want you to move back here. Why mom? Why does Aimee's mother hate me so much? Alas, our Xue'er is so good , are you afraid that no one will like it? Well, come and give Auntie a smile, hahahaha, that's right . Xi'er is so good, Xue'er. Ah, you are now a member of our Yu family . According to the seniority, you should have the word &quot;Ai&quot; in your name like Aimee . Let Aunt think about it. Is this good? From now on, you will be called Ai Xue and we will keep the word &quot;Xue&quot;, even if it is for you. A kind of memory from my mother, okay , Ai Xue, as long as it's a name given by my aunt, I like it, haha, Xue'er, no, it's Ai Xue, you're so good, haha, aunt, you are just like my own mother , then you won't call me aunt in the future. Can you call me mom ? Yes, mom. Xueer, please call me mom again. Hey , hey, what a good boy , what a good boy. Welcome, please sit inside, mom, mom, come on . Hello , madam. What 's on the menu ? Cream cake, ice cream. I also Would you like another cup of coffee ? Okay , please wait a moment when Aimee comes back. Do you two want to eat anything else? I don't want anything else. I want to have cream cake ice cream. The cream cake ice cream here is the best. Silly Ling doesn't want anything else . Xu Bin , oh, what a coincidence, I meet you here. No wonder when I go out in the morning, magpies are chirping on my head. You are still the same as before, cheating people to death without paying for their lives . Hahahaha , these two are your young masters. And the daughter, Zhong Wei, Aimei, call me uncle. How do you call me uncle? According to seniority, you have to call me cousin uncle. When did our family have a cousin uncle? Haha, it's no wonder that your mother and I haven't seen each other for almost ten years. Why do you tell your children that these people are called Uncle Xu? Uncle Xu! Why don't you call me Zhong Wei? Uncle Xu! Oh, you are so good and so cute . Hahaha, excuse me for your ice cream. If we had a chance, these two children would have called me daddy. Are you comfortable? I am no longer the person I used to be. I don't like hearing these words. Well, well, you don't like to mention the past. I won't mention it . Oh, by the way, I'm here. I was shocked when I saw Yu Botao's attached article in the newspaper. I didn't expect that he would have become a short-lived ghost in his prime. Who do you call a short-lived ghost ? Oh, I mean, if you had married me , you wouldn't have become a widow so early. Ah, you're here again, you're mentioning what happened back then, I'm really gone. Excuse me , please use your coffee. Mom, we want to go out and play, just a little bit , a little bit. Don't run too far. Yeah, take care of your sister. I understand. Go ahead , hahahaha, Cailing, don't be angry. Do n't I care about you? To be honest, looking at your situation now, I'm really sweating for you . I 'm fine. You don't have to worry about it, right? The old lady of the Yu family is famous for her power. As we all know, the eldest wife is also famous for being smart and capable. It is not easy for you, an orphan and a widower, to fight against them . Hum, they are powerful and I am not a fuel-efficient lamp. Bo Tao has been dead for so long and I have not been defeated by a stink fight . Women are short-term. You have a firm foothold now, but in the future, can you guarantee that they will not dare to touch you? I ask you who is in power in the house now. Old lady, who is in charge of the factory, and who is managing Xu Yunzhi ? Isn't that right? No matter in the house Or do you have no real power anywhere in the factory? You live in a dream all day long. You don't even know if others have tricked you. Then what do you think I should do ? I think you need a loyal person by your side to help you. I have no relatives. Where can you find such a person ? You have forgotten me. Considering our old friendship, I can help you. How can you help me? Hey, you arranged for me to work in the factory and keep an eye on the eldest lady nearby. I will never let him do anything to us. The bad thing is, you are a pampered young man. Isn't it too unfair to come to the factory and listen to other people's orders ? Oh, isn't it all for you? I am your cousin. If I don't help you, who will help you? My cousin is right, no matter what . I have no role to interfere at home or in the factory. I have to hide my thoughts . I'll go back and discuss it with the old lady before informing you . I'll wait for your news . How can I inform you? Are you still living in Yuyuanyu? Hi, I won't hide it. You said that after my father passed away, the Xu family was left with nothing but an empty shell. All the old houses were sold , and I now live in the suburbs. My mother also passed away last year, and now I am alone. No wonder you deliberately planned to come to work at the Yu family. It turns out that is. I can't get along anymore . Oh, don't say it so harshly. No matter how you say it , when I arrive at the factory, you have an extra pair of eyes. Are you right? Cousin , why have I never heard that your mother's family has a cousin ? Mom, who are you? You know, since I married into the Yu family , my whole heart has been focused on Bo Tao and the two children. Well, I don't have much contact with relatives. Of course you don't know that I have a cousin. It's a coincidence that I was on the road today with He met me and I was thinking about Bo Tao leaving . My eldest sister is too busy alone. My cousin has been working in a bank and is a good hand in business. It would be best if he could come to our company to help. Uh- huh, but this factory Yunzhi has always been in charge of everything here, and I can't make the decision. Er, Yunzhi, what do you think? Since Bo Tao left, thanks to everyone's efforts , the company's performance has been quite stable. That means there has been no upward improvement. What if? My cousin can come and help. Not only can it reduce the burden on my eldest sister , maybe the business can also be expanded. I can bear it and let me know when it is needed. Oh, eldest sister, we have such a big factory. It is not possible for you to support it alone. Wouldn't it be nice to have one more person to help you share your worries and relieve your work ? Besides, I have seen my eldest sister working so hard over the years and I can't help you with anything, let alone how guilty I feel . In fact, the ringing ring also has a good meaning. What do you think ? Mom, it's up to you to decide. I have no objection . Chongwei is still young. Laoquan works in the factory at home and really needs a helper. Since he is a cousin , it is better to use one's own people than to use outsiders, right ? Mom, what are you doing? I agreed, thank you. Mom , what is my cousin's position ? The position can't be too low. I finally persuaded him. If the conditions are not as good as his current job, I would be really sorry. There are currently no vacancies . Let him come in and let's talk about it. It's rare for me to be so disrespectful when I have relatives come . After all, I am also a shareholder of the company. Cailing Company has the company's articles of association . I am not the only one who has the final say. We must follow the rules. Who are you lying to? You are in charge of the entire company. You can't be the master. You can do it. I think you are deliberately trying to avoid letting my cousin join the company. Why are you making excuses? You can do it. Yunzhi, just find a way to make a vacancy. What kind of vice president is she ? He wants to give me the position of vice president. I had to go through a lot of trouble to get the old lady to escort him before he reluctantly agreed . Great! You are going to die . Put me down . Put me down. Xue Ping, I'm warning you. Don't let this happen between us again. It's just an employer relationship. Don't have such wishful thinking that we can go back to the past. If I can take care of you , I can tell you to get out. As expected, it's a three-day separation. Do n't worry, I won't touch a hair on your head again. Listen, please pay attention to Xu Yunzhi's every move anytime, anywhere. He has to report to me, but he is my immediate boss. How dare I spy on him? If you are afraid, then pull him down. I don't know how you can help me if you shrink from such a trivial matter. As long as it's your business, I'll do my best and then I'll be fine. Come on , hold your hands firmly and remember to keep them horizontally and vertically . What are you doing ? There's so much water that the flowers are drowned, you little one. Who told you to come to the front yard ? Shouldn't you be in the backyard? Go back, why don't you go back to me ? I'll beat you every time I see you, you're an uncultured wild child, oh oh oh , ah, ah, oh , let 's go.