Angella Nazarian: Visionary women is a volunteer run organization And I know that every single person who is here is giving their time to one organization or another and the fact that you have nine million volunteers and you were talking about the relationship between And that it's through willingness that you or I'm understanding it. In some ways, talking about how it could be a doorway to becoming a bigger person than who you are. Sadhguru: See.. Before we come to women, first thing is visionary. What a vision means is, say everybody has desires. Desire is an incremental way of enhancing our life. Today you desire, I must have a home, tomorrow your desire, I must have this money, tomorrow, you desire something else. These are incremental ways of which are needed to do a few things. When you say I'm a visionary, what you're saying is, I have a larger desire which is not about just incremental improvement of my life. Desire is about me, always. Vision is an all-inclusive process. So this itself is a phenomenal thing, Vision is always all-inclusive. Desire is personal. Desire leads to incremental changes and improvements. Vision can transform the whole situation. (Music) (Laughter) I like music. (Laughter) So, about willingness, To be a volunteer, a volunteer means somebody who is doing something willingly, right? There's no other compulsion. There are no financial compulsions. There is no something else. You want to do something willingly. So when you're a willing participant right now, I'm asking all of you, right now, are you compelled to be here or are you here voluntarily? Audience : Voluntarily Sadhguru: Oh, thank you Because I have spoken to conscripted people also. I have spoken in the prisons, So you are here willingly. You are doing something willingly, Hello? However simple or stupid or idiotic activity it is, 'I am doing something willingly' Hello? The difference between heaven and hell is just this. You are doing something willingly, that's your heaven. You are doing something unwillingly, that's your hell. Hmm? We have already taken on attitudes I like this person, I don't like this person. Now with this person, I will do things willingly. With this person, I will do things unwillingly. This may be two people, two aspects of life, This I will do willingly, this I do unwillingly. This means, I have decided in my mind, When I hear, even on national news channels, good guys and bad guys .. it just.. Once you have this kind of thing, It's just a question of time. The moment you decide this is a good person, this is gone deep into American society. No. There are no good people and bad people. Everybody is oscillating between the two. If you create a very pleasant wonderful atmosphere, If you create an unpleasant atmosphere, Yes or no? There are joyful people and miserable people, but The moment we think we are good, we are entitled to destroy the bad, isn't it? Oh, we've been destroying a lot of people for a long time, time to stop that. Because.. human beings are in different Variety of people. Anybody who's not like you is obviously bad, isn't it? Isn't it so? Those who are not like me must be bad people. Because the basis of goodness and what you think is goodness is decided by you. No, you have no business to do that. Willing means this. I'm just willing. I'm a hundred percent yes to life. I am not yes to this one, no to this one. No, I am just yes and yes to life. If you are a hundred percent yes to life, You have become a willing life. You have become so willing that People ask me all kinds of horrible questions they're asking, I said 'My life is not about them. It's about me' It's about how I am. This is about me. It doesn't matter how they are, that's their choice. But how I am is my choice. This is my way. No matter what they do. I'm like this. Because I have not given that freedom to anybody somebody can make me angry, somebody can make me happy, somebody can make me unhappy. These privileges I kept to myself. It's time you do that too. Because if somebody else can decide what can happen within you right now, isn't this the ultimate slavery? Hmm? Isn't this? Someone else can decide what should happen within you, what happens around you of course, What happens around us is not hundred percent ours, but what happens within me must be my making, Right now, just about anybody can freak anybody They are unwilling. Volunteering means you have no will of your own. You can do whatever is needed. You know, we are a volunteer organization, this means all kinds of people .. (Laughs) Most of them are not qualified And I cannot fire them because they're volunteers. (Laughter) Angella Nazarian: It's true. Sadhguru: So people keep coming up to me on a daily basis, 'Sadhguru, I can't work with this person, I tell them 'See in this world, this is the sort of people who exist. like this, like this, like this, like this, But if you want to work with ideal people, you must go to heaven and today. But if you think, what you're doing is very significant, you must learn to work with all these horrible people. This is how the world is. If you think what you're doing is very significant, you learn to work with all kinds of people. You will see, horrible people will do wonderful things. Yes? But if you want to work with ideal people, I haven't found one yet. (Laughter) There're all kinds of ... mixed bags but (laughs) if you are willing, that you are not yes and no, yes to one, no to another, you're simply one big yes, you will find a way. Angella Nazarian: Thank you so much. I always say that the resistance to life.. (Applause)