Really heavily requested topic today. Recently two discoveries, one in Oregon, about when humans first arrived in America. never ending. Today we're going to talk mean for this highly debated question, First this video is sponsored by my lunch ready meals, that are delicious and great them. First they are fresh food, never frozen. comes straight to your door every week, so you're busy, we're all busy, they've got they're super quick, easy to make just two They are calorie conscious, every meal is some weight loss or fitness goals they're camera that's just something that more and tasty they're super tasty. They're honestly Sweet potato tofu Curry.... it's good They're made by hellofresh who sponsored they also make tasty food. I'm always it's a great option because otherwise I'll too much takeaway that's for sure. If all of code Stefan50 for 50% off your first box. Imagine 25,000 years ago. They'd be First, it's important super quickly just to so heavily debated time and time again. Uuhh well Modern humans, my ancestors, your ancestors mainly expanding to the rest of the world and it's a to try and figure out how that migration occurred, every region the debate is a little bit different. did modern humans replace neanderthals and how Southern Asia the debate is similar it really hominin, what kind of ancient human? Were these in of homo sapiens? Probably yes I would bet, but humans is really heavily debated Australia and it has not been attached to Asia in the entire upon millions of years it has been separate from you know there are koalas and stuff. So the Australia had to have involved a sea-going voyage, and it was probably the first time in human arrived in Australia, it's just it's just heavily In America the debate is kind of similar America we call Beringia that is now way below the water. to Asia there were enormous ice sheets, the and so the way Inland was was completely blocked. travel by water down the coastline of the North I'm sure. My goodness we've all seen that the *big splash, fishermen groaning* This is the lost landmass of Beringia here. You to Siberia but the way Inland was blocked by of humans in America just says so much about in the Paleolithic when it happened though is archaeological culture in America is the Clovis I've actually got a replica Clovis tool here. fluted, skooooweeeep, curved points. They're and they're found widely across North America. North America you can find Clovis points and ago. So we know for sure humans were living point definitely. We also know that modern the the genetics of a burial that contained their ancestors all across the Americas by 13,500 were here before that point and that idea is how much earlier than Clovis it's just really that came out like three weeks before these new excellent timing thank you there archaeologists of Idaho which dates to 16,000 years ago and contains Western stemmed points are the strongest signal they're at least contemporary and probably they're found across Western USA and they are a similar time. So it's sort of exactly what you in America. Check that video out I went on the absolute Banger. And yeah came out at the absolute Any early archaeological site in America just between this time and Clovis, it just it Especially if the site predates Clovis by you know, what were humans doing in that back in time you go the harder that gap is to Okay site number one. Rim Rock draw in eastern eastern Oregon out in the high desert. According dates to 18,000 years ago. This one is super The first thing to mention is that two tools able to find a picture of one of them shout out the blog archeothoughts, for getting that only were shared to the National Park Service Facebook Facebook page. This is the only decent picture Andre. What's so interesting about this is that can kind of see how they've produced this nice the edge all around to turn it into some sort of hides. So a deliberately man-made object early archaeological sites in America where are man-made or they're just interesting rocks a man-made tool. It's also made out of a rock, on there but I think it's kind of an exotic rock Again some early sites in America where people are from that location, for example I'm thinking archaeologists do argue that these tools are limestone rocks in a limestone cave they could interesting way. Humans of course are not the only is too sophisticated to be produced naturally it was carried to that location so straight from more importantly the dating the dating of the site all these tools are found alongside the remains of very long time so the moment you find tools with a a Paleolithic site for sure. It was also found 15,000 years ago. When something is found below easily dated. So everything about it just seems a man-made tool, found with extinct animals, long as the dating in everything checks out with the real deal, this is exactly what you would That date of 18,000 years old is really really here. So you can see that archaeological site just a couple of hundred kilometers further north here big basin here and the river valley goes out absolutely stunning landscape, incredible the melting of those glaciers that were in Canada. of North America when they melted the huge these massive channels into the Earth and I 18,000 years ago, which means that, you know, the that Camel would have witnessed just one of the really dramatic really spectacular and just dramatic! The location of this site is also really people traveled along the coast into North America state of Washington is now so just south of the River Valley is where you would expect to find one I made a video on in Idaho was also in a in a over here about here somewhere. Rimrock Draw Rock place, right tool, human made tool, in an easy out this is really solid evidence for people Site 2 though is a little bit harder to work out Rock shelter in central Brazil just outside say that? Apologies to all the Brazilian people archaeologists found three osteoderms, that's like an armadillo's shell is an osteoderm. I sloth though, the animals that were eating wouldn't have avocados, but archaeologists found in them I think they're about five millimeters exactly the size of hole you would expect in a You can compare it to these Paleolithic artifacts shells with small holes drilled in them to hang they just look human made. Like I know it's a looks human-made, but to see them and to see they just look human made, human made. These have no real problem with how these things were dated, to date the site that these objects were found 27,000 years old. Which in terms of human arrival fact that it is from Central Brazil is a real if humans are in Brazil Central Brazil by 27,000 across the entire continent until 13,500 years the bias that archaeologists have, site bias Me personally though, my personal opinion, it's my personal opinion. I don't think it can be most archaeological sites are found by normal building houses, building roads, building trains, Earth all the time and so if there were humans think we'd have found evidence for them regardless of what bias archaeologists may or may not have. populations, small populations of humans made it for whatever reason we're just not successful you know, maybe just the amount of people that so small that it just couldn't continue on could explain all of these anomalous finds complicating factor with this site. So these 7000 recovered from the site, I believe, thousands and only three argued to be made by humans. Many holes in them caused by rodents and caused by a hole in these osteoderms here. Female flea to insane proportions and just creates this cavity bleuargh! God I hate fleas and all bugs like you're not welcome in my house. Here you can see were not modified by humans. Some of them contain several factors that lead the archaeologists to the human-made ones are larger on average than the seemingly still produce holes that size it seems than average and these three osteoderms with the this could have been caused by them being worn rubbing clothing creating this this polishing of this one here very very smooth, the ones here's an interesting image also from Andre's I'll put the link to it and to the paper that but for some reason can't open the supplementary fleas in osteoderms, some of them are about Brazil but also they're not very polished you So I don't know what to make of it, I don't are capable of producing these holes it seems but The team behind this latest paper have done some on these sloth osteoderms by drilling into them the markings found on these osteoderms and they rodent markings like totally different you can their teeth. So they're not taking it for granted, experimentally. Just because the marks can be guarantee they are made by a drill? I don't it's a tricky one. The ones that are argued to ways to the ones produced by fleas. I don't know other osteoderms at the site did not have holes are human made but could it not just be that the soil that just caused these three to be more of it. And if it was made by humans why did they of osteoderms that were there into jewellery? Why One thing to quickly say about Santa is definitely a place where humans were a picture of the stratigraphy of the site, you lots of stone tools and things like that for years ago it's definitely a place where humans you know, then there's not any more fireplaces people that know more about it than me, These are the stone tools found in association I do feel like these look less handmade than the do feel like these are looking a little bit wrong though maybe I'm wrong let me know in the ummm... for example B here does look kind beyond my ability to critique these things So it is a site that humans for sure used, three polished pieces of bone with holes in in a holes in caused by disgusting fleas? Tricky one, So how do these two sites change our view of the question. With Rim Rock draw I would say not that in the grand scheme of things that's a that's a this pre-clovis population, founding population of leave a light trace and this site is in the region first time uhhhh doesn't really rock the boat too we have for pre-clovis sites in America. Santa of a problem. What's that 10 14,000 years before we have for the peopling of the Americas. If these mean a couple of things. First that our genetic off. You know, most geneticists put the 18,000 years ago, that sort of time frame. So that could be possible, could be wrong there's Native Americans uh, or the genetic estimate is modified these osteoderms did not leave any that does happen in pre-history. The question is to? why do we find evidence of them in Brazil and There was a long held bias in favour of Clovis but if there was a population widespread across then where are the rest of the tools? How come we thousands of of sites of these pre-clovis tools if it's a tricky one. As I say most archaeological can't explain that gap just on the bias of North America now and you might find a Clovis lot of them. You're not... probably not likely you could lots have been found. So yeah if if they relate to Modern Native Americans or not? And those questions I can't answer those questions slowly, it's always teasing us. We'll have to to be done and this is absolutely not the end of it's that much I can guarantee you this is this the video right there boop. Oh well I booped