Thank you to Climeworks Hey, smart people, Joe here. I'm in the scablands of and well, that's a waterfall behind me. It's a pretty nice waterfall, but as waterfalls go, it's Its height, the volume of they don't rank anywhere near But this waterfall does hold one important record among all waterfalls. It was created in what is to ever happen on planet Earth, Whatever you're imagining as this flood, you need to think bigger. Much, much bigger. Because the flood that created this and the entire landscape around that could happen on the (whimsical music) Across what is today a there are clues of an epic and strange land forms if The pieces of this mystery are hard to make sense of on their own, but together they tell a story that's, well, almost impossible to believe. In fact, it took decades for that these cataclysmic And in the process, this story forcing geologists to about the powerful forces and events that have shaped the Earth This discovery also set the about other violent events that have shaped not only But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Our story begins hundreds of miles to the east in a beautiful river valley where today we find the - Here we are, here it is! - Okay. What's it? - This is the Glacial Lake So, this marks the highest level that Glacial Lake Missoula So, this would've been the shore of a giant glacial-fed lake. - You guys know Kallie She hiked us up here to see this, which is why I'm so not sweaty at all. - Yeah, you gotta hike to - If Kallie and I had stood we'd have found ourselves in At the end of the last Ice sat beneath 300 meters - As far as you can see would've except for where we're standing and the tops of some of all of it would've been underwater. - These would've just been in the lake. - It was called Lake Missoula, more than 600 meters deep holding more water than Lake But, why was there a lake here? About the past million years, and retreated across during natural cycles of climate change. During the last Ice Age, an from Alaska to today's US-Canada border. And one little finger of at the end of this river valley. And that massive mountain of You need to picture from Game of Thrones than a big iceberg. We're talking 2,000 feet tall of ice, 30 miles wide at its widest, against these mountains right here, blocking the river and It was big, really big, Just like a stopper filling a bathtub, river water, rain, and behind this ice dam for centuries forming a lake covering nearly But there's just one First, a few leaks began and with the weight of of water pushing against it, one day... - Just boom! It catastrophically failed. The explosion, the sound of it, probably would've carried It drained probably in a couple of days. - It's just impossible to imagine a 2,000 foot wall of ice just like. - Just it cracks. It would've been pretty - A glacial lake twice emptied in just a couple days, and the torrent of water was equivalent to more from all the rivers on the planet. That is insane! This kind of sudden glacial Icelandic words are It's almost impossible to put into scale the unimaginable power but right behind me, we If you've ever seen those little ripples that form in the sand at the well, there's ripples at caused by the flood waters. It's exactly the same phenomenon as in that little tiny stream enlarged to the size of an entire prairie. It's mind-boggling. As thousands of cubic kilometers of water emptied out of this giant bathtub flowing more than 120 kilometers per hour, it set off the worst and that we know of in Earth's history. We think of erosion as something but these ice age floods cataclysmically reshaped the landscape in just a matter of days. Water swept the land clean of top soil, every bit of gravel, It even ripped away From above, we can see the scars branching channels and coulees They give this region its nickname, the Channeled Scablands. And there's nowhere that and power of these flood waters About 50 kilometers south we find what looks today slowly carved into the But that's not what happened here. Everything you see was by the violent flood During the floods, this was the largest five times the width of Niagara Falls. The water was more than 30 meters deep as it rushed over the edge, ripping away rock from its 120 meter face and carrying it downstream. Elsewhere, powerful flood and cataract cliffs in just days. The raging waters were powerful enough to redirect entire rivers The ancient path of this river flowed west through the Washtucna Coulee. But during the floods, the raged south, and cut this new waterfall. All across the scablands, carved potholes and The floods were so powerful they carried giant granite dropping them hundreds of kilometers from the mountains where they originated. This here puppy's a fine piece of Canadian granite. Got no place here though. These so-called erratics are scattered throughout eastern Washington today. Some even settling as But there's another mystery to solve. Okay, when we think about eroding rocks, that seems like something millions of years even. How did a flood that only lasted a couple of days do so much Well, that's cuz it's made of rock that came from millions of years before It was a flood of lava. All across this area that laid down lava 2,000 and that cooled into this. Basalt. These are giant basalt columns behind me. As that lava cooled over it contracted. And as it contracted, it broke, it fractured along these This one's super cool. You can see it's like a perfect hexagon. They're almost like beehives for giant lava eating So when that flood came through here, these columns were already prebroken, ready to be swept away. An 80 mile an hour tidal It's also a place that So, I think I've been here long enough. So thousands of years ago, a wall of ice was violently destroyed, emptying 20 million cubic kilometers of water per hour into eastern Washington, scouring and reshaping causing eons of erosion in mere days. And eventually emptying where huge amounts of sediment and Washington can still be found today. And what's crazy is this It's now thought that this and refroze as many as 25 Each time devastating the We can see evidence that Lake and emptied in the so-called around the town, each an ancient shoreline And elsewhere, striped show layers of sand and sediment laid down and flood after flood. These violent events all in human history. Archeological evidence tells us that humans had already crossed into North America by The creation stories told by the Nez Perce and Palouse Indian tribes even contain similar flood elements. - We don't have a lot of human artifacts or fossils associated with but we know we had animals and humans in the area during this time. - And then you didn't. - And-- (laughs) Well, I'm just saying that and experienced the effects of the flood and the catastrophic failure of it. And it took a lot of work, some really smart people and be like, &quot;No, no, no, And everybody's like, &quot;No, no, no, no, no. &quot;No. That's not how it happened.&quot; - When geologists J. Harlen of the Missoula floods in the 1920s, people thought he was nuts. At the time, geologists just didn't think that large catastrophic events Instead, everyone figured that were carved only by the still happening today like The old slow and steady idea now stood alongside a new where rapid and violent Earth's geology in ways that slower processes couldn't explain. And suddenly geologists as an answer to other Like the formation of our and the asteroid impact that and more. The Ice Age floods of Lake of our planet in violent but they also changed science. Our planet's shapes and in time and stone if you So listen to the earth, keep your eyes open, and stay curious. Thank you Kallie for hiking us up here. And if you want to be taken on more great prehistoric to sweat as much as I did, go check out &quot;PBS Eons&quot;. - For sure. - And thank you to Climeworks Did you know that for over a hundred years humans have been extracting releasing excess carbon dioxide into the air and Climeworks enables us by permanently removing CO2 from the air. They use a technology that removes unavoidable and historic CO2 emissions from the air. The captured CO2 is then stored by Carbfix who turns CO2 permanently where it can no longer And what's really great is are powered by renewable energy only. You can subscribe to a that will help you Just head to actnow.climeworks.com/besmart and learn more about That massive mountain (phone alarming) Sportscenter update. (laughs)