BIG TECH SALARIES: tech salaries have gone to the moon. Thanks seemingly infinite growth potential, there was It was almost like NFL recruiting or something. companies and have them enter a bidding war resulted in entry level engineers earning nearly and directors earning more than a million dollars packages often came with a bunch of stock that of a whole new demographic of multi millionaires when demand for top tier engineers went through was growing faster than real estate prices, a tantrum about how only half of his top tier changed since then and it seems that this decade finally coming to an end. With high interest rates finally having to shift their focus to maximizing layoffs, eliminating unprofitable programs, as straightforward as you might think. It's not packages that are a good amount lower than usual. engineers but it would also earn them a bunch highly respected: strong compensation and great decided to go about salary cuts in a much more seemingly pro employee policies. So, here's PREDATORY VESTING: companies are cutting compensation, we have to For example, if you're a director at Facebook, year cash. Rather, only about $320,000 is paid out nearly $900,000 is paid out in the form of stock rule like Netflix who truly do pay out million a more modest cash salary plus an insane stock And the recent pay cuts primarily have to do with the stock portion isn't exactly what it seems stock grant every month just like a cash salary. of 4 years and unlocks in regular intervals an engineer was earning an average of a $100,000 package was probably $400,000 worth of stock they might get refreshers or they might need grant. Now, all of that might seem like too many the catch is in the fine print. The industry consistent manner throughout the vesting period usually more going on than what meets the eye. extremely skewed vesting schedule. In year 1, 2 only 15% unlocks. It's not till year 3 and 4 do they do this you ask? Well, Amazon knows 2 years meaning that they likely wont even Amazon is able to pitch a $400,000 stock grant as but the average employee only ends up unlocking 5% in terms of stock comp. Coming from Amazon, backloaded stock vesting is just one trick in the vesting like is the case with Stripe. Instead of Stripe likes to hand out a new 1 year grant every comp to compound with the company. For example, and your company triples over the next 4 years, At Stripe, however, you'd still be earning role in helping the company triple. These sort throughout tech but recently, we saw Google FRONT LOADED VESTING: vesting schedule which consisted of 33% in the 4th. At first glance, it seems like this vesting employees more of the stock grant up front but overall stock grant stayed consistent, this would quite what Google is doing. Rather, they're using compensation numbers. For example, if you were you this. We'll pay you industry standard 1st year sounds about right but the catch is in the stock. first year was only a quarter of the total stock a million dollars in stock over the next 4 years. year is a third of your total stock comp. Aka, you and Google saves a full quarter million. And, vesting plan. Since then, Google has become even Their current main vesting plan is 38% in the 1st and 10% in the 4th year. Again, if you were an $1 million over 4 years, you would now "only" either. Google has an even more aggressive front you get 50% in the 1st year, 28% in the 2nd year, instead of earning a million in stock, and Google has effectively saved on nearly a full paid out. Obviously quite a bit of savings but the main benefits of stock compensation is that it But as big tech approaches maturity, the expected due to diminishing returns. For obvious reasons, company to a $1 trillion company than it is to go huge role in total comp. If you joined Google triple. This meant that the $1 million stock grant $3 million by the time it fully unlocked. If you down as much as 45% on your stock. But let's even growing by 50% over the next 2 years. This would but the same cannot be said about comp. You're now end up being $750 at the end of 4 years. In other Google today than it was just a couple of years to get the same 1st year comp. It turns out that A SALARY COLLAPSE: shadow cuts: things that aren't really apparent is that big tech has had upfront salary cuts as had an opportunity to pay less for office space directly cut salaries of remote workers by as because these cuts were in line with employees this is nonetheless massive salary savings for their hiring efforts on lower cost of living sectors. Google has also cut a bunch of employee badges to maximize productivity. I've been picking because they're the most notable example. These of the tech. And if you were to confront these a couple of key counterpoints. They might say by as much as the vesting schedule might suggest. a stock comp cut of as much as 50% but the real would probably also bring up a point about how that could help make up for any decreases in total it, it doesn't really change that fact that as it once used to be. Back then, your total you would've still gotten the same refreshers in due to remote work, and the stock would've had you put all these factors together, you'll be 50 to 70% less lucrative than it was in the workers are doing bad by any means. Instead of a now they're $1.5 to 2 million which is indeed of compensation that's a lot higher than you could that you feel bad for FAANG engineers but it does this leave big tech? Well, all of these cost so expect it to take 4-5 years for all of the operating profit per employee at these companies these companies honing in on their final push for up quite nicely across the board. But that should companies fully maturing. They've spent the last starting to slow down. So, the logical move is final form and become the next Cisco or IBM. In at all of these companies leave in droves not the work itself. Moving forward, their jobs will overhead as opposed to building the next big types move onto smaller companies where they And that is the state of big tech compensation it's already been playing out in Europe for quite