Fear is a part of our tactics. We do want Nazis to be afraid to It's our job to go out we're not going to allow you to Philadelphia make it clear, fascists are not welcomed here. Politically, I'm an and I'm an anti-fascist. And right now, I'm focusing a lot So what I'm doing here is mixing half part water and half part liquid antacid. It makes something called L.A.W. or Liquid and Antacid and Water. You use it in response We get a lot of accusations that that we're doing this because who just want to see violence happen. I consider myself to be very fed up with seeing protests I did a lot of marching and yelling in the streets And it didn't really feel like I was aware that, you know, of racists in the country, but I didn't realize that they were and actively out to cause violence. Seeing the state of the world and seeing what's going on, seeing how much danger made me want to get involved. The term Antifa is short And as many people know, so we can see anti-fascists battling standing up to Hitler's Nazis. And today, a lot of anti-fascists And really, it's at the front lines fascists and white supremacists organizing in the There's no one organization It's dozens, hundreds, thousands of all across the country, Black Bloc or Bloc is It's entirely black, simple, You don't want to get Or they're going to try try and contact your employer, beat you up on the street if So it's important they can't But it's also important that if you're trying to punch a Nazi, then you don't want police And you don't want police to be Antifa really exploded into the to the disruption of the back at UC Berkeley in February, where mass Antifa broke windows for the the university to This created a lot of debates around different tactics for and questions around free speech. Street violence is actually one of The first line of defense is just People will post online and post about the marginalized And when we find those posts, we save them and send Finding ways to disrupt their Track them down and try and make sure that they There has been an increase in since the Trump campaign started. And they've absolutely The Jeremy Christian killings, the those are not the acts of those are the acts of a Personally, I'm Jewish, I'm a trans woman, and I'm queer. And those are related. Knowing we have someone who calls white supremacists a side that has some good people, is really frightening. I do feel vulnerable and I do but that's why I'm in the Bloc. When you're a queer person or a person of color, you don't get to really I don't want to be because your life and your existence To suit up in Bloc and go out provides me a feeling of safety When we appear in the streets, we're trying to stop these proud marches where they can recruit and say it's safe to be a fascist. And we want to go out and say, &quot;no! you can't do this.&quot; We can make America great again! Antifa knew before the Trump that it was not That American Vanguard who with anti-semitic messages, we're going to be there, trying to beat people up. Anti-fascist. Anti-Anti-Capitalista-A! Anti-Anti-Capitalista! One common tactic that you'll we will have people who are that are coordinating And they'll be checking Twitter and that they can find, in order to be via encrypted messaging. It's important that we don't give The police are part of the The police serve Trump, Police violence is no more justified Who do you represent? Who do you protect? Two common tactics snatching individual people and then kettling or, like, Cops will kettle protestors, and then arrest them for Don't do it! Always be looking for side streets. Always make sure you stay moving. Stop them! Stop them! Spread out! Spread out! &lt;i&gt;Keep moving back!&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Keep moving! Stick together!&lt;/i&gt; You'll hear people shouting, and that means that you have to stay The most violent people at any -Back off! Back off! Get back! The police are the ones beating people up, pepper-spraying them. I've gone home with bruises. I've had friends go home dislodged eyeballs, brain trauma. A non-violent when it can leverage the to pressure oppressive to change what they're doing. The question is when it's fascism, when there is no room for public made by government, made by leaders, is that a viable option? Almost all people agree with Why do you support the violence and American police, and not the to stop Nazis? I actually personally really, I'm not comfortable with it at all, So for me, it's about So if that means against the people I accept that. It's... Pepe's become Richard Spencer, who coined and whose website publishes articles after an Antifa protestor there's videos of him talking about and they might need to get security, and they don't know if and how if they can't have a they can't win. We need to take very that anti-fascists aren't just they're going to And that's the point. If we go out and punch they won't appear in public. And like they themselves admit, Punch a Nazi in the face! This has been going on for a long They've been terrorizing people, intimidating people, and when they can get away with it, violently attacking people. These are felons. This is terroristic. This is fascistic. Fascists aren't people who Fascists are people who want and ethnic cleansing. Fascists are people who are willing and destroy their lives, in order to accomplish That's a fascist. Antifa are not fascists. We're fighting against black churches and killing people. That's violent. That's what the real violence is. And so, to fight against that, is... doesn't seem violent to me. That seems like meeting people When the tragedy in when Heather Heyer was murdered, the mainstream media acted like of armed Neo-Nazis was a But for those anti-fascists who've were well-aware of what Charlottesville was a really because it was the first time that there was no choice but for the in a way that made the who we are as anti-fascists. We have replaced you! They saved our lives, actually. We would have been completely if it would not for the Because the police have pulled back, and just allowing fellow citizens to go at each other. There was at least about a where anti-fascists were considered A lot of my friends are involved in And so, I don't have to But from my family, absolutely. I can't get into the details and I do lead a double life. It makes it hard to stay close to because there are so many that I can't tell people about. &quot;Where were you last week?&quot; It means that you end up where you can't always be Fuck white supremacy! My community is other These are the people who some of my toughest struggles. And so, I'm able to feel There's a feeling of obligation and doing what's necessary, in order to make the world little After we got the Trump they haven't come back This works. The Trump election has invigorated and empowered white but it's also invigorated We are on the cusp of some change. And what change that is, depends on We are the people! The mighty, mighty people!