JOAQUIN PHOENIX The Phoenix. A mythical creature that rises from its own able to pull off with surprising regularity. They had fled their home, escaped the draft, without a single peso to their name. They fought with the press, received awards, The Bottoms left a religious cult and conquered name. They named themselves after a fiery bird that At the center of this story is the shy younger fan, a rapper, and of course, the Oscar-winning INTRO the capital of world cinema and long before Let's talk about his parents first. Arlyn Dunetz grew up in a typical Jewish family Her ancestors had emigrated from Hungary and more prosperous, albeit tedious, life awaited No sooner had Arlyn graduated from high school and given a job as a secretary in a local of others by the interior of its lobby. Well it only took a couple of months for that of everyday life as an exemplary wife. The spirit of defiance smoldered in the young was a wind fanning the flame. And then one day, perhaps on an unremarkable home forever. The streets were teeming with thousands of Behind her were the evening parties, a nine-to-five to California, a place that was ever eager The young woman hitchhiked her way across first love. When John Bottom stopped to pick Arlyn up it was his future wife climbing into his pickup Like his passenger, John was running from a failed marriage, and the military draft. Together they hid from their memories along Life was full of beaches, sun, marijuana, John and Arlyn got married in one of these Two years later, on the floor of a small shack huddled, their first child, River, was born. The Bottoms were travelling all over America They worked on farms in California, roamed of missionaries in Texas. These young people didn't use drugs at all religious group. Arlyn and John found inner freedom and peace of years would start calling himself Moses In early 1973 they joined "The Children In a gated ranch commune called the "Texas the newest member of the Bottom family. She was named after the rainy day on which Young River was attending what was the equivalent the Final Judgment, the burning of sinners, American children who disobeyed Moses David. During this period, the child's parents ladder of the community, and in 1974, John The title was grandiose, but in reality, it South America at their own expense and spread there in search of more followers and money. Although the move was difficult, the Bottoms They left the commune before Berg became a Over the next twenty years, his followers abuse towards women and children, and Moses to life in prison. However, this doesn't stop "The Children new members into their ranks. But back to the Bottoms. On the way to Venezuela, they stopped in Puerto 28, 1974. JOAQUIN PHOENIX he sees me and says, "Who did this harelip That's the best operation I've ever seen". Mom said, "No one. He wasn't born with a harelip." I was just born with the scar. The birth of Joaquin anchored the family to Poverty existed side by side with stunning his days watching his father. John Bottom eked out a living as a gardener or cleaning their pools. Upon finally reaching Caracas, the family A second daughter was born and was given the John, Arlyn, River, Rain, Joaquin, and Liberty no water or amenities. According to the precepts of The Children every weekend the young Bottoms would play The eldest son had learned a couple of chords the boy his first guitar. The fair-haired ninos quickly became famous The trip to another continent dragged on, frightening and repulsive. Rumors about David Berg's sexual perversion Police had been searching for him for the to believe that the charges against him were In 1978, Arlyn and John finally left The Children A fishing boat bound for Florida. The captain provided the Bottoms with a tiny would perform for the crew every night. Joaquin remembered the good-natured sailors, seeing the sailors hard at work just once life at sea" from his list of aspirations. One day, he ran out on deck as the fishermen Joaquin looked on in horror as the suffocating blows against the wall. JOAQUIN PHOENIX what happens to 'food' before it gets And we decided never again to eat anything At the end of the year, the ship docked off on their native land as vegetarians. Finally, back in the US, the family went to and son-in-law for the first time. Joseph and Marjorie Dunetz had retired and housed the Bottom family - which gained On December 10, 1978, Summer Joy Phoenix was After a couple of months, John got a job as the same musician who had given River his He settled the Bottoms in the steward's house For the ever-roaming family, a couple of bedrooms, The children went to an ordinary school for their father take care of the plants. But alas, the fairytale didn't last long. John injured his back and lost his job, once gifted children. That following year, River, Rain, Joaquin, the state of Florida. The quartet's charm was put on the assembly to outgrow the southern state. It was during this time that they changed Just as they had done ten years before, they The wandering, cults, and poverty went up happy future emerged. Arlyn collected newspaper clippings about actress Penny Marshall. The portfolio impressed several Paramount to meet and talk more, while also emphasizing the long trip. The Phoenixes ignored the latter sentiment, into a broken-down Volkswagen van, and set ARLYN PHOENIX the world meeting in Los Angeles was underwhelming. The dream factory gave the Phoenixes the typical only the staunchest of optimists could find The Bottoms had run out of money on their wasn't going fill the bellies of their five But Arlyn still believed. She tapped into the skills of her youth and producer Joel Thurm. Mrs. Phoenix had a plan: infiltrate the Hollywood set her children up for success. Perhaps too simple of a plan, but it worked. After a series of meaningful handshakes, Arlyn office. The "legendary" Iris Burton, as she called the most influential people in the film industry. Every talented child who has appeared in commercials with Burton. Over a thirty-year career, she had introduced Olsen sisters, and Josh Hartnett. Iris liked the Phoenix clan too. Arlyn was equally as pleased at their meeting. Up until that point, rare negotiations with of giving River a shot, but Iris promised in Hollywood. She wasn't even bothered by the family's advertising meat products, which ruled out for her new clients. The family signed a deal with Iris, but after managed to set up a couple of auditions. The Phoenixes received their first performing and city holidays. In one of his rare auditions, River took a series called "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers". The musical drama told the story of a restless This remake of a classic musical was broadcast was enough to reveal the potential of the One week after airing the pilot episode, the mail. All letters for River. His parents forced him to personally respond River's success opened the doors for younger While shooting the show's Christmas episode, and instead of setting up a casting call, day of filming, were invited to appear on In the end credits, Joaquin was credited as The boy didn't like that he was the only so-called "boring name", so he came up stick with him for the next fifteen years. His TV appearance helped Leaf land a couple brother again. They starred together in an ABC educational Later roles in "The Fall Guy", "Hill helped Leaf adapt to the acting profession He shared screen time with his sister, Summer, They played the niece and nephew of Jessica middle of an amusement park. When the episode aired, the whole family laughed burger. Of course, the burger was just a prop; the Nineteen eighty-six was a landmark year for River was on the covers of magazines thanks Mosquito Coast". Rain changed her name to Rainbow and made role in a real movie. "SpaceCamp" tells about a group of boys accidentally launch themselves into orbit. Director Harry Winer approached Iris Burton believe that he was obsessed with "Star During filming, Phoenix was taken under the on any task he was given on-screen. The only exception was the zero-gravity scene, the air on a cable. HARRY WINER are counting money, the production manager talk to this sweet boy to try to convince feet in the air and have some fun with it time, you know. But every time I spoke to him, he would just It's just so happened that River turned very moment that River came over. ...River stands up, he's done having a little at me with some sense of determination, I He nods, and boom, he's lifted forty feet we need and want, and delivers it beautifully "SpaceCamp" turned out to be a sweet, combination for a family hit. However, the film met a crushing defeat at The film hit the big screen just five months As film critic Roger Ebbert said, it wasn't a group of kids who accidentally go into orbit It was no longer appropriate. The following year, Leaf landed another lead It was a peace-loving tale of three teenagers War. The film poked fun of the prejudice and paranoia Critics were impressed with the film and the The media predicted a bright career ahead his recent success with that of "Stand By During this time, River had already starred the role of young Indiana Jones in the third saga. The Phoenixes gradually became all the rage the head of the family. John believed that filming had a negative 1987, he moved the family away from Los Angeles. He purchased a modest estate in Florida, where Now Leaf had to travel across the country It didn't happen often. Over the course of two years, he only features "Secret Witness", but in 1989, Leaf wins As soon as he enters the frame, it's obvious developing. Phoenix reveals new facets of his craft in The scene of the phone conversation is carried up with tears as he does so. It was clear that Leaf felt much more at home cutie. His costars also helped him. Aside from Wiest, the film features newcomers had been dating River for a couple of years. Comedy masters Steve Martin and Rick Moranis "Parenthood" was another notch on director million dollars at the box office. The film's success and frequent mentions marked the beginning of a meteoric rise in The young man never expected that playing Leaf returned to Florida, hoping that scripts but all he got were more mediocre screenplays After a year of Phoenix tossing them straight altogether. During this time, John and Arlyn had begun The father moved to Costa Rica, where River Leaf went with John, but after a couple of During his forays into the capital of world Phoenix's agent later recalled how the young and lost to Leo DiCaprio on auditions for Then he and his older brother lost the leading to Leonardo and Johnny Depp. River was also having a streak of bad luck. After "My Own Private Idaho", the most His next film would capture a shadow of his Producers bombarded Iris Burton with complaints He was burning through takes and had seemingly Box office performance of the melodrama "The critiques of River. His career was plummeting, but his agents with a Vampire" as a lifeboat. A film with Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt would to reach new heights in his career. But then...then he went to a nightclub called to the dangers of drugs. On October 30, 1993, Leaf and Rain came to JOAQUIN PHOENIX he was just playing the guitar. He wanted to show me a new song, wanted to I was the one who wanted to go out and he taken care of." No one knows for sure what happened at the First responders found the actor unconscious River died of an overdose at the hospital. The press made the tragic event even worse. First, the paparazzi published a photo of The next morning, the news stations seemed JOAQUIN PHOENIX the world. The press has been heartless. It's entertainment to them. I had reporters in my face asking questions you call 911?' Heartless bastards! How do they even begin to know how I felt ... This 911 call was sent into the radio It was terrible. They photographed him in his coffin. And these hysterical girls who were at the Repulsive. It was a long time before I overcame this The Phoenix family did the only thing they They disappeared from the media's radar for more than a year. It wasn't until 1995 that Joaquin came back He was responding to an invitation from Gus Four years prior, the director had filmed leading role. Later, he called on Rain Phoenix to perform And now, he was setting out to resurrect Joaquin's "To Die For". Producers proposed Matt Damon for a leading To avoid rumors about favoritism or personal held open auditions and allowed his colleagues Joaquin's costars were Matt Dillon, Casey In the novel, the heroine jokes that if a wanted to be played by Tom Cruise's wife. (Video excerpt with Joaquin and Kidman) wife. The actress and the director were both worried He would verbally berate himself between takes In one interview, Iris Burton 's assistant a lower self-esteem. Nevertheless, Joaquin was given both the first with Kidman. His interaction with Casey Affleck is also The film gave Joaquin a best friend, and eight married Summer Phoenix. "To Die For" premiered in October of 1995, credits for the first time. The actor had abandoned his pseudonym as a an adult. After the failure of his "Cowgirls" film, basking in the rave reviews of the media along Kidman's performance received the highest lustful character of Joaquin. As had happened six years earlier, Iris Burton was cast as a vulnerable teen junky. The actor brushed the offers aside without He was just as afraid of being typecast as the set of SpaceCamp. So for the next year and a half, Joaquin didn't But it wasn't for lack of offers. Director Paul Thomas Anderson saw him as a rejected a role in "Boogie Nights", but the raunchy movie. Iris Burton was quite protective of Phoenix's porn actor was beneath him. For that same reason, he also didn't star Joaquin's potential to play a dramatic role saw him more as a hero-lover. She found her pupil a romantic role in the This cinematic excursion into small-town 1950s of unexpected plot twists, and to Phoenix life. Joaquin and Liv Tyler's romance began on set Together, the couple left for Italy, where By becoming the face of the Prada collection, ploy. Firstly, it enabled him to shed the image since his role in "To Die For". Secondly, the media finally stopped comparing Joaquin was no longer referred to as the younger Now he was one half of one of Hollywood's At the same time, he landed a minor role in worked with Sean Penn and Oliver Stone. In the crime-comedy "Clay Pigeons", the Even though the actor liked the script, he effectively transfer a deadly combination but after meeting David Dobkin for the first The debutant director had earned fame as a Tupac, Coolio, and Elton John. This unique story full of twists and creepy His chemistry with Vince Vaughn gave the film The actors had come together because of financial film. On the very first week, Joaquin's trailer And so, for the rest of the days on set, he Phoenix was remembered by the film crew not defender of nature. In one fishing scene, he refused to hook a Before that, on a shoot for Prada, he wouldn't Perhaps every producer or director who has tale to tell. So, when Dobkin told Joaquin about his next Phoenix replied that he would only do it if While filming "Clay Pigeons", Phoenix a remake of the 1989 French thriller "Force In the film, the main characters face a difficult Their friend has been detained for drug possession together. If they all return and stand trial, they will If only one returns, then each person gets will be executed. Joaquin was eager to join the project. First of all, the character of Lewis was very secondly, the main character of "Return Vince Vaughn. It was the bond between the actors that convinced The director didn't yet know that the eccentric film itself. Joaquin arrived for shooting having lost over him to. He also decided not to play a balanced character, situation. Instead of delivering the brave and wise lines The performance put the audience behind bars, JOSEPH RUBEN At one point he discussed getting a couple couple of days and roughing him up in the went through in Malaysia. But I was l like, "We don't need to do I ain't going to put you through that. "Return to Paradise" brought Joaquin another years since returning to Hollywood, he never Studios give plenty of praise to independent poster doesn't get the public's attention, If you want to work on meaningful projects, films as well. It was for this reason that Phoenix's agents Schumacher's neo-noir thriller "8mm" (eight-millimeter). Initially, the director wanted to make a cheap in the lead roles, but the latter refused, yet taken seriously by studios. Joel then offered the role to Nicolas Cage. The same Cage who had conquered the box office, Nicholas agreed, and suddenly the film was budget. In the company of stars like Cage, Gandolfini, age of their careers, Phoenix stood out like His role as an eccentric mysterious punk combined a sort of noir version of Starsky and Hutch, The film brought in just under a hundred million name on a poster. But his breakthrough performance wouldn't from one site to another. The actor had agreed to star in the crime Aspiring director James Gray made him fall epicenter of a corruption scheme. James wrote the screenplay based on true events Joaquin had become obsessed with the role film finally received funding. It was at this time that Phoenix had his first tactics. His decision to turn down a role in "Boogie The film had captivated critics and made Mark Mark also liked the script for "The Yards" Agents took this opportunity to show the actor They bid on behalf of their clients for the The director ultimately approved Wahlberg, CHRIS SNYDER to show Mark Wahlberg how powerful they could In fact, Gray rewrote the script so that Joaquin's the main character. Joaquin was also a great fit for the role No matter how hard Phoenix tried to avoid The truth was, Phoenix was just too good at In "The Yards", he fully embodied the worse as he tries to solve them. Joaquin and Mark were joined by James Caan, The latter got a real taste of Phoenix's In the film's climactic scenes, he didn't shoved the actress. In his commitment to realism, Joaquin also The actors beat each other for two takes filmed The next day, they arrived on set so bruised in a grade school play. To get into character for an emotional scene, off-camera. Well, the media found out about this and began He replied that it was just one of a hundred a scene, because particularly difficult sequences the character's emotions. The freedom to improvise and make collective he wanted. Unfortunately, his vision didn't satisfy He thought the film was too gloomy and depressing. He demanded that the final act be reshot and Despite the fact that the director complied the film's release for two years and then 2000. As a result, "8mm" was postponed, and to demonstrate his power. Movie-goers had forgotten what Joaquin looked From the moment the script for "Gladiator" Snyder, agents went to war for the role of Ridley Scott was a fan of Joaquin's work. He had been impressed after seeing him in Scott Brothers's company. Unfortunately, the director's approval wasn't He hounded the studio for permission to film By the 1950s, audiences had become bored with shy away from investing in similar projects. The only thing that made studios consider to world cinema. They hadn't believed in "Alien" or "Blade be cult classics. On the other hand, every Ridley Scott project failure. The studio ultimately forked out the money that they have total creative control. Joaquin found himself on the battlefield with The bosses weren't impressed with Phoenix's Not that they couldn't see Phoenix as the had already talked them into bringing Russell If they were to add Joaquin as well, then poster of the biggest blockbuster of the year. DreamWorks was leaning towards Jude Law, but without an audition. Finding themselves in a stalemate, the studio's side. Perhaps out of a sense of nostalgia towards Iris Burton, who had been supplying talented years. Thus, Joaquin Phoenix was approved for the The signing of the contract coincided with Joaquin's face wound up on the front pages Luckily, his departure for the filming location hungry paparazzi. After arriving on the island, he got to witness On the first day of filming, the director But there was nothing simple about them. Gigantic statues towered before Joaquin. People were riding by on camels, and all around dressed in ceremonial Roman armor. Obviously, Phoenix was a little intimidated He even asked Russell Crowe to make fun of The gladiator wasn't a fan of these methods. Russell later admitted that the only way he sophisticated of acting techniques. Crowe and Richard Harris, who played Commodus' wrapped for the day and got him drunk until Phoenix was no longer shy in front of his On the contrary, enhanced each take with his ("Am I not merciful?") This scream wasn't written in the script In the scene where Marcus Aurelius is murdered, much that he fainted as soon as Scott shouted Joaquin also wanted to intensify the changes He envisioned his character taking the throne a flabby, jaded emperor. JOAQUIN PHOENIX in waiting and then become more dishevelled appearance, because you leave that story for So I put on some weight there. The only problem was, Phoenix forgot to let While reviewing footage, Scott pointed out be gaining weight. The assistant went to the actor's trailer you're fat." Phoenix didn't eat for over a week after He didn't want to attract too much attention difficult for the costume designers by demanding be replaced with synthetic material. Phoenix's inner circle knew that a role in just one project a year often isn't enough. Past experience suggested that the award is Robin Williams put in a couple years' worth for "Good Will Hunting". Kevin Spacey celebrating his victory for "The in the thriller, "Seven" that same year. Based on this logic, agents were in search They found one in the biographical drama, Once again, Phoenix found himself up against selected thanks to Ridley Scott. The director released him from filming in Joaquin flew into London, auditioned, and day. A couple of weeks later, he found out he had Upon completion of his work on "Gladiator", project. His first appearance on set captivated screenwriter DOUG WRIGHT and he had on these really intense aviator was like, "Hey dude". Then he walked onto the sound stage, and the come off and someone runs a comb through his priest. It was the most transformative moment - it Joaquin is someone who could slide by you he becomes thirty feet tall. Phoenix was playing the most difficult character An impressive achievement, considering that Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet and Michael Caine. The multi-layered Abbe du Coulmier runs the The character's true feelings are hidden the viewer forget about his secret desires. The media declares that Joaquin is pursuing Three supporting roles. Three contenders for Hollywood's biggest Indeed, in May of 2000, Gladiator is released. Worldwide recognition, commercial success in no small part to October reviews of "The of praise. In January 2001, just before the academy awards of compliments from critics. Joaquin is nominated for his role as Commodus and prepare an acceptance speech. Alas, he loses to Benicio Del Toro, but now an A-list actor. Or so it seems. In reality, Joaquin was now paying the price with no breaks. His acting marathon had completely exhausted JOAQUIN PHOENIX I went straight home to my mom's. I sat in the bed for, like, six weeks and A year before he applauded Benicio Del Toro a press tour, where he gave interviews and We're used to Hollywood actors making journalists Phoenix's publicity seemed to be harming his His responses were scattered and he seemed His colleagues were no help either. For example, Ridley Scott once described Joaquin happens to them on screen. Doug Wright has hinted at Joaquin's instability, introduced him as a guy who no one would believe Fans were rather amused by his eccentric nature, Box office sales depend on successful advertising, long lines at the ticket booth. Joaquin's life was a roller coaster, with the best film of the year, followed by a steep or fourth choice for a role. He got close to being cast in "Pearl Harbor" Hartnett, another product of Iris Burton. Then Phoenix was considered for the role of was a deterrent to the producers of the blockbuster. The actor's next project was the inexpensive Although, describing the film's comedy as justice. It's actually an immoral, violent, and offensive The U.S. Army condemned the movie before the Filming took place at a military base in Germany Germans. The film is an adaptation of a novel by Robert who turns his army service into an illicit Scenes featuring Joaquin and Ed Harris mimicked with some added charm from Michael Pena and The film premiered at the Toronto Film Festival This date should speak volumes about the movie's Just three days later, America would have the military and patriotism. Because of the tragedy, the film's release years, but even that buffer wasn't enough In addition to provocations at press conferences, A smiling Joaquin is shown posing in front with the slogan "Steal All That You Can The phrase, which was considered a PR stunt, but critics still praised the acting. "Buffalo Soldiers" is the last project Phoenix considered her a member of the family. Burton had visited their Florida home and However, Iris's tiny agency, which helped teens, couldn't handle the needs of the rising As further confirmation of this fact, as soon talent agency, CAA, he landed the highest For his participation in the thriller "Signs" to pay one million dollars. At that time, producers spared no expense After "The Sixth Sense" and "Unbreakable", next film was guaranteed to be a box office The film kept audiences in a state of suspense by Joaquin and Mel Gibson shining a new light The famous birthday party scene, considered of cinema, packs a stronger punch thanks to The director appreciated his talent and immediately At the same time, Joaquin was only cast in diagnosed with a brain tumor shortly before Fortunately, it was benign. While Phoenix was preparing for his upcoming mysterious, if not strange, romance-drama Young Danish director Thomas Vinterberg shot film. Alas, despite the Hollywood stars and sophisticated It will take another fifteen years, a collaboration before they finally see his talent. In addition to "It's All About Love", film "Brother Bear" was also released. Joaquin voiced the main character over the the script had so many lines, but because the animation was rendered and made available. "Brother Bear" did not make the list of It failed at the box office and received a for the design, while the plot was panned. In the fall of that year, Joaquin went to The director insisted that the cast members living. The group of Hollywood superstars learned logs and thresh corn. This approach united the group and enhanced reveled in. Over three hundred people constructed the film. All of the costumes were made from available would have done. In pursuit of external ideals, the director A working version of the text hit the internet Thousands of Shyamalan fans were horrified dialogue. The wave of criticism hit so hard that the However, he left the plot twist unaltered. Upon its release, "The Village" was met Nevertheless, the film was a hit at the box acting fee. Another project that Phoenix had to physically He attended the Baltimore Fire Academy for fire department. The other firemen initially nicknamed him but Joaquin was proactive and participated After being almost literally baptized by fire, accepted him as an honorary member of the After experiencing real fires, the movie's actor. Although this is perhaps more to the credit During the planning phase, the film's creators Fire was deemed too unpredictable to simulate full-fledged character in the story. The special effects terrified the city of Flames were rising from out on the outskirts area to immediately dial 9-1-1. The emergency line received so many calls went live on several radio stations to make their fears at ease. Director Jay Russell successfully tackled overcooked the dramatic part of the narrative sentimentality. The media denounced the attempt to play on Joaquin received his fair share of criticism, He wasn't liked by critics as the heroic The only positive reviews went to the special a breath of fresh air in an otherwise stifling The sixty-million dollar project was a box Phoenix's agents were just glad that 2004 client's career, as the failure was quickly Depicting the story of the Rwandan genocide to the horrors that the global community was While the UN was gaining influence in the from its setbacks in Somalia, Rwanda was quietly The Tutsi genocide had claimed the lives of to notice. Director and screenwriter Terry George portrays Rusesabagina, a hotel manager who saved more The film, with its documentary-like accuracy terror of it all. In addition some of the sequences being filmed strove for authenticity. Don Cheadle spent weeks with Rusesabagina, and Joaquin spoke to cameramen who had covered JOAQUIN PHOENIX insightful. It was difficult hearing their stories and to tell the stories, but we learned a lot These cameramen had covered thirty wars, but like Rwandan genocide. Joaquin's character personifies an outsider's He sees the absurdity of the division between ...and tells Paul about the apathy of the The film shined a light on the tragedy and The President of Rwanda at the time accused regime. Paul Kagame claims that Paul had extorted Of course, these statements were only made government. In 2020, he was arrested and accused of financing Paul refuses to assist in the investigation rights. But let's go back on track. Even before Joaquin was cast in "Hotel Rwanda", the role of a lifetime. "Gladiator" fans Johnny and June Cash of months later the actor received the script Like the country music legend, director James portrayal of Commodus and saw him as the perfect At the same time, the director and actor agreed between his and his character's lives, although JOAQUIN PHOENIX is and they think that's what it is. But it's not. My experience is very different from John's. I think there's a vast difference with your ten years old to when you're eighteen. Johnny and June personally approved the candidates Reese Witherspoon was chosen to be Joaquin's There was just one problem: neither of them To help the actors fit the part, Phoenix and guitarist T-Bone Burnett. For more than six months under his guidance, and mastered the guitar and autoharp. It was an extremely difficult time, full of However, at the very beginning of their journey, would star in the film together. If one of them was replaced, the other would Additionally, Mangold advised the actors not own interpretation of them. As a result, every musical number in the film a live audience. Mangold gave the actors complete creative While performing songs, they based their actions Johnny's stare and June's response are improvised. Joaquin later recalled that he was shocked as hard as he could to get her to lose control. Another unscripted scene is Cash's emotional of the wall and wrecks the dressing room. Joaquin was so committed to the role that musical achievements, but also his bad habits. The actor spent months drinking a bottle of This radical acting method led him to voluntarily JOAQUIN PHOENIX didn't serve booze. You fall into routines. But I didn't want to go out and feel I have to a restaurant. Johnny and June Cash passed away before the The director decided to pay them a special On the thirty-eighth anniversary of Cash's shown to the inmates of Folsom Prison in the The film won over audiences beyond the correctional Revenue from ticket sales nearly reached two film picking up awards and nominations along Joaquin lost the award for Best Actor to Philip victory. The new surge in fame didn't pay dividends Instead, he relived his experience with "Gladiator", the awards ceremony. During this break, the documentary "Earthlings" the screens, with him as narrator. This shocking and horrifying story of animal career that he says could change the planet. The lives of everyone who has seen "Earthlings" After watching the documentary, tens of thousands joined the fight for animal rights. However, the vegan community denounced the behind the film's use of intimidation over Joaquin returned to the big screen in the The action thriller "We Own the Night", collaboration between Phoenix and Mark Wahlberg years earlier. The director takes a typical plot about a embellishes it with an original selection The dynamic between the two main characters, Mendes, and the inclusion of Russian actors Russian characters, are what make the film It combines predictable plot developments For example, the car chase scene. Gray reviewed hundreds of films and found The viewer watches the pursuit from a first-person car crashes barely noticeable. Like Joaquin's character, the audience feels attention to them. The director also took advantage of the chemistry He wrote the characters specifically for the Although this time they did it without hurting Instead, Joaquin's true on-set victim was To get into character for their scenes together, costar. ROBERT DUVALL I think it was a device they had to get me It kinda worked in a way. The fact that James Gray no longer worked the rights to the final cut. Despite the film's lackluster reviews criticizing to cheap film noir of the fifties, it paid Joaquin continued his streak of reunions in of "Hotel Rwanda". In &quot;Reservation Road", the director tells as horrifying as that of the government. Phoenix and Mark Ruffalo play two fathers One is looking for his son's killer, while to the murder. George filmed the heartbreaking scenes simultaneously This allowed the actors to perform as they scene, even if the shot didn't make the Jennifer Connelly would go on to call this critics would write entire newspaper columns characters. Unfortunately, it turned out to be the only They contrast the masterful acting with a that undermine the viewer's ability to believe The film performs disastrously at the box of a decade of theatrical film releases. Phoenix was also approaching an extended career again team up with James Gray. In "Two Lovers", breakdancing takes the The director experiments with a new genre exceeds his wildest expectations. In a love triangle with the characters of portrays a quivering and vulnerable introvert. Scenes with Isabella Rossellini, who plays in their own right. The film will be called the best of Phoenix's ...but that will be forgotten on the day of On the red carpet, Joaquin will announce that ...to begin his career as a rapper.