Kirk Sorensen, Chief Yellow Creek Nuclear Site Tishomingo County. So a little bit about our We're based in We were incorporated in 2011. I'm the president and I'm also the founder. My background is at Georgia Tech, That's what I worked there for 10 years on While I was there, molten salt reactor technology and why we're why we think y'all might While I was at NASA, more education in nuclear in nuclear engineering from and then left I worked for Teledyne as their chief and incubated Flibe Energy I'm so grateful to them. I have so much to tell you but I'm cognizant of and everybody's So I'll try to move but I'll also encourage you might have that that I could then So please don't Natural gas prices but really got low in We had a little of the Russian but they have stabilized again. Here's uranium prices and they were really We thought we were going to Mr. Hunnewell We called it the and prices rose But then something happened. We backed off that But then what really the 2010s was Japan and they stopped and they stopped buying And so we got a of really affordable because we were buying, and it created what now What's changed now 2020 onward, there was but again with the of Ukraine, Now uranium prices and price of separative work And what this has meant, you were able to imagine almost and its levelized cost of fuel, which is just the fuel that almost always beat or Henry Hub natural gas. You almost couldn't You might have but you were going Okay, so here we Look what's happened. With the tripling and the quadrupling of now we've gone from a to a case where What we're seeing this is in a range of all the way from natural, Almost everything in terms of enriched uranium, from natural uranium is coming in higher Now, you know, but this is not We would like to be in a place where nuclear Plants aren't cheap, Now the fuel's not even cheap, and the plants So we've got a problem, And this leads to as far as, what should You know, what's the If I'm looking at a and all of them look bad, And this is where it is time to start thinking And I'm gonna tell you about some really things that you probably that I'm convinced The heart of these is the use Thorium is about three times in the world, it is found and uranium is found But by using thorium, to use nuclear fuel at almost that we currently use uranium. It is not 200%. We also have the existing hazardous waste from in the process of moving through thorium and through about these which are a kind of Now to break any power plant and certainly any nuclear you've got a thing that you got a thing that to some other fluid, and then you got a thing into electricity and I mean, this is a coal plant, this is a nuclear plant, This is all kinds of things. And choosing what that in the success of what There are four There's the water, there's salt, I can't think of too many things that don't fall in this category, but these are What you'd really like that could achieve while also operating You want high temperatures because that's going The higher you can the more of that energy I mean, this is just You'd also like low pressure because that means you're big, heavy pressure vessels. Unfortunately, what as a primary coolant, under very high pressure, and it doesn't really get It's quite limited. Now, metal can go to but still limited It can go low pressure Gas can go to very but it also has to operate Salt is the only that's going to go to while still operating and that's the really There's another and that that I'm and that's its It sounds complicated, but this is just how much and this is your of how big is your power plant. If you're dealing that just can't suck you're going to lots and lots of it, and unfortunately, Gas takes a lot of material Water's great on this. Water can drink up lots This salt that FLiBe salt, This is where our company So, what is FLiBe? This is pretty darn close, Here's a picture of FLiBe. FLiBe is lithium fluoride two fluoride salts put The fancy name for this So, you could make the argument those are actually And you would not be incorrect. I am named Kirk too, That's what melted FLiBe looks When you melt it, That FLiBe happens of dissolved a little bit of uranium of bluish greenish So, chemists at Oak a million years ago this complicated that we can say: FLiBe. So, that's where we So, they actually went and made out of FLiBe fuel using a structural alloy. And this is a picture of it It was called the and it ran successfully And they operated this reactor in a state of And here's why I should be really Because when you run a reactor in a state of it means there's There's nothing to go wrong. There's no reaction to happen. There's no pressure release. There's nothing And that, as an engineer, is just the way You want the marble to be You don't want some So, we figured out how We still don't run reactors Unfortunately, today, our do not operate this way. We can't operate them this way. But they figured out how By operating with liquid fuel, you have the potential to that we can't do And that is, if everybody if the Rapture happens the reactor is kept operating by circulating that FLiBe which is represented And just like you we keep the reactor with a plug of frozen salt, and then we We use a fan or some So, the idea is then that plug's gonna melt, and that fuel's just going a drain tank, we call it, where it will just be passively So, this is the where the fuel can into an emergency without any intervention. As long as gravity's around, And even in a case of it's just not gonna take place. So, very, very safe. I'd love to tell you I invented but this was all invented I will tell you I've been in waking people and helping them realize Within the reactor, It was earlier talked about on the reactor vessel, but there are ways to go so as to make sure that you're between the busy part of and the reactor vessel. And this is going to for a long time This is an artist's image our reactor And within that four 250 megawatt electric units. So, altogether, that of generation capacity. And you can see these In fact, there's still even in that building Key to the success of this is And I have a video that I was mentioning, molten-salt reactor concepts and we want to run them I mentioned just a moment ago that they're the fuel salt, the FLiBe salt, and also that that wraps around it and shields the reactor Both of these work realize the energy And liquid fuel is contrasted with solid nuclear We think that thorium properly we can create essentially Let me walk you We call it the At the moment of fission-- a neutron, at least one that is going go and it's in an atom of thorium. And transformation then decays to an atom of atom of uranium. a special material that reaction and thus And through this process electricity, feeding the reactor thorium and generating more and transformed So this is the overall To understand this more closely, let me zoom in a What makes uranium be In this case, and that gives us There are two different that have a very They are called That means they can One of those is natural, Uranium is surrounded 4 outermost electrons shared with other sharing them with We call this material A tetra means four, and so bound to this uranium atom. Fluoride is a compound but you probably brushed with an analogous compound So not that weird. But when uranium is struck it sets up a process of and release 2 or 3 more neutrons and an enormous as well as 2 fission products So we're gonna follow I was asked earlier about So when a neutron man, it's really And it's probably not gonna until we slow it down. We call that slowing-down We do this in graphite. And what happens is bangs around in there and Once slowed down, it is much more releasing more neutrons. So we need one of those fissile atom of uranium, So let's follow and see what we want it to do. We want it to go and find Now thorium, it's got to be But natural thorium consists given an atomic mass of 232. That's why we But when it now instead of having and it has an So it's another But this isotope of thorium before one of those neutrons decays And we call that And once that takes place, as 91, and it loses it still has the And it's not thorium anymore. It's a new element in this case, protactinium-233. And once it's protactinium, from the thorium What that means is we could actually go and We really have an It's going to take about to decay into the form And we really don't want it to absorb So we'd like to get it away from that And we're going to do this by It's all like a battery. We put a very modest with an electrode And we can drive metallic into the salt, while into the And through this process, we while transferring that We're going to let it sit in We're going to let protactinium All those little dudes And then we're ready to go and refuel the reactor. And by so doing this process, we can keep that new fuel we've and keep the thorium fuel This is gonna make in our ability to 200 times improvement. But uranium-233 is And we don't have We really, really So now I get to the We needed a site to look both big and small. And when I was working at NASA, I was on to the Army Space and and we were doing out at the Yellow Creek And I one day and I found a nuclear reactor. And I was just once upon a time, TVA big nuclear reactors And these guys 2,800 megawatts And to put that in perspective, if this site had been built out, this would have been the in the entire So this would have A lot of work was done. But along with many it was cancelled Ironically, the same built out in Arizona So these reactors in Arizona going to be built And as we earlier talked about, to the Koreans and later built in So there's a right back to Mississippi This is what This was about 2017. There's the and there's the kind of there at the remnants of the cooling tower. NASA took the and was going to build But then that was And so the folks in Iuka, we'd like to build they said, it's about time. They said, we've been waiting to finish what got And we've heard people say, We're about ready So we're sensitive to the And I know they want But we went out talked with the and said, would you Would you let us lease the nuclear And after some So we've had the site under And we've put probably into site improvements there. We'd welcome any of you to and see what we'd like to do. We think this is one of in the United States, to say I've examined lots And I really think Yellow Creek Just to put Yellow the river connects the And you see that in the very uppermost but still very One of Mississippi's borders so that little tiny piece. But this is a because the other is that's where the forks off of the giving the Tennessee River to the Gulf of You all probably when the bridge in Memphis, And they were stopping And that was the only was to go up the Tenn-Tom So that was a a moment when we to our entire inland through that location We see an obvious to using the Yellow Creek site, not only to making power there, but also to talking about, could this be a very Could this be a place where that could be mobile, put onto barges? Some of our are from the They are intensely interested in a carbon-free And most of the other options So we see this site as not only but potentially a manufacturing site for And we're very, But obviously Let me talk a little bit pretty far away from where you have the single in the entire country. And it's been operating providing reliable energy, but it's also accumulated of spent nuclear The vast majority of which is but right now is and does not have We think that this molten-salt because instead of fabricating I mean, I'm a I think this is to look at a fuel assembly. But when you're a I gotta go chop it then you're like, oh, But when we we actually take our oxide fuel and we go through We have to in order We have to turn uranium dioxide into uranium So it's not weird to talk about In fact, every speck today's nuclear reactors has in order to be What we're talking about, which is to say, what and then used And this is what to do with this is to go and fluorinate it, to turn it from ceramic into a liquid and then to be able to use that I showed you in the to get the good stuff out, and to where it's ready And by doing that, you can you need to throw away I mean, it's a And you can recycle because most of it is So this is exciting. This is something in order to help Could we build a reactor facility, that could go and take spent and turn it into And to then make generating the needs of but perhaps for maybe even I know I'm TVA's territory but this is showing And it's almost a map You see there's just that has been along the And many of these plants And there is a need after having these Why were they on the river? because you could get coal And you can't do this This is pretty neat that So you can move very inexpensively You can also take advantage of the river for So it's no surprise that we found these But what if mobile molten salt reactors, that could go to these sites power and repower What if we could not only along the but along the Tennessee-Tombigbee along many of these sites? This is a big But again, it's congruent desires to see us getting Solutions for solutions for which we've recently is a great big need And so we see a very, And we think that this site logical place to So in conclusion, we believe dominant energy source that we are going to be And this may be one economic and technological If we can do this, it's going t Thank you very and I'm happy to Very thorough explanation. I appreciate it. Thank you. You said you've had Yeah, yeah. We've had this Mr. McNatt, being I know I'm close enough. And so everybody's always, So it would be circle and have a I think so too. Commissioners, questions? Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'm excited to be in this I'm going to ask our staff Representative Bubba And just to take a look at it to lift everything and put it in so we can Yeah, I've met with Bubba. He's a good friend of mine. I'm sorry to hear that. What I've learned in Tishomingo County is: I'll do something out at the Walmart, they'll be like, Yeah, those Commissioner with Bubba and the legislature, Yeah, thanks a lot That's all I have, Commissioner Carr? There's no No. Zero? I can't think of any. So the NRC wouldn't Oh, the NRC's always involved. Okay, gotcha. The licensing of But just to give you a on how I started with this. When I was at NASA, how we would power a This is back when I thought You know, and I thought: What could we do? could we build that not only would you live on top of it, And if it turned off, you So it wasn't turn it off If it turns off, And I couldn't think of any felt rose to about this molten And then I thought: I would be that confident in So how old is This technology the 1950s and it was Then it got cancelled and I spent 10 years And I wrote up my University of Tennessee And I can give you or I can give you All right, we'll do the The five-second answer is it nuclear weapons ambitions And so it got shelved. How small can you go? We think that we could probably build a reactor as I mean, you can build it It's just not going to get You know, you could build a but it's still going But in terms of it stop getting Probably about 10 But we would love to have We would love for that. And let's talk and what we think it'd be. Definitely worth piloting. Yeah. Just for education we can take some and do a test just to pilot it, not adopt it, Absolutely. that should be funded. Mississippi research reactor anywhere, that this would make to be able to have And you're It's a late day joke. Y'all can laugh by now, right? So send us some Absolutely, And thank you Like Commissioner and see what you're And we're serious, any Can I get that Yeah, if you will, to all three of us. And yeah, anything like and visit the site. Absolutely, thank you. Thank you for coming. (audience applauding) Well, that was our I don't know but that was very enlightening. We learned a lot today like the last one The good part I think our and we wanna get