This video was made possible by Audible. Get At first glance, the N.S. Savannah looked like an ordinary cruise ship. With a pool for taking a dip, a dining room, But there's one thing that set this ship Inside this unmarked space, just a few meters Something unheard of on a passenger-carrying And it meant the N.S. Savannah could do incredible things. Like circle the earth for years without ever In the 1960's, nuclear power was viewed But what was less certain, was whether putting really a good idea. As one of the first ships powered by a nuclear Savannah was going to prove that nuclear power of energy that could revolutionize ships. Because to make a one trip around the earth, twenty thousand barrels of bunker oil. All the while, billowing toxic smoke into The N.S. Savannah was designed to make that same trip Because it could circle the earth using just Replacing an oil burning engine with a small the future more economical, faster and reliable. It would also eliminate the need for large and passengers. Nuclear-powered ships could also travel for at much higher speeds. Opening up new trade routes that could reshape But despite all the promise of nuclear power, In the 1950s, nuclear really only meant one Its enormous destructive potential and the Nuclear weapons had been around for nearly energy was still a new concept. So in 1953, U.S. President Eisenhour launched In an effort to win over hearts and minds, throughout the world to advance the peaceful Savannah would be built as a floating example As the first of its kind, the ship would carry Demonstrating that nuclear power could be The N.S. Savannah was designed to look like the ship From the teardrop shaped superstructure to this ship was designed to stand out. But what really set it apart was the powerplant. At the heart of Savannah was a 74 megawatt Its role was to generate heat, creating steam The reactor was a complex piece of machinery, Inside, uranium fuel elements are bombarded In a process called nuclear fission,the neutrons in the form of radiation and heat. As the uranium atoms split, they release additional a chain reaction. It's a carefully controlled process that But it also produces harmful radiation. So, safety was at the forefront of every aspect To keep passengers and crew safe, mere meters of protection. The reactor was surrounded by a primary radiation a 500 ton biological shield. All of which were designed to stop stray neutrons Radiation exposure to passengers and crew On most parts of the ship, it would be indistinguishable But engineers also had to account for the into accidents, and in the worst case, sink. To counter severe weather, Savannah featured using hydraulically-actuated fins to counter The ship also featured a reinforced hull and collision with another ship. And in the unlikely event that Savannah were shut down and one-way valves would flood the radioactive material from escaping. Engineers had thought of every possible disaster claimed that their ship was one of the safest All that was left, was to convince the world. Though it had taken six years to develop and The reactor produced more power than anticipated. The ship was designed to top out at 20 knots, Among the grimy, soot covered merchant ships In May of 1964, Savannah set sail on an ambitious power. Over the course of a year, it made visits and to over a dozen European ports, crossing The ship traveled nearly 150,000 kilometers, Each time Savannah pulled into a new port, In the first year alone, 1.4 million people Savannah's world tour had gone fantastically and plenty of positive press Savannah's commercial operator was so happy congress to fund another four nuclear ships And back in the United States, additional serving aboard future nuclear ships. If nuclear propulsion really was the future, Savannah had made nuclear propulsion look to port. But hidden behind the sleek lines and gleaming There was nothing straightforward about operating Before Savannah could pull into a port, it And the request had to be made months in advance. And Ports often refused over safety concerns. So behind the scenes, Savannah's representatives negotiating agreements. Covering everything from how to respond if to who would be liable. Gut-level scepticism about floating nuclear And to make matters worse, Savannah's design The unusual half-passenger half-cargo configuration The passenger accommodations took up a lot And with so much emphasis having been placed lines made cargo handling difficult. Savannah also needed a highly-trained crew ship. For a ship built to prove that nuclear power to do the opposite. Even as the ship's operator publicly boasted costs were heavily subsidized, consuming millions But in one very important way, the Savannah Because It helped inspire other countries In 1964, West Germany launched the NS Otto A nuclear powered ore carrying freighter. It was celebrated as Germany's ship of the And like Savannah, the prototype ship was propulsion. But it didn't generate quite the same fanfare Many countries denied Otto Hahn permission from sailing through the Suez and Panama canals. A third, Japanese Nuclear Ship would do much The NS Mutsu was supposed to pave the way Instead, the ship would only spur anti-nuclear During an initial test run in 1974, crews faulty shielding. The incident made national headlines. But the media misreported the issue, claiming The public was so outraged, a flotilla of to its home port for nearly two months. Up against enormous public opposition, the Japanese government abandoned their plans A fourth, nuclear cargo ship built by the In the shadow of the Chernobyl disaster, public entering major ports in the Soviet Far East refused to unload cargo from the ship. Nuclear energy never stopped being a divisive have to contend with other headwinds. Although they promised to be cheaper to operate, There was also a lack of supporting infrastructure something were to go wrong. While a technical success, Savannah's design just 5 years in commercial operation. In 1971, the reactor was defueled and made Otto Hahn carried cargo for 9 years, but it's with a conventional diesel engine. Mutsu never carried cargo, and after having reactor was also swapped for a diesel engine. Along with a handful of nuclear icebreakers, remaining nuclear cargo ship, mostly carrying Today, more than 90,000 thousand merchant the majority burn low grade bunker oil. The most polluting oil available. One large cargo ship can put out as much hazardous And while the public remains focused on the related emissions have led to four hundred cancer and cardiovascular disease If just a dozen large cargo ships were powered emissions would be considerable. And they would join the hundreds of nuclear-powered the U.S military over the past 50 years. Today's nuclear technology is safer and when Savannah first set sail. But the development of nuclear powered civilian Because the biggest obstacles still remain, My own perceptions changed after listening A fascinating dive into the history of nuclear and skepticism. Mahaffey turns a complex subject into something And he makes a pretty compelling argument As fossil fuels become too expensive and the Atomic Awakening is just one of many thousands membership, covering everything from fiction These days, it's hard to find the time to Instead, with Audible I can listen while commuting, With Audible, I actually look forward to mundane As an audible member, you get one credit every library, including best sellers and new releases. You also get access to the Plus catalog which Podcasts and Audiobooks. Start your 30 day free trial of audible and to: www.audible.com/mustard or text mustard