Usually waking up because you have to go to waking up and leaving his bunk to use the old Harrison Odjegba Okene's life. Through the lone survivor of a boat sinking at sea. the only known person in the world to have The Gulf of Guinea in the southeast Atlantic of sedimentary seabed. Many offshore oil rig here. On May 26, about 20 miles (32 km) off tugboats pitched and yawed as they performed filling up at Single Buoy Mooring #3. Just by a large rogue wave and capsized. Because of ongoing piracy problems in the that the 12 man crew would lock themselves this rule slowed down the Jascon-4's crew had to first scramble out of their cabins, who had gotten up to use the bathroom in his When the tugboat keeled over and the ocean metal door open against a wall of water. The and Harrison was unable to follow some of watched in horror as a surge overwhelmed 3 into the raging sea. Then the water pushed bathroom which adjoined an officer's cabin. alive, Harrison held on to an overturned washbasin square bathroom. The boat sank nearly 100 feet (30 meters), seabed. When the tugboat capsized, there was other boats in the area and a helicopter. marked the location with buoys. They banged didn't hear him. As the divers weren't stay at the depth of the wreck for a limited due to no evidence of survivors. After nearly a day of being in the bathroom, air pocket. In pitch darkness, he swam and there was another air pocket here too, of estimation. Having solved the immediate problem of having concerns. The first one being that he was east Atlantic on average is a pleasant 81.9degF down. Shivering, wet and wearing only boxer body losing heat faster than he could produce the cabin. He found some tools and used them and the material from the wall, he was able helped Harrison to stay afloat and lifted allowing him to reduce heat loss. Hungry, thirsty, cold and stuck in complete to think about his family. Quite religious, would pray and call on Jesus to rescue him. skin from Harrison's tongue. He could smell bodies of his former shipmates. Every small of the hull, the banging of wreckage against and eating noises as fishes nibbled at the Meanwhile, a dive support vessel, the Lewek The parent company of the Jascon-4, West African diving team from subsea services company DCN crew members. The 6 divers, deck crew and technical staff a grueling mission. Aside from the heartrending sunk upside down into soft mud, stirring up Furthermore, because of security protocols Dive team two consisted of Nico Van Heerden, Colby Werrett topside on the ship, helping while watching the dive through a camera worn through an external watertight door and then boat. Once inside it was extremely disorienting floor overhead. The murky water was filled and equipment. Slowly, painstakingly, the divers explored when Nico crawled up the stairs to the main gear on his back. He was in a small passageway reached out of the murk and touched him... Harrison had nearly given up hope when he dropping. Then eventually he heard hammering be divers. He banged on the wall, but didn't light from one of the diver's head torches end of the cabin. Unfortunately, the diver could reach him. But then came the magical moment. You may from Nico's video when he sees what he believes hand and the hand unexpected squeezes his. Colby shouts through the microphone "He's to comfort Harrison by patting him on the The divers were amazed to find Harrison alive. is 130 feet (40 meters). Generally, recreational for more than 20 minutes. In terms of the just in time. A human inhales roughly 350 24 hours. However, because the boat was under that Harrison's air pocket had been compressed air pocket were about 216 cubic feet (6 cubic keep Harrison alive for about two-and-a-half underwater for about 60 hours. An additional danger came from carbon dioxide a concentration of about 5%. As Harrison breathed, the levels of the gas in the tiny space. However, the water inside his air pocket, Harrison area, thereby heightening the absorption of lethal 5% level. The divers describe Harrison and delirious when they found him--he wouldn't The divers first used hot water to warm Harrison on the surface, the dive support crew was discussing how to best help the survivor. Harrison had a new problem, what divers commonly as decompression sickness (DCS) or Caisson in the blood as a result of changes in pressure. (30 meters) underwater to the surface of the in the best case joint pain and rashes to issues, cardiac arrest or possibly even death. It was decided that Harrison would be treated coming up after a dive. Harrison spent about the mask. Then the divers put a diving helmet that he would panic as they got him out of Harrison continued to be cool under pressure. Harrison was taken from the boat and led to finally arrived topside around at 7pm on Tuesday, that it was Sunday evening and he had only to learn that he had been underwater for over moved to a decompression chamber where he body decompressed to surface pressure. Of the 12 crew members onboard the tugboat 10 bodies. The search for the 11 crew member Harrison made a full recovery from his ordeal He didn't go to the funerals of his colleagues can be very religious, but are also superstitious. through black magic. Harrison was also plagued the only one to live. Since the incident Harrison's experienced nightmares--Harrison will suddenly awake, underwater. Harrison has since taken a cooking job on on a boat. He made a pact with God when he was under the water I told God: If you rescue never." Do you think you could survive underwater think about to keep your spirits up? Let us out our other video The Only Man To Survive as always, don't forget to like, share,