I looked for Ali for four years. Nobody answered my phone calls. Was he dead or alive? I had no idea. Finally, I found him in Turkey. I chose my house in Turkey because it has a view on Syria. From my window, Ali had taken part right from the start. He was one of those peaceful demonstrators I really suffer when I see my homeland so close. And yet, I'm unable to go there. Why did you leave Syria? -Al-Qaeda. Their Jabhat al-Nusra branch. Did they threaten you? They came to my home. They beat my wife, my mother, They threw them out and beat my daughters. We had to leave the house. They didn't let us take a thing. Not even the few belongings we had They took everything. They stole the revolution from us. In November 2011, I hadn't yet met Ali. I was in Turkey, a Syrian revolutionist Yes, two Frenchmen. A young Turk, my brother and I. Back then, Bashar al-Assad's country We would have to cross over the mountains We would need to be patient. Three days stuck in a tiny apartment the TV showing amateur footage from Syria. They're throwing people in jail Three-quarters of young Syrians The NGO say 4,000 dead, As they can't ID the bodies, People are dying in complete indifference. Why do journalists do that? They should check the facts Some families have lost Raouf Darwish, Khalil's brother, who had high expectations In 2011, I still believed, but faced with international cowardice, the cowardice of the superpowers, namely, the West, what were the people supposed to do? Cowardice was responsible for the situation and it's far from over. I'll try to find each man in that group Six years have gone by since that day when I finally got the green light Okay, we're here in Antakaya, in Turkey. You'll cross the frontier Syria, those mountains. To cross over to Jisr al-Shughur. -God bless. Then you'll walk through the mountains. I hope everything goes smoothly It's about a six-kilometers walk. You must be very careful, as any miscalculation could prove fatal. Beyond the barbed wire, Syria. Where are we? Syria, my beloved Syria. Let's proceed. -We'll sleep here. We have to stay and sleep There were a bunch of friends near the city of Idlib. They had joined the revolution. Among them was Abu Saleh, He would be my interpreter Ali was the only one I'm wanted because I went &quot;The people of Syria want freedom!&quot; Our mission is to protect army deserters by finding them safe houses so that the army can't find and kill them. Okay, guys, one, two, three! In the name of Allah, the Almighty! Deserters from the regular army Don't move before being replaced. Ali would use a scanner to tune in He had neutralized our phones. They can ID your phone using its code. If you leave the chip in, Then, they can target and bomb you. For Ali, the revolution was a party. He wanted to overthrow It's one of the longest rulings Here's the dog, Hafez al-Assad! We've blocked the light so the security forces can't see us. If the light gives us away, with their tanks. That's why we cover up the windows. Our hideout was an isolated country house The people want Bashar dead! With the help of Allah! In 2011, Ali was constantly setting up ways Remember, if we're talking on the phone and you hear me say &quot;There is no god but Allah and I ask you to come and join me, it means I've been arrested and the army is setting you up. O Bashar, you poor coward, That day, we arrived in a village where a man killed Assad's militiamen killed during a huge protest A peaceful demonstration. Our soul and our blood A rumor rushed through the crowd, Panic spread like wildfire. Calm them down! Don't go up! Stay here! Come back! Keep filming! Seeing this population terrorized In this peaceful demonstration, a few weapons started At that time, the rebels didn't want We had to bring down the regime. We knew things could degenerate. We were perfectly aware of that, but I never imagined I'd be here People are so desperate they're starting Even free Syrian Army members Off you go! If I had known what was going to happen, I'd have made arrangments, We didn't take up arms at the outset. Our protests were peaceful. Early in the revolution, None of us was armed. Almost everywhere in the Arab world, This is a peaceful revolution! Whatever happens, One of the demonstrators, an IT student, had set up a makeshift broadcasting studio He cobbled together a system His name was Milad Fadel. We use Skype. We take photos and shoot videos and post them on Facebook. Right now, I'm sending some videos who will post them on Youtube. Another thing, You have generators? Yes, we have a generator The electricity is down That happens all the time. In 2013, Milad found a job In 2016, he had covered Today's battle will be decisive. If the rebels manage Milad survived. He lives somewhere near Idlib with his wife and two children. It's great to see him alive, Weren't you tempted to leave Syria No, I grew up in Turkey What would happen to me if I came to work in Syria today? Are you kidding? Right here, right now, you're nothing You're probably worth two I see. In fact, this interview will get me dead, but I forgive you. In November 2011, Ali, like Milad, They both believed that images would force democracies in the West but it took too long. Ali ended up joining a rising leader He was a simple construction worker in the power of pictures Jamal Maarouf. -This is Jamal Maarouf. Jamal Maarouf is a good leader. He's like my big brother. Shall we go to see Jamal? Let's go! Hang on, let's finish our tea first. Jamal Maarouf lives close but we didn't visit him there. We met him in a safe house. Even on the Turkish side of the border, attacks by Islamists are frequent and have claimed the lives Here, we're waiting for Jamal Maarouf We installed surveillance cameras after a bomb was placed Who put the bomb? It was al-Qaeda, for sure. Exile hasn't taken away -This interview will give them trouble. Just sell your land Also, get married again. Sure, it's only logical. How many kids do you have, Jamal? So far, sixteen. Do you want to have more? Allah will decide. -May Allah protect them. At what moment did you think that the demonstrations but you should fight back? Towards the end of May, the regime began using their guns and opened fire on protestors. They're shooting at the demonstrators! The regime began sending its tanks Thousands of soldiers poured They arrested the civilians so the decision to take up arms was imposed on us by the regime. Here, brother, take it. We'll put it in the back. -Leave it to me. In November 2011, Ali traded in his camera for a weapon. Come on, let's move! I'm cold, can we shut the window? I'm freezing! I deserted from the army four months ago. It was the best decision of my life! I swore to protect my people, For the first time, Ali would shoot God is great! Assad's soldiers are there. Lots of them! They have tanks. The first weapons you used, We started ambushing the regime's army with our own guns and hunting rifles. Then, we took the regime's weapons and turned them against it. We ended up accumulating enough material. Back then, did you get any help In 2001? From ambushes to pillaging arms depots, Jamaal Maarouf's group obtained more One particular event turned Jamal Maarouf In 2012, he shot down a regime fighter jet Bashar, look what we do to your planes! We'll take control of the airfields until Bashar stops bombing civilians! His newly earned prestige enabled him to set up a genuine army I, the leader of the revolution, head of the Syrian Martyrs Brigade, declare the founding Before God and the Nation, I swear our eyes watch over you until Syria is free We will bring hope and security Peace on our martyrs. Right now, Syria is the property Our goal was to shift from dictatorship respecting the individual but today, Syria belongs Wasn't the decision to take up weapons a huge trap for the revolution? Sure, did the regime push for that? It's because al-Assad wanted the people's revolution against the regime to turn into an armed conflict. This would help him a lot. Indeed, but there was no other choice, because the only thing is the language of force. I promise that we will not stop until we reach the Palace God is great! We're with the members They all deserted from the regime's army who are regularly killed during peaceful protests. During this protest, this friendly-looking bearded man I would constantly see him around us, watching over us Pictures of people if you remember them. He's here, Abu Saleh. From this bad regime. Milad Faled, he works for Al-Jazeera now. He abandoned the revolution. He left his rifle He's still in Syria. What's his name? I can't remember his name, but he also gave up the revolution. Ghazi. Is this Ghazi? Come see, it's him. He's trimmed his beard a bit. Take a photo of the screen. Send it to Abu Saleh It's Ghazi, dude! Ghazi el-Hadj. Go on, send it to Abu Saleh. He's with ISIS now. He's in Raqqa or Mosul. I remember the first time I met Ghazi. We were in a hideout, and Abou Saleh, the English teacher, It was Ghazi. Where are you? Film everything. -Do you want to go there? -You want? -Let's go! Are there a lot of people? We're with journalists, can they film? Okay, great, let's go. Moussa was on the phone There's quite a crowd, They're afraid. No worries, I'll take them in my car. The people who joined the revolution knew We all wanted freedom. We were all aware Half of the disasters I feared I knew we were going to have problems, but I never thought it would get this bad. The man assigned to protect us He was perched on a car, rifle in hand. Suddenly, Ghazi got scared. The army's coming! Let's go, the Syrian army is coming! Before I left, Ghazi hugged me. Let's go. I remember he was the one When the army came, he said, ''Be careful, the army is coming, -Remember? I remember it very well. He was the one who tried. Now, if he would see us, I don't think so. On the contrary, he may kill us. We'll probably be wearing Milad, the reporter in the group, Ghazi is a very uptight, impulsive man. He used to insult Allah all the time, I even scolded him about it. If he has joined ISIS, it's not for ideological reasons but for psychological reasons. Don't forget that our society is made up of small rural communities, and Ghazi comes from a very poor family. Do you ever speak to Ghazi on the phone? No, if he knew where I was, He'd kill me. Isn't it horrible to see that a man who was a friend could kill you today? That's life, I can't know who'll kill me. Even brothers kill each other for power. Ghazi loves power and money. I'm guessing they exploited this weakness. The guy would blaspheme all the time. I've known him since I was five. No one knows him better than I do. No way is he an extremist. That's just an act I think there were a lot of people because they gave him about $500 a month, while the Free Syrian Army had nothing. In 2012, They came to join the Syrian Islamists that Bashar al-Assad had freed They were Iraqis, Tunisians, veterans from the war against Russia. Inshallah! They claimed to represent Al-Qaeda, an even more radical group had sprung up, the Islamic State. Among these newly arrived foreigners His war name was Abu Abdelaziz al-Qatari. ISIS presented him as one of its early fund providers with money from businessmen in the Gulf. Al-Qatari was obviously well known to the highly effective and yet he entered the country quite easily Let us get in the zone. Back then, the regime-owned media and al-Qatar came three times here via Damascus Airport The regime had checkpoints everywhere. It was a real ordeal for Syrians. How can an al-Qaeda founder get He was the ideologist behind ISIS. Abu Abdelaziz al-Qatari had a plan to shift the Syrian revolution and he had the means to do it. He offered if Maarouf agreed to join them. When we first met Abdel Aziz al-Qatari, he introduced himself He said he ran a large network among the jihadists, and in Europe too. He said he was waiting Between Jamal Maarouf's group Al-Qaeda was behaving dangerously. In 2012, they distanced themselves and went into isolated villages to influence They recruited illiterate people Al-Qatari founded his own group, the soldiers of al-Aqsa, When I fought the Russians during the jihad in Afghanistan, I asked the Russian prisoners of war: &quot;You who are here fighting the Afghans,&quot; &quot;what do you feel&quot; &quot;when you hear Muslims They said, &quot;We piss ourselves.&quot; We were just focused on our combat. We didn't have the time There were never any official meetings. We thought they wanted They were in the fields We had no real idea We were too busy fighting the regime. Long live the Free Syrian Army! Once al-Qaeda had entered Syria, The troops to collect the heads of disbelievers! Soon, the Islamists took over power and Jamal Maarouf was forced When al-Qaeda began it turned against the Free Syrian Army, I heard that you all drink alcohol Okay, listen to me... Do you know what's said? Before you punish he who sinned, what is it that Allah say in the Quran? &quot;When two factions are opposed, We're not even there. Give me a single piece of evidence that my men fornicate If my men have sinned, These emissaries from al-Nusra, also accused Jamal Maarouf Do you have one piece of evidence Who controlled the East -Al-Nusra. Everybody knows to feed the martyrs of Syria. Al-Nusra controls the oil, How can you accuse me of pillaging when the wheat of an entire country Where is it now? In 2014, Jamal Maarouf felt the Syrian revolution He set out to confront ISIS first, That day, on the other end was the Al-Qaeda leader in Syria, Al-Julani, it's Jamal Maarouf, Show us your true face! Show us, you fanatic! We're defending Syria! You bastard, Like ISIS, you're here By Allah, you're only here to destroy, On the first day of Maarouf's offensive the jihadist Moneyman, Abu Abdelaziz al-Qatari His body was later exhumed by ISIS in a territory controlled ISIS accused Maarouf of killing Al-Qatari. Who was this guy? All I know is that his name That's all. Violent fighting against the Islamists Al-Qaeda has lots of money They financed their members Confiscated in battle Their influence became very strong. However, the Free Syrian Army In fact, the regime did all it could As the situation became desperate, Jamal Maarouf's group sought support You got some help from America, We started getting help in about 2014. You got six months of help, that's it. About six or seven months, that's all. What happened after the six months? All the branches of al-Qaeda and al-Nusra ganged up against us. Help came too late. In July 2014, The Islamists organized showing off the vehicles Ali, along with most of Maarouf's men, Their region and their revolution Ali left with his whole family, As prisoners in their exile, Your daughter is here. -No, it's okay. The earth, the stones, the people, the dead... I miss everything. It burns you up inside but you're powerless to act. Nothing can replace Syria. Come here. He's my uncle. Do you miss Syria also? How can you not miss your homeland? Do you miss your parents? They killed my kid brother. My elder brother, too. Peace be on their souls! Now I'm forced to stay in Turkey. Who killed your brother? Some villagers close to the regime, The militia killed them both. Later, I was watching TV in Turkey, I can't remember which channel, and I saw a man in a prisoner's uniform with a group of men dressed The journalist called them ISIS, The prisoner kept saying, &quot;Have mercy, They tied him up like a sheep, another man held his head and a sword. He beheaded him It made my hair stand on end. I was speechless for two days, A man decapitating another They call themselves Islamic State, I now hate all of Syria, What kind of religion is that? Not even the Jews would do that! Ali's family is among thousands of Syrian families just across the border. As did Raouf Darwish's family. We planned to bring the family to Turkey, but what's left of the family? The boys are all taking part Only my mother is left, and she's too old. She's very, very elderly. It was a plan, but so be it... The family left for Turkey after the death of Khalil. In 2013, Khalil, the man who had smuggled us There was an ambush and he was shot dead. He was on a motorbike when he got shot. He tried to swerve out of the way, He was armed but helpless. His Kalashnikov was on his back and he was outnumbered. Afterwards, they announced: I'm just afraid If I were arrested, That's the only thing I'm scared of. I'm not afraid of dying. Death has become something normal. The survivors of the Darwish family Daoud, one of Raouf's brothers, I lost my cousin, my two brothers, another cousin... I can't trust anyone anymore. Now, they're simply exterminating Anyone with good morals Patriots, honourable people, they all die. That's how it is now. Europe let us down. Syria is completely devastated, They killed children and old folks, Whether there's peace or not, I must return to Syria, I have to. In 2016, after four years of war the Turks built an unreachable wall They're enclosing the Syrian people and the fighters of the Free Syrian Army. Since this wall was built, they have lost all freedom of movement. That's how it is. The Turkish army is now deployed The Turks have armored vehicles To return and resume the fighting, Ali must now play by the rules established To return to Syria, I had to talk They have a &quot;Syrian Department&quot; and let me go back. I left to fight ISIS. Ali discovered a Syria ravaged The Syrian Army was in decline both Al-Qaeda and ISIS. The jihadis had more men, more weapons, and they had taken hold The Turks provided Ali with a few weapons. He met up with a small unit Three months later, in June 2016, Wounded, he returned to Turkey. The revolutionists have lost This is an ISIS cell They were kids, dude! Young ISIS members, I swear when you arrest them, You want to hit them, One of them had killed one of my men, but I didn't have the courage to hit him. Abu Saleh, I swear, Ali was surprised of the young ISIS members. Crazily, they believe they'll go Even if they're far away from you, they'll blow themselves up anyway. Even though it's pointless. They know that very well. We arrested and asked him: &quot;What's the point in blowing yourself up He said, &quot;I want to go to Paradise. If 50 guys blow themselves up and two survivors take the village, I wanted to ask Ghazi, who had gone over to ISIS Through numerous middlemen, and late in the day, we got his reply. He doesn't talk to pigs. They consider us pigs, me and you. We're all, in his consideration, infidels.