When a group of French archaeologists landed found that they were ... outnumbered. Despite having a population of about 1.2 million bigger population of cats. By some estimates, as many as 1.5 million roam the country. You can find them practically everywhere! But Cyprus is an island in the Mediterranean, a bath, you know most of them aren't big The closest mainland is Turkey, about 70 kilometers So how did all of those cats get there? Well, those French archaeologists might have While excavating the site of an ancient settlement, It was the grave of a man who was buried alongside 8 month old cat. Dating to around 9,500 years ago, this burial of human/cat companionships anywhere in the of cats in ancient Egypt by 4,000 years! But when did this close relationship between Who were the ancestors of domesticated cats? And how did humans help cats take over Cyprus...and For that, we can thank the complex process And yes -- even though we let them poop in and sometimes pee in the laundry basket for though it might not always feel like it. Today's domesticated cat is its own species, And we can trace its origins to a species is made up of five different subspecies. Based on studies of the genomes of modern lybica, is the direct ancestor of all domesticated And those wild cats -- often referred to as North Africa and Southwest Asia. And as you can tell, these ancestral cats descendants. They're slightly larger, and they don't we see in house cats. Instead, they mostly have what are called run perpendicular to their spines. You can even find this same pattern in the Now, these wild kitties are solitary creatures structure that other animals, like wolves, So scientists think that the domestication the domestication of other animals. But unfortunately, the fossil record of African Most haven't been preserved well enough why it's been so hard to figure out how Some of the oldest known fossils include specimens and others in Turkey from around 10,000 years So, how did we get from Felis silvestris lybica Well, you know how hard it is to get cats It took a lot of time! And we still don't know the full picture, ways in which animals can be domesticated. A species is considered to be "domesticated" modified through human-influenced breeding. And it has to be reliant on humans on some Or to clean out the litter box. And American archaeologist Dr. Melinda Zeder to domestication: the prey pathway, the directed In the prey pathway, wild animals are first Then, in order to better control the hunts, like goats and cattle. This leads to captive breeding and eventually With the directed pathway, people use lessons often through the prey pathway. Horses and beasts of burden, like donkeys this way. We fast-tracked their domestication in order and carry heavy loads. And finally, in the commensal pathway, wild by food. They go where the people go, feeding off of been drawn to the humans, like mice or rats. And this eventually leads to domestication. This is probably how cats were domesticated. For thousands of years, they stayed close necessarily close to the people themselves. But eventually, people noticed that cats were that plagued their food stores, and began And we can get glimpses into this process For example, isotopic analysis of cat remains has revealed trace amounts of millet, a staple This suggests that cats were eating the mice a useful service for the villagers! And the isotopic data from one cat revealed than expected, suggesting that it either scavenged Aww! So what did domestication, as a process, do Well, physically, domestication has made house in new varieties in coat color and patterning. These included new variations of the tabby and white colors. Most of these coat changes are fairly recent, became more prominent. Then by the 19th century, scientists believe, variation in markings and colors. But beyond size and color, domestication really much compared to, say, dogs, which have seen This is mostly because of differences in breeding for specific purposes. Modern cats also maintain more genetic and than most other domesticated animals do, including This is probably because of interbreeding wildcat populations. But the thing is, wildcats are actually thought southwest Asia about 10,000 years ago, and This is based on an analysis of the genome source populations contributed to the current And we've also found archaeological evidence For example, in Egypt, six burials have been two adult cats and four kittens. And they date to between 3,600 and 3,800 years Their smaller bones closely match the size skeleton even showed healed fractures, suggesting After about 3,000 years ago in Egypt, we can art and iconography that show cats alongside And from there, it looks like cats were brought through interactions between Rome and Egypt. As civilizations begin to expand around 2,000 cats followed as well. We know ancient Romans kept felines as pets, show cats in more domestic settings, often Roman cats were most likely adopted into households they did in the early stages of domestication. But none of this actually tells us where the oldest evidence of domestic cats is on the Cyprus in the first place? Well, all we know is that, at some point during years ago, people from southwest Asia began And they brought with them that subspecies cats. And, cats being cats, we ended up with millions In modern day Cyprus, the cat population has infestation. Cats are often seen as vermin, and there have growing population. Luckily for the feral cats, though, there try to care for every stray. But it's not just on this island where cats Our relationship has been mutually beneficial over the world. Today their estimated overall Cats have achieved world domination, but if have left Africa and Asia. We carried them to places they otherwise might So maybe our pet cats should treat us with Mine could've started by not peeing on my But I loved him anyway. Big thanks and kitty snuggles to this month's Jon Davison Ng, and Steve! To join the Eonites, go patreon.com/eons and Kallie asked me to use those exact words! But I also want to thank you for joining me Be sure to subscribe at youtube.com/eons for