Did you know that A is actually an ox? Or that K started off as a hand? The letters we use to explain ourselves to Tales as old as the pyramids of Egypt, the In this video we'll explore Who was the first to see a C? To write out Y or to have a P? And what on earth is a naked E? Let's answer all these questions This is the alphabet. You probably knew that. More specifically, it's our alphabet. Not all alphabets look like gets its name from someone else's alphabet. You've perhaps also heard this referred And that's because the majority of these settled in the configurations that we However behind each of these simple In some cases, 6,000 years to the Egyptians. The letter A for example, Or at least this Egyptian hieroglyph of an ox. as being pictures of anything, but in The Egyptians famously constructed their hieroglyphics, with each one representing a word. were sometimes used kind of informally You could then use them in combination in Egypt - for example - the word you wanted to write using of the around a thousand hieroglyphs So say you couldn't remember the hieroglyph picture of, I don't know, a button? Y using the hieroglyph for the /t/ sound Except, of course, you couldn't because that time and would not help you communicate But you get the system I'm Anyway, some of those foreigners I mentioned, a group called the Canaanites who came of spelling out words so much that they And they co-opted some of the So, they chose this picture of an ox to represent which was Aleph. the letter that too. They called it Aleph. supposed to be a representation of a sort of hut, in their word for house. 27 representing all their consonant sounds. The Phoenicians were the next They tweaked them just a little who changed their names to alpha and beta and that is where alphabet comes from. who lived in modern day Italy. They meddled and Bay to reflect their sounds instead. Romans tidied them up a bit and voila! A and B aren't the only members of our modern alphabet that can be traced C started out as an Egyptian throwing stick. It got passed around and bent about E, believe it or not, is thought to fella waving his hands around. And that's actually exactly the sound and the also to the Phoenicians as well. rather different for a start, and they to represent their sound /e/. start and named the letter naked E - epsilon K is thought to have started out as a hieroglyph And M was some wavy water. I N is believed to have begun as a snake that O started life as an Egyptian eye, not as in the letter I. And finally R has perhaps seen the biggest transformation - can you guess If you said "a head" - first of on in yours - and second, you're right, civilizations it passed through, you can see until we end up with something utterly So those are the ones that the smart believe came from the Egyptians. be traced back to that alphabet developed for L for example is thought to have started out as It's actually meant to be something not-so-gently encourage cattle to get moving. Basically, a primitive cattle prod. Anyway as the Greeks, the Etruscans and the Romans, So which letter do you suppose this 4 If you said W, you are absolutely... This is actually thought to D is also suspected of having come although there's some dispute over which letter is (apparently that is a picture of a a door) radically over time. It actually One was passed to the Etruscans and the other became Delta when the Q is also thought to have possibly It started off looking like - I dunno - an O all that much over a few thousand years. survived at all. It does nothing that a C or a K Phoenicians, Q made a slightly different sound to not different enough to convince the Etruscans They instead deployed it for niche uses. So, K went before /e/ and /i/ and Q went Now, U has its own fascinating story to life as this Phoenician character. And of V. And... most surprisingly of all... Yup - the Greeks took the two prongs of this It's easy to see how the Phoenician character It's right towards the end of our alphabet who deliberately imported it from the spell out Greek words. That's why in languages I" - igrek. And why in others - like German The Romans were just repeating a process because their letter U had also descended V. Why? Because to the Romans, They didn't have a /v/ sound - any they have a /v/ actually had a /w/ sound. V got allocated the sound it has now in English it for use to distinguish between Old English's words here. These are the old English words for The F is making a very different sound the second wolf and wolves. It's also the explanation for why into that in my video about weird English plurals. Anyway, the final letter to have originated How? Well the clue is in the name. U - two Us next to each other. Although as I said, to the Romans, U and V were the same,. It was actually Germanic languages that replacing their runic letter, wynn, looks too much like a P. In English we other languages it's called double V, like in barely use it actually. Do the French just use Oui. See Now having just gotten over the let's look at some more Roman double trouble. To the Romans, the letters I and They're both thought to date back to that probably made a /y/ sound in semitic speech. The shape itself may have started out as a it was simplified significantly as For the Romans, I served two purposes - as a Just look at how the Romans This was pronounced yoo-lee-oos, and very different role to the one in the J came into being much later when scribes two usages. Eventually the elongated version That Roman /y/ sound actually ended up developing turned into a /h/ sound like in jamon and in although over the centuries it has softened to I don't know why I'm so into ham today. Anyway, we've covered most of the alphabet now, but there are a few stragglers, First G. So when the Romans got hold of a /g/ sound but this was clearly so they popped this little spur on there H started out as this phoenician letter precisely what it looks like, isn't it? The Romans making it a much less formidable obstacle The Phoenicians were the first to have a P. It started off as a vaguely bendy line T has actually barely changed over four thousand X started off as this funky Phoenician fellow. It Greece - its form in the east went on to be western form found its way to the Romans via And lastly - in its rightful place - is zed. I'll answer that in a sec. as this Phoenician letter that looks like a or laziness, turned it into a single stroke. own words. But they kept it in order As for the zee/zed question: To the Romans and Greeks, and when the Normans invaded England they They were ze and zete, both of which have One of them being zee and the other one being zed. And there we have it - an A to Now, I've only talked about the upper case case letters also have their own stories to upper case letters being written down and do want to learn more about this I can highly while researching this. It's called A is for It you've liked this video, do check out that you're going to really like is my one about characters that we used to use but we don't use I've made. If not, maybe I'll see you over in [sings[ Frolicking in the snow.