hi welcome to an Arduino tutorial from you how you can use the L298N dual made on a module that you can control 2 control a stepper motor. In this video we I'm going to show you how we can rotate the to increase the step when rotating how going to control their speed with then we are going to control the can get a code for this by clicking at description which will take you to www.robojax.com/learn/arduino let's get started with this. That's one of the cheapest module that price tag of between $5 to $15 can control a bipolar stepper motor with show you is part of Arduino but I'm It can handle up to 4A with the current heat sink. For with this one you can go up to 2 ampere tested it. I'm going to explain the outputs and components and the datasheet, find out the face of your motor with ohm the wiring. Then the code will be well. ( Hardware Explained ) This is one of the famous motor drivers stepper motor. This is based on L298N from bridge I call it the chip is offered in standing and PowerSO20. these are the to 46 volts maximum DC current. If you ampere. Here is a block diagram within this transistor that we have and then here are OUT3 and OUT4. these are motor. In our case stepper motor. We will other phase to this two wires. Because we current sensing. If you wants to if you can be connected I've separate video their current the link will be provided (under this video). input 2 input 3 and put 4. To control the is another full bridge. This can be the portion we also have another enable can control 2 DC motors fully in single directions. But if when it comes can be controlled with this. I'm going to stepper motor. this is a 5 volts regulator. When the voltage comes through this jumper which you can remove this jumper. This jumper and it goes to the logic and you get five volts output you're not connecting it to USB. 2 pins is for one phase of stepper motor. These to explain next. The two terminal here volts of your motor. Whatever is your voltage up to 25V. And this is a GND. so you will connect is output 5 volts to your Arduino. these will be connected respectively to pin 11, 10, 9 and 8. And these two are the connected one here and one here we have control two DC motors. But for stepper it ON but you can control it with Arduino. If you want to control it with Arduino remove this and connect this and we can control it through the code it always a HIGH this pin is 5 volts and this source of 5 voice will be connected it's always ON. For removing the spike of suppress those. And here is a schematic chip from this chip L29N. these are this pin, for each output we have a diode positive or VCC from the start and from fourth. And from each pin the GND. You see from pin 2 and will be connected to the phase of the resistor to turn it on to show us that it has power. Capacitor at the output of this this is connected directly to the DC and regulator the board is 44.1 millimeters by 47 millimeters by 29.3 millimeters weighs 23.7 grams Winding phases of the motor Now let's identify the phases of this phases we have four wires. Two wires are other phase. If you see extra other not used at all. four which and which two wires are connected (internally)so will find we will read some kind of you will see my multimeter shows zero to closer to zero but something less we see that they have explained it. As as two and each will have two wires. In has arranged such that this is one middle out and these are symmetrical side same number of turns on this side a middle tip from these two this is that's inserted to the last and first and here I'm holding it I'm holding one I should not touch it if I touch you ohm or something so I should not touch so this is open-loop. Now keep the last the second one and this is also open moved in to the from the other side and now as and now around 9 ohms. So these two last pins around 9 ohm now when those two are the that these two or other phase let me last two pins and let's see around 9 ohms. We read that on the Wiring Explained Wiring Diagram of this is available as part of my Arduino Course on Udemy. The link to my course is below. Now let me explain the wiring. The first these four wires connected directly to meaning from this side if we have IN1, IN2, IN2 and IN4 2 3 &amp; 4 or connected to pin 11 10 9 &amp; 8. make mistake with these. Here this this will be connected to the GND of my supply this pin is 5 volts out. This is Arduino is not connected to USB I will get 5 volts to Arduino now for the motor phase these two to the other phase it just will change the direction of want. But we can change the direction this one. On one side and the other two will determine the rotation the is connected one last thing to remember is that you working with this you must connect the you do not connect the ground it will and to my power supply. So this is my GND from Arduino and the GND from it to my power supply. as one is the has power because Arduino doesn't have some code already so to show you will connect this pin to Vin of Arduino and do not forget that this jumper must I'm connecting it now. Arduino running code demonstration Now let me explain already built in with Arduino go to File-&gt; Stepper and open &quot;Stepper one Revolution&quot; include &quot;stepper.h&quot; that is part of anything. Constant integer we are and make it constant so it cannot change. meaning this motor will complete one find a motor that is not 200 steps per 200 steps per revolution. then from this an object and we call it myStepper and pen 8 9 10 and 11 our wires have been set up myStepper.setSpeed(60) this initialize the serial monitor with 9600 when you run the serial monitor. For a myStepper.step and then stepsPerRevolution, here we send how many steps we want the revolution so this will go as if we type 200 here because we said second 500 millisecond and then we print this was 200 as I said and here we are So that step that means 200 this means 500 millisecond the loop continues like The code have been loaded and the wire is power and now the motor is running let me open with each rotation that value changes out it is one revolution which means it direction and the other direction. Very 50 and then let's also put this one now this jumped 50 let's make it 100 so you know from make it hand it interrupt it let me at you see at this point now it will be now this motor is drawing 1.2 this portion and remove this delay, we let me upload it so you learn something just goes 100. you see from this hundred step and then wait want the motor to go slower five step in that is 5. you can go even one that now this will go 200 steps until let's open other example Got File-&gt;Examples-&gt;Stepper-&gt;One Step at a time this is just for counting. it goes one did before I'm closing it now now this consumes 1.68 the slower it Example:motor knob (position control) now we'll connect the potentiometer and with the potentiometers. this variable a separate video explaining this with link will be provided below. Here I will maximum to be on the right side connect 5 volt pin and make sure the middle analog so make sure the middle one is to will connect it on this side it will be ready I'm just going to upload the code. then Motor Knob. The only difference is call it steps and then 200 if you see it 100 accordingly - Mine is 200 steps per revolution. then we are passing the steps. The pins are order if 11 10 9 9t becomes like have a variable called &quot;Previous&quot; which will be used inside the code and then at 300 revolution per minute for this. and I have to fix it. And here is how I'm so we are reading using analogRead we between 0 to 1023 and we store it a this line to fix the issue and using the maps two values proportionally to another from 0 to 1023 and it Maps it between 0 you are getting from potentiometer will if this is 0 the output step will be 0 200 and the result of this calculation using step here minus &quot;previous&quot; and then now all the value will be replaced with step and let's you can see I'm at the left side it's revolution to the same point as you can for that is that the value from this is it responds very precisely and for the speed of rotation revolution change in RPM(revolution per minuet) now what 68 goes faster let's make it 200 that would be very fast almost the same speed of my hand let us make it 300 see if it gets faster and as you can see the steps slip if you will not come to the same spot a little do it like 20 times it will move to that's because the 300 did not work. the same location so 200 is good from this you know that model the model is very hot now and if 10 , or let's say 5 then when you move this to take a while as a full rotation now it takes this long for this reach to the same spot it started. look at the other example this is for let's upload it are controlling the call a sensorReading and then the from 0 to 1023 to 0-200. now this time we the knob is at the maximum and here if continues like that otherwise no. So now when I put it at the maximum that 100 RPM (100 Revolution per minuet) if I go it becomes slow and fully stop with this module. If you learned thumb up . if you have comment or below I always try to answer and reply. to this for example controlling the moving the stepper motor using push interested to get updates make sure to you