We're at Kabul airport. It never crossed our minds or the minds of our enemies that we'll be back this way. When the fighting started Against the U.S and NATO people used to say "they are crazy" carrying a rifles in the mountains and Americans can see a needle on the ground so how could they do that?! Who are the Taliban? What do you mean by Taliban? In August, 2021 the cobweb broke and got torn. and these are its torn silk holding on to its maker trying to follow him while he forsook it to its inevitable destiny We all remember the American plane in 2021 when it was taking off and Afghans climbing on it. Do you remember that moment? Kabul airport. We all remember what happened in 2021 and what happened in this airport. This is the U.S and its allies rushing to gather their things hurrying up to escape under the strikes of Taliban after 20 years of occupying Afghanistan. 300 thousand Afghan security and military personnel A prime minister and the parliament are the cobweb that got broken overnight and disappeared and evaporated. So, what's the story of Afghanistan? It was a great joy I remember I was in Kabul that night when the last soldier and airplane got out from the Afghan capital, Kabul. And I remember that joy that I probably never had before in my life. Peace be upon you! We're here, in Afghanistan. Once again. Look when you get tot the airport you see the white flags everywhere. And here's Ibrahim Peace be upon you, Jehad welcome for the second time. We came 2 years ago, and we're back now. But things have changed. Everything, even the government. We've arrived in Kabul. It's a different feeling There's a feeling of comfort and peace It's different. I was scared the first time I came. And now? Now, things are good I feel like among my people. When the U.S forces and America left They called it the conquest of Kabul They used to live in mountains and now, how do you feel? you used to be in the mountains now you're in the city you are ruling, you can travel Now, we know what life is really like before the independence of Kabul we knew nothing about this life for 2 years now we can go all around Afghanistan freely and to go to all provinces. That's after the conquest of Kabul. - It was a great achievement. The return of Taliban to ruling They changed the country and there will be change because it was all corrupted. after sundown prayer people couldn't get out of their houses in Kabul. - Before? It's because we fought a lot to get our freedom for 20 years - 20 years, right? They fought for 20 years for this freedom. For freedom and to establish and Islamic system. There was no peace in this country before. I was scared when I came here. This is the U.S embassy, it's empty. Look, it's empty. Not only that there's a NATO base inside it. This is the U.S embassy It's gone. Written on the U.S embassy walls The Afghan people defeated America with God's help. They lost The defeat of America. They're unable There are a lot of mountains Afghanistan is all mountains this country is invincible. Taliban is invincible. Check out the map. - Can we get in? The abandoned U.S embassy a video title! Personally, I went into it many times and we used to play football there Played football in the U.S embassy?! In the U.S embassy yes, after the afternoon prayer. and the fighters are still playing football in it. You're very nice people. Let's get to know the future of the Islamic Emirate Our future is a prosperous one, brother. He said it's prosperous, they have oil and collaborations with some countries like China. Not only with China we want to establish good ties with all countries. Yes. - Do you know who's house is this? Siraj Eddine Hakani Minister of the interior. These walls are long They built them as they were scared of suicide bombers. They set up these walls as they were scared from Taliban then they left why were they here? The Islamic Emirate. And the flag has changed It was changed to a white flag A white flag, written on it "There's no God but Allah, and Mohammad is his prophet". They have a chance to prove themselves. Look, we have a drone permit It's an official country You'll get a permit of you demand it. In some countries... We'll begin the story from here. From the Kingdom of Afghanistan to the Republic of Afghanistan and the power struggle between political parties. The kingdom of Afghanistan has become a republic. to the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan to the fighters resistance to the Soviet invasion and the communist government of Afghanistan To the defeat and withdrawal of USSR from Afghanistan with the communist Afghan government. To the struggle for power between the fighters to the creation of Taliban by the students of Islamic science In Pakistan, from the Pashtun and the beginning of Taliban rule over Kabul. to 9/11/2001 To the American occupation of Afghanistan bringing down Taliban and Taliban's relocating to the mountains and the fight began against America and its allies and the Afghan government appointed by the U.S for 20 years to the defeat and departure of the U.S and conquest of Kabul and the return of Taliban to rule. All these policemen are from Taliban? Yes. Oh my God! Afghanistan Kabuli Pulao You're all Pashtun? Pashtun, yes. I'm from a Pashtun tribe And from the Uzbeks We're all brothers That racism is gone Yes, indeed. Okay, so now - Taliban means students? Students, yes. Students of religious schools. - So, you're a student? These intersections used to be named after leaders of the war Taliban changed them to the names of the companions of the prophet (PBUH) and the names of the Caliphs and the followers. We're at the top at the peak of Kabul. The Islamic Emirate they set it here, I'm fascinated with the details. and here's the Dome of the Rock (replica) Peace be upon you. Mashallah Palestine Mashallah. Peace be upon you. - Kabul. He's gonna slaughter a chicken? - No, no! Thanks, no, no! He said because you came to Afghanistan. No, please don't! A chicken, and someone slaughters a lamb for me Everybody's inviting me What's going on?! Before, people couldn't walk on the street like this. I came 2 years ago and couldn't walk here at night. In the name of Allah. But you can see suffering in their eyes. They're Isolated from the world. This is the hotel we'll stay in tonight. 5 stars. It's a big hotel. A cafe, okay. Look, in the middle of the street. Can you imagine where they got? They have a market called Mujahideen (Fighters) market It's an advanced stage of self-sacrifice. So, you can buy any of these weapons Of course by the government. Also, you can find Taliban uniform here. The state's official uniform. It's the weapons market where they also fix them. They're ready. They're all armed! I don't belong here. They're always in a state of war But how will the Taliban government after 20 years of war manage this country? It may take time. A young man told us yesterday "I don't know what to do, I want to fight" Their clothes are nice. Look. Personal guards. This is another uniform. They're trying to prove themselves But they still can't prove themselves they're still not recognized by any country. It's all for the military? It's all for the system The system? Their pictures are everywhere. We're in downtown. The Afghan people are so nice. There used to be many political parties and they used to be divided but now, the difference is that there's only Taliban ruling they took control and secured the place they succeeded in letting people walk outside safely. Taking control of a destroyed country with more than 20 years of power struggle. Peace be upon you. This is the phone market. peace be upon you. It's not all fixed yet traffic is not organized cars almost don't have license plates. It needs international assistance. A marginalized population. It's a normal day in Afghanistan. Anyone sets his cart in the middle of the street The come to him with a whip and... they whip him. They don't warn him for a violation. Talking doesn't work. We're in Kabul In Bazar Mandai it is the largest market in Kabul. I was born in Saudi Arabia I came to Afghanistan about 5 years ago. I've lived here before and during the Islamic Emirate. Before, our lives were in danger explosions and thieves and bandits Now, after the Islamic Emirate took over Afghanistan things got better by 80% Tea? They invited us for tea. It's a wonderous country. Okay we're in a Soviet tank. From here, if you can see we're in... a castle called Bala Hissra Look at this Soviet Union tank. It's here, they put it there with a view of Kabul. All the city of Kabul you can see the flag over there. and the U.S forces here You can see the leftovers of the Soviets and the leftovers of the U.S They left and the owner of the land stayed in his land. This place used to be a Palace for anybody ruling Afghanistan The Moguls used to be here first Because it has a view of all of Kabul and because it is the place that all previous rulers of Afghanistan ruled in. From here, all rulers, even the Moguls. This is life in malls of Afghanistan. You can't withdraw using international cards VISA or Mastercard as there are no international banks only local banks. Now, we're going to a nearby area To see a bridge that used to be called Pablo Escobar bridge. Can you imagine that under this bridge there's a hole inside it, people who used to die here were piled up inside. Can you imagine?! It's like piling up juice boxes. That's the opening. They say that this bridge is now called the bridge of happiness. In this place they used to sell drugs and use them in all their shapes and forms. We use drugs here. But when Taliban came they totally destroyed the poppy industry "This is one of the poppy fields in the area of Zahari" Afghanistan used to cultivate poppies that opium is extracted from. More than Latin America more than coca in Latin America in Columbia and Peru. It used to be the world's largest weed producer. Now, we're in a shop right next to the bridge right on top of it. This guy was here for a long time Ask him how it used to be here. He said 2 years ago in this place it used to be scary. You can't walk here at night from the smell of drugs and also the risk of being harmed. In the second part we'll try to know where did the women disappear to and why there's no schools for girls. and we'll go into a graduating school for Taliban. To join Taliban you have to graduate from this school. We'll get into their palace and sit with Taliban's most prominent figures In the U.S, I was in Guantanamo. The ministers. A ministry of defense official. and leaders in the army of defense.