Rasheed: Hi there. It's Rasheed Finch, and welcome back I'm glad you came here to join us on who work on our devices and services. And today, we're talking that I'm sure many of It's the smart home, pioneer over the last decade or so. And now we're at the start you'll learn all about in this episode. Now, if you haven't yet, make sure so you don't miss the next ones So products for the are smart speakers that smart lights that set the mood, or even smart locks that lock these products can improve our But honesty zone for a haven't always been the easiest Our guests today can help us and how we can make the smart Please welcome directors of Home, Karen Yao and Anish Kattukaran. Anish and Karen, welcome to Anish: Hey, Rashid. Nice to get a chance to talk with you. Karen: Thanks for having us here. Rasheed: Absolutely, great to see you. Let's start at the beginning. How did you end up at Google? Maybe, Karen, start with you. Karen: Well, before I joined Google, And I did that for a number of years. And then at Google, I first And during that time, I bought a home that were installed by from Nest thermostats and motion sensors and security cameras. And that's when I discovered this And so when I saw an opportunity I jumped at it. And that's why I'm here. Rasheed: Wonderful, we should to have you on the team. Anish, how about you? How did you end up at Google? Anish: Oh, I've had a somewhat I did not start in tech. So I actually started a nonprofit After college, I did two startups. And I kind of stumbled into And after stint in ads found my way to Google Home and Nest. I think the through line though I've been super Fun fact, in my closet today, of drawers of just old gadgets that all affectionately call Rasheed: Right. Anish: This includes to my first iPod to my first BlackBerry. I had one of the first Nest thermostats This was even before I was at Google. And that really sort of of just loving gadgets in the home. So when this opportunity came up to it was just sort of my dream job, right? I get to play, but I get Rasheed: That's amazing, like a I'd love to see that one day. My guests today are working on They're both directors of product But it's fair to say they different ends of the spectrum. Karen Yao originally on operating systems that just cannot Today, she works on matter. And as she'll explain in detail, it's to talk to each other. Anish Kattukaran first worked on But today, it's about which includes the Google Home app Anish wants to make the smart and and work for everyone, of this or a smart home veteran. He'll tell you all about the future of And he'll also explain why there is a Talking to Karen and Anish made I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. Listeners of the podcast know that I of all the Googlers we have. And then every Googler has this So just wanted to check, build the most delightful for the Google Home platform. So I think most people But what's the Google Home platform? Anish: Yeah, if you take a quick is to deliver the helpful home. So we talk here at Home a home that takes care of the people And what that really entails for both our users and the devices that we build here at that a user might have in their home. So think of the Google Home platform and developer tools, APIs, are building to actually Rasheed: Great, and then your highlight is, happy, So tell us about that. Karen: Yeah, so as Anish had said, And when you think about it, And there is so much to do We can't really build it all And so at Google, we Like, we see the value And if you look at, for example, which is one of the world's developers bring not only scale, They create these experiences that you you can't live without. And so we really want to on the home experiences for people. And to do that we have The first is we have to give them the quickly and cost effectively on Google. And then we also want to on Google so they can create for their customers. And if we succeed on help them grow their businesses on and deepening their engagement Rasheed: Perfect, so normally, we talk about the future. But I thought maybe it's interesting because the smart home is on a journey. And I'm really wondering, Anish, what is the And I'll ask Karen the Anish: Yeah, listen, the term is sort of a loaded term, right? I think we've been our devices, many of the appliances quote unquote, &quot;dumb.&quot; They sort of all operate being connected to the internet. And even just that next phase of meant you could do things that You could control but still very contained So as I think about the next it's really less about an being able to be And really, what it's about is bringing into this even playing field where And when you do that, to be able to realize that earlier about this helpful home. It's really only helpful if they can your life a little bit better, to to make you feel a little That's what the promise It's not just, can I But really, does it make your life And then once we get when we actually realize for smart home and the helpful home. Rasheed: And, Karen, how far along Karen: I would say we're There's a lot of And we'll talk about this later. But there's a launch of this And we think that that will really and innovation. Rasheed: So we'll get to I think as Anish said, I'll probably hear people talk robot butlers, all these Anish: I'm ready for it. One of my favorite cartoons as a kid. That's why I'm here. Just doing that. Rasheed: Yeah, we want to recreate So when is a home a smart home? Like, if I have a smart am I now a smart home user customer? Is that the minimum to be a smart home? How should I look at this? Karen: Yeah. Anish: I think in today's context, like a reasonable definition for me. Now, what Karen and painting the picture of where we or where it should be or So I think yeah, by today's got one or a handful in fact, connected to the internet, that We think that it can be significantly And that's what we're working on. Karen: Yeah, and I just I think the whole Jetsons But I also really love And so I think the real happens when we take ordinary items We're already on that path, a but a doorbell that tells me blinds that automatically open and it's bright out. So I think that's where we'll have is when we bring these make them way better and more helpful. Anish: I think what Karen's is another really is, if you look at the home today, that are somewhat personal, right? You've got your phone. You've got your tablet. You've got your watch. These are your computing devices Rasheed: Sure. Anish: And guess what, they happen to at home. But they're not home devices, right? And then somewhat separately, there's a You've got another collection of devices And they all have their own languages, And they operate separately. And I think as you look to the that Karen's describing is this wall between mobile computing and actually breaks down, where and you have this reality of ambient and because your phone knows it's able to adjust things in your like Karen just said, And that's the idea that and your kettle and your blinds and your And they can all talk to each other. Rasheed: So what is, for you that all these technologies combined, of course, made possible, because like they're way in the future. But maybe some of these things Karen, anything you have in your mind when it comes to smart home? Karen: Yeah, so I'm a super-busy mom. And I remember talking with the And so for me, when I I think about all the It helps me save money, for instance. It keeps my energy bill down. It helps me save time. It helps me to keep my family safe. But most of all, I think me reduce all the tedious little the mental burden that you have to like when the cleaners someone is coming to repair something. And so I find a lot of with doing all the small to spend quality time with my family. Rasheed: Right, that It's just offloading and making sure the Anish, I'm sure your BlackBerry doesn't Any other devices that will help you get Anish: Yeah, sadly, my love affair Rasheed: Yeah. Anish: But with two little very different schedules every morning. And it changes every So rather than basing this we actually have a that effectively, it starts when we So when that motion sensor recognizes instantly, it starts the series that, kind of what Karen mentioned, and just automates them So it automatically starts to In the kitchen, it actually jazz from music on all of our speakers. It turns the kettle on really enjoy having tea in the morning. And then this last But it actually gradually starts of the lights in our kids' room. And so even before we to increase its signals to them. It's time to wake up. And we're going to start Rasheed: Now, I am absolutely and thinking, I want this. But they might fear that savvy to actually implement all of this. Is that true? It's the smart home still only Karen: Well, I think tends towards users who are more about technology. And that has definitely evolved over But still, I think for reaching a broader audience. And that starts with even how people Like today, you go to a special section. And it's the smart And where we really should get to that you buy. When you're looking at bulbs, what And then I think the second is a steeper learning curve, currently. There are more steps involved, a smart device and getting it to work. And I think that's why we're so excited launched recently called Matter, be simpler and easier to use. And so by doing that, it will face in adopting smart home technology. And it'll bring new segments of Rasheed: And I guess another part Home app that's in preview right now. How important is that app in Because I guess that's the first How important is it? Anish: Yeah, starting with where are we in the is how I heard that question. I think we're somewhere in the middle. I think it used to be a lot harder. It has got easier. We are still not at the point where it's And so I think that's the role that playing, which is to make just so simple that you I spent the last couple of years-- love the value of the smart home. But I've had to be the So I've gone to literally every and been the one that sets up And so I think we'll be successful support for every member of my family. And so if you can buy a and if you can buy a thermostat and and just set it up yourself without or anything like that And that's the role that I see as So Matter, which Karen will just standardize how all The layer on top of that is where Assuming that all these how do we make it super, How do we make it really, How do we make it really, really whether they're Nest devices or devices of other manufacturers, you can do all of that really easily? That's what we're trying to get to. And we think we've taken a pretty With the rapidly growing number it was very clear to us that there model to organize your home. The devices you have in very different than what I have. I've got a bunch of lights, You might have a fridge. You might have some blinds and a kettle. So there really wasn't going to be a way this is the model for your home. You spend so much time today designing and reflect what you have in your home. And we wanted that to as well, where everyone was able to in their home to suit So we ended up focusing on four things. So we said, we want a for all of your devices We wanted to have a really delightful So a big part of our is we've built these beautiful cameras And we wanted to bring The third one was really easier, and more helpful So you've got smart devices. But the magic really happens when can combine to do something And then the last piece of was to make sure that your Home was on So you didn't have to For example, if you're out on the home is cool when you're back, directly from your wrist on your watch. Rasheed: Amazing, and really I noticed my coffee maker appeared So just got to link until my alarm So all right, we'll But first, we get into is the section we have podcast, where we ask a number that is either important to So wondering, probably both Karen, what is the number Karen: Yeah, so the number that I So 80,000 is a number of devices that And with Matter, that number will grow. And so I love this number because for transforming the whole and improving their quality that we have never thought of before. And this is something that we can And so that's exciting to That's part of what is if we can improve people's lives. And at the same time, the complexity that we need to tackle to And that's where our vision comes in, giving users just talked about, to seamlessly across many surfaces. Rasheed: Right, so 80,000 But it's only the beginning, right? Maybe if we have another that number will be quite a bit bigger. Anish, what's the number Anish: I brought 25. Rasheed: Just 25. Anish: Just 25, but let So 25 because when we app nearly 10 years had fewer than three smart devices, Rasheed: Right. Anish: And what we is that the average US household And it's actually growing It's not that this was I think it's something like like two to three years. So we're on this massively And again, with Matter, will just start to become smart without So we're fully expecting that to grow pretty dramatically. Rasheed: All right, well, the word We got to dive into that. Matter launched, I think, First, Karen, I have to ask you, are play on the word matter in press? Karen: No, not at all because Rasheed: Right. I didn't want to say it, So well, let's get right into it then. What is Matter and why Karen: Yes, so Matter is a universal by a consortium of hundreds of Standards Alliance, or CSA. Google is very active in also includes companies such and many device many factors. So all of us came to basically improve the smart So you can think of matter for how smart home to each other over Wi-Fi or thread. Bluetooth is also involved if into the matter network in your home. At its essence, Matter that guarantees your be able to communicate with each other. And so even if they're not they'll work well together. So as long as you have a device you know that it will work with So that's going to really simplify Currently, users have to think about, they need to think about the Is it a Google Home? Is it Amazon Alexa? And then they need to find a device And now they have the assurance it works with their system at home, supports Matter. And then there are other benefits too. Matter is a local protocol. And so that means we don't to ask the partner to, let's say, And so then that improves the speed and as well as the reliability. And then, because I'm the developer lead And Matter is game-changing for if you're building a device and you and you want to integrate you basically had to do separately so that your device could And now you only need to build And that frees up your time so you great new features for your users. Rasheed: All right, so the easier for developers, easier for me and buy a Matter thing. And that's all I need to think about. So that's great. But what we discussed previously can be pretty hard sometimes Is Matter going to help to set up the devices Karen: Yeah, absolutely. So beyond interoperability, look at how Google is setup is a big part of our strategy. So our goal is to make smart home and consistently across So we've integrated system itself, which runs on 3 billion And we've also integrated So when the user just plugs in hey, we've detected that Would you like to set it up? And the user can set that Rasheed: Is that like when I get my hey, you got new earphones? That's the way it works? Karen: Exactly, it's the same Rasheed: That's great. And then, Karen and Anish, working together in a way, one of and making sure Google And then, Anish, you need to make appears in the Google Home app for Anish: Yeah, absolutely, across generally across our ecosystem. For me, obviously, Karen and her team Working together is the first step. Getting smarter and more helpful, And so Matter will help But then how we enable and have these devices so that when my body is feeling a little It can tell the temperature of my body. And I've got a smart thermostat, which But what we want to get to is, my watch It just, without me thinking makes me more comfortable. That's what I want in the smart home I don't want a bunch of So that's the kind of stuff Like, we're going to build a standard, And the experiences are these magical things where and your needs are just met. Rasheed: Now, I get also why you in the early stages of smart home. So now we're having that standard who is participating in the smart home. And then once we have we can truly work on the intelligence. Now, Karen, what I'm wondering to create this one language, It seems to me might so many different companies with to play. How do you get everyone everyone speak the same language? Karen: Yeah, that is so true. I mean, even if you and our job as product managers, let's say 10 people, to And so how do you do that when it's potentially compete with each other. They don't normally work together. And so I think the ambition of unifying the language of how that was so compelling that it And there have been But in the end, we did it. And Matter launched Rasheed: So now help me understand. I do have a Nest Hub. I have the new Nest Wi-Fi Pro. And it also supports Thread, I think. And now I'm confused. What is that, and why does Karen: Yes, so Matter is a protocol that So Thread is a wireless protocol for to talk directly with each other. And interestingly, I think &quot;Time&quot; was one of the best inventions of 2022. So Thread has been around since 2015. And Google was one of the And we've been using it in millions And so we're super-excited of Thread starting to expand rapidly. So how does Thread differ from Wi-Fi? Thread is used for low-bandwidth such as locks and sensors, whereas such as cameras. So there are several benefits to Thread. They're ideal for devices that are to sleep for a long time, wake go back to sleep so that they And so this low-power really helps achieve that battery life. And then secondly, Thread creates So there is no single point of failure. And that leads to better Rasheed: Right, so I don't want to have But many other devices might every so often because of Thread. Karen: Exactly, you don't want on your locks or sensors all the time. Rasheed: That's right. So we started conversation Maybe we can go back And Anish, I know you mentioned of all the devices that work together. So how do we get there once matter How do you get to that next step? Anish: We talked a evolution that we're seeing went from not connected to connected. So today, when we say smart home, for hey, my kettle is now My dryer is now connected My Roomba is connected to the internet. And what that means is, I can go into and it turns it on. Awesome, right? That's still really, really cool, I can turned my lights on just The intelligence happens when all of and they can do things proactively. Like, your needs of the home When you ask people, oh, A good chunk of people are like, What I want is to feel comfortable. What I want is something to help so I spend more time on So when Karen and I and our we want the home to be helpful. We want it to be proactive. So to get there, it's being able I've got a Pixel Watch that can I've got a Nest thermostat that Smart intelligence is out, without me even thinking about it. I'm sitting on the couch Anish is getting a little bit warm. Let's adjust the thermostat down to That's the kind of intelligence-- It's the smart home That's what we're trying to get to. Rasheed: Karen, what about Do we have anything to say about Is that fairly soon? Anything to say there? Karen: Oh, yes, so our devices Matter on a variety of dimensions. So if you look at a to ensure that they're ready when they start appearing on devices are upgraded to Matter. Rasheed: Right. Karen: And so we will be adding support and Nest Wi-Fi to support Matter. So this means that they can then talk We've also enabled Thread border And that includes Nest Hub Max, Nest And then on the receiving end of the we'll be enabling Matter Now, the Matter standard, And so it doesn't cover types that are out there. So the first set will locks, thermostats, lights, and blinds. And so as the consortium adds then we will think about how to that are part of those end devices. Rasheed: Right, I guess It evolves over time, right? And that will be able to support All right, we've reached where we ask our guests to bring they like. Really wondering, starting with you thought about for this episode. Karen: Yeah, I think when you the realm of possibilities are so vast And so in a sense, I Everyone becomes a product manager in are the other people in their their spouse, their kids. And so my top tip of the to come up with interesting and to also show them how to build they're not quite right. That way, everyone can benefit So there have been times, for example, It's quiet. And then suddenly, a voice Home speaker reminding me to do And she set that up. And it's actually pretty funny. But it's actually pretty helpful. So that would be my top tip of the day. Rasheed: That is great. And I feel great knowing that I am in my own home, because Anish, any top tips from you? Anish: One tip that I had was, I have And they are probably of the smart devices in my home who are significantly older. So my top tip is, if you've can control all of your probably put it out of so they know what they're doing. But yeah, jokes aside, would be, in the context of Google We are listening. Give us feedback. We want to make sure that we're building And so my top tip is, sign Some things will be great, we hope. And then other things work on, share that going to make things better for you. Rasheed: Well, it sounds for the smart home coming in Home app and thanks to Matter. So Karen and Anish, thank you so podcast. Karen: Thank you so much Anish: Yeah, Rasheed, Rasheed: Well, I don't know about you, devices to get software how my home will get and more intelligent over time as well. So a big thank you to the hard work And let's not forget the whole that are making Matter come to life. Oh, wow, and I said all of that Join us next week on another podcast, where we'll talk about but too often forgotten, accessibility. Technology is at its best So let's find out how Simply subscribe or follow And we'll hear from you Take care wherever you are. I'll talk to you soon. Again, bye-bye.