According to Promise Written by Charles H. Spurgeon Chapter 1 Examine me, O LORD and prove me; melt It is very important to be able to distinguish cannot always rely upon appearances. Things which each other. A scorpion may be like an egg, and a far from being the same. Like may be very unlike. and therefore it requires us to be on our guard. in their sins. They may look very much like wrath. Many unconverted people have beliefs and yet they do not have true faith. Certain the warmth of spiritual love, but are quite empty even as jewels can be imitated. As glass so imitation graces are marvelously like the work a man will need to have all his sense about It is to be feared that many are already mistaken open their eyes in the eternal world, where A child dead in sin due to his sinful human but this will not make the child a living child an infinite difference between the person who to make sure that we have this life. Are YOU sure that you have Him? Peace, peace; when there is no peace (Jeremiah things for yourself, to make your heart at and to never wake out of sleep until the sound presumption and into endless horror. spiritually. I want you to go further abundance of grace that your holy and happy The first part of this little book is meant wheat. Use it on your own soul. It may be the ever done. He who looked into his accounts was saved from bankruptcy. This may happen your heavenly business is prospering, it will honestly searching your own heart. Chapter 2 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the he who was of the bondwoman was born according through the promise. (Galatians 4:22-23) were beyond all dispute genuine sons of Abraham. while the other was simply a prosperous man two were! They were born in the same society, traveled in the same encampment with him. while Isaac was the heir of the promise. How A more remarkable instance than this happened a the same mother at the same birth, yet it is hated (Romans 9:13). One became gracious, and the and yet they can be widely separated! Truly, it is the one shall be taken, and the other shall that two will come into the world at the same inheritance with God, and the other will sell in the same church with others, baptized in the singing the same psalm, and offering the same cultures as different as the offspring of the Abraham's two sons are declared by Paul to be the and yet widely differ. They are unlike in but Ishmael, the child of Hagar, was the offspring after the flesh. Isaac, the son of Sarah, for his father was more than a hundred years old, was given to his parents by the Lord, and was born a critical distinction, and it distinguishes the a child of God. The promise lies at the bottom accomplish the promise creates and maintains the inheritance, is also our test and benchmark. the power which fulfills the promise has How were you converted? Was it by yourself, by the it by the working of the Spirit of God? You did that new birth come? Did it come from God in or did it come out of yourself? Was it your old up to its best form? If so, you are Ishmael. dead and having no strength whatsoever were visited by the Spirit of God who put heaven to enter into you? Then you are Isaac. spiritual life and the source from which that life continued in the flesh, you will die in the flesh. born of the flesh is flesh? Before long, the corruption. Only that which is born of the Spirit and from that you will reap life everlasting. I urge you to ask yourself: Have I Is the life that is within you the result of the something new, infused, imparted, and implanted creation? Have you been created anew in Christ Ordinary religion is human nature dressed up grace. Sinners have polished themselves up and and they think their old nature is as good the old nature is all very well, but it falls and hands of Ishmael as much as you please, but your human nature, and the more you do so the but you cannot change it into grace. There is a which rises in the bog of fallen humanity and Do not forget that our Lord Himself said, Ye must born again from above, all your church or chapel tears, your Bible readings, and all that have come Water will naturally rise as high as its source, will rise to human nature, but it cannot reach or supernatural? Was it of the will of man or of or was it something that God did in you? Much Between the true child of God and the mere distinction as to origin. Isaac was born according but was of the course of nature. Where nature's human energy fails, the word of the Lord comes Sarah. Abraham believed God's promise and rejoiced promise, by the power of God. There could have and there can be no true believer apart from the Let me now inquire as to your salvation. Are you the product of your own natural strength? salvation may require? Do you conclude yourself your natural excellence and moral ability? and the inheritance will not come to you, the flesh, but according to the promise. like this: &quot;My hope lies only in the promise of of His Son, Jesus, to every sinner who believes in believe that the Lord will fulfill His promise not as the result of my own efforts, but as the completely upon the free and gratuitous love of Jesus Christ, to put away sin and to bring in deserve it.&quot; If you speak from the heart like from that of the Ishmaelites, who say, We You have now learned to speak as Isaac speaks. but it is great indeed. Hagar, the slave-mother, the princess. To the one there is no covenant forevermore. Salvation by works is one thing; human strength is the opposite of salvation by the opposite of salvation by the promise of God. family you belong. Are you of Ishmael or of Isaac? born according to the promise, remember that interpretation of the Hebrew name Isaac. Take full of glory. Your new birth is a wonderful at the thought of Isaac, you may certainly do if I sit alone and think of the grace of God to I am ready to laugh and cry at the same time for and favor upon me. Yes, and every child of God within his soul, filling his mouth with laughter, Notice carefully the difference between the two of man, and by man. Isaac comes by God's promise. Abraham's child too, but then the power of parents it is made clear that Isaac is of the is certainly the act of the one who believes, repents; yet both faith and repentance may with of God, even as Isaac is the son of Abraham and The Lord our God, who instructs us to believe, is acceptable to God is because the Lord works working. No religion is worth one cent that is and yet it must be beyond question the work O friend, if what you have within you is natural, work must be supernatural. It must come from life of grace will be your own, even as Isaac was be of God, for salvation is of the Lord. We must feelings and actions, we must be able to say, Chapter 3 Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham, are That is, Those who are sons of the flesh, these the promise are counted in the generation. For the come, and Sara shall have a son. (Romans 9:7-9) and so there was a difference in their nature mainly seen in their relation to the promise. which comes from it. In the case of the man who be only what nature gives him; but in the case of there will be signs following. Scripture: who of God is made unto us wisdom and that, according as it is written, He that glories, There will be in the born-again man that natural man there will be nothing of the kind. of Abraham along with some natural characteristics his father, and he inherited the patriarch's noble and was in the succession as to a holy, inward remained with his father, Abraham, while Ishmael sought a companion from his ancestral lineage in wife out of Egypt, which was very natural, since that which is familiar and comfortable to us. for his life was filled with things of God; but cared for earthly things. Meditation is not for every man's hand against him. Isaac surrendered like that in Ishmael. Self-sacrifice is not for instead of a lamb that presents itself to God. and taught and become &quot;pious,&quot; as they call it, Holy Spirit, you will not live the life of a outward characteristics of a Christian. You may and maybe even tell a little bit about an to know the reality and certainty of the truth secret with the living God, and the surrendering The child of the promise abides with God's numbered with them. The child of the promise one can see him or be seen by him, but when the with him. The child of the promise, and he there to be bound upon the altar and to yield this, that only he who is born of the Spirit will better than life itself. Your nature and conduct I pray that you may begin right, so that as you may prove to be an actual trueborn heir. of the bondwoman, must always bear the mark of a Ishmael was not and could not be what Isaac was - say that Ishmael ever wanted to be like Isaac. than Isaac because he was different from Isaac; for self-salvation by his own works, feelings, condition as a slave. He may even boast that he and yet he spends his whole life in servitude. to be content, or what delight in God means. &quot;full assurance of faith,&quot; and he concludes that breathe between all his works of the flesh. He has suffered so much, but he must suffer so much more. the people of God (Hebrews 4:9), for he is born of On the other hand, he who is born of the free the grace of God from beginning to end, He does not take it back, for the gifts and 11:29) - such a man accepting the finished work beloved (Ephesians 1:6) rests in the Lord and are filled with joy and peace, for he was born Do you understand the freedom of the child of afraid of punishment, afraid of being sent away or are you still depending upon your own works you have not received the promise, or you would child of the promise, the heritage belongs, and Those who are born as Ishmael was, according to their own power and strength, are concerned with born from above through the promise according to The naturally religious man cares for earthly worship, but while he is there, he thinks of enjoy the worship of God? No! There is a sermon. which is able to save his soul (James 1:21)? No! He gives his money to the cause of God as others to quiet his conscience and keep up his good God? By no means. If he did, he would give more the progress of the kingdom of God. Does he mourn find him alone with God pouring out his heart in those who are not converted to God? Did you ever converted - an exultation because the kingdom of All the service of God is outward to him. He has things, and he never can. The carnal mind, even it is not reconciled to God, and indeed cannot created in the man. He must become a new creature understand, and enjoy spiritual things. born again (John 3:7) - we must be born of the being made alive from our death in sin. We cannot inner life of the Spirit. Ishmael will be Ishmael, his conduct be. The man of sight and reason but only the child of the promise will rise &quot;Those are some hard and fast lines,&quot; someone those hard lines drawn, and drawn very straight track for eternity. The other day someone hear Mr. Spurgeon, and when I went into the I would have said that I was as religious a man certainly, as was ever part of a congregation; that day. I came out of the place with every most wretched sinner on the face of the earth, and for he has destroyed me altogether. Yes,&quot; that could have happened to me. I was made to and look to God and to His omnipotent pass under my Creator's hand again, or I hope you know this truth for yourself. It is a so He must make us over again, or else His glory. We must come under the influence or our lives will never be guided by right Chapter 4 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, will multiply him exceedingly; he shall beget nation. But I will establish my covenant with set time in the next year. (Genesis 17:20-21) so different in their birth and nature as their hopes. To Isaac, the covenant promise but for Ishmael, no such light had arisen. Ishmael of one of the greatest of men; but Isaac looked of the promise and the inheritor of the covenant Ishmael, with his high and daring spirit, looked a race untamable as the wild donkey of the desert; Bedouin Arabs are to this day true copies of their the narrow, earthly hopes for which he looked, and died in the hope of glory, his name is not even to the day of Christ. Scripture: He whose builder and maker is God (Hebrews 11:10). had his best things here below; but Isaac, like future. His treasures were not in the tent and (Hebrews 11:7). He had received the great covenant all the flocks of Nebaioth could minister to him. and he expected a full noon of blessing in the operated upon him as to guide the direction with you? Have you received and embraced the hoping for things not seen as yet? Have you an eye the faithfulness of God? Have you exchanged the the way of faith in the unseen and eternal? the enjoyment of its hopes influenced the of a restful spirit. For him there were no and waited for the future. Isaac felt that it was for God to bless him and to fulfill and so he remained with Abraham and kept He both quietly hoped and patiently waited for on the great nation yet to come, the promised in whom all the nations of the earth would be to God alone, wisely judging that He who gave Because of this faith, Isaac was still active, that was so apparent in Ishmael. He was energetic and a quiet submission to His supreme will. Year bravely faced the danger unarmed that arose Ishmael confronted with his sword and with his Touch not my anointed, and do my prophets no and yet he lived as securely as his warlike of security, and it gave him security itself, The promise affects our present life by creating surroundings, and a calm and heavenly frame of God. Yahweh was his shield and his exceeding of land to call his own, dwelling as a sojourner by promise, Isaac was content to live upon the His remarkably quiet and steady spirit, while great Pilgrim Fathers, sprang out of his simple kindled by a divine promise, affects the entire and feelings. It may seem to be of less importance of vital importance, not only in itself, but also and life. The inner hope of a man is a truer test any one day, or even the public devotions of a grew old and blind and gently fell asleep trusting had called him to be His friend. God had said to and will bless thee; and in thy seed shall all As a man's hopes are, so is he. If it is well, and it must be well with him. &quot;I am waiting until a relative dies, and then I person hopes in his steadily growing business. risky investment. Hopes that can be realized that have no outlook beyond the grave are dim who believes the promise and feels assured leaving all else in the hands of infinite conquer temptations, and enjoy heaven below. When He arose, they were confirmed. When He When He comes a second time, they will be sustenance and a table spread in the presence of we will possess the land which flows with where the sun will no more go down, neither Isaiah 60:20). Until then, we hope, and Chapter 5 Persecution and Children of the Promise are the children of promise. But as then persecuted him that was born according to the When brothers differ as much as Ishmael and and quarrel and indulge unkind feelings. Ishmael Isaac to be weaned, his mother, Sarah, saw the early on in their lives that the difference of This may serve to us as an indication of what we are heirs according to the promise. Those who those who are freely born by the gospel, and in We are not now thinking of the hostility but of that which exists between men of a merely of God. We are not speaking of the Philistines mocking him. Fiercest of all is this opposition born from above and worship God in spirit and suffered bitterly from the cruel hatred of those The motive of Ishmael was probably envy. He preeminence over himself. He seemed to say, &quot;This mocked Isaac's position as heir, and boasted that child of the promise could have. In the same way, profess to be Christians, envy the condition be quite as good as the best of those who are the grace of God themselves, and yet, like the dog have it. They envy the hope in Christ that these and their enjoyment of the favor of God. If any of The envy of Ishmael displayed itself most at the weaning. In the same manner do formalists - those alleged goodness - like the elder brother in the occasion for rejoicing in connection with the and dancing of the true family are bitterness and do not know true life in Christ Jesus. When a of salvation, and when a person of the world then the carnal religionist sneers and or murmurs with resentful sarcasm, &quot;Poor fools! who are religious but not truly regenerated, by their own merits, usually exhibit a bitter Sometimes they mock their feebleness. just weaned. Believers are sometimes feeble and those who think themselves to be strong-minded. and neither can believers deny that they which may put them under rightful reproof; but allow. The world mocks saints for weaknesses think it a strange thing if our insignificance and Pharisees jeering at us and our gospel. of the believer's assertions. Isaac was called it. &quot;Look,&quot; says the legalist, &quot;that man now he says he has believed in Jesus Christ, and be saved and accepted and sure of heaven. Did his chains hates the presence of a free man. proudly trusts his own merits is angry with Perhaps the little Isaac, the child of such young half-bred Egyptian. No person is so much above. To live by faith upon the promise of God the world, but it is not regarded in this way. On who believe in God and actually live according to mock foreigners, and men of the world still mock spirit and conduct. To us this is a testimony for the world would love its own; but because ye are world, therefore the world hates you (John 15:19). be unworthy to mention - the believer can be made he ought to be prepared to do so. After all, it for the fires of Smithfield are quenched, and not even a thumbscrew remains in use.1 be ridiculed, no bones will be broken, and not even your sleep will be disturbed.2 ten thousand proofs of the enmity which and the offspring of the Serpent. The mixture through his going down into Egypt and acting in Egyptian bondwoman was given to Sarah, and the evil hour, gave the bondwoman to her husband, No association of the unregenerate with the church in Abraham's encampment is still Ishmael. Today, unsaved in our communion of saints. These are teaching look like strangers in the churches doctrine. They make us foreigners in our own but they mock those who believe in the doctrines out-of-date people who ought to willfully seek trusts his God and believes in His covenant will the reproach of Christ greater riches than all no means shameful to trust God; on the contrary, Him who is faithful and true, and if they have yourselves, therefore, with a holy courage, you promise of God by faith. Was not the great Head not the rest of the brotherhood be conformed to If we are made partakers of Christ's sufferings, therefore, let us gladly join with Jesus Chapter 6 Nevertheless what does the scripture for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir Isaac and Ishmael lived together for a time. The may be members of the same church for years, but for their principles are essentially opposed. his spiritual manhood, he will be more and more and ultimately the two have no fellowship with word that will be fulfilled to the Ishmaelite: of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, Grievous as the parting may be, it will be to the necessities of the case. Oil and water man's religion agree with that which is born Their parting will be only the outward result Ishmael was sent away, but he soon ceased to the wild tribes of the country among whom he soon the father of princes. He was in his proper sphere name among its great ones. It often happens that habits and ways about him, and having a desire to becomes notable. The world is sure to love its his first friends, and openly declares: &quot;I have It was fine to hang around true Christians while I feel that I must mix with a more fashionable reward. Ishmael had his portion in this life and covenant and its mysterious blessings. If you than in the church of God, then know assuredly yourself. As your heart is, so are you. No amount or a person of the world into an heir of heaven. the promise did not appear to have the best of they who choose their heritage in the future have, Isaac experienced certain afflictions that was laid on the altar as a sacrifice, but nothing are the children of the promise, must not envy even though their circumstances might seem easier as the psalmist did when he was grieved because There is in this agonizing a measure of running agreed to take our reward in the future rather Moreover, how absurd it is to envy those who promise is practically to lose everything, and professors of Christianity have no spiritual light in the dark, to be so spiritually blind, and not respectable among people and comfortable in their if they are abominable in the sight of God. They no contention of the old man against the new, and knowing nothing of the truth until their end I say, do not envy them. Far better is the of Ishmael with its sovereignty and wild this world will soon be ended, and they will the eternal world to be the more miserable. are unhappy. If in this life only we had hope, we but the promise lights up our whole course smile seen by faith gives us fullness of greatest possible disadvantage, paint it not only comforts but also necessities, even the person of this world at his best. give him as many worlds as there are stars in is our duty still to take up our cross and to be as all our fathers in the faith were; for the we do, by faith, realize and embrace, and in it His people, we consider our situation far better children of this world. The prospect of our glory in fellowship with Him is sufficient to This difference on earth will lead to a sad be cast out in eternity as well as in time. None the right to be there by their own doings, or who Glory is reserved for those who are saved by there. What a terrible thing it will be when those who trusted in their religion and would not submit out! How they will then envy those lowly ones who Jesus! How they will discover their foolishness God by preferring their own righteousness As the people who are represented by Ishmael and upon which they rest must never be mingled, We cannot be saved partly by self and partly by earning salvation must be expelled from the mind. If we are so unwise as to place our dependence be resting one foot on a rock and the other on the dividing of the work or of the glory of salvation. God or all of man; but it cannot be half of one then is it not by works; otherwise, the grace then it is no longer grace; otherwise, Stop the useless attempt to unite two principles promise, and the promise alone, must be the the law and works and religion must be sternly grace. We must not begin in the spirit and hope Our Christianity must all be made of one piece. of linen and woolen mixed was forbidden to the useless for us to mix mercy and merit, grace and or feeling, or ceremonies comes in, we must cast us as Ishmael was to Abraham. Faith is not sight. We must never forget the distinction, lest we fall belongs only to the heirs according to promise. Knowing that a man is not justified by the works even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we by the works of the law; for by the works of the Here also is the clear line of distinction and we desire to keep it plain and evident: is a remnant by the gracious election of God. And the grace is no longer grace. But if it is of the work is no longer work. (Romans 11:5-6) Chapter 7 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from with whom is no variableness neither The Lord is always just and good toward His there was no necessity either in His justice grace to those who had rebelled against Him. Man which he may have thought he had. He has broken have obeyed. God owes nothing to man but the man based upon strict justice, He must condemn to a guilty creature must proceed only from of God. It must spring spontaneously from The promises of grace flow from the boundless not have proceeded from any other source. natural right to promises of blessing, nor God has made promises to us of His own motive but the love that lies within Himself. who in the process of time are found out by their are led by the Holy Spirit to choose God and His of the elect who come to years of circumspection in Him may conclude beyond doubt that they are of To those who live and die in unbelief, there they are not under grace, but under law, and to These people prefer another method of dealing and in the end, they perish as the result of their to relinquish the proud way of self and merit; unto their souls. To believe the Word of God and may seem like a small thing, but indeed it is of regeneration, and the mark of coming glory. To interests upon His promises demonstrates a heart the beginning of perfect holiness is present. Jesus, we believe all His promises. Confidence speaks, and so we accept all the promises of God promise and doubt another, but we rely upon each so far as it is with respect to our condition and to specific applications. He who has said that He since I believe in Him. Every blessing which He will bestow upon me as a believer. This is by which we live and are comforted. I will not God has freely promised it to me in Christ Jesus; One wonders at first glance why all seem as if this mark of divine election would and there is no reason to suspect Him of change so false is the heart of man, that man doubts not believe Him. It is the surest proof of man's falsehood to one who is truth itself. Scripture: because he does not believe the witness that Real, practical trust in the living God, easy practiced by an unrenewed heart. The glorious worthy of the trust of all mankind. One would washed at once in this cleansing fountain, in the divine Redeemer; but it is very far from that they may have life (John 5:40). They would Jesus. Until the Holy Spirit works a miracle the great sacrifice which God has provided So it is that this simple, commonplace matter the chosen of the Lord. No other mark is so eternal life (John 3:36). Feelings and actions may of a claim in the promise of God is faith in was counted unto him for righteousness (Romans patriarch's character, but this was the decisive of everything else that was commendable in him. contrast with virtuous action, but this contrast a fountain with its stream or is the mother of holiness, let the mother of and let it not be contrasted therewith. Such If people loved good works as much as they pretend God loves faith because it honors Him, and also which includes love for our fellow men. There is aspect the greatest of all good works, even as our shall we do that we might work the works of God? works, which the Lord approved above all others. is the work of God, that ye believe in him whom most divinely approved work possible is to believe climax of virtue. Proud men may sneer, but this to please God (Hebrews 11:6), but He that believes is made to those who believe the promise, and to promise are embraced by the promise. Those who truly believe are surely saved. Chapter 8 Whereby are given unto us exceeding great Observe that word given. Peter says, Whereby promises. We are indebted for everything to the we have, we have received as a gift, and all we For the wages of sin is death, but the grace (Romans 6:23). We are unable to earn anything from must be all a gift, a free gift, an undeserved promise of salvation is of the same nature. (Acts 20:35), and He who is most blest of all, much His nature to give as it is the nature of the are in being receivers! This is emphasized greatly receive things from God; for the things that we are lost now, and we will be lost forever. We and without peace, if we are without God. If God grace, then we are worse than naked and poor and It is not possible that we should deserve such these must come to us without money and a blessing of grace. We cannot demand that blessings which are wrapped up in it. Those dependent upon God have no reason for and grateful. We are beggars at the door of we sit down every day to ask for alms - not from As often as our Lord passes by, we ask and He from His love, for He has promised to bestow great daily bread (Matthew 6:11), and therefore we are Him. Ours is a life of dependence, and we delight the hands of our crucified Lord. Happy is the We earn nothing, and yet receive everything, gift of God. Whereby are given unto us exceeding Beloved, this teaching as to the promise being to all who feel their lost condition and who bankrupt. To such people it is a word of good by God. If God gives to us, then why would needy ones? Those of us who rejoice in God have others not receive the same? They say, &quot;There is receive God's mercy and love just as I have done? of the receiver is a recommendation instead of an Christ will be your merit. Come, you who righteousness. Come, you who are full of sin, and you who are utterly desolate, and be made rich and you will prosper in it; for I see you have a dig should not be ashamed to beg (Luke 16:3). A shoes, dirty and worn clothing - this is a dressed in this fashion spiritually? The poorer of divine charity. The less you have of your freely and without reproach (James 1:5). Weak and wounded, sick and sore; Full of pity, joined with power. He is willing; doubt no more. God's free bounty glorify; Every grace that brings us nigh, Come to Jesus Christ and buy. Bruised and broken by the fall; You will never come at all. Sinners Jesus came to call. Yes, it is all a gift. This is the gospel that we world that he gave his only begotten Son, that have eternal life (John 3:16). And this is the and this life is in his Son (1 John 5:11). On all receiving. The promise is already made, and it will be freely fulfilled. God does not price. No commission is payable upon receipt of His love is completely a gift. As a gift, you may by listening to any other terms. He gives that you can pay. It has been paid by His Son. to the poorest of the poor. Oh, that they would bell is ringing. It is ringing so that all who liberality may hear it and draw near. Freely, salvation and eternal life to all who believe on sure. Why is it that most do not believe it? given to all believers? Will you Chapter 9 Therefore he is able also to save to the seeing he ever lives to make Surely it is a wonderful thing that the eternal Before He pledged His word, He was free to do His truth and honor bind Him to do as He has His liberty, for the promise is always the pleasure. He always delights to act according to He stoops down to make covenants with us. He does made a covenant of grace with us in which He has word, but also by giving His oath. Scripture: impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong hold upon the hope set before us (Hebrews 6:18). all confirmed in Christ Jesus and established truthfulness. This is our hope, even as Paul which God, who cannot lie, promised God has promised, and on the faithfulness time and for eternity. We do not think it is promise of our faithful Creator. To help us but also written. People say they like to have it so in this case. Scripture: In the volume Hebrews 10:7). In the page of inspiration, the bound to rely upon the promises contained therein. they do not treat the promises of God as they regard it as a substantial thing and expect God are often viewed as simply words which do not and it is very harmful to ourselves. Rest he said and shall he not do it? (Numbers 23:19). the Lord's promises to him: For he has ordered in all things, and it shall be kept in due order and determination, and we may depend fulfilled as certainly as they are uttered. Have Can an instance be found in which our God has a single proof that the promise-making God of We admire fidelity in men, and we cannot of God. Therefore, we may safely count upon His Leberecht von Bl cher that when he was marching at Waterloo, his troops faltered. &quot;It can't be answer. &quot;I have promised to be there - promised, He was at Waterloo according to his word; he given. We praise such faithfulness. We would not the Lord God Almighty fail in His promise? No, He rather than not fulfill His word. He seems to do you hear?&quot; In order to keep His promise to it better that Jesus die than the word of it! The Lord means what He says, and He will though, none but the chosen seed will No matter who else will lie and deceive, God will be gathered together, it would be but as a drop God. The truthfulness of the most honest of men of God. The faithfulness of the most upright God is as a rock. If we trust in good men, we Why does it seem to be an unusual thing to to many to be a dreamy, sentimental, mystical the most matter-of-fact transaction that can be. all else is questionable. It is an absolute He be God? To believe God should be an act of the could be suggested, the simple and pure in and every man a liar (Romans 3:4). To give God of an honor justly due to His spotless holiness. and act upon it. Every honest person has a right truth deserve it. We ought to treat the promise just as we look upon someone's check or promissory passed from hand to hand in daily business as if and God's promises should be regarded in the same which we have asked of Him. He is worthy of our Let us regard the promise as a thing so sure be a main figure in all our calculations. The in Jesus. Therefore, if we really believe in and let us rejoice in the great privilege. The it is far more certain than dreams and visions more to be trusted than feelings, either believes on him is not condemned (John 3:18). I This is good reasoning, and the conclusion beyond all doubt. Nothing can be more certain than more certain to happen than that which He When a soul is under conviction, it perceives of belief which is very noticeable, since its overwhelming terror and dismay. Why should awareness? Why should they not be accepted with conscience that he that believes not shall with equal assurance that he that believes since the latter is as much the word of God as is to dwell upon the dark side of God's while at the same time neglecting the brighter as though it were too good to be true. This is receive if we measure it by our unworthiness, we judge things by His surpassing excellence. boundless blessing. If Alexander the Great gave We have sometimes heard people say, &quot;As &quot;As sure as life.&quot; Gracious things from God are Whosoever believes in Jesus shall not John 3:16). It must be so, for God's Word has Yes, the Lord means what He says. He never Why would He deceive His creatures and ask go beyond His word by giving more than it might of it. We may interpret His promises upon the largest supply which expectation can give to bounty of the Lord. Let us embrace the promise Let us even now rejoice in it as being the Chapter 10 But my God shall supply all your glory by Christ Jesus. (Philippians 4:19) believers. The substance of faith's heritage God are ours to have and to hold as our personal and they constitute our true riches. We enjoy but the main part of our wealth, the bulk God. That which we have in hand is only of grace which is to be paid to us in due time. necessary for this life and godliness, but His to come. Grace given to us from day to day is our home, but it is not our fortune. Providential but they are not the ultimate feast of love. We for the marriage supper of the Lamb (Revelation but our special treasure is hidden with Christ in to make this treasure ours is keeping it for us. claim in the promises. We may lose this joyful yet the eternal inheritance will still be man would have a copy of his title deed in his until by some misfortune his copy is stolen not the loss of his rights. He may not be but his claim to his property is not shaken. joint-heir with Christ, and there is no such events may tend to shake the believer's sense of (Romans 4:16). Our greatest possession does not receive from the promise, but in the promise secures for us. Our inheritance lies not on this within the borders of the present life; we see in that glorious day when our covenant Head shall Him. God's providence is our earthly pension, Did it ever occur to you to inquire why God have bestowed His blessings at once and without He would have eliminated the necessity of necessity in the nature of things for this plan the mercies we needed without promising to do firmness of purpose, could have secretly resolved without having made them the confidants of His from the time when the foundations of the world of blessing? Why is it that His dealings with His upon the terms of publicly expressed promises? place, we could not have been believers if there system of salvation is to be by faith, a promise The plan of salvation by faith is selected because and this involves the giving of promises, Faith without a promise would be like a foot if it could be called faith, would be unworthy of great evangelical directive, the promise becomes Moreover, it is a pleasant thought that our things that we may enjoy them twice: first by in giving by promise, and we also receive twice the fulfillment of many promises is not in time and the foreshadowing of the expected benefit long before it actually comes. scale in Old Testament saints. The great promise blessed was the basis of faith, the foundation of believers before the Son of God actually appeared my day, and he saw it and was glad (John 8:56). Christ through the telescope of God's promise, obtain the fulfillment of that promise, but Jacob, and many others of the saints did, yet and Christ to love and serve. Before He was Jesus was so seen by the faithful as to Savior before the Savior actually appeared. the promise, we enter into possession of we make the coming blessing present to us. Faith future things at once into its possession. the hallelujahs of heaven. We have not yet passed the street of transparent gold; but the promise of and yields us immediate foretastes of glory. grasp the palm of victory. We reign with Christ unfading crowns. Many, many times we have seen the from the promise. When faith has been vigorous, the land that flows with milk and honey; and no Celestial City, we have answered, &quot;Did we not seen enough by means of the promise to make prepared for those who love Him (1 Corinthians of the promised bliss and found therein a sure Do you not think that the promise is also intended are seen, and onward and upward to the spiritual of God has risen into quite another atmosphere valleys of daily life. Scripture: It is better It is better to trust in the LORD than to put indeed, it is; for it is more spiritual, more to this elevated trust by divine power, for Alas! We are held back by our idolatrous desire 2:21). We trust our senses, but we do not have which led Israel to cry in the wilderness, Make leads us to wish for something tangible by flesh We hunger for proofs, tokens, and evidences, and and more certain than all visible signs. So we which are visible, until we are driven to try invisible. Oh, it is a blessed thing for a child things for the rock of things eternal, by being Furthermore, the promises are a help to our hearts of God, when he believes the promise, is brought of those who diligently seek Him (Hebrews 11:6). live and move in the region of materialism, and We feel that our bodies are real when we have when we are weighted down with its trouble and and the world is a mere bubble. Neither will last but they appear sadly solid to us. What we need that which is seen, and even more so. We need a Him truly near us, or we will fail. The Lord The promise is part of this educational process. promise, then we are brought face-to-face with fulfill this promise?&quot; and our thoughts are thus how necessary He is to the whole system of our so that in him we live and move and have our being because God is behind it, for the mere words of from the lips of God who cannot lie, and except fail. The promise is the forecast of the divine fact, it is the token of God's own nearness to us. word, and that is one of His reasons for dealing the Lord would drop our mercies at our door we would not care to know where they came from. He makes His sun to rise every morning, we might and we might forget to depend upon Him because we would lack that grand test of the being and read the promise, accept it by faith, plead it That regularity of divine bounty which often the means of weakening it. He whose or a monthly rent is tempted to forget that God but through the hardness of our hearts, such from the consistency of a gracious providence. who were born in the wilderness and had gathered wonder at it or to see the hand of the Lord in Many people have lived from hand to mouth and every morsel of bread. In time, by God's goodness, regular income which they have received without natural result of their own hard work, and they no live without the conscious presence of the Lord is God! Sustained, but without the hand of God! and thus to be driven by our circumstances coming under the curse of forgetting God, the into connection with His own promises, and to will not allow His mercies to become veils but He makes them windows through which He looks and we watch to see His hand in the performance; atheism which lurks within the heart of man. under the system of promise in order that we may a promise? How could faith grow without grasping we are made to remember that God has said, Call thee (Psalm 50:15). Faith believes this word, it is strengthened and made to glorify the Lord. fulfilled right at that moment, but it has to serves to test its sincerity and force. This test with comfort. After a while the answer is given faith is crowned with victory, and glory is given patience of hope and has made every mercy to wear for faith. They help us to exercise our young can break through a troop or leap over a wall (2 we laugh at impossibility and call out, &quot;It if there were not an infallible promise Those promises which as yet are unfulfilled are life. We are encouraged to aspire to higher things prospect of good things to come strengthens us to little children who are learning to walk and apple being held out to them. We are persuaded sight of a promise. Thus, we are drawn to go a apt to cling to a chair and venture upon its feet, but at last he becomes daring enough for a This little venture leads to another and another, a great part in the training of the child, and We have received promise after promise until, I clinging to the things which rest upon it, and The promise is a needful implement in the graces and actions. I have often said, &quot;My Lord, name for it, but there is still one promise more go forward until I attain its fulfillment! The Your promise, and I expect to find in it the same now. Yes, I look for greater things than these.&quot; is part of the management of our because it stirs up prayer. What is prayer but the raw material of prayer. Prayer irrigates the in the reservoirs of promise. The promise is the &quot;Do as You have said. O Lord, here is Thus, the promise is the bow by which we shoot I like to find a promise which exactly fits &quot;Lord, this is Your Word; I ask You to prove I believe that this is Your own writing, I believe in plenary inspiration,4 and I humbly every sentence that He has put on record. I that He has used, and I expect Him to do as He has to be driven to prayer by necessity, but it is a which the promise inspires. Would we pray at and then encourage us with gracious promises design of providence, and then we test the and then we are fed on the word that proceeds By the system which the Lord follows with with Him, and we cannot forget our heavenly blessing God for promises fulfilled and pleading visits to the divine dwelling place, because we gracious. Is not this a system of things for which Lord that not only does He pour upon us showers value of His benefits by making them the subjects Chapter 11 Whereby are given unto us exceeding great We have thought upon the promises as our treasure. and calculate their value. Since the promises are wealth. It is possible that we may not fully know in poverty simply because we are ignorant of our form a proper valuation of the riches of grace and The apostle Peter speaks of the promises indeed exceed all things with which they can has done. Kings have promised even up to half of to give His own Son, and even His own self, a line somewhere, but the Lord sets no bounds The promises of God not only exceed all precedent, Himself for an example, no one has been able to The promises of God are as much above all other They also exceed all expectation. He does for think (Ephesians 3:20). Nobody could have imagined has made. They surpass all that we could dream. and the loftiest ideas are outdone. The Bible must man. The promises contained in it are greater most hopeful person could have looked for. God cheering words. He overwhelms us with blessings whence is this to me? (Luke 1:43). there is a chasm of depth in them as to meaning, and an ocean of breadth in them as to duration. I cannot attain to it.&quot; As a whole, the promises like God Himself, they fill all things. Unbounded whether we wake or sleep, whether we go out or cradle to the tomb. A sort of omnipresence us in all places and at all times. They are our they are still with us. Scripture: How precious the sum of them! (Psalm 139:17). They exceed all adore their Giver, but we can never measure them. men of God who have known the Lord for fifty whole of the marrow from His promise. Still (1 Samuel 20:22). Things better and deeper yet dives deepest by experience into the depths there is yet a deeper depth of grace and love broader than sin, deeper than the grave, and with the golden Book of promise is still a of Israel find that this Book surpasses knowledge. exceed all expression. If all the tongues of not be able to tell you how great the promises but all languages. They surpass the glowing Even angels before the throne still desire to look yet reach the mystery - the length and breadth description. The promises in Him exhaust It is vain for me to attempt the impossible. Peter says they are, and he knew very well. They love, they come to great sinners, they work for us They are as great as greatness itself. They bring God's first promise was that in which He committed Thanks be unto God for his indescribable gift (2 easily over the tongue. For God to give His only of love; indeed, &quot;great&quot; seems too little a word had given His Son, freely delivering Him up for Spirit, the Comforter, to abide with us forever. The Holy Spirit came down at Pentecost in not that marvelous descent an exceedingly Holy Spirit works in us all those graces which to God for this visitation of boundless grace! that He will come again a second time without Can all the saints together fully measure the This means infinite joy for saints. What else has we will live also (John 14:19). We will possess an enjoy a resurrection of our bodies. We will reign at His right hand. Promises fulfilled and promises eternity - they are indeed so great that it is How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, What more can He say than to you He hath said - - From the hymn &quot;How Firm a You whose minds are trained to think of the faithful promises! I find a promise declare the greatness of this blessing! There Children of God, you begin to know what manner proclaim your joy! There is the promise of help through trials, you know how the Lord sustains and grace! There is the promise that as thy days, so are working hard for Christ or bearing His cross that promise of sure support. What a wonderful those that walk uprightly (Psalm 84:11)! What a good to them that love God, to them who are the Who can estimate the breadth of such a gracious measure from your pocket; it will not do you of a fixed star as your base, all calculations ever measured the acres of the wealthy are that his estate reaches from sea to sea, but no the promise of our faithful God. The theme is of expression, and therefore I desist. speaks of exceeding great and precious promises. but in this instance, they are closely united. it is sure to be worthy of Him. He speaks words to speak of the preciousness of the promises of those who have tried and proved them. the poor and needy! Those who realize their promise which meets their case. How precious also fulfillment of them! We can go back in memory and the Lord helped us according to His Word. Even we were kept from sinking in the deep mire by for our rescue. His promise kept us from dying of In the expectation of future trial, our confidence to us even before it is actually fulfilled. find in it to believe. So precious is the Word of we have rather than throw away a single sentence we may need next. That which we have hardly to be essential to our life. Thank God that we are the breastplate of Holy Scripture. For all the by us for the glory of God (2 Corinthians 1:20). gazing into eternity months at a time, sorely depressing circumstances lose their power for evil of God. How sweet to be aware that I have my head of the Most High! Not on earthly futility, but be found elsewhere comparable to this perfect precious promises. That which can support dying pass into eternity with as much delight as if lasts forever, and joyfully lasts forever, is most and has all things in it, that is precious If this is the greatness and preciousness of the Will the child of God believe me? Perhaps, but if Certainly, it ought to be the easiest thing in High to believe in Him who has given them power sisters, let us not stagger at the promise Furthermore, let us know the promises. Should we know them better than anything else? The promises have not read the latest new book and have not should know very well what the Lord God has said, We ought to be so familiar with the Bible as to which most exactly meets our case. We ought to should be as much written upon our hearts as upon child of God should be unaware of the existence is pitiful for any one of us to be like the poor knew nothing, and so he continued sweeping the of having an anchor at home when your ship is you cannot remember so as to plead it in prayer? with those words of the Lord which are more Let us also make use of the promises. A little charities, and he said to me, &quot;Be sure that you assured that this was done. I do not keep checks and the cash is received and used. God are distinctly intended to be taken to Him and Prayer takes the promise to the Bank of Faith you pray. Make real business of it. Let it never but do not get what they are supposed to ask truthful, businesslike way. If you were to go into and then come out again without your cash, what I pass my check across the counter, take my money, praying. Ask for what you need according to Believe that you have the blessing, and go out from your knees singing because the promise is It is not the length of your prayer, but the the strength of prayer lies in your faith in the Lastly, talk about the promises. Tell the King's lamps under bushels. Promises are proclamations. marketplace. Oh, that our conversations were more After dinner, we often sit around for half an hour our neighbors. How often this is our Sunday's &quot;Now, friend, quote a promise,&quot; and if the other let each one speak according to his own personal those promises, and let everyone present tell By such holy conversations we would warm our and the Sabbath would thus be rightly spent. of their adventures, and farmers talk about their the Lord's goodness and talk of His faithfulness? Peter's statement that our God has given unto Chapter 12 And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom How the Lord brought about wisdom in Solomon give him wisdom, and He kept His the more remarkable will the fact appear. Solomon for wisdom. As the darling child of a somewhat As a young man who came to the throne before he he was very likely to have made great blunders which in the end overpowered him, he seemed than a philosopher. As a person possessing great he had little of that difficult experience Who were his teachers? Who taught him to be wise? sound morality and religion, but she could never which raised him above all other men and set him others, and therefore could not have borrowed and his fame brought pilgrims from the ends of the since he surpassed them all. How did this so as to make his name throughout This creation of such a great mind is a very wisdom? You can impart knowledge to him, but leader can give another man wisdom. They have to yet God gave Solomon largeness of heart as for God can do all things. By means known only capacity for observation, reasoning, and prudent We have often admired the wisdom of Solomon. I by whom Solomon's marvelous genius was produced. Solomon was because He had promised to do other Bible verses would serve my purpose bring out of it is this: that whatever God it to him. Whether it is wisdom to Solomon or He will not allow it to go unfulfilled. The God instance regarding Solomon, where the matter was with such disadvantageous circumstances, however difficult and mysterious the fulfilling of His word to the letter, and He will usually In this instance, while He gave Solomon wisdom, things which did not appear in the promise. and his righteousness, and all these things who makes promises about infinite blessings will account and were given as a matter of course. similar kind, we learn first that the foundational The pages of history sparkle with instances of the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's of the woman has appeared, and has gotten for our redemption! In the fulfillment of that one God's promises will be kept. When God promised he found it so. Not one of those innumerable break into his place of safety. When God said to a land which would be the possession of those believed God, and in due time he rejoiced to When the Lord promised Jacob that He would be with the deliverance for which he wrestled at the brook that the descendants of Israel would possess seemed as if it would never be accomplished. The and Pharaoh held them with an iron grip and would people, brought them out with a high hand in which He promised to rescue them. He divided the wilderness, for He had assured them that He and He drove out the Canaanites before His inheritance, just as He had promised. is so voluminous that time would fail us to always in due time been justified by God's His promise. Whenever they have taken hold upon has responded to the plea and proved that it was it has been God's unvarying rule to keep &quot;This is big talk,&quot; someone says. All right, God's way to keep His promise to each individual. not forget His word. Tens of thousands of us can been let down. I was once a brokenhearted sinner, wrath, guilty and self-condemned, and I felt that I could not rightly say one word against the If we confess our sins, he is faithful and I went to Him. Tremblingly, I was determined to unto the Lord, and He forgave the iniquity of my restful peace which came to my heart in the as if I had begun a new life - and indeed, I had. a man speak upon that promise, Look unto me, (Isaiah 45:22). I could not understand how a too simple an act to bring about so great a I looked - I looked to Jesus. could do. I looked unto Him who is set forth and in an instant, I knew that I was reconciled then I could not suffer too. I saw that if He iniquity must be blotted out if Jesus took With that thought there came into my spirit a my Lord. The promise was true, and I found it to but I have never lost the sense of that nor have I lost that peace which so sweetly dawned vain upon a promise of God. I have been placed in have felt sharp pain, and have been weighed down been true to every line of His Word, and when everything without a failure. I am constrained to hand and seal, without hesitation or reserve. same. We began our new lives of joy and and we continue to live in the same manner. A long memories, awakening our gratitude and confirming our God year after year in a great many ways, to Him with promises of the common things of life and home, and the Lord has dealt graciously with slander and doubt and temptation, and He has never of us. Even the hairs of our head have been the promise could be kept, God fulfilled it with by the falseness of man, but we have rejoiced God. It brings tears to our eyes to think of has worked to carry out His gracious promises. Which Jesus ratified with blood: And still in Him let Israel trust. Let me freely speak to all who trust in heavenly Father been true to you? Is not this your but He never fails? Well said the apostle Paul, he cannot deny himself (2 Timothy 2:13). We may and we will find that the Lord's promise is of His giving is large and generous. and the Lord fills it to overflowing. As the Lord so He will do in every instance as long as the yourself to be an inheritor of it. May the Holy Chapter 13 Blessed be the LORD that has given rest unto his not one word has failed of all his good his slave. (1 Kings 8:56) to us according to His promise. mere opinion. We declare it and defy all the world Upon this point I am a personal witness. My has been wide, but I have never yet met with promise to fail him. I have seen many living men word of the Lord, and I have also seen many dying but I have never met with a believer who has earthly afflictions, nor with one who on his All my observation points the other way and faithful to all who rely upon Him. I am prepared upon to do so. I would not utter a falsehood under upon this important subject as an honest witness man in the pangs of death lament that he trusted heard that such a thing has happened anywhere the haters of the gospel would have advertised the evil news. Every preacher would have been pamphlets at the door of every church and chapel, saintly life and who had relied on the Redeemer's had been deceived and that the doctrine of the to discover such an instance. Let them find it fiend himself, if he can, bear witness to the But it has not been said that Yahweh has deceived God is true to every word that He has ever spoken. of such a thing is blasphemous. Why should He be Him to break His word? It would be contrary be just and true? He cannot, therefore, violate Furthermore, the omnipotent God never promises according to our word, but we find ourselves and our promise falls to the ground because we are almighty God, for His ability is without limit. Our promise may have been made in error, and wrong to do as we have said; but God is never be withdrawn because of a mistake. Infinite each word of the Lord is registered by unerring Neither can the promise fail because of a frail things that we are! But the Lord turning (James 1:17). Therefore, His word abides His promises stand fast like the great mountains. 23:19). Our strong comfort rests upon Nor can the word of the Lord fall to the ground tongues outrun our hands; for although we are because other things come in and distract our but it is never so with the Faithful Promiser. His and He means it as much now as He did always giving the promise, since there is no are new promises to faith, for every word still for men (Deuteronomy 8:3; Matthew 4:4). deserves all faith, both direct and indirect. We God too much. It is the surest thing that has is to believe what no one can rightly question. The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but The laws of nature may be suspended: fire may for this would involve no unfaithfulness in dishonoring change in the character and nature of that God is true, and never allow the slightest The immutable word of promise is, and giving. Consider a little while, as that against this, no other rule can stand. into conflict with the standard of God's promise. it, but it cannot prevail. &quot;Oh,&quot; someone says, for there is no good thing in me!&quot; You speak God is to act toward you upon the principle of that principle will not operate, for the Lord of His promise. The promise was not founded upon be just as freely kept. If you inquire how God let me remind you of Jesus who came to save you Jesus are set to your account, and your awful The law of merit would sentence you to destruction not under law but under grace, and under grace mercy as revealed in His promise. Choose not you. Be willing to accept salvation as a free sovereign right of God, who says, I will have Romans 9:15). Be humbly trustful in the grace the promise will be richly fulfilled to you. the measure of our moral ability. &quot;Oh,&quot; says the myself better or become more religious or exercise believe. I cannot repent. I cannot do anything not promised to bless you according to the measure riches of His grace as declared in His Word. spiritual strength, you would get nothing, for promise is kept according to the infiniteness of You do not need to stagger at the promise has promised is able also to accomplish it. Do not love is restricted by your ability. The volume of of the desert through which it flows; there is no an eye, one can see that there is no calculating weakness. The operations of almighty grace strength. God's power will keep God's promise. your strength cannot fulfill the promise. He who neither your duty nor mine to keep God's promises. one, attach your heavy wagon of incapacity to the along the lines of duty and blessing! Though have more weakness than strength, this will not The power of the promise lies in Him who made the to God. If you are weak, rest in the arms of the then be buried in the grave where the bones as soon as you touch them (see 2 Kings 13:21). but everything hinges upon what the Lord can do. without attempting to keep God's promises. I would trustworthiness because a beggar who lives on should I doubt the Lord because I have ability is quite another question from the mix the two things. Let us not dishonor our simply because our arm has grown weak or weary. our feelings. We often hear the excuse that &quot;I that such sin as mine can be forgiven. I do not ever be softened and renewed.&quot; This is foolish such matters? Do you feel that the dead in their the cold of winter will be followed by the heat do not feel them, but you believe them. To Does the fainting man feel that he will revive? death? Do dead bodies feel that they will have God gave Solomon wisdom as He had promised whatever your feelings may be. If you you will see how often Moses uses the expression as he has promised (Deuteronomy 1:11). He cannot holy man viewed the dealings of the Lord with has promised. In our case also, the standard of Our experience of divine grace will not be While writing these things for the comfort of personally, my feelings often change, but I have either one way or the other. Above all, I of the promise by the condition of my mind. Today, Miriam's timbrel, but perhaps when I wake tomorrow with Jeremiah's lamentations. Has my salvation then it must have had a very unsure foundation. more unsubstantial than bubbles. Are these States of mind often depend upon the condition the Lord by these? Certainly not. The state of can there be much dependence upon things so love upon our emotions. That would be like according to facts, not according to fancies. and those truths are not affected by our feelings as a test by which to determine the sort of mingled insanity and wickedness. If the whether you feel triumphant or despondent. the terms of probabilities. It seems should be blessed of the Lord who made you are favored as surely as the blessed generations shall call her blessed (Luke 1:48). for there shall be a performance of those (Luke 1:45). O LORD of the hosts, happy is It may seem improbable that an old sinner, life by believing in Jesus, and yet it will living in sin would hear that word, He that would immediately lay hold upon it, and yet it is true, and I have seen it so. even impossible with us, are everyday things to go through the needle's eye. He calls the you laugh at the very idea of your being saved? but the joyous expectancy of Abraham. Believe inwardly and outwardly, not from disbelief, but do not cease to wonder, but we begin to be at home and believing, you will live in a new world which happy thing to have such faith in God as to expect most unlikely. Scripture: With God all things are that He would save every soul that believes in and so does the law of divine faithfulness. will keep His covenant. Extreme cases, are included within the circle of the Lord's or even doubt. God's opportunity has come when the more certain it is to be helped by the Lord. believing in Him and leaving all in His hands! their God? Scripture: O thou of little faith, that we would settle it in our minds that we For God is true, and every man a liar Is the LORD's hand waxed short? Thou shalt see or not. (Numbers 11:23). Let not the Lord speak be sure that the solemn declarations of the Lord asking, &quot;What is truth?&quot; Know infallibly that Here is a promise with which you can call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver Chapter 14 I AM the God of Abraham, thy father, and the to thee will I give it. (Genesis 28:13) laying hold of the promises of God as being it would be presumptuous to grasp things we may consider that if we have faith to grasp the key that will fit the lock of His door There can never be presumption in humbly believing question His Word. We are not likely to err in in lack of faith and not in too much of it. It dreadfully common to believe Him too little. you (Matthew 9:29) is a benediction from which thou canst believe this, all things are possible they could not enter in because of their unbelief entered in by faith was admonished for Jacob, according to the text with took possession of the promised land by stretching surer way of taking possession of a promise and then enjoying a good rest. The land upon How often have I found the promise true to my own acted upon it! I have stretched myself upon it as the Lord; then, a sweet rest covered my spirit. promise which our Lord made to those who seek ye receive it, and it shall come upon you (Mark it is according to the philosophy of faith. Say, immediately it is yours. It is by faith that we The promises of God are not enclosures to be the but they are an open common for all the dwellers persons who would, if they could, own the stars moon. The same greed might put limitations around might as well try to hedge in the songbirds and own sole inheritance as propose to keep God's of the saints can, even if they wished to do so, and key. The promise is not only unto you and to even as many as the Lord our God shall call (Acts common rights and possess by faith what the Words spoken to Jacob belong equally to he dominated the angel and prevailed; he wept Bethel, and there he spoke with us (Hosea 12:4). the patriarch. The wonders which God displayed for we read, there did we rejoice in him (Psalm the joy of Israel's victory is ours. The apostle were spoken to any and every child of God: he has (Hebrews 13:5). No word of the Lord ends with the in blessing the individual to whom it was first who have faith enough to embrace them and plead who trusts Him, He will be to all in a similar way The Bible has its eye upon each one of us as a speaker in 1817 at the annual Bampton lectures ourselves, and such as we, are the very persons in every variety of persuasive form, it appeal. The point worthy of observation is, the compass which we have represented Scripture to like that of a portrait, uniformly Eye of God's word! where'er we turn, Can all the depths of sin discern, &quot;What word is this? Whence know'st thou me?&quot; To hear thee that deep mystery, - From &quot;St. Bartholomew,&quot; by John Keble one of a thousand generations of believers is one proofs of its divine inspiration. We do not treat present - new, fresh, and adapted for the hour. in the ancient words upon which our fathers fed them still; or if we are not, we ought to be, The wells of Abraham served for Isaac and Jacob our buckets, and with joy draw water out of the when our fathers trusted in the Lord, and He shall be naive or too trusting. The promises of faith is itself a warrant for trusting. If you hundreds of times, the words of promise still often, we have stooped down to the springhead in is just as full and free, and we may drink today to drink for the first time. People do not it would be unreasonable to expect it of are a fountain! All my fresh springs are in You. in a certain place and took of the stones same. Here is the whole Bible for a couch, and lay down your burdens, and yourself also, and take are from this point forward yours: the land upon Chapter 15 I believe God, that it shall be Paul had received a special promise, and he openly would fulfill every detail of that promise. In is true. Each one of us is obligated to do suitable to our case. This is what I mean by A friend might give me a check for the orphanage the sum of $10.&quot; His name is good and his bank is sign my own name on the back of his check. It and the banker pays me; but this There are many nobler names than mine, but none wrote the President's name, it would not help signature on the back of the document, it would be each person must personally accept, adopt, and faith, or he will derive no benefit from it. by John Milton in honor of the bank, or exceed benefactor of the orphans, it would avail nothing. count for nothing. What is absolutely required named as the receiver. However fine might be the the back of the check, that also would be of no and nothing will be accepted instead of it. We declare that we know it to be true, or it ceremonial performances, or exuberant feelings Scripture: He that comes to God must believe that diligently seek him (Hebrews 11:6). Some The promise may be said to be like this: sinner who will believe on Me the blessing of on the back of the check, but nothing else he goes to the throne of grace with it, and he to him. He will have that mercy; he cannot fail Son has eternal life (John 3:36); and so it is. him would escape, because God had promised enough of a guarantee for the fact, and storm. He gave his companions wise and sensible he managed matters as a man would do who was sure God as He should be treated - with unquestioning it would grieve him if he saw that he was regarded honor and cannot tolerate that men should treat the Lord above any other sin. It touches the Far be it from us to perpetrate so infamous believe Him fully and unconditionally, placing Paul openly proclaimed his confidence in the At this time, bold, outspoken testimonies to the be of great value. The air is full of doubt; believe. Such a man as George M ller, who believed is a rare person. Scripture: When the Son of man 18:8). Therefore, let us speak out. Unbelief but let us meet the giant with the sling and witness. God keeps His promise, and we know Yes - we would do it with our blood if it were and of this we are undaunted witnesses, Chapter 16 Godliness is profitable unto all things, and of that which is to come. (1 Timothy 4:8) from treating religion as if it has a place in or more like a work of religious fiction than a in God, just for things spiritual but they totally forget that true godliness as well as of that which is to come. To them the small matters of which daily life is made up. that this should make them question the reality the little troubles of life, will it support them them regarding food and clothing, what can it In the life of Abraham, we perceive that of his earthly pilgrimage. It was connected to the separation of a nephew from his camp, to birth of the long-promised son. No part of the faith in God. Toward the close of his life it things (Genesis 24:1), which included material the Lord promised him bread to eat, clothing father's house in peace. All these things Certainly, these first believers did not run or regard it as a flippant, mystical matter to any line of division between secular and sacred like Crusaders, ate and drank like saints, lived their religion, and their religion was their life. of greater importance, but about everything. That when he was sent on an errand, prayed, O LORD, by which I go (Genesis 24:42). This was genuine allow the substance of the promise and the life imaginative notions. If trust in God is good the line of the promise, and it is certain that Observe and use practically Ye shall serve the LORD your God, and and I will take all sickness away Wait in the LORD and do good; live in the Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of shall cover thee with his feathers, and his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou nor for the arrow that flies by day, nor nor for the destruction that wastes at side and ten thousands at thy right hand, but He shall deliver thee in six tribulations, and in He that walks in righteousness, he that speaks he that shakes his hands from receiving bribes; he who shuts his eyes to not see evil; he shall shall be his place of refuge: bread shall be given For the LORD God is a sun and shield unto he will not withhold good from those No weapon that is formed against thee shall thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the justice from me, said the LORD. (Isaiah 54:17) daily cares, or He would not have said, Therefore what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet life more than food, and the body than raiment? neither do they reap nor gather into barns, not much better than they? (Matthew 6:25-26). earthly things could He have meant when He used eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye high the world seek after, and your Father knows that Paul meant the same when he wrote, Be anxious supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests which passes all understanding, through Christ Jesus (Philippians 4:6-7). will not leave us without provision for the His heavenly offer. God makes the road, Our earthly necessities are as real as our Lord will supply them. He will send us prayer, and faith, and so make them a means Canaan by the experience of the wilderness. for our great God is to forget that He observes our head. Besides, everything is so little to Him He cares for nothing. Who is to divide matters may be a small circumstance. Blessed is the for certainly nothing is too small to A man of God once lost a key. He spoke about that as a strange circumstance, Some of us pray about everything, and we tremble by the Word of God and prayer. It is not including but omitting them. We are assured that when feet from stones in the way, He placed all the we are glad to commit all things to His keeping. age that in Christ we have continual peace power in prayer to obtain from the Lord all It has been my experience in life to test the being driven to prayer by the care of orphans brought suitable supplies and cleared away serious provide a meal, change a hard heart, obtain a site and restrain an epidemic. Like money faith in the hand of a person of God answers in heaven and earth and under the earth answer to by a con man nor simulated by a hypocrite, but with a firm grip, it is a great wonder-worker. to lean upon Him in all the concerns of this life! you such affirming evidence as to the truth of our Childlike faith in God provides sincere hearts call sanctified common sense. The simple-minded about him which comes from above and effectually a malicious enemy like the straightforward He who believes in His God shall not be afraid of LORD (Psalm 112:7). In a thousand ways this faith see if it does not yield for you an immeasurable trouble, for the promise is, These things I have In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be 16:33). It will cause you to glory in tribulations and patience, experience; and experience, hope; love of God is poured out in our hearts by the My faith not only flies to heaven, To me are all things daily given, The promise speaks of worlds above, It feeds and clothes me now with love, I trust the Lord, and he replies, He honors faith with prompt supplies; Chapter 17 Thou hast spoken this goodness King David knew what the Lord had promised to his prayer as this good thing (Revised Standard and specific in our supplications than we usually practically pray for nothing. It is good to to the blind man, What wilt thou that I should be aware of his own needs and to be filled with valuable ingredients in the composition of prayer. to find that the Lord has promised us this God with the utmost confidence and look for the diligently search the Scriptures, looking much our own, and attempting to find that particular ourselves in our present circumstances. The more case, the greater the comfort which will result. of plenary, or verbal, inspiration - that every In your own circumstance, you might have to dwell as Paul did when quoting the promise made and his seed were the promises made. He did not And to thy seed, which is Christ (Galatians 3:16). pages of the Bible there is a promise fitting the His having given us a revelation which meets the Not a single trial is overlooked, however unusual for every living thing upon the face of the child of God in the Word of God. If we do we do not look for it, or having found it, A simple comparison may be useful here. and after trying all the keys you can send for a locksmith. The tradesman comes with To you they appear to be one big collection and then he tries first one key and then another. still out of your reach. Now he has found a likely is evidently on the right track now. At last, the This is a correct representation of the difficulty so as to deal with it properly but have not the liberty in prayer which you You try one and another of the inspired words, but to suspect that they are not strictly applicable old Book for use on another day, for they are not and in due season a promise presents itself which as exactly as a well-made key fits the area of the found the identical word of the living God, saying, &quot;O my Lord, You have promised be pleased to grant it!&quot; The matter is ended. Frequently, the Holy Spirit brings words of the which we might otherwise have forgotten. He also and so reveals a fullness in them which we the texts have seemed puzzling, and for a while, could hardly see their meaning. For years, one rest in that which is good; and his seed shall was seldom out of his mind; indeed, it seemed to special relation of the promise to his experience a child of God, who mourned his years of at once into joy and peace by that seldom-quoted caterpillar has eaten (Joel 2:25). The bitter led to the utterance of comforting promises which and brokenhearted Christians when afflicted with Before this age will end, we are confident illustrated by the life of one or another of the promise is still waiting until he shall come for there is one rusty key on the bunch but it will find it before the history of the The word of the Lord which would remove our we may not be aware of it. With extraordinary in his book The Pilgrim's Progress, represents his own possession the key called Promise, which often lie in dismal confinement while the means we would but open our eyes, we would, like Hagar, we thought of dying of thirst (see Genesis 21:19). of the Lord awaiting you! As the manna fell early gather it as soon as they left their beds (Exodus coming. The oxen and the young animals of grace immediate comfort (Matthew 22:4). The mountain prepared for your deliverance (2 Kings 6:15-17). eyes were opened, you would see them too. Like the for you to sit where you are and die (2 Kings nearby, exceeding abundantly above all that you and enter into rest (Hebrews 4:3). and the wandering, there are words of good cheer discouraged, the despairing, and the dying, there ailment. The widow and the fatherless have shipwrecked mariners, the elderly, and those who where a promise does not follow him. An atmosphere surrounds the globe. I might almost call it my face and my insides and laid thine hand upon to comprehend; it is high, I cannot understand shall I flee from thy presence? (Psalm 139:5-7). of promise; rather, in its presence the night and by faith and patience wait in the land home. Then we will, like the rest of the heirs of Certain covenant agreements made with the Lord ones are completely without condition as far as words of the Lord contain stipulations which must specific blessing. Part of your diligent search God will keep His promise to you, but be sure any conditions involved. Only when we fulfill we expect that promise to be fulfilled to us. thou shalt be saved (Acts 16:31). If you believe will be saved; but you must believe. In the same holiness, reading the Word, abiding in Christ, soul to the thing commanded, that the blessing may not realized because known duties are neglected. (Genesis 4:7). Even an unknown duty may whip strokes may greatly impair our happiness. Let and then let us obey it without a trace of willfulness, but about the path of divine wisdom and all her paths are peace (Proverbs 3:17). because it has a condition attached to it. As a The condition itself is another blessing, which which you desire, that you may gain two mercies the condition is grievous only to those who are hedge, keeping them from the comfort to which but pleasant, and it is therefore no hindrance to which show a black cloud and darkness to the and give light by night to them (Exodus 14:20). it upon us we find rest unto our souls (Matthew the wording of the promise. Carry out all its If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus, all for this very day and for the particular search the Scriptures and find your portion for given in His Book, He has said, Seek ye out that if one of these is lacking, none is missing and his same Spirit has gathered them (Isaiah Whatever else may prove a failure, the promise of beyond all risk. Scripture: It is better to princes (Psalm 118:9). Let us sing at every Tell of His wondrous faithfulness Sing the sweet promise of His grace, He that can dash whole worlds to death, He speaks, and that almighty breath His very word of grace is strong The voice that rolls the stars along - From the hymn &quot;Begin, My Tongue, Chapter 18 The time of the promise drew nigh. (Acts 7:17) are not called swift, but certain, or sure: the nothing about being in a hurry in the way the Lord grace are slow in coming. It is by no means an crying, O LORD, how long? (Habakkuk 1:2; Psalm LORD shall gather thee (Isaiah 58:8). The rear sometimes make us wait, but we will see in the end people's salvation. Let us never doubt Him. Though surely come. Scripture: For the vision is yet for and not lie; though it tarry, wait for it because A ship once sailed from the port of London, which it would prove both safe and speedy. Truly, It is both swift and sure. David may not have said often said as much and even more in others. David he flew upon the wings of the wind (Psalm 18:10). people. He has a set time to favor Zion, and when The date for its fulfillment is an important part of it. It would be unjust to delay the payment of of the same nature. The Lord is prompt to the The Lord had threatened to destroy the world moment until Noah had entered the ark; and then deep broken up, and the windows of the heavens that Israel should come out of Egypt, and of the four hundred and thirty years, that all the hosts of the LORD went out from the the Lord numbers the years of His promise and 24-27). As for the greatest promise of all - was not behind in delivering that great gift, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman the Lord our God keeps His word to the moment. Lord to come quickly to our rescue, even as David O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O Lord even describes Himself as hurrying to carry saying, I the LORD will hasten it in its time however, as if we had the slightest fear that needed us to help Him hurry His response. No. as some count lateness (2 Peter 3:9). Our God is very swiftly (Psalm 147:15). Sometimes His speed as, for example, when He fulfills that ancient that before they call, I will answer; and while Yet there are delays in the answers to our that which he planted yesterday, neither do that which we seek from Him. The door of grace Why is this? It is because the mercy will be all is a time for every purpose under heaven, and 3). Fruit ripens in its season, and the more mercies would be only half mercies; therefore, their perfection. Even heaven itself will be all is prepared for us and we are prepared for it. strikes upon the bell when the best moment has as well as by His prompt replies. We are not yet come. That would be to act like spoiled or else they think they will never have it. to His waiting people. Scripture: Therefore will you (Isaiah 30:18). His compassions will not to be suspended and our distress has increased. us by delaying His answers of peace. It is with on earth: Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister he was sick, he abode two days still in the sometimes closes the hand of divine bounty sees that we will benefit from a period of trial. because our trial has not yet fulfilled its purpose or it cannot be brought to an out of the fire before its dross is consumed? the utmost purity! These furnace moments are golden hours. The time of the promise corresponds Moreover, we might not have displayed sufficient yet had her perfect work. The weaning process comforts which the Lord intends us forever to Isaac was weaned, and it may be that our heavenly proud heart! Put away your idols. Forsake and the promised peace will come to you. a duty which will become the turning point of our Job when he prayed for his friends (Job 42:10). relative or other friend before He will favor us face of our Joseph except our brother be with us house may lie neglected or some holy work may be it so? Scripture: Are the consolations of God in any secret thing concerning thee? (Job 15:11). to Him or a notable sacrifice for Him, and then have to complain that Thou hast bought me no let us accept His challenge: Bring ye that there may be meat in mine house, and if I will not open you the windows of heaven, God's promises are so timed as to secure His good enough for us when we can see no other reason more fully aware of our need and the great value too lightly may be too lightly prized. Perhaps thankful by an education of waiting. We might not waiting lead to thirsting and pleading, and If all things could be known to us as they are hearts for keeping us under His discipline and for the end as well as the beginning, we would praise unanswered petitions. Certainly, if we knew that continuing without the pleasures we desire we would cry aloud to be left in our poverty and by being denied what we seek, then we desire to the sum of all the rest is this one: Nevertheless Chapter 19 That Holy Spirit of the promise, which is redemption of the purchased possession, unto In a very true and real sense, the things property of believers. All things are yours truly say to each one of the sons who abides 15:31). The inheritance is already ours, say in principiis, that is to say, in the promise and in its first principles which are infused into the Father has already blessed us with all Christ (Ephesians 1:3). He has not only resolved also blessed us with the treasures of His love. an infinite estate in the ages to come, but He has portion, as the Scriptures say: In whom likewise The Holy Spirit is in many ways the means now. By him we are &quot;sealed&quot; (Ephesians 1:13). We and that we ourselves belong to the great Holy Spirit upon us in our regeneration, are the authentication of our being in grace other testimonies of our being saved, there that the Spirit of the living God rests upon us. upward breathings, and even groanings which cannot Holy Spirit is working upon us, and working Life breathed into us by the Holy Spirit is the The Spirit of promise does not prepare us for has worked in us to prepare us for something has prepared us. The faintest impress of the part and parcel with the people of God than can draw from its spirited notions. the inheritance, but He is also the assurance or itself, given as a guarantee that the remainder paid part of his wage in the middle of the week, from a pledge, for a pledge is returned when we not returned, for it is a part of that which is great portion of the inheritance of the saints, perfectness, of heaven, and of eternal glory. and workings are the first principles of we have the kingdom, which it is our Father's This will be made clear by a few moments' holiness, and it is clear that, as far He has implanted the beginnings of heaven. Heaven the world, and the flesh, we have foretastes of palms in the New Jerusalem. Heaven is an endless of the perfect rest than by that joy and peace Communion with God is a main ingredient in by the Spirit of God, we are enabled to delight our salvation (Psalm 37:4; Habakkuk 3:18). gracious designs and purposes, and likeness to Him in our perfected condition before the throne; us from day to day. To be pure in heart so as to be established in righteousness, to be strong cleansed from self so as to find our all in God - central benedictions of the Beatitudes (Matthew us by that Spirit of glory and power which even we have the things we seek after. In Him, the the dawn of the day of glory has smiled upon us. blessings as common talk would make us out That which eye has not seen nor ear heard is that which God has prepared for those that add the words that follow: But God has revealed What cruelty it is to cut the living child of us what neither eye nor ear has perceived. He has secrets hidden from ages and from generations. everlasting life which is promised to those who and the outgrowth of the life of grace. behold that celestial peace which is the of the fragrance of delight in the love of God in the steadfast security and sacred serenity rest of paradise. When our inward joys rise high the heavenly hallelujahs. If we want to know the brought to us by those emotions and anticipations gone like spies into the good land and brought It is not only that we will have an inheritance, Spirit, we are already in possession of the Numbers 13:27). Scripture: We who have believed come unto Mount Sion and unto the city of the innumerable company of angels (Hebrews 12:22). made partakers of a divine inheritance in the holy, and heavenly calling. Scripture: If things which are above, where the Christ sits Chapter 20 The Lord Jesus Christ and the Promises and in him Amen, by us for the Jesus, our Lord, stands forever connected to the truth, and the life (John 14:6). No man comes could not close this little book without a short attempt to obtain any comfort from a word that we except as you receive it through Jesus Christ. nothing upon which the soul of man may live. search the Scriptures, for in them they think they come unto Christ that they might have life (John but let us come to Jesus day by day, knowing all fullness dwell (Colossians 1:19). Only as we of the heirs of promise; and, as surely as we grace to abide in Him, that we may possess all the Jesus is the gate of the promises. Through commitments with guilty people. Until &quot;the the mediator between God and man (1 Timothy 2:5), cause the offense. God had no word for sinners among us (John 1:14). God could not communicate the Word. As God could not come to us apart from approach Him except through Jesus, the Mediator. we see in the Son of God a brother full of tender us until we behold the milder radiance of the humanity of His Son, and especially through Jesus is the sum of all the promises. When God all things necessary for our salvation. Every good the person, offices, and work of our Redeemer. All them up or make a long list of all the blessings the trouble and be happy to know that this is the As all the stars are in the sky and all the waves Christ. There is no real blessing outside of our the pearls. This jewelry box holds all the gems. not spare His own Son will deny nothing to His He would have done so before He had made the can never be a suspicion that the Lord will revoke fulfilled the greatest and most costly of them but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not Jesus is the confirmer of the promises. They are His coming into our nature, His standing as our of the covenant, have made all the articles of the only kind, but it is also just with God to keep on our behalf, full restitution to the divine God unites with His love in securing the As the rainbow is our assurance that the flood (Genesis 9:12-17), so Jesus is our assurance faithful kindness of the Lord. He has magnified for His soul's travail, and therefore all good would be an unhinging and dislocation of all no effect after our Lord has done all that was with the Lord Jesus Christ, the promises are as Jesus is the one who makes remembrance of the and His plea is the divine promise. He made For the good things that He has promised, the Lord us; and that this inquiry may be carried out under Lord Jesus Himself becomes the Intercessor for us. 62:1), but day and night He makes remembrance by which it was sealed and ratified. At the back prevailing High Priest of our faith. We may forget present the incense of His merit and the promises veil where He exercises omnipotent intercession. coming brought us the major part of the blessings and His second coming is to bring us the His ever-endearing person. Because He lives, He is accepted, we are accepted. Soon, at His triumph, we will triumph. In His glory, we will Omega of the promises of God. In Him we have found saints. If He is not risen, our faith is vain. a delusion; but, since He has risen from the dead, of the Father, we will also be glorified. All will depend upon your answer to this then the Lord has promised to bless you and to the amazing manner in which He will do this for to the person who delights in His Son, Jesus. works, feelings, prayers, and traditions? Then the curse of the law. Remember what was said and you can determine what your share will be. flee to the home of free grace, and become one May God grant this great favor unto you This has been According to Promise, Written by Charles H. Spurgeon. Copyright (c) 2017 by Aneko Press