So I have a confession to make, which is: Around this time I go to Yellowstone National Park on a summer trip with my family, and we have a cassette of this album. And yes, all of our family, including me, sings this song. oh yeah. Of course sassy. So, so wanna join me in around? Yeah. Do you get sassy when you sing this song? Which part do you sing? Well, you can start, but I'll get. I'll join you with me and I. Oh, so you. oh. Total crazy again. I'm a lady. Yeah, man. Shirt, short skirt. Yeah, I like, oh. And man. I feel like a wall, man. I'll bomb. But, Yes, you got the guitar part too I. Okay, so no, I want to ask you about that hook. Yeah. Guitar, So when that song is produced and, you know, we'll even forget the video, then the the trolling of Robert Palmer and Addicted to Love. But just the song with the words and your sound and the guitar hook. Did you think to yourself, this is just going to be enormous? I, I have to admit, I never know what's going to be enormous when I, when I if. You try it out, it's going to be great. You're the only person on earth who didn't know I was going to be great. I think it was. It's just, I mean, I try to get into the head of my personal fan self right? What do I want to listen to? What? What would I want? To dance around the house singing right. But when you're first writing the song, there's no beat, there's no music, there's no production. It's just about the story and the lyric. Right? And the hook lyric, man, I feel like a woman was very, very satisfying. As a statement. And so that I could, I could sense that that might connect as a satisfying statement. Exclamation for men and women. So I felt. That makes me feel better because I'm little embarrassed when I. But now that I've told America that I'm sitting around in Yellowstone going, man, I feel like. My whole audience sings it in its mix of men and women. So there's no, yeah, no worries there. You're welcome to sing it anytime. You're like, well, let's start at the top. And in 1995, you have your big first hit album, The Woman in May. And let's take a look at one of the videos. All right. It is such fun watching you. Watching you. You what? What do you think of that girl? What would you say to that girl? Well, when I whenever I see this video, I think I was so naive in a lot of ways. I really didn't understand camera angles yet. I didn't understand how to make a video. It was all very new to me. It was it was early on and, so I feel like I was in a girlish, way, still trying all of these things on, but at the same time, I was 30 already when I had my first hit of that album. So I had mental maturity, but I was still very, very new. well. One of the first - in the world. You know, one of the first things that you hear after that album is it's too sexy for country. Yes, it was too sexy for country. I took a lot of heat for that. It was what do they say? And that's. Oh, I'm a lap dancer. no, you can't show your midriff. you're going to offend everyone. You're going to offend the women because they're going to, they're going to be turned off by you're going to offend the men because you have this attitude toward men. but I just had to, ignore them you know, I just have to go with my own, my own vision. Well, let's just in that let's. Talk about your own vision, because the album in the first couple of years, it's sold more now, but in the first couple of years sells 10 million copies. And you said, that's great for country, but it's not great compared to Michael Jackson or the Rolling Stones. So what did you want to be if if 10 million albums and a huge hit wasn't enough? Well, you know, going through all the effort to to even get a record deal is huge. All of the work that I had done singing from bars, you know, from the age of eight years old, it had been already a very long road. So my intention was to go all the way on that road. I wasn't going to stop at just being a, for example, Canadian superstar or just being a North American superstar. I wanted to be a global superstar, and that meant that I was going to have to crossover, because country music is not a global, genre the way it is. You know, in America. So I knew that there was a still a very, very long way to go, even after selling, selling 10 million albums. I mean, it's kind of a hard thing. You send, you sell 10 million albums, you're a huge country star and you're saying, no, that's not enough. I mean, was that hard for you or did you just say, no, I'm not going to be bound by somebody's definition? Well, because I had so much more to give. So I was I'm like, I've got more to give. Who's stopping now? Let's just keep going. Let's keep rolling with this. Let's see how far it will go. I had intentions to hopefully be a global, success. whether I would have gotten there or not, I don't know, I did. Okay, grateful. I'm. I'm very, very grateful for that. But it was more about just, the intention. The intention was there. I had the energy to do it. I had much more music to write, more records to make, and a lot more ideas to share. So I just wasn't empty yet. Then there is my all time favorite Pink song. Oh, I can't wait to know. All right. You were singing. Let's sing, let's sing. Can't stop coming in hot. I should be locked up right on the spot and so on. Right now you can sing. Yes, a little, but not upside down. What's your favorite song to sing? Well, this is one of my favorites. I love this one. But the thing about that song, it's it's so raw and it's so real. I mean, you're talking to me. Oh, I love that. That makes me so happy. Yeah. I think we should all celebrate ourselves more. You've got this album, then you're going to go on tour this summer, starting in July. The summer carnival tour? Yes, in the United States. But you're also a huge draw, which I didn't realize. And in Britain and Australia. Can I see your pitch? I want to hear that you will. Like to be on the. Network. Which is why I'm be. Explained to us mortals. What's it like when you're that when you walk out on a stage and there are 50,000 screaming, adoring fans? What is that. Like? It's amazing. It's amazing. I but it's an authentic like. I feel like it's group therapy. We're having this amazing experience together. Music is an experience. Lyrics. You experience them in a sensory way. It's a memory. It's a song you might have shared with your parent or your child, or your best friend, or music fan. I mean, if you put on Don McLean, Starry Starry Night, I'm in my living room with my dad. I'm a certain age and I feel loved and safe. Songs do that. And so in a concert experience for us, for us 50,001, it's it's beautiful. How do you explain your appeal? How do you how do you. No, no, no, but I mean, how would you explain the fact that you have endured and in fact flourished as a rock star for more than 20 years? And I guess it depends on the angle that you come at it from. If if you look at what I did, as in business and decisions in my career, I have never sold myself short. And I when I realized that I was never going to be, selling perfume or the beautiful one or the the popular one, it was put your head down, beat the pavement, and get really good at your craft. I am very, very open, very vulnerable. Am I'm very honest in my lyrics and warts and all. And, I, I fight for the underdog. I feel like an underdog a lot of the times. I know that's ridiculous to say, probably for someone in my position, but, I don't know. We're just like little Rocky is walking around little scrappers. You have had a remarkable career. 5 billion streams of your music, 25 number one hits, ten in a row at one point. How do you explain it? It's about the song. Country music is about the song. Like if your song is saying something like, we're here. We are talking about why I wrote same here, why summers is what it is. And that's the key to me. If I had any advice for anybody wanted to do this, it's it's say something you believe or something that you really can't wait to perform and and cause emotion with. And when you do that, you know, the rest follows. I've said all along, as a songwriter or not, I wrote most of my hits, but there's some I didn't. Anybody with those exact songs is probably a bigger star than me. I feel like it's always about what you're saying, you know, in our format at least. Why do you think that somebody else would? Singing your songs would be a bigger star. They'd have more charisma. It'd be a it'd be a better, you know, they'd have the whole package. What do you think? Your charisma. Deficient. Definitely. My wife does too. I don't I don't believe that for a minute. I think that the record would show I'm right in your role. Okay, well, I hope you're right. Okay, so let's talk a little bit about process. Which comes first, the words or the music or does it depart? For me it's words. It's like I sometimes I'll have a great melody or something and and say, well what goes with that? But most of the time I have a hook. It's it's like, you know. I had this hook, you know. I'd like to see you out in the moonlight. I'd like, kiss you. Way back. In the sticks. I'd like to walk you through a field of wildflowers. I'd like to check you for ticks, you know. And that was a number one song. And I think I remember playing that for the head of my label when it was written, knowing they're either going to drop me or this is a hit. And he loved it. And next thing you know, it was a because a hit is right. Well, you know, I might sing that to my wife. I want to try to protect. And it's literally you're being the ultimate romantic by saying that to. And I'm surprised that has not been picked up by some bug spray or something like that. Yeah. What went exactly right, Right off Deep Woods, off our next tour sponsor. There you go. Your first number one hit was a song called, He Didn't Have to be. Yeah, and it was a tribute to fathers and stepfathers. Yeah. Let's listen. I love the fact that you're playing along with everybody else. We've very seldom got actors or politicians singing along with the videos. you say one of the great things about country music is that you write something that's personal for you or for your songwriter, whatever, and it strikes a chord with so many people. Yeah, that's a great example right there that was not written to be, hit song at all. It was written with one of my best friends who is, stepdad, and he had just gotten married with a five year old. And we sat down to write, and I and I said, is there something in this situation, you know, that we can put pen to paper and write your story? And we did that. And the next thing you know, the record label was sort of just demanding. I cut that and release it and, I was like, y'all are crazy. This is such a strange little niche science. It's a stepdad and a and a kid and I don't know. And they said, no, this is. And the next thing you know, it was really, really affecting people. And I learned a lesson. I learned, you know, be honest and tell your story. And I think you'll find a lot of people share it. So we just happened to be here with a piano and, take us a little bit inside your process when you're sitting at the keyboard. Yeah. How do you create? I don't know the answer to that question. I think it comes from a place of, of you're inspired by an idea. You're inspired by something. Something comes to you. And when you're inspired in that way, it's like, a clue. It's telling you, follow this clue, and it may lead you somewhere. Sometimes it doesn't, but, okay, I'm here. So that. Okay, that's telling me more and more what it wants to be. The key is to listen and just be the vessel for the idea to come through. And will you just doing that? I mean, I was just. No, no, that was spontaneous composition, if you want to call it that. I'm just making that up, man. And and honestly, it was that something or was that not something. That was the ideas usually come in a more, it's it's a lot more casual and, and spontaneous ideas hit you, you you're reading something or you walking down the street, you might be asleep and it comes to you in a dream and you wake up and you and you say, oh, man, I got to go and do it. Well, you actually hear a tune, a phrase in your head, and then replicate it on the on the piano. Yeah, most of the time is not music, though. It's, I'm inspired by the idea of what I saw in a film somehow manifesting into a tune. maybe it's something that I want to do in the world, and in that leads to a musical idea. You came out with your latest album this summer, and you played one of the songs from that album on the Today Show? the album is called World Music Radio, and the whole idea seems to be to to surpass tear down the barriers between countries and inside. Music. Music is is put into these categories, right? It's almost like little countries, you know, genres. And I find that with music that's not as productive as a little bit of a, of of something that marginalizes artists when you're thinking, oh, I have to place my music in this way, are created in this way in order for it to fit into the market. Well, for thousands of years before that, music was categorized in this way. So can you show us how you can break a barrier, a musical barrier, go from one genre to another? Yeah. Of course. I mean, as we were just messing around being that we had Julia, you know, Beethoven. But you know, the blues. Gospel. That is amazing. You know what I mean? Yeah, no, I I, I understand it intellectually, but now to see it, to hear it to feel it. Yeah, it takes both. You got to have the heart and the soul. You got to have the science in the soul. That's the thing that I love about music. You can intellectualize it, you can study it. You can go into the ivory towers and find all of the different nooks and crannies of it. But you know what? If it don't feel, if it don't hit right here. That all that doesn't matter. I'm curious about your process because I read somewhere that you said melody always comes first and lyrics come second. And I. I saw an interview with Paul McCartney recently, one of your songwriting colleagues, and he said he'll start with a chord, and then he'll just start noodling around with the chord to see where that goes. Can you do you can you sort of define what your process is or how you come up with a song? Because the melodies are great. Thank you. yeah. I always said I was a melody queen. I would start with melodies because that was like the catchiest thing in my brain. and I noticed in songwriting sessions I was the one bringing in the melodies and like, especially this album, I, I'm a mom. I've been through way more and I, I went in like, I want to talk about bad for me like this love is so toxic and I need to take a step for myself away. And I think it could help people. So, for this album, I would sit at my piano a lot before the songwriting session. I would do homework and I would have an idea, and luckily it worked every single time. But I was like, I'll do a chorus and then I'll let the songwriters come in and we'll craft. So. So I'm like, give me an example, give me a is it a musical phrase that you have in your head? Or give me an example of. Okay, so made you look, I was in the shower and I was like, I need my self-love confidence song. But I wanted to feel like, dun dun dun dun dun like that world. And I'll literally be dancing in the shower. And I was like, I got Hamaguchi, Gucci, Louis. Vuitton. And I was like, I wanted to dance like that. But what word would sound good with that? And is a fancy brand and I was like Louis Vuitton. And so I that's great. And I was like, but even I don't need all that stuff to be gorgeous. So I was like, even with nothing, but I made you look and I knew background girls, made you look and scream in your face. And it literally is just coming to you like that in the shower. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And you get a little waterlogged as this is going on. Yeah. I was dancing and it was great. And then I, I remember I was in the gym with my older brother and we were on the treadmill warming up, and I sang it to him and I was like, is this trash or is this great? He was like, that's fire, bro. And then the rest of the day he was like, I got Hamaguchi. Oh! And I was like, okay, there's something that's catchy. Gucci, Louis Vuitton. We don't. Leave. We don't. Yes. Is it true that it took you 45 minutes to write all about that bass? It was a quick right. Yeah. it's like chemistry. Have you ever created something with a stranger so fast? I guess that's not a relatable thing. songwriting sessions are like, you meet and it's a blind date. So Kevin was this man who had a wife and a kid, and I was a 19 year old kid just trying to write songs. So I was like, nice to meet you. Thanks for letting me come to your home and writing a tune with you. And we talked about where we're from and that I was a chubby kid growing up and and we he said, I have a title, all bass, no treble. And I was like, you know what the kids say? We say, I'm all about that. So I said, let's make it all about that bass, no treble. And I said, let's say bass is my booty and this is treble because I don't have nothing up here. And I was like, let's just be confident in our skin, which is so opposite of what I thought. But but I mean, the interesting thing is he was thinking about all about that bass in a musical sense. Probably, you. Know, treble and you're thinking about bass in terms of body shape and booty. Nice. Yeah. I thought I but my thickness, you know, in that moment we were like, how can we make this make sense? And I was like, bass, no treble. But like we've made it basically we like that thickness. We like that body that you hear when you. So you have you had the phrase all about that bass. Did you have a melody or did that just come to you in the course we. Talked about I think, how are you like, we like to do pop music and we liked old school. And he he played that, the tacky upright bass sound on a keyboard and was just like doom, doom, doom doom, doom. And he started making like record beats with it is very impressive. And I was like, by the way, I can rap. And he was like, what? And I was like, I can rap. So the first verse should be like, is pretty clear. I know size two. And we were just like giggling. We were like, this is so funny and no one will ever sing this and no. How you hear it. So all about that, that. there they, you know, no trouble. And I know pop music. You want repetition, you want something easy. And I learned so much from that song. Like after I wrote it, I watched babies like, dancing to it in diapers, on tables, like, all about their bass. And I was like, okay, it's simple, but it's clever. Like, grandparents love it and babies love it. Thanks so much for watching. Be sure to subscribe to CNN's YouTube channel so you never miss the best of my conversations, and you can catch the full interviews of Who's Talking streaming right now on Max.