The ocean is terrifying... ....but the maps that we have of our oceans are you might think that we know the precise We know less about the ocean floor than we do possible? We have mapped Mars to a resolution of land on Earth to about 30 centimeters. But most less detail. And that's a big problem because cables across it to carry your internet traffic, it for global trade. 71% of the earth's surface is of what's below it. But hang on, we're smart. Why is For Mars or Earth's surface, we can take pictures. need other ways to see it. And the good news There is a terrifying, incredible, alien world we're using technology to see it more clearly. In friend - to show you how we're mapping the ocean, the and why this new technology could be huge if true. &quot;Map the ocean floor -&quot; &quot;map the ocean floor&quot; &quot;map an ocean floor that nobody &quot;piece together a complete map of &quot;Oh my god this one's freaking gorgeous...&quot; &quot;Nobody really knows quite what's down there...&quot; Mapping the ocean is shockingly hard, largely because think. Imagine that you walk off the coast into already experiencing an entire additional meters, you're passing the verified record for a getting darker and colder. At 828 meters, you're Burj Khalifa. And a thousand meters down the surface can penetrate these depths. No light! you're less than 10% of the way down. 1220 meters, submarines (that we know about). 3800 meters, you the infamous OceanGate submersible imploded. The the faulty submersible in a thousandth of a you up to 90 seconds to die. So, I mean, if you ever or in the deep ocean... choose space! Except... Dory: &quot;It's... so... pretty....&quot; Anglerfish: [HELLO] Dory and Marlin: AHHHHH!!!!! I just... I love the ocean. The deepest recorded You might have heard of this spot: Challenger upside down, there would still be over a mile average cruising altitude of a 737 airplane. The which as you can imagine makes it very hard most of which light can penetrate and humans When I look at Google Maps, I can see what looks we &quot;haven't mapped the ocean in detail&quot;... STEVE: &quot;We don't have good maps of the global seabed.&quot; &quot;What quite a lot of those maps have That's Steve Hall, marine scientist and ocean penetrate past a certain distance, satellites use a how I'm going to look at the ocean forever. Okay, It is ever so slightly the shape of what's below it. Yeah. STEVE: &quot;The gravitational field of the earth isn't absolutely constant, so if there's a deep in the sea surface above it. If there's a mountain, To create some of the topography we're using satellites to send radar pulses down to the surface of the Earth measure the height of the shape of the ocean floor. The next time that second to appreciate how absolutely bananas this doesn't give us a very precise view of the seabed. STEVE: &quot;You're looking at a pretty good approximation of what that has been put together by For example, see these bumps and ridges those are underwater mountains, in it gets blurry. There's just not enough data to created a device that could send acoustic waves for them to bounce back. You've heard of this. that a woman named Marie Tharp turned those mountains and valleys and all kinds of things if not THE first ocean floor maps ever created, However, in researching this story, I exist at the Library of Congress in Washington DC. Now, I'm in New York but JOHNNY: &quot;Maps&quot; &quot;on every map&quot; &quot;earth map?&quot; JOHNNY: &quot;I collect a lot of maps...&quot; I asked my friend and fellow video journalist Johnny really see the progress that we've made. [FaceTime ring] &quot;Hey!&quot; &quot;Hey&quot; &quot;Listen I have a favor to ask. Do you want to go to the JOHNNY: &quot;Absolutely, are you kidding? I will gladly take any excuse to go to the Library of Congress [Johnny's happy place] Oh they're just like pure art. Oh Okay come here, I want to show you. You can imagine bottom of the ocean floor, and they just come back of lines with numbers on them. Like it's super raw, were. It's not a map though. Not yet. And you can pencil to connect all of these lines to start the ocean. So then she took that data and she slices of land that are called profiles. And this mountains now. So then after the profiles her and profiles and then they started to sketch by I mean this must have taken years. And then you do you put them all together other and you start to crude, like here's some of these early versions of first, if not the first published map of the ocean maps I've ever seen. This one from 1977 is As beautiful as all this is, a lot blanks. And that's a problem if you're map of the ocean. So they needed a better way... CLEO: I just love these. like Johnny showed, there were up. Marie Tharp was using data from those narrow we still use sonar to map the ocean floor, but send thousands in a fan that can span several it makes it possible to map much larger areas map? Researchers just gathered sonar data for that much more detail. But we still haven't done that In part to better navigate the deep ocean to do lives by better predicting tsunamis and storms kinds of renewable energy, or because in a crisis STEVE: &quot;Whole new mountain ranges and valleys the search for MH370 that never showed up on a map. People thought well well it should be really it must just be a flat boring surface. It turned mountain peaks where you can Enter, an international group of &quot;Seabed 2030...&quot; The goal of Seabed 2030 is to map the entire ocean floor in detail by 2030. So instead of a get even the most unknown areas mapped down to a mapped down to only a few meters. Nobody's done ways: First they're getting data from new sources. environmental groups to militaries - STEVE: &quot;The Russians are never going to give us their high resolution map of the approaches to the same with their approaches to Qingdao. And we to do is, if they're able to say we're willing to let you that's great. Tt's still giving us a much Second, Seabed 2030 is getting data from the cutting STEVE: &quot;There's two exciting things at the moment. &quot;Unmanned underwater robot&quot; &quot;Autonomous underwater vehicle&quot; &quot;Let's call it an underwater drone&quot; &quot;to explore underwater marine habitats&quot; STEVE: &quot;We call it &quot;mowing the lawn.&quot; back and forth, just trying to go up and taking dull for a human crew to do but the robots are &quot;There's your patch of ocean, go mow the lawn.&quot; And alongside the robots? AI. STEVE: &quot;I'm looking forward to the spot something interesting and It's working! When the project, started ocean floor. Now? 25%. Long way to go but a lot we'll do with these maps. They think that better valuable like minerals to mine, But as Steve put it: STEVE: &quot;The lack of map is not the barrier to any of those people going out there and doing mining. You whether it's a map of the land or a map of the seabed, Saying that we don't want information because That's not what helps people. It's our I think that we can't be afraid of knowledge Humanity's ability to map our environment to understanding it and hopefully using it the last unknown places on our planet. That's I think of it kind of like I think about the all kinds of political ideologies, working together inspiring. The ocean is terrifying and beautiful incapable of diving by ourselves 1% of and our curiosity and our grit over hundreds of a part of a different world. I can't wait to see what we build with that knowledge to That would be truly huge.