The conflict between the Palestinians and Israel, assault on Gaza, is the outcome of a 100 year old backed by major imperial powers, starting with century-long assault by Israel has one objective: historian Rashid Khalidi breaks what he calls six periods; The first is the British support for Palestine from 1917-1939. The second declaration that saw Zionist militias ethnically cleanse and carry out a series of massacres. The third East Jerusalem, and Gaza, and expelled roughly declaration of war on Palestine was Ariel Sharon's followed by the departure of the Palestinian and other parts of the Arab world, and the 1982 The fourth war against the Palestinians began continued with the Second Intifada, and is The backdrop to this century of war by Israel and to offer meaningful support to the Palestinian with Israel to weaken the Palestinian resistance colonial project, how it is being played out in Edward Said Professor of Modern Arab Studies at Years' War on Palestine: A History of Settler I have to say that for anyone who wants to put of a better book. You make the argument correctly, savagery and tactics, but not in intent. Let's only 6% of the residents of historic Palestine of the backing of superpowers, first Britain then Thanks for having me, Chris. I chose to start 1917 because the framing of the conflict as one Israel and the Palestinians is basically false. and that's central to it but without the external none of what we have seen in the past century and later American and other external support the Zionist project from the very beginning. So I war with the Balfour Declaration of 1917, which empire of its day to the Zionist project. Calling &quot;the establishment of a Jewish national home and the mandate that follows it never essential. Removing the Palestinians, eliding not only the Zionist project but of the You're right. The British Empire was never interests were perfectly served by its sponsorship range of regional wartime undertakings. Explain. British issuing the Balfour Declaration and some or Christian Zionism: The belief in the 19th that the return of the Jewish people to the in my view, minor elements in the motivation the British was imperial and strategic; Britain frontier of Egypt under British control, the Balfour Declaration. They also wanted the shortest land route between the Mediterranean and later on creating in that space that runs creating a road system, creating an oil So the British had these objectives in mind: by controlling Palestine and controlling the route between these two bodies of water, which was Indian empire. That's what motivated Britain and change their policy at the end of the 1930s. In historic Palestine, they had been centuries from the 7th century until From the 16th century. sorry. 16th century, yes. Can you talk about Well, nationalism was developing all over among Turks, among Armenians, and among Greeks. in Eastern Europe, which is where Zionism project but it is also a national movement In the case of Palestine, you had a local Palestinian nationalism as part of a broader all over the colonized world and all over much the Balkans and in Eastern Europe: The rise of independence and self-determination in and after World War I. And that's what happens in So there's a clear understanding. It's one is that your family was involved at very where we also see how they're saying one thing amongst themselves. But I want to talk about nonviolent, democratic, they form congresses, Well, the opposition actually begins before opposition is in the press. There's a little bit in different parts of Palestine where Zionist opposition before and after World War I is, as you or after World War I, congresses and government is obviously, and petitions to the as you say, goes absolutely nowhere. 1921, and again in 1929 but the thrust of the essentially demonstrations, strikes, boycotts, and so forth. And it achieves absolutely nothing. the Zionist project. Meanwhile, Jewish immigration the Nazis come to power in Germany in 1933, and a proportion of the whole goes from 17% in as a result of people fleeing the Nazis The US has shut its doors to immigration. So this persecuted population coming out of People who could and would certainly have been out of most Western democracies. And that's in a sense, to go to Palestine, whether they where immigration is unlimited thanks to the be unlimited Jewish immigration to Palestine. in a period of six or seven years. both with educational levels and members of historic Palestine do not have. Transfer Agreement that the Zionist movement to bring some of their capital and some of their not only of the German-Jewish population which but also of a lot of capital. And so the though the Jewish population is under 35%, it I want to talk about the duplicity of you write for example, told several prominent &quot;To beware treacherous insinuations that Zionists the Zionist movement leaders understood that, though the Zionist program required the expulsion lose the world's sympathy.&quot; This duplicity, of covered Gaza and the West Bank, we would file our But talk about this duplicity and its importance. detailed in the very beginning of the book. the first Ottoman Parliament, who had been mayor and knew German; he knew about Zionism. We and Viennese newspapers that he received that are about Zionism. He knew everything about Zionism. after the first Zionist Congress, with a full in Palestine. And he tells him that we respect suffering, and there's nothing more noble than but not here; There's already a people here. from this ancestor of mine, a man named Yusuf completely disingenuous, which completely ignores making. And then says in response to a question intention of driving the population away. If spiriting the population discreetly across the in Herzl's mind. You have to get rid of the Arabs there's no other way to do it. And that in So what Weizmann is saying is profoundly deceptive 1919, because it was always understood that the at that point, a majority Arab country. And a constant ever since. The idea of ethnic in Zionism and which was practiced again and again Gaza. Pushing people into the south of the Gaza there's no other way to, as I've said, create a You quote the Israeli sociologist, Baruch the Palestinian people. Explain that. only people with legitimate rights in this country Israeli Constitution, as of a law that was passed self-determination in the land of Israel. That's that's part of the program of the current Israeli the Zionist project. If there were two peoples to the entire country or to most of it? And this and is incorporated, not only into the Balfour that the League of Nations gives Britain, which League of Nations from 1922 when the mandate 1948. The idea being that there is no Palestinian the Balfour Declaration, except as the non-Jewish as a national entity. They're never described as to be allowed to the overwhelming Palestinian And this approach, which is a British imperial continues pretty much up to the present day. self-determination, and the rights that a nation to demand these things, do it on sufferance, a pale shadow of these things. You look at they're never for full sovereignty; They're for And that approach has been central not only to after 1948, but to the approach of the great Let's talk about the 1936-1939 Arab revolt. how bloody it was. The British, if I troops. They armed Jewish militias. But essentially nonviolent tactics that had failed. among young Palestinians, among middle-class extraordinary rise in Jewish immigration. In 1935, which is larger than the entire Jewish population the paper saying, at this rate, we're going response to the ineffectual leadership of the movement, and in response to this complete Palestinian demands, eventually a general strike The leadership had nothing to do with it. The The general strike goes on for six months, governments which are afraid that this would lead bidding of their British masters, so the king of The general strike ends and the British send out Palestine and give a chunk of it over to a Jewish term is &quot;transferred&quot; i.e., expelled -- The Arab there wasn't a Jewish majority. And the rest King Abdullah. The Palestinians reject this. the overwhelming majority of the country in British are offering them is an insult. So in the countryside turns into a general armed much of the countryside and they lose briefly to bring in reinforcements in 1938 because of troops in Europe, and because they're afraid of their loyalty. Because so many Indians are So the revolt expands and by 1938, the British are train auxiliaries from the Zionist militias whom tactics: Shooting prisoners, blowing up houses and so forth, all of which are the modus operandi become the first generals in the Israeli army; trained by these British counterinsurgency experts this revolt. Finally, after the crisis in Europe the British have reserves that are freed and and they bomb and destroy their way to crushing something like 14 to 17% of the adult male wounded, imprisoned, or exiled. the Palestinians are broken, and thousands of people are summarily executed, many more are taken prisoner, and the Palestinians really going into the 1940s in fact, from the effects I want to go into the Nakba. The relationship eve of World War II because of course, the British Jewish battalion or division, I can't remember. Brigade. Jewish Brigade. 1948, you have attacking the British. They blow up the HQ of Nakba. Then I want to end of course, by talking little bit about the Nakba, or the catastrophe. and they drastically reduced their commitments World War II, they realize they're going to they need the support of the local populations of the Palestinians. And this goes far beyond rest of the Muslim world, and in fact, to much India writing to the cabinet saying, this has this support for the Zionists. This is going to couldn't send troops from India to put down the their loyalty. So Britain does a pivot away from the Zionists, and makes a bunch of promises, which After World War II, the situation is entirely fighting the British, as you say. And secondly, in their view, betrayed by the British, their for strategic reasons and which turned away from very shrewdly are able to develop relations their patrons for the period immediately after they can't hang on to Palestine, they're leaving decide they're going to abandon Palestine and which creates a commission that has a majority most of Palestine to the Zionists, who are at The Jewish population was about 33%-34%, the and yet the Palestinians are given are given 55%. And then there's supposed to be an The Palestinians say, this is our country, the League of Nations and under the charter self-determination. So they reject the partition most of which they owned -- Zionist land a putative Jewish state with a small Arab As soon as the UN partition resolution war breaks out in Palestine. The superior developed with British help during the Arab Revolt brigade coming back and joining into what becomes inexorably starts to take over parts of Palestine. largest Arab cities, the largest cities with cleansed. The populations are driven out. Other which are the Arab parts of the western suburbs So by the time the British leave on May 15, made refugees, 70,000 from Jaffa, 70,000 from of Jerusalem, and tens and tens of thousands in the Arab armies intervene. Flooded by refugees, to intervene. They're forced to do so both different Arab governments. And you have what the war between Israel and the Arab states, in of time. And another 400,000 people are driven in the south and the north of Palestine. &quot;applied a highly developed understanding you were an advisor to, I believe No. In Madrid and Washington. I never had anything to do with Olso. that the inability on the part of the dominant especially the US and Europe. the Palestine leadership in the '20s, '30s, and understanding but basically, they were not very often determined outcomes in Palestine. And that leadership that develops starting in the '50s and in the mid '60s, and is dominant until the end a remnant of it is still there in Ramallah. understanding, especially of the US and the leaders of the Zionist movement, or spent a great deal of time in the West. People He was an immigrant to Britain but he understood she understood American society. She was born in woman. She spoke perfect English. I once very authoritative, very actually charismatic, And that was generally true of people like European society. He understood European And that gave the Zionist movement an enormous trained in Oxford, born speaking English, you advantage that certainly the Palestinians and I would argue did not have during the whole National Movement because even though there western societies, we were not decision-makers. but unfortunately quite rarely. I don't know any other word for it, Jewish praised Jabotinsky as a good fascist. It's always was Meri Kahane in Israel, this fascistic the Kach party. And now that virulent strain, in the Netanyahu government. Talk about that Well, there are two elements: One is the element. The anti-democratic element was not Arabs. In other words, there was a high degree insofar as the Jewish population was concerned. years was under military government. And and a military government for Arabs. Now they general security services, the Shabak, in or in order to get certain jobs. So you had a police state regime for Palestinian citizens of existence and a vibrant democracy for Jews. of Jewish supremacy and of a willingness to or to completely abandon democracy, as who's assassinated at one point. But his thinking later on in the two right-wing parties that are are essentially anti-democratic parties, as well broader set of issues -- Which don't have anything do with a racist colonial attitude towards the the Palestinians don't have the same rights the Palestinians either don't exist, or if they Israel bills itself as a state that is both who lives in Israel said, it's democratic for the a state from which they are excluded, in other only to Jewish citizens of the state, various various rights that have to do with access to are about 18 or 20 laws which systematically the state of Israel inside Israel. And that's Israel rules without any recourse, except military is no law. There is military law. They have about their lives. We're talking about the about the population of the West Bank. a territory from the river to the sea with and a diminishing scale of rights, some for fewer rights for Palestinians who live in occupied the '67 war, and no rights for the several that have been occupied now for 56 years; The You talk a lot about the repression on the movements. The First Intifada, which I covered, nonviolent. You're very critical of the tactics Return up to the fence in the boarder of Gaza journalists and children. But you make a point against the nonviolent movements. Why? Palestinians as terrorists and because sympathy of Western countries. When you can put of saying this is resistance to occupation, which is what it is, of course, and can picture really became most successful under Prime Minister when he hooked Israel up with the American global that they should be a party to anything, well, Obviously this was a tactic adopted by Netanyahu Hamas rule in the Gaza Strip, as a means both of a means of sustaining and deepening the divisions between the Palestinian Authority and between avoiding any negotiations. Well, they're split, them. Therefore no negotiations. Therefore, we we continue dispossessing Palestinians in the and most Israeli governments really So the terrorism label, which again has been attack out of the Gaza Strip, is extraordinarily which are largely accepting of an Israeli which elides completely the oppression that's a that is a necessary daily part of occupation, view the fact that this is a settler-colonial possible and to squeeze the Palestinians cannot be pushed out of Palestine entirely. election in 2006. Israel imposed this siege or Authority, as you point out in your book, really force. Let's talk about the current Israeli government have long called for, the euphemistic Of course, the Biden administration has given but supporting it with what, $13 billion in Israel $3 billion a year. $3.8 billion. So let's talk about this government. version of the Nakba? But as you said, these And they have long advocated for removing, but even Palestinians with Israeli citizenship. not just Jewish supremacy on the right, but demographic transformations of the country. state in a majority Arab country without decreasing the Arab population. It's the logic of up until 1948. And what you see today under this elected in December of last year, and came into has been an accelerated drive for the colonization and since this war began on October 6, a desire to Gaza Strip. This was seen as an opportunity. beginning of this attack by the attackers attackers gave the Israeli right an opportunity Now, we don't only know this from their that American diplomacy played, in my view, the Egyptian and the Jordanian governments to would kick out of the Gaza Strip, and possibly the angry rejections by the Egyptian government, every other Arab government of these ideas, and as soon as they saw that angry reaction; that the Office of Management and Budget billion for Israel. Buried in that on page including people leaving the Gaza Strip. show that the US government was party to the Gaza Strip. As everybody in the Arab world when Israel expels Palestinians from Palestine, and the Jordanian governments understood this with this. They treated Blinken with the contempt to them and the United States eventually repeatedly said now since then, oh, we will not The US government was privy to, party to, first week or so of this war, as is evidenced October 20. You can go to page 40 of it, have money for operations outside of Gaza and anybody cleansing is not allowed to return. This is not, meant by Israel to be a temporary measure. You said. You can read what various Israeli ministers as much as possible of the Gazan population. because the Arab governments wouldn't go along be intended is to squeeze the population of part of that very tiny 20-mile-long area. Gaza already is one of the most populated spots especially among the young, over 50%, half clear that not much is left in Northern Gaza one of the cities in the south, half of the city far more UN workers than they've killed Hamas create such an appalling humanitarian crisis that in Egypt because these Palestinians in Gaza will you see it going? Certainly, the true believers, Netanyahu government, this has long been their Right. Well, they're also engaging in small-scale about 15 or 16 small communities have been now been driven from their homes in the area River Valley by armed Zionist settlers backed by These people argue it's necessary and correct which is to make the West Bank as free as drive them into Jordan because the Jordanians that and have very clearly said we will under no into smaller and smaller areas of the West Bank more of the West Bank serves the same purpose. where this is going to go. We're in the middle, a very short-term four-day-truce. Even if it's and the Israeli government is to continue the intend to do that without more phenomenally high hard to imagine. They've already killed Gazan authorities say 14,800 have been killed perhaps thousands buried under the rubble of their in this mad attack on the population of Gaza. militants is belied by the fact that dozens and Well, they had tunnels underneath. That's not an which is what's happened again and again and again ground floor, so we destroy a 12 story building reading of international humanitarian law, this is the US and Western governments, so they are, to crimes. But it is the policy of Israel clearly Gazan population, presumably to make them pay for army and for the suffering of Israeli civilians ideally from an Israeli perspective, leaving that's not possible, squeezing them into a I don't know what will be the outcome of this. of Gaza. Some have already tried to do so. There relief supplies going into the north to succor the the largest built-up urban area in the Gaza Strip. the Gaza Strip used to live. Where they're is just impossible to foresee at this stage. the Republican party and the Democratic party, government? Where does it come from? I don't alienate the Muslim world at this level. It'll the Arab world and the Muslim world. But That's a very hard question to answer and there is a difference between the party and there's a difference between Democrats and supportive of Israel. This partly may be due to evangelicals look upon the return of the Jewish the appreciation for muscular, colonial, racist of some Republicans. At the top, however, of both a certain generation were led to believe things the '60s and '70s and '80s, we're talking about Senate, look at the president, these are people when the only narrative available was an Israeli tell them, whatever fairytales they're led to The difference is a generational difference two political parties. The Democratic party has a of that base are much more skeptical of Israeli than is the Democratic party leadership. So the in the House and the Senate are solidly pro-Israel party. The difference lies in the base. If you have come out for a ceasefire in opposition to the Black churches put a full-page ad in The New ceasefire. Black intellectuals, Native American much more critical of Israel, especially or than are Republicans, as a general rule. This Latino students or young Arab or Muslim students, look at college campuses and Jewish Voice for divestment of these universities' assets occupation and Palestinian rights generally. Republicans, by the way, but especially among high degree, in my view, of brainwashing among the movie Exodus is an accurate portrayal of reality, and 80s, they don't know better, to be frank access to information than their elders. They do corporate media which is full of lies as far as The picture that is given by the American than the picture given by the Israeli media. I read Haaretz, or The Times of Israel, or Yedioth Ahronoth. There's more disparity and more The Washington Post and The New York Times, or and they have access through social media and elders by and large don't even know exists. they're going to spend $100 million to defeat a ceasefire. They're major donors. And we've seen Columbia and UPenn use the power of the money. The and UPenn is they've groveled before these... Of of trustees run the universities. But it's also in a political system of legalized bribery. across all of the centers of power in our society. only exist with donations that finance their down to city council members. That's true of that's true of the art world; They're dependent universities in a quite terrible way. The concerns about antisemitism has been conflated with And universities have been extremely solicitous who include Jewish students, minority treated in a relatively cavalier fashion. you had a Palestinian child murdered in the or Muslim. You've had three Palestinian students they were wearing keffiyehs. You've had a man shot Jewish man knocked to the ground and killed in a or five incidents of violence, three or four of supporting the Palestine cause or Muslims. And understandable and legitimate for the concerns students, including Jewish students who feel put blindly support Israel, not only does the media general atmosphere in corporations, we won't hire of Palestine, but the university administrations students who are supportive of Palestine, which At Columbia, at Brown, at many other divestment from companies that support the Israeli That's a democratic indication of where a lot of sometimes several years ago. But if you look rights is at least as great, if not greater, shock of the attacks of October 6, when there was for Israelis because of the huge number of perhaps more, Israeli civilians were killed at but that has not lasted in view of the atrocities 15,000 civilians. Well, they're all civilians. view which is that some children are more are more valued than other civilians. didn't they outlaw Students for Justice They outlawed those groups, right? withdrew their right to have events and university Isn't this, to close, because they Zionists. They can't really win the argument. refuge of scoundrels and unfortunately that is antisemitism in American society, most of it certainly in some of the fringes of support for actually can't win the argument, how do you say to justify 56 years of occupation? What can the occupied territories? What can you say to appropriation and dispossession going on in the no arguments that justify that unless you say gave this land to us. You say things like that So you shut down the debate by saying, well, genocidal, which is actually what a university &quot;from the river to the sea, Palestine will be the state of Israel. It's the platform of the there will only be Israeli sovereignty. That was bunch of students are hollering &quot;from the river to government actually is instantiating in law, in the only sovereignty will be Jewish sovereignty. are persecuted for their beliefs. And on supported by people in the US, which is made to that effect. We're operating obviously at unfavorable environment. But in a situation where across American society, especially among right-thinking people who can see through the lies of the mainstream media and the framing You listen to President Biden and it sounds Line after line after line are lines that you hear or you hear from Israeli propagandists. Line after says from the beginning of this war war until Tel Aviv is where the defense ministry is. So we I would argue that people who, for example, want ethnic cleansing of Gaza and its massacre of overwhelming according to polls. An overwhelming Americans oppose that Israeli Biden policy of war over, Hamas is destroyed, in their view. chant &quot;from the river to the sea&quot; they're When Netanyahu uses that term, he's Right. Edward Said Professor of Modern Arab Studies at Years' War on Palestine, which is probably the context. I want to thank The Real News Network Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.