Hey guys, I hope you're ready for another So what fun topic are we going to talk about Well, it's a good one. You and everyone you know and love is going Now I know what you're thinking. Oh great, here comes another one of mossbag's What's next? Is he gonna argue that Silksong is prequel Well, how about I give you an example of a actually does die: Quirrel. The last time we see Quirrel ingame, he is kills Monomon the Teacher. After that, Quirrel disappears, leaving behind ultimate fate left uncertain. Except not really, because Quirrel is definitely Now technically, the question of "What happened And Team Cherry even said as such in an interview Kirk Hamilton: Okay next question. What happened to Quirrel? William Pellen: We don't know. Ari Gibson: Yeah, we're not sure. Kirk: Okay. But if you are a regular to my channel, you And William and Ari know damn well what happened But even still, once we look at the evidence, logically and narratively. So what I am saying? That Quirrel killed himself in some sort of Did he drowned himself in the Blue Lake? Well, I can't really say how he passed away, that Quirrel was ready to die. So before we start talking about what's out something particular about the art asset disappears. Within the game's files, this piece of art Now obviously, there are a lot of different But if I were to hazard a guess, I would say at least they thought so at one point. Now of course, this evidence isn't canonical. But as we dig into what is canonical in the with Team Cherry. There are two main reasons why Quirrel is he abandoned his nail. Let's start with his age. When Quirrel first arrives in Hallownest, He doesn't remember being Monomon's assistant Hollow Knight. He is exploring Hallownest as a traveler, and horror. Eventually, Quirrel arrives in the City of the source of the rain, saying: I'd like to see where it all comes from before What a sight it must be! Now, Quirrel mentions that he plans on leaving But we have to remember that Quirrel doesn't He's going through what we would call a And we can see that his mood will drastically Archives. Quirrel mentions how he remembers the Archives After the Knight smacks Monomon with the magic how he begins to feel his age. Finally, at the Blue Lake, we see Quirrel He mentions how he feels at peace. Even his voice lines here reflect how old At this point, Quirrel has no more reasons He's lived an age and seen the glories of Flukemarm. So he's basically seen Flukemarm twice. Anyone would be ready to go after that. And now we come to the second argument. Why in the fuck would Quirrel leave his nail As we will see, Quirrel is constantly talking For him to just leave one behind implies he alive. In the Temple of the Black Egg, Quirrel mentions handle the challenges awaiting in the kingdom. While in Greenpath, Quirrel also mentions nail when he says: Your nail looks a fine instrument, but it's I'd wager up there it would take you far. Down here however, I suspect you'll soon meet In fact, in the very first encounter we have own death, remarking: Plenty have come before us and most have met you and I. I'm sure they wouldn't mind were tools. It's a kindness really. The dead shouldn't be burdened with such things." So at the end of his journey, Quirrel is choosing be burdened by it in death. He knows very well that abandoning his nail And while there's nothing we can do to stop to him at the Blue Lake I guess, we can still At the heart of every red-blooded human being The same spirit embodied by Quirrel. Let's keep that spirit alive, for his sake. So go ask that cute girl out. Go push that coworker you hate down the stairs. Go Go Power Rangers. Let's remember to explore the world in which Let's remember to appreciate the wonders And most importantly, let's remember to [Appropriate Music for Honoring the life of Qurriel]