- [Announcer] Ladies and - Ooh. All right. All right. Okay. Hm. Oh. Thank you. All right, let's... Let's calm... You don't know the new stuff. Calm down. Super racist nowadays so you do not know what you signed on for. Thank you guys very much for being here. This is a delight. I appreciate you. Thank you. Yeah, it's been a minute since I've been back to Minneapolis, so thank you for having me here. Thank you for coming out and spending your Saturday night with me. I know, listen, if you to this show without knowing who I am, and you just came to a Extra special to you for doing that. That's a bold move to do with your money. I know, I know. It's a weird... &quot;I've never heard of him. It's a gamble.&quot; So thank you. If you do know who I am and I do appreciate you coming If you're the date of I know the speech you got to get here, so. I know the speech they so they're like, &quot;No, but he talks about his feelings. You'll like him, you'll like him. Trust me.&quot; &quot;No, he looks like he in casual conversation, but He's not like that at all.&quot; That being said, like it's tough to be a That's almost like to see and be less tolerant because and encounter so many and that you meet all these people and I want all their money. So I really- I'm trying to appeal to I'm selling out, baby. No, truly, last week I and we spent Labor Day in and it was something it's beautiful and watching look at this landmark. And I was just shoulder like let's go Brandon T-shirts and like don't tread on Just people that hate big government and hate socialism even more, unironically enjoying a national park. But they love America and they appreciate. But then a few days later I This was Wednesday night. I A little crunchy college town. And I was having brunch. And at the table next to And the one lady was saying, I have to use the Bible to determine which And I had a minute where and say optimistically, &quot;It'd be they/them But realistically it's a no/none 'cause that shit's not real. Get your life together.&quot; Oh yeah. But I couldn't say that because my mouth was full of a vegan quesadilla. Woo! yeah! - And that gave me just enough time to pause and be like, you know what? Me and this lady are both sitting here pretending something that isn't is. So- Maybe we all need to lighten the fuck up and start saying hi to people more often. - Woo! - Be cool. You know? Now my goal is not to be divisive. I think that's not helping It's weird that, I don't know. You know, you meet, there's just patriots, a lot of patriots out there. Patriots. Patriots. Love America. They love America and they love the troops, but they I gotta get this piece of fuzz off me 'cause it's a special and I Like you meet these people &quot;We're Americans&quot; and they're patriots and they love the Constitution and they're just, yeah, but it's weird because like they love the military, but you can't criticize the troops but you love the Constitution. And that's got the First Amendment, which allows me to criticize the troops. So which do you love? You And all I'm saying is I've been getting in a lot of bar fights. You can't tell me you Tell me I can't criticize the troops 'cause I'm gonna stand and tell you I don't think And- And there's always some guy with like a grunt style T-shirt Like, &quot;Why not? It's endearing.&quot; No, it's a weakness. And it shouldn't be tolerated. You're telling me these and all it's gonna take is a big feather to get them to spill the beans? That's unacceptable. Unacceptable. Navy Seals shouldn't be ticklish. And also you shouldn't qualify for the CIA if you've ever fallen That should just be the test. That should be one of the tests. Oh, I thought we were just Yeah. On your birthday! If everybody yells &quot;surprise&quot; and you're like, &quot;I had no idea&quot; then the surprise is you I will say this, politically speaking, I will say this, I think eight years in this the whole, &quot;the genre of action movie. I will say that it has deflated my enthusiasm. Man, that was a fun movie, Oh, you'd go right to The president's been kidnapped. Oh no! Who's gonna save him? Channing Tatum. I hope his We were all- We were excited for those. You can't make that movie now. That movie does not have The president's been kidnapped. Well, yeah, I mean. It's not good out there. People aren't happy, man. Inflation's outta control. Well, what are the kidnappers asking for? Healthcare? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean. I mean, don't get me wrong, I'll watch it, but I'm not rooting for who Oh, they saved him. Okay, that's cool. Why are my premiums I'm not going to the I'll just... Like all those action movies. I like the president's I like all, action movies are my escape. The world's filled with drama I don't need to go to the movies for that. I can just look outside and And so- I go, I like action movies because of the escapism, That's how I, plot holes, Give it to me. Why are you in space? Nobody asked. All right. Fine. The only thing that can truly and really just destroy is when the main action hero, when the star like right, like main guy. Right when he does all the action, right after like when's like Okay. Like whenever he wants it The sexual prowess under Okay. Okay. Okay. My favorite action movies that we're in are the &quot;Fast Those are my favorite ones, arguably. Oh sure, sure. But even cheering we know they're the dumbest ones out there. They're dumb, they know they're dumb, and we know they're dumb and we're still like, &quot;Give 'em to me.&quot; How dumb are... The last one was called There's 12 of them. They're like, &quot;It's 'Fast 10.'&quot; Like, aren't there 12? They're like, &quot;Shut up, dummy.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah, okay, fine, it's fine. And the guys that die in They don't even say why. They're just like, &quot;Hey!&quot; And they're like, &quot;Oh, I Like... And they're formulaic, they're elaborate, but Like, right, I'm gonna describe one of the Fast and Fury-Eye to you right now. And pretty sure that's And if you don't know the franchise, you will not know if just pulling it outta my ass. You will have no... And if you do know the franchise, you still will not be sure because they just blend into But say, we'll choose anyone So let's say like three to anywhere in there. You never They've already done their first heist. They've established themselves, you know, this rap scallion crew of Honda Civic jockeys. They've made a few bucks and now they're in different parts of the world just enjoying their life. Ah, we really did it. And that's when just a representative from the US government comes in. Like, &quot;We need this crack &quot;When that was relevant. We're the USA's strongest Nevermind about the Navy Seals, but we're the strongest That's part of the training now. We let puppies lick their toes and if they crack, they're out. But right now, Outside of the best, in the world, none of them So we really need you guys. We need you, bunch of to help us out.&quot; Just a group of international terrorists. It's international now. They can't be from a country because that's problematic, but it's still terrorism, Who are these terrorists? I don't know. That guy's Cuban, I They're just all over the place. They're all over the place now. They've stolen the nuclear It's never the bomb, it's the codes, apparently somebody's just and just leaving them in They always get the codes. It's just somebody like, &quot;All right, I got my keys, I got my wallet, ChapStick. Oh my JanSport full of nuclear codes! I can't believe I left it on the bus. So the terrorists have They've hidden them in a Lamborghini. That's where I hide something. They've hidden 'em in a Lamborghini. Tastefully colored, no, it's orange. Bright orange Lamborghini. And they've stashed it on top That's where I'd put it. You can't put it in the garage. There's a bright orange Lamborghini full of nuclear codes on top of a heavily protected skyscraper in a country that we will not name because this movie needs So- What did I tell you? You know, you gotta appeal. So that's on you guys now to help us 'cause our military can't do it. And they're like, &quot;All right, assemble. All right, who... Well let's first, who that might have like a connection? A guy who knows a guy who knows a guy who might have like just a special Lamborghini lifting helicopter?&quot; And then just outta the shadows comes former hip hop star, Ludacris. Oh, sure. Of course. Can you imagine being someone else? Other than Ludacris? I am convinced Ludacris does I think Ludacris, I think he shows up wearing the clothes he And they just convinced him &quot;With what? Lamborghini &quot;Got it. That's it!&quot; And they call him Ludacris half the time. I'm pretty sure. I don't know his character I don't know. Like, &quot;All right, so Luda. Shit. Oh, should we cut? 'Cause I called him...&quot; They're like, &quot;Nope, we already blew the budget on special effects. Just keep going.&quot; But somehow they get Ludacris And they're like, &quot;All right, cool.&quot; And so that's it. We're like, oh, we're like Short and sweet. They cracked the case, you know? So special Lamborghini lifting helicopters coming over the horizon, And it's a unique looking helicopter, and bad guy's skyscrapers over They got a vantage point with elevation. They're like, &quot;That kind of helicopter. Maybe one specifically designed for picking up Lamborghinis And then the bad guys are like, &quot;Well, should we double check? Like we're the bad guys.&quot; They just shoot it down right there. And you're 25 minutes into the movie. Like, &quot;Well, oh no, what are we gonna do? That was the plan.&quot; And so now we gotta go where everybody's hanging out and we're like, &quot;All that was our one shot. So now we gotta go real unorthodox. Maybe something like with math and science and engineering, do we with like that kind of brain, that could like figure out to get the car off there? Oh yeah. Former model, Tyrese. Of course!&quot; Of course. When I think of engineering Tyrese I believe is reading the script just below the camera at all times. &quot;Oh, what's up? Y'all need help getting a Lambgin... That says Lambgina, man. That's how it's spelled? Oh. Y'all need to get a And then they just cut to a and numbers on it. And he just goes, &quot;There.&quot; You know, like they just just make geometric shapes And that's when Tyrese's like, &quot;Well, if you drive it of the building and you on account of a Lamborghini It's got doors like this. So if you get enough speed, it could actually travel &quot;That sounds like back to the future.&quot; &quot;Shut up, man. And so if you got enough speed...&quot; &quot;Alright, so that's the plan. We'll fly the Lamborghini.&quot; &quot;To where?&quot; &quot;Okay, well, I guess we could just like get a short-term lease across the street. We'll just roll in with some According to Tyrese's calculations, we really only need We really only need those, given That's where the Lamborghini So we get a short-term lease there.&quot; &quot;Absolutely, short term lease. &quot; &quot;All right, but now we Who do we have amongst our that is strong enough, that We all know who it is. That's who's coming in My man, Dominic Toretto. &quot;I just go by Vincent these days.&quot; He hears him talk about, he scoots out from underneath some hot rod that's blowing up in every movie. Every movie that car just And the next one starts with him like . Apparently all you need is like a 5/8 wrench. And be like, &quot;Back in action.&quot; He scoots out with a and just stands up like, &quot;I'll do it.&quot; He's only got five lines. And he rolls in there, he He just starts at the bottom. Just indiscriminately, just kills. Shoot, shoot, shoot. Shoots him, shoots him, shoots this guy. Gets to one floor. Like, What's happening?&quot; &quot;No witnesses!&quot; Shoots him, shoots him, shoots him. Gets up to what. &quot;We're just United What's going on?&quot; Double tap, double tap, double tap. Hell, I gotta fly them tomorrow. He just kills everyone in the skyscraper and gets up to the roof where the Lamborghini He gets in and he just, where he is just like is horny for the car where he's like, &quot;Mm.&quot; You know? Why? He fires it up, backs up, shoots it towards the edge of He pops the doors. That's it, they're the wings, it's flying. Of course, it's flying. We've all agreed that this is real. I'm on my third bag of popcorn just going, &quot;Of course it works. Tyrese knows math.&quot; Absolutely with him on this 100%. But then there's one There's one guy and he's but he's dedicated to being a terrorist. And he's like, &quot;Oh&quot;, he and he says something hacked 'cause they didn't pay So this guy's just or some shit. You know, like something dumb. And he's got one bullet but it doesn't hit Vincent and it doesn't hit like the undercarriage, like it just hits the window in the door, which that's where the lift exists for the Lamborghini to fly. Oh no, his whole plan unravels! Now the Lamborghini's spiraling and Vincent's like, &quot;Ah, And it's spiraling. It's not gonna go to the designated floors that they got a rent on. It just smashes into the And Vince, he thinks quick, he flips out outside, he grabs a seatbelt. He's just holding, he's dangling off the side of the building. He's holding onto like an office chair that's hooked on an of a under construction office. And he's holding onto the Lamborghini by the seatbelt, just And he's looking, his shining in sunlight. And he looks at that and &quot;Oh yeah, family!&quot; And he just... You know, which is such... That's weird that that's you know, because the his dad killed him. That's a weird thing to go with. But he's just, that's &quot;Family.&quot; And he just, &quot;Ah!&quot; And he flings a Lamborghini over his head into the office up there and he says, &quot;Ah.&quot; And he's got glass coming and he's bleeding. He drags himself in there, and the rest of the crew, they all rush up to make sure he's okay. And they're like, &quot;Oh my God, I can't believe that was so close.&quot; And the main, like the starlet, she shows up for the first five minutes in the movie and disappears. But then she's there at the end. Like she was part of And she's like, &quot;Oh, I can't believe... I'm so glad you're safe. Don't you do that ever again.&quot; But then she's like, &quot;But also the way you saved I just, ooh, every time you we should fuck.&quot; And he's just laying there And that's the part of the movie where I'm like, &quot;Okay, I gotta... I was with you the whole time, I was with you from Ludacris from Tyrese knowing science. I was on board with everything, flying Lamborghini instantly, of course. But there's no way he's Not then, no. I just want one action movie where it really hits the realism where it's just like everything happened, the explosions death, blood. And I just want the main guy What? Are you fucking around? Did you not see what I just... Can I get like 20 minutes? Jesus Christ.&quot; &quot;This is what horns you up? What's wrong? I just killed all those guys. And not to mention I ran but those guys had families. I'm sad about that. You don't... And also, I've been at all day with this plan. I am just now, I think this is rebar that went through a kidney. My blood pressure's plummeting. But I mean, if you need but it won't be good. It won't. I hope you're 'Cause we're gonna have because I am fighting right now of a blackout. And I need fluids, not I need fluids and monitoring and I will be passing out But if you wanna give it a shot with the EMTs looking over us, I could try and thumb it in I mean, that's the best I can promise you is every 30 seconds, I'm just gonna be slapping my dick against my hand, like a TV remote with a dead battery. So, I mean, we can try, but I'd love six to eight Just to be honest with you there.&quot; So that's... Just give me an ounce of I'm just here to tell you one story. That's about it. I just gonna tell you a story, unleash you on the night. So I have moved back to the suburbs. That's what I've done. No kids, no marriage. I just That was my big whole thing. And I thought I was gonna do great. 'Cause it's weird. Like, I mean, suburbs not what you hear a super cool guy talk about, but no, I thought, you like I'm from the suburbs and I was like, &quot;Okay, yeah, maybe it's just, you know, I'm middle aged. It's okay to like cool down and stop trying to die every night.&quot; But I'm from a town That's where I'm from. Doesn't matter. It's the same suburb. Whatever suburb you're They're not different. You &quot;But mine has a 31 Flav...&quot; No, no, they're all the same one. You know, they're all, it's everywhere. A poorly marked exit that you got- Just cut off, you know, semi-trucks, like, &quot;God damn it!&quot; Get on some cloverleaf right between a TGI Fridays and a Chili's. Yeah, that's the one. There's always a family in the parking lot between those two restaurants confused. Yeah. Every time, every time. It's always just the dad. He's always just like, &quot;Well, yeah, I know, but which one's got that prolapsed onion thing I like so much?&quot; &quot;All of them, Darryl, only &quot;Okay.&quot; Yeah, that's the one. My parents still live there. My parents are still in the I guarantee you they're in that house right now at this very moment. Just both in separate all playing HGTV at different volumes where conversation used to live. Just &quot;Property Brothers&quot; echoing like the national anthem Have you thought about a French drain? French drain. French drain. They're great. They're there, you know, You know, parents are. Both there. I still love 'em. I still talk to 'em but it's, My mom, ooh, how do we say this? Verbose is not a long enough word to describe how my mother abuses the privilege of conversation. Is that too mean? Is that... Let's put it this way, the woman tells a story the cracks an egg into a frying pan. Does that make more sense? Oh, you're gonna get that omelet, but you're gonna take a lot of unnecessary twists and turns to get there. What's that, an example? Sometimes you gotta grease it. I called her up. When I call her, I know that So I just, I clear my schedule, I get snacks and waters around me and I'm like, &quot;All right, here we go.&quot; Time to hit the space station. You know, you just get your necessities around you and strap in. And I called her up and I called her. I started optimistically, I'm And I call her and I was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; I was like, &quot;Hey Ma!&quot; That's how I started. &quot;Hey ma!&quot; Good energy. And that's how I called. She answered the phone, And then her response, she just goes, &quot;Ugh.&quot; Right there I was like I We are not gonna make it She goes, as if she's she goes, &quot;Ugh, Kyle.&quot; She goes, &quot;Do you know the Now I know that game's but I don't want to correct her. That's gonna add time on the clock. That's what we're trying to avoid. All right? Talking to my mom. It's improv rules. Yes, and, you just gotta It's the only way. Anything said is the truth Can you just accept and move forward? Words From Friends, I'm like, &quot;Yeah, Mom, it's like Scrabble.&quot; She goes, &quot;Kyle, it's like Scrabble.&quot; Then she spent the next the game of Scrabble to me, that's a game that we've played together. I blacked out. I came to I don't know The house smelled delicious. I'm not sure. I came to, when she was was the logical conclusion This was the finish She goes, &quot;So anyway, Liz of her lower intestine removed.&quot; How she got there from fucking phone And I'll never know. If you have an idea, hit Give it to the kids. They're imaginative. If you're a teacher, even &quot;Hey, creative writing exercise today, kids, take out a pen and paper. We're gonna try something We're gonna start here. All right. Words From Friends. What? No, I know it's wrong. Work it into the piece. We're starting here. Now we wanna land here That's where we're gonna end. And if you can get there Pulitzer Prize, probably, I don't know. At least a full ride to a state school. I can't... I've had This shit up on the This is like some &quot;Goodwill I have no idea.&quot; But good on her for having I think that's why their like my dad is the complete opposite. My dad will say something meaningful once every three to five years. That's when he's like, &quot;You That's about it. I remember one time, I stay over there when I'm back in town most of the times. And I woke up in the morning and I was making a cup and I put cream and sugar in that coffee 'cause that's how I My dad just appeared next to me, just fully dressed, tucked in. Like what are you doing? You own this house and He's just looking at what And he's just looking at it for a while. And then just after me, he gestures to the coffee and just says, &quot;Why don't I've drank black coffee since that day. Do I like it? Not at all. No. But Daddy's love, oh yeah! Oh. That's not an ulcer. That's just Pat Kinane letting We don't say I love you. We just bleed out into That's how you know, that's how you know. In spite of him saying that, I appreciate that. He is They're just both, they're Midwest. They're stuck in their You got parents, older relatives. Like this is how we do it. Oh, change is the devil. So we just, we gotta do it this way. Like my dad still, my dad with a glass of milk. Yeah. What, are you trying to put it What's... Some sort of culinary ship in a bottle you're trying to build down there? Hey, I got a idea. Let's get You can cosplay the whole One of the times I was back home and I was going out to We were going out to a because I'm vegetarian, But well, you don't have to say that unless you want to get It's really such an efficient way to cull the herd. We're all thinking about going out to eat. What's everybody want? Well, just remember, I'm a pescatarian. Shut the fuck up, Kyle. Nobody asked or cares. We just figured you'd stay home and lick the yard for Why don't you go dunk and suck on that for So, we're going out to and I invited my dad to go. And he's not like macho about stuff. He'll go to things and he was actually excited. He's like, &quot;Oh, that's great. Yeah, I've never had vegetarian food.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah, you have. It's been right next to I took him to this vegetarian restaurant and he ordered a veggie burger, safe bet for somebody 'Cause I could tell he is It won't be, but you know. Anyways, it's a familiar term And so I ordered a veg burger and I got to watch my for the very first time. And, you know, maybe so maybe this is what people talk about when you have kids, you get to watch 'em experience something new and it rekindles like, oh, that's what like a new thing is like, and it's like exciting That's what I got watching my dad eat a veggie burger for the first time. And it was great to see him eat it because he did not like it. And that made it so much more 'Cause I knew he was gonna finish it. Midwest, you finish your I don't care if you don't like it. You clean plate, you clean your plate. So I watched that man just reluctantly fight through a veggie burger. He wasn't gonna speak up It was weird too 'cause I don't know why. He has teeth. They weren't like just on the table, but he wouldn't bite. I could tell in his head This ain't flesh. So he was only using his lips and his tongue, which The best way I could eat a veggie burger is a gay guy reluctantly go down on a woman just because that's the corner of the orgy he was stuck in when Because you know, orgies it's like musical chairs, you know, when the guy with the you just gotta get to what's next to you. You know, orgy, they're in a cul-de-sac, you know, and it was always the husband's Everybody's oiled up and nude. But the husbands are by second guessing their plan. You know, just trying to get half mast, making more eye contact then they've ever made their life like, &quot;Nah, sports. Sports, right? Sports actually. Yeah, sports. What is that, hummus? I saw yours. I'm sorry. Ah! I guess you could look at mine. Shit, this is weird. Why'd we decide to do this?&quot; And all the wives are on this with the one gay couple that moved to town 'cause that's who's gonna they're like, &quot;All right, ladies, listen, this can be a very enriching It's nerve wracking at first. Have a zanie, have a champagne. We're gonna get through this together. This could actually open up so many more possibilities Now if there are insecurities, and your relationships may suffer. Diane. Oof. But for the most part, this it could really be a growing experience for you and your part...&quot; And that's when a guy and a green NASCAR flag comes And then, because so the gay guys are just surrounded by oiled up naked women ladies, just hold still. We gotta munch through these So just hold still.&quot; And that's how I watched And so I think... What your main takeaway right now is I don't think Kyle's ever been in an orgy. No, I have not. I most certainly have not. But... And it's weird that that's where I jump to watching my dad just... &quot;How you doing there, buddy?&quot; &quot;Oh, it's just a lot mushier than I thought it was gonna be.&quot; &quot;Yeah, the videos aren't &quot;What is that, a bean?&quot; &quot;If you're doing it right? Yeah. If you're doing it right.&quot; It's fine. We're fine. Everybody's fine. But that's the vibe I thought I was moving back to in the suburbs. Like I'm gonna move to the suburb. I thought first off, I to the suburbs, I came because I came in with city energy. I was living in Los Angeles And if you like city like you just get real used to things that you shouldn't be getting used to. Like you shouldn't be casual about some of the stuff 'cause you're in a city and that volume just slowly gets turned up. You know, just frog in the boiling water until you're just coming saying shit like, &quot;Man, is out in front of 7-Eleven again.&quot; He's always saying something wild like, &quot;And I'll do it again.&quot; I don't doubt you will, my man. I'm sorry, sir. I figured out it takes to go from the Red Box machine so if you time it out just right, you can get in and out Makes that Slurpee I'll tell you that. Mm-hmm. That's a little sugary Watch out though, if he nicks you, you're gonna have to get a tetanus shot. That's never any fun. So that's the energy I moved back with. Like I just came in hot 'cause we moved there like And that's when I got into town, I'm like this is how I'm I'm gonna move in the suburbs. This is how I'm gonna win I'm gonna be full-sized That's how I'm gonna be. Everybody loved full-sized candy bar guy. As a kid, you're like, &quot;That guy rules! Don't egg his house. This guy rules.&quot; Everybody loves full-size candy bar guy. And that's how I was gonna I'm gonna be full-size candy bar dude. Here's the thing I did not realize 'cause I was coming in is that in the suburbs in the beginning of a pandemic and then just try to be without having children of your own, it has the inverse effect. I'm just sitting out on my porch under the one light that was working 'cause I didn't get around just waving king-size, Snickers going, &quot;How can I tell if you're Spider-Man unless you come closer?&quot; Just waving children in like I Like... &quot;Hulk wouldn't be scared.&quot; So that didn't help with ingratiating myself into the suburbs. Yeah, that was like strike one And it really was, it was like a lot of new And we just moved in, like no kids and people just eyeballing like how dare you be here without children? Where are your children? Where are they? Why don't you have 'em? What's wrong? Is it you? Is it her womb? Like Jesus Christ. I just spend my time trying to learn ZZ Top songs on guitar. Fuck off. You got legs, you know how to use them. Fuck off. Do not reward mediocre comedy. Do not. But it was, they would just mad dog us 'cause there's so many like baby stroller Sturgis, just pushing them down the street. And so yeah, that didn't help. None of it helped. None And the reason we moved there, we moved to a suburb of Portland, Oregon. That's where we moved to. But the reason was, it was, there was a house that opened up. It was in my girlfriend's family. This house had opened up and they asked us, you know, beginning of pandemic, things are crazy. &quot;Do you wanna move up of what you're paying in rent for a whole house with a lawn?&quot; Like, yeah, yeah, I'll do that. Yeah. Seems a good choice. And it was weird, not just also just internally, because I knew that this house and we moved up and we're excited. Main bedroom, we're and we're gonna each get our own little bedroom to be an office. We're gonna get our own But right when we got up there, my girlfriend started corralling me towards one particular room She's like, &quot;What about this room, Kyle? Don't you like this This would be a good, this I think you would get work done. You look cute in here. You really look cute in this room.&quot; And I was buying. I'm You know, yeah, I feel cute in here. I feel cute in this room and this would, I think this would be a good office.&quot; Then I was like, &quot;Ooh, Is this the room that your mom died in?&quot; And it was, so. I understand. I wish she was just honest We've been together for a long time. I would've understood if she's like, &quot;Hey, I don't want to My mom passed away in here.&quot; Like that makes total sense. She didn't have to But now that's my room, that's my office. That's where I do my work. Let's just get to the point. All right, masturbating already has a level of shame to it, just added tax right away. Just why am I doing this? If I see a reflection of myself, I am not happy about it. Now take that and add apologizing to the ghost of your mother-in-Law after each and every time. And let me know what that Let me know how you recover from that. Oh, global pandemic, Well how about a momentary Get it, di, di, di. That should be fine. Oh Oh. This must seem very disrespectful. So that was rough for me. On a personal level. So yeah, a lot of things We wound up, we got a cat. We didn't get a cat. The house came with a cat. House, just... We were just there. There's a cat. Yeah, was out. We weren't even sure the because it was fucked up looking. It looked... There was some real &quot;Pet Cemetery&quot; action covered scrub brush and Had like David Bowie eyes, you know? What are you looking at? Everything? Nothing? What's going on with you? Would always just appear from Just always one of these. It took us about six weeks before we admitted to each She said at first like, I'm like, &quot;You see it too? All right. Thank God!&quot; I was getting nervous. I thought we had hob I'm new to the Pacific Northwest. I don't know what's going out there. Everything's just fog and ferns. I don't know what's scrambling So the cat seemed like It wasn't like friendly, friendly, but it was like hanging around us enough. And so we're like, well so we should find out before we start messing So we took some pictures of it and we went door to door to Also probably a shortsighted you know, pandemic, Hey, here's the new childless out-of-state people going door-to-door. Like, &quot;Is this your cat?&quot; And people were like, &quot;Get Yeah, you're right. Yeah. The old guy next door answered the door, but the chain's still on the door. He was just like, &quot;Oh that cat. Yeah. That's nobody's cat. No. That cat there, that cat Yeah, that cat come up from and just roams amongst the mist, just eating dreams and That's what that cat...&quot; Man. just say it's not your I don't have time for a folklore. I got other neighbors to harass. And we found out from that cat had actually been for about 16 years. That's the how far back they can remember. This is a stray cat and for 16 years just been living on the streets of this neighborhood, of the place so we're Fuck it. We are taking this cat in. So we got the cat to come inside. This is our cat. We named it. As much as you can name a cat, let alone one that's been doing It's mostly just for reference So at first we were calling it, at first we were calling it Helen. We thought it was blind and deaf. So we were calling Helen. You know what, I didn't name it that, my girlfriend named it that. So you're not mad at And yeah, I will throw her under the bus making me beat off in her dead mom's room. Yeah. All's fair, babe. She's calling it Helen. I was calling it Dirt Nap. That's how I was calling the cat. On account that it would sleep But also it looked deceased That cat looked like it Like, oh, cats sleep weird. But like draped over a just with its eyes open I walked up to it with It is like, well, this is a sad day and it'll just run off. I'm like, &quot;Oh, look at you.&quot; Look at you, you a little crisis actor. You got an agenda and I And that's what I like about Little cross-eyed ghoul. Yeah. Dirt Nap. Little Dirty, Little D. I'm gonna be calling her Little Also be referring to her as she and her. We thought it was female cat. Turned out it was a neutered male, but we didn't find that out until later. So, Jenny Nooch for for some of the time. And then for special occasions, And by special occasions, just when you could say something truthful that it's more funny when Miss America shit on the couch again.&quot; And if you can time that out, right, for when like a new mom is They're already against us so might as well just feed 'em. What are they doing to that We got this cat and we brought it in. We're like we're gonna give years we can give it, you First we took it to the vet, We took it to the vet and vet right away, the vet was just like, &quot;Oh, It's thyroid, it's bad thyroid. It's gotta be on a special That's a prescription diet. There's prescription cat food out there.&quot; Why? Who's trying to get the cat food? That's not okay, man, man, hook me up. Hook me up with that And like five cats in a trench coat rolling in like, &quot;Hello, we're here to Trying to make that cat meth, dog. Come on man. Come on.&quot; It's a prescription. You can only get it I'm like, &quot;All right, I know it was middle of pandemic and I was all about the but the veterinarians, hm, they know they got that giant gray area of your lack of knowledge that they can abuse about the animal... Like if you go to a doctor and you're like, &quot;My ankle hurts.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Could You're like, &quot;Well, but you go to a veterinarian that you love but can't communicate with. And you're like, &quot;Oh, what's My little guy here.&quot; They could just say anything like, &quot;It's the alternator.&quot; And you're just like, Yeah, I get...&quot; You know what, that makes sense 'cause his eyes were His eyes were dimming. That's a 2003 Calico with a lot of miles. Those are city miles. I thought the timing belt Yeah, yeah, yeah. That makes sense. What are we running on those? Huh? 1500? No sh, okay. That's with labor? All right. Yeah. Hey listen, hey, real quick on the side, say we do this in cash, you got like a similar model out back that like you can part out or? Ethical reasons. Sure. No, say no more. Say no more. No, nobody's Frankenstein So you just gotta believe him, you know? So I come home with a $70 I open the door, I can Little D's outside, she's bird's dead, bird's dead. She's just slapping it against the house. Playing's also a real She is playing the same way It's not for fun, you know? That's just maintenance That's all. The only thing missing was like a cigarette behind her good ear and a teardrop tattoo. Just bitching about not making parole. Like they got me doing the full 12, man. Ooh, if I get outta you're gonna see me right back in here. And I can tell it was a fresh kill 'cause she was about six feet out and getting a good return on her. And so I come in with this food, I'm just shaking it like . Little D, ha, ha, I'm Look at this. And she looks up 'cause she can hear, it's selective, but she can hear. And she looks up, she knows it's food and she looks at the food and then she looks at me She's like, &quot;Oh, you're Watch this.&quot; And then she just ate the bird. Like at me, like maintained And I know cats eat birds, Like I assumed it was gonna be messy, but with strategy, that's what I thought. Like it's a whole bird. I thought it was gonna be like brutal. But you know, with technique, Like the same way, like where we get bong ripped, stoned, just get a rotisserie Those nights you get home, I'm going elbows deep on this bitch. Like those kind of nights. That's what I thought I would've seen. What I saw and was not prepared for was the full on David Blaine street magic disappearing act that just fuck, gone. Entire thing disappear. One &quot;Forest Gump&quot; feather for effect. Still looking at me like, &quot;Hmm.&quot; &quot;What did you, what? Where did it, is it in my pocket? Oh my God. Is it just gonna be alive over here? That is, what you did is something spe... I gotta call this vet back.&quot; And I rang him up right &quot;Yeah, hey doc, I don't know if you got a plan B for this whole thyroid thing, but Little D been in out in these streets, just consuming her own enemies for the better part of So if you got some alternatives, And that's when the vet &quot;Oh, chicken baby food's for a thyroid issue too. You could feed her chicken baby food.&quot; Oh, chicken baby food. Oh the shit that's 50 cents a jar. You could have led with So that's my life now when I'm just buying racks I'm just buying full just And every morning that I'm and I gotta heat up a little Because now that we're an indoor cat, we got particular about temperature. So I got heat up this little and I throw up through just, . And we feed this to our human babies? You women are savages! I do that. And then I go and then I 'cause these are the things you have to do when you let vermin live in your house. I go and I just, and to get I just squat over it and pretend that I'm just an optimistic prospector and this is my lucky day 'cause it's the only way to get through sifting through that is &quot;Oh, I got a good feeling. That's a big one. That one's pure gold. Me and That's a poop. Okay, all right. Ooh, look at this one coming down stream. Ooh boy, I take that to the That's just a piss Third time's a charm. I'll Anything to get me out of the dusty old... Well, that's a poop too. I That's just a fun thing to do for me because you gotta be Now, here's how this also is that where I live in Oregon, they take their recycling very seriously. And I'm happy about that. I'm I like to see a recycling program that it actually at least is gonna go to where they If it's a lie, it's a very elaborate one. And I play along for it. This goes here and then this one here and this one and the little one. Sure, fine, I will go along with it. 'Cause when I lived in LA, we We were up in arms. I lived in Hollywood. We were like, &quot;How can We're Hollywood, people for role models and how dare we.&quot; And just people passive about it 'cause it's performative. And then the city's here's a recycling bin.&quot; And we're like, &quot;Now that's great. We're doing the right thing now. Can I put styrofoam in here?&quot; And they're like, &quot;You could It's not going anywhere Why don't you just make believe Just lie to yourself. That's Just make pretend. This one's for trash and this one makes Just bullshit yourself. But now in Oregon, god that's paper on the outside I gotta wait for the garbage man to see me from down the block. And I gotta do some elaborate and be like, &quot;You'll never And then I gotta run into the My glass items get their That's where glass goes for recycling. Bright red tub, no lid, open for judgment at the end of the driveway. My bright red tub of glass only has two types of It is overflowing with That would be baby food That is the only two types That's the only glass that's Nobody has seen a child For three years, these women went, the newborns to toddlers. They're talking, they're and just looked at that &quot;What are they doing in there?&quot; It is a matter of days right now before family services rolls And I'm gonna be the one that's home during the day just answering the door, just shirtless drunk on &quot;Mr. Kinane, we just I'm like, &quot;What baby? There's nothing.&quot; There ain't no baby in here. It's just me shirtless That's all it is. Fucking baby, the only thing Hold on a second. Lemme tune up. Lemme tune up. What did I tell you about That was a test. You failed. No baby. Look around for a baby. If I had a baby, there'd be a baby crib. There'd be baby clothes. There'd be baby toys out in the yard. Come out in the yard. Look, you see any baby toys in the yard No baby toys in this The only thing you'll like a bunch of little bones. And they're like, &quot;What?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh, no.&quot; I got this cat, right? And he eats birds but It eats a whole bird. And I know it could eat the birds, but where do the bones go? Because it eats the bones. What happens to the bones? It's eating bones and you're scientists. And like, &quot;We're not, we I'm like, &quot;Same thing. Like, &quot;Sir, we don't see a cat I'm like, &quot;Fuck, I knew God damn it!&quot; This is all making a lot of sense 'cause we had to invite it in. It just stood out by the patio door. Would you like to come And that's when the curse had befallen us. Oh, oh, this is all, ooh. Ooh, Little Dirty. You're living up to your name. Yeah, so, so throughout all this riff-raff, I started to go to therapy. Oh, a comedian who goes to therapy? What an original premise. Kinane leaving no stone unturned. No, I started going to therapy on account of everything I just told you. And... Well, so one of the things I forgot I had seasonal depression. I forgot about that part There's no seasons, it's just summer and then cute hats for a little while. I got to Oregon and like, &quot;Remember me? Hide the knives!&quot; I'm like, &quot;Ah, you son oh a.&quot; Oh, my gloomy old friend is back. And even talking about it's stupid, like it at a farmer's market. Like nobody takes it seriously. Is the depression in season? Oh, it's right down here Isn't that like... Which is a better name for it. It's also like people that in the first place think you just to seem more that are already a pain in the ass. Like, &quot;Oh look, who's a His snowflake has fingerprints.&quot; Like you don't get the time of You never will. But then the people that have don't really take you seriously because they think you're some sort of like fair weather sad sack that's piggybacking on So it's this whole kind of like, look who's only got depression kind of attitude from that crowd. Take off the jersey. So I started going to therapy and, you know, I've had my issue and I've talked about it in the past, and I have like an awkward And I don't know if it's or maybe it's like a Midwest thing. Like I was saying, like no, this is just the way you do things. I just was raised with like no, you are who you are and that's it. Not good. Bummer. That's the hand you're dealt. So you're a dickhead turns out. Well, what do you do? Well, if you go change, you go get better, then you're not a dickhead anymore. Now we don't know you. And now it's on us to That's why we wrote &quot;don't We thought you were an asshole and we want you to be an That's easier for us. Yeah, you have personality but that's what makes you you. And so I really grew up up with this idea that you just absorb your faults and that's, you know, you That was my attitude for a long time. &quot;Well, if God didn't why'd he gimme all these cuticles? You know? I know my crowd. I know who's out there. We've all had those days. Having a rough one, Kyle? There's two handfuls of panic snacks. You just- You just go lock yourself and go full blues traveler on them shit. Then you hide your in your pockets for the rest of the day so your coworkers don't how to process your feelings correctly. You're fine, you're fine. Yeah, but I don't feel fine. Shut up. Okay. So I started going to therapy. Problem with therapy, like A big key of it was it be It's a neutral territory. You could just say whatever, you know, nobody on the other side of the walls gives a about what you're talking about. And that's the helpful part of it. I couldn't, it was beginning of pandemic. I couldn't go in person, so I was doing telehealth which there's already that And it was tough 'cause, you Well, first off, like, It's me and my girlfriend We're the only ones in there. So now I'm doing the And so I have to like try If you think your and creepy, wait till you And that just magnifies 'em into a whole other realm with my noise canceling headphones on, talking to a stranger on the screen. Like, so I think that the has been watching me masturbate and... I was like, &quot;Well, that's not good at all. I should probably just stop masturbating.&quot; I was like, &quot;Well that's So- So I'm like you just need to persevere. So I thought that's the old college tribe. But I think I over 'cause now I'm in this place unless there's a representative of the afterlife watching over me. And I don't think that's So I'm just saying I need you to kind of come back and correct me 'cause I'm getting real and I just scrambled it And I need you to undo the... And my door just gets kicked in. My girlfriend's like, I'm like, &quot;I'm doing I need some privacy if this is gonna work. And also, yes, but- So that arrangement wasn't working out, but I realized I could get so I just go sit in my car and that's where I do therapy. And that was great. That was like just go out there and that's where I'd have I would go out there and I'd and I'd just put the and I'd get all my issues out. And it felt good. I was They're called breakthroughs when you have this big emotional and emotional, you know, But it was good I was having those and I knew good things were happening. I knew good things were happening, but the neighbors, no context for what was going on. They just saw this shuffle out to a Subaru Crosstrek every and cry for a while. And it was a few weeks into it. That's when I realized like, oh, the neighbors were just This is all adding up. But I mean, not like but probably happened That's why he's the That's why he goes out to cry there. He can't cry in front of the baby mama. He gotta be strong for her. She's sad too. So he goes out, and he goes out to the Subaru to cry because those are very safe vehicles. I don't even if you know, not but also just the in the I don't know, they're really... I don't think I've ever I was in a Forester once, It was just... But it's all adding up, the baby. That's why he's eating all the baby food. He bought a big old Costco sized pallet of chicken baby food at the Can't go back and forth to the store with the virus, with a newborn. So he just bought a bunch of it, like, 'I'm gonna have a strong boy.' And then tragedy struck, So they're just working through the chicken baby food themselves. And it's just sad. And they're just, you know, they're just drowning All right, well. That's not the alcohol I would associate with grief, you know, but- But you can't measure grief. Grief's different. You One person's grief totally different than I would think like a scotch or vodka but he's trying to go having more of like a More of a beach side, sunny day grief, especially with this weather. Probably got seasonal So they're just trying... I wouldn't be surprised if we found some margarita mix in there. This is all coming together for us now. This is all, poor Miss America. There is a fresh pile with Miss America.&quot; Jesus Christ I really am my mother's son. Oh. Look, what I've been trying, long story short, we did not get a lot of trick or treaters at the house. I got so much candy left over. If you guys, you know, find hey, I got Three Musketeers, Snickers, Payday for the older gentlemen. I know you like that. So just look me up. I'll hook you up. You guys, thank you so much for coming. I appreciate it. You guys are phenomenal. Thank you very much. Have a great night.