Transcriber: Rhonda Jacobs Human beings are the only animals capable of contemplating and they've been doing that And yet somehow in the very recent past, we have lost the practical wisdom I think that that's a problem. And if you agree with me then we have to work out When she was in her mid-20s in the 1920s, my grandmother was already deeply familiar with the sequence of events as they were coming And that's because as a woman - she was doing what women looking after people at the very end in their own homes, because hospital had nothing to offer once a person was so sick And yet when I reached I had none of her wisdom and understanding and that was even though I'd just finished As a newly qualified doctor, I'd spent five years being trained And actually, if a death happened, it was a thing that was seen It was a thing that was embarrassing. It was a thing of which we do not speak. Why the difference? And why within just Well, think about over the course of the 20th century. It was not worth going to hospital But by the 1960s, '70s, think of the fantastic progress so the people who were so sick of course, we took them to hospital there were really clever anesthetics that allowed surgeons to spend a long time There were new and very sophisticated for kidney failure. There were intensive care units. There was transplantation of organs, Medical progress was astonishing. Taking dying people to hospital and that is fantastic. And yet. And yet by taking dying people out of home we changed our understanding we lost our ownership of the process and we forgot what dying looked like. So having been qualified for just over Having originally intended I've spent the last four years where the most sick people were. And then I realized that actually was the detective journey and the emotional integration of feeling during the very end of life, But I'd been working in a big teaching I'd seen a lot of dying. We had a patient in the hospice. She was a memorable woman She had been a member of the French She'd married a British airman; She'd never lost her French accent. She had a cloud of glorious She had piercing brown eyes, the kind of gaze that you feel She was self-contained. In fact, she was a little bit scary. (Laughter) One day she told the nurse that she was terrified of dying in agony. Because if she were to die in agony, And if she were to despair in God, as a French Roman Catholic, her belief so she would not be able to go to heaven, and heaven was the place she knew This was a profound existential distress. And my boss said, "Well, You should come. I was 26. Do you remember 26? It's that kind of age - the last age (Laughter) So I went along wondering because I thought I was quite That conversation changed my life. It changed my career. And it's brought me here. Sitting on her bed with me on a little and the nurse sitting on the chair, he said to her, "I'm concerned about what might happen as you're dying." And she said, "Yes." And he said, "I'm sorry to hear that, and I wondered whether it might help you as a person is dying." And I'm sitting thinking, "Well, you can't tell her that, (Laughter) because I've seen lots of dying And she said, "Yes, please." And he said, "Well, I'll describe and if it gets too much, you tell me. I promise I'll stop. The thing that's really interesting, it doesn't really matter what the illness The pattern of events is very similar. We see people becoming It's harder and harder for them In fact, they recharge their energy but by sleeping. And as time goes by, what we see is that people sleep more, And if they want to do they should take a snooze before it." She nodded, and she got hold of his hand. "As time goes by," he said, they're awake for shorter, and something interesting maybe it's medicine time we need to waken them. For a period, we can't waken them. They're not just asleep, And when they waken, It turns out that human beings don't And so at the very end of somebody's life, they're actually deeply unconscious. And when the brain is unconscious, the only part of it that's still working is the part that's working By now, she is sitting right up in bed. She's got hold of one of his hands She's nodding at everything he says. And in the meanwhile, horrified that he seems to be describing and that feels to me But she is mesmerized. "By the time the brain he's saying to her now, "the only bit that's still working And so breathing cycles reflex, automatic breathing, becoming shallower and shallower and then going back Cycles of fast breathing maybe with pauses, and then back The person can't feel their throat. They don't notice if they breathe out Families might think or uncomfortable; we'll always check, but it's part Saliva or mouth-cleaning fluid It won't make them cough or swallow. They just lie there in the back of their throat. It's not in the way; air is moving and it bubbles through But families can mistake that so one of the things if your nieces and nephews are here, is we will make sure we explain She's stroking his hands. She's nodding. She is absolutely taking in "And then," he says, and I think, "Oh my (Laughter) "And then, during usually there'll be a breath out that just isn't followed There is nothing special It's so not like There's no rush of pain at the end. There's no feeling of fading away. Sometimes we who work in palliative care - and I've subsequently sometimes we will walk into a room where a family has been around and we'll realize the person and the family hasn't noticed yet because the Hollywood finale She got hold of both of his hands. She shook them in hers, and then she pulled his hands And then she closed her eyes. I just watched her relax, and in her own inimitable and aloof way, she told us that (Laughter) And my boss said to me, (Laughter) And I went to the kitchen and think about what just happened. Two huge ideas exploding One is: How have I never noticed that? That pattern that he has just explained, but I was the most junior doctor. It was my job to stop So I was so busy worrying about and that person's pulse I didn't stand back and see We can describe the process and it's as much a process It has stages. We can recognize them. We can work out where we are in it. But even more fascinating was that realization that we can describe ordinary dying and it shines the light of understanding and information into that dark place where all their fears I've gone on in my career in palliative thousands of times, countless times. I always offer to stop. I've never been stopped. But what happens at the end "Well, that isn't what I was expecting," followed almost, almost immediately by, "Can you tell my family that? Can you tell That's not what we were expecting." And I think we can do that. So losing the wisdom really matters. And we can't leave it or even medical people to reclaim This is a massive social And I invite everybody The reason my grandmother was that she'd seen it who described to her as the process so that she would understand And it requires all of us who are mortals, all of us who love other mortals Death is not a medical event. It's a deeply personal event. And we can understand it. We can describe it. We can console each other. We can accompany each other. We can reclaim dying. Thank you. (Applause)