In today's chess video, we'll look at games. We have games from Magnus, Mikhail Tal. There is a lot to learn here so fasten your But before starting off, I would like to thank Alright, let's start with this game first. It is Ftacnik vs Cvitan. The game is setup for an exciting finish. White is pushing these pawns &amp; looking to On the other hand, black is preparing an attack He has got his queen to h4 &amp; now he is threatening So white brings back his bishop to prevent And here, Cvitan plays an absolutely crazy It's a bishop sacrifice, and you might think But then, after queen takes back, black is pawn. Therefore, white has to sacrifice his rook. He ends up an exchange down and the game becomes So that's the reason why in this position, Instead, he simply picked up this pawn, getting What next? Well, here black comes up with an absolutely I can bet a million dollars, you would have Let's go! First, we have a bishop sacrifice. King takes, and guess what, then we have a The king takes again. And now the knight jumps into action with The king has to go back, and then the other This king is left dancing to their tunes, And finally, pawn to g2 finishes off in style, Alright, moving onto Game number 2. This is Hartlaub versus Fleischer. We're just out of the opening &amp; here black It looks all dull &amp; boring at the moment, why he goes for the stunning, knight f6 check Black cannot just move away because then there will be exposed. Therefore, black takes the knight. And now comes another sacrifice, this time Taking the bishop is almost obvious. But surprisingly, stockfish suggests king rook can come this side, and the king can But anyway, that didn't happen, so black And now white sacrifices another piece - knight What on earth is happening! Black takes this as well. But look, now the king is slightly exposed to jump in with queen h5 check. King has to move and white hits him again. He has to move back to the H file, and now white? Yes, it's rook f3 and that's when black He offers resignation because rook h3 is coming Now the next game I'm going to show you Now here, white first doubles up his rooks And after that, he exchanges his bishop for If you look at it now, white can think of But the problem is that - right now, there if he tries it, black can easily prevent the So, what does white do? Well, he follows a very basic principle - attack In this position, his queen is under attack black, 'Come take my queen'. You capture my sweety &amp; I will mate you. And if you don't take me, I'll take you. So naturally, black keeps the defense of this But white just follows him. Come, take me now. Again, black has no option so he goes back But now white comes even closer - Right Black again runs away. This time he threatens with the pawn. Black takes that. And now, he threatens the queen with the rook. He can't take anyway because ultimately, So, the queen again runs back. White continues to have fun &amp; comes with queen This time black has no safe squares for the So, he just gives up &amp; offers a resignation. What a fun game! Alright, let's move on. Now here, it is white to move, he is ready But can you think of an immediate winning You can pause the video here if you want to Okay, now as you can see, the white queen diagonal. But at the moment, there is no clear way to Maybe if he can get another piece into the This dark-squared bishop seems the ideal candidate. And that's how white comes up with a brilliant First, he plays b4, not only threatening to for the bishop. Now after the queen runs back, it doesn't has this absolutely mind-blowing - queen f6 And after the king takes, believe it or not, There's just no way to defend it. I mean it's ridiculous - have you ever a bishop! That's insane. Anyway, in this position, even if he does white can still play bishop b2. And again, there is no way to stop this checkmate. And finally, here even if the king moves to So, there's no way for black to escape. Okay then, talking of sacrifices, how can So, here's a Tal special where he's playing And as expected, he goes for a bishop sacrifice. King takes, then he gives a check with the And obviously black goes back to his shelter. But now what? Is there anything else that Tal can do? If you're thinking of queen h5, then black and then he can run this way. So, queen h5 doesn't work. What else? Can you bring this knight into the game? Well, that's what Tal did. He played the absolutely magical move, knight Black can't take because then his queen And he has to move it, because if he doesn't Therefore, he decides to go with queen g5. And now can you spot the winning move that Yes, it is queen h5, threatening a checkmate Black is busted here. Look, if he goes for a queen exchange, then Hence, knight e7 check. King h7 or h8, doesn't matter. And finally, rook takes queen and that's In this position, even defending with the Also, if he tries queen h6, he loses the queen And therefore, black resigns in this position. After this crazy Mikhail Tal game, let's Yuri Gutop and Alexander Roshal. Look here, white has just attacked black's As black, what would you play here? Well, the dark squared bishop is covering has control over this diagonal. This bishop is also undefended so, one of your mind is queen b6, saving the queen and But, that's not what was played. What black played here was mind boggling. Instead of getting out of the way, he got queen d5. So, basically what he's telling white is after I take back, there is absolutely no Keep in mind, white can't move this pawn Therefore, white surrenders &amp; he resigned Talking about brilliant finishes, how can This is one of the most famous games ever It is the last game of the 2016 World Chess Magnus Carlsen is playing with the white pieces The next move here won Magnus the World Championship. So, what did he play? Can you find it? Well, if you look at the immediate threats, threatening a number of checkmates. But Magnus doesn't care one bit &amp; comes h6 check, a beautiful queen sacrifice. The idea is to empower both these rooks to For example, if king takes queen - the h8 a checkmate like this. And if pawn takes queen, then black weakens And so, rook f7 is a checkmate. What a magnificent end to the World Championship Alright so its puzzle time. But before moving on, I would like to thank Brilliant is a remarkable platform to learn fun, interactive way. Whether it's your Everyday Math problems, or Quantum computing, Brilliant has got you There are thousands of interesting lessons new, exciting updates every month. As a chess lover, I always look for ways to And that's where Brilliant has been of tremendous I spend 15 minutes every night practicing And I think it's very useful for anyone Another course that got me hooked, is Cryptocurrency. It starts with some really basic examples, concepts. So, guys, if you like to learn on-the-go, Just click the link in the description to And the first 200 of you get 20% off on Brilliant's So do check it out. Alright, so its puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn, and Do share your answers in the comments section Guys, don't forget to like and subscribe,