- [Jared] You might expect would tip over on its It's called the Gyro-X and It does this through In this video let's take a look under the hood to see how it works. (electronic whirring) (blasting) The Gyro-X was developed It was a prototype that was still years away from completion. Compared to the other cars more aerodynamic, and The car still needed many the company went out of business before all the problems could be solved. For many decades this car Fast-forward to the year 2011 and the Lane Motor Museum purchased the car to restore (light jazz music) The engine is in the back here The front of the car is This is the gyroscope, which To understand how this works, let's first look at a toy gyroscope. If you've never played then it can seem really strange at first. Once the disc in the center is spinning you can do things like balance or on the tip of a pencil. The gyroscope maintains its orientation. As the spinning disc slows down, it will start to wobble until it finally loses balance and falls down. More sophisticated gyroscopes so that no matter which the spinning disc can maintain This is extremely useful with including airplanes, so that they always know which But there are some a gyroscope that's not very intuitive. Let's say our gyroscope is spinning, and we try to rotate the the resulted force is actually This phenomenon is referred This is best demonstrated Here's a chair that can spin freely. Now we have a person sitting in the chair holding a spinning gyroscope. In this case it's a bike tire, but this experiment will work with just about any rotating object. If the person turns the gyroscope they will start to spin That is, by applying the resulted force spins the chair. And if the gyroscope the chair will spin the other way too. I just want to mention that the bike tire is spinning clockwise, but if the direction was reversed, then the chair would spin the other way. Now let's come back to the Gyro-X car. Only two wheels here, so normally this car would The gyroscope, however, keeps us balanced. Let's take a closer look. Peel away a few layers and This is like the spinning This weighs about 230 pounds, and you'll notice that most of the weight is towards the outside. The hydraulic pumps will get it spinning at about 3,000 rotations per minute. The increased weight and speed, at least when compared means that the forces here to balance the entire weight of this car. The flywheel is placed There's an arm that's This is called the precessional ram. It's responsible for This will happen when a control system senses that the car is off balanced, or when the car is making a turn. Here's the gyro housing. And this is all put inside of a frame, which then goes under the So what happens here is that it creates a force strong It's the same effect that happens in the experiment with the swivel chair. It might be easier to visualize this if we turn the experiment on its side, and maybe ignore gravity. Turn the gyro and the person rotates. It's the same thing with the car. Turn the gyro and the car wants to rotate, or in this case balance out. What I'm gonna do here is show and how the gyroscope will adjust. When the car is at rest, the gyroscope slowly turns Now let's say something pushes Boom! Notice how quickly the to create a force strong The car also might get off balanced. This might happen in the case of the driver sitting off to one side. Now let's see the car in motion. Going in a straight line there just as we've seen before. When turning the car the gyroscope helps assist in making the turn. Notice how it turns in the same I think that's pretty cool. When we're done driving come down to stabilize the car, otherwise it would eventually tip over. The flywheel has enough to spin for up to two hours on its own. It's too bad this car never It would've been really neat to own one. But luckily if you ever find yourself in Nashville, Tennessee you can go visit the Lane Motor Museum to The museum specializes in unique with many unusual vintage cars that you won't see anywhere else. My name's Jared and I on how things work. Click the cards onscreen to Thanks for watching, and