Hello everyone, coming to Cuba Binh Duong's cooking channel today, I will go into the kitchen and make a classic but always favorite dessert, banh plag. This cake has a soft texture that melts in the mouth. And the sweet and fatty taste of milk and eggs mixed with the fragrant layer of caramel. With this recipe, the cake does not have the fishy smell of eggs, is soft and fragrant, and is nutritious. Any child will love it. You will definitely be surprised. However, with simplicity and success right from the first time, let's get started. We can see the detailed ingredients and images of specific ingredients to make this dish at the end of the video or refer to it. The kitchen tools I often use are below the description of the video to make rice cakes. I prepare the molds. There are many different types of molds. Here, I have a plastic mold with a capacity of 50 ml. There are also 70 or 100 ml molds. This plastic is heat-resistant and can be steamed in a pot and poured into a small mold for easy storage and convenience during use. In addition, I also use a ceramic cake mold like this one without a lid. Later, I cover it with paper. Silver hen, wash the mold with boiling water and drain so that your cake can be preserved longer. First, I will make the caramel, put 100g of sugar and 50ml of water in a pot, add a little lemon juice to avoid Boil the sugar with a medium blade. Do not stir. [music] [music] add 50 ml of water. When it completely dissolves and turns brown, turn off the stove and quickly pour the caramel into the cake frames to smooth out the bottom. kh [music] [music] what I use here is five large ground eggs, each measuring about 50 to 65g including the shell, so that the cake has a moderate softness, what I use here is four raw eggs. and one egg yolk [music] put the eggs in a bowl and beat them gently in one direction so as not to create too much foam, guys, skim off the foam, use a small pot and pour in 160g of condensed milk and 500g of milk. ml of unsweetened fresh milk Stir well until the milk dissolves. Turn on the stove and cook until the milk mixture gradually warms. Test the milk temperature by dropping it on your hand. If it feels warm, you should not cook the milk too hot. will lose the aroma as well as the fat of the milk and will cause the eggs to cook. Then gently pour the just-cooked milk into the eggs. I pour the yeast along the bowl like this. Then I add a teaspoon of starch. Vanilla makes the cake more fragrant. Boiling the warm milk will help dispel the fishy smell of the eggs, making the cake much softer and more fragrant . After dissolving the mixture, filter it through a whisk and put it into a saucepan like that. This makes the mixture smoother so I put it in the C jar so I can pour it easier when pouring the cake into that mold [music] now I pour the custard mixture into the cake molds with caramel forehead [music] music] you pour slowly along the sides of the mold [music] then gently close the lid to avoid water dripping into the mold without a lid later I'll cover it with foil [music] [music] Now I put the cake in the steamer. You can plant it in many layers like this . Put the pot of water on the stove to boil, then lower the smallest blade to let the water boil gently. Toothpick like this is okay. Steam for about 30 minutes. 30 to 40 minutes or you can bake the cake in the oven, preheat the oven to 100 C, place the mold in a tray of hot water and bake in a water bath for about 30 to 40 minutes. Check the cake is done by inserting a toothpick into the cake. If the toothpick comes out When you're done, the cake is done. Let the cake cool completely, then put it in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours before enjoying. [music] When enjoying, slide the tip of the thin skin over the edge of the mold and turn the mold upside down onto a plate. When finished, FL Lang has a very eye-catching appearance on top of a layer of smooth, glossy brown caramel. Beautifully shaped wings spread evenly on the surface of the cake, creating a beautiful and sweet layer . This cake is lightly brushed down to cover the entire cake, increasing its appeal. It's best enjoyed when adding crushed ice, a little fatty coconut milk and a little fragrant black coffee. The outside of the plantain is light yellow in color. smooth and evenly colored. When you cut into it, you will see that the plantain cake has a smooth texture without any cracks or small holes, indicating that the cake has been steamed or baked. If done correctly, you will feel the softness melting right in your mouth, making everyone in the family love it. Wishing you success and making delicious rolls for your family to enjoy. Thank you for watching the video. If you like it. The way I share, remember to send it to your friends. Watch, click like and subscribe to the channel to see more of my new dishes. If you find the video really useful, you can give the crew a cup of coffee with the heart-shaped supert button. Right below the video you can also visit the website kabin dung.com to see the recipes in article form Goodbye and see you again in the next video I [music]