&gt;&gt; Male Presenter: Welcome everybody on behalf talk. Today's guest David Graeber, his new book Please welcome David Graeber. [applause] &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Thank you, thanks so much I guess I wanted to talk a little bit about It's an odd book, in a way, because it starts and political problem. Just what is this hold that the idea of debt itself comes to be thought of as a matter I guess I was first really confronted with this book when I was, for some reason or another, and won't go into how I got there, but it The priest was a very nice man named Father there but he had this very annoying way of people and say, &quot;Hello I'd like you to meet He's an anarchist,&quot; [chuckles] which kind [laughter] possibilities a lot. But after a while he introduced me to this with, activist lawyer who's involved in a that. So I chatted with her and she was talking and I was talking about campaigns that I'd Justice Movement for many years, about the effects on various parts of the world. I had spent two years in Madagascar and Madagascar adjustment over the years with various confusing ironically quite good like the state basically of the countryside because they figure they anyway and people sort of managing their own cool. But they also did things like withdraw support being IMF would set the terms for debt rescheduling In this case, there was a program that had in the highlands which had been very successful, couldn't afford to keep it up anymore when And as a result -- [pause] I believe, 15,000 people died, 10 or 15 depending back, everyone had lost their immunity. At least 5,000 of those were children and A lot of people were naturally quite devastated And I was telling this story and she was very what were, as an activist what were you proposing And I said, &quot;Well we were involved in the 2000,' I said the debt of the global south Her reaction was -- [pause] somewhat shocked and mortified. She was like, &quot;Well, they borrowed the money, There was something about the way it was just first reaction when you say this you say, And I thought this was a friend. Okay, wait, which one do I do? There's like 12 different responses you can Do I say, &quot;Well they didn't really borrow bank account.&quot; Do you say, &quot;Well, actually, they paid the through the miracle of compounded interest; There's a million different responses. Actually, the response I think I came up with, was the economical one which is if profits supposed to be taking a risk. So I mean the whole point of a financial system and if you have a system like the IMF imposed get paid back no matter what you do, there's loans. But what really struck me was that sort of debts.&quot; I mean, I thought, &quot;Well, this is a very nice 7,000 dead babies how, what other circumstance Probably none. So what is it about the idea of debt that you'd almost never - [pause] imagine defending otherwise? And it set me off and I started thinking about debt, where does it come from, how long have has it had this moral power? And I quickly, when I started doing the initial things. One of them was that no one has ever written because really there aren't that many things Think about it, people have written histories different types of fish. There's a French historian who wrote a history [laughter] human waste disposal over the years. [laughs] Pretty much anything you can think of that. How is it that no one's ever written a history And people have written lots of histories invariably turn out when you look at it to when you consider that most transactions over And you can find histories of credit but it's So here's this thing which pervades every Modern nations run on deficit financing; consumer are all about debt. Yet no one's quite sure what it is and no So I started to work and one of the first basic common sense reigning assumptions about The other thing I found out is that this moral of commonsensical but of course you have to really no that doesn't make sense. That conversation has been happening for about Throughout the history of debt, conversations It seems that there's almost no time and place treating the payment of debts as simple morality of debts. [pause] But at the same time, then concluding there's to imagine some other way to think of it but [pause] I could multiply examples endlessly but one Republic. Plato's Republic begins, &quot;What is justice?&quot; It's the founding work of Western political And from wealthy arms manufacturer, Kefalos, He says, &quot;That's simple just pay your debts Socrates blows that one out of the water right guy lends me his sword and then he goes violently Like, do I give it back? Of course not and probably I'll make up some So they start with that and so right well it metaphorically. And the rest of the book is basically the But that -- [pause] it's debt right and no actually it's not. [laughter] [chuckles] That shows up over and over and In a way all the world religions start that You have the Brahmans, sort of first grade Veda, they're discussing debt and debt and and sin are really the same word in the Sanskrit. So they start with this idea of cosmic debt: gods. So we owe our lives to the gods, we pay interest rituals and then gradually we pay the principal So they pose this as this sort of, human existence And when they, but as soon as they start extending what they mean because they say, &quot;Well you gods and to the cosmos but you have an existential How do you pay them back? You become a parent. You owe a debt to the sages who created wisdom How do you pay that back? You become a sage; you learn things. You owe a debt to humanity as a whole for How do you pay back that, you're hospitable But in every case what you're doing is you even is a debt, you're not paying it back somebody lends you money and you give the paying it back. But what you are doing is you owe a debt to so your annihilating the difference. You owe a debt to the sages you become a sage; [pause] Could that apply to the cosmos? Well, yes, according to most Hindu scripture are the cosmos. And if you think about it the idea that you again and again, debt to nature, debt to society, yourself, is kind of absurd because a debt And a business transaction is by definition entities; they make a deal. Now how would you enter into a business transaction is or has ever been including yourself? You kinda make a deal with them. Well, it's absurd. The only way to actually sort of undo the rituals if you're doing them right is that So there's no basis to say there's a debt So again it's the same thing: you start morality say it in such a way that once you figure saying, &quot;No, actually it's not; debt is absurd.&quot; Same thing happens in the Bible. In Aramaic - [pause] the word for debt and sin is also the same Actually the Lord's Prayer which we always which is, &quot;Forgive us our trespasses just sort of translated into this odd private property But the original Aramaic and the original &quot;Forgive us our debts just as we forgive those But, of course, there's kind of a message those who owe us money generally speaking. So in a way it's a way of saying like you anything, but, in fact, grace will come and But so what is sacred isn't actually paying a tradition going back to ancient Mesopotamia which is adopted from that where periodically And that is a divine act. So what's divine is not paying debts, what's So over and over you have that same situation morality and debt are the same and they, immediately, cast around for some other basis on which a great deal of difficulty in doing so. It's even more complicated because when you [pause] there's a question of who is the sinner. This crops up over and over again, too, just The person who borrows the money has probably paid it right away; the person who lent is In fact one thing that happens over and over find that borrowing money or -- [pause] they frame morality as the obligation of the So obligation and debt are considered the as paying your debts. On the other hand in almost every one of those evil. Well, it's kinda hard to square those. And sometimes in the same text they'll just to figure out who's the bad guy. There's a great Buddhist story from medieval brings it home some clearly, it's kind of There is a Buddhist monk telling this story in my day, which is maybe like 700 A.D. There's some woman who's wife of the governor people and is always chasing them down and depredation. And she dies and after three days of saying the coffin opens and she jumps out but she's of lingers for a few days and the family panics they'd extracted from people hoping she'll will be over, which eventually she does. But the monk is reflecting on this and he that if you owe somebody money and you don't in mortal danger you could be reborn as an It's what happens to debtors a lot. But he says, &quot;I guess, well, if somebody owes hard time then you could get reborn an ox And that must be what was about to happen who's ox she was gonna be born in so she kind I thought about this and I thought, well, you're not gonna be shakin' somebody down But if they didn't pay then they're in danger So, like, who's gonna get, you can't both [chuckles] Somebody's gotta be worse so who There's some sort of Karmic balance, its touch ox. And I think that [chuckles] really brings one party is in moral peril definitely, the And when you imagine all human relations as [pause] There's a terrible ambivalence there for about Yet sometimes people do it in a positive way. I should point out that one of the points are not all exchange, there are many different one another and exchange is just one. But when you have exchange, exchange is a they, based on reciprocity, they should actually spot, maybe over time. If the transaction is not complete, there's once again and they walk away. But the curious thing about that is it means [pause] if you're working on the level of exchange, another when the exchange is incomplete in because they haven't paid back what they owe, It implies that sociality itself, human relations wrong. If you have deeply commercial philosophies Other places debt becomes good, it becomes It's very, very common in a lot of places brings us home about these people called the named Laura Bohannan who wrote up of her experiences So she shows up, gets a house, doesn't really People immediately start appearing with gifts somebody'll bring some fish, some grain, potatoes, she's an anthropologist, she gets out her her living room gradually filling up with And eventually someone takes pity on her and Those are gifts but you have to give people Figure out what they're worth, but the key exact same value of what they just gave you. So that okra's worth three shillings. Give them something worth two shillings or Never give them something worth three shillings want to have anything more to do with you.'&quot; So people have to be in each others' debt have an excuse to like, &quot;Oh, by the way, I So everybody has an excuse to see each other. So in a way, sociality is dead, everybody else. And if you look at the way communities work money very often that's what's like being Everybody's a little bit in debt to everybody Medieval England, I think somebody calculated English village, and this is true through Partly there just isn't a lot of money floating with neighbors. As we'll see actual physical money is associated don't wanna hang out with, criminals. People, nice people operate on credit and So everybody's doing these credit transactions &quot;Oh, I owe him five shillings, he owes him have what they call communal reckoning. So, everybody sits down in a big circle and he owes him seven shillings, he owes him, that one out.&quot; And they just do a bunch of loops and they out there's about three shillings left over owed, and then somebody gives somebody a pig [laughter] some cheese [chuckles] whatever it might be and start. And that's community, community means everybody what they owe and eventually they all settle Now, so in that sense, debt isn't a terrible But there's always that shadow, like sin, [pause] And there's that terrible ambivalence, that one might be. Where does that come from? And -- [pause] when I began explaining this one of the first itself. Because, we have to say, okay, what is a debt? A debt is essentially a promise which you because you can quantify it it's impersonal, So if I promise you that I will meet you at that to someone else normally speaking, I But a promise which is quantifiable, &quot;I promise you actually can turn over to someone else money actually is is a transferable promise [pause] One of the great questions is how that comes or quantify them precisely. And we've had a story about why this happens, textbook actually invented by Adam Smith in time you see someone really making the argument [coughs] And it continues to be the story that everybody or another, that becomes common sense, it's, say, that I have a kind of a pet peeve in pet peeve on the part of anthropologists, ago -- [pause] almost immediately, we started going out in who do it and we couldn't. It's not true. [laughs] But they never changed the textbooks. We just can't get them to come up with a different But alright here's the story, you've all heard Once upon a time people lived in villages Say I wanted somebody's cow; well, I said, give you 30 chickens for that cow.&quot; And the guy's like, &quot;Well, I don't know, 30's So you come to some sort of arrangement, swap, But the problem is maybe the guy doesn't want he wants right now. What happens? Well, you can't make a deal, right? So the only way out of this problem, as it on something that everybody usually wants, it's kind of handy and it's pretty. And there's a virtuous circle the moment you needs it all the time, it turns into money. So barter's inconvenient, you get money, government through uniform weights and quality, although the currency because governments are bad in Gradually, you invent credit systems and it's securitized derivatives of whatnot are just logically. Alright, so that's the story. As I say there's one big problem we've been and we have never found a single community of &quot;I'll give you 40 chickens for that cow.&quot; They don't exist. And Adam Smith himself had no way to know and they keep on telling this story. I mean if you look at contemporary economic primitive people do this,&quot; and now that they stop so instead they say, &quot;Well imagine you How would you get breakfast? Well you'd have to barter wouldn't you?&quot; And they tell this story as a kind of parable There's an obvious reason, if you think about why it wouldn't happen, which is you're taking who are neighbors and you are assuming that economists like to call the spot trade. &quot;Here, I'm gonna give you this, you're gonna But, of course, why would they do that right? I mean, they're neighbors. If the guy doesn't want my chickens he knows I'm his neighbor, in fact, it's rather nice for all sorts of things. So even if you take this imaginary scenario one wants a cow, what would really happen? Well, in fact in many human societies it is possession it's almost impossible not to give This is another one of those things which so that you really can't break out of it. I mean there's a great story I always tell named Te Ringa who is a sort of a notorious He rarely did much fishing himself, everybody he would sort of walk up and down the beach and check out their catch and say, &quot;Oh looky Or, &quot;Wow that's a beautiful fish,&quot; and they here's a squid.&quot; So [chuckles] they just have to give it to After about two years of this people got fed him. [chuckles] [laughter] It was actually easier to just bash the guy's you the fish.&quot; So, such is the moral power of some customs. At any rate, so here you have so if you praise she grew up it was the same thing somebody just have to say, &quot;Take it.&quot; There's only one way out actually which is [laughs] [laughter] At any rate, so alright here you have this that is one magnificent cow, that's a really So the guy there's only one thing he can do take the cow it's a really stupid cow but No, no don't even think about giving anything we love each other just take the cow.&quot; Now, he owes you one. [chuckles] [laughter] And everybody knows that, nobody'll say it. But what does he owe? He owes you something roughly like a cow. And that's what you get in communities like of types of things. So a cow, a canoe, a very nice necklace are for the other. Or it's not necessarily bad because you could show up because you owe him one and he could you have." Or he could say, "You know, my son is deeply It could be a lot of things, doesn't necessarily something". So, but you have this sort of quantified rank And there's all sorts of ways you can head You can play games you could like say, &quot;Oh, got a whole bunch of yams, I'll give them I'll be off the hook,&quot; and he'll be like, [chuckles] [laughter] But so he might mock you as a cheapskate which But here's the thing, he's very unlikely to how cheap he thinks you were, right? And that's the problem: how do you get from equals one cow but not three, how many chickens In the barter story there's a mechanism but is what you'd actually have and what you actually does that turn into something where you can The answer to that seems to be when somebody's Now when people are being nice to each other it will happen that people, violence ensues. Say I am mocking someone for giving me these somebody's ear gets cut off. Well then there's numbers. Very often it is the case that even in places do have incredibly elaborate series of fines a finger it's worth this much, if you lose an eye, if you have a gash like this large chickens or heifers or silver plates or whatever What they call the Barbarian Law Code, seemed wrote up a schedule of fines like this and The early Welsh and Irish ones are especially markets, you couldn't buy or sell things, But they did have prices on everything. In fact, they specified the exact value of a person's house, ranging from the silverware Why? Because you will end up in a situation often this means war, swords are pulled, people my brothers, you insulted my mother, whatever You need to pay penalties and you don't have Well, then you actually need to figure out So in those circumstances and in legal situations, or outbreak of violence, in fact people do the first circumstance where you have something That association then of money and violence about why debt, particular tends to take on One way I like to put it is that if you are [pause] of violent inequality. Probably the more effective technique ever moral but to make it seems like victim is debt. Mafiosi understand this perfectly well, right? But sort of heads of conquering armies, you you guys,&quot; and it's actually important to from Benjamin Franklin, &quot;There's nothing certain That's not actually true, it's only death. In many societies they did ancient Sumer communities on conquered populations. The same was true in Athens, in fact, they gave you money, you were paid to vote, just Rome had bread and circuses. So citizens didn't actually have to pay taxes, conquered. But the general excuse was debt, &quot;You owe Why do you owe me your lives because I coulda [pause] of course, I expect payment for this, compensation. I'm a nice guy; I'm gonna let you off the we can negotiate something but I do expect Voila, you've turned a relationship of violent are running around feeling inadequate all and you get to be the magnanimous nice guy. It happens over and over again in world history The problem is it tends to blow up in your there's that little worm in the bud which the language of the business deal which implies some level if you owe a debt to someone, there's to live up to their end of the contract. [pause] Now if you think about it there's a real explosive in fact, the vast majority of rebellions, that you see are not about the kind of thing They're not about slavery, I mean, slave revolts about caste systems, they're not about serfdom, They're always about debt. Moses Finley, the great classicist once said program throughout antiquity: just cancel order. When peasants, like, take over a town the records and burn them. After that they go after the land registers And this remains true throughout history. I mean, I was actually going through just and others of the founding fathers, their they were totally against; those guys hated And John Adams has this quote saying, &quot;Well If we had majority vote then we'd have two people without property, you know what's gonna The moment we allow everybody to vote first the debts, after that they'll redistribute [laughter] It's just common sense. So this is the program and why debt, why does Because it implies that you're equal. So if you say you are inferior, you're a peasant, gonna make people very happy but you can live But if you say, &quot;Well, you're supposed to You are morally inadequate.&quot; Well, it's kind of hard not to take that and why are you saying I messed up? I mean who owes what to who here really?&quot; And that is, of course, what people have said that almost invariably the response is who But once you do that, you're using the language You are saying that debt is morality, you're food. In terms of any reasonably morality, I'm the owing you.&quot; But suddenly the language of debt does become language. And I think that's what we're dealing with philosophical text which start by saying debt it's not. You're stuck with the language of debt as We don't know if this is 2000 D.C. in Mesopotamia arguing about politics what kind of phrases But we can be pretty certain that debt is And we can also be pretty certain that when that language of ordinary, everyday, political The thing is we don't have this anymore so equivalent of "it's the economy stupid" knew at the time that we just don't know anymore. So they're just throwing them around in this becomes this financial language and you talk and debt and sin and so forth and so on. So you're stuck with this language of debt Next, when I started looking the broad sweep at social movements and organization of society revealing ways of doing that is looking at Remember we have this paradigm: first there credit, and that's wrong. Not only it is wrong, it's actually backwards; Somehow or other, by the time the sort of you already have very elaborate credit systems. Actually the very first document we have which document by a King [inaudible ] I believe about his neighbors like occupying a stretch says, &quot;Well you know, they've been occupying If we calculate the rent we would have charged and then add a compounded interest rate, I 13 trillion shekels or whatever, [chuckles] pay. Obviously this means war. [chuckles] So you've already got compounded very, very first records that we have people It seems like almost all everyday transactions And the evidence for that is scales, because they didn't actually make scales accurate that would have been required to buy like in the marketplace. I mean, they had the technology to do so they So clearly, people weren't actually using up a tab. Alright, so you've got the Sumerian situation, he declared war on Legash or the rival place a debt cancellation - [pause] for everybody in the kingdom because it seems systems, money is basically in a set of IOU's, dealing with large transactions rarely actually The problem is in bad years people fall into [pause] because also the silver and grain are fixed actually is but that a pretty problem if you, go up. You're stuck, the farmers fall terribly into As a result people start taking away their members of their family. Debt peonage becomes a huge phenomena, they the city, society seems to be breaking down declare a clean slate. &quot;Alright, commercial debts can stay on the them out and start over again.&quot; This becomes a habit and become systematized depending on your reading. Debts are wiped out; everybody gets to go In fact the first recorded word for freedom &quot;amargi&quot; which literally means return to mother They declare debt cancellation, all the debt [pause] So, this virtual money systems comes first people have this tendency to write about virtual new world. Actually it's the original form of money. Coins come later. Barter, incidentally, tends to only really to using money but actually can't get their So you do have documented places where people cow,&quot; but in almost every case it's something falls apart where the money supply vanishes had money without money. Or in a prison, they turn cigarettes into [pause] Now, here's the interesting thing: coins are first in Lydian in the Eastern Mediterranean, terms it happens in the Ganges Plain in Northern Ganges Valley, I'm sorry. And -- [pause] in every case there were different physical cast, but - [pause] social situation seems to be the same which is actually invented to pay soldiers. And it makes perfect sense if you think about denominated with and you can use it for exchange But soldiers are exactly the sort of people of all from the perspective of a soldier, a credit arrangement because you can't actually off with it. On the other hand, gold and silver it's kind hundred dollar bills and nobody knows where So for soldiers that's very nice, you can small portions. So soldiers are likely to be carrying around And second of all, if you have elaborate credit well, a heavily armed guy who's just passing like to extend credit to if you can possibly of gold and silver, well, good. So cash markets insofar as they seem to first ever armies are parked or where they have rid of the little bits of gold and silver various other things that they like. [pause] Governments very quickly get in on the deal the Adam Smith account, if money just sort of barter, well it would be very hard to understand It might seem self evident but the moment and silver are just money well why not just And in fact governments would do that. I mean, ancient kings would normally grab you have all the gold and silver you want, Why would you then take the stuff, stamp your &quot;Okay, everybody in the kingdom has to give Think about it, it's kind of odd. But it makes perfect sense if you're trying Here you have this army of 100,000 people, how are you gonna get food to them? Under ancient conditions unless they're next to move stuff around, it's extremely difficult gonna eat everything within walking distance So what are you gonna do? Either you have to employ another 100,000 give them all tiny little pieces of metal in the kingdom has to give me one back.&quot; Voila you've just employed your entire population [laughter] And that's [chuckles] essentially what taxation I mean, colonial empires did this very, very I was, first thing the French did they said, expensive outfitting an army, you're going conquered you. We will issue paper money and you will have It was a way of creating a market. Somehow or another you're gonna have, they people the value of work. So money and taxes have been used throughout which is very interesting because we have and particularly war-making governments are for the last century or so has largely revolved Are we gonna go more on the government side, Those are the two sort of logical human possibilities. Ever since people like Herbert Spencer early an opposition between these things, historically Markets tend to be created by governments They sometimes take on a life of their own So to go back to these periods of history: coinage is invented around 600 B.C., Karl who coined the phrase, &quot;the Axial Age&quot; for all major schools, both of world philosophy a relatively short period of time. If you extend it from 600 B.C. to 600 A.D. it's exactly, it starts happening exactly uncanny. It's even in the same city, it's in Greece, first Greek city, where they're using coins Greek philosophy at exactly the same time. In China it happens, in India it happens, World religions arise largely as peace movements and people have talked about Axial Ages as slavery complex, actually they say military the chattel slavery which isn't a major institution history, for example, becomes really big in People take these standing armies, they pay Alexander's Army for example I think it took Where did they get the silver? Well the armies would besiege cities, take mines, and they made more metal to feed the So, it became this giant cycle. So, coins are actually found pretty much where In Rome it was in Italy, I mean, 90 percent along the border where the armies were stationed. Alright, so Axial Age you have this rise of there's this kind of mutual division of social really have impersonal markets, you have credit When you have impersonal markets based on &quot;Well, here's a space where, well just think them for yourself as possible.&quot; And it almost makes sense that if you do that a space we'll call it religion where we think and why it's better to give than to receive,&quot; up as an idea that never really existed before the same place as you get these impersonal So you get that but gradually the empires adopt the world religions, Confucianism in goes for Christianity at exactly the moment really work, empires dissolve. And you get the Middle Ages where once the gold and silver basically gets put back in credit systems and the world religions take credit systems. And so, for example, in the Middle East checks Already in Basra around 800 or 900 people the marketplace are by check. Check is actually an Arab word meaning check. [chuckles] [laughter] Yeah, I always like to point out to people as if this is somehow a new phenomena. Like, think about the terms &quot;cash&quot; and &quot;checks,&quot; meaning check and cash, well, has a double a Tamil for Chinese money. How did that happen? Alright, so you have this world where people &quot;Oh, in the Middle Ages, the Europe reverted Not true. In fact, if you look at the records they're money but they're using money that doesn't So, they're still using Roman currency and until Charlemagne and then they're using Carolingian But the Carolingian currency only actually exist at all. It's like pounds, shillings, and pence originally He never actually made pounds, he never got things and they actually called this imaginary So whatever the king was actually putting of ideal system which spanned Europe, everybody it on the basis of this money that didn't And they even had a phenomena they used to So a king could say, &quot;Alright, whatever we're pennies were a shilling; I'm gonna change If he--, so he could inflate the currency taxes he lowered it. So, he just rearranged whatever the currency things because again most transactions were it. I mean, the king said, &quot;Okay let's recall year.&quot; And commerce would not stop because everything Similarly in China they invent paper money taking credit instruments that people are That's what they do in China anytime there's they say, &quot;Okay, okay we'll do it for you.&quot; So it's all privatized in the Islamic world Actually they are very opposite principles [pause] in Islam, in particular, in this period, you And this is a fascinating thing I mean a lot but Adam Smith actually got most of his best Like the pin factory actually comes from al-Ghazali Okay. And it's made possible by what? By Sharia, because [chuckles] Sharia is civil and, as a result, you can have markets and thing that happens, instead of debt cancellation, places they, instead, just get rid of interest illegal. And so in Islam, since they don't have that, outside of the purview of the state and you Indonesia and it's all civil courts that take So it's the first time you really get an idea need governments. But since they had a real free market which it's all about competition, that's like a The assumption is that it's all really an Alright, so be this as it may you get that good, slavery largely disappears. I mean it's kind of rough in Western Europe backwater anyway. [chuckles] Alright, so what happens? Around 1450 it starts to go bad, then by 1492 in from America. As you go back to gold and silver currency, armies and giant empires come back in a big And that's the period that's ending now; [pause] 1971 is the date that most people set for sort of takes the dollar off the gold standard And very rapidly after that you see a whole Of course, we get credit cards which hardly over so that you had cashless transactions You have financialization of capital, most from making or selling anything, but largely You have credit's gonna save the world, microcredit all that stuff that blows up in 2008. And the question is why? Why it seems to have gone so horribly wrong? Because we have a series of terrible debt now the debt crisis that's hitting everybody [pause] have happened ever since. And the reason, I would say, is because in If we do look at this in broad historical you have a system of virtual money where people it's a promise, it's an IOU, it's a social such as in the Middle Ages, well, you have the thing doesn't go crazy. Usually that means, invariably that means, So you could have periodic debt cancellation, taking is banned entirely and instead you you can do. Usually it's some giant overarching, cosmological it's sacred kings or biblical prophets, or Be it as it may it has to be something big. Now we do set up giant, overarching institutions We set up the IMF to protect creditors against Basically, we did it backwards. S&amp;P all these other institutions like that ever default which is absurd. And sure enough we have endless series of In fact, I like to say I mean when I'm being that that sort of idea that people had in everybody falls so deeply into debt that they It's like nightmare scenario, this is what have all these laws. Well, you know if Aristotle were here today between being so indebted that you are selling 12 hours a day, or being so indebted that all day long, 12 hours a day, as something He would think this is it, this is the nightmare falling into it. But if you look at this in broad historical years is nothing; we're talking about 500 to wake up to this. We still have time to get it right. And I think the social movements that are are precisely recognizing that. If we're moving into a period of virtual money, other, it's just a set of IOU's and social be rearranged. Make a promise to someone, circumstances change, that with each other as we've discovered in made to disappear by the waving of various [chuckles] [laughter] So what people are saying is if democracy gets to weigh in on what sort of promises and when circumstances change what sort are moment that we're in right now. [pause] [applause] [pause] Ah, a question, yes. &gt;&gt;Male #1: So when this, I have to say it's era if you have currency with runaway debt what do you think would be a good way to look would be a good pre-rate of return on investment &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Risk free rate of return, &gt;&gt;Male #1: If we had a fair society -- &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #1: if you could define a fair society &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Okay, I'm now the dictator. &gt;&gt;Male #1: how, we used to have, you say we &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #1: so short of having a jubilee, debt if you have idle grain and it gets eaten by &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #1: but debt is funny because it accumulates &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Yeah, um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #1: diminishing over time. Would you argue for us having a negative free &gt;&gt;David Graeber: I would argue actually -- &gt;&gt;Male #2: David, could you please repeat &gt;&gt;David Graeber: The question, what's that? &gt;&gt;Male #3: [unintelligible] &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Oh I understand, yes. So the question is if I could dictate my own would I dictate? A negative one such as occurred through natural idea that money necessarily has to grow. That's an interesting question. I mean it's interesting that our entire sort has to do goes back to arguments about this Since usury was illegal the way they got around which was originally a late fee. So the idea is you're not paying interest, just charging people for failure to return grow because this is all between merchants So you can ask for five percent rate of return a five percent investment rate. And that five percent number has kind of stuck number that like any economy is expected it a problem. And it's interesting it is exactly the amount And there were usury laws until quite recent, which held it down to a fairly reasonable I mean, myself, I actually do think a Jubilee I would jump forward from this. I end the book by throwing that out and I'm rates of return. I'm gonna say like we just need to wipe the up with a new way of thinking about the system. So I think a Jubilee is useful as an idea a lot of people could really us debt forgiveness and everybody else didn't. But because it would allow us to reconceptualize isn't what we thought it was. So what kind of system we'd come up with in but I wanna leave that as open as possible rather than come up with a plan like that, event which will sort of allow us to start I've heard recently, I didn't know this, somebody is guess if Jeffrey Sachs' people, ran a model did a Jubilee. And they said that it would cause severe economic get if you don't have a Jubilee. [chuckles] [laughter] So either way we're screwed but you'd be a So it turns out that it might not be a bad I mean I think that we should start thinking of money entirely. Interest free systems would be possible. The reason why things like Islamic banking it. If you force people to do profit sharing rather it would work. [pause] &gt;&gt;Male #3: One, two, three. Is money [unintelligible] amount to the debt in America and how it's all over the globe &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Yeah it's really odd because &gt;&gt;Male #4: Could you repeat the question? &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Yeah, okay me repeat the amount of debt? I would say probably not but I mean unless like that. You do have these speculative crises that how many people owe things to each other and who's it all owed to? Everybody seems to be in debt, this is sort And I would say, no, and one reason why is the 70's that basically all social problems One theory I saw, which is kind of interesting, Collective, it's a group of Italian autonomist But they had this very interesting reading What they basically said is that after World Atlantic white working class and they said, give you free education, free health care benefits of various kinds.&quot; And social struggles between 1945 and 1975 deal. And there is a tie between productivity and So whenever, and the lines go up together, of wages. Since the 70's the deal is clearly off and crisis of inclusion that you can't actually changing the nature of the system. So first minorities, so you have the Civil left out of the deal want in, people in the movement. It reaches a point where it just sort of snaps ecological crisis and they say, &quot;Alright, No longer will wages be connected with productivity, political rights don't necessarily give you So the credit solves everything, everybody's the Third World, why you have 401k's and mortgages And you could say the same thing happened, More and more people want in on the deal and the point where people they're just doing that are beginning to run the system. And when it cracks it looks almost exactly financial crisis, you get the visions of ecological It's the same thing all over again except [chuckles] gonna come up with next. So, in that sense, yeah, you have this unprecedented on bubbles. And I'm speaking as someone who's working doing our studies for the G20 as part of like kind of, the activists kind of told us, &quot;Alright, their evil plan and tell us what their evil And so we figure it and I guess they're gonna we had various ideas for what would be a viable And they kept not doing it; they just fight In fact one of the reasons why the Global is, like, at least in 2000 we knew what their it. And now they don't seem to be able to come evil plan than they did. [chuckles] So we were sitting around and saying, &quot;Well, we can fight you.&quot; And they wouldn't so they were sort of stuck apart and they haven't quite come up with So I'm waitin'. [laughter] [pause] &gt;&gt;Male #4: So taking the other side of the anybody pay their debt at all? &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Why should anybody pay debt Well, I mean you could say the same question bankers, I mean, moral hazard works on both [pause] &gt;&gt;Male #4: Well, I mean, it's the same case. &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Yeah, I mean -- &gt;&gt;Male #4: I don't think that they should &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Hum. Yeah I know a lot of people think that but as a lot of people point out all this mortgage would have bailed out the banks in itself, not to the mortgage holders. And this is a pattern that you do see throughout totally different; depends on who it's between. When you have debt between two poor people brother, it's usually because they wanna give save face, say it's a loan. If he can pay you back, he will. Between equals, between people who know and broad moral feeling that you should come through And between the big players it's the same, I mean you see this all throughout history. Like, even the earliest Sumerian documents you're not gonna charge me interest because And when the big players are in trouble, debt What seems to be sacred or treated as if it debts between the people on top and the people on a completely different color. So, yeah, I suppose you could come up with treat debt as exact [ inaudible ] quantifiable But it seems that you're not going to convince forgive each other when they're in trouble. Instead it seems more reasonable to expect because that philosophy of debt as something is sacred, really only crops up in situations inequality. [pause] &gt;&gt;Male #5: How much of our sense of debt is and how much of it is regulatory? &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Okay, so the question is and how much of it is from society and how By regulatory you mean just sort of imposed &gt;&gt;Male #5: In order to make everything work &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Right, I see. Well I mean in terms of biological, my argument like they don't exist, clearly they do. I think it's pretty naive when people say, society. No, we're not, we have all sorts of urges, Generally speaking in any situation we have different contradictory things. So freedom is deciding which one to act on. In the book, I sort of map out three different of giving and taking of things, one of which ability to each according to their needs; I call hierarchy. Exchange is based on principles of reciprocity, It's like if you do something you're expected And all of these things are operative at any what you're doing is kind of a mix of these So biologically and even that kind of fundamental you're always gonna be able to think of things way. So you're always playing around with all these And in terms of regulation - [pause] well, what's interesting is when you try to that's when you fall back on language of debt You see this all the time dealing with feudal If you give somebody a gift you're expected In fact you need a special document, like, him sign a paper saying I don't have to do unequals the precedent, you have to do it However, then when they wanna talk about what say, &quot;Well it's all reciprocity, lords fight and peasants make food for everyone and it's It's a completely, it has nothing to do with Somebody might call this a sort of like overall people are saying, nobody actually says, &quot;Well, much this year so I'm gonna give you less down or you've been praying more so we're It's nothing to do with the way people actually of debt and reciprocity as a language to justify different principles. [pause] Uh, yes. &gt;&gt;Male #6: I live in San Francisco and there's their houses foreclosed or are in the process &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #6: as a [unintelligible] houses [unintelligible] &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Um-hum. &gt;&gt;Male #6: and in Northern California. Are there historical precedents or what would to relieve our debt instead of bankers? &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Well there's a huge history Peter Linebaugh has -- &gt;&gt;Male #7: Could you repeat the question? &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Oh I'm sorry, the question here in California including San Francisco, by banks that have themselves been bailed been kicked out from their homes and what Are there historical precedents for that? The answer is yeah. As I say the vast majority of social movements debt. There have been debt strikes, there have been course electronically is now harder to do. In the Depression there was a systematic policy on farms all the farmers in the neighborhood somebody would bid one dollar [chuckles] and it back to the farmer again. So there is a [chuckles] huge amount of precedent it the same way twice. The problem with organizing debtors politically easier to organize people when you have a each other. But what we have now is most people who have know people in the same situation or people There's really no forum in which people can So one strategy that people have been using are doing a student loan project where they're we'll all stop paying simultaneously.&quot; But it has to be something like that because taking such a risk when you default or when You're taking such a risk that it's very difficult you don't know. [pause] So that's the question how you organize people Um -- &gt;&gt;Male presenter: commentator: Let's take do. &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Okay you can decide who then. [laughter] &gt;&gt;Female #1: Is there [unintelligible] how and those who are not such parents and children, &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Okay, the question is in their differences between how debt is handled like -- &gt;&gt;Female #1: Like the debt between those two &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Debts, oh, oh, how debt between. So you're talking, give me an example. &gt;&gt;Female #1: What children owe their parents &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Which I thought you meant &gt;&gt;Female #1: or before you could only work go outside of that [unintelligible]. &gt;&gt;David Graeber: Right so how do you deal between people within a household or where and outsiders? It's an interesting question because, in fact, about how we try to frame everything in terms that don't work that way at all. And the other point that I was making about of debt. 'Cause you'll often find people saying, &quot;Well, of childbirth and what they do.&quot; But in almost every case it's a metaphor, related to each other. So often when you see how people are actually to do with debt, you're not calculating equivalents But then when you want to think about it in figure out some way to say it's all about So I actually use this story about this famous him with a bill for everything he owed him He said, &quot;Okay, here's how much it cost to primary education.&quot; He had it all worked out and he gave him the the hell with you, I'm never going to speak But that's what it basically means because have no further relations. So the idea of actually paying a debt between you'd only do it if you really wanna have But nonetheless people like to frame it in One of the most fascinating concepts I discovered milk debt. This is a medieval Chinese Buddhist concept. What they did was they calculated what they you absorb from your mother [chuckles] in fundamental debt you owe to your mother and But then they would say, &quot;Alright, to pay in fact take 400,000 years of feeding her [laughs] I mean so it was a way of saying, So why are they calculating as a debt at all? It's again that same tension if you wanna the same thing, but as soon as you do you isn't it?&quot; So that tension like the need to pretend that it's actually not a debt at all. It's absurd to even think of a debt, why are again. And it's because commerce gives us this idea terms, that we really ought to, that we start we can't.&quot; [pause] &gt;&gt;Male Presenter: Let's thank David. [applause]