- On December 1st, 2022, the journal &quot;Nature&quot; about a holographic wormhole. It was purportedly created to probe the intersection of The story kicked off a frenzy - Nobody has seen the wormhole. Nobody has produced one. - Well, we'll quantum computer and into building the wormhole. - The wormhole becomes You really can go through. - Bull (beep). (magnets clicking) - This video is sponsored by Shopify. The problem was, of course, that no wormhole had been created. - It feeds on itself, right? When one story starts, then other media outlets grab hold of it and so it spreads very, very quickly. - What actually happened is that a super, a quantum computer is built and within this quantum computer, you can do some calculations. Calculations that can because all the most powerful at most do calculations that can easily be done on my iPhone. - You basically have something that represents the But the way the story was sold, of course, is that in doing this, they had created the wormhole. - They say so in the same &quot;Look, my children has built a rocket &quot;that goes to the moon.&quot; Say, &quot;Wow, what kind of child you have? &quot;Yeah, here it is.&quot; And I show you a little when there is a drawing of and say, &quot;Look!&quot; So what the quantum computer There's a little sketch of what in some hypothetical theory, Is this interesting? Yes, it is interesting because the fact that you can do these things a little bit, sort of begin working. So people get excited about and tell to the world, &quot;Oh, &quot;in a quantum computer,&quot; over overemphasizing the wormhole, which probably don't exist, which probably is wrong, and the utility of quantum computers, which is not yet there. So that's an example of bad communication, very bad communication. I was embarrassed, I was angry with my - To me, it looks like the source of this problem is bad incentives. Scientists need to secure and increasingly that depends on attracting public attention to their work. - It's just become part that it's expected that you will have some sort of media attention and to get that attention, and often it's not the that is the story, it's something else. - Universities seek to promote themselves to attract students and - And nowhere in the scientific method is, and you release a press release, but it's just become part of the norm now. - Press releases simplify and and journalists just want to get as many clicks on their The end result of this incentivized game of telephone can be oversimplified sensationalized headlines, Now, I myself have been guilty of over-hyping a science story. Back in 2014, I made a video So this is one of the hugest discoveries in science of all time. Researchers reportedly in the cosmic microwave Allegedly it was caused by just a fraction of a The result was considered of the quantum nature of gravity and a smoking gun for inflation theory. Experimenters even surprised Andre Lind, one of the founders of - Let's just hope that it is not a trick. I always leave with this feeling, what if I'm tricked? What if I believe in this - Unfortunately, further that it was likely just rather than primordial gravitational waves that created the polarization in the CMB. So I took down my video and to this day I am about breaking science news. Like any type of breaking news, that early reports will Just a few months ago, to the Archive Pre-print Server claiming to have discovered ambient pressure superconductor. This again triggered a - [Reporter] A monumental breakthrough, room temperature superconductor LK99. - One of the most important scientific breakthroughs of the 21st century. - If the discovery were real, - The room temperature of course, is such a it would revolutionize everything, right? Transmission of energy, The world would be different if it worked. - But even before attempts and its properties failed, there were clear signs In the only published versus temperature, the as you'd expect at the Instead, it continued to Plus the resistivity of 10 to the minus two ohm centimeters. On that scale, any ordinary conductor would appear to have zero resistivity. Copper's resistivity, for example, is on the order of 10 to the A video showed the material above a permanent magnet of the Meisner effect. But in that same video, the material also sticks to the magnet, something a superconductor would not do. And finally there is this plot, showing that over the scientists have found new materials with progressively higher But as of now, all the only super conduct at very high pressures. For an ambient pressure room we would need a jump of around 125 degrees Celsius. That's a lot and this brings up the point that it is the most unexpected that get the most attention, but it is also these very same results that are the most likely to be false. In social science, it's that later fail to be replicated, receive on average 153 more citations than studies that can be replicated. Similar buzz surrounds faulty research in the physical sciences. - The Italians, I'm Italian, came out announcing into that the neutrino was faster than light and then measured it and that was not fitting well and so the entire machine - When the truth is discovered, it rarely gets as much attention - The fallout where everybody was going, &quot;Oh, well this doesn't work &quot;and there's no way this material can do &quot;what they say it's doing.&quot; That sort of fizzles in the background, it doesn't get the same media attention. - There is the apt saying, &quot;A lie can travel around the world &quot;while the truth is still But that saying might need to be updated in the age of social an even greater advantage. Do you think it's a bigger - I must admit that I I think there's a feeling that you've got to change the world to be noticed by the media. - Over-hyping science a false sense of how science works. If that latest discovery I hear what else could be untrue? - People keep telling me and all this kind of stuff they hear in the media. Eventually people will say, &quot;Well, why are we funding these things &quot;if it's always just turmoil?&quot; - Making bold unsubstantiated claims also reduces trust in scientists. - So we are enlarging a little bit. The conversation here is not I think there are entire - Wait, entire fields of science that are- - Yes. - Yes. - But aren't really legit or just they're all hot air or... - Oh no, no, they're not hot air. - [Host] Fusion, fusion's big in the news. People think it's close, right? There's startups, there's people getting - Exactly, I don't know Again, it's not my field, but there was one particular announcement, what is it? One year ago or something. - [Host] I remember this announcement. - Scientists have produced that created more energy a breakthrough to tap into that powers the sun and the stars. - Simply put, this is one of the most impressive scientific (audience applauding) (audience applauding) - Which is bull (beep) again because it was in the nuclear energy, basically for which at the present, has no visible way of how to become industrial - [Host] Yeah, there's no way to scale. - There's no way to scale it up. - [Host] This is just lasers at appellate. - Just little thing and and then it's basically it explodes because it's a mini, and then you have more energy than the actual pressure energy that was needed to compress it. That's correct, but you excessive energy for doing that. That was sold as a big step problem of the world, but it's not. - Back in '87, fusion, already people were talking about it like it's around the corner. We just need 20 years more And we have exactly the same story today with the current experiments. - Something that is not overhyped is this video sponsor, Shopify. And I would know, because I've been personally using Shopify for eight years. You know something a lot of is that before I was a YouTuber, I worked as a science in Sydney. But I was always frustrated students had that bonds So I decided to make a better version of the traditional ball and One where the atoms snapped I came across these little ball magnets and in my first prototype I pushed them inside little styrofoam about plastics and injection and I brought my (magnets clicking) But one thing I had no clue about was how to run an online store and that's where Shopify came in. They had simple templates. So I set up the Snatoms Shopify allowed me to process payments, withhold appropriate state taxes and see everything that was happening with my store at a glance. Plus, it also integrates with lots of third party apps and sites. So, for example, I could offer of shipping and this (magnet clicking) I also got set up for Google shopping right from within the app and it was simple to create like if someone forgets The whole store runs with which is great because I'm So I think there is a reason for their online store because it offers it's easy to use and it's very affordable. I highly recommend Shopify to anyone who's thinking about starting a business and for a free trial of Shopify, go to shopify.com/veritasium. And now back to science hype. Science is interesting in into basically two categories. One is an established body of knowledge and the other is speculations, but we don't really have any And because there can be and only one truth, most of these speculations But the way certain topics it may be impossible to tell if they're part of the or just very fanciful speculation. - There are too many &quot;We have understood that the world's &quot;made by strings and string theory.&quot; It's not true, not at all. We have not understood that the world is described as string theory. We have a very interesting which is string theory, and some failures and that's interesting. If you want to tell about this research, do tell about this research, but don't tell people that it's what we have learned about the world. - One question I have is, how do we get past the Because it seems like the system is set up to reward over-hyping. It rewards the journalists It rewards the scientists, they may get the money or the attention. So I don't know, I'm kind of curious whether a solution is possible. - Yeah, I think there is one, and it's exactly what you're doing. By talking about the fact that there is a risk of overhyping. If I can go out and say, &quot;Oh, my quantum computer and nobody says anything, If we talk about the risk of over-hyping, if we talk about the theories, radical results, which are very, very tentative, as solid, then we sort of immunize - Science is not presented on the news like sport is presented on the news. At the end of the news, you where they will talk about the fact that somebody kicked a and it's not that particularly important. So you get the full rundown of lots of bits and But to get a science story, it has to be Earth It has to be a big story. What many scientists would of the fact that the entire That there are lots of things happening and we definitely know more but that's not the way that it - Well, ultimately, almost to sensationalize scientific findings. So I think it's important to remember that anytime you hear a surprising, unexpected results that have not been they are more likely than not to be wrong. But despite this, I remain is the best way to get at the truth. I mean, sure, in the short term, some may seek the spotlight by rushing the data analysis, overstating results or but in the long term, that is not going to The bold claims, mistakes and dead ends, they will fade into oblivion and only sound science and independently validated, that is what makes it into the (magnets clicking)