You know what a planet is, right? A big round thing that orbits a star. Not so fast. The surprisingly vicious debate over the planetary glimpse into what a scientific definition And perhaps the word planet is too vague to We love to classify things. Labels help us keep stuff organized in our In science, categorization provides a fast of a group just by knowing what group it Chemists group elements on the periodic table, that reflect outer-shell electron number. Biologists group organisms by similar physical genetic relationships. Astronomers are all about space taxonomy. We classify galaxies based on their shape, black holes based on how they feed and how they're oriented, stars based on their color and brightness, and has caused more tension and heartbreak than Because a change in that scheme demoted Pluto Today we're going to settle whether this the word "planet" at all. The definition of "planet" has changed If you were an ancient astronomer like say, the wandering stars. These included Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, - basically anything that moved relative to Note that they did NOT include the Earth. This definition of "planet" was the most based on our observations and understanding But understanding improves. In 1543 Nicolaus Copernicus published "On which cast the Sun, not the Earth, as the proper place among the planets. This picture was cleaned up by the observations models of Kepler and Newton. Newton's Laws of Gravity led to consistent The solar system finally made observational orbiting the sun in perfect mathematical harmony. But new discoveries were about to mess up See that's the thing about science. No so-called fact is ever perfectly safe. Everything is subject to revision if evidence That's the beauty of the scientific process. Keep this in mind when we get to Pluto. New wandering stars were discovered in the Uranus had been spotted many times throughout after William Herschel recorded its movement That same motion almost perfectly reflected &quot;Almost&quot;. Slight deviations in Uranus's orbit betrayed first in the mathematics and then with a telescope Between these two discoveries, four other At the beginning of the 1800s Vesta, Juno, the orbits of Mars and Jupiter and classified But astronomers kept finding more and more that a new group was needed in our taxonomy. So the class of asteroids came into being. You might argue that Ceres, Juno, Pallas, After all, Ceres is 20% the diameter of Mercury, But where do you draw the line? How many asteroids should we then classify Or do we drop Mercury, which is, after all, than Saturn's moon Titan. Our taxonomy had to evolve as our understanding planet was reserved for the now-familiar 8 of the word was still vague. This is where Pluto finally comes into the Even with the discovery of Neptune, the orbit in some calculations. And so began a feverish search for yet another The search for the so-called Planet X became turned astronomer. He built the Lowell In 1930, 14 years after Lowell's death, family's fortune, Planet X was finally discovered. Or so we thought. Clyde Tombaugh, a 22 year old Kansas farm series of photographic plates taken under director. Orbital calculations put the object beyond 6 degrees of one of Slipher's predictions Astronomer's were expecting a planet - and - so perhaps it's not surprising that Pluto That's not to say everyone agreed. The orbit of this new object was far more It also seemed too faint to possibly have By 1931, astronomers had figured out that account for Uranus's strange orbit. But because Pluto was the only such object classification as a planet. New astronomy textbooks included distant Pluto than 8 planets. Fast forward several decades. With the advent of giant telescopes and digital that muddied the definition of "planet". In the late 80s the first brown dwarf was These giant orbs of gas aren't massive enough a true star, but still seemed too massive And yet some brown dwarfs orbit other, more Our overly vague definition of "planet" Also through the 1990s more and more moving beyond Neptune's orbit. They were mostly much smaller than Pluto, but - what we now call the Kuiper belt - and that Pluto became to the Kuiper belt what Ceres The biggest fish in the pond. Big enough to cling to its title of planet. Or so we thought. Telescopes got bigger and our mapping of the early 2000s a number of objects in the Kuiper size to Pluto. Quaoar, Makemake, Orcus, Sedna, Eris, and Eris was the last straw. It's 28% more massive than Pluto, which But theoretical predictions suggested that There must be hundreds more objects and perhaps a couple of thousand. If we classed them all as planets, schoolchildren And so, despite the anger of schoolchildren that astronomers decided to act. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union, designations, and definitions, met to finally solar system. A number of definitions were debated. They eventually voted and agreed to the following. A planet must: One - be in its own orbit around the Sun, not around Two - Have sufficient mass to assume hydrostatic And Three - Have &quot;cleared the neighborhood&quot; around its While Pluto satisfies the first two, it doesn't Were it a proper planet, it would have collected or scattered all Kuiper belt objects in its orbit. "Planet" got redefined to something that Pluto In this same process the IAU created an entire which has its own orbit and is spherical-ish, Pluto, Eris, Ceres, Haumea, and Makemake were objects will no doubt follow. While this definition was meant to settle be grandfathered in as a planet. Even the current NASA Administrator, Jim Bridenstine, "it's the way I learned it." Well, political appointees declare lots of is true. Fortunately the actual scientific process Scientific definitions require careful thought, are subject to revision. Sure, we could add a fourth requirement to all of the above if changing things makes But because we are all curious and open-minded fun to think about WHY this reclassification Why all the sentimentality? The reclassification from planet to dwarf Look, Pluto - I'm afraid you haven't cleared We're going to need to reevaluate your role Don't think of this as a demotion - it's That conversation would make anyone cry. But let me assure you - the 13 sextillion have strong opinions about its own taxonomic several planetoids away. We perceive this reassignment as a demotion But with such powerful imaginations, can't As we've peered deeper into our universe, beautiful, and important worlds, some we now For example, the moons of Jupiter and Saturn only other homes for life within our solar And Pluto itself proved far more interesting We already knew about planets - but Pluto's belt, which is of fundamental importance to Pluto went from being the least of the planets And what about the term planet? Despite our attempts at improving the rigor some ambiguity. The inner, rocky planets are very different Should they receive different names? There's no single perfectly-correct way Taxonomy is, by nature, a somewhat arbitrary And the new IAU definition of a planet, while a pre-determined desire - to eject Pluto and A touch arbitrary perhaps, but the new definition The eight solar system bodies currently defined common - similarities in the way they formed categorize them under a single label. And like any aspect of the scientific process, Maybe at some point in the future, as we learn will change the definition of planet again. The language we use to describe the universe And anyway, the word "world" still applies one of the greatest dwarf planets in known OK, some announcements. First up, we're launching a Space Time discord the fundamental nature of the universe, 24/7. It's open to Patreon contributors of all levels. You guys know that we have a Patreon, right? Well, we'd love to have you join the conversation there. Discord will be a great place to get your cosmic questions answered by the that is to say, other spacetime viewers - and sometimes We're also starting a newsletter that's open when there's a new episode or about the news giving a talk somewhere. To get on that, follow the link in the description. And talking about Patreon - today who's sponsoring us at the big bang level. David, in honour of your invaluable help we're Dwarf planet David is a frigid, lifeless ball orbiting at the outer rim of the Kuiper belt. It'll be discovered in the late 2050s, at in any way. Except for the fact that it's yours, David. And that makes it special. So, last time we looked at the harsh realities Long-story-short - it's sort of possible, There were questions, comments, and lots of Kazeshi wants to do O'Neill cylinders or rotating Now, the argument is compelling: why would we want right after getting out of this one? That's a fair point. Because a rotating habitat or cylinder in space can but without an actual powerful gravitational These structures would be much, much smaller from radiation and asteroids than the entire We'd also need far less material than it would Also they're super-science-fictiony, which Kholdaimon and other would prefer to terraform After all, it's closer in mass to the Earth horribly acidic one. Now, the main issues with terraforming Venus a long time for any photosynthesizing life and 2) it has essentially no water, so we'd have to be bringing all of that in. Venus also has no geomagnetic field. The magnetic field that it does have comes from But presumedly, we'd need to massively alter and even reduce that atmosphere, if we want to terraform it, which would probably kill the field. On the other hand, covering venus with floating that's more akin to paraterraforming. For Mars I say, why build a sky if you can a sky if you can build a sky-city? Speaking of roofs, a few of you point out cities. A couple of meters of Martian rock above your and micrometeorites. Again, this isn't really terraforming, but and perhaps we could eventually build an underground world down there. Loren Husky has misgivings about my plan to capture and toss comets into the inner solar system in order to terraform Mars, suggesting that this could, in some way, backfire. Lol. Lol indeed! I can't imagine what could possibly go wrong. It's not like any of the previous life-obliterating comet by mindless robots.