Most people think about emotional intelligence with practice. And while this is partly true, there's a that most of us miss: about what you do less of, not more of. I work with many people who look like they They blame other people for their problems anxiety make progress don't actually lack the capacity for emotional In fact, I think most people already have Unfortunately, many people are held back from by a collection of bad habits that get in If you'd like to improve your emotional in your own life and work to eliminate them. I think you'll find that your natural emotional Criticizing others is often an unconscious own insecurities. We're all critical sometimes. And it's not necessarily a bad thing -- to around us is a vital skill. It helps us navigate the world and our relationships But too much criticism -- especially the lead to the opposite of objectivity: it can to ourselves. One of the reasons it's so easy to slip it makes us feel good: else is dumb, you're also implying that And that feels good. When you criticize someone else for being yourself that you're sophisticated. And that feels good. When you silently chuckle to yourself about you're telling yourself how refined your And that feels good. Helpful criticism is about making the world Unhelpful criticism is about making yourself While being critical might temporarily make you feel worse about yourself in the long-term. On the other hand, emotionally intelligent others is just a primitive defense mechanism. And that there are far better, more productive Without knowing it, people who are constantly to alleviate their own insecurities. Understand that criticism of others is a waste and energy that's not getting invested in Worrying about the future means living in of life. As human beings we crave order and certainty. And for good reason: Our ancestors who were uncertain probably survived longer than those We're biologically motivated to reduce uncertainty. But there's a big difference between taking being so terrified by it that we delude ourselves And that's what chronic worriers do. They're so afraid of uncertainty, and so themselves into thinking they can make the it constantly! Chronic worriers live under the illusion that planning always leads to greater levels of But neither of those are true: doesn't mean you're thinking about it And just because you're planning -- running -- doesn't mean you're any better equipped Often, you're just making yourself feel Worry gives you the illusion of certainty. But in the end, all it does is fragilize you. Emotionally intelligent people understand And they understand that it's better to live in denial about it. Because when you stop beating yourself down with chronic worry, you'd be surprised how life. When you stop insisting that the world act far easier to work with the world you've Ruminating on past mistakes is a misguided Just like we humans crave order and certainty, We're obsessed with the idea that, with or achieve anything. Of course, most people who get stuck ruminating actually believe that they can change the Instead, ruminating about the past gives them and temporary. When you've done something bad or made a and regret. Chronic ruminators develop the unconscious because it briefly gives them a feeling of And feeling in control helps distract from are when it comes to past mistakes. In reality, no amount of rumination or analysis Which means helplessness and powerlessness This is a hard fact of life that emotionally accept. If you want to move on with your life instead the past for what it is--including feeling You must give up the choice to endlessly revisit your real pain -- the pain of helplessness. When in doubt, take action in the present Do something useful, right now, now matter replay yet another scene from your past. Don't give up control over your future by Unrealistic expectations are a misguided attempt Just like ruminating is an attempt to control unrealistic expectations is usually a subtle Of course, most people with unrealistic expectations You probably see your expectations of other for people encourages them to grow and mature Maybe, but this is still a subtle form of You have an idea for what another person in your expectation is your way of trying to But what does it mean, exactly, to maintain Simply put, it means you spend time crafting should do. And when they inevitably fail to live up to to those expectations and feel frustrated And how do you respond to this frustration By creating even stronger and more elaborate and in control! Look, of course you care about the people And it pains you to see them hurting or struggling So, when you create a story in your mind about expectation) you feel a little better. The problem is, you can't actually control Not nearly as much as you would like, anyway. Which means you create a constant vicious and frustrations. What's more, eventually your attempts at your life and they become resentful. And if it goes on long enough, they may even of spite! The solution is to let go of your expectations. Stop creating stories about what you want And instead, just be present for the person Validate their current struggles instead of Set real boundaries on their behavior instead Meet them where they are instead of where Hang on to your hopes but let go of your expectations. If you want to increase your emotional intelligence, of trying to improve your emotional intelligence habits that are interfering with your natural Stop criticizing others. Stop worrying about the future. Stop ruminating on the past. Stop expecting too much of others.