[THEME MUSIC] Rasheed: Welcome back to the I'm your host Rasheed Finch. And today, we're talking That's right, Android more popular on large screen devices. And that trend will continue, of Pixel Fold and the Pixel Tablet. But what does it take to make Android That's what we're talking about today. But before we dive in, let and make sure you're already a podcast because that way you'll keep And you'll be able to find for example, about the that we did at Google I/O. So But now, without further ado, let me Please welcome two product Allan Wang and Andrea Zvinakis. Allan, Andrea, thank you for joining. And as ever, let's start off and how you ended up here. Andrea: Sure. Yeah, so my name is Andrea Zvinakis. I'm the product lead for Android I'm actually based out of London. I've previously worked at Google in both I've worked on a variety of Google+, Docs and AR-VR. And now, I work on the functional and beautiful of our large screen devices at Android. Rasheed: Amazing. And we'll get into that in a bit. But we have Allan here as well. Allan, how did you end up at Google? And what's your current role? Allan: Yeah. My name is Allan. I'm a director of product for How do we end up a Google? Actually, Andrea and I came through which is this amazing program for of college or sort of into product just because I've been on Android for nine years now. I started work here on the And I'm coming up on my 13th So I've worked on a ton of projects, and been focused on different parts Rasheed: Amazing. That's great, Allan. Now, to get us started, maybe you can of devices we're focusing on today. Allan: Yeah, so we have two new-- exciting new additions the Pixel Fold and the Pixel Tablet. These are sort of the culmination of a have been putting into really making So with the Fold, we leaned into the best of the phone and a tablet. You've got a very usable in a familiar phone aspect ratio. And then when you unfold, you for media consumption, multitasking. With the Pixel Tablet, you've got but we know that tablets are We've had the insight end up with tablets kind When they want it, it's not charged, And so we've been really and building a tablet as well when it's back Both of these products share sort of our overall operating optimized for that larger screen. Rasheed: Today's guests are Andrea Zvinakis lived in before eventually getting She then came to Google, as an intern on the Google Docs team. She's been working on getting Allan Wang came to Google That's when toolbars in Remember those? Allen worked on them before moving Allan, too, went to Stanford, holding Today, Allan works on Android but is also part of the It's fair to say that both Allan So I guess at some point, decides, you know what, we're and they think about the hardware. And they think of this beautiful idea getting it off. And then, I guess, Andrea, to come up with the proper software on those larger devices. So why is a larger form Allan: I think, you know, Google Like, we have amazing partners that have And I think shipping a about us leading into that the best of Google on the device. I think for a long time tablets to mobile, if we're being honest, But people are buying into Not only are they buying into amazing watches, tablets, And so having that complete a Pixel Fold device So research is showing foldables as It's driving a lot of new after many, many generations And when you're at the you're seeing people working They're valuing the They're easy to carry around, Android 12L in 20-- which we launched last year in of our re-commitment here showing our and our device partners how important 12L had refresh surfaces. It introduced the taskbar. It had an app compatibility good experiences on the larger screen. With Android 13, you're seeing on this in large screens, both on And one anecdote-- I'm so excited to He always has his eyes on a And you really only get a few And so this is going to Rasheed: That, indeed, Now, Andrea, turning to you. So where do you start sort of designing with a brand new and Andrea: Yeah, definitely, as we were we developed a few really key in the OS design for both but also for just large screen devices So the first step was really and not making everything So we really made conscious choices For example, having two panes on and really extending your the foldable device just so that when you open up this device. We've also invested in more to really take advantage of the screen let that launcher experience shine. And also, since people want we've really focused on And so we built out the taskbar so to apps to open up in split screen. We launched the first version And during our internal done more refinements in preparation So we discovered from internal testing sitting on your screen ended able to use your current apps. So while the taskbar was when you wanted to split your screen the interaction to hide and So users often left it hidden. So the team really sprinted to make it That's just a quick swipe away when you Rasheed: That's a really So I guess foldables and So Andrea, from your perspective, And what are some of the unique aspects both of these devices with Android? Andrea: Yeah, definitely. So for the foldables, really around the unfolding experience. It's just because it's So you really want continuity more content for users when unfolding. You don't want to lose that you're in when you're outer screen to a bigger inner screen. And really, like latency Like, every millisecond really matters. And it feels extra long when you're when you're moving between screens. So we really spent a Android to switch screens really fast. And for foldables, I mean, factor, which kind of enables cases for this type of device. And so we really want to leverage So tabletop mode, for is propped open like a laptop. And that really allows for without needing an extra And to make the tabletop we worked with video apps, like YouTube, were in the lower half of the screen. Because when the controls are trying to skip around in tabletop And it's just like So it's a really great able to watch sports or like when you're sitting at a restaurant together. We've also heard from internal wanted to use the device just so that they could hands-free on the outer screen. And just leverage a new type of posture. So that led us to built out tent mode. So basically, the outer unfolding until you reach the 90-degree use cases. And after you unfold past 90 and it transitions. So that was really interesting. Rasheed: Right. So tent mode was something you but it's after internal testing we should spend some time on this? Andrea: Yeah, definitely. Yeah, just users just desired being They like that it allowed you to that you were consuming, any UI in the lower half of the screen. So they appreciated using and different types of use cases. So that was really an that came out of internal testing. Rasheed: Cool. It's awesome to see how seamless the are here. And another important element, factor you mentioned was layout. So how do you help developers design screens to prevent that, you know, as you know, spreading out over the screen? Andrea: Yeah, definitely, I mean, obviously, the that you're doing on these So it's really important that apps are So we really wanted to make it easy for with improved guidelines, So for developer question we were getting from developers Apps have traditionally been designed And so what are the next steps And so we've created large screen on Developer.Android.com in App to inspire these developers. And material UX guidelines that really landscape, multitasking, and moving just like we did with the OS. For developer tooling, what's look and work on the larger screens. So we've added Pixel Fold and to the Android Studio Emulator. And more tools, like layout inspectors update their UX to be fully responsive. Lastly, for libraries, it easier for developers to update their So for example, window size classes to embedding for multi-activity great large screen layouts, drag and on foldables. This really helps with mode for Pixel Fold, which enables And allows things like the camera the controls as a camera tripod. Rasheed: And then, so at And I think, Allan, we have like as we call it, our own of all of these new technologies. But then, I guess you need to sort make many more apps, to also use these new technologies So how do you go about and making sure that they take Allan: I think, ultimately, is showcasing the opportunity, why this is worth their time, And so, I mean, I think the first a lot of time on tablets these days. One interesting tidbit is that people-- the way people use tablets ends up If you think about your You put it down. You check it. You put it down hundreds of times a day. A tablet, you sit with. You sit with for hours at a time even. And then, when you use it monetization is actually You know, people are very engaged And then, lastly, the sort of professional segment when sort of productivity is actually really growing really fast. So what Android is making this opportunity available, and then just having that This starts with Google leading Rasheed: Yeah. Allan: We have more than 50 of for large screens sort of Key Ones, Gmail, Photos, Meet. And we also use these apps as, to help refine our own design guidance. You know, it's easy to come up with But then once you put you realize lots of things about or having resizable really important thing for users. And so by sort of working we're better able to support our As Andrea mentioned, we templates, solution breakdowns. We'll have case studies around has been helpful for developers. We have the App Gallery where they can see more about On the Play side, we're doing a better apps in the Play Store. Really surfacing them. This is great for users because apps that they should be using here. And then also great for developers We also just work hand-in-hand with like Spotify, Minecraft, Disney+. We know these are And also, just, like I us refine our own sort of on how to best have Rasheed: And any-- Andrea, maybe-- Like, are there any challenges you've building for the larger screen? Andrea: Yes, I just wanted to mention app challenges have been for the camera aspect It's a complex problem, but basically, of the foldable, and what apps are a lot of camera be squished just because apps were but getting a landscape camera feed. So we really want to make sure that when using apps on these devices. So we built some fixes into the platform We really want to alleviate the to fix some of, like, the And then, I guess is with the new multitasking we're also helping developers build out for side-by-side experiences and lets the users use the app more. Rasheed: Right. So at outset, maybe on the left side I actually have the same app And I can use it side by side. Andrea: Exactly. So like a good use being able to use Chrome comparison shopping across two windows. Rasheed: Amazing. Now, you two are one of in the world that with Pixel Tablet and Pixel Fold. So just wondering, I know you mentioned you are willing What have been your favorite so far from what you've seen and felt? Allan: Yeah, with the Pixel Tablet and so I'm able to cook with it. I set lots of timers, alarms, you use that sort of smart speaker for. And then, at the same was climbing up in her little toddler I'm taking meetings if I want to do a standing just has a really nice sound. The dock speaker is I end up doing a lot of video and music. The other one Andrea mentioned are so grateful for tabletop is often wanting to watch And being able to sit it down and have holding the phone for, you know, 30 are ultimately very grateful for that. Rasheed: Oh, that's amazing. I have a two-year-old myself. So now, I know why to get the Fold. Another user of the device. So Andrea, how about you? Andrea: Yeah, definitely. So on the Fold, I really love watching and binging my favorite shows on So I'm super excited public, so I could do this or on my commute to work. I'm also planning my wedding at the to collect my favorite design ideas. So it's really awesome to when reviewing, you know, Rasheed: Amazing. That's a great use case as well. So I wanted to thank you both for But before we go, we always like on how to use the products-- the products you've been working on. At one point, our listeners hopefully Tablet or their own Pixel Fold. What will be your top What's the first thing they should Allan: The first thing, I-- probably the nicest different from all the is is that sort of docked And I think one thing I've really just I have lots of Google Photos. I have a two-year-old, so I have And having things like that Honestly, my daughter learned the because she kept seeing pictures And you compare that to in drawers because they don't have that And so getting that has brought my family a ton of delight. Rasheed: That's a great one. So put your pictures in Google on the tablet from the charging dock. Great idea. What about you, Andrea? Andrea: So I mean, what I find most all the different postures that it that it unlocks-- so tabletop mode or for taking a group photo hands-free. There's also a rear camera selfie using that powerful rear camera. And there's also a new feature called dual screen interpreter mode-- Rasheed: Right. Allan: --which basically allows you to that speaks another language. And both of you will get your on each of the screens, Just because I have a I'm really excited to with people in a different And then, lastly, I mean, into split screening really easily. The larger screen really unlocks So really encourage Rasheed: Allan, Andrea, thank you podcast. And I really hope we to get you Thank you so much. Andrea: Thank you. Allan: Thanks so much, Rasheed. Rasheed: Thanks, again, for their insights on Android I hope you've already experienced Or perhaps, if you're like me, of Pixel Tablet or a Pixel Fold. So do check out the Google Store. That's store.google.com And if you happen to be then definitely go to the section on designing so your apps will look Make sure you're subscribed to because our next episode What does it take to create just How do you build a hinge And how can designing be useful today when you're now You'll hear all about it next time Talk to you then. [THEME MUSIC]