-Wow. Hey. Are you -- -I uploaded it already. -I have the app. -You have the -- Oh, my gosh, Come on. You are unbelievable. Welcome back to the show -These are cool. -Yeah. we have things to talk about. -Did you say hi to Bradley? I took a picture with him. -Yeah. And he looks -- -I watched the movie. Well, you knew -I knew the real Lenny. -Really? -How did you know Lenny? --Well, he lived in Fairfield and he also lived And I visited his apartment, and we used to go -What?! And his kids lived in Westport. -And what was he like? -Yeah, he really is. -Yeah. -He might have been -Than Bradley Cooper. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what people say Oh, my God. &quot;Hey, Bradley.&quot; -He was intense Oh, boy, was -- -I don't know how he does But you must I mean, I know you throw I mean, attend a lot of parties. -I go to a lot of and I go -- but I do have I have a table that seats and so I like And I live in a place -- I live in Bedford and Bedford I mean, there's so many movie They're all moving to Bedford -It's a happening place. And they're fun. They're fun. I had Michael Kelly over because he's played -Oh, yeah. -He was nice. [ Laughter ] -He was okay. You know, I've talked to people that have had dinner and they, they go -- And they go, &quot;She's really fun.&quot; -Oh, they did say that? -Like who? -And I go, &quot;What do you mean? -I try to be fun. But maybe people go in thinking that you're going to yell -No. Why? -Have you ever yelled -At my guests? No! -&quot;Hey, elbows off the table!&quot; -No, except that came during one and some alarm went off and the fire department you know, the axes And they tell everybody And it was like 20 degrees -And you're like, &quot;Excuse me, He's allowed to do this.&quot; [ Laughter ] -And then, oh, Snoop Dogg, He came to dinner. he said, &quot;I'll be there -- We're just getting off the plane But he'll stop by.&quot; And he came and seven bodyguards and they're called and they're all about And they ate everything. They ate everything for the rest of the guests. -Yeah. He constantly -I had to make peanut butter for my friends, you know. Oh, my God, it was so -- such a good relationship, -Oh, he's great. Snoop is just -Yeah. but he was like the third -- -Yeah. Can we talk that you got set up -Oh, yes. Please. -This is what I want Now, if you go on -- this &quot;The World of Martha.&quot; So you go on and you can choose And I've told you this, you've -Housewares, you know, all the good stuff That's what it's all about. -Oh, I did. Look. -Look at this. You buy this And I'm going to open it up. [ Laughter ] -So excited. Right? Uh-oh. -I can't wait, I can't wait, -Oh, a pot. [ Laughter ] [ Cheers and applause ] Now, you just ruined Oh, it has a cover, too. -It has a cover. Yeah. Ow. -He ruined Oh, my gosh. This is -- Thank you. -You need one of these. That is a very important pan -When you get pot you get a different... You get pot from Martha Stewart, you actually get an actual pot. Ba-dum-unh. -But look how nice it is. -It actually is good quality. I do love the copper. It looks very stylish. I appreciate it. -Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. You gave me these Meta glasses. Do you know you press the -Yeah, I know. I pushed -- I don't know if they're charged because it's not Oh, yeah. Look. -Yeah. That's... -Ooh! Yeah, yeah. Look at that. -Oh, I can't wait. -Oh, yes. Get the Martha Chard. Not Chardonnay. Chard. -The Chard. Tell me about this. -Well, I've always wanted and I just thought, you know, -Yeah. I really worked on the wine. I didn't just put -No, I know you. And, you know, I picked and put them -- -I did so. -You picked the grapes? Some of them. There's a lot of grapes. Yeah, it's a lot of grapes. -But we got the blend right. It's a delicious, Not too oaky, you know, it's really well-blended. And I know it's won -But you can use this because it's cold outside. You know, just warm it up. something for us here. -Ooh. This is a mulled wine. Now, what goes into this? -So just a little bit a little orange peel, -Star anise. I love this. -Look at this. This is fantastic. [ Cheers and applause ] -Mmm! Fantastic! Yes, I'm having a good time. Check out &quot;The World of Martha&quot; Rufus and Martha Wainwright Stick around,