In July of 2022, the Texas Department suspension of work on the half-finished Harbor design flaws that could cause the main span to is a high-profile project and, when constructed, in North America. It's just down the road from finished for years. But, it's actually not the put on hold. In a rare move, TxDOT released publicly castigating the engineer and contractor, details of the alleged design flaws. It's a it's your tax dollars paying for the fight. But it in the design and construction of megaprojects. behind this colossal bridge and walk through the design flaws might kill the project altogether. In today's episode, we're talking about the New By the way, my new book comes out November Corpus Christi is a medium-sized city But even though the city is well down the list it has one of the fastest growing cargo of Corpus Christi is now the third due primarily to the enormous exports of crude couple of limitations to the port that are the depth and width of the ship channel which and widened. Dredging soil from the bottom of a but we'll save that for another video. The second Built in 1959, this bridge carries US Highway connecting downtown to the north the Harbor Bridge was the largest project ever to later known as TxDOT. It was the pinnacle of allowing the Army Corps of Engineers to widen the of the time could enter the port. The Harbor the city, and it's still an impressive structure more than 60 years later, the bridge past needs. The Harbor Bridge has endured and the cost to keep corrosion from the bay year. The bridge also lacks pedestrian across the ship channel is in a watercraft or the bridge is a bottleneck on the size of ships entering or exiting fully-loaded and creating an in 2011 (over a decade ago, now), the planning The New Harbor Bridge project includes of new bridge and roadway that will replace Christi ship channel. And here's a look at how allow larger ships into the port with its the water. The bridge is being built just a short which is a good thing for us because the Port the old bridge with a drone. It will eventually be also requires lots of roadway reconfigurations in bridge to the existing highway. The crown supported by two impressive pylons on either side The bridge will feature 3 lanes of traffic each with a belvedere midspan that will give intrepid The project was procured as a design-build Dragados USA and Flatiron Construction, two group of subcontractors and engineers to support industry) really just means that the folks who same team and work (hopefully) in collaboration to a lot of ways, and design-build contracts on large less expensive than similar jobs that follow the hires an engineer to develop designs and then contractor. When an engineer and contractor you often end up with innovative approaches and otherwise. You also don't have to wait for all construction on the parts that are ready, so the see, DB contracts come with some challenges too. (legally speaking), the owner of the project control over some of the major decisions. Also, to make big decisions about the project before they've even won the job, which reduces the Construction on the New Harbor with an original completion date of 2020. But, another bridge halfway across the country In March of 2018, a pedestrian bridge at Florida construction, killing six people and injuring the National Transportation Safety Board put a miscalculation by the engineer, FIGG, Dragados to design the New Harbor Bridge disputes the NTSB's assessment and has pinning the blame for the incident on the FIU collapse led TxDOT to consider whether In November of 2019, they asked the DB they could review the NTSB findings and conduct TxDOT issued a statement that they had replace FIGG Bridge Engineers from the design of firm would have to review the FIGG designs, and take responsibility for the project as FIGG would be fired from another cable-stayed debarred by the Federal Highway Administration about six months for the New Harbor Bridge DB main span. The contractor said it expected Construction on the project forged ahead through of the approach bridges that lead to the main with huge columns supporting each span above. of segmental box girders, massive elements that the bridge. For each approach, these segments are an enormous self-propelled gantry crane. Once steel cables called tendons are run through using powerful hydraulic jacks. When the the span is then self-supporting and the crane segmental construction is an extremely efficient today, but it actually got its start right here in was replaced in 1973 to connect Corpus Christi to the first precast segmental bridge constructed personnel can get inside the box girders. It's a to make sure the bridge is performing well over include locked entryways to the box girders Work on the main span bridge didn't resume until suspended the design of this part of the project. to take shape above the ground. Early this year, cranes to join the tower cranes already set up were used to lift the table segments where the The next step in construction is to begin into place while crews continue building the than doing the entire span at once, these a balanced cantilever method, where each one is But, it probably won't happen anytime soon main span in July and has continued a very that is far from resolved. During the shakeup to review the designs and inform their decision project. When the DB contractor hired a new TxDOT kept their independent engineer to review identified in the FIGG design persisted into the TxDOT issued the contractor a notice document in a construction project used to let a comply with the terms of the contract. And when the nonconforming work at their own cost. The report and a summary table of 23 issues that and it required their contractor to submit nonconforming work. But they didn't provide that So, in July, TxDOT sent another letter enacting a suspend work in an emergency situation that citing five serious issues with design of The first two of the alleged flaws are related supports each of the two pylons. Each tower cap that is the area of two basketball courts and slab are drilled shaft piles, each one about or 64 meters deep. The most critical loads bridge and towers horizontally. You might not a structure of this size, but don't forget coast and regularly subject to hurricane force under some loading conditions, many of the piles of more than 20% of their capacity. In other error identified in the analysis was that the that concrete slab between the tower and the All of engineering involves making simplifying are complicated, soils are variable, loading simpler, we neglect factors that aren't essential in depth than most single story buildings, you isn't going to flex much. But, we're talking about flexibility of the pile cap, you find out that to each pile evenly. Instead, some become that the design reviewer delicately labeled as The next critical design problem identified transfer the weight of the bridge's superstructure to the box girders below the bridge deck using be used to resist shear forces, those sliding For those forces, according to the code, you this interface. Without it, a crack could The fourth issue identified is related to the bridge deck near each pylon. The independent the superstructure could lift up rather than only cause issues with the bearings themselves, directions while allowing movement in others. reducing the stiffness of the bridge that The final issue identified, and the most construction of the bridge. Construction is especially before the deck is connected the approaches. The contractor is planning to will be used to hoist the girder segments into and their independent reviewer allege that the forces during construction and will need For the contractor's part, they have denied that the local paper saying that they were "confident designed." In their letter to TxDOT, they cite independent design reviewer and accuse TxDOT allowing them to continue with construction and Because of TxDOT's directive to suspend the work, main span, reassigning crews, and reallocating notifying the contractor of a default in the It's hard to overstate the disruption of of this scale are among the most complicated and just start and stop on a dime, and these legal people working on the New Harbor Bridge project. cranes alone is probably in the tens of thousands labor on a job this size, and you can see that an operation like this. It's never a good sign If the bridge design is truly flawed (and are sharing the evidence publicly), it's a issues can be addressed before they turn into a begs the question of why these concerns were working even when TxDOT knew there were issues. and their design and construction rarely goes There just isn't as much precedent for we have processes in place to account for deck). Those processes include thorough quality So who's at fault here? Is it the DB then recertifying that design with a completely number of serious flaws? Or is it TxDOT for least failing to stop the work) until the of taxpayer dollars have already been spent on and rebuilt? The simple answer is probably both, and the battle is sure to be dramatic for those for those who pay taxes. The design issues and I think it's highly unlikely that TxDOT way or another. Some work may have to be replaced retrofits. The best case scenario for everyone with their contractor and get the designs fixed new. In the industry, they call that stepping companies jumping for a chance to take over this Two things are for sure (as they almost The bridge is going to cost more than we expected, and it's going to take longer to build than There's actually another, much longer, in the US and Canada between Detroit, Michigan it is currently scheduled to be complete by the Christi project. Every single person who crosses complete, will do so as an act of trust in the who oversaw the projects. So, I'm thankful that about what's happening behind the scenes to make finished. As someone who lives in south Texas, and I'm hopeful that these issues can be resolved or cost. The latest headlines make it seem like if you're in Corpus Christi crossing the but still striking (and still standing) old of an impressive construction site and what was And if you want to learn more about the various to spot and identify the most interesting aspects have the book for you. I mean... I actually have it out this November. But, I got an early copy in the proud of how it came out. Engineering in Plain full of colorful illustrations of all the things When I was studying engineering in school, every some innocuous part of my surroundings that I In Plain Sight is my way to share that joy and beholder of the constructed environment. It's crammed between two covers. The book is available and comes out on November 1st. If you want a them on my website at practical.engineering, and pin taken from one of the book's illustrations. excited for you to see the final book. Thank you