You might have noticed a new icon appearing just in apps like Word, PowerPoint, Teams, in your But what exactly is it and should you start Hi everyone, Kevin here, and in this video, can transform your day-to-day tasks so you you're drafting emails, crafting documents, you. Your workflows are about to get significantly what even is Copilot and what can you I partnered with Microsoft and they recommended to copilot.microsoft.com in your web browser, you can click on the Copilot icon and that'll also trick, you can also press the Windows key together Copilot. And if you have a newer keyboard, it's Copilot key. This opens up the core way that you bottom, you can type in a prompt, and a prompt can let's try typing something in. I'll enter in, typing in a question, over on the right-hand side, to ask something to the Copilot. Now that I've side, let's click on Submit. And look at that, here it tells us exactly what Copilot is. It's you can keep the conversation going by asking all of the context of your conversation. So down else. This time, I'll enter in, &quot;What are 10 send that through. And if we look right up above, you could use it for writing assistance. It can also get coding help. Right here, you can have even you can have it write jokes. And I've or at least it gets me laughing. Once you're the bottom left-hand corner, you can click on this we now have a clean slate to work with. So far, the AI. However, you can also have it create in the field, let's type in, &quot;Make an image of a than The Kevin Cookie Company.&quot; And let's see what it looks like it generated four different images these look really good. Some of them have some in this one. So, you could attempt again until you Along with generating images, you can also extend we're going to use Copilot on the web. This opens that it looks very similar. Over on the right-hand see a history of all of our chats or conversations we have something called plugins. When I click on that you can toggle on to extend the capabilities trying to get information about recipes. Maybe you to find the best flight to a certain destination, this is one of my favorites, there's something the Copilot the ability to compose and create it as well. Now, over on the left-hand side, we I'll type in some text, make a short jingle or submit that. And right above, it has now generated is so incredible. Keep in mind, the vocals, the impressive. Now, up to this point, we've been but you can also use an image as your prompt. computer of some chocolate chip cookies, and I've I'll take the image and let's drop it over here. my question, but instead of typing, let's try this icon. How do I make these? And there, it's through. And it looks like it's now responded. of the chocolate chip cookies. And down below, it scroll down a little bit more, here, I have the on. Hopefully, you're starting to see some of the is completely free. There's also a premium plan and brings Copilot to all of the Microsoft 365 in some of the Microsoft 365 apps. Let's start by can help you here. In the top right-hand corner, number of different sample prompts. And down at prompt. Now, right over here, we can click on this and that'll give you some ideas of how I have a few messages, and I want to know if there let's hover over Understand, and then click on &quot;Do I have any action items in my unread emails on that and see what the Copilot comes back with. different actions that I need to follow up on. me. It looks like she's asking about the status like Adele had a question for me. So that's a quickly. Here, I'll close out of this pane, and on this email message. And here, I see it over it's just a little bit long. So right up on top, I it summarizes the email for me. And it looks like so I should probably respond to her. Right This now opens up my reply. Now I'll click into can press the forward slash. And here, I have the and over here, what do I want to say? Well, can cookies for another project, but I'll send her And here, it looks like it's drafted a nicely been heads down. I appreciate your patience. continue refining the message, but I'm good I can also continue refining it. So let me just response. So right up above, I'll click on Send. PowerPoint, and let's see if I can get started over on the right-hand side, here I have and that opens up a pane over on the right-hand also type in my own prompt. Now, I want to create this sample prompt. And here it inserts Create a new Double Chocolate Chip Cookie for the Kevin And look at that. It has created an entire here I see the intro. I might have to modify some starting point. This is really good. Now, up on of these slides, up in the top right-hand corner, to take this existing slide, and it'll use AI I like how it makes the image full bleed and And right now, I think this is a really good Word. I have a little bit of additional work that just like we saw in Outlook and also PowerPoints, here I could click on Copilot, and here too, I could enter in a prompt in this field. But text for a radio commercial that I'm pulling Cookie. I can highlight all of this text, and you'll see the Copilot logo. And right underneath press Alt-I, and that'll launch the Copilot text. I can have it auto rewrite it, or I can even And over here, I could describe what I'd like to that I wrote is all that professional, but I can make it sound more professional and maybe that much time with a radio commercial. Then now rewrote the text. And it took the ideas that and it also shortened it considerably. Now, to help me with refining this text. But overall, and that's now inserted this AI-generated text Microsoft Excel. Here I am now in Microsoft year and the most popular cookie flavor for that to stand out so I can very easily see when it I could click into Conditional Formatting, and I this menu just scares me a little bit. Over on the opens up that pane over on the right-hand side down at the very bottom, let's type in the prompt. the most popular cookie. Let's send that through. here it shows me a custom formula that I can all of these recommendations look good, so down those formatting changes. And look at that. flavor was Double Chocolate. That really helps try one more example. Let's see if it could help I'll type in Generate a chart showing me market let's go up. And here it looks like it's generated I see the table. And here, I see my chart showing perfect. I didn't have to mess with the chart menu you can use Copilot to start analyzing your data about formulas and functions. Instead, you can data. Those are just a few examples of how you can there are many other Microsoft 365 apps. One aware. When you're in PowerPoint, it helps you it helps you with data analysis. In Word, it Copilot that is fine-tuned to what you're trying the key to productivity is not just working hard, you're well on your way to doing just that. If I highly, highly recommend checking out the resource where you can learn even more about But don't stop there. For those of you looking to be sure to visit the Copilot for Microsoft 365 sessions catered specifically to different roles, IT professionals, and marketing. You'll see those role types, and you can interact live with in your everyday work. Best of all, they're you'll likely find one that suits both watch more videos like this one, please consider