What are the keys to You guys loved my last video that I really wanted to make I think we understand that our peace is our feeling of safety in And there are so many things in this world that can disrupt our our own minds, our own self-talk. So, how does one Where does that come from? So, nobody's perfect and but I do feel like I've come that I have a lot to share. So, if you looked at me a decade 15 years or even longer, I was someone who carried fear, anxiety, pain, trauma. Just emotional wounds I just had so much, like and I did not understand I just, that just wasn't a thing. To now, I feel like I am someone who feels so much more peaceful, calm, truly joyful, truly lighthearted in and I've let go of so much. I've learned to reframe my I've developed practices, right? A lot of things that helped me heal and helped me get closer to peace, get closer to this inner peace that sounds often so out of reach, right? So, I have a lot to share. Grab a tea, get comfy, First, let's define inner peace. So, inner peace doesn't mean that your life is peaceful forever because life is full of ups and downs and you're not gonna be like, at a peaceful baseline First of all, it's boring. Second of all, unrealistic. So, of course, life is gonna happen, and sometimes things feel But inner peace is how you respond to life and all these external events. It's not letting external It's not letting external and the internal peace (laughs softly) So, I wrote this as my I'm just gonna read it 'cause &quot;Your inner world is like a calm lake. You don't have excessively or disruptive explosive emotions. You're not easily triggered. And even if you are, Things don't bother you as Your inner world is quiet enough that you can hear your true inner voice. You're more connected to your intuition and authenticity because of this peace.&quot; Of course, this concept of I'm sure everyone has So, let me know down below, All right, moving on to how to achieve this inner peace for yourself. I can only share from my perspective. These are the six pillars get closer to achieving inner peace. Number one is learning personal responsibility So, this is all about learning to take full responsibility for yourself, your actions and your life. So, this is about not being a victim and not blaming others or how things panned out for you in life. Of course, we have outside that have kind of shaped parts of our personality But ultimately, you have so much control over a lot of things. So, you have to take responsibility over the things that you can control. So, this is like the difference between a victim mindset So, victim mindset is you think everything's happening to you and you blame everything in your life for who you are and where you are in life. Being empowered and having is understanding and accepting, like yes, you are dealt a hand in life and not everybody Life is unfair in that way that we all have different starting points. But as a person, you have responsibility, you have control over so much. You can control your your actions that you take. There is so much that And also, within your control is how you respond to life's events, how you respond to what You can let someone say Like, you feel insecure, you're not confident for Or you can choose to respond to that person's criticism or You can choose to not believe in them. You can choose to respond, to take lessons in like confidence, like you can choose to You can choose to embrace and you can choose to take action towards creating the life There's so much that So, a big part of personal responsibility and empowerment is accepting yourself, and also acknowledging from this point on to the future, you can decide where you what you want to become, You have so much control over what foods you choose to eat, how you wanna express You have so much that So, focus on what is within your control rather than being frustrated or annoyed at the things that are Like the weather. I can't change or predict the weather. I can't control the weather. So, I might as well not Except that there are that were outside of your control. And then, it's how you If you know, this happened to me. It's a rainy day. I'm gonna choose to I'm gonna choose to bring an umbrella. I'm gonna choose to not go outside, and plan my days around this. Like, I don't know. There's just so much that and within how you choose to respond to whatever life throws at you. Number two, healing your wounds. Those three words sounds simple, but is a journey of a lifetime. But truly, healing all of your just releasing all those understanding why why you had these perspectives in life and learning to reframe, see there's a whole process of healing and nobody heals in the same way. And that's why everyone's on And I have made a lot of I have a healing workshop with a workbook actually that But even beyond doing those exercises, I had to like physically through life experiences, through doing things like like tai chi, holistic Like, I've done so many And sometimes it's not even Sometimes something in life triggers me and it opens the doorway &quot;Oh my God, I still have this trauma.&quot; Or, &quot;Oh my God, I still have this emotion or this pain that I haven't released. I haven't worked through.&quot; And life really guides you to heal. And if you're like avoiding it, Like, the more you avoid healing, the more uncomfortable it is. So yeah, like, it will but either you can actively seek healing or life will naturally guide you or force you towards healing. It's gonna happen. But the more you learn the more you open yourself looking at it, working the more you feel lighter, the more your heart feels lighter, the more life just feels and you have less less things brewing inside It takes time, it takes effort. It is something that is So, you just have to accept and just know that every that is an opportunity and to heal whatever it is. Be grateful for the triggers. Be grateful for your experiences because it's not Those experiences They gave you strength, they gave you perspective in life. If we went through life without experiencing like we wouldn't be able Like, it would just all feel versus if you've been down, like really deep rock bottom in the mud, like you can appreciate the highs because you've been in the lows. So yeah, it's a big topic and I can make a whole series on it. I have so many videos on it, Heal your wounds and you'll All right, number three is to connect with yourself every day. This is a practice. So, you wanna develop where you are connecting with yourself, you are listening to yourself, This is self-care, but it's self-care beyond Yes, take care of your body, take care of physically everything. But this is like, not This is like, spiritual. Like, literally align yourself like your inner self, your inner voice, whatever you believe that So, you can only align if you are listening to that inner voice. And in order to listen to that voice, you have to be doing journaling, taking You can't be living a where you're go, go go, because like, you're literally distracted Or even if you're someone or if you're on social like I'm guilty of that too, honestly. But if you are so or external sources, or just you're not gonna have the and connect with yourself. And this is where people veer off course because they haven't paid They haven't paid attention what truly feels aligned and what truly does not So, I talk so much about making sure that you're living in alignment because that is literally You are your own compass. No one else can tell you for you whether you're doing the right thing. Only you know. And if you don't know, then find a practice where you can connect with something internal that It doesn't have to be the traditional, sit there and meditate. For some people it's like tarot, right? You like tarot readings, and can help you align with what feels good. There's so many practices, Find what works for you Number four, and this is gonna be tough for my control freaks, but To flow with life is to learn to trust. It is to learn to let go. And when I say that, I mean learn to release I know that is super hard for a lot of us, but you can't control You can't control how So, in order to have greater inner peace, you would have to learn 'Cause if you held on, that's not peace, that's called stress. That's called anxiety and worry. And this video is about So anyway, learn to let go of the outcome, learn to release expectations. And this could be really hard they want to control They want to make sure that They want to make sure to that everything goes right. It's not easy to live that way because it's not always Things are not always gonna go right and things are gonna happen So, in order to feel peaceful you have to learn to just (chuckles softly) I say that because I'm still working on it. But I have told this and I wanna share it again. &quot;Someone once asked a monk, 'What is your secret to happiness?' And the monk replied, 'I All right, pillar number five to achieving inner peace is love. Always come back to love. If you are able to do where the true source of And this is something to truly explain because But if you can live in a way whatever that means to you. Embody love, be love, be love be love to yourself, right? Treat yourself with love, And also try and learn to see the world through the eyes of love. Like, if you can see like, if that person was your loved one, how would I think a lot of us see the Like, that we're not all connected. We're not all one being. Like we see, &quot;Oh, that Oh, it's us versus them.&quot; Like, this is what creates And it's like even discrimination, We're not seeing each other and we're not seeing the world We're seeing the world through the eyes of scarcity or greed or hate. Just all of these negative things. But if you are able to see the world through the eyes of love, you will feel truly within, like your heart is more peaceful because you will have more compassion and more empathy for people. Even people who are really Like, if you can see them you won't feel that like or angst or resentment towards them. You will see them through this like, &quot;Oh, I understand.&quot; Like, &quot;I see that you are hurting. I see that something is just not happy, not loving, not positive with you.&quot; And you know, if that or sister, like whatever, how would you see them, you know? Because we give the people we love so much more compassion, So yeah, see the world embody love as much as you can. This is also a lifelong journey because none of us are perfect. I don't know if any of us can be perfect at being unconditionally loving but it is another ideal Inner peace, unconditional love. If we had more of those it'd be a completely different world. If you wanna dive deeper into this topic, if it doesn't really make sense to you, if you wanna truly understand I highly, highly recommend &quot;A Return To Love&quot; That was a book I read It's been a few, it's been a long time. But reading that book I think it really set who I wanted to be as a person and the mission that I wanted to have in this world and in this life. It's a deep book. So, I hope you read it. Final pillar, number six is to learn to manage your energy. Or you can also use the word vibration if that makes more sense to you. So, learn to manage your energy What I mean by this is that Scientifically, everything is energy, and also spiritually, So your feelings, emotions, thoughts, how you carry yourself, So, there is an energy of love. There's an energy of joy, there's an energy of hate, right? There's all different types of energies and different colors. There's nervousness, there's stress. You can feel energy. Like, if you're an empathetic person or even if you're not, next to a stressful person, whether it's like the little context clues of them tensing their bodies. Some people are better at but everything truly is an energy. Even design and color, Like, the energy of this green, the energy of different shades of light. There's warm light, Anyway, the designer side Anyway, learn to manage your energy means that you is something that is but you have to learn how to protect it, how to purify it and how to lift it up. Of course, living life, there are so many things that or that can disrupt our energy, and that also disrupts our peace, right? For example, toxic people, pressure from parents, Just there's so many things, There are so many things that lower our vibration, so it is so key to learn to truly manage That is understanding what you can do to cleanse and purify your energy. If you're not feeling good, how can you take care of yourself? Maybe you go to nature, maybe you listen to uplifting music, maybe you listen to affirmations, maybe you go for a run, maybe So many things you can do But this all is a It's learning to be aware and and knowing what to cleanse and bring your energy back up. And so, that is super key because it's like, you Like, if something disturbs your peace, if something just you you know how to bring yourself back up. You know how to let that go. You know how to like, boost your mood. Taking care of yourself in that way is what I like to call energy care. It is a very, very It's like literally caring your own vibration, making or at a level that you want. And another aspect of energy care is also embracing that beautiful, loving energy It's embracing that you're your seasons, summer, Like, you're gonna have Even a female, like our menstrual cycle, you have the luteal Like, there are phases and phases where you don't feel great. Like, I literally, like earlier this week, I'm in the, I think it's the luteal phase where you feel low. Like, I just had a sensitive day where I was just crying over everything. And it's hormones, it's But energy care is understanding, I embrace it, I accept it. I'm not gonna force myself to make videos and be peppy, right? I'm going to do what I need and to make me feel a little bit better, whatever that means to me. Maybe it's doing yoga There are certain things make me feel better and and I'm going to do those things. So, in a way, it is self-care, but put in a more specific terms, like specifically energy care, learning to manage your energy. All right, I hope that you got something out of these six pillars to Of course, this is just There's probably so much more that I could share on this topic, but I'll keep it here for now. Let me know down below, do you feel like you Like, what do you wanna work on next out of the six things that I shared? 'Cause you know, they And also, let me know if in your journey to finding inner peace that you'd like to share. I love reading your comments, so thank you so much for If you like this video, then that you think it could help. I would appreciate that so much. And finally, I just wanna remind you that our 2025 Artist of Life Workbook is coming out on October 17th. So, mark that date and it'll be available on shop.lavendaire.com. I'll put the links down below. All right, sending you so much love, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. (gentle rhythmic music)