Armenia - a in constant flux. Shaped by former Soviet influence. And branded by the catastrophic economic consequences The majority of the population lives in abject Across from them stand powerful elites with corruption. Armenia has one of the strictest penal systems Even for minor crimes, a person can spend When your luck has truly run out, you end A prison that was built specifically to break to as "thieves in law." In other words, criminals who live by their [Voice Over] They don't want to be seen trying to control everything. The government seeks to protect its people [VOICEOVER] I am given the right to shoot The criminals that are doing time in here... [VOICEOVER] I'm cool with everyone here. Everything's fine. Everything's the way it's supposed to ... should be kept in here as long as possible. [VOICEOVER] even saw the sky. The gangsters do come in contact with prison And corrupt. [VOICEOVER] Unfortunately, we have to admit anything for money. [VOICEOVER] Being better than the normal of The Armavir Penitentiary - Armenia's declaration Eight o'clock in the morning. The prison guards begin their shift. [Voiceover] Morning! The prison is the daily workplace for correctional and Arman Beglazyan [ Beglajan]. Their daily rounds in the cell block lead All employees and visitors must go through It's the only way into the prison - and The guards register every single person who Cell phones and IDs - everything has to What is truly surprising though is that it's armed. In the Armavir Penitentiary, all guards work No sticks. No pepper spray. Not even handcuffs. [Voice Over] In Armenia there is no official clubs or handcuffs - or anything at all. We do have all of these things, but we don't We believe that only provokes the inmates They start acting out, banging against the faster uprisings. The guards in this prison believe in a non-violent behave well. [Voice Over] attacked. If a prisoner gets violent, we separate them We take them immediately out of the block If it becomes necessary, that is where we Inside Armenia's most modern detention facility, Outside, two walls and a security fence make Half a dozen watchtowers encircle the grounds. - so that nothing and nobody gets out of Unlike the prison guards, the security guards Their standard weapon is the Kalashnikov AK47. Security Guard Sasun Ghezaoyan [ Sazun Razayan 40 degrees Celsius in summer or freezing in Because carrying a gun comes with huge responsibility. [Voiceover] If there's an escape attempt, The reason for these drastic security measures This is where you will find the country's Men who live by their own rules, even as prisoners. Someone who knows these men very well is Prison [Voiceover] There are all kinds of different felons living But the most interesting thing about them They call it "thieves in law." These men reject any kind of state authority The "thieves in law" are members of the Outside the walls, they rule the Armenian Even in prison they are very powerful. [Voice Over] and isolated him from the group, he'd consider And he'd do anything he could to get back He is prepared to do anything and would stop The psychologist is one of the few people in Block 6. [Voice Over] time. They're also watching us. They always want to know what's going on The real bosses, however, remain in the background. They have their own eyes and ears: The ones to the outside world. [Voice Over] this code amongst criminals, such as the &quot;thieves leaders and their henchmen can exert incredible If there are any problems, the prison administration spokesperson from the cell block. Neither side wants any trouble. The silent deal between the Mafia and the your business and you, as inmates yourselves, Gago Galestjan [Gago Galestjan] is one of The prison psychologist "chats&quot; regularly mood. [Voiceover] sure they'll never end up in prison one Being housed in Block 6 is basically a privilege - Here in our block, it's important to stick We protect and support each other. No one from the outside is allowed to interfere. That's why there are only Armenians in Block In a crisis, we Armenians stick together. That's what's special about the Armenian The Mafia sticks together. Like a lot of others in Block 6, Gago is doing He was caught with a half kilo of heroin. That's a felony in Armenia. At the same time, it's the main source of This particular subculture originated in the When Armenia was a Soviet republic, the Mafia the prisons. It controls the fate of each and every prisoner. Part of their code is: Don't speak to anyone As the Soviet Union disintegrated, the influence The Armavir Penitentiary is the first attempt and to protect other prisoners from them. One of the ways to achieve this was to divide This allowed some of the prisoners who do from the mafia members. Block 4 is mainly occupied by small-time criminals. Block 5 is reserved for former civil servants, The felons are in Blocks 1 through 3 and in drug dealers, and those involved in organized This is where the thieves in law are in charge. Inmates here live by their own rules. Protecting the other prisoners in the Armavir Arman and Aram and their 100 colleagues. [Voiceover] Attention! Today you have to be careful! When you're searching the cells today, look For Arman and Aram, every shift begins with [ Chatschick Harutzjunan ]. They are given to their own safety: [Voiceover] Go to work! Now they have been made aware of any incidents are potentially troublesome. Block 4 is having its weekly cell inspection It's one of the two blocks whose inmates in law." [VOICEOVER] No incidents. All the same, the task is not without its Guards have to be prepared for resistance It is therefore important to have a very specifically The best time for searches is in the mornings, Let's go! In a group of five, the prison officers examine Between two and four prisoners live in the Every cell is furnished differently. Only beds and bathroom facilities are provided. The rest has to be provided by the inmates to cleaning products. Glass, ceramic dishes and metal cutlery are But of course, the inmates periodically attempt The most important part of the search: Arman escape attempts. And for obscured hiding places. [Voiceover] in the walls to hide things and then fill But they don't just examine the cells. [Voiceover] prisoners themselves to see if they are in any signs of abuse. It could happen that someone has done something inmate has done something to him. 48 cells - one minute for each inspection. The guards also keep an eye on the food. It could contain homemade alcohol or drugs. During a search, the prisoner is always present In Cell 405, the guards encounter inmates And in fact, they do find something here. While searching the cell, they discover a immersion heater - all forbidden objects. [Voiceover] immersion heater are extremely dangerous. The metal fork could be used as a weapon. And we pulled this immersion heater out of [Voiceover]... simply because these kinds [Voiceover] Unfortunately, we find stuff like [Voiceover] And they use the sandpaper to is covered using old bread and paste. Aram suspects that the objects have been stolen Investigation proceedings will now be conducted. In the worst case, the inmates could face Those who have been caught before are subjected Warden Aram checks the delivery that one of A few days ago, Georg Avangyan [ Gewog Awangjan Since then he has been under close observation. This time Aram didn't find a phone. But between the piles of clothes and objects, in the cells of Armavir. [Voiceover] - it can't do any harm. But these ceramic dishes are an absolute no-go. A weapon could be made from broken pieces. Besides the ceramic dishes, Aram also takes [Voiceover] Now this goes back. [Voiceover] Can't I take this now? [Voiceover] Of course not. During the inspection, the prisoner's mother That's because she's the one who put the [Voiceover] [Voiceover] You're always putting him at a [Voiceover] we'd be even tougher on him. [Voiceover] you would take the china and cutlery back, I'm reminding you again, that you are in Today, prisoner Georg Avangyan's family [Voiceover] and don't know what is and is not allowed They take advantage of the situation that these checks on a consistent basis. The three of us who are on duty now have to There's no way we can do that. And the families know that we're understaffed. So they take their chances and hope they can It's a dilemma. The state will not spend more money on its to control the situation. Georg Avangyan has been in prison for one [Voiceover] warm here in winter. For everything else, you're on your own. You have to bring your own fan and refrigerator. If you don't have any family to help you here. Georg Avangyan is in prison for the third He just can't seem to stop. [Voiceover] Imagine that you're sitting at a table totally Of course, at some point, you're going to Maybe you can keep away from the food for going to want to take some. Avangyan is looking at three more years behind Because he's always making trouble, he doesn't [Voiceover] That's why I lost my job here at the prison. But I'm not giving up my phone just to try No way - I'm just going to get another They're not going to release me early no So I don't care. Georg Avangyan's stubbornness brings him into The next confrontation is already brewing. Aram found him in possession of a knife. And it wasn't the first time. [Voiceover] My parents also send me groceries, like salad. How am I supposed to cut it without a knife? [Voiceover] You don't have to cook. So you don't need a knife. [Voiceover] In Block 4, Georg Avangyan is by now considered The other inmates don't like it. After his quarrel with the guard, some prisoners They're worried that they will also be more Even if such conflicts are commonplace, Arman [Voiceover] These situations stress me out for no reason. She'll be like: &quot;Why are you yelling at And I yell back, &quot;I'm not yelling.&quot; It's absurd. In Armenia, family plays a vital role. There is a long tradition of relatives taking Every day at the Armavir Penitentiary, bags Each prisoner may have up to 70 kilos delivered The relatives often come by in person. Today, Ariana Nahopetyan [ Ariana Nahapetzjan [Voiceover] Today I brought pilaf, chicken, and coffee. Everything he asked for. My brother-in-law is used to home cooking. So we bring him things from the region where This tastes much better than the prison slop Twice a month, Ariana Nahopetyan's family That's equivalent to the average monthly [Voiceover] prisoners not to feel so alone while they They realize we are thinking of them at home The deliveries are a way for Ariana's sister's Meanwhile there's a lot of activity in the This is where the normal food is prepared. At Armavir, the prisoners cook for themselves. Even the head chef is an inmate. [Voiceover] With a side of rice. The food in Armavir is strictly rationed. Each inmate gets 500 grams of main course The inmates eat in their cells. [Voiceover] You want any? [Voiceover] What is it? Rice? I'll take some! Many prisoners completely refuse to eat the what they can get themselves. For this reason, food inspection continues Packages brought in by family members carry Relatives often take advantage of the opportunity Every day, Arman and his colleague Georg have of goods. They are mainly checking for alcohol and drugs [Voiceover] mixed into the food. But that usually reduces their effect. So they prefer to hide it well-camouflaged An X-ray scanner helps the guards in their [Voiceover] You can tell by the color. [Voiceover] But it could also just be salt [Voiceover] Was I right? [Voiceover] The color is gone. It's all good. The deliveries are clean today. But smuggling remains a major problem for Besides drugs, cell phones are also a coveted The guards regularly seize dozens of them. Homemade weapons and tools are also popular [Voiceover] This thing here was most certainly [Voiceover] This tool here was used by an That's where they hide the contraband, like Prisoners and their families get very creative [Voiceover] We've had cases where we found And sad as it is, a few of our colleagues things for money. It's one of our great weaknesses here, because And there is yet another weak point in the following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Later their sentences were converted to life Whether or not they'll ever be free again In some instances, the records of the case It's a hopeless situation that often precipitates Escape attempts are therefore not uncommon. To get a handle on this problem, Commander a special team of investigators. [Voiceover] This bulletin board shows everyone That's the group most likely to think about [Voiceover] Here on the blue bulletin board Internal sources have told us they have tried I have to admit that some of them are really Like these two here, who were the last to It was a spectacular escape attempt - and watch. The cell is now a lesson for the guards - to [Voiceover] This is where two prisoners recently The investigation is currently underway, and they managed to saw through the bars without What remains is an embarrassing memorial: escape attempt. Arman is still scratching his head: [Voiceover] Unfortunately, we have to admit They both behaved totally inconspicuously. We wouldn't have noticed anything until the The almost-escapees have been in solitary Arsen is an inmate who also hangs on the pinboard That's because he's one of the lifers He's already spent half his life in prison. 4 square meter for each offender, you cannot only in this square. We are allowed to stay with two people. If 4 people were here, we can not study for As a member of a left-wing extremist terrorist for instigating a double murder. The sentences were converted to life in prison The first seven years were death sentence So Half of us have died in the prison. Because the conditions were, i dont want to And we tried to change ourself, our mentality And we decided to give meaning to our life Arsen began to study psychology. He's the first Armenian prisoner to earn Now he is working on a doctoral thesis on His own experiences as a lifer are quite useful. He is acutely aware of the hierarchies and Controlling a prison is very easy for the Because the authority of prisons is corrupted. If you are an offender and you want to change, than the policemen, who is controlling you. So this decision is very difficult to take. Being better than the normal of Armenia, that According to the Corruption Index of Transparency with Ethiopia, Macedonia, and Vietnam. There are also plenty of secret dealings going But Arsen is still trying to use legal channels Corruption is not the only problem though. Like all prisons in the country, Armavir Penitentiary Heroin and crack are particularly widespread are addicted when they get to prison. Prison authorities suspect that the "thieves them that way. Since the understaffed guards cannot eliminate the prisoners clean by means of a methadone Timur, from Georgia, is among those in the [VOICEOVER] I'm not strong enough to stop But the methadone helps to control my addiction. The substitute drug begins to take effect It lasts for about four hours. This way, the facility attempts to keep its [VOICEOVER] I'm sure if we suddenly stopped The program is also designed to curb the level [VOICEOVER] The point of this replacement have to worry so much about where we can best Here, too, those responsible are counting In Block 6 the prisoners are responsible for Here the Armenian mafia lives by its own rules. [VOICEOVER] There are absolutely no problems The people here are cool, completely normal, The prisoners are at harmony with each other. That is our Armenian mentality. We are authentic. It's not like in African or American prisons. We aren't brutal thugs. We are here in Armenia. We use our heads. We are always polite. We say, &quot;Good morning, bon appetit, hello, Mafia law forbids divulging information about Toward the outside world, everything is always Before going to prison, Amar was a professional The sport brought him all the way to France. He won't say just what it was that got him [VOICEOVER] I got a lion tattoo and a fish tattoo here. Gangster and Jesus. That's just my style. He still has six years to serve for attempted For him it was clear that only Block 6 would [VOICEOVER] This is my family here - my It's like your family at home. The only difference is that we're trapped Many of the inmates in Block 6 have a hard walls. But the ex-boxer Amar, who still has a few ideas about what his time after Armavir could [VOICEOVER] Our Armenian home. I'd like to get back into professional boxing I'm 35 years old now. There is no professional boxing in Armenia. That's why I want to box in America or Europe. It is this hope that keeps Amar Wardanyan In Block 4, Commander Harutyunan [Harutzjanan] Georg, the rebellious prisoner. The interview and the argument with the guard Georg fears that his fellow prisoners will Which is why he asked for a solitary cell. [Voiceover] We need the room! [VOICEOVER] If a prisoner asks to be transferred first understand exactly what the problem Only after an interview do we decide whether [VOICEOVER] Hello! How are you doing? [VOICEOVER] [VOICEOVER] [VOICEOVER] Why are you afraid and want to [VOICEOVER] I talked too much to the prison officials. That's against the code. [VOICEOVER] Did you talk about specific people? Did you mention names? [VOICEOVER] here, and other things. [VOICEOVER] Has the Mafia gained influence over Block There isn't usually any talk of a "code." [Voiceover] There are no Mafia members in force here. I really don't think the &quot;thieves in law&quot; Therefore, I see no reason why I should grant [Voiceover] Georg, I guarantee that I will I assure you, we have everything under control. We will talk to the other prisoners and help But you need to return to your cell. [VOICEOVER] I don't feel comfortable. [VOICEOVER] I'll do everything in my power to keep you Take care of yourself! You can go now... [VOICEOVER] Georg Avangyan can only hope that Commander still free of the influence of organized criminals. Otherwise he faces some uncertain times. The sisters Ariana and Marine Nahopetyan are the prisoners. Because they are worried about their imprisoned It's a burden for all involved. [VOICEOVER] We have to wait here for up to It's even worse on holidays. On days like these, we almost regret coming We've been here since 8 a.m. and have to And we have the children with us. How are we supposed to be able to be on our This also applies to her brother-in-law's He's in custody for drug possession. But nobody knows when the trial will start. Until then, he'll stay in prison. Only the prospect of seeing her husband and Ariana's sister, and her family the wherewithal Finally, the time has come. [VOICEOVER] Once you have survived the waiting, everything Then we can decide how much time we want to Even if it's exhausting every time, it's Marine and her children have come to know Goodbye It's a very short happy ending. In just a few hours, the visit will be over. Then the waiting starts all over again. One of the other prisoners in Armavir Penitentiary Arsen Arstruni [ Arseen Azruni] has been in His daily walks in the yard and conversations during his first years there. [VOICEOVER] us to get out. 8 years I was only in a single cell, never sky, not even through the bars. The sky today is very beautiful sky. He is comforted by his only friend, Asher As a 19-year-old conscript, he shot two companions In prison, the two started out as cell neighbors. He asked me to teach him in English. But we were in separate rooms then in 2000. So I started to teaching him by using small And he replied by doing his homework for two...ARMENIAN We correspondent betweens rooms. Teaching English and Learning English with It changed me, too. Because I saw that I could help. Even if Arsen Arstruni seems to have been living in freedom again are quite low. The murders he committed as a left-wing extremist Georg Avangyan has dared to return to his He doesn't think he'll ever get back on the [VOICEOVER] about 50:50. The fact is, when I get out of here and look record. So then everyone will know about my past. Which is why I barely have a chance at honest Boxer and Mafia member Amar Wardanyan has [VOICEOVER] Prison doesn't change people. A good person is still a good person, even You are the same person when you get out. Arsen wants to continue to fight for his release I myself as an individual dont believe in you and towers your destiny. Marine Nahopetyan and her family hope they will finally be allowed to leave one of the Until then, they will continue to visit him For the guards Arman Beglazyan and Aram Hovkannisyan, They leave the prison walls behind them until Physically, at least. [VOICEOVER] We have to solve many problems day, and do our work as well as we can. It's really not always that easy. [VOICEOVER] But right now I'm feeling totally exhausted. What I'd really like to do is put this exhaustion I would love to go home to my family feeling with me. The stress for both of them won't stop that hasn't won the struggle against the influence