(upbeat music) - I made a video a while back about the greedy cup siphon or bell siphon in which I made a 2D version And it occurred to me that would be easier to So in this video, we're But before we get to of things about the previous Well, two more examples, basically, of bell siphons in the real world. In the original video I said that toilets weren't really a good example of greedy cups siphons. I was talking about the in the UK, which it turns to the cisterns in every other But anyway, when people say that toilets are like greedy cup siphons, they're actually talking which I didn't realize. And actually in the UK toilet bowls aren't greedy cup siphons either or at least not that I've seen. Though I have seen where you flush the toilet and the level of water in the bowl rises and rises and rises, which, frankly, is terrifying for someone who's only And then it gets to a certain point anyway and it all drains out. That is a greedy cup siphon. For completeness, here's a collection of the most common toilet bowl This is the one you get in the UK. These two siphon ones are the types that you'll find mostly in North America. This one here, I actually when I visited the Hague years ago, and you get them all around There's a little platform there and that's the thing that you poo on and then it gets flushed off the shelf. It's called a washed-out toilet or a (speaking in foreign language) but I call it the turd on the shelf. The main benefit is that 'cause it hasn't got as far to fall but the downside is just The other example that is laboratory glassware It's really clever. You have this chamber that and then drains away and fills So you can put a solid in there that you're trying to and it will be repeatedly through the greedy cup siphon mechanism. But anyway, this video is This is the traditional Heron's fountain. And when I say traditional, I that this is the one you would not the one that Heron himself made in Alexandria in the first century. But anyway, the way to to prime that first container. A Heron's fountain is really cool because at first glance a perpetual-motion mechanism. Of course, it isn't because But the fact that the level of water in the top container remains fixed while the fountain is It almost feels like a law of physics is being violated here. Like, balls always roll downhill, they never roll uphill And it feels like something But actually we can convince ourselves that no laws like that are being violated by simply looking at this sped up version. Look, you'll see that all the liquid in the center container drains while the bottom container In other words, the liquid is going from a position of high to low gravitational potential energy, or, in our analogy, the ball But how does it work? It's actually really hard to tell by looking at this version because all the tubes are and they're quite thin It would be better if we and flatten the whole thing It turns out that prototyping of hydrodynamic mechanisms One of the hard parts is to put between your two I found that this wiring is pretty good. This is the sort of wiring that you find in the walls of a house. It's good because you can that you want and it will stay there, and it has this fixed width to it. (mellow music) I definitely had some failures. A lot of my issue was to do with making the whole thing watertight and, in this case, air tight. For the most part I was but I did get it working in the end. (liquid splashing) The 2D version doesn't last You can hold a lot more than you can in two, but it's much easier Side by side, here, you've the middle container and And you can see various tubes but in any case, the So the liquid in the into the bottom container And so the bottom container and as it does, it's pushing into the middle container And because the middle container that's pushing liquid out up through this tube, and that's how you get the fountain or in this case, the dribble. So overall, the liquid in in the bottom container. It's just, it goes via the fountain and that's the explanation. But for me, there's a because, like, that explanation if the entire thing was filled with liquid and there was no air and liquid in the top container falls into the bottom container under gravity, and that forces liquid out into the middle container, and that forces liquid out into the top container. But of course, that would never work. Intuitively, we know that when it'll be in equilibrium. It's just like this The level of water at each end is fixed and equal and in equilibrium. So the fact that there's is clearly important. To figure out why, let's Let's look at some important distances. You've got on the left here, the distance between the surface of the and the surface of the water You've also got the of the water in the top container and the surface of the water And you've got the distance of the water in the middle container and the surface of the water And you'll see that two of those distances on the right add up to And you'll also notice that that distance on the left is a column of water, but on the right you've got It's a circuitous column to be sure, but from a pressure point of view it's equivalent to a vertical And similarly at the bottom you It's equivalent to a column of this height but it's a column of air. So let's really simplify that with the same characteristics. I'm holding the two ends of the tube here to keep everything inside from moving. But you'll see I've recreated what's going on inside You've got a column of liquid on one side and you've got a column on the other side. Clearly the full column than the half-liquid half-air column. So they're both pushing downwards but the heavier one is going to win. So when I release my fingers, the column of liquid on until equilibrium is reached. And there you do, that's what you see. And so really the reason because gas is less dense than air. So looking back at Heron's fountain, we have a situation of unequal pressure. So the pressure from this is greater than the pressure of this half column of on the right. So the pressure here is Meaning the system is unstable. It will evolve until it What does that look like? Well, it looks like a column which is as tall as the In other words, you need a to reach equilibrium so that on both sides is the same. Clearly we don't have a which I assume is because of friction. So a Heron's fountain behaves essentially like this simple U-shaped tube between the mass of liquids in each side. You even get the same The difference is that creates a physical and gas parts on the right-hand side. And it also creates a reservoir of liquid and gas to keep the system There are a few gotchas when you're creating For example, I originally going roughly through the but of course, in 2D, a tube in the middle actually partitions a container So I had to shift the to make it work. I actually made the same mistake in the original greedy cup siphon video which is why you can see, and evenly distribute the so it rises equally on both sides. If you have any other ideas that could benefit from the 2D treatment, let me know in the comments because I've got the whole (liquid gurgling) There are a handful of YouTube channels that I make sure I watch Now, I don't get much time but when I go to YouTube those are the channels that I look for. And if I find that they since I was last there, then I ended up wandering looking for the next hit. (laughs) You know, the next, like, curiosity hit that we're all searching for. And, you know, maybe you're like me and you have that experience sometimes. And you just wish that &quot;Look, here's a good video. I promise don't, worry about I promise it's a great And the sponsor of this can actually help with that because it's a curated collection of nonfiction videos, thousands of them, whatever pick a video, it will be interesting. I like to look through the collections. Look, staff picks, David there's loads of stuff in here. You can do shorts, you know, if you just wanna Oh, look, it's Derek. CuriosityStream is available and your tablet, of course, but it's also now The promo on this one If you go to my URL, use promo code Steve Mould at checkout, you get 40% off annual membership. That's just $12 for a whole year. It's for limited time only so check out CuriosityStream today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and I'll see you next time. (upbeat music)