Our nation possessed the ingredients for the most powerful weapons ever concieved, and the secret was out. After World War Two our nation's policy was peace through strength and Hanford's work to bolster our nation's Hanford's Plutonium Finishing Plant because for more than forty years it sent to other governments sites to The Plutonium Finishing Plant was the last key step at Hanford during our weapons production years. Today it its our most complex hazardous facility as we clean up the Hanford Central Plateau. Today the plant is the most hazardous and it poses a monumental cleanup challenge The Department and Contractor CH2MHill Plateau Remediation Company are planning to clean out and tear down all of the complex's by the end of 2015. The Plutonium Finishing Plant complex, was perhaps the most guarded secret at It was the final step in Hanford's plutonium production cycle. Hanford produced nearly two-thirds of Well, from a security perspective it was innermost sanctum for all of the security measures that were put in place accross the Site. For years barriers, razor wire, guns, guards, bomb-sniffing dogs, and secrecy surrounded the 14-acre To enter the complex, workers, and the few had to go through multiple searches, detectors. All that security protected not only the but the process. More than twenty million uranium rods were irradiated at Hanford's 9 The rods were then processed into liquid processing plants. That liquid was sent to the Plutonium workers wearing layers of protective or plutonium oxide powder. The plutonium was then stored safely until at a weapons manufacturing facility in another state. Hanford expanded the Plutonium Finishing Cold War until it eventually included more than One of the four facilities was the which contain 2 plutonium production Workers in this facility worked elbow-deep in protective equipment supporting the defense mission by processing plutonium. Another facility, the Americium Recovery Facility, was used to recover plutonium and americium from liquid waste generated in the plant The Plutonium Reclamation Facility several floors of glove boxes used to reclaim plutonium from solid and the production of plutonium. A four building Vault Complex was used to finished plutonium. This was the last stop for the plutonium solid hockey-puck size plutonium buttons to nuclear weapons manufacturing sites. The plutonium production mission ceased More than 20 tons of material processing stages at the Plutonium From 1990 to 2004 workers stabilized and packaged the leftover material. Material containing residual plutonium was shipped off the site as waste. The rest of the material was stored in the In 2007 the U.S. Department of Energy designated a national plutonium storage Carolina. This cleared the way for the nuclear Finishing Plant complex to be shipped It took more than two years to safely country, and in late 2009 the last shipment left the facility. A few months after the last truck left so did the complex security needs. People found themselves able to simply it was a watershed moment for people; it a dramatic change in what they I think most of the folks that worked at the bitter and sweet at the same time; it's part of the mission; it's what we're here to do. It makes our job easier from a deactivation and decommissioning But at the same time it's a way of life that doesn't exist anymore. Today the Plutonium Finishing Plant is the to decontaminated the complex, remove the processing equipment inside, More than sixty remaining buildings are and removed to clean up the hazards of the plutonium To accomplish this monumental cleanup workers are removing and disposing of more than 230 large and hoods, miles of process, drain, and vacuum pipe, more than 6,000 feet of 196 3 to 22 foot long pencil shape tanks, and thousands of pieces of equipment that process, nearly all of it contaminated to some with nuclear materials. The levels of contamination at the require workers to suit up in layers of protective clothing including full body coverings and face covering Just getting ready to work in hazardous and removing protective clothing is For just a few workers to enter some dozens to manage clean air supplies, and coordination of safety efforts And if that isn't challenging enough the facilities themselves are aging. At more than 63 years old keeping the complex safe for workers and expensive each year, making it a priority for cleanup and demolition. Obviously the Plutonium Finishing Plant was very critical to the Hanford mission during the Cold War. However, all the years of plutonium production at the Plutonium Finishing Plant left the facility as one of the most Along with cleaning up the River cleaning up of groundwater at the Hanford Site, and Plant cleaning up the Plutonium Finishing Plant is one of the State's highest priorities. Much work has been done to get the of cleaning out and demolishing all of the Plutonium Finishing Plant complex's structures by the end of 2015. Much work remains, including clean up of some of the most The Department of Energy and contractor are committed to safely completing the cleanup of the plant using the best training, safety techniques, and decontamination methods to demolish the last of the buildings that once made