Look, the rap, she just was going like this. I know. Sorry, I wasted so much time talking about cubbies. I think she was calling me crazy. I think she was telling me to keep going. She's buttoned when people come up and say, &quot;I loved you in sex education.&quot; I just say, &quot;Thank you. Thank you so much.&quot; But, you know, I just decided I'm just gonna can as hard as I can, you know? I can in the morning, I can at night. If I'm honest, I'm canning a little bit right now. So cool. You're actually more like young Hercules. Welcome to our channel, Where we bring you the latest on your favorite celebrities, films and TV shows and we're not afraid to get a little sassy while doing it. In this video, we explore the charming and amusing instances of Ryan Gosling and Margot Robbie as they promoted Barbie. The two talented actors share a great rapport and their comical interactions while sitting together are a delight to watch. Were you Barbies when you were younger? I did not, did you? I don't know how to lower the register of my voice. It's like in I'm Inside a Barbie White. Ryan Gosling shared in an interview that Margot Robbie initiated a weekly &quot;pink day&quot; on set of their movie, where everyone had to wear something pink or pay a fine. However, all the collected fines were donated to a charity. The male crew members embraced the idea and even made custom pink cruise shirts with rainbow fringe as a token of their respect for Margo and the director Greta Gerwig. This tradition created a sense of unity and camaraderie on set, with everyone enthusiastically participating and supporting each other. &quot;And then you're wearing lightning bolt headbands.&quot; &quot;And you're all in.&quot; &quot;You have to lean in, right?&quot; &quot;Just casually wearing fake minks.&quot; &quot;There's no toe dipping when it comes to the hobby.&quot; &quot;All in love in it.&quot; &quot;It's you're in. When you're in, you go hard. They just wanted to know-- - Is that Krav Magrah? - Gretta Gerwig doing Barbie, what does that look like? - Come on, guys. Come on, hey. (whistles) - Yeah, and she plays one of the Barbies in the movie, pretty much because Greta and I thought it would be funny. (laughs) Hey, guys. - Can I offer you a picture of my husband, also named Ken? - I was hoping you would. - No, come on. He's such a Ken! - The Ken energy is strong with this one. - Oh yeah. - That's foil balls? - Is he a stand up panel? - No, he's kite foiling. - Oh, I'm sorry. - Come on, Ryan. - I can't believe I said that. - I can't either. - Can we cut that out? - You haven't foil balls? - I can't believe I said that. - This is embarrassing. Your job in this movie must be- - Margo's flaw is that she has no flaws. - Yeah. - And that's not fun. - It's annoying, man. - Yeah. - It's kind of annoying. - What type of Ken would you say that Ryan and I are? And what type of Barbie would you say Margo is, based on who you know her to be as a person? Margot praises Ryan's performance as Ken in the movie, calling it the best version of Ryan Gosling ever seen on screen. Ryan initially did not have the role on his bucket list, but Margot's encouragement led him to give it a try. During filming, Margot left daily beach-themed gifts on set for Ryan, from Barbie to Ken, to help him understand the character better. &quot;I would never tell Barbie what Barbie is. That is the first rule of being a Ken.&quot; - That was a trick question you asked, sir. - Wow. - So, Ryan, do you have any requests for Ken? - You know, just like accommodations really, like a place to stay at night. We're still not sure what happens to the Kens when the Barbies go home. We think they huddle on the beach for warmth. - I've watched snippets of a lot of different things in case it was helpful to the movie. Guys! - Guys! - Hey! Show me. - Should we intervene? Seems personal. Margot Robbie's Barbie trailer intrigued fans with a scene where Barbie steps out of her pink heels, revealing her arched feet. Fans debated if it was CGI or her real feet maintaining balance. In a TikTok video, Robbie revealed that it took eight takes and double-sided tape on the floor to secure the shoes. She clarified that it was just coordination and balance with no additional support. This provided insight into practical techniques used to achieve the scene. Did they have teeth? What happened backstage, bro? What happened backstage, bro? Hey, dude, my dude, my dude, please, please, my dude. - For people who actually have a Ken in their lives, what's your best advice? - Congratulations. (laughing) - Oh, beyond. The only thing different is he spells his name with two N's. - Ooh, like an X-Y-Z. - That's the most Ken thing I've ever heard, actually. - I totally agree. - It's two ends. - It's Ken with two ends. - Yeah. - The Kens were invited to stop by, but obviously not allowed to sleep over. Ryan couldn't make it. - Didn't want to sleep over anyway. - And so instead he sent a singing telegram for us. And yeah, there was like a knock at the door. - I'm not sold on the film, but who would you cast in it? - I, um. - In Cubbies one. - I, in Cubbies one. (laughing) - Fort, Fort, part one. Fortnite, well Ryan obviously, because the man can do everything. Margot Robbie and her husband, Tom Ackerley, were initially skeptical about the possibility of creating a Barbie movie. However, after reading Greta Noah's script, they were impressed by its brilliance. Despite their reservations, they decided to produce the film through their production company, LuckyChap. Margot even signed on as a producer before considering the role of Barbie herself. I'm gonna kill it and copy it. You can't believe it. Copy one. - I'm gonna come at that thing so hard. (laughing) You're not gonna know it. We don't have a place to go as Kens. - No, that attitude. - Yeah. (laughing) But there's no house for us to-- - That's true, there's no house. - Yes. There's nowhere for us to congregate. - We like to joke that the Kens just go inert at like sleep time. They're just like on the beach staring off into the distance while we get in a, you know, get into bed in our dream houses. - I'm glad that's funny to you. (laughing) It's just to be there as long as I'm just, you know, appreciating the awesomeness of Barbie. - Harder to be a Ken than it looks. Right? - I'm learning that. - Thank you for saying that. Thank you, Mark. - Wow, we feel seen. Thank you. - I see you. I see you, man. This is like, you know, the rhythm of which they talk or watch the red shoes for like, you know, the colors. - And then he goes right for the leg sweep. See? And I knew you would do it. Look at him, he's in it. - He loves it though. - He's the prom material. - I worked as a kid. - Oh jeez. - I didn't do it actually. - What's that? - I didn't do it. - What was your job? - I started off by stealing my brother's toys and then selling them. - Yeah. - On the street. - It's genius. - And just marking up the price so much and then he'd be upset, obviously, his toys are all gone, but. - Margo was apprehensive about pitching the idea to Mattel and Warner Brothers, fearing rejection. But after securing Greta as the director, Margo became fully committed to the project. To celebrate, Greta organized a slumber party for Barbie dolls with celebrity guests like Dua Lipa, Isa Rae, Emma Mackey, and Nicola Coughlin. The Kens, played by Ryan Gosling, Simu Liu, Scott Evans were invited to the party, but not for a sleepover. Lucky Chat, the production company owned by Margo, organized weekly movie screenings at the Electric Cinema in Notting Hill, London. The purpose of these screenings was to ensure that everyone involved in the production of Barbie was on the same page. The cast and crew were invited to attend these screenings every Sunday and watch a different movie that was used as a reference in Barbie. They fondly referred to these gatherings as &quot;movie church.&quot; - Plus one. - Margo, what's the most Ken thing that Ken does? gives answers like that. (laughing) - Bitch. - He's always there to support Barbie and bigger up and, you know. - It's a great job. - That's-- - Wouldn't wanna do anything else. - Everyone needs a Ken in their life. - You're working together again, right? You're going from Barbie to an Ocean's Eleven film together? - Maybe. - Hopefully? - Hopefully. - Oh, so I'm just saying you guys aren't tired of each other yet, I assume. - I'm not, are you sick of me yet? - Are you kidding me? (laughing) Look at me, you see how hard I'm Kenning? It's getting so hard. It is day one of the press tour, so... Young Hercules. I can't believe you brought it up. Did you guys know that Ryan played Young Hercules? Yeah, but we're both answering questions. So I've answered mine. I was so excited when I found that out. That was a really fun day on set when you revealed that and then... In an interview, Ryan Gosling was asked about his role in the movie where he played a supporting character to the lead actress, Barbie. The interviewer pointed out that he was essentially taking on a traditionally female role, with more focus on his physical appearance than the leads. Gosling had to dye his hair for the role, but he loved it and felt at home with it. He grew up in a household of strong women, including his older sister, who was his hero and leader. He felt that playing a supporting role allowed him to become a kid again and embrace that dynamic. I went down like a whole internet rabbit hole and kept screen grabbing so many pictures I know I was gonna end it open a camera I hope people watch this and go back and watch young Hercules or at the very least I hope the opposite just Google Ryan Gosling young Hercules or don't just see what comes up. Look at the puppy cuz it's amazing [ Silence ]