- At a Hanukkah celebration in 2018, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, congresswoman from New York, by announcing that she - My family consisted of Sephardic Jews. - Later that same week, a groundbreaking study After testing DNA samples from 6,000 randomly selected people researchers found that 23% of them had at least 5% of their DNA Back in 2015, the Spanish that they'd grant citizenship who could prove that they who were expelled from the By late 2019, Spain revealed that they had received The most popular countries? Mexico, Venezuela, and Colombia. All this points to one big question; why do so many Latin Americans To understand the answer, we've got to go back to the year 1492. Two huge historical events and both had serious lasting consequences. First, Spain started to and second, back on their the Spanish government which forced Jews to either or leave the country for good. Spain had already been murdering or forcibly converting That was part of the Spanish Inquisition, but this was the final nail in the coffin. Now, Jews had only two options; Nobody knows exactly how many Jews chose the second option and fled. Keeping a census of Jewish citizens wasn't exactly a priority On the low end, some historians think it was tens of thousands, it could've been as many as one million. Regardless, it seems decided to stick around and But not all Jews handled Some weren't very religious to start with, so changing creeds given the alternative. These types of converts Others were determined to They were called Marranos, but today, that's generally considered The phrase Crypto-Jews In Hebrew, both groups are called Anusim, which means &quot;people who are And in English they literally &quot;people who converted.&quot; Regardless of the name, back in the 1400s, the Spanish Inquisition and later Spanish policies had one goal when it came to Judaism; eliminate it. At the same time, Spain ramped up its colonization of the Americas. Over the next four centuries, arrived on the shores of the New World. Even though the government of conversos, it was really since they were, after all, Catholics now. Many conversos wound up hoping to start a new life, but the Spanish government caught on and sent agents of the Inquisition to the American colonies When they found them, they Despite the dangers, lots of conversos held onto Some lit candles on Friday nights, others refused to eat which always falls within As generations passed, the descendants of those original conversos began noticing curious things about their families like, why do we place stones How come mom never cooks And why does Grandma refuse Today, with DNA tests that are and more Latin Americans, to the deserts of New Mexico, are discovering that they Their reactions are diverse. Some are happy with the Catholic faith and the culture they were brought up in. Others blend their For example, the Adventist Church, which has many Latin American members, combines elements of such as observing the Sabbath on Saturday. But others choose to Some even convert. For those who do, their genealogy can be a ticket to a new life. On top of Spain's repatriation plans, Israel has its own Law of Return, which offers citizenship The country's Ministry of the to make it easier for What began as a tragedy in become a multicultural boon It's also a testament to the after hundreds of years of persecution. Even though conversos haven't had it easy, their story is a fascinating With the rise of simple DNA tests and a growing interest in heritage and identity, more Latin Americans and people around the world their identity and heritage really are. Discovering our shared ancestry can help us better understand history, both on a personal and global scale. And hopefully, with that knowledge, we can overcome the intolerance and prejudice that have divided religions and cultures for thousands of years. Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, and if you have a topic in an upcoming video, let us