Direct Darshan of the Self 25 October 2024 [Questioner 1] You said the other day, 'What is your biggest problem?' And I've also been contemplating that a lot. And my biggest problem is my person. The person, Just all of that. It's so tiresome. And ... [Mooji] You know, because there's And we have to be doing that with it, a lot. Because first the intellect comes in and takes cover and says, 'Yes. We got it!' But it didn't go in. And so the tendency is to feel like, 'OK, we've covered that subject. Sitting where I'm sitting, I've come to see there's a feeling, we don't feel like we intend to, but in that realm of mind and person it's like, And even in satsang, where a very important point is being clarified, and we have not ... Everybody's having a good time. We're sending postcards But nobody's in! You see? And then we're packing up to go. So I'm looking at that. That while we are there, also ... what is changing, from my own perspective, is that I'm not going to answer you, as though your individuality matters. Your individuality only means based on your identity as a person, So if we just work on this, we solve the personal issue today and the personal issue tomorrow. How about, in one swoop, Remember, I told you this example. A fisherman goes out and he throws a line out. In Jamaica, we didn't have these rods. We'd only have string. You have a little weight and you can throw it. So it will only go maybe three or four metres. And it was enough, we were there. And then it's a game, you know. 'Oh yeah', it was so exciting. You catch him, That's what the game is, actually. Because if somebody But if you catch him! You see, you catch him. I say, if you go like this, one line, one bait, one fish ... If you have a boat, you may go out all day. You may catch 10 or 12 fishes. If you have a bigger boat, If you have a ship, you catch thousands. But who is that one, who, with one hook, And what is this ocean? What is that hook? Who is that fisherman? I say, the one who comes to satsang. What is this ocean? To resolve the whole ocean of samsara. To understand your place in it. There's no samsara without you and your mind. So these metaphors, I'm giving like that. So the tendency to ... We have done it, also: answered this question, that questioner, another questioner, this one, a questioner. And a feeling that, in answering like this ... And there will continue, now and again, But I want to give the response, the one answer for everyone. Where is it that That would be smart! Where is it that each one, however diverse on the surface, or how unique your situation, your challenges or problems might appear, at the root, it's one thing. Who has got that? That it's just one thing! The more you individuate, I've been having this trouble with my family and they don't agree about this path I'm taking. I should be back in university.' Whatever it is. OK? What would be the point, what would be that question, to catch everyone? We cannot catch all the fish in the ocean. You can only catch the fishes Because this must happen as a gesture and an urge from your own heart; The others, they're free. In the meantime, carry on with your life. But for those who want it, then this is the hook that must catch everyone. Why would I say it like that? No, it has to be your time. You have to ripen on the tree of knowledge to become prasad for God. It cannot just be, No. To ripen means you have come to the necessary challenges, for you to feel, Whereas, there are beings in the ocean of samsara. What are you to do? Just like you had to to find out, Because so many problems we have had, They don't go away. More problems come. Is it possible to go to such a solution that takes care of all of this? And the problems are only an appetiser, you know. It's not, 'Oh, I want to solve all my problems'. What is the cause of problems? This question must come. If you keep solving problems, more come. Are we just fascinated with But it keeps going on. Or is it that we are tired of this road now? There must be something we're not getting. We keep finding ourselves What is it that you want? where you feel, Even what I'm speaking now is basic things. Because I would like ... knows the whole point of coming here. I don't have to tell you. I may say, Listen. Aim higher. Aim higher. OK. A little coffee time. [Questioner 2] Thank you so much, Guruji. [Q. 2] It wasn't simple for me. It was me and I know, I could see that I was seeing it, but it still took time to just stay present. The presence didn't show. but I actually couldn't experience it. And so, just over and over, and over again, not going with the little 'me'. And I do have to say, the fact that for whatever reason, that helped me. Because it brought me present. And there was such a pull So just over and over again, coming back. [M.] Yes, I want to share something. [Mooji] There is a very subtle point that we must clear up today. Because it has been missed, the play of the delusion can continue. Marie just said now, 'I see that it's the 'me'. OK? And many people say, 'Yeah, yeah, And I said, Don't answer. Let the question go in. For whom is the person the problem? First we had the feeling that Maybe even creates problems? Then later on, something says, Not just that the person has the problem, the person is the problem, for some. Who has come to this level of seeing? That the person is the problem. How many here Ha. OK. Next point. For whom? It's more subtle, more subtle. It's not who will answer first. It's like a little blind spot. Unquestioned. But you had to come to here first, to see, actually, all problems are personal. There are no impersonal problems! Swallow, swallow. We're not in a hurry. Or put it another way. Sometimes questions are better than answers. Because questions make you think. Answers, you merely accept. Answers often are more shallow, unless you verify them. But questions confront you. Heather, come where I can see you. Yeah. You see? So we say, Can this be seen? Because so far we have been moving on, But the food has not, it has not been chewed. And not fully swallowed. If there are no impersonal problems, therefore all problems must be personal. If the problems are personal, Meaning, they cannot be Not the same one. For someone else, If the problem was true, So, the so called problems are subjective. Meaning that they ... a problem felt yesterday is not felt today. And it's not necessarily that it's been solved. Remember, something appearing as a problem in the height of its potency, also has the tendency, unheeded, just to subside. It's not cured. It just subsides. And we have the feeling, For now! Everything is for now. Problems are for now. OK? So again we speak. The problems we speak about, whatever they may be, They are very in the moment, So we say, 'I'm trying to figure out They just keep coming back. We can have this, no? Do we have any impersonal problems? [Voices in group] No. [silence] That we came, with being in satsang, where you realise, Because all the problems You say, 'Ah, the person is the problem! Yes.' Whenever there's the person, 'I like this. I don't like this. The person is the problem. For whom is the person the problem? Any problem! For whom? [Mooji] It's for the person? That's a question, by the way. Because we speak, now. and they say, The person has a problem. But who will you hear say, 'My person is the problem.' Now the question comes, Who are the players here? [Questioner 3] Um ... [Q.3] it's almost as if there's like a ... You know, something wants to It seems like which is, maybe, But that in itself, [Mooji] Ah. We have the problem. Then the problem is seen. OK? Then we have the sufferer of the problem, Now we say, Then we see that So the problem is the person. And the person is the problem. This is also seen. Yes? Tell me when you fall off the bridge. The person is also seen. So, now, where is the problem? If the person has a problem, question: if the person is the problem, Is the person a problem to itself? Just ... We're not going to make the mistake Because that's an escape plan! And we're not going to escape today. Execution day? Or transcending day! Who is this person? What is verifying that the person is a problem? Is it the person? [long exhale] We only have this to solve. Whose discovery is this? What are the players? Identify. Can there be a problem, No. So the problem is not the problem. A problem doesn't ... A problem is not self-employed. A little problem flying around the place looking for somebody to catch it? So it's a relationship. OK. Whose problem? The reflex, often, is, 'Yeah, my problem'. 'My.' 'My problem.' We are staying in this pool. We're in the steam room. We have to sort this out. The problem ... We say there are no impersonal problems. So something has to take delivery To testify, 'Yes, this problem exists'. For whom? And this 'me' is what? Obviously it's personal. So if the one suffering the problem is personal, would that not imply or indicate Meaning that is seeing the person also. Let's not just be clever! Be real. Does the problem exist unto itself? Or does it point to a relationship? Slow down. We're not moving from here. [Voice in group] Can you say that again? [M.] Yes, it's good. I love that. It's very difficult to hold him. It's like [mimics whizzing out] When you're zooming in on something, 'Oh, we're all blurred and we're in the ...' A problem indicates Can there be a problem if nobody is suffering? Then we say, there's this problem, OK, and we say, OK? So ... A problem is not self-employed, There's no problem that exists just as a problem. Like the flu. Can there be flu if nobody catches it? So this thing, There is ... OK? We are on the wing. All can say, My problem is that my mind is so wild. It's not stable.' OK. Is that the mind's fault? 'My mind is just always jumping.' Is that the mind's fault? Jumping for whom? 'For me. It's like I just can't focus.' So identify, who is this 'me'? Is the one who is suffering the mind Slow down. Can you feel the power opening up inside [Voices in group] Yes. Is the one who says, 'My mind', is that one totally apart from the mind? Is it personal or impersonal? [Voices in group] Personal. [Mooji] And it is unique, in the sense that means, 'It's personal to me'. It may not be personal to you. The sense of 'you' and 'me' is also personal. So it's uniquely personal in that moment. 'I have this problem and it just won't go away. Is it true? Will the problem not go away is more permanent than the problem? Or is it that you only have a problem And when it subsides, 'Oh, the problem has gone'. OK. So we've come thus far. That if there is a problem, there must be Is the one claiming that there's a problem Is it personal or impersonal? Please slow down. Is it personal or impersonal? If it is personal, it is also a mode of mind. Deeply understand this. Can it be that there are two minds? One suffering the other one? Which is the more real? That which says ... Remember, I said, are like two sides of one coin. But of course, nobody talks about it. And so secretly, inside it's saying, 'No, no, no'. 'I am different And when this one is not here, I'm still here!' So either the 'I' that's still here It may be a problem factory, I don't know. It keeps having So it feels like, 'Yeah, I solved that problem'. Have you solved 'you'? Now, how can it go on like that? Because the one who says 'I' ... Because nobody, You just had a baby. 'What's the name?' No. Yet all the beings intuitively refer to themselves as 'I'. I hear that at one time ... I don't know if any Japanese person ... I hear that they don't use the term 'I' I don't know if it's true now or not. Somebody maybe ... So I'd rather have Everywhere else is 'I'. 'I' refers to this. OK? This is my address. Because the feeling, 'I am this body', 'I had an education', is there. 'I'm English, I'm here.' 'I'm Jordanian, I am here.' 'I'm African, I'm here.' Pertaining to what? [Voice in group] Form. Something more subtle is aware of the form Something more subtle. OK. All the forms are in time. Mind, problems, situation, are all aspects of mind. Modes of mind. If you want me to repeat, I'll repeat. So all the things that you call yourself, labels and references and images and so on, are they modes of mind or not? Even if you say, 'I'm a philosopher', it is also phenomenal. You were not always a philosopher. 'I'm an artist.' 'I'm a historian.' These are to do with work associations. They cannot be what you are! Can we see like that? What you are means what you always are! Not what you temporarily are. Unless we agree to the term, So today, I'm a footballer. You see? Or something like that. Am I going too fast? So, we are receding, OK? And as you recede, take nothing with you. No garment. Anything to do with the mind Meaning, take it or leave it. Grasp it and own it, It's a mode of mind, it's not stable. Emotions are not stable. Situations and circumstances are not stable. Identity is not stable! If you could catch something and say, 'Nothing can touch it, so therefore, it will remain like this forever.' Also, what determines Remember I said once, The reality of a thing, but is in the mind Can you take a moment, please, The reality of a thing is not in the thing, but in the mind of the one Meaning it is subjective. If it were not so, We would not even have to agree! We would not even have to agree, [M.] Do you follow? [Mooji] The mind, the nature is not in the thing, And the mind is not a stable medium. OK? Recede. Therefore, mind and its content ... What is mind? Has anybody ever seen a mind? [Voice in group] Ideas. [Mooji] Ideas, flowing. Thoughts. Whatever is phenomenal, whether the object is something elemental, or subjective, or emotional, Which means it is something perceivable. Is there any eternal object? Or phenomenon? [Voices in group] No. [Mooji] Take a moment. There cannot be an object, without a subject perceiving it. Otherwise it's not known. I'm not in contact with it at the moment, Well, yes, in your memory, right now. [Mooji] Do we still have value, here? OK. [Mooji] If, what we call mind, dynamic and non-dynamic, I think it's all dynamic, to be honest, because the very name 'mind' means dynamic. It's not an object, holding other things in it. But, kind of. So, mind, including its content, meaning, whatever is phenomenal, that is knowable, or experienceable, whatever they may be, are regarded as phenomenal. Meaning that there must be an earlier place, an earlier reality, an earlier seeing, inside which they are percieved. Remember, I also say, that there are no names for them, Yet they appear, in some way, and are perceived. That's called phenomena. Can you see? If everything that meaning, everything that is perceivable, from any region of space ... So let's say, If they are phenomenal, And the content of them? Does that exist? Can anybody deny? There are subtle things that that you are not able and talk about them; they're so subtle. But even their momentariness is perceived. Their indescribableness is also perceived. What is perceiving them? 'Them' meaning time, space, the mind, senses, phenomena, imagination, are perceivable. That which is perceiving these, can this itself be perceived? And by perceive, meaning that It will also denote subject-object. Listen. Don't go to your head, right now! That is only an object of perception. 'Oh, I don't know where we are going'. Never mind the mind, now. It's as though all of that, 'Log in, log in!' [indistinct voices in group] [M.] An action or reaction or interactions from my point of speaking, now. Can anybody refute? Even the sense of knowingness ... Even the function of perceiving, is a phenomenal manifestation. Can you see? [M.] Is this just abstract, mental, philosophical? [M.] Or actual? [Mooji] Actual. OK. If these are now admitted, that all this, in whatever region of time, whatever manifests, are phenomenal and are perceivable, that which perceives them, looks like what? Can that which perceives them, can that be identified or perceived? Every human being, Maybe not yet! I cannot say what good fortune comes, why this question is arising for you. Because at some point in manifestation, time, space, life, movement, this question must be born for you to go beyond. And the funny thing is, I remind you, this going is not a forward movement. It's not even a backward movement. So, a term, it was called, 'Realisation' can feel like it's to 'make real'. But reality cannot be made real. Instantaneous perception. Non-dual perception. Can such a thing be spoken? 'Non-dual not knowing?' In ordinary knowing, Whether the object is imagined or not, it's still an object of perception. The subject being the perceiver. Ordinarily, the subject is called 'me', and the 'me' has not been questioned; it's assumed to be a person with knowledge. Now we see that So, we go back a few steps. That, which is having a problem, again, [Group] Phenomenal. [Mooji] Phenomenal means observable. If it is observable, or causes it to be observed. That which causes all things to be perceived, or observed, can It be observed? And if so, by what? This alone is referred to as self-knowledge. But don't make the mistake, Non-dual Self-knowledge. The realisation of That, beyond phenomenality, beyond time, beyond all that is perceivable, Beyond life and death, anything born out of time. Today, I'm sharing with you the most important teaching. But it doesn't mean you got it! Now, your attention has to marinate. What is 'to marinate'? Whatever you see through the mind or the senses, appears in front of you as phenomena. You can say, 'In front', you can say, 'Within', because 'front' is in relation to another object, which has a front and side and back That which perceives inside, outside, up, down, here and there, is located where? Are you in speculative functioning, here? [Voice in group] No. I see the mind. [Mooji] So I've come to find you. What is your eternal form? Because all are obsessed with form. Form of knowledge, form of feeling, form of time, form of aspiration. All belong to the field of the phenomenal. The apparent, the changeful. What is capable of witnessing the changeful, even in its subtlest manifestation? Don't use your mind to think, Are you not here? But as what? Wherever there are differences, they belong to the category of space-time. Phenomena. That which causes the perceiving of these, is this phenomenal? And what will know? And if your mind, or the sense of person, is trying to escape, What is to escape? Or to reach for That in which all things are seen? From any region of time. Let's leave the planet. Regions beyond which human beings have been, Whatever you find there, Your soul is crying for joy right now! [silence] But you don't even know. Here, which is more real of you? The things in memory? Things to be imagined? Whatever is found, Whatever comes, will go. Whatever lives, will die. Where are you amongst this? You, being what? Even the sense 'I' is only a symbol of a non-physical reality. The pulse of God. The pulse is also phenomenal. [Mooji] What are you, empty or full? [Mooji] How much empty? How much can we measure your emptiness? Is emptiness something you have? I bless you that this understanding has come as a darshan of God. You don't have to discuss this, because your discussion of this Prior to learning. The source and cause the cause of experiencing. Formless awareness. Imperishable reality. You're That, in which Within which is merely phenomenal. Am I asking you to believe this? Are there any steps to be taken? In or out? Is there in or out for this? What is your shape? What is your eternal form? [long periods of silence Where will you go to cover yourself? Where is your fig leaf? What species are you? Only by the grace of God With what eyes will you see this? What is the value of memory, to this? How old are you? Will this exist because you believe in it? Unborn awareness, imperishable. Yes, let your mind run. Throw this away now. See if you can. You being what? If you are really hearing, then you've been scooped out. And replaced with what? Don't worry, take back your old idea. Frame your self-image. What are you doing? Prior to the birth of this world. Unbearable? Are you inside or outside? Of what? Are you outside or inside? And, of what? Don't discuss this. Don't try and talk with anybody about this. This darshan is only for you. What is time for you? Where is beginning or end? With what shape are you listening to this? What context do you need? So, my encouragement and advice is to get inside your inner sleeping bag, zip yourself in, and marinate in this grace. Blessed are we, So, actually, let life flow. Let the world happen. Let the mind play. Just be this invisible witness. Let this body do its play, come and go, do. Now, your mind has been where the mind and being are one. But the Supreme is placeless. Very good. All praises to the most high, by whose light and breath and the blessed opportunity Om Alhamdullah Hallelujah Amen And don't give any of this to the mind! Which also means, Unless you yourself are a person. And abide in this, as this. As long as we hold and retain your mind will not leave you alone. Multiple choice. But now you know how to catch all of this. Don't mind. Thank you. There's a tendency, sometimes, in the mind, feeling, 'Wow, that was good'. Do you understand? And you relegate it to another incident, 'What's next?' But you've been shown all things, they're only the dance of phenomena. You're not that. You're the presence of God in this form, waking up to original nature, earning the eyes to see, in the correct way. And not merely restricted by the psychological identity. Which is always calculating So, beyond beginnings and endings, the space ... Because you said also ... that you put us in this place again, to remind us that the Self has no history. It doesn't need any bag of tricks. Everything that's unfolding When we are strongly identified we see, 'Oh, this, OK. It works like this ....' For a while. But I'm very happy with today's satsang, because just in the space of and seeing that, 'Whoa', It's not going into some box of knowledge. It's just wiping the ... Just polishing the mirror of consciousness. You're here. Still it will take the play of time to settle more and more and to accept, because of the force of conditioning in the arena of the, where the illusion of personhood is so strong! Even in the sangha field it will still be held. But I know that what is being shared came only, because in perfect timing, this, this ... This comes. It's not a come and go. The going is not with it. But the soul could receive this darshan. And it's good. It's good. [Voices in group] Thank you, Guruji. Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.