&quot;I miss the old VICE, Thanks. &quot;Back when Vice So, look. When we made this, we were like, &quot;DVDs are gonna take over It's the future of Vice. I'm Suroosh Alvi. I'm the co-founder &quot;Gun Markets of Pakistan&quot; was the first video I ever did and maybe the biggest thing I should've just And I've been getting trolled In 2006, we did a deal with MTV to make this, Our pitch, when we went to MTV, was &quot;It's gonna be like We'd done a travel issue and I'd written this article about this gun market that I'd gone to with my parents The, kind of, tourist brochures that they used had the gun market listed as a place for tourists see how local artisans are making these guns that they're knocking off So my parents took me there on this kind of, like, family and that's how I discovered it. Alright. So let's see what Yes, it is very cheap. 3,050 rupees? I wouldn't compare it in the gun market compared to I'm sure there's-- This is like a Kalashnikov? -Kalakov. I think they take a certain in the fact that they -- We can do this with our hands. We don't need and the shit works. Naeem, who's our host, He was born and raised there and now works as a protocol So that's an exchange I had with Naeem in the car, turned into this, He's the founder The concept. Of what? It was just weird, like I was trying to understand, and I think we were of a communication breakdown. In the edit room, somebody saw &quot;That's fucking hilarious. Oh, God. No! Well, the good news is It was at Eddy's dad's hat. And for some reason, who became the star -- He wasn't even supposed to be He was just like, I want to wear this hat.&quot; I think Eddy was like, important to me in the tribal areas I think Naeem was actually &quot;Eddy's gonna give this to me,&quot; But that didn't happen. I'm getting trolled not the first time. They really don't like me. And that's okay. Yeah, I wasn't scared, I felt totally safe there. Things had probably happened, I mean, again, I'd gone there and it was totally safe. And that's part of the protocol. Like, the tribal areas, unless you're a resident So how it got setup was, my mom called her friend to escort us to make sure to make sure And when you're surrounded by, like, you feel secure, Last thing they want is because a couple of So it wasn't a big deal, I was nervous that I was You know, we'd spent and produce this thing. And we kind of had no idea So on that level, I was anxious, like, &quot;Oh, I'm gonna get or anything like that. Yeah. They say I'm a Pakistani agent. They say I'm, like -- Yeah, I get a lot of hate But I'm not sweating it. Aw, here's somebody Thanks. That's nice. Because now I see things like Like, he got so old. That hurts. Thanks. &quot;Back when Vice So, look, &quot;I miss the old VICE, it's because it was like to the traditional news. It was like a little rawer What was interesting was we did a deal with CNN, and they put our videos We were like, &quot;This is kind of that CNN wants our content.&quot; And then it was surreal &quot;Wait, I went to Pakistan to make this kind of fun It wasn't news. But other people And that was like an epiphany &quot;Oh, we don't have to about how we define It doesn't have to be in order for it And so what we were making one part news, one part You got Naeem Afridi. And it made something And for us, that's how But it's not traditional news, We'd evolved and it's changed. We learned a lot in these with just a couple people. In this case, it was Me and Eddy. Eight years later, I'm in Pakistan and we have eight people. Or maybe it was even 10 people. Like, too many. We'd become the thing that we said And I think you need Like, yeah, I talk about 2006 and being in the field but that's not how I even want You have to find the right So things have changed a lot for us to maintain in the content that and get bigger. Alright. So those are my tales