Transcriber: TED Translators admin The people in the back, OK, good. Have you ever held a question in mind for so long that it becomes Maybe even part of who you are Well I've had a question in my mind and that is: Now, this is an interesting question because if you speed up learning, you can spend less time at school. And if you learn really fast, you probably Now, when I was young, I found quite often that school so I had this question in mind: And this began when I was when I was 11 years old, I wrote a letter to researchers in the this is sleep-learning, where you get a tape recorder, and it turns on when you're sleeping, and you're supposed to be A good idea, But, hypnopaedia did open the doors and we've had learning that began I went on from there to become and I have been involved in psychology for the rest of my life In 1981, I took myself to China and I decided that I was going to be Now, you need to understand that Chinese was really, really difficult and that a Westerner and never really get very good at it. And I also went in with a different idea which was: taking all of the conclusions from psychological research and applying them What was really cool was that in six and it took a little bit longer But I looked around and I saw all of struggling terribly with Chinese, I saw Chinese people struggling terribly and so my question got refined down to: How can you help a normal adult learn a new language Now this is a really, really important We have massive challenges we have massive challenges with wars, all sorts of things going on and if we can't communicate, we're really going to have difficulty So we need to be able to speak this is really, really important. The question then is: How do you do that? Well, it's actually really easy. You look around for people you look for situations and then you identify the principles It's called modelling and I've been and modelling language learning And my conclusion, that any adult can learn a second Now when I say this, most people So let me remind everybody of it's all about expanding our limits. In 1950, everybody believed that running and then Roger Bannister did it in 1956 and from there 100 years ago everybody believed that Except it does and we all know this. How does heavy stuff fly? We reorganise the material from observing nature, birds in this case. And today we've gone even further... We've gone even further, You can buy one of these We now have cars in the world that fly. And there's a different way to fly So all you need to do is copy build a suit called a wing suit and Now most people, a lot of people, but a lot of people think they can't draw. However there are some key principles, to learning to draw and you can So, if you draw like this, you learn and apply them and after five days Now I know this is true because and after five days of applying these And I looked at this and I went: &quot;Wow, so that's how I look like that my brain is exploding.&quot; So, anybody can learn to draw in five days and in the same way, with the same logic, anybody can learn a second language How? There are five principles There may be a few more And before I get into those I want to dispel two myths. The first is that you need talent. Let me tell you about Zoe. Zoe came from Australia, went to Holland, struggling extremely, extremely... and finally people were saying: &quot;you're not talented,&quot; &quot;give up,&quot; and she was very, very depressed. And then she came across she moved to Brazil and she applied them and in six months so talent doesn't matter. People also think that immersion in a new But look around Hong Kong, who've been here for 10 years, Look at all the Chinese living in have been there 10, 20 years Immersion per se does not work. Why? Because a drowning man When you don't speak a language, And if you drop yourself into a context which is all adults talking about stuff So, what are the five principles First: the four words, attention, meaning, relevance and memory, and these interconnect in very, Especially when you're talking Come with me on a journey You go on a walk through a forest and you see something like this... maybe you pay attention, maybe you don't. You go another 50 metres You should be paying attention. Another 50 metres, if you haven't been And at this point, And you've just learned that this... it's relevant and anything that is related, is stuff that you're going to pay and therefore you're going If it's related to your personal goals, then you're going to pay attention to it. If it's relevant, So, the first rule, is focus on language content Which brings us to tools. We master tools by using tools when they are relevant to us. So let me share a story. A keyboard is a tool. Typing Chinese a certain way, I had a colleague many years ago who went to night school; two hours each time, practicing at home, she spent nine months, And one night we had a crisis. We had 48 hours to deliver And she got the job, in 48 hours, she learned to type Chinese because it was relevant, she was using a tool to create value. So the second principle for learning as a tool to communicate As a kid does. When I first arrived in China, and on my second week, I spent eight hours sitting talking to one of the guards on the train, he took an interest in me for some reason, and we just chatted all night in Chinese and he was drawing pictures and and facial expressions I understood more and more. But what was really cool, when people were talking Chinese I was understanding some of this and I hadn't even made any effort What had happened, which brings us to the third principle. When you first understand the message, then you will acquire And this is really, it's something called There's 20 or 30 years Stephen Krashen, a leader in the field, has published all sorts of and this is just from one of them. The purple bars show the scores The purple people were people who had the green ones are the ones So, comprehension works. and language learning is not about In many, many ways A woman I know from Taiwan she got A grades all the way through, went through college, A grades, and found she couldn't understand And people started asking her: And she was. English deaf. Because we have filters the sounds that we are familiar with and they filter out the sounds of And if you can't hear it, if you can't understand it, So you actually have to be And there are ways to do that Speaking takes muscle. You've got 43 muscles in your face, you have to coordinate those in a way that you make sounds that If you've ever done a new sport and you know how your body feels? Hurts? If your face is hurting, And the final principle is state. If you're sad, angry, worried, upset, If you're happy, relaxed, you're going to learn really quickly, and very specifically you need If you're one of those people every word you're hearing, because you'll be incredibly upset If you're comfortable with getting some, just paying attention you're going to be fine, relaxed, So based on those five principles, Number one: Listen a lot. I call it brain soaking. You put yourself in a context where you're hearing tons and tons and it doesn't matter You're listening to the rhythms, you're listening to things that stand out. (Chinese) Pao naozi. (English) So, just soak your brain in this. The second action is that even before you get the words. You go: &quot;Well how do I do that? Well, you understand what these Human communication is body language From body language you can therefore, you're understanding, you're And you can also use patterns If you're a Chinese speaker of Mandarin you will understand 60 percent of what because Vietnamese is about 30 percent The third action: Start mixing. You probably have never thought of this but if you've got 10 verbs, you can say 1000 different things. Language is a creative process. What do babies do? OK, OK, that's how they communicate. So start mixing, get creative, it doesn't have to be perfect, And when you're doing this, What does that mean? Well, any language is In English 1000 words covers 85 percent of anything you're ever going 3000 words gives you 98 percent of anything you're going to say You got 3000 words, The rest is icing on the cake. And when you're just beginning start with your tool box. Week number one, in your new language you say things like: &quot;How do you say that?&quot; &quot;repeat that please,&quot; all in your target language. You're using it as a tool, it's relevant to learn other things By week two, &quot;me,&quot; &quot;this,&quot; &quot;you,&quot; &quot;that,&quot; simple pronouns, simple adjectives, And by the third or fourth week, &quot;Although,&quot; &quot;but,&quot; &quot;therefore,&quot; that tie bits of a language together, At that point you're talking. And when you're doing that, If you look at how you'll understand what this means. When a child is speaking, it'll be using sometimes quite strange, other people from outside the family But the parents do. And so the kid has a safe environment, The parents talk to the children and with simple language they So you have a comprehensible input we know it works; otherwise none of you So you get yourself a language parent, who's somebody interested in you who will communicate with you but pay attention to help you There are four rules of a language parent. Spouses are not very good at this, OK? But the four rules are, first of all, they will work hard even when you're way off beat. Secondly, they will never Thirdly, they will feed back so that you can respond appropriately and then they will use The sixth thing you have to do, You got to get the muscles working right, so you can sound in a way that There's a couple of things you do. One is that you hear how it feels, which means you have a feedback loop but ideally if you can look at and just observe let your unconscious mind then you're going to be And if you can't get a native speaker (Female voice) Sing, song, (Chris Lonsdale) And the final idea here, is something that I call &quot;direct connect&quot;. What does this mean? Well most people sort of take the mother tongue words again and again in their mind to try What you need to do is realise that everything you know is an image if you talk about fire, you can hear the crackling, so what you do, is you go into and you come out with another pathway. You come out of that pathway you become more and more skilled to those images that you already have, And over time you even become naturally that becomes unconscious. So, there are five principles that you if you do any of them, And remember these are things Do them all and you're going to be Thank you. (Applause)