- So me and the boys in a rainforest. Ow. - We're all city boys except for Chris. So it's gonna be a little rough. - Yo, I'm already - This one's gonna be a We're not using tents. We have to build our own shelter and survive with the stuff on our back. - [Chris] So have any of - We did in the desert, but we had tents. You're stuck taking care - [Chandler] No way, land! - Whoa, whoa, chill, chill. Chandler. Please put your machete away. Put it away. - All right, first thing, need to focus on shelter, Fire's the biggest one. - I want to be able to sleep tonight. - We're gonna have to make shelters. - How? - Shelter. - Food. - Water. The water's moving - [Cameraman] Where are you going? - Chris-- - [Chandler] Chris, we're done. - All right, so Chandler, - I might as well be naked. - We have a bottle of - I got another one guys, we're good. - Okay. - Chris, we're going rogue. Thanks. He said we could. Before we get too far, I wanna 'Cause this is literally all we brought. A pillow. - You got a pillow? What'd you bring? - A poncho. That's not bad. - I got-- Wow, really? Literally Useless. Rather have a donut. - Why do I have five ponchos in here? - Hey, we got some bug spray. - Really? Whoa. - Found it. - [Cameraman] Oh, talk - Chris, would it be helpful if we went and found more dead trees? - Yes, actually. Very. - Okay. Let's go. So we found wood, Chandler. - Yes, we did. - Chris would carry it - Oh. - That is the bee's wood. That's him. - Awesome. We need more wood. We're gonna take one for the Chris is gonna be proud of us. Can you give me a dry test? (Chandler inhales deeply) Moisture? - Okay, sorry. My bad. - All right, I think we - Bump me. - Chris would be happy. - Gosh, we have to go - Yeah, I know. Oh, we made it. If you were Chris, where would I feel like he would yell - Ah! - Perfect. We're gonna try 'cause it's not good for the environment. But a hurricane actually so there are a lot of Before we start doing our own thing, Chris told us to get water. Chris, what do we carry the water in? - See if you can find some and fill 'em up. - Okay, we found some bottles. Whoops. We're gonna go find a river. Wait... - I gotta let my river go. That way. - What did you hear? Wait, hold up. That way. How's he doing this? - Here we are. - I told you guys, if you listen (triumphant music) So what would Chris do? - He said fast moving water - All right. I got my water. Is it gross? - I had gum in. - Water and gum doesn't go well. - Wow. It's actually not bad at all. - Now that we have water, we have to figure out 'Cause to be honest, we were just walking in random directions. You wanna just set up our own camp? - We could build a fire right here, but this place is kind of loud. - Okay, are we going back to Chris? I don't think we're Part of me wants to try but part of me also realizes it will suck even worse than Chris yelling at us. - I think you're right. - All right, bye. - [Tareq] Wait Chandler, are you staying? - I really want to go up - Good luck, sir. Be safe. - Thank you. (laughs) Let's go. - Okay. Bye. - [Cameraman] Are you - Bye. - [Chandler] Bye! Look at this! We're - Bye. Say it back. - Say it back! Hi. This is adventure time with Chandler. I'm on a little rock in Look what I just found. Hold on, hold on. Look at this little worm. Look at him. I'm out of water and I have no food. And I'm pretty far away from camp. I don't know how to get back. What is wrong with me? - Hey Chris, I got water. - [Chris] Wait, where's Chandler? - He ran away. Ingest that water so we have - It's not even full. How does it taste? Like seriously, it's - So where is he really? - I don't know, he ran - [Cameraman] He legit - Do we just wanna accept that he's gone and out of our lives or do - Well, there's bears. - Okay. - Let's go find him. Chandler! Chandler. Wait guys, stop moving. We have food. - We have Mac and cheese. - Wow dude, this is serious. Chandler! - [Cameraman] Chris, - I'm about to go swimming. - Chris, I have a confession. Me and Chandler were gonna - So what were you gonna - That's why we didn't do it. 'Cause we need you. So is Chandler actually lost? - He literally just went that way. - How cold is that? - [Cameraman] Oh, wow. Look at that. - You ready? Wait, no, no, no. Don't - I'm going under. Don't, oh, okay. I thought he was gonna trust fall. - Ooh, my man! You know, my wife really doesn't like it when I'm in my underwear. But I tell her, other women No woman is. She's just - [Cameraman] Yo, you look What you looking for? Uh-oh. You smell a Chandler? - I smell him! Did you know I'm a champion stone skipper? - Wait, are you really? - All right. Let's see it. - [Cameraman] A big boy. Oh! - Chandler, buddy. You ran away and-- - Oh, I ran away, huh? - You got worried? - [Chandler] You told - Hug me. I'm sorry. - It's okay. - Yes. We're reunited as a family. - [Cameraman] Hey guys, whatever - It's over there. So we We got our Chan-Chan back. - Chris is trying to start a fire. Jake is being a big dude like normal. - Chris is spinning a - Someone's gotta do it and So while we were having we depleted all our energy. So it only makes sense you do Everything? Think logical. We need food. Can you find some berries? - It's berries, not bears. We got rid of him. it's okay. All right, so we're spreading the wood out and then we're just and we'll be good. (mellow music) All right guys. So things aren't He's getting pale, his pupils are dilated. And seriously, I don't Basically, Chandler was bit by something we think is poisonous. How do you feel? - I feel like my motor skills don't work. - [MrBeast] All right I'm gonna join you guys. - There's a reason why we have is it keeps mosquitoes away. What's gonna happen if and falls on us in the - Right here, this sharp thing will probably go right into your face. This log right here is on a perfect trajectory - [Jake] I'm in between - In between two logs You're gonna stick it out with us? - Man I'm here till the end, - All you need to do is or you'll eat a spider. - I'm scared. - Chill, chill, chill. Ah! - [Tareq] Hey chill, the Bears are here. - We need to draw our - Hey, the good news is we 'cause they'll walk over dude, these guys don't even have any food and their house looks like crap. I live better than this. - I think this house is pretty good. - When you go to the doctor, do you want a pretty good No, you want the best. - Well, it's not our fault we had to spend half and then he decided to get poisoned. - Actually, isn't that - You left him. - Well, he went the other way. - If a bear came, we'd probably have to run - We'd probably all have to - [Tareq] Okay. Wait, wait, - Hey, let's start taking We need to set up these anti bear circles. - I literally am not - [MrBeast] We could play smash. - I'd rather smash my head - [MrBeast] All right, if you guys don't wanna take the - [Chris] That's not a good circle. You're already not doing great. - [MrBeast] What, you don't - No, I know it's not gonna stop a bear 'cause there's a bear right beside me. (all laughing) - [Jake] Please don't - [Chris] Everybody knows that ovals makes them way more aggressive. - [MrBeast] I've got a - [Chris] That's an oval. - [MrBeast] All right, we - That's an oval. - [Jake] Sea bear oval. - [MrBeast] All right, more aggressive. Sorry. - [Cameraman] How'd it go? - I was in there for four and just gave me some medicine. He told me to get some rest - [Cameraman] Feeling better? - Yeah. - [Tareq] Chris, what did you find? - I found a millipede, dude. Imagine, it was in this bag. Dude look, he slithered right down your-- - [Tareq] Hold on. Where - [Chris] He's going up in the bag, bro. How's he going up in the bag? Yeah, I'm gonna try and rescue him. We're now doing centipede rescue. - [Tareq] Yo, look at his legs. - You know what the worst - [Tareq] What? I hate you. Your fart was so bad, - [Chris] Look at him, Like a little nature boy. Go underground and hide, little friend. Don't get eaten by a bird. - What's up guys? It's really late. Chandler is at the hospital and yeah, I guess we're just gonna sleep. - I'm literally sitting There's all kinds of critters out here and I'm gonna go to bed - [Tareq] Okay, Jimmy looks - [Chris] Tareq, are you still recording? - I am. I got something. - I'm not! I'm not gonna fart. - [Tareq] You're like a caterpillar just about to turn into - 'Bout to turn into a naked weird guy. (Tareq and Jake laughing) - [Tareq] Oh God. On a scale of one to comfortable, - About a three. The only thing that feels good is my head. - [Tareq] What about - Slowly falling down - [Tareq] You are so close to this fire. All right guys, good night. I'll see you tomorrow. - [Chris] Oh! - [Chris] That was crawling on me. - [Jake] What was? What the is that? - [Chris] It's a millipede, bro. So I was asleep and some and I woke up and there was a and it freaked me out. 'Cause I don't like things - I'm gonna be honest. If I were you, I probably into a rainforest and try to I'd use a tent or something. I wonder what Chandler's up to. - All right, guys. I'm in bed. Hopefully you guys don't get bit tonight by those caterpillars. Good morning. I just woke up. I feel pretty good. Hopefully the guys are okay. We're about to go check on them. See you when we get there. - Oh man, we just woke up after probably one of the We keep doing these videos that was the worst night's This one is the new worst. - My body hurts so bad. - These guys are overreacting. I mean, yeah, the ground but it wasn't that bad. - I don't know when or but felt that millipede fell on my face. I just wake up and I just go what the. And I seriously considered getting up and not doing this anymore. - How you doing Chan? - How you feeling? Everyone's looking at me. - Our makeshift tent surprisingly worked. This log didn't break and send all the other logs onto our face. Which is nice because a log especially in the middle of the night. You guys heard how Chris - Hey, bugs are scary. - Oh, why do you have the knife again? - It just finds its way - I think Chandler faked being sick 'cause he didn't wanna sleep out here. - I wish. - I'm not ever coming here again. (all laughing) - Cleaning time. - Put the knife down. - Just helping. - Chandler, stop having sharp objects. Maybe the caterpillar felt threatened 'cause you're always holding weapons. - I was defenseless with my hula skirt on. And he just came up in - [Tareq] In your loins? - [MrBeast] As you can see, and we're not gonna - Watch out for bugs. Do research. - Almost all these trees were So we didn't really cut anything Camping is a lot of fun, make sure you pick up after yourself. It's not good for the environment to leave plastic and trash, obviously. And speaking of the environment, if you're a YouTuber that in any way, I want you to We're gonna plant a ton of trees, but I need a lot of YouTubers' help. So tweet at me, comment on my Instagram, leave a comment on this video, I need an army of YouTubers. We really wanna make a difference. And with that, I'll see MrBeast, oh MrBeast, oh