Magnets can seem pretty mysterious. Their However, it's easy to convince yourself that work. That's the hook - if you're not careful, theory is wrong. However, obviously, magnets do save the day? Let's dig into it. (intro music) As you know, magnets are typically little chunks The details of how the magnets that hold can be kind of complicated, but luckily we and the theory describing those magnets is much way electromagnets and they prove a weird and theory of special relativity. Electricity and magnetism are related can be made by taking two electrically charged Depending on the charges, the or repelled. Magnets are different. Magnetic forces are If the charges are stationary, nothing happens. magnetic force, a second moving charge will feel both charges need to be moving. This effect can be seen most simply when we If we run an electric current through the bottom If we also run a current through the top wire pulls the wires together. If, instead, we run the the two wires are repelled. Now, I don't want to describe magnetism the way all very cool stuff, and you might have sprained with this right-hand rule or this one or this all of it, I put links to some other videos on how Mind you, I didn't make those videos. know all the math and whatnot. What you need to magnetic force and that if the motion is the same in the opposite direction, they repel. Now, it turns out that if I were to it gets super complicated very fast and highly that tells you what's going on. And, in the more detailed explanation. So, okay, instead of two parallel wires, let's single positive charge moving either in the If the wire has no current, but the charge wire has a current, and the charge isn't moving, a current and a moving charge, there is a magnetic direction, attract, opposite direction, repel. Everything I just told you is right, and I've classes. However, now let's think like Einstein. I mean, from the charge's point of view, it's not moving. we need a moving charge to feel a magnetic force, force - at least in its own reference frame. So that makes absolutely no sense at all. We, in but the charge, in its frame, thinks it Relativity does weird things, but two observers from the wire. So that's how you can convince yourself that in magnet theory. So how is it saved? Well, to do that, we need to think about what's there are positive and negative charges. but in standard electricity theory, we say that ones are stationary. Yes, there are issues with the traditional ideas. So, an outside observer will see stationary in the wire, and a moving charge above we'll say they're moving to the right. The there we are. If we ask what the positive charge on the top sees the negative charges are moving to the left. to the right, but slower than they appear to in and the magic happens. Remember that special have clocks tick more slowly, it's also true that contraction, and I made a video about that, which the wire, it sees the negative charges in the wire Because the negative charges in the wire are the spacing between the negative charges is even stop the animation so you can see the effect. This means that the negative charges ones. And that means that the wire now Since we know that opposites attract, what charge doesn't feel a magnetic force downward, once was magnetism is now electricity, at the case where the charge outside the wire is least from our point of view? Well, we do the in the wire to be stationary and the positive outside the wire, it sees the positive charges in This means that the charge outside the wire sees Since the top charge is positive and same sign wire feels a repulsive force and is pushed away the charge outside the wire disagree on magnetism charge is pushed away from the wire. So let's recap. Moving charges make and feel they neither make, nor feel, magnetic forces. could be either moving or not. Luckily, special into electricity and vice versa. Okay, so this is all very cool, what about very hand-wavy. If you want to see how it's done written down in a book by Edward Purcell back in back in 2013 and the reference is in the that go through the argument more simply. Some of you will also note that we negative electrons that are moving, not the but it doesn't really change anything. If experiment I have described here absolutely proves phenomenon. Magnets wouldn't work otherwise. electrons are moving much less than a millimeter you to be moving at a substantial fraction of tiny, and yet relativity theory really matters. This is some really weird stuff, but it's relativity and the crazy-sounding idea of Lorentz didn't know this morning. You're welcome. (phasing sound) Okay, like I said- this is a crazy thing, but it's If you like getting your mind blown, I sure And I hope you'll return for future videos when you watch those topics, I hope you'll agree stuff - is everything. (outro music)