My childhood days at the foothills of Mount Faber. There was only one TV and nobody watched TV. We spent our days climbing fruit trees or catching spiders. I think that's where I first developed Jewel, for me, is like I get to do the things that I did looking after plants looking after the nature Today, I have the entire outdoors That is really very fulfilling. In the wee hours at night, we still have What happens at night is that guests who are lost, We also look out for guests Yes, we need to check on them so that they do not Excuse me. The guests in the day time They have a lot more questions as compared to the guests at night Usually, they won't ask so many After hours, when our if we find a lost item, we'll hand it over to our Jewel operations Mostly, we'd find gadgets and in particular, cell phones. When I was at Level 2 North, There was around $700 and the guest was very happy People think that Jewel And yes, we do have But in the wee hours, there's actually For example, the maintenance team is still and other attractions in Jewel. There's also the landscaping team who is working on For us, Jewel actually because the work that we have to do, has to happen after visitors It's almost as if the garden When everybody else is asleep, we come to life making sure everything is good We break into small teams. A group of people does the pruning, some people handle and some handle the plant washing. Spray it evenly, make sure all parts of We don't want excessive water Spread it out evenly. To date, Jewel has been receiving, 250,000 to 300,000 daily visitors. That number continues to grow. If you look through your Instagram Stories, you'll definitely see our hero shots, our Shiseido Forest Valley These are the two attractions The HSBC Rain Vortex will be starting soon. Before every light-and-sound show, we will do what we call This is to make sure that are supposed to be running What we do is make sure the pump This is to ensure that there is This is our main water tank. This is where So from Basement 3, the water will Many people may not know this, but the waterfall water itself so it's very clean. People come from all over Singapore, to view this unique and iconic feature We have to deliver at our end, to make sure that the guests get to enjoy Before the show, the team and I will go down to the site to do the pre-show checks. Are the projectors turned on? We make sure that We make sure all the pumps Sometimes, the WiFi connection has We have to find This iPad controls the Rain Vortex like the fog, the lights, and all that. When I was handed the iPad, Wherever I went, whatever I did, It's more important This iPad really is The Rain Vortex system was created WET Design. In the beginning, the American who could hold this iPad So Alex and I had to work with them. We had to gain their trust over before they actually allowed us and control the The first day we held this iPad... I still remember the day, Alex and I, along with the consultant and the consultant felt the urge That was when he handed over When he passed us the iPad, and we ended up taking a selfie. Yes, everything looks fine. The light-and-sound show During the show, One will be at the Forest Valley, The other team will be down below, making sure the servers and are not faulty. People think of the Rain Vortex but actually, there are such as the lighting, the speakers as well as projectors. These are things which the public but to our trained eyes, If everything goes well and runs smoothly, knowing that we have When I first joined, There wasn't any waterfall, so it didn't really impress me But once they started to do when they started that was when it really struck me, For me, Jewel during the day But at night, I get this feeling because of its ambience. At night, it's much more peaceful. You really get to enjoy because it's designed We really get to be one with nature. Much of the work starts I want you to trim those It's time for the olive tree One of the things that really was the planting of the olive trees. That whole night, it took us six hours because we didn't want any of the limbs And then, hauling them up was a very slow and painful process. It was a painful task. It took us a long time down to the smallest details like that gives people the best angle Here in Jewel, we have around 100,000 shrubs from To source for the plants, we went Thailand, Indonesia, and Malaysia. We've some interesting ficus plants We got them from China. We were travelling from and along the way, It was never in the planting plan, and later, we would decide It turned out very well, and they We are now inside This is a view of Jewel As with all water features, people tend to make their 'wishing well' Whenever we find coins, we will just You need to be here at night It's very peaceful. You really have time to observe There's no one obstructing the view, how the Rain Vortex and yet, it is so beautiful. As Experience Rangers, of all the attractions After the park closes, we will do a such as the Mirror Maze. We have to check and make sure the area is clean, and the lights and sound effects We just want to make sure that We'll also do a thorough check We check for overgrown plants that may be jutting too far out If there are any, we'll need to notify We have the walking nets here. We will check all the ropes, make sure there are and make sure all the My first experience on the nets The moment I reached the peak and Luckily, I had a friend with me I wouldn't have made it to the end, Most guests seem But the moment they start to look down, many would just stand still The Experience Rangers here so they will offer them I once encountered a lady who, because she was too scared. So I went over to her I saw a guy filming us. She said, "That's my husband! Her husband was also so luckily, I was there for her. When I was a kid, I liked to because that's where That was our hangout spot. My childhood playground had a net, so in a way, I get to relive Working here at a giant playground because I get to play without anyone asking, We check the safety of the slides but at the same time, it's also an excuse After the park closes, sometimes, I will just spend a few minutes which, I think, is a pretty nice way The difference between is that we are a little busier and we get to interact while night flights are a little quieter I am a very active person As an air stewardess, flying allows me to be at and on top of that, across different cultures. One time, my colleagues and I When the Skytrain went through we came across the Rain Vortex. Some travellers in the Skytrain and as it was also our first time seeing it, We burst out laughing because It took us around before we turned around and tell them what it was After long periods of travelling, when we see the lights it feels really good When the captain announces it means coming back home and getting to enjoy Having travelled so often, I've come to appreciate the simple things I remember that when I was young, the Marina Square area was mostly sea, When you see it, you'd think, and changed over the years.&quot; I think that at the heart of it, that's what Singapore We reinvented With Jewel, we reinvented The travel and tourism landscape Travellers are becoming They know what they want. They go out, look for, and discover to really get to know And there's always something new Singapore by day Sometimes, it's two completely Beyond your bars and clubs at night, it's also a great place There was the At Little India, there was From day to night time, you'll definitely find something When we started planning Jewel, we were very clear that we wanted it We wanted to put it We wanted it to be a place where... If you're a tourist from afar, you'd want to come to Singapore And I think we're really overwhelmed We never expected to have although social media People always ask me, And the irony is, when I do have pictures, "Look, this thing is crooked," It's all about what we need to fix. So I end up having Now that Jewel is complete, there are more opportunities I saw all the social media pictures so I have to say that when I first went to Jewel. And yet, upon seeing it up close, seeing it for myself I was still very impressed. Singapore has always prided itself Jewel is sort of like We want visitors and leaving Singapore that they have stepped The question I get asked most often is, I think it's because They're wondering, "How did they into an indoor environment?" This reminds me of my childhood days just for the fun of it. But actually, You can see some mealybugs which is quite common When the team of architects and they showed us these beautiful I thought to myself, or everybody here is crazy." To be very frank, because the biggest challenge has always been light. We need to get The key to that was choosing a glass that allows maximum light in but cuts out the radiant heat. The Jewel glass facade It comprises more than 9,000 and each of them is of So each panel is special. It keeps the heat out, and allows the plants to thrive. Cleaning such a requires a lot coordination More importantly, the people cleaning this and work their way downwards. Currently, our projects team is As you can see, there're many glass panels It gets quite tedious. It has to be done on a regular basis A lot of the cleaning because that's when That includes the cleaning such as high dusting, cleaning those light fittings You also have escalator cleaning, and of course, We have to do a thorough The attractions that are interesting the Canopy Bridge, The one that's challenging is the Sky Nets It's a challenge to retrieve the items caught in between the nets. The Mirror Maze can when the lighting is low At times, you might walk into a mirror. Now, I am cleaning the Mirror Maze, and getting rid of finger marks. When I first started cleaning I lost track of the way out as I was trying to spot and clean After three days, once I overcame it no longer posed a problem for me. Our central kitchen starts We start at 2am, We make all our kueh, They are handcrafted into We have to make sure that whatever and that's why we still Our ondeh ondeh our kueh dadar is still our kueh lapis is still hand-layered, layer by layer. That's why we start at 2am. It's to make sure that go out to our outlets Our first trip out of the and then throughout the day, and as the kuehs are done, from Jurong all the way to Changi, Our store at Jewel We try to make it a little different by using elements of We've also used batik About one and a half to two hours. We also have a At this counter, you can see how one layer at a time. That's something that's a bit unique. Keep compressing it down, be sure to make it even, Yes, it takes a lot of time. When Bengawan Solo started in 1979, we already have We'd get tourists from China, Taiwan, and even Japan. They'd come here and would want so they'd get a pandan chiffon cake. Travellers who come to our Jewel store What we sell at our store here at our stores in Ang Mo Kio It's really what Singaporeans and locals Food is an enormous part partly because we're immigrants. In those days, when people migrated, And to be able to eat well Everyone in Singapore I think you'll experience this The taxi driver is equally a gourmet and can tell you exactly I think that's amazing to many people I think that for Singaporeans, We have a photo wall that showcases Along this section, we have the chefs who are known as the "Four Heavenly They came together which is our famous for Chinese New Year celebrations. And here is my aunt, my Mak Koh, teaching you how to pound doing it in a very elegant way. In the old days, will visit the homes of girls and listen to the pounding, to determine if the girl can cook. If she cannot pound, and therefore, We do feel a sense of pride It is so important which is a gateway We want to offer a taste so we have satay, and we have fish curry, We are actually presenting -Bon appetit. As a Singaporean, that almost half of the brands here As Changi Airport and Jewel this is a good place to "Singapore meets the world is a tagline that we've One of the things that will really is the lush greenery as the water flows down You see all this glass? The glass panels allow so we don't have to make use to power the lighting Obviously, we look at things We think of what they when they come to If you walk around, that are located strategically They serve you water and sweets. To us, they also serve as I am Peter. Every day, I patrol Whenever I spot immobile my job is to get them to move on. No obstructing traffic on my watch. My name is Yoji. If guests need a thirst quencher just give me a ring Room service? Welcome to Jewel. Please select the 'stop' button And when anyone needs a cool-down just stop me for some water With our robots, you will see people taking photos To us, they are little stars. We do have a unique feature at Jewel, which is that our concierge team We have a colleague, Arvin, During our training, he told us that he loves to So we encouraged him I just want you to say "Stop". -Stop! Don't show it to me, Put it inside. -Okay, Mum, you can keep this. I need your palm. I'm going This fellow is going to -Okay. Look at this. -Oh my god! This was your card, right? Yes. I've been practising magic tricks I started practising I watched a lot of David Blaine shows, so I became interested. When I come to work, I am so happy Every day, I get to do this, It's a very good feeling to delight guests and in turn, I want you to pick any card. You don't have to show it to me. I usually practise such as during my breaks Whenever I can find the time, To able to work and also indulge I will never stop doing this. It wouldn't be there Oh my god, good job! This is a photo of my baby. This was taken during I guess my baby was so amazed that he opened his mouth and kept staring at the lights When I saw him open his mouth I think I will keep showing him to make sure he remembers it. When I first started my son was newly born, I was also doing my So a typical day for me would be and my day would end Basically, that was the most tiring It was hard at first. It was difficult being a first-time mum, So, not having him around at home My wife, being a supportive wife, made a compromise to have dinner with me, so that we could at least spend some time That was how I managed to balance But at the end of the day, and I was very happy I think the unsung heroes have to be all the loved ones the people around us who had to and really see us through Those are the true unsung heroes. We refresh the garden every quarter, and the theme for this round So we will switch out the orchids to fit in with the colours We will change this first, Later, we will try to change this. Otherwise, we will tackle this tomorrow. In the weeks leading up there were days when we as we had to make sure that I have a young daughter, As I have to work nights at times, by the time I reach home, So during the day, I will make sure I get to spend some time with her. At least, I still get Luckily for me, I have very good My mum is the main care-giver. This allows me to knowing my daughter On a daily basis, I will walk around One of the trees that we have We have observed some browning so hopefully, it will recover soon. After we finished the O-level exams my secondary school teacher, He told me that the landscaping industry I was always very involved in sports and did a lot of outdoor activities. I was not a quiet sort of girl, so he felt that this would suit me. I guess I was a good girl. I listened to his advice did my diploma, did my degree, and here I am, doing what I enjoy. Right now, we are preparing which is happening We are expecting Logistically, it has been because it's the first time within the Shiseido Forest Valley. Right now, we are on stage, and this where our launch Our guest of honour, will be pressing a button Jewel opened six months ago. But with a press of this button, it will One of the key highlights planned is that we'll try and surprise the guests by introducing a new It will revolve around a song that was and for the HSBC Rain Vortex. Dick Lee approached me his plan for the song that we'll write together. I have always been waiting and the opportunity to do for Singapore to connect connecting different cultures and people. I was very much We thought of the image and how it would come together We wanted to write a song but at the same time, very intimate. We will be unveiling for Jewel's opening ceremony. We are doing the final fine-tuning. I can't tell you about it now because On the day itself, I will be the one who's responsible It's a lot of pressure. We opened Jewel Then we had the second phase And now, we have the official It's a ceremonious occasion. It is, in essence, a celebration Jewel's official opening, to me, is like the opening in April The preview period We all worked around the clock. We had to stay at YOTELAIR just so During the preview week, we saw an estimated 600,000 visitors Imagine having 100,000 people come to the mall on a daily basis. It's intense. The bins would be filled up and our crew had to, literally, and get the bins emptied before they overflowed. The first few days after There were long queues at Likewise, during there were big crowds Many of the travellers that they had flown to Singapore At the very first light-and-sound show this was where I still can't forget that day. I was standing on Level 5 with Alex. We were watching Before the day of the preview, we were still fine-tuning The first show at 7:30pm... was the first perfect show Both of us were very nervous, and both of us were praying that the first show for the public The Forest Valley was In the end, everything After the show ended, people actually I think it took us by surprise, but at the same time, it gave us Set-up will continue through the night We will be having rehearsals, Today is the official opening of Jewel, we've already closed off the entire Ladies and gentlemen, and warmly welcome our Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong Jewel has become one of the... instantly recognisable icons of Singapore. Every facet of it is brilliant. Singaporeans are proud of Jewel It resonates with us because it reminds us that when we nothing is impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, may I invite you to join me, please. One, two, three! Who would have imagined that when we decided to shift our airport that one day, we would make it May Jewel long continue to sparkle and bring joy to Singaporeans I've been hearing comments from They'd say, &quot;I hear there's going to be When I saw it for myself, because I felt that that the whole world just to experience it. I think what's great about Jewel is that... it's also our airport. To me, I feel that in terms of what Singapore represents It's really enjoyed, but also very much I want to say that feel the same way about their airports We've always set out where people can build Jewel's officially open! Cheers! I think the team that was was definitely passionate The fact that today, it has become makes us all very proud. It's a wrap! This is a picture of my parents. These are my mum, my dad, who visited me when One of the memorable things is this moment when my parents "I don't remember The only time I can see you is when and meet you for dinner." But after they came over I think they were filled with pride. They then understood why I was putting I was spending including many late nights working with the My mum actually felt that I was When my mum first came to Jewel she finally understood and she was proud of her son. That is me. When we first opened Jewel, friends whom I've lost contact with suddenly found me and said, "I saw your work at Jewel and That was nice. Jewel helped me whom I've lost contact with There's a gynaecologist Every time I see her, she will say, "You know, I am so proud of you. I'm going to tell my other patients that I know the girl who does I think she is really One of the comments was about feeling very proud that Jewel has become and that the team behind Jewel Seeing comments like that all the late nights at Jewel The official opening ceremony like it marks the end of But it also feels like It's time to decide on the attractions It's time to plan and before long, It's just the first chapter The consultants and architects to help us realise this dream, and now, it is up to the team and me It is not going to be easy. It's going to be very challenging. Every day is going to be