Ozgur: Let me clean this up. Ozgur: This will start burning. Burcu: Honey. Burcu: We need to clean that ice over there. Ozgur: Told you, it's really piling up. Ozgur: I'll put this on. The snow's coming down heavy. Ozgur: I'll check my hammer. Ozgur: It was around here somewhere. Ozgur: Is it this one? Burcu: Good thing you remember where you put it. Ozgur: Whoa, this thing's got to weigh at least 5 kilos. Burcu: I'd say it's closer to 10. Ozgur: How am I gonna take it? Burcu: Is it frozen? Ozgur: I'll freeze. Ozgur: Oh... Ozgur: Oh well, more calcium for me. I'll eat it. Burcu: Want some tea? Ozgur: Alright. Ozgur: This tastes perfect. Burcu: It's something else. Burcu: Look at the roads we drove on yesterday. Completely buried now. Ozgur: No wonder they say walking in the snow is no joke. Burcu: We're walking where the tractor's supposed to go right now. Ozgur: Yeah. Ozgur: It's stuck. Burcu: It fell again. Burcu: No matter what you do... Burcu: It's snowing big flakes right now. Burcu: Is this enough? Ozgur: Here you go. Burcu: Day 4. Burcu: Morning. Ozgur: Pull a little, honey. Ozgur: Ah, found it. Burcu: Should I just put it straight on the stove? Ozgur: These are lava stones. Burcu: I need to find clean snow. Burcu: Boiling this will barely get us a glass of water. Ozgur: Good. Burcu: You're the first person I've seen dice an onion from the bottom. Ozgur: What do you mean? Burcu: I don't know, everyone usually starts from the white part. Ozgur: No, this way the base doesn't slip as much. Ozgur: Way better like this. Burcu: I'm hopelessly clumsy. Ozgur: The stones are still warm. Ozgur: Wow. Burcu: Should we step outside? Ozgur: The stove's lit. Ozgur: It'll be warm by the time we're back. Burcu: The lake was brown when we got here, and now it's almost gone. Ozgur: There's nothing left. It's freezing over. Burcu: We've got enough wood, right? No need to get more? Ozgur: With what I gathered, it'll all be enough. Burcu: The trees look like lace. Burcu: Everything's even whiter today. Ozgur: The paths we walked are all closed up. Burcu: No tracks anywhere, huh? Ozgur: Nothing here. We'll have to check the road. Burcu: Normally, we've got two options. Burcu: One's this way, where we came in. Burcu: The other's over there. Burcu: Let's check it out. Ozgur: The road curves this way. Burcu: Yes. If we go from here, we'll have to follow the trail we cleared. Ozgur: Let's look that way too. Ozgur: We're going to have to walk quite a bit that way. Burcu: The second option is to go straight here. Ozgur: Let's try that one. Burcu: Watch out for those dips here and there. Burcu: Straight through here. Ozgur: The water's running there. Ozgur: Right here. Burcu: After that, it's smooth sailing. Ozgur: After that, we just go through here and keep moving. Burcu: We'll get through. Burcu: The way cabins have storage underneath... Ozgur: Yeah. Ozgur: Exactly. Ozgur: That's how we did it. Ozgur: There's one more sack. Ozgur: I'll grab this one and that one -should be enough. Burcu: And you're tossing pellets from there. Burcu: This stone needs to heat up a bit. Burcu: Where's the cheese? Burcu: Found it. Burcu: We'll turn it over now and then. Burcu: This is turning out great. Ozgur: Let me keep it a little further away. Burcu: It's burning, the edge is on fire. Ozgur: How did that burn? Ozgur: Alright, let me try this... Burcu: Because you put in too many pellets. Burcu: Well, I didn't burn it. This time, it's on you. Ozgur: The edges are burnt, but it's fine. Burcu: I think we should let the heat drop a bit before putting in the next one. Ozgur: Alright. Burcu: Let's not count the first one. Ozgur: Yeah. This time, it'll cook perfectly. Ozgur: High five. Burcu: Feels like we're eating at a pizza place, doesn't it? Ozgur: Honestly, this is amazing. Ozgur: Let's make a few more. I could eat this all day. Burcu: I've got the toppings, but no flour. Ozgur: Just to sprinkle underneath... Burcu: Olive oil, for drizzling on top. Burcu: This dough feels like bread dough. Ozgur: Oh, this is basil. Burcu: That one's mine, right? Burcu: Look how it shines. Ozgur: Let's get that big guy's engine running, shall we? Ozgur: Let it warm up a bit. Ozgur: That's my boy. Burcu: I've gotten so used to being here. Ozgur: Then let's stay longer, honey. Burcu: We're out of food. Burcu: And no one can bring us more out here. Ozgur: It'd be tough for anyone to make it. Ozgur: So, five days in total, right? Burcu: Exactly five days in total. Ozgur: Thanks. Burcu: Couldn't grab it. Ozgur: Like this. Ozgur: Alright, goodnight. Ozgur: Good morning. Ozgur: It's way too hot in here. Burcu: First time I've sweated at night, you know? Ozgur: What a heat. Ozgur: I'm cracking the door open. It's boiling in here. Ozgur: Good, no fresh snow. Burcu: Do you think we could have breakfast outside? Ozgur: I'll do it. Burcu: I'll do it, too. Let's have breakfast outside. Ozgur: Everything's frozen solid. Ozgur: You see this? Burcu: We completely forgot about them. Burcu: Dried up so fast. Ozgur: Good then. Burcu: Wish we could take that home as a souvenir. Ozgur: Look, it's great. Ozgur: Man, I feel like I just got off work. Burcu: Let's eat quickly before it freezes again. Burcu: Where's the bread? Ozgur: Somewhere over there. Probably underneath. Burcu: This place feels like home now. Burcu: The spots we kept stepping on are all frozen over. Burcu: Do you think the birds will notice the bread? Burcu: Don't toss the bread on top of it, honey. Ozgur: Okay, I'll throw it like this then. Burcu: Was it like this around here before? Burcu: Was it like this before? Ozgur: It's all iced over. Burcu: How are you going to get those chains off? Ozgur: But the weather's warmed up a bit. Burcu: Even the rug's frozen solid. Burcu: Yeah, can't even separate the ice from it. Ozgur: Oh man, we should've cleaned that earlier. Burcu: Right, right... Ozgur: The trailer's dragging. Burcu: If you don't get on that spot, you'll make it out. Burcu: Left, left. Burcu: It's smooth from here -just straight. Ozgur: The trailer's dragging. Burcu: Oh, we're leaning to the side. Ozgur: No, we'll get out. Burcu: We've sunk on the right side. Burcu: Come on, come on, come on. Burcu: Almost there. Ozgur: Almost where? We've got a long way to go. Burcu: Sure, but once we get past here... Burcu: Alright, you're on the road now. Ozgur: We're already on the road. Ozgur: Come on, come on. Burcu: You can't see the road anywhere. Ozgur: Here, there it is. Burcu: There's so much snow piled up here. Ozgur: Probably because of water underneath. Burcu: Looks like an animal walked through here. Burcu: Yeah. Burcu: Wonder what it was.