the PlayStation two. My white whale. This is the best selling video game And ironically, me being a big videogame nerd, I mean, until now. That is, obviously. I saw this And I figured, yeah, why not? I can buy I can restore it, And then I went down the rabbit hole ton of mods and other fun things So today we are going to take and we are going to completely the first thing I want to do so that we can install some mods in it. But I wanted to point out really quickly has a period correct the keen eyed among you may have noticed So the way this would work is you would insert a special disc That disc and then you could play burned games on it. So when I bought this thing, it came Though by the time we're done with it, when it comes I can't think of a more useful tool Not only is it a huge time saver but it's also surprisingly cheap. So I'm going to include a link for that and materials Down in the video description, Once I had the main shell off, We're going to be replacing The disk It's 2023 and there are much better ways Next was this loud, dying fan. We're going to replace that and give And then the last thing Not only is this big and bulky, inside the PS2. So I found a much more efficient With all that stuff done, mid-frame in place, flipped pried off the RF shielding that covers So you look at how tiny this thing is couple of things This motherboard is orders of magnitude more complex And those two consoles were only released So it just goes to show the crazy pace Another thing here, we have the network to utilize this to do a massive storage But before we do that, I think I should give this whole board and then we are going to upgrade Using isopropyl alcohol. I cleaned off the remnants and then scrubbed away I also took this opportunity clock battery so that the PS2 can keep Then I cut some replacement of a much more efficient material. They're probably about twice and that's not even taking into account continuing right along with our Noctua fan to replace the original. Now, there is a voltage mismatch here. The original fan runs at seven volts, So that will cause the fan to over This isn't the end of the world, but more about during the postmortem analysis With the factory I was able to plug it So those are two easy mods that you can do quieter, cooler and theoretically the next thing I want to do is well, but it's also going to make it This is an RePS2 This replaces this by chopping off the original barrel and then replacing it We can power the PS2 by bridging these two contacts. I can configure this tiny chip from a standard Usb-C power Now, unfortunately, the power so not every adapter will supply 12 volts. But it My experience. Most of the good name brand adapters will. with everything, solder together I tested with a multimeter to make sure So the next thing I want to do But this next part is going to strain the limits Inside this box. I have the retro gem from Pixel Effects. This is basically an HDMI mod. It takes the image signal and makes it available if you want to connect the PS2 So why did I say Well, the PS2's motherboard So I got a little bit of help. This guy is a digital microscope. There's a camera down here, and it provides up to a thousand times So yeah, still not super sure myself, As a warm up, I started with the easy on the retro gem, and removing a number of components on the motherboard Other components like this crystal So I relocated it All of this was in an effort on the motherboard that are responsible and visual signals inside the PS2. surrounded with metaphorical landmines So as an added layer of protection, which you can think of like that gets carried in place The next step was stealing and rerouting them to the retro gem with a specially designed ribbon cable. And if you didn't get a sense of scale here should show you just how fine I secured the ribbon exactly and then proceeded to completely botch *sad noises The nice thing about solder these types of mistakes with solder wick Eventually I got it looking pretty decent and thankfully the rest of the install The flux I'm using here is key It cleans oxidation and allows the solder to flow on to them It's actually kind of magic The solder just seems to know right into position. And also keeping the tip of your iron If it gets a layer of oxidation over it, and it makes pushing and pulling I learned a lot doing this project ever micro soldering. So it's not some crazy skill And also the microscope helps a lot. That being said, time to plug everything in Here we go. Come on... Fan! Hey, look at that. It works. that is fantastic. Now, let's talk about games. you know how I said earlier that we wouldn't Well, that's because we are going to be With this, we should be able to store PS2 games. That way I won't have to keep I won't have to switch disks And because this drive is significantly but you can't just plug it right into the PS2 You might not remember this, but the PlayStation two could play And in order to do that, and because some of those titles needed The network adapters came with a little So this is actually a modified The original ones had an IDE interface for the hard drives. But this one has been updated So this just plugs right in here. And then this plugs in here. obviously Sony saw this coming. So by default, you can't just You need one other piece of the puzzle. This memory card by plugging this into It allows you to boot games content as well as a whole It's basically a mod chip Now, even though all of these parts would I wanted to give the PlayStation two So over the course of the next few days, components and ports to create a 3D model There wasn't much I kept from the original design, The PlayStation two revolutionized consoles by allowing users to run them something you can't take for granted At first everything was going great, to print my first prototype, okay. So, unfortunately, I've run The PlayStation two is no small console. And in order to create a new shell for it, the limits of what my 3D printers can do. The Bamboo Lab X1 volume of 256 by 256 and 256 millimeters. And I need like 270 milliliters. So I could print my shower multiple pieces somewhat together afterwards. Or I could just get a bigger 3D printer. This is the Creality. K1 Max And it can print 300 by 300 by 300 millimeters. it's also just a great 3D I've been using it and I've been thoroughly impressed and also how reliable it is. The only downside to it is that it doesn't have any sort it's just one filament at a time, so I'll try not to complain about that As fast as the K1 Max is, these were still extremely large prints So. Well, it's printing. Let me tell you about an alternative. And the sponsor of today's video PCBWay, they offer a wide variety of prototyping including but not limited to 3D printing, CNCing and custom PCB fabrication. So if you want to create a project but don't have the same tools that I do, well then you can just send them They'll handle the fabrication for you It's a really awesome service I'm so excited that I'm going to be making all the design files Down to the video description. That way you can follow along at home All right. Now let's head to the shop So while we're here. I would like to focus on that are going to beautify this 20 year But first, The mid-frame from the PS2 for the original case. So by zipping those off I was able to save space and make room I filed down all the rough edges and then trimmed just a little bit port in order to allow it Then it was time for some styling. I started by prepping for paint. The Mid-Frame is going to be visible so rather than have it in a satin black, But if that isn't flashy enough for you. I went a completely different direction which is going to end up A few coats of this metallic gold Now, obviously, I couldn't paint I do think that this combination of gold So while we wait for those to dry, is cut some panels that we are And in order to do that, which I have behind me here. The first thing I cut was a side window. The material is cast acrylic, which This is what's going to allow you We just finished painted. The next piece I love re-imagining the logos so I found a recreation of the PS2's font Eventually, I landed on the PSZ. After and an exhaust grill that will slot with all the pieces cut and sanded, to seal the wood and also to bring out But I wasn't done just yet. oh man, that looks really cool. But you know what because if you remember, the original PS2 It actually had color to it. So in order to bring that color I mixed up a little bit of everybody's But don't worry, I'm to match the colors I opened it up on my phone and then mixed in low key bumps of various that I was looking for. Maybe a little darker. Then using a syringe, I mainlined the epoxy The tricky part here was getting the But with enough agitation, gradient. Finally, I sanded everything down reapplied my finish, and then headed home So while We were working away in the shop. The 3D printers have also been very busy, we now have everything So this main piece right here is going to either go inside of it And it's printed in Creality's hyper PLA, just their PLA that's been alloyed that make it stronger, more flexible, Now, before we can start putting stuff in here, we have to This is the power switch bracket, and it just gives me a convenient place This clips on here Next is the fan bracket. This suspends so that it can cool and it just screws And then finally, we've got this bracket So now let's put it all together. First, the Usb-C power port goes here. Then the retro gem get screwed into place And the wifi antenna gets mounted Then we can lower the motherboard in And now we're ready in order to make it more compact. It just slides back in here to the back of the case so that I can easily remove it Now let's break out the glue The first one drops in here The PSZ panel goes I also added some little feet for what it is The exhaust grille slots in here and then the acrylic panel slots to attach the side panel to the main case. I added a series of magnets to both sides just clicks in place, Now, before we get into the testing, that I want to add on top of this project. You guys know me, So I went and picked up And the fun thing about this Sony controllers with your PS2. And yeah, I know what you're thinking. Sony never made a wireless controller for the PS3, PS4 and PS5. So this allows you to use one of these this thing booted So here's the Free McBoot interface. And it's basically just a modified version more options added here. You can load up homebrew software, also has some diagnostic software of other fun tools that let you probe But I know most of to see what these upscaled games look like So let's boot up a game because this is going to show the absolute the system can do. by tapping these buttons right here. we can bring up the retrogem menu and here we can adjust everything from the resolution which by the way, goes all the way up to 1440P you can also adjust the aspect ratio as well as the magnification you can also inject HDR into the image which to my eye, looks really good at least in the Hybrid Log Gamma Mode it looks pretty trash in HDR10 now I bet a bunch of you are probably saying oh my god, look at all the jaggies on screen the aliasing is so bad in 4k and that is why there's a smoothing layer built into the retrogem so this gives you a light layer of anti aliasing across the entire image So here are And here's what the original RCA output as you can see, Not only do but the colors are also more vibrant. You've got brighter brights, deeper improvements because Gran Turismo four supports However, most PlayStation two titles I won't go into too much depth here, they would only render and then they would alternate those lines This is called interlacing. However, modern displays They just display all the lines, output from the PS2 look kind of weird. So I've got Final Fantasy ten loaded up That's because the retrogem If we go through the menus here, we can actually change the algorithm So. Well, the image is still you start to move around a bit, well, You get these interlacing artifacts. At first, I was pretty bummed about this we can actually fix that. if we go back to the main menu. There's this program here called GSM. And here we can actually force image. Regardless of whether or not and then if we go back into Final Fantasy This doesn't work with every game, but it does work So that is my modernized PlayStation two. And well, I still think that I could have done it So let's talk postmortem analysis. First up, I missed a good opportunity to replace Those have a tendency to die So its good preventative maintenance to do if you've already got the machine Second, volts kind of ruins the whole point The higher voltage is causing it to over spin and run a lot louder So what I'm going to do is replace this with a 12 volt fan And then finally, I kind of wish I resin and would have made the final result unfortunately for me though, this thing would have fit on my resin So if any of you guys in jumbo sized resin 3D printer, And on that note, I'm done. I'll see you guys in the next video, peace Wait, hold that thought. I have one I salvaged the rotating PlayStation logo so no matter which orientation I can put the PlayStation logo All right. See you for real.