- See this And this That my friend is parkour. We scoured the entire internet and found the most epic - I think parkour is live video games, IRL. - Hm-mmm - That was pretty gnarly flipped. - His back is to the That's a big fall. - There's no way he can make it up that. This is like Nathan Drake stuff. The flip was unnecessary Yo. Wow - Nice. - Does that not hurt? - Imagine chasing this guy. - Yeah, there's no way you can get him. He should be like a stunt Or actually he should - He is an action movie. - Nobody can stop him. Look at this. He just did a spinning flip over that gap. - What is he even doing? I don't know what that was. - He's just break dancing now. This is very Assassins Creed. Can we go here and like do this? This looks so fun. - We just into the one. - What a, that's like five flips. Minus like three. Also, Red Bull. I hope he doesn't get hurt. - Red Bull sponsors some Why doesn't Red Bulls sponsor They could sponsor us watching. - Brought you by Red - You want us to get down? - Do you want us to get down? Can you leave? - All right, we'll get down. - We'll get down. - They're just taking the long way down. - They look like Teenage - Minus the turtles. This looks so much fun, I'm not gonna lie. - Oh! - Whoa, look at the - Yo imagine if he missed that jump and that guard just tackled him. - The thing is with all the music and the shots, this looks so cool but if you were watching it would just look like a - Oh. - That's a huge gap. - I think that is a good time to say, do not try this at home or other people's homes, or just anywhere. - Don't do it anywhere. You know what somebody should do? They should make a VR parkour so that way you can try this - I wonder if they like pre - Nah, they look like they're just kind of making it up as they go. Right? Oh, look at, it's running on fences. Yo, look at the slide. - That's cool. Yo, why can't me, you and - Because I have a child. Look at that. There's no way we could do that. Oh, yeah. Look at the ground, bro. There were arrows on the ground telling them which way to go. They had this route like planned. - Agh. - He trusted them. - He's the Chandler of the group. - Yeah, that was really dope. - Oh, you know it's doing, - Wait - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait - He has a GoPro in his mouth. - He was holding the GoPro with his teeth. This guy's a stud. - If he doesn't jump out of his window in the next - 5, 4, 3, 2. - Well, that's, that was suffice. Oh, I thought he was - Oh wait here he goes. - Yo. - Thanks, dad. - This is like how anime - I mean, opening the - I think he only saved but it looked cooler. - This dude is like, dream but IRL. - Yo. - No way, that's safe. - Could have just went around that. Oh, is that your bike? - That is the bike. Thank goodness he flipped over the rack. - Whoa, that's pretty cool. You couldn't do that. - I mean, no. I don't know why I'd want to do it. - That's a flex. - True. - Like some men gotta buy Gucci to flex. This guy just ride bikes. This guy just breathe. Oh, no, it's locked. We gotta find a really epic way to get in. It's Saturday. - Oh. It's Saturday. School doesn't happen on Saturdays. - Funny. Even though he checked his phone and it says the date on it, on your phone. - Oh, all he saw was a GoPro in his mouth. Remember - Spiderman parkour, let's go. - All right This one's gonna be epic. - Oh, it's a guy with Web shooter. Oh, he forgot his web shooter. - Oh, wow. Nice, nice that was cool. Imagine somebodies doing this. They don't seem to be driving very fast. - Don't, oh, he should have jumped on it. - The real spider-man You're a phony. You're a fraud. - He's like, okay, so the car's turning. Let me just take 10 minutes to get down this building and I'll - The car's like, are you coming, man? - The random flips are - Oh, look at this shot. Oh, yeah. That'll help you speed up. - I guarantee they're at the Thank you for flipping. - Yes, let's go. - Oh, not green screened whatsoever. Oh. Oh. - Whoa. - That was Connor McGregor. - Thank you guys for watching the video. - No problem. - Whoa, they're doing it in the desert. - Wait, are they blindfolded? - I think they might There's no way they're blindfolded. - This is cool. Chris we need to get new friends. - We are each other's friends. Does that mean we need to not be friends? - Starting by getting rid of each other? - Right, I'm gonna go running around in the desert. - All I'm saying is you, asked me to go running in - Look, I'm not that kind of guy. I'm more of that kind of sit on the couch and watch anime kind of guy. - I wanna become this kind - You wanna watch people Once you got out here you'd be like, all right guys, slow down. - I'd be like, I'm getting sun burnt. - Guys, my floppy hat keeps blowing off, we're running too fast - They look like Narco. - Yeah, this does look very anime. - That's dangerous. We kind off of did this - We did. - I tried to slide down a mountain and then my feet got stuck and I flipped. - Yo, this guy's just making - Yeah, just keep going through it. Look at the courage, he Jumped into that. Didn't care the. - Balls on this man. - Yo, I hope my wife These guys are so much cooler than me. That's a Beaut.. I learned what that is, 'cause of cars. It looks less epic when - They're like, oh my gosh. That's that epic. These Johns are crazy. He jumped over them. Now they just looked dumb. God that's a Tomahawk. - I hope they picked it up. - Yeah. Go get your Tomahawk. Yeah, just leave that out there. All Right we're gonna Thank you so much for watching.