Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we lives of those who lived to entertain us, Not all stars are human. Some of our fours, have fur, and never speak a word. animal variety, stay tuned, From our very first episode animals have Hollywood Graveyard. Cawing crows opened Lawn deer closed it out. Since then we probably full grown geese by now. Turtles coyotes at Eden, Rose Hills, and Grand View. There was a cat at Trinity in New York, and even a lawn mowing donkey and a fox Jack Sparrow flower pot in a mausoleum? But the cemetery was perhaps the most the grounds has got to be Hollywood and those iconic peacocks all Hollywood Forever is also home to dozens Forever cats are quite skittish, but if the cemetery there's a chance you'll Hollywood Forever animals, a black cat can often be seen lounging on Cecil B A true Hollywood cat. Perhaps someday he'll and be discovered, as was the cat improvised on the spot when Francis Ford Today animals graduate from their supporting the stars. Names like Lassie and Toto as do the name's Marilyn Monroe and famous animals but also famous pets - the So here's to our beloved unconditionally, give us companionship in Or watch over us after we're gone. Alter Ego, an intimate and trusted friend. Cimetiere des Chiens. This domestic animal of the Seine River and is believed to be of the modern era. In our exploration of with one of Hollywood's very first who we find resting here. He was a male German star during the silent era. discovered as a puppy in a bombed-out an American serviceman named Lee Duncan. the brink of death. The squadron saved puppies back home with him to California seeing the success of another famous Duncan was convinced Rin Tin Tin could break in 1922's The Man from Hell's after that Rin Tin Tin would be the over two dozen of them, becoming one of the or four legs. Not only did Rin Tin Tin save many of his He's also credited for saving a struggling little film studio called After his death in 1932 Duncan on his property, but later arranged to origin and buried here in the pet tombstone translates as: From gay Paris, to Tinseltown - we're back Our next animal star is one certainly no video about famous animal to Toto, a Cairn Terrier. Her original name after her best-known role as Dorothy's through Oz in the 1939 adaptation of The &quot;Toto... I have a feeling we're We must be over the Toto could be seen in around 20 other Shirley Temple, Bad Little Angel, and The her owner's ranch in Studio City When little Toto died in 1945 at property. When the Ventura Freeway came to North Hollywood but the construction resting place. This is the approximate resting place in Studio City where In 2010 a campaign was undertaken by fans and monument to Toto placed here at Toto's owner and trainer, Carl Spitz, training, developing a method of silent He owned and trained other animal actors After his death in 1976 he was laid to the Great Mausoleum of Forest Lawn When thinking of legendary cinema canines like another four-legged star quickly a brave and loyal collie named We're at Valhalla Cemetery in North eternal love. Here we find the grave of In 1940 a young collie named Pal was of chasing motorcycles. He was unable to payment owed, Weatherwax was In 1943 MGM began work on hiring their own in-house struggled in river scene, Weatherwax stepped in, impressing the director who Lassie swam out.&quot; From then on Pal was Lassie, with the other dog. &quot;Lassie is the story pretentious picture or an epic; it is too high-sounding adjectives.&quot; Following his debut films, which were immensely popular, as recognized animal actor of the era. Pal age of eighteen. Weatherwax was companion, laying him to rest in a of here in Sand Canyon, visiting the Rudd Weatherwax would train all subsequent series which ran for 19 seasons. He also would star as Asta in the Thin Man Ken Weatherwax who played Pugsley on the adjacent mausoleum. Rudd often worked with stars like Asta and Lassie. We find his section of Forest Lawn Glendale. Frank named Spike, better known as Old Yeller Spike would appear in other films like Mickey Mouse Club. was also laid to rest on the Weatherwax During the Golden Age of film and trained animal actor scene: We're at Forest Lawn Hollywood where we find the grave of a number of trainer, Frank Inn. Early in his career Inn training stars like Lassie and Asta. He trainer training and handling some of the 70s. He kept the ashes of many of his was his wish that they be buried with their urns placed into his casket before the rest here with Inn include one of the Higgins, better known as Benji. Higgins also played the dog on Petticoat Also here is Orangey the cat, from &quot;Is he alright?&quot; &quot;Sure, he's okay. Aren't you, cat? Poor ol' cat. Poor slob. Poor slob without a name.&quot; He has a number of other including Rhubarb, only cat to win two PATSY Awards, which star of the year - the animal equivalent animals that Frank Inn worked with was from Green Acres. &quot;What does he want?&quot; &quot;He wants to know if you'll buy &quot;Why should I buy him any &quot;Oink oink oink.&quot; &quot;He says because you're rich, Arnold also won a number of Frank and his animals would pull in From the glitz and glamor of Los Angeles to a quiet we're in Tahlequah on the Snodgrass farm. talking horse is laid to rest. name was Bamboo Harvester. Mister Ed for six seasons. &quot;Hello I'm Mister Ed.&quot; Bamboo Harvester retired the show ended in 1966, and died a few accounts of the beloved horse's final some of the confusion stemming from the was also unofficially known as Mister Ed. here on the Snodgrass farm, with this in 1990. May his memory live long. As for the voice of Mister Ed? Well that was B-Western actor Allan &quot;Rocky&quot; Lane, buried In Western cinema oft times the cowboy star as the cowboy himself. The Lone Evans had Trigger and Buttermilk, and We're at the William S Hart Park in western heritage and one of its very He was the preeminent Western star of the rugged portrayal of the cowboy hero This 265-acre Newhall area ranch was Hart's home, his death, for the benefit of the public. rest his beloved sidekick and on-screen Pinto gelding who could do and did do Western film horse to be known and His popularity sometimes rivaled Hart, Fritz retired after filming the movie happily in retirement with William Hart Fritz was laid to rest beneath this Hart loved all his animals and gave them we're rest eleven of Hart's dogs. Especially dear to him were his Great And as for William S Hart, we found his grave We're in northwestern Pennsylvania now, where we find the final resting place of If you saw our Viewers Special you'll clarification needs to be made. There Bonzo: the first was a female chimp named Reagan in 1951's Bedtime for Bonzo. fire in Los Angeles in 1951, so for the another chimp was cast as Bonzo. &quot;I have something special for you today, How does that strike you?' This Bonzo would later this grave is that of the second Bonzo circus was passing through Pennsylvania. Where do the pets of celebrities go To a pet cemetery of course. &quot;Well sometimes, dead is better.&quot; No, not Pet Sematary, pet We're in Gardena, about 20 minutes south It was founded in 1948 and is home to some of Hollywood stars from Groucho Marx to some of them. This is the westernmost section Here lies Mr. Pep, the dog, a Nat King Cole was one of the great jazz century, as well as the television star - his own nationwide TV show. Cole is laid a talented singer, in the Freedom Given the years it's likely that Mr. Pep Cole, who was born in 1950. Continuing south just past a tree are two dogs named Champ II and Cigar. These beloved puppies Edward G Robinson. Fans of classic crime dramas gangsters and tough guys and films like Robinson died in 1973 and is entombed in a mausoleum Just a few spaces away under a Lewis's dogs. Jerry Lewis was one of film he partnered with crooner Dean Martin as hilarious comedies like The Nutty many of his beloved pooches rest here. here's Pepe, Figaro, Chipper and Caesar, Skipper, Runty, Ladybug, JoJo, and Doodles. As for Lewis himself, he the age of 91. Back to the pathway left, we find the pets of Bobby Troup and Bobby Troup. With some of the pets we'll cat or a dog. Bobby Troup was a musician, Route 66,&quot; and an actor on the 70s show also his wife, Julie London, whose pet Julie London was also a musician known &quot;Cry Me a River.&quot; We visited the resting first video, here in the courts of While there are certainly more pet But we've got one more stop The largest and most popular pet cemetery in the LA area is the Los about 30 minutes west of Hollywood. Like legends have laid their cherished in tiny graves and miniature crypts. in these grounds. The cemetery was veterinarian Dr. Eugene Jones, who bought form the region's first pet cemetery. watched over by the patron saint of Passing through the gates into the cemetery Bridge on the right. It tells of a bridge Rainbow Bridge. After a pet dies it grass just this side of the Rainbow their special person to join them. After pet, who has been waiting for us there. Bridge into heaven, We'll begin our tour here left of the Earlier we visited a number of here we'll find a few more, including this legendary equine, He was the horse of TV's most popular Topper would also team up with Hoppy in And when Hopalong Cassidy made fans were often just as excited to see Hopalong Cassidy was played by William Boyd who Bradley, an actress, in a sanctuary of Forest Long Glendale. Topper died in 1961 Just to the right are a number of pets of Here are Snooks and Sugar. Chief Thundercloud was a western film portray Tonto, the lone Ranger's Native Chief Thundercloud, whose real name was Victor character actor in films and television age 56. He was laid to rest here in the Further right we find two of Chief In the 1930s Chief Thundercloud lent out his Warner Bros Westerns. Smoke would horse, and is remembered as a clever and stunts. And next to Smoke is another would play Tonto's horse, Scout, in films other Western films through the A little further right we find a number actress in the 20s and 30s known for Empress, and her Oscar-nominated role in Rogers wife in a number of films, like age 86 Louise was entombed in the Great Mausoleum. some of her pets who rest here: Wee Wong, Choggie, Kickan, Bubbie, a gallant little soldier, and Tagalong. One of the biggest stars here was the This is Kabar, Rudolph Valentino's faithful dog. Young Kabar, a Doberman, was in 1922. Valentino grew very fond of the everywhere, and even sleep in the same Valentino's last trip east in 1926 Kabar film star of movies like The Sheik, would after surgery for appendicitis time of Valentino's death, Kabar, who howls, and in the years following his miles and search his lost friend. He died, many believe, 1929, at just six years old. Left of here Forget-Me-Not Corner. Here we find a few comedy duo, Abbott and Costello, with Lou the duo, which began on radio in the late and a TV show. Their most popular skit was &quot;Who's on first, What's on second, &quot;You know the guys' names on - &quot;Well go ahead, who's on first?&quot; - &quot;I mean the guy's name.&quot; - &quot;The guy playing first.&quot; - &quot;The guy playing first base.&quot; &quot;The guy on first base.&quot; &quot;Who is on first.&quot; &quot;Whaddaya asking me for? I don't know!&quot; Bud Abbott died in 1974 and was cremated. His pets who rest here are: Wakie, Tiny, and Bitsy. Up and to the right a few spaces fellow belonged to funny man Morey certainly manifest in naming his dog Morey is remembered for playing 1960s. He's laid to rest in the courts of Continuing up and to the right we the lesser-known members of Hollywood's little cat of actor Lionel Barrymore, who It's a Wonderful Life, and his A Free Soul. He was the great uncle of Drew age 76 he was entombed at the mausoleum Let's continue on up the hill to find Muggins, an Irish Setter Jimmy Durante, lovingly known as the actor known for his distinctive gravel personalities of the 20s through the 70s. Cross Cemetery in Los Angeles. Proceeding back to the south we find a big-band music will recognize the name trumpet-playing bandleader in the 30s Harry James shared the affections of may have been the one and only Betty Up the hill just a little further we find Droopy, a wonderful little pup a cocker spaniel. The little pup died Bogart and the two became co-parents of for her love of her dogs throughout her left millions to her last dog, Sophie, in 2014 she was cremated, the location of At the top of the hill surrounded by trees we find a pup named Little Rascals series you'll remember his eye. terrier named Pal the wonder dog. When replace by one of his offspring &quot;Don't worry Petey, I ain't gonna eat you up.&quot; This Petey had a circle drawn around his which was mostly natural, was around the Gang shorts until 1932, when a number of until the series ended. He lived to the Heading back toward the north we find one of the most exotic animals Tawny is often touted by various sources it's unclear in what capacity. If you've remember the opening logo with the lion, According to MGM's history of the logo, named Slats. In the decades that followed Jackie, Tanner, George, There would also be two unofficial color tests, named Coffee and Telly. There that fits the 1918 to 1940 timeframe. New Jersey, and the hide of one of the McPherson Museum in Kansas, though they Now this is not to say that reports of Lions in Hollywood were often hired out appearances, etc. Not to mention roles We just can't say with any may have played. Back down the hill Valentino, this one the dog named Bunky. of Rudolph Valentino. Though their would retain the name Valentino for the the silent era into the 50s, though her marriage to Valentino. After her death in at Holy Cross Cemetery next to her Let's cross over to the named Room 8, not a Hollywood star but unofficial mascot of Elysian Heights window of room eight. There he became an children. He would disappear during the years on the first day of school. reporters and cameras waiting for his feline in America at that time, the children's book. I'll post the full text description so that you can read it. Let's head over to loving memories section. Here we find Angel Spelling, the dog of on Beverly Hills 90210. Given the years Let's make our way now up the hill This miniature pet mausoleum and restored nonprofit called SOPHIE. As Calabasas cemetery became threatened by the in the 1970s. SOPHIE, which stands for formed and raised the money to buy and lobbied for protective legislation, under California state law. We didn't find any animal stars within follow this brick pathway near the Sandler's first son, an English bulldog in the 2002 short film A Day With the Sandler's wedding in 2003. Meatball's dad Days after Meatball's untimely death of a carry his collar down the red carpet This Memorial brick was later placed And that concludes our tour. Who are the animal stars in your sky? Let us know in the comments below, and be sure to like, share, and subscribe for Thanks for watching! We'll see you this side of the One of the charming aspects of is reading the unique and sometimes humorous names and epitaphs that people Oh man, Mrs. Santa Claus. Not Santa Claus too! &quot;There goes Christmas.&quot; Hey, I finally saw a ghost in a cemetery. My favorite cookie. Oh! Can't argue with that!