- The modern assumption of regenerative medicine So if you have a gene regulatory network or a pathway, the only way you're gonna get it to do something different is But if you're willing that there are other competencies, you might find out that giving stimuli to those tissues to get them to learn certain associations, and change their preferences and change their set points into complex, highly almost like a telescope into another space to which we So this is the opportunity before us. If we were able to exactly what it is that we would have the solution for birth defects, lost organs of various kinds and limbs. We could reprogram tumors back to normal. So all of this would be with the collective intelligence of cells. And so, the technology of the future is going to look and a lot more like a or even a kind of I'm Mike Levin and I'm at Tufts University. I'm also at the Wyss Institute at Harvard, and my group works on a variety of problems in natural, artificial, We are very used to having a very particular outcome. Acorns make oak trees, frog eggs make frogs. When you ask about why a certain creature the answer is, &quot;Well, the genome,&quot; then that's what determines it. But one of the amazing that around that standard a latent space of and diverse and very hard to guess at. So for example, oak leaves are and you might look at those cells and say, &quot;Okay, so the genome of the oak, it has the information that enables them to make But if prompted by a parasite, such as a wasp embryo, in fact, these same cells can make a large, round, spiky, red And these come in and you you would've never known that a shape like that is within the possibility It is not a set of pushes and pulls that forces the chemistry to go a particular way. It is a set of signals that literally change the perception and the memory of that cellular system about what to do next. Almost every aspect of biomedical needs, all of these things boil down How do we convince a group of cells to build a nice, healthy organ? We may not want to, in fact, we're not going to of the gene expression, all of the cells, all the stem cell activity towards complex states that For example, regrow somebody's limb, or provide new eyes or normalize a tumor. But, if we can take advantage of cells that are already of problems, then we have a great ability to achieve large-scale for us to micromanage. So I give a simple example: The frog, which is an animal that normally does not regenerate its legs as an adult, but what we've discovered is that actually we can give those cells down to the path of And it's not because we or where the leg goes, or how many toes the none of that. What we did was to communicate to those cells a simple prompt that causes them to take on the path of going in morphous space, of moving from that injured And so, all of the tools of neuroscience, of behavioral science, they all work in other spaces- in morphological spaces And so this is now the So some of our recent work we produce something called a 'Xenobot.' It's a named after a Xenopus Laevis, is the name of the frog that we used, and &quot;bot&quot; because we think At the simplest level, a Xenobot is what happens off of an early frog embryo. You take it away from all and all the hacking that cells to have this kind of on the outer surface of the tadpole. And you, you ask them, &quot;Well, what do you wanna do now that you're not being controlled And what they do is self-assemble into this round little thing that starts to move around on its own. It rose against the water of the Petri dish that they're sitting on. But it also does things like Another example, one of the amazing things that they can do, is they do something called So remember that we've made it impossible for these things to reproduce on their own because they're just skin. There's no neurons. None of the rest of the for frog-style reproduction are there. But if you provide them so basically loose skin what they do is they run around and they collect those and they sort of shape the little piles and make a little snowball out of them. That little ball matures into the next generation of Xenobot. And guess what it starts to do? It does exactly the same thing. It runs around collecting more cells and makes the next generation of Xenobot. This is basically Von Neumann's dream of a robot that goes in the environment and And none of this was obvious at all from what we know about and their genome. And so we're just of what they're capable of. We're actively researching and remember and what and can they learn and And so one answer to what is a Xenobot is it's a biorobotics platform of the self-assembling properties of frog skin cells to make It's not just that you synthetic living machines that do specific things, it's actually a sandbox in which you can learn the rules of morphogenesis; you can learn to prompt the system and actually understand And so I think that the Xenobots are of a huge option space of novel bodies, novel minds that are going to be with us in the coming decades. Just that first step into that world of truly diverse intelligence. Anytime a technology there is a reaction from people which is basically, &quot;Everything is fine.&quot; And what we need to do is make sure that these scientists don't screw it up. And I'm not even a clinician, but I'm here to tell you from people with the most Things are not fine. I consider it to be an absolute of us in the community to so that we can provide a for everybody on Earth. We think very carefully about the ethics of all of these things, but that calculus is not The calculus is what is already wrong if you do nothing.