This is what hundreds of world plays on. It's a This is the chip that's For nearly 30 years. Nvidia's chips have been what's possible in graphics market since it first graphics processing unit Now its chips are powering different. ChatGPT has started a very He thinks it's the most the iPhone. Venture capital interest in All of us working in this that at some point the understand the importance And it's it's actually starting to happen. As the engine behind large ChatGPT, Nvidia is finally investment in AI, even as the shadow of U.S.-China in the chip shortage that's But the California-based Taiwan Semiconductor make nearly all its chips, The biggest risk is really and the potential impact to That's, if I'm a that's really the only night. This isn't the first time teetering on the leading emerging market. It's neared bankruptcy a history when founder and company on impossible Every company makes mistakes And some of them, some of peril. Especially in the small and and we're up companies and we're trying technology. We sat down with Huang at headquarters to find out latest reinvention and got all the ways it powers far gaming. Now one of the world's top Nvidia is one of the rare 30 years in, still has its I delivered the first one of supercomputer to OpenAI 60-year-old Jensen Huang, a the Year and one of Time's 2021, immigrated to the U.S from Taiwan as a kid and Oregon State and Stanford. In the early 90s, Huang met Malachowsky and Curtis talked about dreams of graphics, the kind made Jurassic Park at the time. If you go back 30 years, at was just starting and there about what is the future of software be run. And there was a large camp believed that CPU or the best way to go. And it was the best way to We felt, however, that applications that wouldn't acceleration. The friends launched Nvidia California, in 1993. The name was inspired by N for next version and envy. They hoped to speed everyone would be green At more than 80% of business remains GPUs. Typically sold as cards that motherboard, they power - to central companies like AMD and You know, they were one that time. They are the actually, who really worked very well with the This is not a chip This is a business of end. But at the start, its future In the beginning there applications for it, chose one particular run. It was computer to video games. Now Nvidia is known for Hollywood with rapid Nvidia designed its first chip in 1997. Designed, not manufactured, to making Nvidia a fabless capital expenditure way extraordinary expense of On behalf of all of us, Thank you. Nvidia today wouldn't be here if thousand fabless wouldn't be here if not for TSMC did. In 1999, after laying off nearly going bankrupt to do claims was the world's GeForce 256. It was the first that allowed custom shading By 2000, Nvidia was the for Microsoft's first Xbox. Microsoft and the Xbox that we invented this thing shader, and it defines how today. Nvidia went public in 1999 flat until demand went pandemic. In 2006, it called CUDA that would center of the AI boom. It's essentially a programing model that work, from serial to Parallel computing is: let all at the same time using Right? So it's the army where you have one do things very well, but army of thousands of take that problem and do it So it's a very different Nvidia's big steps haven't direction. In the early moves into smartphones with processors. You know, they quickly market wasn't for them, so . In 2020, Nvidia closed a to acquire data center chip But just last year, Nvidia bid to acquire Arm, citing challenges. Arm is a major licensing its signature Arm iPhones and iPads, Amazon carmakers. Despite some setbacks, today employees, a newly built in Santa Clara, California, for far more than just Think data centers, cloud prominently, AI. We're in every cloud made by And then all of a sudden that wasn't possible before More than a decade ago, the engine behind AlexNet, Bang moment. It was a new, network that obliterated prominent image recognition Turns out the same parallel lifelike graphics is also where a computer learns by on a programmer's code. We had the good wisdom to go it. We saw early on, about this way of doing software we changed the company from the top and sideways. Every chip that we made was intelligence. Bryan Catanzaro was the Nvidia's deep learning team Now it's 50 people and For ten years, Wall Street making this investment and And they valued it at $0 in And it wasn't until around came out, that all of a this is a dramatically computer programs and it speedups that then yield artificial intelligence. So what are some real world AI? Healthcare is one big Think far faster drug that takes hours instead of We were able to achieve the genomic sequencing diagnose these patients and patients in the trial to A 13-year-old boy who's and then also a was having epileptic prescribe an anti-seizure And then there's art powered Anadol's creations that And when crypto started to the coveted tool for mining Which is not really a has created, you know, crypto mining has been a So gaming cards go out of then when the crypto mining a big crash on the gaming Although Nvidia did create a mining, it didn't stop gaming GPUs, sending prices And although that shortage sticker shock among some its new 40-series GPUs far generation. Now there's too recently reported quarterly from the year before. But Nvidia still beat recent earnings report, tech giants like Microsoft centers with thousands of used to train large ChatGPT. When we ship them, we don't We ship them in packs of With a suggested price of Nvidia's DGX A100 server that work together to insanely fast and uncannily ChatGPT. I have been trained on a which allows me to on a wide range of topics. Companies scrambling to publicly boasting about how Microsoft, for example, It's very easy to use their computing capacity. And once you add that computing capacity is the valley right now. And the next generation up already started to ship. Some uses for generative AI and instant text-to-image But this is also the tech some say dangerous deepfake Are there any ways that against some of these have or building in Yes, I think the safeguards industry about how AI is extraordinarily important. We're trying to find ways that we can know if a video real world or virtually. Similarly for text and But being at the center of doesn't make Nvidia immune In October, the U.S. introduced sweeping new leading edge AI chips to A100. About a quarter of mainland China. How do you new export controls? Well Nvidia's technology is reflection of the that we make. The first comply with the turbulent, you know, month upside down to re-engineer it's compliant with the able to serve the have in China. We're able China with the regulated support them. But perhaps an even bigger is its dependance on TSMC There's two issues. One, will China take over point? And two, is there a to TSMC? And as of right now, Intel get there. And you know, And we will see. And this is not just an This is a risk for AMD, for This is a big reason why the passed the Chips Act last billion to incentivize chip U.S. soil. Now TSMC is build two chip fabrication The fact of the matter is company and the world of them. It is imperative them to also invest in And will you be moving any Arizona? Oh, absolutely. We'll use Yeah. And then there's the chip As it largely comes to a with demand, some types of price slump. But for means demand for its AI least for now. See, the biggest question ahead? Because their competitors also. Microsoft can try and internally. Amazon and these things internally. Tesla and Apple are chips, too. But Jensen says The amount of power that the center will grow. And you it's growing very quickly the world. While AI and ChatGPT have for Nvidia, it's far from And we take that model and and that's a self-driving And we take that computer that's a little robot Like the kind that's used at That's right. Amazon and robots in their warehouses of the massive spaces and the flow of millions of Driving units like these in powered by the Tegra chips mobile phones. Now they're biggest e-commerce chips were also used in 2019. Now Tesla uses its making autonomous driving like Mercedes-Benz. So we call it Nvidia Drive. And basically Nvidia D whether you want to use it driving for your emergency pre-collision warning or cruise control, all the way doing everything, driving any type of weather. Nvidia is also trying to different arena, releasing Grace. What do you say to focus entirely on the core Well, if not for all of our simulation, if not for all artificial intelligence, GeForce RTX would not have Released in 2018, RTX is graphics with a new tracing. For us to take computer the next level, we had to ourselves, basically light and simulate AI. And so we compute one imagine with AI the other It's really quite amazing. Imagine a jigsaw puzzle and pieces and somehow the AI Ray tracing is used in Cyberpunk 2077, Fortnite And Nvidia Geforce GPUs in streaming of 1500-plus It's also part of what modeling of how objects situations. Think climate drive tech that's informed virtual roads. It's all the Omniverse, what Huang next big bet. We have 700-plus customers the car industry to turbine plants. And so I'm progress there. And it single greatest container technology: computer intelligence, robotics and one. I have great hopes for