(wind whistles faintly) - Well, I hate to This is the Colorado River, at least what's left of it. Where did all the water go? (melancholy orchestral music) (light ethereal music) This feels like Whew. (exhales) Whew. It's time to solve the case. Who killed the Colorado River? (light electronic music) The Colorado River. For centuries, it's of the American Southwest, carving canyons and bringing A river so vast, it Olympic-sized swimming Born in the snow-capped the Colorado River traces through five U.S. states, carving its way of rugged Western landscape, before emptying into the At least that's how This is the delta where the or rather, what's left of it. Since the early 1960s, one of America's great waterways almost never actually - Right now, this is of the Colorado River. It used to be a forest, and if you look back you'll reach eventually the and the upper Gulf - Where this river used to flow. - It used to flow and create another great estuarine ecosystems and many species which no longer exists. - [Joe] The Colorado is part The Yellow River in More and more rivers around before they reach their Rivers flow to the sea. That's their whole deal. What happened? - Well, we happened. - So here's the problem. In recent times, around four flow through the Colorado but we are allowed to take out around five trillion Now, I'm no mathematician, So, where is it all going? Well to solve this mystery, we need to go on a and our first stop Representatives from seven in a Santa Fe mountain retreat to divvy up the The result was the an agreement for who Their goal was clear, help settlers gain a foothold through irrigation In doing so, they were Notably absent from despite sharing this river and not a single representative from the Native American tribes who have long called And almost no consideration or the ecosystems and Here's the thing. They overestimated and ignored warnings about The Colorado Compact divvied up 15 million acre feet based on an assumed annual flow of 16.4 million acre feet. Just one problem. The river's actual has averaged just 12.4 leading to a situation where than the river can So the Colorado Compact and more of a disaster plan. That's our first suspect, But the plot thickens. It's time to meet (soft somber music) This is the Imperial It wasn't the first, and it Between 1905 and 1970, 15 major dams were built These river fortresses hydroelectricity, and a steady But, all this control These dams have not only the river's course, they have But more significantly, evaporates every year That's a lot of water in a region where every The vast surface area exposes more water to the air Plus the still water gives the sun plenty of time unlike in a fast-moving river. (dark strident music) Okay, we've got outdated but this water mystery It's time to meet (light electronic music) This may look like at an amusement and honestly, right now But this is actually in &quot;Who Killed the the Central Arizona Project. Picture this, a stretching over 330 miles, gulping down nearly one from the Colorado River. This thirst quenching marvel sucking up water on behalf which is more than holding more than who are thirsty, and so are their lawns And like a straw, this No, it's pushed uphill climbing nearly 3,000 That's two-and-a-half stacked on top of each other. And Arizona's not the only ones sipping from this Los Angeles, and Salt Lake City are all In fact, cities and industry are responsible of all the water consumed You might think that living in and around in North America would cause but apparently this All right, we've seen are siphoning off this river, but there's more to this story. I think our next stop (light pensive music) (door closes) This oasis in the desert is one of many wetland It is beautiful, but it's Wetlands like this are of flora and fauna. They prove there's than just quenching But these lush green oases are Believe it or not, of all water consumed gets taken up by these Nature, it turns out, That's a lot of water, but these wetlands are of the Colorado River. These natural areas are like They're flood control experts, soaking up excess They also purify the and they are biodiversity as well as mammals So while these wetlands they are working overtime to keep the whole So we've seen how cities, are draining the Colorado River, but we are about to meet of water consumption, our number one most wanted when it comes to And it might make about what's on your plate. (light contemporary music) Welcome to the Imperial our prime suspect in the case of the vanishing Colorado River. Well, it's not just but what happens here of how agriculture, at least is drinking our rivers dry. These green seas in the gulp down 52% of the That's right, more than goes to agriculture. Now, you might be thinking, we're looking at destined for your dinner table, but here's the twist. Most of what you're seeing This is alfalfa, one of the and this is not This is for feeding cows. We are using most of to essentially grow And about 20% of this to places like the So in essence, we're river water resources, and exporting them in And this isn't just it's also about a use it or Farmers who don't use risk losing those So we end up with like flood irrigation, where fields are just to ensure those It incentivizes whether it's needed or not. In a region where water's this outdated policy is full blast in the And all that wasted water Exhibit A, the Salton Sea. This massive body of water it should be a dry lake bed, but instead it's filled from the Colorado River. So who killed the The truth is there's It's a perfect storm of urban development, and of course, our prime So it's no wonder that by the time the Colorado it's nearly dry. But, this story is not over. There are some bright Back on the Mexican today we see dry, cracked earth where there was once that supported rich marshlands But a dedicated team of has been working hard to to what they once were. Through binational agreements, they've secured regular water where this river once This careful management to areas once thought lost. - So if you are outside in or dry landscape like It's really dry, no vegetation, and when you come here, you feel really different. It's a fresh place. You can hear the birds, you can smell flowers. You can have the Oh, it's amazing. - [Joe] This dramatic a measurable impact - The group of birds of health of the ecosystems, and the health of the So we're monitoring periodically the abundance and the When we compare restored we can see that there and there is 30% more bird - We record and saw a lot of the bobcat, coyote, raccoons. So it's a lot of species - [Joe] The success of is challenging local perceptions about what's possible - The people actually think that no water is the because they have no record - With just few drops of water, you can generate a - [Joe] While the Colorado River still faces these restoration efforts offer a glimmer of - It's been almost 100 doesn't flow here in through the delta. In the desert like this, the life depends of the water. So that's why you can hear it. You put some water and - For me, all this work, all because we are that we lost in the past. It's a river If you do not have that, maybe you miss all the benefits, all the beauty that the Colorado - It's about so much more It's a reminder to reconsider our entire relationship with The Colorado's story And with continued maybe one day the will reach the sea once again. (light orchestral music) Hey, before you go, that our fellow Terra is expanding into a TV show. We just launched &quot;Weathered: on the PBS app and on PBS In it, Maiya May and her to tell the definitive story about our changing and how a better We'll put a link to watch the full episode. But first, here's the trailer. (pensive violin music) (fire crackles) (iceberg crashes) - Our world is transforming and we need to be ready. So join me in the to discover the latest science about our changing and how a better Join me for &quot;Weathered.&quot; (thunder rumbles) - Check out the link And by the way, the PBS to watch &quot;Weathered: along with a ton of Think of the PBS app as It's one of the best from &quot;Nova,&quot; as well as episodes from our like &quot;Eons,&quot; &quot;Be Smart,&quot; &quot;Crash Course,&quot; &quot;Monstrum,&quot; (pensive orchestral music)