- Yo Tanisha, it (record scratching) - [Narrator] Darius and had a simple choice to make. Ignore what the man had Or stay at the party When keeping it real goes wrong. - So I'm Dave, and Sometimes keeping it real We gotta pick our spots. It's good to be real sometimes. It's good to be phony sometimes. Yes, I said it, phony! You think I'm this (beeping) That, son! (audience laughing) Just 'cause I'm on TV. I'm wild! I'll pull my balls I don't care, (audience cheering) If you don't believe ain't the best thing, - [Narrator] Vernon Franklin He was the valedictorian won several the first person in his He got a good job and worked Quickly becoming the in the history of the Ending the cycle of that had plagued his The officers of his the usual Thursday meeting when Frank Murphy, the man made an awkward comment. - Vernon, great job, buddy. You the man! Give me some skin, huh? - [Narrator] Vernon of the people he worked with. Which in his heart of like an Uncle Tom. Though he could have his mentor made, Vernon - Get your mother (beeping) You heard me mother (beeping)! Get your hands outta my face! What do you think this is, man? Just shake my hand like a man. Give me some five on with all this crazy jive? That's bull (beeping). Wanna little soft shoe? Should I chug some All that, nigga. - Hey Vernon, buddy. - Get your mother (beeping) This ain't a game. - This isn't the Vernon I know. - Allow me to My name is Ho. You ain't heard that Rap leads to changes. I used to beat mother Just for walking - Vernon, Vernon, buddy. - You better step the - Excuse me? Thug life! You think this is a game, nigga? (barking) Wu Tang! - [Narrator] Today Vernon on Route 80 in New Jersey. He makes 6.45 an hour even when he's not It's as real as it can be. - A dollar? What am I gonna get I got kids. And that's real. - [Narrator] Vernon a heart warming story - Wu Tang! - [Narrator] Today of when keeping it - People say to me all the time, Dave you got that show but Very good advice. Not always as easy as it seems. Sometimes, folks, keeping - [Narrator] Darius with his girlfriend Darius was almost certain But as they were leaving its ugly head. - Yo, Tanisha it (record scratching) - [Narrator] Darius and had a simple choice to make. Ignore what the man had Or stay at the party - What'd you say, man? Good seeing you? Good seeing you? I don't play that (beeping)! That my girl, nigga! I keep it real! - [Narrator] What is that Chris was a who started trouble just so in street fighting scenarios. What ensued was one of the ever witnessed in the Viewer discretion is advised. - Ah! (smacking) (audience laughing) - [Narrator] Darius fractured his arm, and then Tanisha got involved. - All his talk about was getting on my last nerves. I savored that ass whooping. (audience laughing) - Kick him in ass. (audience laughing) - [Narrator] The tag continued for minutes. Ending when karate expert That night they had As a result of his hospital to move back in - This knucklehead talking I'm gonna keep it real. I want his god damn Been trying to get (beeping) - [Narrator] Darius is - Granny don't! - Well hurry the hell up Unlike you, I'm getting you punk bitch. (audience laughing) - [Narrator] He is that no many should (audience groaning) - Darius, you big dummy. This ain't no show and tell. Take a walk. - Yeah, and get some rubbers. - And get the big ones. - (beeping) Right. (audience laughing) - [Narrator] From most with his girl to getting beat up and moving back with his family. - Granny, don't! - [Narrator] Darius James when keeping it real goes wrong. - We all just gotta be careful. When you're keeping it Reality is hidden for a reason. And now we will show you why. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Brenda Johnson eating popcorn and with her girlfriend. The telephone rang. (ringing phone) - Hello? (dial tone) - [Narrator] Brenda had Ignore the mild rudeness of or keep it real. - (beeping) that! I don't like people - Girl, don't even trip. You bigger than that. - No, I don't like people - [Narrator] But in to do with people Brenda had long suspected of cheating on her. This was the straw that (dialing) - Hello? - Did you just call here, bitch? - Excuse me. - I know you just called here. Don't play dumb with me. Stop (beeping) my man. - I don't know what I dialed the wrong number, okay? - I star sixty-nined You and I both know you - No, I was trying - Oh bitch, please. You a bitch and so is your aunt. (scoffs) Oh no, she did not - Again? - [Narrator] Brenda could - You wanna play, bitch? Let's play. - [Narrator] But she decided into the red. - 'Cause I keeps - [Narrator] Brenda and did a reverse look Not only did she but directions as well. - I'm fittin' to (audience laughing) (breaking glass) Won't be (beeping) (alarm blaring) Take that, you clap - It was a wrong number! - (beeping) That! I don't like people I keeps it real. - I was like, hello? - [Narrator] What is that Janice was borrowing a federal agent. She also didn't a government vehicle a felony in certain cases. This being one of them. After a short trial to six years in federal prison. (funky music) - What's really hood, bitch? - [Narrator] Brenda to establish her Confronted by another she decided then and - All right, bitch, let's (smacking) - [Narrator] The three consecutive life sentences. It turned out they (audience laughing) And as for her boyfriend Jamal. - You wanna talk - [Narrator] He was with her best friend. - I keeps it real. (giggling) Ain't that right, shorty? - That's right. - [Narrator] From eating popcorn in the comfort of her own off of a prison - (beeping) that! I don't like people - [Narrator] Just another when keeping it real goes wrong.