This red box is going to change and after today, it will never be the same. Hey guys, Taki here. Today, we have a huge video. there's a high chance that this video is going to because even if you don't want to buy this thing card, you need to be informed about it because its And if you are not informed about there are some potential negative consequences I'm going to present the information that people that are interested in getting know how they're going to navigate the Anyway, this is the MIG Switch Dumper. It's a and a Nintendo Switch cartridge slot on the it clicks into place just Without even opening it up, I'm were on the PCB for this are also on this If you want to wrap your head around SD card reader. If you connect this to the computer would be able to read to essentially create a clone of it with These are things that were usually used identification that is only required for when then go online. That's the most important see how it works. So let's get a computer For our PC, we are going to go with this can be used in a lot of things, but going to be super angry that I am doing a worse for myself by showing an operating system So anyway, we have the dumper here connected now, and we are just going to start by connecting Once that happens, the activity light and if I put my hand here, you can see that it's active. At the top of the screen, we drive called Game Card. And if we press on So far, it looks like a flash drive. Now, the properties show that this is a 275GB drive. It I don't believe that this thing has that when we do a teardown. I just think it's As you can see, it says that we are at Inside the drive, we have a system folder. In recall from my Mig Switch video, that's the update so I would be shocked if these do If we press on that file, we can see that that is just basically under 300KB. I'll go over As you can see right now, we don't have anything. it, that goes away. If I plug it back in, it watching this has a pretty good understanding This is where things get spicy - Most of the games that I have cause ninjas to kick in my windows, I have two of them here, and I am going to be upfront about what I'm doing. If they will not exist after the camera shuts So let's take one of our two Minecraft this into our little box and then we're So the dumper disconnects, the activity light up. The difference this time is that we now have now to see what it says for our capacity. It still but now it says we have a bunch of If I go inside the new folder, you can see able to clone this card on the Mig Switch. which is pretty small, all things also have the card ID set, the card UID, the As far as I know, this file here is the one It's unique to this Minecraft cartridge. If I did then I dumped this Minecraft right here, those two the card UID and the card ID set and the ROM, Only the ROM certificate should be different. What I want you to kind of internalize this to my Switch to have full Now I can make a 1:1 backup do I even need the real cartridge anymore? No. I have enough files here to make an exact That's kind of the danger does this work? And the answer to that question connected right now. We do not even need to If I open he who shall not be named, you can see that it identifies Minecraft The files that are currently in use to allow this Nintendo doesn't care about that distinction, but If we press on the game, you can see and the activity light will change. Now we have my OLED Switch, using its own files to decrypt this game It is so strange that this is someone would never even need to dump and I believe you can do this across all Anyway, here's Minecraft running on the a lot of Minecraft on the Switch, and the most in the way that I have here is that it even system. This is just sad. You should not be running an emulator that emulates the device I'm going to show you in just a second, I would see a ton of pop-in as the but it's running way better Here's that same game under the stock talking about. This isn't even as bad as defacto loading screen while you wait for We'll have one thing left to cover when it comes meat of this video, and that is updating it. Let's the cartridge and the dumper share a binary. It shows up as an 80KB file. and then I will go to the system folder to paste Now you can see that our file in this disconnect this and then reconnect it. And the file is back to being 272 kilobytes. So I think the next thing people want I'm going to open the Mig Switch card. As but I was able to identify that which is a very cheap microcontroller, and Both of these should be inside the MIG Switch to start opening this up. With the thing open, so we can get a closer look at them And here we go, this is the Mig Switch Dumper. And as you'll notice, we have some familiar parts which is going to fill the role of and if we flip this, here's our Lattice responsible for interfacing with the Essentially, it's decrypting the game files in the we just get our Mig Switch, we can see this Chip Beyond that, we just have two other fuses. There's not a whole lot going on and I guess this is just something the repair market Switches so they were Anyway, here's the back. It's and this is something that shouldn't be too I might leave the case off this because I think That's the whole that's the whole thing. For this last big section, I want to talk about I feel like I can fully outline all So let's get one thing clear before we games before this thing existed, and it'll difference is in what is being dumped. If you'd usually just have the ROM file here, on an emulator, or on a modded Switch From Nintendo's side, they could ban your with your Switch connected to the internet. This only play pirated games on their emulated With this tool, we now have a use for other card important here is that certificate file because Before this existed, there was and even though people could have dumped past, there was nothing they could I want to be upfront about this I said I was going to go out and buy my wish list. I bought about 15 games or These aren't all of them, but they were Just like with the Switch consoles that I own, I buy a mix of new and used games. If there's then I will buy that game sealed. That would be RPG. I bought those games on release because I For other games that are older that I never games used and before these things existed, somebody had cloned any unique files that could To be able to describe the situation that this and I'm going to use it for a few to you. I have two copies of this. One is Let's say I wanted to buy a third copy of new. If I want to buy this game now, and online that you could use online, I now is a certificate file from the game that I'm or that somebody has made a copy of That's one worry that I have to have. And if you are sorely mistaken because there's that want to go out and buy new before returning them to a store after If those people go online with their clone, and file will go to Nintendo and they can see there Nintendo hasn't said how they're going to handle this will cause a lot of lost revenue for because this is not a good situation for Nintendo if I want to buy this thing used, I have to And I have to hope that they have been honest. it's easier to track the chain of custody because have owned the same game, that's way too risky. didn't clone a cert file while they had Now that is just if someone wants to use the game it is not going to come as a surprise are kind of high. The official price There is now a huge incentive for people to take a game that has a high resale value and using the hardware solution that now If people have the ability to turn out then the entire used market Let's take let's take these two games, for Breath of the Wild and Tears of the they aren't that cheap, especially for If we take the hardware on the MIG Switch as an you back $2-3 in volume, as well as an ESP32 that If we include all of the passive components the cost to get it fabricated, you are then add some storage on the board, get a good Now, when you want to go buy something from the for you to know at a glance if you're buying do such a good job that you won't know unless problem going forward because now you're going something that we didn't need to worry about So I presented two situations to you, one now clone cartridges of games with high for a current release. That's going to have The cynical side of this is, well, Nintendo is going to be happy about this game market and cause people to only buy Going forward, I am going to have to get used the files from their games now that these both Anyway, that's it for this review what it sets out to do, but If you enjoyed this video and you my big video on the Nintendo Switch in