Essential Pointer for Awakening 15 April 2023 For so long I've spoken on the path of awakening, or on the God path. But these days into some simple exercises that One is basically to sit, sit by yourself, sit down somewhere and try to empty your mind. That's one point, just empty. Quickly you'll feel, It's very nice, simple. You are. You exist. That basic 'I exist' feeling in you It actually is the Self, the pure Self. But in life we have come to give it 'I am this person', 'I am this body', and so on. I would say, that is not true. If you start at this place you know you exist, Just that natural 'I exist' more than any thought This is your basic ground of being. With that, you can see what arises in the mind through history, conditioning, upbringing, projections and other factors, some of which maybe are not easy to trace. All of that floats up in front of or within And what has happened in the past is that we are conditioned through life to identify with certain aspects of these things. You create a relationship with them. And they form a kind of identity within yourself. So here I've only asked you again to stay conscious that you are here first, empty and without association, just that basic 'I am-ness'. It is the place from where you can witness all the traffic that comes in your mind Every sensation internally and externally, My basic advice and exercise is, try to just hold on, consciously, even when some thoughts come that appear to be very strong When those thoughts come, the tendency is to go into identity with them. It's so quick! But you find yourself wrestling and struggling around this type of thoughts or feelings. Now I'm inviting you and see when that energy comes. Sometimes it comes, But all of this is observable This place of being is not a person. It is like the presence, the presence of God, the godly presence. You can be aware of everything. The minute you do this consciously, even if you feel you fail by identifying for a moment or two, Don't hold it as a judgment or a failure. Exercise this discernment of being present and aware In a short while you will see that the noise of the mind and the world drifts away. It's as though it drifts away and you are back again only as pure presence. That realisation feels so beautifully rounded and grounded inside your being. And you lose your fear of the thoughts or of what they are saying. Also the feeling of a personal identity, will itself become something What you realise is, you have always been this. The person who has a lot of struggles in life is also a mind-created identity. And it is observable. You can feel and still, there's no change in your being. Your being is totally present, This is the first huge transformation that you begin to experience. I say, continue to be with this. Even if you sit for ten minutes by yourself. Try and do this two or three times a day. Sit with it and it becomes stronger, this realisation, this awakening You realise, 'But wait a second! And be with this, be with this. When we hear of the difficulties it's because they go back into the mind, where all the troubles seem to get even louder, and identify with that state Still they are struggling and give all the attention that is only appearing through the mind, This is a simple exercise. When you've learned to see the world sensations, memories and so on, when you can feel it and still remain separate When you keep like this, as you do this, then you get more established in just presence, more and more presence. Even amidst the chaos you still retain this quality of presence. Occasionally, you go into an 'I-shape' for a minute, but you won't mind that You come back. At some point, you'll find that When you say 'I', it means presence This may take some time. But gradually, when you say 'I' it's as though something inside feels, that's not truthful, 'I'm not the person'. You stay as the presence. You learn at a certain point also to just be aware of presence without identifying or giving any pictures to presence. After a while, by doing this, you are beyond presence. Those of you you can feel it, it's not a technique. It's not a psychological trick. It's pure, the purity to come here. That is the height. You may become an emperor, travel to other planets. Nothing can compare to this simple exercise and the fruit of this exercise If you can follow this, soon you will find real happiness, real joy. You will realise how precious is your life. Not your life lived to satisfy But the life that is eternal and unending and beautiful. This is what I come to share with you. So, thank you. [silence] I want to say something else. Sometimes, as we go deep ... By 'deep' I mean more constant The word 'deep' just means consistent in your seeing. On the way to finding that unchanging stillness, that completeness, mind will come to entice you with things that have caught your attention before, that have been forces of distraction in you. It will come from time to time. You may feel that you've failed I say, don't worry. There's nobody judging you. I'm just reminding you, Don't measure how much time You will experience being distracted But your distractions are not a failure. You can do this by yourself or with others, I find it's very good to be by yourself and look. Give this present to yourself Even five minutes, if that's all you have, to sit here and to rest All the erratic movements of the world ... You see my hands are doing this Suppose this is the world. This is the world: noise, family, job, all kinds of things are happening. But I'm still here. just like you. Learn this. Take it to heart and come out of misery. Your mind is not going to help you to find this by holding on to your habits. I'm not even saying, 'Give up your habits'. Just keep doing this. And whatever habits are obstructing you, they will gradually leave on their own. You will not miss them emotionally. You'll say, 'I'm so happy, so much freedom'. Bless you. Copyright 2023 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.