- You know what Is that for 50 years, food writers have been After thousands of trips and thousands of hours you'd think, by now, about Italian cooking, Nope. We don't. Because every time I go, or J.M. Hirsch, our editor here we come across recipes we've never seen in a cookbook. And that's given the wealth of recipes But we want to present to you today that really tell about Italian cooking And one of them, he came across Now, this is a fermented hard to find, and they use it to make a pasta sauce. That was one recipe It's phenomenal, The other recipe And it's a cross and an amatriciana, <i> Zozzona,</i> I guess, means dirty, so it's sort of a dirty mix up And that was completely So there's a lot left I don't think we'll ever get all you probably have not heard of. So let's go into the kitchen and rediscover some of the - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned In an assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments-- some simple, some grand. The heart of your home The heart of your kitchen - (speaking Italian) - (speaking Italian) - The history of sofrito, like, older than the kitchen. It's, uh... poor. The poor people, they want to buy the meat, but they go to the Neapolitan... nobility palace where they use, And they give them the, only the, uh, the (speaking Italian) And to give a very good flavor to the dish, concentrate, and we use also the concentrate of red peppers, the one spicy and sweet that give more taste We will cook one minute with the, with the sofrito. (speaking Italian) We have it not on the menu, the interior, generation of my father, uh, it's part of their story. - (speaking Italian) - So when you go to Italy you just got I was in Calabria for a week-- there are two One is that we find recipes we've never heard of before. And this is the best example of - This is a spicy tomato But it's really weird Or, or surprising, right? And I know the name alone <i> Zuppa forte,</i> But I assure you, we're There is some spice in it, but it's not that potent-- to how it was which is to make a really strong and chilies and meat. that's the reference. But it was quite Here, I'm gonna give you This is about four cloves and it's sold in giant vats at every butcher shop in Naples. But none of them None of them seem And it took me a week to figure out some And, you know, You know, traditionally,<i> you didn't have time to do this, And so they would of the day while working The second one, though, that I could only find at a shop that sold salted cod. And that was the real to try to figure out, it was like, there's There's, like, almost miso-esque And I really I finally found one woman who taught me the secret and told me which cod shop But the secret ingredient is called salsa pepperoni, which is just Calabrian chilies that have been fermented, cooked down to a paste. And it's actually very which is what - So you're gonna take and add a Korean... - Absolutely. Absolutely. - (laughs) A fusion. is a little maltier, than the Calabrian chili paste. But anyway, so over here, we have the base and you're browning off with some pancetta, And... - But by the way, the recipe calls for a sprig. - (laughs) There's a third one - I mean, you know, I'm gonna <i> What Is a Sprig?</i> - But I should say It's interesting-- they often tend Garlic, for example. You know what I'm about to say? - &quot;Instead of minced garlic, And they just saute it Take the garlic out, - And what do you do with the If I hear it one more time. - Thank you, all right-- - So here we are using to flavor the oil, and - Right, right. But, you know, And again, this is hearkens back People who were poor They didn't have time So they would throw it in, leave let it cook, and simmer down And then come back All right, the tomato sauce that we're and cook it down. Now, as you know very well, even Italian cooks are not So we're gonna take of whole peeled tomatoes, And to that, we're gonna add two tablespoons of gochujang. You can find but it's not as common. If you do find it and you want All right, so now we're just (blender whirring) (whirring stops) Perfect. Are you ready - Ah, go right ahead. so we're going to And scrape up all - The pasta, very quickly-- Personally, I use two quarts because I want to have as much But four quarts is typical. A tablespoon of kosher salt, you can add a little more, And a pound of pasta. - And, you know, pretty much, as we know, Italian cooks, yes, there are reasons for certain sauces, but they'll also And in this case, you know, we've got some penne. You could use rigatoni. Something with some nooks to catch the sauce - A lot of folks in Italy, especially if they're make their own pasta, I was cooking with rolled out and she put a thin metal skewer and rolled the pasta around and then pulled it off-- pasta with a hole in the middle. You know, I'm going to start it's really not that hard. - It really is shockingly easy, of course, none of them Hundred grams of flour per egg. - Well, a lot of them They just... has flour, water. - That's true. That's true. - Pasta's going. And now we're cooking down letting them infuse with the - It's a really simple recipe. You just... you're adding which is very<i> Milk Street.</i> - Let the ingredients - And they certainly - So we're gonna finish and then marry them together with a couple techniques. Sauce is cooked down, - Mm-hmm. - And now - Now, the way, you know, all that fat has risen that we've rendered plus a little bit of olive oil It is Italian cooking, Get those things out of there. All right, scrape that right in. And, of course, we've saved - You can see there's some starch in here If you did a sauce, where it's really important because you have cheese in it, you'd probably use - Yes. - But this case and it's not as critical. The other miracle ingredient - (laughs) - Oh, I'm sorry-- - You just don't get any pasta, I'll let you serve some up. And one of the chefs I learned this recipe from, he doesn't actually but he'll make mostly for elderly folks And he likes to top it with a little fresh ricotta. A little bit of creaminess. And a little bit of fresh basil. Here, I'll let you adorn - Mmm. - Mm-hmm. - You know, it's true for an Italian pasta sauce, a lot of flavor putting massive amounts - And you're getting from the fermented chilies, It's got a little bit of a kick, And if you can eat it, we know - As I get older, actually, - Really? Hmm. - Was that a question mark? I'll wait for - Mm. So the next time you want on a Tuesday night, you can make but you can also do it this way. And you get pasta with a spicy And it is really good. - In Calabria, I learned the art of simple hand-formed In addition to<i> fileja,</i> this is the one formed I also saw never heard of before. - (speaking Italian): Please, this is your moment. Baptism-- you never make - Oh, this is the baptism. Yeah, exactly like that, - Bless you. - Bless you, my child. - Yeah, take this one, please. Good. Great. Look at that. (speaking Italian) - Making pasta at home And you don't need A couple of bowls It's really very easy. Rose is gonna make orecchiette, and I'm gonna make<i> pici,</i> very thick kind of - Well, I'm thrilled to be Anyone can do it. - And it's very forgiving, we're putting some and some semolina flour, So mix the flours together, and then we're - Okay. Three-quarters cup. You could make this right on the board, too, why aren't you? - Did you ever make pasta back - You know, we made egg noodles. My mother used to make but they're They were German egg noodles. So you do have to knead So we're gonna have to do So why did you pick<i> - Well, I don't think people really realize you can And honestly, than any box - Oh, of course. - So we'll just wrap it up, and let it sit room temp for - Yep, 20 minutes to an hour. You could also or something like that, to room temperature - Same thing if we were We would dust with semolina to keep it from sticking to the Yes, one of those. - So you are gonna roll rods, - Yep. - And cut them small into the I'm gonna roll mine out, and then just cut and roll each individual strand. - I'm going to and then just kind And look at that. - Now I'm just cutting and cutting straight through I'm not sawing this, I'm using And then once I have the ...I can use my fingers - So once the dough is made, ten minutes, - Beautiful, these are great. I can't wait to cook it - All right. - Yes. God, this is great. you feel like you can't You can. Anyone can. - Mm. - Well, that was pretty It came together And cooking it, it's better than any store- So good and chewy, hearty. - It is delicious. - (speaking Italian) <i> - Rigatoni alla zozzona</i> It is a mashup of cheesy, and spicy tomato amatriciana. At Momma Angelina, chef Andrea Dell'omo It's very simple, and it doesn't So I'm going to show you how I've already cooked our pound of water with a tablespoon just shy of al dente. It's going to so I didn't want And I put aside two cups Into the same pot, I'm gonna add and we're gonna Chef Dell'omo which is another But it's easier to find pancetta So I'm gonna cook this until it starts to render and get a little bit crisp. Okay, so we've rendered out some It's starting I'm going to add three But we've taken the casing off, because I'm gonna break this up So the spicy Italian sausage We're getting all those delicious flavors So I'm gonna break And let that brown Every single time we made this there was not a drop left. It's a little decadent, Okay, so we've got I'm going to take half of it out And what's left the base for our tomato sauce. I'm going to let these for about six to eight minutes. So now we're component of this pasta. We've got I'm going to add two some pecorino cheese, and some black pepper. I'm going to whisk And then I'm going to add a quarter cup of our reserved You don't want it to be too hot, I've got my pasta. I'm going to add that back I'm going to add one cup of our pasta water. So I'm going three to five minutes to cook all the way through. So at this point, from the heat because we're and I don't want those I'm going to Stir that around. Again, the residual heat is going to cook those eggs, just make a beautiful all around the rigatoni. And I'm also going to add back the rest of So that's crunchy bite to the pasta. I'm going to stir this until all of this is clinging and it's nice and creamy. If you need you can add it So this looks perfect. Look at how beautiful this is. It's cheesy, it's creamy. We've got bits of sausage Everything you'd want And then you might with a little I love pecorino, Oh, my gosh. <i> Rigatoni alla zozzona.</i> It's one of the best Everything that you love right here in one dish. You can get this recipe and all the recipes at MilkStreetTV.com. - Recipes and episodes are available along with shopping lists, and step-by-step videos. Access our content anytime to change the way you cook. - The new<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> and includes every recipe From cacio e pepe to Brazilian-style carrot cake the<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> offers bolder, fresher, Order your copy of for $27, 40% less Call 855-MILK-177 - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned In an assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments-- some simple, some grand. The heart of your home The heart of your kitchen