- It's so nice to be here. I'm nervous about tonight, and I'm sad, kind of, because when I was walking in here, there were a lot of beautiful young women out front smoking cigarettes. And it made me sad because I used to be a beautiful young woman. (audience laughing) And look what cigarettes did to me. So cut it out. Don't do that. I didn't know exactly where the place was. I couldn't find it. I was walking up and down center. I saw another guy walking. I go, how do I get to the Dry Bar? And he goes, &quot;from here?&quot; No, from your house. How do I go back to your house and find the place? (audience laughing) It's nice to be here. Anybody on a first date? No? How about a last date? (audience laughing) I guess only one of you would know. (audience laughing) Nice to be back in Utah, where everybody drives like the other person's a potential organ donor. (audience laughing) You drive so fast here. (audience laughing) People drive fast. (audience laughing) I live in Denver. I'm a veterinarian there. I gave some lectures in Seattle this week. And you come down over the mountains looking down, coming into Denver. Still a lot of snow up there. I think about my father who died 15 years ago, Friday. He was an ice fisherman ice fishing. How much do I have to hate your old lady to go ice fishing? How much do you have to hate your wife than sit with your bottom right on the ice? Are you kidding? And how dumb must the fish be? I mean, if the ceiling opened up right now and a potpie came down, (audience laughing) wouldn't you be at all suspicious? Honey, did we order a pizza? (audience laughing) What a nice crowd. It's nice to be here. I'm a veterinarian in Denver. And because the law change, we're seeing one marijuana dog a day. The poor things-- they eat the edibles. They eat the cookies and the brownies. And it's sad. I mean, the half-life for a person-- 26 hours, half-life for a dog-- 96 hours. You can put them in any position like Gumby. They're just poor things. I don't even know what I think about marijuana. I'm Irish. I mean, we discovered marijuana before we discovered whiskey well. (audience laughing) I'll tell you Irish dancing be very different. (audience laughing) We might even use our hands. (audience laughing) That's nice of you. The Cat Care Society in Denver caught on fire this week, but no animals were hurt. A bunch of veterinarians-- we all got over there and helped. Got them all out of there. No burns or smoke inhalation. But the next day in the paper, the fire marshal said he believed that the fire at the Cat Care Society had been caused by mice chewing electrical wiring. (audience laughing) You can't even make that up. You can't even write stuff like that. Chew right here, Stuart Little. (audience laughing) Started reading again. Not really reading. I do books on tape. But it turns out I'm a slow listener. (audience laughing) So it doesn't work out. (audience laughing) You got to do the kid jokes. Jokes like, how come Noah was such a bad fisherman? He only had two worms. (audience laughing) The kid jokes. A skeleton walks into a bar and says, give me a beer and a mop. (audience laughing) I'll tell you about that later if you're not getting it. (audience laughing) Well, how nice you are. It's so nice to be here. I was working last night in Denver at a club run by the Jehovah Witnesses. And all they wanted to hear were knock-knock jokes. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Oh, we can't make fun of-- we can't make fun of anybody. Don't make fun of the Witnesses, right? A Witness came to my house the other day, knocked on the door, and let him in. Took him in the kitchen, sat him down, and gave him a cup of coffee. I go, what do you want to talk about? He goes, &quot;I don't know. &quot;I've never gotten this far before.&quot; (audience laughing) What's with the banks? How come the banks are so snotty to us? Remember the banks were really nice? You opened up a new account. They gave you a wonderful gift like a toaster. Went to the bank last week, made a deposit. They gave me this thermos. (audience laughing) I don't get it. That's an awful gift. That's ridiculous. (audience laughing) Look out. It leaks. They were a friendly bank. I was driving away. They're all waving at me, and they were very-- (audience laughing) Tell you a few things about myself. I'm 65. But I read at a 66-year-old level. (audience laughing) I'm so old. I remember preparation A. (audience laughing) I'm so old. The only time I don't have to pee is when I'm peeing. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Last summer, I couldn't pee at all. I went to the doctor. I go, I can't pee. He goes, &quot;how old are you?&quot; I go, 65. He goes, &quot;you've peed enough.&quot; (audience laughing) And as you get older, apparently, you do start to look like your pet. There's this morning, before I went to the airport, my next-door neighbor came over. He yelled at me for pooping in his front yard. (audience laughing) Cold, I've been eating vitamins. You eat vitamins? Eating so many vitamins, went and tinkled before I came up here and looked like I'd eaten a highlighter. (audience laughing) Some of these aren't jokes. I'm just telling you stuff. (audience laughing) I'd like to read the classified ads about animals. If you read classified ads, you can tell that Americans can't spell, do grammar, punctuation, anything with English language anymore. So I think The Denver Post had said, free to good home-- pit bull, will eat anything, loves children. (audience laughing) There should have been a hyphen or a slash or comma. Help me. I don't know grammar. So another said, free to good home-- Doberman, neutered, just like one of the family. (audience laughing) I've heard dysfunctional families. Saw one that said, tired of cleaning yourself? Let me do it. (audience laughing) Hope he doesn't chase me like the last guy. (audience laughing) But they ask you the silliest questions. A woman come in. She goes, &quot;doctor, do gerbils have &quot;individual fingerprints &quot;like human beings?&quot; Why? Are you missing some woodchips? (audience laughing) Another one said, &quot;what do you give &quot;a Great Dane with diarrhea?&quot; I said, plenty of room. (audience laughing) And then suddenly she goes, &quot;how old &quot;should my dog be before I tell him &quot;he's adopted?&quot; (audience laughing) I like to-- dog food and cat food-- feed my dog before I came here Gaines-Burger liquid and that. all beef, no soy, no fiber. Looked at what I was eating-- all fiber, all soy, no beef. I just switched plates with him. And now we're selling gourmet cat food. When did cats become gourmets? What kind of gourmet coughs up a hair ball after he eats? And we're selling beef-flavored cat food, beef. Cats evolved in the Mid East. They never saw a cow. Cow is one of their natural prey. Anybody who has a cat can tell you the flavors they like-- rodent, fish, bird, miller moth, right? Moth season is like Mardi Gras for the cat in my house. (audience laughing) Not beef. I don't get calls to say, Kev, this is Tex over at the stockyards. You're tabby just knocked another steer downs dragging it home. (audience laughing) Being veterinarians, we're supposed to not be afraid of any animal. But I'm afraid of spiders because they creep you out. The way they move. They got hair and saliva. That's wrong. A bug shouldn't have hair on it. And now the pet stores are selling big spiders-- hobo spiders and tarantulas. Selling big wolf spiders. This guy came to our practice with this plastic shoebox. This giant spider-- He goes, &quot;be really careful. &quot;He got out a year ago. &quot;He bit my roommate in the face, &quot;and he had to have his head drained.&quot; I was like, get a phonebook. (audience laughing) But that's not a practice builder dropping a phone book on your patient. Even I can tell you that. So I said, well, sir, what's wrong with him? He goes, &quot;well, he's just not &quot;himself.&quot; Not his perky spider self? He called in late for work? He goes, no, he hasn't eaten in several weeks, and yesterday, his leg fell off. I was trying to think of some learning to get him out of there, right? So didn't have to touch the thing. So I said, it's been my experience when the leg comes off, they're obviously ill. (audience laughing) It sounded good, didn't it? And I remember that the Museum of Natural History had old Dr. Licht, the spider expert. I said, go see Dr. Licht, the spider guy. He's going to help you. The guy leaves about an hour later. Licht calls me, &quot;Dr. Fitzgerald,&quot; Dr. Licht. Hey. &quot;Did you send Mr. Montgomery &quot;over here with this big spider?&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah. &quot;Did you tell him, in your opinion, &quot;when the leg came off, &quot;they were obviously ill?&quot; Yes. &quot;If you would have taken time &quot;to examine him, &quot;you would have seen &quot;he's, in fact, dead.&quot; (audience laughing) I just didn't want to get my head drained, whatever that meant. What does that even mean? A spider is a pet? A spider is a pet like a black widow is a pet? Do you know why she's called the black widow? Because after the male performs his husband-like duties, the female eats him, eats him, except sometimes the male is hip. And he offers the female a food object. And while she's distracted, he performs his husband-like duties. And that's how Valentine's Day started. (audience laughing) No, no, no. (audience laughing) I made that up. That isn't really true. It didn't start like that. (audience laughing) I grew up in Denver. I come from a big Irish Catholic family. I told you I grew up in a Black neighborhood, went to a Black high school. And one of my friends, a few weeks ago-- that kid I had grown up with-- he had a Boston terrier. And the little Boston terrier-- after my friend, he had a soul food party, the little dog had gotten into the old soul food and eaten a bunch of bones and maybe pig knuckles. And we were worried that the little dog might have an obstruction. So we put the little Boston up on the table and touch his tummy. And he's like, Ooh, I didn't know a dog can make that noise. (audience laughing) So I told the kid, there's a 15-year-old high school boy who wants to go to vet school real bad. I said, John, take the dog in the back with me. Let's get an X-ray. Let's see if he's got a piece of bone in there. We take the dog in the back. We get a film. There is no bone, but there's something dense in his stomach. I think we can make him vomit, make him feel better. I tell the kid, hold the dog. I'll give him the medicine. We'll see what he brings up. Kid holds the dog. I give the medicine. The dog vomits up a completely intact unchewed pig heart, the valves and all. The kid turns green and faints. He thinks the dog has vomitted up his own heart. (audience laughing) He gets up off the floor, goes, &quot;oh, doc. &quot;We hurt him bad. &quot;I think that's something he might &quot;need.&quot; I go, no, honey. You couldn't live without a heart. You already got a brilliant future kid, brilliant. You're going somewhere. No. (audience laughing) I have a hobby. I identify snakes with the Rocky Mountain Poison Center. And did know if you're bitten by a poisonous snake in this country, your insurance company won't pay for the antivenom until they know what kind of snake has bitten you, right? And so for the handsome sum of $50 a snake, I go down for my friend at Denver General, Dr. Bronstein, and identify snakes. What? You look at me weird like I can have worse hobbies. (audience laughing) Like my brother the bowler-- bowling, bowling, bowling, bowling, bowling. (audience laughing) Earlier this summer, one of our neighbors out on a prairie town on the prairie in Colorado had been bitten on his bottom on a Friday night at his outhouse by a rattlesnake. And so I was sitting home with my mother, smoking a cigar. I give her one a week. (audience laughing) The phone rings. It's Bronstein. And I say, Al, you got a snakebite? He goes, &quot;I do. &quot;Can you come down? &quot;We got a guy bitten by a snake.&quot; Who doesn't want $50? I jump in the car, drive down to Denver General. Now, I got to tell you. Denver General-- they keep the poison people on the second floor. So I get up to the second floor, and I can hear this guy yelling, &quot;my whole butt's numb. &quot;Do something. &quot;Do something. &quot;Don't make me wait. &quot;Give me the antivenom.&quot; And I see Al. I go, Al, where's the snake? And he goes, &quot;we don't really have &quot;the snake. &quot;We were hoping maybe you look &quot;at his bottom and tell us &quot;you thought it was a snakebite.&quot; Not for 50 bucks. (audience laughing) If you got to look at somebody's butt, they got to pay you more, right? But we got to be nice, right? So I look at his bottom, and there were two red marks, and it could have been a snakebite. So I tell Al it could be a snakebite. We jump in the car. We drive out to this little prairie town. The sun's just going down. We got the wife on the cell phone. We meet her at the outhouse. We walk up to the outhouse. Al's got a big light in his car he brings. We get close to the outhouse, we hear something moving. He shines his light down in the outhouse. And there, in the outhouse, is a chicken. He's been pecked on the bottom by a chicken and drove all the way to Denver screaming about a snake. You can't even make that up. It's not a joke yet but a good story. I had to tell somebody that. I got back, and I told my mother. And she goes, &quot;well?&quot; I go, well, what? She goes, &quot;did you save the chicken?&quot; Oh, yeah. I didn't leave him in an outhouse. (audience laughing) Oh, you can't make up stuff like that. The other day, this thing happened. This woman-- her little hamster had gotten out and gotten under the refrigerator, and she caught him. And she was worried because when she put him back in his cage, he got stuck to the side of the cage. And so I thought, they got the big cheek pouches, and they can get abscesses. Maybe had an infection. So I reach in the little cage, and he's stuck. And I pull him and goes, yeah. So I look in his cheek pouch, and he's got a refrigerator magnet. (audience laughing) You can't even feel for the little guy. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. (audience laughing) So I was working Christmas, and a wallaby got out in this neighborhood close to our hospital. Was running down the street. And neighborhood dogs were mauling it. And two policemen I take care of the rural and Denver police dogs. They saw that thing being mauled. Didn't want it mauled. They chased it, cornered it between two houses. They took their big jackets off, threw it over the wallaby, and they were so sweet. They didn't know what it was. And they threw it in the back of their squad car. They come to me. The guy is walking up the walk with his wallaby and he goes. I go, John, is Heidi your schnauzer, sick? He goes, &quot;we think we caught &quot;a mutant rabbit.&quot; (audience laughing) It's not a mutant rabbit. (audience laughing) You can't laugh at him, though. You have to always be nice. Oh, yeah. Mutant rabbit. (audience laughing) I just got bad news. The doctor told me, &quot;you have AIDS &quot;and Alzheimer's.&quot; I said, well, at least I don't have AIDS. (audience laughing) My mother goes, &quot;will you &quot;tell him a joke?&quot; My mother keeps jokes in shoeboxes. She goes, &quot;will you tell the Provo &quot;people a joke that I know?&quot; She keeps them on index cards by the year that she heard it and by title on these. So here's her joke. I want the card back. Now go ahead and take the card. Guy goes into a doctor's office and says, doctor, my wife's very vain. She won't get a hearing tested. How can I measure my wife's hearing at home? Says, &quot;You got to do the home hearing &quot;test. &quot;Measure 40 feet, 30 feet, 20 feet, &quot;10 feet. &quot;When she's 40 feet, say something. &quot;If she can't hear, go 30. &quot;She can't, go 20. &quot;She can't, go 10. &quot;You tell me how many feet she first &quot;goes away, &quot;and I'll make an apparatus &quot;for her ear.&quot; Guy goes home, measures 40, 30, 20, 10. His wife's 40 feet away. Honey, what's for supper? 30 feet-- honey, what's for supper? 20 feet-- honey, what's for supper? 10 feet away-- honey, what's for supper? She says, &quot;for the fourth time, &quot;chicken.&quot; (audience laughing) I've only got a couple of minutes, but man, you've been so nice. Got to work on cats. Not always so easy. Somebody comes in. She goes, &quot;Can my cat &quot;sit too close to the TV and burn out &quot;his retinas?&quot; Who cares? (audience laughing) No, no. Women love cats, and men hate them. But look at cats for a second. I mean, they act like they paid your rent, right? Sleep all day on the couch. Vomit after they eat for fun. They're just like men. No wonder we hate them. And there's no battle of the sexes. Women already won. Did you know that? Don't gloat about it. Look, men are twice as likely to get heart disease, three times as likely to get cancer. We're seven times as likely to be murdered. You live 8.8 years longer than I do, and I got to carry your suitcase? (audience laughing) What kind of world is this? Carry your own suitcase. I'm already dying. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Went to veterinary school in Fort Collins. If the guy sitting next to me would have applied himself, I would have done a lot better. (audience laughing) But my gallbladder ruptured in May. And you're scared, and you're hurt. I never had surgery before down in the basement of Saint Joseph's Hospital in Denver, and you're filling out the forms. And you have an ill-fitting gown with your bottom hanging out, and you're scared and embarrassed. And I had this hatchet-face nurse who looked like a ferret with earrings. (audience laughing) And she's grumpy. She goes, &quot;hey.&quot; I go, oh, no. I peed in the wrong bottle. (audience laughing) And they have me on a gurney. They're rolling up the next available surgery suite and had these screens around me. She goes, &quot;hey.&quot; I go, oh, yeah, yeah. She goes, &quot;you're scared, aren't you?&quot; I go, yeah, I'm scared. I've never had surgery before. And she reached across, and she hugged me. And the most gentle thing and so generous. She goes, &quot;don't be scared.&quot; She goes, &quot;when you get out &quot;of surgery, I'll be right there &quot;and take care of you.&quot; She goes, &quot;you know what? &quot;Every day, when I get up, &quot;I say today nobody's going to be &quot;scared on my shift.&quot; Ain't that nice? And that's what we have to do remember and be nice to each other. Thank you very much for having me. (audience cheering)