Thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring today's video. This is one of the most hotly Even if you didn't actively request it yourself, Webb Space Telescope. It is more powerful than any it had to be folded up like origami to fit So precise and sensitive, it has to be kept at to prevent its own internal heat radiation So expensive, it cost $10 billion dollars to make, 300 potential failure points stood But now it is here. And it has an incredible of life, to understand the formation of planets, universe to objects so far away, the light they the universe is believed to have existed. In other and galaxies at the very edge of our knowable And the first images have started coming in. Join with me on a journey as we look over the Space Telescope, and see for ourselves the power already promising to be spectacular. For those who time watching the JWST as it's gone from a work It was first conceived in the 1990's, and was and to launch in 2007. However, numerous setbacks again and again. It was only in December 2021 the intervening months slowly unpacking itself, It is a 6,500kg monster, with a sun shield a tennis court. Its mirror for capturing light which allows it to pick up more photons It boasts numerous cameras and scientific the infrared spectrum. This is a feature Due to the expansion of the universe, all of the stretched to the point that no matter what they light now. So, the only way to see these light of that, infrared is better at punching through the James Webb Telescope the incredible ability to I compare this telescope with Hubble a lot, as the to be Hubble's successor. However, given their mostly see in visible light spectrums while the see infrared, and can't see some visible light that the two telescopes compliment each other a powerful duo, expanding our understanding of the are here to see what James Webb can do. Beginning vision outwards towards the edge of the knowable The first stop-off on our journey is The Cosmic cliffs, otherwise known as NGC 3324, years away from us. These peaks you're looking at and what you see here is only a portion of the larger, and contains a hollowed-out centre, where all nearby dust away from them. What we're looking Scientists are very interested in this region answer questions about the formation of stars. dust and matter conglomerate together, However, for all our stargazing, there are How exactly do they form? What do the different Part of the difficulty with finding the answers also a massive impediment to seeing it happen. It cocoon, stopping scientists from seeing very like to see the most. James Webb fixes that. than Hubble's image, but thanks to JWST's onboard the layers of dust and see what lies within. See scientists with data on the formation of stars for At our next stop, the JWST uncovers more about the little closer to home to NGC 3132, otherwise known was taken by JWST's Near Infrared Camera (NIRCam), MIRI. This is a planetary nebula, although While regular nebulas are birthplaces of stars, Instead, it was just an unhelpful naming the round shapes of these nebulas and thought they though our interpretation of the name has moved when dust and gas are blasted out from dying stars chemical composition of this dust is useful, as helps us to understand what later waves of stars ability to peel back the layers of dust to see Hubble's image to get a sense of the increased From this scientists have learned that the second exploded, so the formation of its own planetary better sense of how the gravitational interactions together in fascinating patterns. Now, let's If we want to see star creation, it makes sense away from us lies the Tarantula Nebula, so named lurking within its silken web. Aside from its particular note to scientists because of its known as the "Cosmic Noon". At that point, place about a billion years after the universe It is thought that conditions there would have been able to spot stars here that are only just to study. Let's look further out again. As our and start seeing things on a galactic scale. Even Stephan's quintet is a formation of 5 galaxies but just looks that way from our perspective), a Wonderful Life". It is thought that 4 of these already doing so. James Webb allows us to see as these two central galaxies circle each other. intense. The energy profound. It is a dance that This image was not taken at a single time, but images that James Webb took and then scientists for picking out details. Let's look farther out in an image known as Webb's First Deep Field. a single grain of sand held out at arm's length At this scale, individual stars are almost are not stars, which would be too small to detect fish-lens effects being created by gravitational light around them, distorting what lies beyond. In this image is one of the oldest galaxies the light from when it was born at the beginning Where is it? We are going to need to zoom in. By evaluating markers within the light given off identify how far it has redshifted, and thus by comparing it to normal visible light from 13.1 billion light years away. As far as we be 13.7 billion years old, this is one of the Now, you might be disappointed by how small it is. image with a similar one taken by Hubble of the and clearer, giving more detail and showing more between these two images. Hubble took its image by gathering every photon it could from this region JWST, on the other hand, took only What this implies is that if JWST was able to imagine how detailed an image it could In other words, this tiny little dot is I hope these images have given you both a sense JWST, but also just how beautiful the sights in Sadly, we are going to have to be a little might have in store for us. The JWST has only letting its instruments cool off and making There are queues of scientists fighting the next 5 to 10 years of its expected It will be investigating exoplanets for unveiling nebula to find the origins of stars, and an old galaxy like ours and the young galaxies as powerful as the James Webb Space Telescope, Have you ever accidentally clicked a link to an been hacked on a particular website and needed the website popped up and looked just like the the URL looked weird before I submitted my scammed and so didn't submit my details. website names, look if they have a valid TLS But these things aren't always foolproof. software that keeps a list of known malicious NordVPN's Threat Protection feature - as part plus it hides your traffic while you deal including Nord's Threat Protection plus 4 months for free with a 30-day money-back Thanks for watching! Be sure to subscribe for and members, if you would like to support me check the links in the description below.