- Hello, everybody. - Welcome to &quot;Cloudy With - [Josiah] If the studio can so could we. - I saw this movie on Redbox so this is gonna be basically - I remember nothing about and started playing games on my phone. - If I remember correctly, it feels like dad joke the movie, like everything is a pun. Let's get into this. (majestic music) Oh my God it's the big bang. - Not the big bang, it's a statue. - Actually it's a banana. - This has Dreams vibes - Yeah I saw that strawberry - This is another video by a few people. - Four people exactly. - No three people and - [Flint] My whole life I always wanted to be a great inventor, just like my hero. - Why are we getting a recap of who he is? - Because they have to add a because this movie was for the series. - Yeah, like what if we added, oh, who is that? Adam from &quot;MythBusters&quot;. - Adam Savage. - [Narrator] The with your host Chester V. - [Crowd] We love you Chester V. - Oh, there's so many kids. - The only non-human - [Jude] Why does this look like we play? The way they're moving and how static it all is. - This is fine to me. - That's exactly what I thought of. - Yeah, 'cause it's just the same model copy and paste it with hair and shirts, exactly. - [Bren] Yeah, that is - Anyway this is just recapping like the first movie. - We just watched it. - He made food, food make big, big gulp. Food go boom, now he's dead. - Or is it? - It shows the machine dead it's like (bellows). - That's how I wake up every morning, one eye just (bellows). - The eight minutes I've had time to reflect. - I hate sequels that pick up the minute after the last movie stops because it feels like all their stakes and all the work they went - I think it's fine as long as you actually - But in this case, because the first movie and not supposed to be this makes it feel like - Helicopter. No, you know what that is? That was one of those Nerf footballs that you throw in the backyard. - You're right. - Also is that a hexagonal shape rotor? That doesn't work. Is it one of the foam ones taken outta the corner - That's exactly what it is. - I want one of those from my set. Someone send one to me, don't. - Yeah somebody take a and send it to Jude. - No, I want you to take a bite out of a Wilson NFL size leather football and send that to me. It's just flat. (door crashing) Really, that sound? - Yeah the like the that I believe is an iMovie. I think that's literally in iMovie. - Did the budget go up - Yes. - To assist in the cleanup in containment of the leftovers all over the world, you are going to join me at Live Corps and help us make the world a better place. - We're all behind you. - Are you guys sure? - Actually most of you - That guy with the beard on the right is just me in like 20 years. - That's you in five years. - That depends on whether - Sir, I've taken care of everything. The locals have been evacuated, - Splendid, and the inventor? - Wait, wait, wait, wait. Okay, so this hologram is sentient? I thought it was just a projection of him. Like I thought he was This is just weird, what? - No, this is like a copy It's like an AI type deal. - Okay like Elon Musk in like five minutes he's just gonna create 50 and they're all gonna be annoying. - He's Palpatine. - I also think it where Flint was both of the movie in a way, 'cause he created his own situation that he had to get out of. So I think that was really good writing. This is like the kid's movie - Well, this is me. Good luck with your new job guys. - Good luck Flint Lockwood. - Bye. - Wait, did Brent get outta the chicken? - Oh yeah, you're right, - How would he get out? - I really want the scene and them sawing the - Surgically removes his chicken exterior. - Just taking the chicken - Imagine how sweaty he's been in there. - Yeah he had people sign - I'll be your welcome ambassador. Soy latte? Caffeine patches are available 24 hours. - Caffeine patches. That's just from &quot;Meet The Robinsons&quot;. - I believe they were the But they aren't the same universe. - The crossover we all knew we needed- - No we didn't. - We did, the- - The crossover we all know we need. - Don't make this a thing. - Can we stop having cinematic universes. (hammer banging) Another science movie with I didn't see that coming. - I think it's become such a trope to critique capitalism in kids' movies that a lot of writers don't - Yeah it's becoming a meme, the amount of times kids' &quot;Ooh it's bad.&quot; Like yeah. - The biggest company in the - Can we have a kids' movie - Most entertaining and engaging movie. - Ooh all the hexagons on They really just took the OSS and scaled it up for this entire movie. - Everybody get to your hexagons. - [Josiah] This is even more - What were you welding? Man just made an actual portal gun. - He was welding a circle. - Yeah, on a circuit, what? - This looks like one of - It really does. But he's using a literal welding iron or whatever they're called. Yeah welding torch. So is the premise of this so far that he's coming up with all these ideas and he has the money for it but then they're just gonna and not really credit him? - Why do you think they at the beginning of the movie and then have him be and then show the invention That's what this movie surrounds. - Yeah, this is a subplot. - God, I wish this - Invisible coffee table. - Flint. - Hold on, hold on, hold on. He found out how to turn from our flat earth? He did it, he turned off the projection. Literally just turned off the sun. We're gonna make like one really happy apparently. - His dad was reading &quot;Moby-Dick&quot;. - [Together] Chapter - Celebrate. (loud crashing) - Colors. - I would kill him right then and there. - If anyone celebrates my - There's a camera, why - Yeah it's to record- according to where the lens is pointing. - It's a really wide angle - Also it just like leaves. - Oh yeah, it's gone. You're never seeing that again. - Yo it falls out of because there's a wall right there. - Yeah, it's literally just gone. - It went to a different - We shall release the version 8.0. - Any food that has a number on it makes me not wanna buy it. - Introducing pizza 2.0 from Dominoes. - Pizza from Dominoes? - It sounds like something they'd do, they pretend they're high tech. - It would be the most mid pizza ever. - I mean, yeah, it's - I feel like Little Caesars could have a number attached to it and I wouldn't think anything of it 'cause it's Little Caesars. - I don't mind Little Caesars. - Here's the thing with Little Caesars, it's like I can tolerate it, but if I think about it too long, it tastes like they took and then put the sauce on that. - Domino's thin crust is good. - If I wasn't like celiac, I'd be able to enjoy this. - Yeah well that's why you - Wow, is it gluten, dairy and pain free? - I can't guarantee pain. - It is not pain free, but it is gluten and dairy free. - Our newest Live Corps Thinkquanaut is. - What do you think it's gonna be? What do you think it's gonna be? - Definitely not him. - McCallahan for inventing that runs on cute. - It runs on cute. What does that mean? - There's just a cat always in the car. - Yeah, it's like starving in the car. - When you run low on fuel, you just go in there and you pet it. - You have to clean out - (snarling) That's the gas tank. - Look where the gas cap is and look where the trunk is, that cat is just in the trunk. - Yeah, it's under the seats right there. - The litter box is in the trunk and then the way you refuel your car is you feed it from the gas cap. - That would smell so bad all the time. - Don't worry about it. - Celebrate. - Whoa. (ball exploding) - That was the most obvious - They didn't even mix it, they just like dropped and just left it. - That was zero DB, like That was ridiculous. - Someone who's smart but still naive. Someone who idolizes me. - Where do your hands come from? - Based on this, he has like six joints. - [Bren] Perfectly hexagonal fingers. - Oh my God. - That man can just tighten - No, no, the inside is - You're a nut. - And your friends, we take the boat. We can go fishing every day. - Look at Steve in background. - Yeah, he's there for because otherwise you'd be by this conversation. - If they have to do that, they should realize this - But we have to have this - In the first movie, I don't remember the last five bits hardly because they were just like, oh. - I'm afraid I have something with you. - What aspect ratio is that? - It's hexagon. - This is like 500 pixels, this is 500 pixels. - It's 500x6. - His actual picture is - That's a reasonable answer, shut up. - We don't do that. - Why isn't he a hologram right now? - It's the hologram on the screen. - That's so pointless, just record a video. - With you. - They really said an Nintendo 3DS. - No that that's a Nintendo 4DS - Yeah, that's why she had to hold it like really firmly straight otherwise it would be - [Narrator] If they succeed they will destroy monuments - The reason they're going - They're gonna turn - Can get energon and you can summon the entire planet of Cybertron from a random Chicago building. It was put there by our ancestors to get Chicago to summon Cybertron. That's the plot of a real movie I spent money to see in theaters but- - Please don't tell me - The BS USB. This is so stupid. They really just reused the worst parts from the first movie. - It's like, yeah, we want - Yeah but the thing is in the first movie they acknowledged the puns weren't funny. That was part of the entire was that like Flint is not a funny guy, he's just awkward. I would love Earl to be in this movie. It's just nothing happening So railroaded. - We got all the characters let's move on. - Wow. Please run into the dock, please just crash right into the dock. Take every boat with you. - Flint, if you are going home, so am I. - I'm glad the boat has tires, that way when you roll - Exactly, it's for when you get a flat. - When you get a flat, what part of the boat is gonna be flat? - The hull. One of the tires was flat. - Didn't you read Titanic? You know that movie. - I can't wait for the narrator to describe the boat sinking. - Starring Leonardo DaVinci. - But other than that, it looks like a perfectly normal, fresh, delicious strawberry. - It looks like the aliens just the spacing of the - [Bren] Yeah if you turn it - If you guys want us to watch 'cause I actually love that movie. (strawberry mumbling) - Did it just say uwu. Did it just uwu? - It sounds like uwu, but it's not. - That that is just uwu. It's en-woo. E-N dash W-O-O according to the captions that we do not have turned on right now. - I don't care , that's - The uwu plant has lost - Put it down. (Flint yelling) - I want a one hour loop of that. - Somebody audio stretch Flint screaming. - Yes, there you go. No. - No. - They do in this movie later on. - What, what? What? - We better get a move on before we run into any - Yep there it is, they're all gonna pog. - Uwu and pog in this movie, I hate it. - Why are there hippos? What is that, why do you have teeth? - Oh. - Why is the pointy side of the teeth facing the other way, what? Is that a green onion brontosaurus. (Jude humming) - It's enough to make a grown man cry, but not this man. Get back in there tear. - I remember that being the only line people quote from this movie ever. - This like looks cool and stuff, but there's no attachment to it, it's just so obvious that was just like taped on. - I hate to think of the amount of puns that got cut out of the script. - I don't think any of them got cut out, I think they just let everything happen. - There's a leek in the boat. (Jude chuckling) - That is the only part - It would be fine if that that were made in this movie. - Yeah, if that was the only one, but you just made 65 puns in a row. - Hey guys, down this alley. - Oh no, dead end. - That was funny. - Also Swallow Falls Alleys, building quality alleys since 1973. You do know that alleys - What they do is they and the random trash, and needles on the ground. You know, they decorate it all nice. - Namaste. - That's right young Lockwood. - I swear this guy gives me the vibe that he has like a katana over his bed. - Yeah, but it's a holographic katana - He doesn't even own the - It's an NFT katana that's holograms. - Don't say those words together, that hurts so bad. - Oh boy, holographic meatloaf. - My anime girl mouse get on my level. - I think it's the worst - It is. - Step away from the berry madam. - That orange hairy lady - You know the feeling I got I basically have the exact watching this as I did - Well good thing we're almost halfway - We're only halfway through the movie? (both laughing) - En-woo. - Tim's Boat. He named his boat Tim's Boat. - I would name my boat Tim's Boat. - Brendan's boat. Wait, no it's your boat? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, just Tim, Tim's Boat. - I know a place where I - Oh wow, that caterpillar - Are you okay Jude? - You were (yelling). - [Bren] You wanna know what I wanna know? Why is his thumb that long? - He's that guy on TikTok and it goes out? No, I hate that guy, I hate that guy. - Remember the ancient Chinese proverb. (speaking foreign language) Stew offered by a bully is poisoned broth. - No, I wish you wouldn't I wish you would've just kept it. - He just never explains it. - Just like traditional Mandarin and then just never, That's so much funnier. - You guys are gonna love when we watch that movie make sure you're subscribed for that. - It's killer - See, we thought it was the bananas that we're gonna split them, but really it's the scientist. - Shut. - Notice how I'm saying the scientist 'cause I can't remember his name. - Wait, yeah what's his name? - Hold, we're like almost and I have no idea what his name is. - I actually can't remember. It's like something V. - Dr. V maybe. - Whoa. - Where did this bioluminescent - Masking transition. - Oh, oh, oh you can see it just pop in. - Yeah because look under, if you can see the frame where under his neck and she's not. - Look at his back, how instead of being blurry like it should be 'cause he's out of focus. Oh no. - Okay guys, we're here. Hey, hey, hey, hey, that is not for you. All right, let's get to it. - I love this. - It's such a different vibe - This is what the first movie feels like, like this is something - It's called fishing. - Yeah, they all snap to it - And then now they and play harmonica. - Yeah all that air that they have. - No, no, even more than the air, they don't have lips to play a harmonica. - That's why he's just biting it. - The light still. - Bren I hate that you can - Taco Dial Supreme. - Holy guacamole. - Jude it's a supreme. - It's supreme because it's - Oh my God, Nachos BellGrande. - If you make another pun, I'm gonna buy you a Supreme fanny pack that I'm gonna force you around your chest. - Keep soup in it it and you just. - No, you just keep a bunch - Yeah. - That's more Bren's style is to keep cheesitz and - Yeah, but it's not like even in a bag, it's just in the fanny pack with all the dust and hair. - You're not even gonna put to keep it all clean? Oh, it wasn't being harmful, it was just being protective. I've never heard this - Now you get the plot of the movie. - Not only does this but now he's discussing animal cruelty, we're being mean to the food. I will eat it. - The first word that came is plastic, just the word - Butter. (both laughing). - Okay, that was good. It's the only good bit in the whole movie. Butter. - Now you are acting weird, I'm in no mood for this. - I've never seen this - It's right behind me isn't it? - Yeah when the monster very while they were standing there - Food is bad. - I feel like I've seen this but I don't know. - Hold on, it's the Jurassic World thing where he's like (heavy breathing), and then the dinosaurs are like, &quot;Oh God, his hand's out, &quot;I better stop killing people.&quot; This is one of those burger king burgers where they mash every ingredient from their entire and then wonder why - Okay, here's the dumb part of the movie. Well, I mean the whole movie's dumb, but here's like the worst in my opinion. - No, it appears she the food creatures know - Oh, it's evil. - It's an anagram. Not really, it's just backwards but. - Magnificent. - I think this looks cool, but they're probably gonna ruin it by saying exactly what we in just a second here. - Yeah they're gonna be like, &quot;Wow, it's a cave full &quot;that my laser is pointing towards.&quot; - Every single astrology and like died instantly. - The crystals, bro. (machine beeping) - Look how cute they are. - It's cuz they're just like literally just a squish mellow. - [Bren] But look at their little faces. - They are also the period in the best way possible. - Except they're all smiling. - And you hold them over - What? I wanna microwave one. - Sam was right, actually - Wow morality. (glass shattering) So you had all of this equipment here to steal the FLDSMDFR. - But he needed Flynn to find - He had a mechanical arm set up above. There was a storm that It's on the island. - But he needed Flynn to find it Jude. - Flint is so irrelevant - Yeah, just like he is who needed to make another movie somehow. - And needed to make for some reason. - It's the &quot;Cars 2&quot; of the &quot;Cloudy With A - That would be if Brent for no reason. - Yeah, but Flint became so we have that half. - Brent is just Boris Johnson. - I told to (mumbling). - This is the really - [Narrator] Food comes out the bottom. It's saying en-woo and I'm en-woo. - Flint was en-woo the entire time. Can't believe en-woo is real. - So are you telling me that all of these food creatures know and have been waiting - He's God to them. - The only reason they're aggressive is 'cause they had the - They came in to help. We all did. It's time to let us. (Josiah giggling) - No. Oh my God. - This is stupid. - Can anything in this movie not be a pun? - I could cast you up into that unfinished part of the factory. Should be a piece of cake. (majestic classical music) - Stop, stop with the puns. - See giant fishing rod That is their idea. - And then they have to of him going to kill the - Yeah, I don't know what's they're playing over this montage. - It sounds like the VRBO - Sandy beaches, save money with VRBO. Rather die than hear - Yeah, that was like the that's why they had him how to fish. The big moment for dad was when he learned how See that was so much funnier than him swinging a fishing rod around and then flinging his son - That was his peak. He peaked at learning how - That sequence of him like spinning it, lasted like a full minute for some reason. - Computer mouse, mechanical fishing rod sending - Chester let them go. - Oh, don't worry Right into my super - This is so convenient for him. That he tied them all up in a ball and there's a giant meat grinder under where he can drop them. - I'm sorry, all I pictured was the video of the cow and it's like vegans I love that video so much. - Food Bar version 8.0. - I never should have believed in you. - Yes that was quite foolish. - Food Bar eight looks too intense for me. - It's version eight, he had to patch it. - So he wanted the FLDSMDFR so he could capitalize on and make a lot of money, wow. - You could just do what and just take control of and then you can basically - Well, no, what he did was he took control of an entire island. - That's weak, do an - You're right. - Hand over the FLDSMDFR. There's nowhere to go. - That's what you think. - Oh wait, wait, wait, wait. Before you reveal it, the assistant coming to stop him and then she'll say some cheesy crap like, &quot;I'm tired of you picking on me. &quot;I'm an ape, not a monkey.&quot; - Save me monkey. - I'm an ape. - I wasn't gonna say anything 'cause I wanted just it to happen. (Bren laughing) I don't think there's to care about. He plugs it back into the water Wow, so cool, anyways. - This movie has its place the movie itself. - The entire movie. - That hurt, why would you - That was the movie of all time. - It happened and I watched it. - There sure was writing - I don't have words for this. - Well, you know what If the audience likes this video, they should watch our last video which is also about food. Jude and Bren tried to make soup out of anything they could find. - He sure didn't try. Some of 'em turned out pretty good. - One, you made one good soup. - Just don't forget to like and sus, that means subscribe.