Translator: Ryan Hildebrandt I bet you one million dollars or, really, any skill in life. Let me see a show of hands. How many of you guys, have wanted to learn piano Alright, almost everybody, right? And yet I still hear the comment so often of people saying, &quot;Zach, you don't understand. &quot;See, Zach, you don't understand. I don't have a knack for music,&quot; or &quot;Zach, you don't understand. I never took lessons as a kid, and now it's too late for me.&quot; &quot;Zach, you don't understand. But I do understand because I've taught and many who I've taught What I do understand is if you couldn't learn piano it's likely you were simply taught And so whenever I hear I proceed to teach them That's it, eight notes. I call it my secret sauce piano pattern, and this one pattern has completely redefined the way not just piano but, really, And it's saved But first things first: It's my favorite part of the presentation. So for all my music theory nerds this is a simple But don't worry if you you don't have to know music theory Alright, so like I said, (Piano) One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Because it's only eight notes long, and you could spend the rest of the week speeding it up so it sounds something like this. (Gentle piano music) But the big benefit is because of the music theory behind it, we can literally I can take my hand, I can lift it up, and I could literally plop it down and play the exact same pattern, and it's always going to sound good. So I could play it up here. (High-pitched notes) Or I could play the (Low-pitched notes) Or here. Here. (Gentle piano music) It's not that you've You haven't just learned eight notes; I tricked you. You've actually learned up and down the entire piano keyboard. What's even cooler my favorite part, is that this pattern which means once you learn you can literally scale it. In other words, you can copy and paste underneath the melody of almost any song in almost any genre, and it's always going to make Let me show you what I mean. You could take the song use the secret sauce pattern, (Gentle piano music) and it's going to sound like this. (Gentle music: &quot;Swing Low, Sweet Chariot&quot;) (Audience) Wow. Thank you. (Applause) But it doesn't have to be that song - We could take &quot;Joy to the World,&quot; same pattern. Sounds like this. (Music: &quot;Joy to the World&quot;) You could take &quot;Mary Had a Little Lamb,&quot; right, the most boring song (Laughter) and if you add in it's going to sound cool. So for this one, first I'll show you the traditional way You've probably heard it before, (Stiff music: &quot;Mary Had a Little Lamb&quot;) Not exactly tearing up (Laughter) But if you take the exact same song, now it's going to sound like this. (Flowing music: &quot;Mary Had a Little Lamb&quot;) And like I said, because right, because I can play it anywhere not only is it motivating but it's literally saved Now, the first time, My professor comes up to me, he's like, &quot;Zach, I heard from your friends Now, the truth was, at this point, off of YouTube, watching YouTube tutorials. So I said, &quot;Yeah, of course I play piano.&quot; He said, &quot;Great.&quot; (Laughter) Exactly. He said, &quot;Great. My church in Fond du Lac The gig pays 50 bucks a week. Are you in?&quot; And all my little college brain was how many ramen noodles (Laughter) By the way, the math is 172 packages, (Laughter) And so now I was excited. I get to play piano, do what I love, How cool is that? But my excitement quickly turned to fear because my professor sent me It was all in sheet music form. Now remember, I was learning off YouTube. So I literally did not know So I start freaking out. You know, I'm like, &quot;I'll be sitting down Everybody's going to be looking at me. It's going to be embarrassing. I hope they forgive me.&quot; But then I realized, &quot;Zach, This thing works on everything.&quot; And I literally played using one left-hand pattern like &quot;Christ the Lord Has Risen Today.&quot; (Gentle music: &quot;Christ the Lord (Laughter) (Applause) And then I played (Gentle music: &quot;Oh Come All Ye Faithful&quot;) And I literally played using one left-hand pattern. And I remember I was kind of scared &quot;What if they figure out And people came up to me &quot;Zach, we loved the way you played. We loved your original renditions (Laughter) It was great, it was great. At that moment, believe it or not, is the moment that gave me to switch my major from math, and switch my major to music, But that's when I hit a brick wall all the other music majors They started off in kindergarten. They played for 13 years and now they're a music major. And I was coming in, like, &quot;Hey guys, two years off of YouTube. (Laughter) And at first I thought it was a curse. I thought, &quot;Think how good I'd be But later on I realized it was a blessing because in those two years I was going on YouTube I was on Google typing in Right? I was even on these where I'd be like, &quot;Hey, does anybody have the fingering People from all over the world with how they solved and I would try stuff, So now I like to say I got lucky because I really lucked where in one hand I had Dr. Eli Kalman, teaching me the fundamental, but on the other hand, I still had this kind of rogue, that I'd learned off of YouTube. And when you combine it leads to an extremely fast It's how I developed and later on, teaching piano. It's how I graduated as one And this leads me to the second time that the secret sauce pattern That's when I moved and I started teaching piano lessons. And very early on, as someone who could someone who could narrowing down what's efficient and help get you there faster. But I had one big problem. My big problem was adult students. And not for the reason, by the way, Not because adults' brains learn slower or &quot;Kids' brains are like sponges, and adults' brains None of that was true. In fact, my adults that actually practiced because I didn't have to make They would just practice, (Laughter) But the problem was I could not get to just sit down at the piano So as I was going through my notes have become consistent practicers I'm going through my notes, I start to figure out something Now, the launch point is a point about 90 days, and if I can get an adult student something starts to click, because once something starts to click they start feeling more motivated. Once they feel motivated, Once they practice, they get more results. Once they get results, and it leads to this upward, But if I can't get somebody oftentimes they quit piano So at this point it became my goal - to get as many of these adult students as humanly possible. And I tried a lot of different I tried doing practice charts. I tried giving people I tried being the annoying texting person, like, &quot;Hey, did you practice today? Maybe sit down at the old piano, And yet nothing was working. I'm scratching my head and thinking, &quot;How can I get these people to practice?&quot; So I start thinking back: &quot;Okay, Zach, how'd you get back when you were just some dude And that's when it hit me. It was the secret sauce pattern all along. Because once I could play I could play songs I could play for my friends, They'd say, &quot;Wow, you can play piano!&quot; That's what got me motivated. That's what got me excited to practice. Now, the traditional way or, really, any skill in life is what do you learn first? You learn the boring And then months, maybe even years, later, now you get to learn the fun stuff. But I thought, &quot;Okay, what if we What if we teach Get people excited, get them motivated, and then we can go back and we can teach So I started teaching to adult students. And it worked. Suddenly, adults would come &quot;Zach, I played the pattern The next question is the important part. They'd ask me, &quot;But I don't understand. Why do these series no matter where you play them You know what they were asking me? They were asking me to teach them the boring fundamentals that I they were excited about it, and it made my job as a teacher a hundred times easier. And this leads me to the third time that the secret sauce pattern That's when I thought, You know, I'd learned off of YouTube Why couldn't anybody learn off YouTube?&quot; So I hopped over to Best Buy, you know, this was before put it up on the tripod detailing exactly how to do I put it up on YouTube. I forgot about it for two to three months. And I remember I checked back later, and I couldn't believe it, because the video I remember I thought it was a glitch. I'm like refreshing the page. I called my mom, like, How many views does it say What was more exciting to me was the comments I was getting because I was getting: &quot;Zach, I learned this thing in two days.&quot; &quot;Zach, this motivated me &quot;Can you upload more of these tutorials?&quot; So I continued to upload more until nowadays I actually make a living And again, I feel like I fell where on one hand I had to learn how to teach and motivate people but then I also had to learn, How do we transition that teaching and have it still work? As you probably already know, with the bigger the internet gets, the more technology we have, the more of teaching and learning is going You've probably already off of Google, off an online course, and as we move into this new age there's a lot of lessons when I had to transfer my material. But the biggest lesson, is that information We're still treating it like it is. Information used to be the bottleneck. You'd go to a class because what? You need the information from the teacher. We'd open up a book because you need But nowadays, I mean, whether you want to learn whether you want all the information you need on Google and Facebook and forums and blog posts. Information is no longer the issue. So what's the issue now? Well, as you probably already know, The issue is getting someone and actually start studying. The issue is getting somebody The issue is getting someone to sit down and in this new age of learning, we need to start prioritizing And the first step to doing that is to finding the secret sauce or whatever you're teaching. Find something early on that's easy enough for a beginner to learn but still cool and exciting enough get them inspired, get them confident. And not just for piano. If you're teaching somebody how to cook, don't start off with Right? First find that recipe but when you pull it out of the oven, it looks like it came One they can feed their friends and family who will say, &quot;Woah. You cooked this? When did you learn to cook? Get them excited. Give them the motivation first, Find the secret sauce or whatever you're teaching. And by the way, once you do find the secret sauce, make sure you shoot me an email, and then I'll send you my address, and I'll be waiting Thank you guys very much. (Applause)