June 6th, 1944, a gray day breaks over the Channel, Never had such an armada On board 7,000 vessels, 130,000 men crossed the stretch of sea At dawn, after a hail of fire, Twenty thousand of them 10,500 Allied soldiers and almost as many Germans. Eleven weeks later, and the road to Berlin opened wide. This film will tell from the viewpoint this epic tale from its planning until its outcome in the summer. With the US generals: Dwight Eisenhower, Omar Bradley, British Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, German Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, and all the anonymous heroes Not to mention men like Sergeant Grant, They all participated which, contrary to legend, December 1st, 1943, the Tehran Conference, three heads of state The satisfied-looking Joseph Stalin, supreme leader of the Soviet Union Lower down, the concerned-looking For two years, Stalin, Churchill, had been struggling to reach an agreement The outcome of the war From the moment his country entered the Soviet leader had been demanding to relieve the pressure on his troops Meanwhile, influenced by Churchill, the Anglo-Americans by passing through North Africa in order to invade However, and were unable to advance For a long time, Roosevelt was hesitant. He didn't think his country was ready However, he now wanted to put an end and to do so in the West. He also hoped to cooperate Churchill could only resign himself to it. Since the United States Hitler had feared an invasion of the German-occupied In 1942, the construction of the Atlantic Wall, a continuous line of fortifications from northern Norway despite the fact that most Germans in the Calais region, The German authorities, free laborers, Frenchmen refugees, Jews, and prisoners of war, which would require As 1943 drew to a close, Fortress Europe On January 15th, 1944, having been handpicked by Roosevelt Ike Eisenhower arrived in London In effect, the stage is being set for the beginning of the great I am completely confident and all the civil populations will demonstrate once and for all is the most formidable A few days later, Eisenhower As an American supreme commander, He, therefore, appointed as commander General Montgomery, alias Monty, hero of the desert campaign and much loved by his compatriots. The military leaders had their plan, Hence, the best pose in front As always, as he paid more attention to the cameras In truth, despite all this tomfoolery, the leaders had already chosen France but Normandy Because although the Normandy beaches they were less well-defended. The invasion was planned for spring, at the foot of the Cotentin Peninsula. However, Montgomery so as not to get stuck He also wanted to extend to get closer which the Allies would need to seize in order to ensure Secrecy was paramount The Germans needed to be kept totally Early in 1944, they were still unsure of where exactly This was another reason to start spinning [foreign language spoken audio] Eisenhower's arrival in London of an invasion in the West. In 1942, he had appointed the popular Erwin Rommel, After commanding the Afrika Korps, the so-called &quot;Desert Fox&quot; had thwarted so it was only natural for the Fuhrer with reinforcing the defenses By early 1944, Rommel was in France. With the Nazi Air Force to counter Allied bombing raids, he was unable to use it in Normandy. The theatre of war which he considered badly defended. Rommel wanted to fill in the gaps between fortified towns He also asked for the coast However, when you consider France has 750 miles of coastline. Rommel's new energy was little cause because for months, had been building artificial ports, which meant they didn't have and had the flexibility The Allies were not put off These huge concrete caissons, would one day where they would be sunk As would these floating docks and thousands of men would be unloaded providing access to the beaches, A gigantic life-sized construction toy In Britain, training exercises continued. British and Americans even though, once again, Synchronized swimming and pyrotechnics Material and equipment were also tested. Anti-mine tanks to clear the beaches, gymkhanas on wavy artificial roads to get used to these new Jeeps not to mention flame-throwing tanks, anything that had been missed The Allies had already lost several Why choose such an extreme site Despite the fact was a battle-hardened unit, because every type of topographical It's a well-known fact if the balance of power Hailing from Utah, Kansas, Ohio, Kentucky, how many of these young men had any idea of where Britain and France How many of them suspected what lay In February 1944, over 800,000 US servicemen with more and more set to arrive. Straight away, a taste of home The inevitable donut. A first sign of sweetness, America continued such as its Sherman tanks, designed to match the fearsome Panzers While pubgoers discovered these new P-38 bombers whose flying range It wasn't always easy to make way who had to be housed somewhere, even if it meant as tearful children looked on. Stereotypes were strengthened and his &quot;spoiled cousin&quot; from America, notably because his rations to anything his British host had to eat. Good relations like here in the seaside resort where US servicemen relaxed when off duty, and probably to the dismay off fighting the war. Never in the history had there been so many divorces and illegitimate children However, wartime is wartime Fraternization was the order of the day, and it certainly looks as if everything However, General Eisenhower In March, he visited the prestigious where young Winston Churchill had studied and where Ike was firmly intent what would be expected of them. You young men have this war to win. It is up to you, men, to give your units, a platoon or it becomes a company, leadership every hour of the day, You must know It is not enough that you are the best soldier That you are the strongest, the toughest, the most durable, and the best equipped, technically. You must be their leader, Then you will be doing your duty, and you will be worthy and of your great country. These young Brits as Ike addressed them knowing that some of them fighting for a country proudly resisting the Nazis. In that same month of March, it was Churchill's turn of a US paratrooper unit British newsreel producers also decided If it weren't for the cigar, The guy with the cigar and a smile to boot. A number of filmmakers would later use to represent the first US never filmed in reality. More importantly, Churchill despite his initial reticence. While the Allies were united Hitler was far from operations close to the Soviet front, where he still continued to divide, In the West, he split the German command chief of the Western Front, and Marshal Rommel, However, the two men disagreed. Von Rundstedt wanted to keep so they could converge on precise zones Rommel believed would paralyze German troop movements. He, therefore, as close as possible to the coast to confront the enemy However, his wishes were rejected. He, therefore, and installing anti-tank obstacles. They also set up and chevaux-de-frise making any advance almost impossible. He even altered the terrain to impede the landings When possible, the Germans intentionally Devon, in southwest England. The American infantry: training for a beach landing where the enemy might be stationed. The first thing to do is establish a beachhead to set up a radio link Dig in to create shelter, but to save your skin you'll need to show and wait for the right moment and attend to the wounded. What if on D-Day, it's impossible If a low tide unable to reach the wounded, like on the future Omaha Beach but where the Americans The reason this beach so closely resembles is because the Allies For weeks, faced with severe repression, the Allies had access to thousands Whether protected or not, the entire Channel coast Everything had been spotted and noted. All intel, collected and analyzed, was integrated Still, of course, top secret. Except perhaps for the tons of information or rather, disinformation. For months, the Allies had been spoon-feeding to lure them to different landing sites, notably in the Calais region. Over in Britain, the ploy continued just across from the Calais coastline, where fields of inflatable aeroplanes While elsewhere in the south of England, where the majority supplies, arms, and munitions By the month of May, to conceal the enormity Hundreds of thousands of men to bring them closer and to isolate them from locals One, two! Out, back! Come on, out, back! Officers concerned about keeping up went easy on the usual At this RAF squadron, for example, they decided not to clip the wings to crush the German eagle Amongst all these men, were those who filmed the events, those we never see: students of the British Army Film School entrusted with capturing The youngest among them, He was intent on covering D-Day. Like his colleagues, the ideal rank to stay close to the men. &quot;My camera was welcome, he would say later. On May the 27th, his fellow soldiers the French francs printed by the Allies, much to the anger He saw it as a breach since only France should be allowed For the moment, and had little idea &quot;These men knew &quot;and that created a strange mood,&quot; O'Neill would remark. Another Army cameraman Always wearing his Scottish beret, he had chosen the film corp and to immortalize his brothers in arms. On May 31st, informing them about the country &quot;It was in that camp that we first he would say later. He also filmed the few extra rations as they were readying to face the worst, for it was now a matter of days. On June the 1st, Norman Clague, a cameraman filmed the final instructions He filmed from above It was so as not to reveal would be landing. Even they had little idea Everything was still top secret, the reason they had been kept for the past two weeks. From now on, and his fellow cameramen and the start of their great adventure. The US Army was perfectly equipped. With 1.5 million men, in the south of England In early June, hundreds of thousands before the locals who had gathered All were heading 19 ports on the south coast of England. While British troops embarked in the east, The next time they would leave The Canadians under British command provided 21,000 men. The reversing of 20,000 vehicles so they could drive onto the beaches was a remarkable task in itself. Not to mention the thousands of tonnes over those first two days. To give every chance Eisenhower had taken into account notably the combination of a night and a half tide at dawn for the landings. In the month of June, To catch the enemy by surprise, Ike decided the landings However, the weather worsened. On June the 4th, were heading for the Channel, It forced Eisenhower which had already set sail. Operation Overlord was under threat as any movements carried out so far Day and night, Ike and his team stayed in constant touch However, the news wasn't good. The forecast was poor That would spell disaster. The men would need remotivating and the full campaign In the ports where Eisenhower the wait became unbearable like crocodiles in a waterhole. On that day, June 4th, Desmond O'Neill was at work in a wind He made the following observations. &quot;We just sat there on board with nothing &quot;We didn't lack victuals,&quot; &quot;I had ten men's rations just for me.&quot; &quot;A mood of bitter disappointment &quot;We still didn't know &quot;other than that, &quot;Later, we were told &quot;It didn't mean a thing to any of us.&quot; The Canadians were known and maybe that made them pray so hard Never had religious services been attended in all the ports of southern England. The Americans, meanwhile, because they knew that nothing fatigued which would make them On the evening of June the 4th, the weather forecast Calmer seas were predicted That night, in 30 minutes, Eisenhower took a decision the fleet would set sail On June 5th, the wheels Allied planes attacked to prevent the German rearguard Allied bombers were unparticular They struck Lower Normandy claiming almost 4,000 The bombing raids led to heated discussions The latter was concerned they would cause amongst the French. To the surprise of the Allies, &quot;This is war, On June 3rd in Algiers, General de Gaulle had transformed the French Committee into the Provisional Government Until then, he had been kept silent. The Allies had concealed everything As the liberation of France drew nearer, to ensure the full cooperation On June the 4th de Gaulle left for Britain, He refused to let the Allies However, despite the fact they refused the sensitive general On June 5th at sea, diversion tactics Dozens of small ships Their funnels billowed out steam and to have the Germans believe towards a position far north General Eisenhower is alongside his men, Late in the afternoon of June 5th, a few hours before they took off, They would be amongst the first Ike's smiling face All the more reason for paratroopers and reassure their leader. That evening, till the last plane had taken off. A little farther away, not having their leader there the reconnaissance paratroopers to put on a brave face. Whether real Redskins, or just the white man's myth their scarlet war paint at least to get ready for action. Those without war paint so as to be less visible. As well as their weapons and parachutes, these men would be jumping to signal marked zones where the gliders Three men were needed who had a 50 percent chance That same night, Ike wrote a letter proof of how the Allies &quot;My decision to attack &quot;was based &quot;If any blame or fault &quot;it is mine alone.&quot; However, for weeks, the Allies had been perfecting During the night of June the 5th, German coastal defenses Naval artillery would start firing The British and Canadians would take They were assigned three beaches: located between Ouistreham The Americans would take the left flank The British would need to capture Caen The city was an important through which the Germans It also opened onto flat land, which would allow and planes to land at temporary airfields. The Americans which they planned so that hundreds of thousands of other men needed for the next stage On June 6th, from 3:15 in the morning, Allied planes across every sector of the landings. At dawn, naval artillery took over Omaha Beach near the Cotentin The Americans would have to quickly then join up with their colleagues at Utah After arriving too soon or too late, many of the aerial bombardments Naval artillery didn't fare much better. The early hour of the landings didn't give it enough time to successfully carry out The main part of the attack fell However, attached to them made up of young men To keep out of the range of enemy fire, the landing craft were released The men were crammed in like pack animals. Robert Cappa, the only photographer &quot;When the noise &quot;we hit the deck and lay in our vomit Barely on the beach, the men were greeted It was like a turkey shoot. The wind brought in the tide The following waves of attack forcing the men Unable to advance, they grouped together reduced to sending &quot;Nailed to the spot by enemy artillery.&quot; More like crucified, as shown The rest were accidentally destroyed. Strong currents Men drowned as the weight The sea turned red and Omaha Beach would later The US command A desperate measure those who had already There were already hundreds Their sacrifice would have been in vain. Stopping the operation would open just as the gigantic war machine The morning of June 6th, daybreak revealed an armada approaching the Normandy coast. As always, Ike wasn't far away. At 9:45 AM, I call upon all who love freedom Keep your faith staunch. Our arms are resolute. Together we shall achieve victory. Across a 45-mile front, there was practically one boat with air cover from 11,000 planes. All were painted with white stripes so that Allied artillery Fortunately, not every sector especially since the Germans and still believed the main attack and they were having trouble regrouping. The unbreakable Atlantic Wall as did the German anti-aircraft defenses, Allied Aviation imperviously As the B26s the fighter planes entered into action. Not only were coastal defenses targeted, but airfields too, in order to keep what remained Communication hubs, were all systematically destroyed. The French resistance, having completed its intel now went on the attack in an attempt to stop the Germans The combined action meant that German troops and south of the Loire River Rommel, who from the outset had wanted to counter an invasion, The British 3rd Infantry Division Its mission: to neutralize and take Caen the same day. This unit, the Scotsman filmed by their compatriot were to land at Ouistreham. He wrote, &quot;This was the real thing.&quot; &quot;I filmed the gigantic fleet &quot;as I was more or less at sea level.&quot; &quot;We'd been given good rations &quot;However, with the diesel fumes, most men, &quot;The sky was black with planes.&quot; &quot;Some of them &quot;so we could be told over the loudspeaker &quot;and tell them apart from enemy planes.&quot; &quot;We told the men to ignore the cameras &quot;They were natural actors &quot;living their own experiences.&quot; &quot;I wasn't afraid &quot;Just the desire to get out &quot;that was making them seasick.&quot; &quot;The closer we got to the beach, &quot;In the rush, a ramp broke.&quot; &quot;Everyone converged &quot;You just had to get off &quot;with the your backpack's weight Grant and the others For them, Joining up with the paratroopers Another cameraman the youngest among them, Sergeant O'Neill It was he who filmed &quot;In the thick of that gray smoke, &quot;It wasn't a battle that you could imagine &quot;The exits from the beach were congested.&quot; It was nigh on impossible to get off. &quot;I followed an infantry platoon At this point, the jolting camera He had just time to film before being repatriated for medical care. Farewell, Sergeant O'Neill who captured Sword on that day All lost in the mass of unknowns, Germans who had been taken prisoner A few miles away from Sword, Their mission: What were these young soldiers thinking to land at Bernieres, a small, This is footage the only one to be filmed but by an automatic camera Yet even the cold eye can't fail to capture Soon, the very first French house It would cost the lives of 100 men, which Allied cameramen It was better to focus and the anger that one proud Frenchman The German surrender did nothing by the men on Juno Beach, where a rough sea was causing problems A total of 300 young Canadians The sacrifice wasn't in vain. With the beachhead established, their surviving colleagues Already the first reward, delighted at seeing their country many of whom spoke French Yet at Allied headquarters in Portsmouth, smiling with pride General Eisenhower still seemed anxious. Since dawn, he had been receiving some alarming, like those from Omaha, or in the British sector. From the look on Ike's face, you can tell the battle Because six hours after landing at Omaha, the boys were still stuck The Americans whatever extra backup is required. Even the first assault waves were accompanied ready to take immediate care Never had first aid been so needed where the dead lay Three thousand Americans lost their lives on the most deadly Yet, late in the day, with the sun out had managed to establish more troops began to arrive at Omaha. At last, it was possible to say Now it was on to the next battle General Montgomery arrived two days later and he had cause for concern. Always wanting to have before taking action, he delayed deploying his armored divisions as he was supposed to have done Moreover, his troops, without too much damage, Their cameramen embodied this in a way, strolling around filming asked to pose for the cause. These ones seem more than happy to oblige. On this day, June 8th, Norman Clague, filmed the first moments of appeasement and wounded no longer had anything Five days later, With him, compassion and morbidity However, this footage also illustrates how the British slackened off A slackening of which the Germans Although the German forces as Von Rundstedt had ordered, were unable to reinforce their colleagues Two armored divisions including counterattacked on June 7th, 8th and 9th, barring the road to Caen They also set up their defenses This made the bombing raids Although they did allow to show that its own soldiers as the city's inhabitants. The German Army while for the first refugees, the approach of the liberators The German counterattack also isolated Often dropping at imprecise locations, they had been unable advancing inland from the sea. Many were recaptured, American airborne troops and one in five of their men. All these men had paid dearly for the honor of being the first However, their overwide dispersion at least managed making them believe had been dropped than in reality. Now it was the turn before their comrades-in-arms Ready, aim, fire! Aim, fire! Aim, fire! On June 9th, the Americans which was furiously bombarded The German defense of Isigny from linking up with those from Utah However, with Isigny taken, the Allied front was reunited from Ouistreham However, beyond the rubble, where were the inhabitants Perhaps farther off towards the sea where a French ship With the Allies firmly established it was time to bring in General de Gaulle, leader Charles de Gaulle and stepping onto French soil was no exception. The day before, Churchill, had written to Montgomery, &quot;I must inflict on you &quot;I do not think &quot;it'd be sufficient for him De Gaulle For him, too, time was pressing. Time to tell Montgomery and the British Field Marshal Monty also gave Norman Johnson, the task of following de Gaulle, Although used to working Johnson also thought &quot;It was hard to follow him,&quot; he said, &quot;but luckily, he was tall.&quot; He always had but he did create a good atmosphere. He always ignored the camera, In short, a star in the making. In Bayeux, people everywhere who weren't under the German yoke, Especially as de Gaulle was intent and the men and women of the resistance, before heading to the town hall without referring to the Allies. He denied them any say and forced them to recognize Although men did not need ports to land, to continue the battle for the hundreds of thousands Every day, 150 to 200 ships 15,000 tons of supplies, and thousands of men in the port and the port of Omaha Soon the weather worsened, and once again threatened Normandy hadn't seen Inside the anchorages, The wall of caissons Worse still, some of them broke away, Floating docks and were swept away like flotsam. The storm would last for a full four days, interrupting the supply On the morning of June 23rd, of hundreds of ships and wrecks Although British engineers quickly the US port of Omaha The plan was running ten days late. US troops had to capture as quickly as possible. Although surrounded, Finally, on June 26th, That same day, before a gathered press Lieutenant-General von Schlieben, the commandant of the garrison, Although this giant of a man the young General Collins, he nonetheless balked to prefer death Schlieben even surrendered before his men, who didn't lay down their weapons The Americans which is somewhat understandable. Since D-Day, The average age of the prisoners, showed the decline while its younger, battle-hardened troops fighting the Red Army. Thirty-six thousand prisoners a huge number although they do often take us With Cherbourg taken, of the Atlantic Wall Unlike the faces of their men, those of the captured officers Or was it perhaps shame? After Cherbourg, Hitler decided to personally oversee He removed Von Rundstedt, and replaced him with a more Rommel, dismayed knew that all he could do now Meanwhile, Eisenhower was also worried. Yes, the Americans had taken Cherbourg, but Montgomery the planned launch pad Installed inland, and the possibilities whereas the Allies remained hemmed in The Americans had no choice but to pierce the enemy front Not easy in a region of bocage To see without being seen. A big advantage for the enemy in a battle for which none In this huge checkerboard maze, a handful of resilient combatants When they did concede they simply had to come back American tanks were obliged making them easy targets. Just as they were openly presenting These bocage traps and resulted in a failed attempt &quot;this goddamn country!&quot; With the Americans in difficulty, Montgomery finally decided He asked for backup Over 2,500 tons of bombs Some advance on Caen, as others leave it. No point in even looking at each other. That's life. After two days of fierce combat, 115,000 British troops which was now three-quarters destroyed. On July 13, It had taken him over a month a city he had hoped to take in one day, Clearly in the kingdom of the blind, Although the inhabitants much of the city That didn't prevent from having people of the City of a Thousand Steeples were happy to drink a toast together. &quot;Goodbye, thanks again.&quot; &quot;Don't mention it, pleasure was all mine.&quot; Were such intensive bombing when the German defenses were placed The debate still rages today. Each man and woman Who was this German playing the organ A madman? A filthy Jerry? A music lover? Or a lost soldier of Hitler, simply enjoying a moment's escape A few days later, it was the British Prime Minister He wanted to check the state of operations However much Montgomery he only dominated his car which was still under German Army control. Ten days after taking the city, the British were yet to break and Churchill's agitation For Eisenhower, who had hoped it was a total failure The supreme commander in the discreet three-star general, who had organized the landings at Omaha Eisenhower appreciated his calm, and his effectiveness. Bradley thought the Americans could break The operation codeword: Cobra, like a snake that leans back To help his men get out of bocage country, Bradley had planned to crush with precision bombing raids. Once the breach had been made, his troops would simultaneously advance On July 25th, Allied bombers attacked the road where the two armies faced off. The famous armored division Field Marshal Rommel second in command, American troops could finally leave and force the breakout. It was a long-awaited breach Moreover, seeing the numbers they made a good catch, even if many in the net In the bestiary that Normandy had become, to cut down hedgerows Even before July was over, American armored divisions and Granville, the last ports In early August, the 2nd French Armored Division For months, even years, to fight the Germans Only this time, they were ready to be as victors Leading them was General Leclerc, but valorous and upright. This aristocrat had all the attributes but he chose to follow de Gaulle Now he was landing His division was integrated with which he would finally be able General Bradley's headquarters. Before the lens Montgomery, as always aware of the camera, That is something he was good at. Under pressure from Eisenhower, to leave the organization For a successful outcome, Bradley was also counting The man who wore a Colt 45 in his holster, &quot;At the first fart, they expect me he was famously quoted as saying, and just as well... At dawn, the Germans From the plain of Caen, they launched hoping to drive The attack, planned in person by Hitler, was soon curbed by the rockets &quot;It had no chance of success,&quot; Von Kluge would write It would be the last Worse still for the Germans, at Mortain, Bradley had willfully allowed the enemy Now, they were trapped and the British to the north. Bradley would finally he had been planning for a long time: to catch the enemy in a pincer movement between the British divisions and the US armies in the south, between Argentan and Falaise. As soon as the German counter-offensive Patton and his divisions headed However, some of them and made a wide, sweeping movement While in the north, the Anglo-Canadians The German Army was annihilated. Eisenhower later called the biggest bloodbath He added that only Dante For hundreds of yards, he stepped over dead and rotting flesh. Between 5,000 and 6,000 Germans From the look of those it seems as though Ike It would take several days to evacuate the 30 to 40,000 For them, captivity was a victory: that of life over death. The German Army had mobilized a number Not all of them were prepared to defend The German Army was finished in Normandy. With the Battle of Falaise won, Patton's armies Eisenhower had now attained in Operation Overlord. Now he wanted to move on to the next step, On August 19th, On the ground, the city had risen up. It was the German Army itself which decided Seen from above, heading east without caring too much Footage of a real-life event five Germans in flames. It takes nothing away against the occupiers and the dozens of them who died The next day, de Gaulle showed up Ike wanted to avoid turning Paris He preferred to surround the capital, and to pick the city like a ripe fruit. But the eloquent French leader managed to persuade Eisenhower in order to avoid a possible bloodbath, but also to quash the rise Ike yielded, and Bradley agreed which had won renown at Falaise, and would accept the German surrender. After several fierce battles, the suburb's sky turned blue. Women wore red forming a tricolor world to welcome Leclerc's boys Now, in the city itself, On that day, the gamble of the man back on June 18th, 1940, had paid off. The miracle had happened: France, once crushed and humiliated, now stood shoulder to shoulder Now for the victory parade to reinforce the legend, but that's a very French story. Our story ends the following day At the head of a country whose political de Gaulle had asked Eisenhower to back his authority Eisenhower happily obliged, However, it was modesty alone as de Gaulle took center stage. Eisenhower was intent who would continue the fight The Americans astutely knew when the world they needed France Our story has been high in color, but the original images, In the end, each piece of footage has tells who took part in the Normandy landings, so many of them anonymous Who were you: Or you, turning around? Whoever you are, thank you.