Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of the he's jumping for -- maximum travel experience Thanks for joining us. The Balkans -- that troubled southeastern corner Exploring corners of Croatia, Montenegro, groups of former Yugoslavia: Croats, Serbs, in the sun too, here in Dubrovnik. After a splash of Adriatic resort life, we of peace in Bosnia. We see three local religions and Muslim. Then we head to Mostar, where with an inspiring backdrop. The places we're visiting were all part of the 1990s, splitting into seven countries. and Bosnia-Herzegovina. From Dubrovnik, at Montenegro's Bay of Kotor before exploring in Mostar. The springboard for our Balkan adventure is its title: Pearl of the Adriatic. Confined within its walls as it has been for Croatian coastline looking inviting from both is the heartbeat of the city - a thriving of life, where everybody's out enjoying that an easygoing stroll. Dubrovnik is very touristy, and understandably back-street charm is just a few steps away. here in an age before tourism dominated the The town's imposing architecture is a reminder the salt trade and shipbuilding made Dubrovnik The Sponza Palace is a fine surviving example 16th centuries, combining both Renaissance its stately courtyard takes you back to that Through clever diplomacy, Dubrovnik managed Through all those centuries, the Republic any siege. They stockpiled grain in huge underground Dubrovnik's single best attraction is its mile-long stroll. While constructed over many date from the 1400s, when they were beefed While the walls worked fine against the Turks the city from modern artillery. In 1991, after the Yugoslav army shelled the city, damaging Brighter newer tiles mark the houses that These roofs were rebuilt using the same materials this beloved city, the world paid attention. the scars of that war. We're staying at a small guesthouse at the rooms for rent in private homes - are a much by Pero. Rick: Pero, tell me about the war here in Pero: Well, it was a very difficult time. no water, no electricity, no food, medicine. places around came to Dubrovnik, hoping they Rick: What happened to this house, specifically? mortars right. So this is what I find in my, So the house was hit...no tile so I could Rick: And this house...? old. And it's in my family for more than 200 and I decided to rent it, like a guesthouse. and you have a good business. Rick: And a beautiful house. Congratulations. beautiful here. With the war in the past, the tourists are during the heat and crush of midday. Go for you choose, you'll swim in the shadow of one And evenings in town are peaceful. A hole bar called Buza - just the place for a romantic of the city walls, this tranquil getaway is extraordinary setting. From Dubrovnik, here in Croatia, two other are each just an hour's drive away: Bosnia next. Montenegro, where towering mountains meet of Europe's newest and smallest countries, under a million people. It's a country of landscapes, communist-era decrepitude, and popular with the cruising crowd. Montenegro's Bay of Kotor is an easy day trip out of the Adriatic, surrounding ancient towns a twisty road. The narrow mouth of the bay - easy to defend, ideal and strategic natural harbor. At the Venetian-flavored seafront town of island that comes with a fascinating story. Five hundred years ago, local fishermen found right here. They spent the next two centuries time they sailed by, eventually building the The church - with its legendary icon above of thanks for answered prayers: countless happy brides married here, and paintings of by sailors who survived, thankful for Mary's Tucked among a clutter of nautical artifacts a labor of love created by a local woman. materials available: silk and her own hair. hair of the angels, like the hair of the artist anonymous, she had faith that her work was is, two centuries later, by a steady parade The bay's main town, also called Kotor, has invaders by its imposing wall. Its fortifications then climb up and up to control the strategic Kotor's harbor is now a hit with recreational the Old Town and a main square busy with cafes. seem custom-made for exploring. From Kotor, a small road zigzags 25 times and into the historic heartland of this country. donkey path - was once the mountain kingdom's ridge, we enter another world: an inhospitable farmhouses. The &quot;black mountains&quot; that define Negro. The landscape changes once again as we cross or Bosnia for short. Before we get into Bosnia, let's review the this trip was part of Yugoslavia, which means Slavic peoples.&quot; The country of Yugoslavia until the 1990s. While its ethnic make-up shaped its recent can be subtle and confusing. That's because all South Slavs - they have the same ancestors The defining difference is that they adopted centuries by various emperors, missionaries, Catholic South Slavs are called Croats; Orthodox Muslim South Slavs are called Bosniaks. For visitor can determine the religion or loyalties So we can better understand this troubled of my guidebook to this region, Cameron Hewitt. Rick: It just seems like an unlikely union. had all these different groups in this one able to hold it together successfully. That respected all the diversity within the country, He said that the divisions between the different marble column. long. Tito died in 1980, this very delicate balance started to grab for more power and authority, apart. as a place with so much ethnic baggage - that to happen. no question that this region has a long history lots of warfare. On the other hand, that can't of peace in their history as well. In this advantage of those feelings, manipulating two factors that caused Yugoslavia to fall Rick: It was a horrible war. each group tried to grab for more of what the conflict that introduced the term &quot;ethnic And much of the worst happened here in Bosnia. of cultures. Looking at the architecture, ethnicities - Catholic Croats, Orthodox Serbs, the 1990s, Bosnia was ripped apart by a three-way Cameron: So, after a few bloody years of fighting, finally laid down their arms and agreed to had to actually create a semi-autonomous Serb preserve that balance. Trebinje, nestled along a river in a fertile Serb state, called Republika Srpska. Exploring offering the foreigner a warm if curious welcome. At first, Trebinje felt a bit inaccessible more I observed, the more it seemed essentially the photography studio's window. Parents give love a visit to the snack shack. As always, A grand Orthodox church caps a hill high above While newly painted, the medieval feel of Orthodox faith steadfastly carries on the world. Father Drazen takes a few moments Rick: When I come to this church as a western Father Drazen: Well, because it is an eastern biggest Christian community. Father Drazen: Well, first, Serb is our nation. genes, with our families, with our background. Orthodox faith is also something that makes I would say that the real Serb is an Orthodox Rick: So the Serbian Republic here in Bosnia Father Drazen: The majority of population Rick: In America, we have a word &quot;balkanization,&quot; along. That's this area here. Why is that? And balkanization, as you mentioned, is something a church I think we have a specific role in Rick: One last question. What's this ostrich Father Drazen: Well, it brings life. So in Rick: There you go. Exploring the countryside, we find more reminders this obscure corner of Europe. Heading west, we approach the ethnic boundary the Serbian Republic and entering the half symbols remind those driving where loyalties Serbs' Cyrillic alphabet gives way to more guarding the pass suggests that this has long Mostar, straddling its beloved river, is the Mostar feels Turkish because until the early When the Ottomans vacated, they left behind You feel this Turkish heritage everywhere. in the five-times-daily call to prayer. And by Sultan Suleyman the Magnificent. With its elegant, single pointed arch, the the place where East meets West in Europe. past, Mostar was a place where cultures mingled Muslim Bosniaks lived together in relative But then, as Yugoslavia fell apart in the Neighbors and friends took up arms against out the Serbs. Then the two remaining groups a bloody front line that cut right through Locals, like tour guide Alma Elezovic, lived Rick: You must have powerful memories of living Alma: Yes. You know, we are Muslim, and that time when war start. When war start, they dark. It was like we back five hundred years a million grenades and bullets. We have to us and our families. But evenings bring new find food, see the friends, et cetera. So, of sniper watches all the time, 24 hours. shooting this way? Rick: Was your family OK? many of my friends have been killed here. This street is very symbolic to us. We live Alma: This is a very special place for us. children gather, and sitting here have a nice cemetery because it was exposed too much to people, actually we have the, transform park Rick: And all of the dates...1993. are from '93. Very young people. The conflict reached its peak with a symbolic venerable bridge was pummeled by artillery - it collapsed into the river. While the city has been at peace now since Still, both religious communities seem determined The 10 minarets, rebuilt since the war, once exclamation points. Each Friday, the town's town, twice as high as the tallest minaret, Like the mosques, this new church is busy this, it occurred to me that I've never met called the war anything but a tragic mistake. Mostar is rebuilding...it's moving on, and Soon after the war, the Old Bridge was rebuilt Bridge was immediately embraced as a promising And today, as they have for generations, young a ruckus collecting donations at the top of for more money...and more money...and more Leading up the hill from the Old Bridge is with the flavor of a Turkish bazaar: you'll galleries, and a local twist: old Yugoslav And in the evening, restaurants along Coppersmiths' clamor for your business. Grilled meats are little sausage links called cevapcici. ajvar - that's a condiment made of eggplant a kick. An after-dinner stroll inspires confidence Young and old, everyone's out embracing life. - is designed for big gatherings. And tonight, are raging. Being young and sexy is a great were toddlers during the war. Seeing them to a bright and promising future. While travel in the Balkans has its challenges, complex and the problems are many. But solutions Steves. Until next time, keep on travelin'. Credits: Local fishermen found an icon of the Virgin or not, wow it's so cool. Nothing looks right without some wildflowers our flower grip [laugh]. Nice bum.