Among all the no-code app builders I believe Flutterflow is the only But what makes it God-tier, and is Maybe - so watch to find out. When I say Flutterflow is God 1. That Flutterflow is better than custom code good as custom code, and All I'm saying is based on the metrics Flutterflow scores full marks. In this video, I'll go over the does it all - something no other app Only you decide whether or not it matches We'll also look at criticisms of Flutterflow and why I think any of them Let's start with My 7 No Code App Builder Comparison Metrics The seven metrics are: Customisation options Extend with custom code Templates Code export Success Stories Mobile &amp; Web Documentation Can refer to official guides Taken together, I think it reliable estimate regardless of individual needs, And a few months ago I used it to make One for web. One for mobile. I know different metrics will matter more to All these metrics do is tell you If you're not that thirsty, If you're super thirsty like these And therapy - get therapy. So I ranked 34 no code app builders in total and all of them had shortcomings or were Except Flutterflow - it scored a perfect score. It was the only God tier app including big names like Draftbit and Bubble. If you've never used Flutterflow, Customisation options As far as drag and drop builders go, On the left side you're looking at all On the right, you can edit the properties of It allows you to design your screens And once you become more familiar you can edit their widget tree directly And the last thing I'll touch can set the actions and conditions for This is as good as any app builder Extend with custom code Flutterflow lets you insert custom Widgets Functions, and A widget is any visual element on your app - Functions are code snippets that perform a return value in a certain way. And actions are snippets that affect All this is already great, but Flutterflow also has a code copilot that can write custom Templates You want free app templates? You want premium app templates? You want app screens and elements? You want premade custom code by Flutterflow has all that - I think the b roll Code export Flutterflow lets you download As we can see from this short clip by another your code, store it in git hub, export it, or There was a time where my team and for a project, and this ability to export code in a cross platform language is why Success Stories Flutterflow's success showcase is great. A great mix of different types of apps and what they all have in common is AB money - 100k downloads and 4.9 stars Blue Pass, an intercontinental Not to mention the endlessly updating list A ton of use cases across both web and Mobile &amp; Web Yes, Flutterflow's main focus is mobile But can you build really good Yes! Case in point QuizForm Trust EHR All are built with Flutterflow. And there's more - you just need to So again, Flutterflow's focus But it can do very good web apps too. So if you need both a mobile make more sense to use Flutterflow And the last point, Documentation Their YouTube channel has over It's all organized into playlists And if you prefer reading, then their documentation section You can tell they want the onboarding The topics are sequenced in a logical way where a complete newbie can take baby And let me tell you, there were some Some had great documentation, but only document since there were only Some had great documentation and customization, Or this. OR that. Always falling short somewhere. But not Flutterdlow, So overall, The God-tier app builder. Of course, even gods can be criticized. So we'll take a look at three of Flutterflow's top complaints and I'll share why I 3 Top FlutterFlow Criticisms I'll just list them all out and 1. Steep learning curve 2. Not good for web apps, and I think one word is all you That word is context. For a no-code app builder, FlutterFlow How could it NOT have a steep learning curve? It's a tool - the more powerful the tool, the When people say Flutterflow to me it's not a criticism, So, the first criticism busted. And again, if you take it within context, They're trying to bring up their web So if you need a no-code app builder to Flutterflow shouldn't even But if your project needs both a mobile AND web This criticism is like saying a steakhouse that Well yeah, it's a steakhouse. If you just want a drink, go to a cafe. But if you want a steak and a Second criticism busted. And the third one, oh my lawd. You know who says this? Flutter developers. Let's say you're a no code guy on where it's all love and clouds But you take a wrong turn and end up Flutterflow, you will get spitroasted And if I had to summarize the overall Don't bother with Flutterflow man, This is why context is everything. Not everyone wants to learn how to code. Most don't. Of course, custom Flutter code will perform It's the same thing with In the hands of a competent developer, But how many people who seek competent developers, or developers at all? Imagine asking for restaurant oh just cook it yourself man, Maybe, but maybe I don't wanna spend my 3rd Criticism busted. So we've looked at how Flutterflow has all We've also looked at why the criticisms This all has to do with the target Who is FlutterFlow NOT for? I'd say Flutterflow is not for you if: 1. You're new to no code and not sure what you want to build 3. You just need simple and basic apps, or On the other hand, Flutterflow sounds 1. Can't code but has built no code apps before powerful and robust mobile apps To me this sounds like someone who knows testing, marketing, deploying They just can't code and And that's when it can help But wait, god doesn't exist, so maybe If I've convinced you to give it a try, If you disagree with any of my points, let And if you haven't seen my app builder tier list where Flutterflow was the If you found this video useful, and let's check out how flutterflow spanked