Hi everyone, I'm Elio Romeo. We're in my laboratory here in Lacco Ameno on the Ischia island that I opened last year, in June 2021. After the release of the video about croissant and Italian cornetto, today we're going to talk This product is so popular here on the island that you can find it in every cafe, so the typical breakfast of a person from Ischia is cornetto, both by pastry chefs and bakers like me. My production is based on baked goods in general, but cornetto can never be missing on my window shop. The origin of the cornetto from Ischia is unclear: it is not attributed to any particular pastry chef, but it is a food product that belongs to the people of the Ischia island. Today with me for the preparation of the cornetto is Francesco, my partner, and now we'll discover the ingredients for the preparation of brioche dough. The peculiarity of the cornetto from Ischia is that we're going to make two different doughs: the brioche dough and the puff pastry one, together. This cornetto is different precisely for this peculiarity when compared to the French croissant and the Italian cornetto. To make the first dough for the brioche, we're starting is key: the starter. Brewer's yeast. Half of the butter. We're now adding sugar. The flour we'll be using for this dough is Caputo oro, a flour that is specific for dough for big batches and pastry. It's a great flour, as it absorbs fats optimally. When the dough is done, it will come out very smooth and will rise greatly in the oven. We're now adding aromas, in my case, I'm using a vanilla emulsion. We made it with a Madagascar pod, and we're now proceeding with the liquids, meaning milk and to finish, eggs. The machine will work for a total of about 20-25 minutes divided by first and second speed. After 10-12 minutes from the beginning of the kneading, the machine is now set to the second speed, and we're then adding the remaining butter in three steps, and salt in the end, so as to finish the dough. We're now waiting for the added butter to be absorbed We added all of the butter and we are now closing the dough with the salt. We're waiting for the dough to get elastic and we're stopping the machine. The dough is done, we added all of the ingredients. It seems elastic to the right point, we're verifying with this gesture the correct creation of the gluten net. And we're stopping the machine. We're now proceeding with the cutting, so here we already have 3 kg of flour, and we'll obtain 3 pats. We're cutting it into 2.1 kg pieces. After weighing it, the dough is divided into three and we're folding it lightly. We're giving it a shape, slightly elongated. Let's press it lightly and put it into a container. Our portions of dough will rest for 8-12 hours in a cell at 4degC and then we're working them together with the puff pastry. While the brioche dough is resting, Francesco is weighing the ingredients for the puff pastry. The puff pastry is composed of flour, water, vinegar, salt and butter. It will work in the machine on first speed only, so we'll take out a quite coarse dough, as it will then undergo a lamination process. It will be worked this way. This kind of dough needs to be added all together in the machine, even salt, and we'll let it mix for about 8-10 minutes on the first speed. Just as for the brioche dough, same thing for the puff pastry: we're dividing it into three, In this case, it's 4.7 kg and we're dividing it into three. After that, as we did before, same process: we're folding it lightly. The dough will rest in the cell for 8-12 hours at 4degC, then it will be worked and we're proceeding to the flaking. This is the puff pastry after resting. We're working it in the machine. We're incorporating the butter and we're starting with the first We're now incorporating the butter. For 1.5 kg of puff pastry, we're incorporating 1 kg of butter. We're stopping and making a three fold. Then we're cutting the sides of the dough so as to remove tension to the dough. When performing fold, the dough will be more relaxed and won't lose its shape. Let's close the first phase of folds with this four fold. We're still cutting the sides. And here we can already see the layers of dough. We're now covering the dough formation of crusts, and we're allowing it to rest for at least one hour After one hour of rest, the puff pastry is ready for the last three fold and the last four fold, so as to incorporate it with the brioche dough and start creating the cornetto. The dough should rest, because when a dough is we say it 'gets nervous', a tension so high it can potentially break So we're now resting it also in order to keep a cold temperature and obtain a malleable dough. We're moving it again to the cell. rest, then we're incorporating the brioche dough and proceeding with stretching the cornetto. We're now working the brioche dough. We're doing the same procedure and incorporating them. We're overlapping the dough. This last fold will create the distinctive feature of the cornetto, meaning you'll notice the layers of brioche pastry and puff pastry. We're always cutting the dough. After half hour in the cell, always at 4degC and then we're ready to stretch the dough and shape the cornetti By incorporating the brioche dough and puff pastry and the butter we added in the puff pastry, this dough we'll obtain around 50 cornetti. We're ready. We now stretched our dough, it is ready to be worked. We're cutting cornetti. We'll add custard cream aromatized with lemon, and the popular Neapolitan black cherry. My cornetto is about 28 cm in lenght 8 to 10 cm. We're now removing the excess dough, so as to bring the height of the cornetto to 28 cm. The classic triangle cut. Cornetti is ready to be filled. Now Francesco will help us with the custard cream Let's say this pairing with cream and black cherry is typical of our cornetto. There's various techniques to shape them, but I use this one. I'm creating a small container, so it holds the cream while cooking and then I'm folding it and rolling it on itself. When this is done, I'm creating a light curvature. After we rolled our cornetti, we're allowing them to rise at a room temperature between 26 and 28degC. With the quantity of yeast that we used today, we'll need at least 8 hours. As you can see, the volume doubled and the cornetti is ready to be moved inside the oven. We're brushing we're adding grains of sugar. We're then adding sugar grains, typical of cornetto. We're baking it in the oven at 200degC for 12-14 minutes. Our cornetti are done, we're taking them Here is our cornetti from Ischia. The first thing we can notice is wooden color of the brioche dough, the sugar grains and We can see the layers, meaning the puff pastry and the brioche. our black cherry and now This is my cornetto from Ischia. We had lots of fun, you can try and do it in your home and if you want to, visit me in my laboratory, here in Lacco Ameno on the Ischia island! Greetings to all friends of ItaliaSquisita!