In 2015, there was huge excitement in the then, the best image we had of the Pluto system Pluto, but it is so small and distant, the variation. But in 2015, this all changed. the New Horizons space probe flew by the dwarf Pluto and its moons like we had never seen New Horizons probe see and discover during it been doing since the flyby? I'm Alex with me in this video and I will show you to the Pluto system and beyond. Let's first case you are new to Pluto, or if it's been is a remarkably pretty, tiny world, much smaller Belt, a disperse belt of asteroid or comet Pluto was the last of the traditional 9 planets from us, but also because - can you believe celestial object. Thankfully, the team behind be approved, and in 2006, New Horizons was program, for medium budget space missions. as soon as possible, and as such, New Horizons spacecraft on the most powerful rocket available whizzed past the moon in only 9 hours. The its way to Pluto, it used Jupiter as a gravity time. It also used Jupiter as a trial run and images of the planet and its moons. After hibernation mode to prevent the wear and tear in 2015, the team turned the systems back back images of the Pluto system. This was following the story. We began to get hints saw how different Pluto was from its biggest higher and higher, and more details could goals for the mission, but the most interesting there could be seen what looked to be a heart the New Horizons probe made its closest approach, However, mission controllers didn't get too busy taking a lot of photos during the transfer commenced, they had to deal with to that, there was a 4.5-hour latency between saw and sent back was spectacular: mountain It also had a good look at some of Pluto's actually discovered during this flyby. One its unusual relationship with its moons. For very closely to Pluto, and is also very big of the two objects, or in other words, their object. They actually both orbit around a are tidally locked to each other. This means move from that point in the sky. This is very locked to their parent planet, the planet is very different visually from Pluto being the same origin. The rest of Pluto's moons Their orbits are exceptionally circular and geology of Pluto is very interesting. The heart shape, which wowed the world when it Sputnik Planitia. It is the size of Texas, surrounding area. This is because it is a it was confirmed that 98% of Pluto's surface temperature on the surface of Pluto is -229c, On the other hand, nitrogen ices at this temperature flow as glaciers. This can especially be seen into the gaps around the craters and mountain polygon shapes across the entire area. There a relatively new feature, or a feature that only 10 million years old. The polygonal cells by sublimation, the process of an ice turning here regularly, creating troughs and pits, cells. These cells are moving and can be seen the region through slow moving glaciers. Sputnik Antarctica, in that it controls the climate for certain, Sputnik Planitia could have formed in from a potential subsurface liquid ocean. gravitational anomaly. A gravitational anomaly from elsewhere on the object. The ice plain would align it up with the objects' tidal and Charon, tidal effects are very strong why Pluto is tidally locked to Charon and other. ranges made of water ice, which, when viewed ice is the only type of ice detected on Pluto of several kilometres at this temperature. might also be some which are cryovolcanoes, Mons. It is 4 kms tall, one of the highest in the centre. Cryovolcanoes could be a contributing an extremely interesting region called Tartarus set of 500-meter-high mountains that resembles be Penitentes. If that is true, Pluto is the Earth where they have been observed. Even be found in the Atacama desert and other dry, much taller and cover a much vaster area than like close up. Another obvious feature of sprinkled on the surface in some areas. The It is weirdly reminiscent of a whale in shape, Pluto is much more heavily cratered than the much older. Mountain ranges can be seen in what is thought to be methane ices. Methane on Pluto. The dark colour is thought to be of hydrocarbons that have interacted with one of Saturn's moons, Iapetus, so the process Scientists suspected this substance was tholins back, but its distribution over Pluto's covered? Also, how dynamic are the processes Pluto looked like this for a while, or is that these tholins may well be connected to one of the few objects in our solar system surface. Water from either the mantle or from over the surface of Pluto, creating a varied just water found in these eruptions, but tholins suggested that Pluto was getting redder, and reddest time of its year. And New Horizons called Viking Terra, we see a cryovolcano the immediate surroundings. Just next to this by this slurry during another eruption. By flowed down and pooled. This can also be seen trough where this slurry has travelled down. tholins is not found on Pluto itself, but this enhanced colour image of Charon, what its north pole. Incredibly, because Pluto's mixture some of it escapes Pluto altogether The tholins are localised here because Pluto they only ever show each other one face. Poetically from Charon in this eternal waltz. This means on Charon, rather than all over. And speaking been made about it too. It is a water ice nitrogen ice. As such, it doesn't really water ice is locked to the surface. On Pluto, seasons, meaning Pluto's atmospheric density the course of its year. With this sublimating appearance may change dramatically over the For me, the most impressive discovery that Pluto has an atmosphere. And not only that, small size and weak gravity, the atmosphere Pluto. Earth's atmosphere, while being much hugs the planets comparatively tightly as pressure on Pluto, on the other hand, is exceptionally times weaker than the surface pressure on increase to as much as 18 to 280 millibars, a quarter of the surface pressure on Earth. at some points in its orbit it is closer to temperature rise causing the surface ices there is evidence of in the ice plains. But atmospheric density similar to Mars was 900,000 the conditions could even be right for liquid evidence of this might be found here, in what within just one year, Pluto's atmospheric seasonal variations. That is a massive contrast atmospheres, which generally stay pretty consistent. condensed on the surface, namely nitrogen, discovery New Horizons made about the atmosphere layers themselves were not unexpected, but seen in some of these images, acting like be seen streaming through one such layer in clearly seen in contrast to the sunlight shining to be level across the planet. Here you can but on this side of the image it touches the most breath-taking photos of Pluto, and I truly appreciate depth and the scale of the toy replica due to the extreme topographical because Pluto is so small, and its gravity June 2020, scientists released a paper stating be an ocean of liquid water, very much like thought that Pluto formed cold, being so far New Horizons suggests that this is not the means it's always had an ocean, and if that on Pluto may be just as good as habitability is the standard for dwarf planets found in more habitable worlds out there. How do we of expansion, not contraction on its surface. apart, not folding over itself. If this is bombardments from other planetesimals heating it could be that shortly after it was formed it was once an ocean world. This really puts formed. While the total absence of craters how few craters there are on Pluto and Charon their surfaces are young, but perhaps the than we may have first thought. The flyby started heading deep into the Kuiper belt. at this point that when it looked at our closest different place from New Horizons' perspective effect, something I've done a video about examples. It's just mind-boggling to me relative to us, so much so that Alpha Centauri Conversely, however, New Horizons has travelled it's made to the view of our closest neighbour. its flyby of Pluto back in 2015, it barely encounter actually took it further into the far from Earth, it is largely unchartered So, did the New Horizons team know of an object its name is Arrokoth. But incredibly, they New Horizons was launched. So, what is Arrokoth? unlike anything we have ever seen before? time had been given to the New Horizons team could locate an object for New Horizons to three new objects reasonably close to where the data, the 35 km long object now known would be the first object visited that was was launched. New Horizons was healthy and left in its tank and years left in its RTG, by the mission team to adjust its course so new target. Being so small and far away, we could detect was its colour, and the dips scientists also observed Arrokoth's occultation they were able to predict the shape of Arrokoth, was almost exactly right. At the very least, so potentially a contact binary or simply New Horizons to confirm their predictions. 2018, New Horizons began its approach phase this distance, Arrokoth was barely visible stars. But by December 2018, it was bright New Horizons was rapidly gaining on Arrokoth, beginning to be collected. As New Horizons could start to be resolved. It was bizarre and it was relatively crater free, with a or comets we had ever seen up close before. its closest approach at a distance of only day that it captured most of its science data. object ever visited by a spacecraft, being roughly 45 times further away than the Earth data transfer speed was abysmally slow between second (although I will mention that it's for them to communicate with New Horizons meant that it's taken around 2 years to back to Earth. The highest priority data was I do remember at the time that the highest Only low-resolution images were available stories of the flyby, meaning I would guess Arrokoth in all of its glory. So, here it of this fascinating object, in true colour. is that it is reddish in colour, unlike most and darker. It's red because of a similarity of tholins on its surface. Tholins are organic and cosmic rays. Organic compounds on the at one point, however Arrokoth does not have to its low mass. What Arrokoth's spectra cyanide and water ice on the surface. The is the main factor behind its red colour, of the tholins. However, there is a bit of there is also an absorption band at 1.8 mm not know what this compound is. It is yet before. It's a shame we weren't able to say for sure. The next thing you'll notice to home is the absence of small impact craters. of the Kuiper Belt itself. It could have 20-200 lot of this mass is also contained within While we can't say for sure what the population spread out than our asteroid belt simply because circumference. Being this far from the Sun if an impact does occur, it will be at a low stars in the Earth's atmosphere may hit Kuiper Belt may only be at speeds of 300m/s. may not actually have been formed from a collision, of volatile substances just under the surface. see of Arrokoth now is like a time capsule has been preserved for billions of years. this object may have come into being. When other at high speeds, they either cause craters But a slow collision, like those in the Kuiper It may also be that the two lobes of Arrokoth ice fragments that coalesced into two orbiting and closer until they joined together. In very slowly because there really aren't so the max speed of the collision would be have also had to have been tidally locked that both lobes of Arrokoth look very similar in the same region. Before Arrokoth got its by a different name, as it was originally lobes are known as Ultima and Thule. You'll surface. The ones in the crater are probably the sinkhole appeared. The other major bright between the two lobes. It's not known with theories suggest that this region sees the substances can build up here, like ammonia would be the centre of gravity of the object, in the centre. With a density of only 0.5g/cm3, but it is probably porous. Volatile materials over time due to an internal heat source, surface, leaving behind only rocky remains to some degree, as models suggested that Arrokoth found that it was in fact 29 K. That is still we were expecting. There's one last mysterious apparent from these images, that only got Horizons data, and that is that Arrokoth is We didn't notice it at first because Arrokoth too much of it lit up from a side angle. We it was due to centrifugal forces when the a lot faster than it is today. Or maybe it's meaning one side of the object is constantly This would cause volatile substances to escape when the other side is exposed to the Sun. As New Horizons left Arrokoth, it looked back against the backdrop of stars. Who knows if may be that this is the last up-close view for New Horizons? Well, it still has life so the hunt is now underway to search for follow in the path of the Voyagers, passing in the 2030s. Even if no other Kuiper belt current trajectory that it can do a third proposals for an extended mission that will to convert New Horizons into a highly-productive astrophysics and heliospheric observations New Horizons is the only spacecraft in the and far enough away to perform some unique range from unique new astronomical observations for free-floating black holes and the local of the faint optical and ultraviolet light has already given us a wealth of data on Kuiper about otherwise. Who knew that this is what cap? That Arrokoth would be flat? And considering ever seen up close, there's bound to be to surprise us. Thanks for watching! If you check out some of the other spacecraft videos to my patrons and members for supporting the videos, and have your name added to this list, All the best, and see you next time.