- Let me show you something unbelievable. Name a random number between 1 and 100. - 61. - Okay, that's pretty random. - [Emily] Just name a random - 43. - 56. - I want the most random like totally random. - 11. - 37. - [Interviewee] 79. - 91. - 3. - [Derek] 37. - [Derek] Why 37? - I dunno, it's the first number - 44. - 37. - 4. - 7. - [Emily] Really? (Derek speaking in foreign language) - 13. - 37. - 73. - 35. - [Emily] 37, no way! - 43. - 37. (Derek gasping) - I knew you were gonna do it. He just &quot;37-ed&quot; and walked away. - Between 1 and 100. - Ah, no thanks. - 37. - [Emily] Oh, perfect. Thank you so much. - 83. - 37. - 87. - 37. (Emily gasping) Can I shake your hand? - [Derek] I love the thought - 37? Are you real? - Did we ask you this already? - Random number between 1 to 100. - 37. - [Derek] Name a random - 37. Why? - It's a good number, I guess, any number. - [Derek] Where did that come from? - Imagination, I suppose. - So, what's going on? Well, people are actually really bad at selecting things randomly. In fact, when asked to people reliably select blue and 7 the most across dozens of different cultures. Psychologists have a The blue-seven phenomenon. And when picking a random it has long been suggested that the equivalent of is the number 37. My producer, Emily, and I to test this theory. The most common answer was 7, but maybe that's because that we'd ask them for The most common two-digit much to our surprise. (Derek and Emily gasping) So we decided to embark on on the number 37. And it took us to some unexpected places. - I think 37 is a fascinating number. It's just really interesting How many objects are there that have a 37 on them? I'm sure there's more than 1,000 here. I built the 37 Website in 1994. I started getting email from I'm trying to collect them all. We're tireless. The tireless cabal of 37 people, yeah. - Apparently, people choose 37 so reliably that there's even a widespread that relies entirely on to just pick 37 out of thin air. It's called The 37 Force. - I'm gonna ask you to think It's a two-digit number, less than 50. Both numbers are odd, but different. You could have 19, 17, or 15, but not 11. Because you see both numbers are the same, You ready? One, two, and three. What number did you think of? - [Audience] 37. Fascinating. In the famous Stanford MIT Jargon File, the origin of hacker slang, 37 is given as the random number of choice for computer programmers. "When groups of people are polled to pick a random number between 1 and 100, the most commonly chosen number is 37.&quot; (graphic buzzing) The thing is, no formal The best we found was a from four years ago, and the most popular number was... 69. But after that, the winning number was 37. But we can do better than a sample size of just 1,000 people. So we conducted the largest In a community post 3 weeks ago, we asked people to pick a We received 200,000 responses. Here are the results as they came in. It's fascinating to watch how consistent these from 10,000, to 100,000, all the way up to 200,000 respondents. The distribution barely changes, suggesting that people think about random numbers and it is decidedly not random. Ignoring the extremes of the scale because people were primed by the numbers 1 and 100 and ignoring 42 and 69 there are a few numbers that stand out, which we seem to regard as 7, 73, 77, and 37. (pensive music) Then we asked people to pick the number they thought the fewest others would pick. The goal was to get rid of and give truly random selections. And here, the results were even clearer. Again, ignoring the very the most selected numbers which were nearly tied. The actual least-picked number followed by 30, 40, 70, 80, and 60. Multiples of 10 apparently The most picked overall were 73 and 37. (pensive music) Ironically, all this evidence points to 37 and its inversion, 73, So why does everyone pick them? Well, one argument is that this is just how 37, does that feel random to you? - Yeah. Yeah, it does. - [Derek] Yeah, 50 wouldn't be random? - No. - It would be too contrived. - [Derek] Yeah. - I think people think that even numbers are less random than odd numbers. - 5 feels not random, 9 so people tend towards 3 and 7. - This is backed up by the fact that every one of the consisted of 3s and 7s. In fact, 3 and 7 were on both questions. But there's also a mathematical case for humanity's number of choice because it's not just odd numbers, but specifically primes, which feel like the most random numbers. Notice how we ignore odds ending in 5s or how something like 39 still feels a little less random than 37? Primes feel random for First, they don't appear I mean, pixel counts, fruit We live in a composite world that multiply together, so we just don't see primes Second, we don't have If you have a prime number and you want to find the next one, you have no choice but until you find a prime. The closest thing we have to a formula is the prime number theorem, which gives the approximation that the nth prime number occurs around n times natural log of n. For example, the 1,000th prime number should be around 6,908. And it's close, but certainly not exact. So primes essentially occur at random, but of all the primes, 37 (pensive music) If we were to find the prime we would see that 2 is for exactly 1/2 of them, all of the even numbers. And 3 is the smallest prime factor for 1/6 of all numbers, anything that's divisible As we pick larger and larger primes, they form the smallest prime factor for fewer and fewer integers. But, what if we track the of each number? Well, first, we have 3, which is the second Only when the number is or divisible by 6. So 1/6 of all numbers have And as we keep going, which number will end up This is the median second all numbers from 1 all and off to infinity. Would you believe that that number is 37? (pensive music) Let's take a look at 5. 5 is the second prime factor only when a number is but not 2. Or 5 and 2, but not 3. In the first case, a means it's divisible by 15, so that's 1/15 of all numbers. But it also can't be divisible by 2. So 1/2 of 1/15 is 1/30 of all numbers. In the second case, a number divisible by 5 and 2 means it's divisible by 10, but it cannot be divisible by 3. So we're left with 1/10 times 2/3 equals 1/15 of all numbers. Adding up these two cases, we get that 1/10 of all numbers have 5 as their second prime factor. And we can repeat this Just take each of these cases and add them up to get have a second prime factor of 7. And so on. Keeping a running total, we quickly approach a balancing point for the second prime And then we reach it. So the median second prime Half of numbers have a second There are other remarkable It's an irregular prime, a a sexy prime, a permutable And at this point, mathematicians might just be - 37's identity as a that the same day I first I learned it was prime. This was one of my first It teaches you every number from 1 to 100 with a short story or fun fact for each. So for 26, that's how many Or for 30, they give Or for 52, that's how Except 37. (pages rustling) It's a prime number. Nothing goes into it. Someday, you'll understand. I did not like that. I understood every other number, so I also wanted to understand 37. So, that number has nagged me ever since, and now this video is being - [Derek] Not convinced yet? - If you take a number that like 1, 3, 6, 9, that's 37 squared, and then you reverse it, and then you stick a 0 then that number is a multiple of 37. And I literally spent trying to prove that Just rattle off a six-digit number. Tell me any six-digit number. - 413,625. - And it's not divisible by 37. So how did I figure that out? There's a trick for that. - Is this your like party - Surprisingly, it doesn't impress as many I think it should impress everybody. - But there's also a practical reason 37 is an important number for humanity. Say you are faced with a choice that is both immediate and final, like whether to rent the or whether to accept a Or it can be as small as whether to stop the next These are all problems where you can't assess and then decide. With each option you encounter, you need to decide whether to and see what comes next. In these scenarios, it feels impossible to If you select too early, you'll probably never But if you select too late, well, then you've probably So your best bet is There, you know at least some information from the options you've seen, and you have some choice, But how do you know The optimal strategy looks like this. First, you need to see some options and reject them automatically just to learn what's out there. And then at a certain stopping point, S, you need to stop rejecting them and start evaluating whether an option is the best you've seen so far. If it is, then select it. But when should that stopping point be? We need to work out which stopping point maximizes our chances of We can calculate these chances. For each spot, find the probability that the best option is located there times the probability we get Then, add these probabilities Now, the chance of the best is just random. If there are N options in total, it's 1/N, but it's a little harder to find the chances of Say the best option is in What are the chances we get there? Well, since this is the next spot over from the stopping point, we have 100% chance of getting there. So we are guaranteed to But if the true best well, there's a small If the best of all the previous options is sitting in spot S + 1, we would just pick that and stop looking before reaching S + 2. There's a one in S + 1 So the chances we do get to spot S + 2 to pick the true best or S over S + 1. This same calculation continues We only get here if we've been passing which means that one must have been the best of the total N - 1 options we've seen. In total, this gives us the expression 1/N times 1, + S over S + 1, plus all the way up to S over N - 1. Factoring out the S, the sum inside the parentheses approximates the function (pensive music) Taking that integral, we get So the probability we is S over N times the To maximize this probability, we can find the peak of this function by setting its derivative to 0, and this gives the natural So S over N equals 1 over e, or about 37%. So explore and reject 37% of options just to get a sense of what's out there, and then pick the first that's better than all of And your chances of success are also 37%. (pensive music) This math question is known or the marriage problem, as it also applies to or even deciding on the best life partner. Now, it can be impractical because you don't always know how many candidates are out there, but the 37% rule also works for time. So if you want to get then spend the first 3.7 and then select the next person who's better than anyone you've seen. (pensive music) So 37 is actually important to our lives, and people seem to We gravitate towards (pensive music) (film clicking) - 37 seconds. - 37 years. - 37 patties? - [Speaker 1] I was 37. - [Speaker 2] 37 cubic feet. - [Speaker 4] 37. - How many enemies do you have? - 37. - Yes! - [Speaker 6] 37. - 37 hours. - Destroyed 37 restaurants. - 37. - 37 interlocking bronze gears. Page 37. 37 years old. 37 prototypes. 37%. (uplifting music) This collection of images, everything you're seeing on by one man over the course of his life. And you already know who it is. - It's just fun, right? The whole thing is just fun. How many objects are there that have a 37 on them? This is probably on the order There's probably not 10,000, but I'm sure there's more than 1,000 here. Nutri-Grain granola bars, 37 grams. It's a 37-inch yardstick. It's just some political but there's no reason that guy had to have Jersey number 37. A nail that I found somewhere I don't even know what that means. One time, my mom gave They all have 37 in the serial number. - Was your 37th birthday like - I had a big party and I The Texas state lottery was $37 million. So I had two different friends who both gave me 37 lottery tickets. I didn't win, I won 5 bucks. This is an article from when they found It's just clipping after clipping. How many hundreds of these I must have gotten that in But I don't remember what it was. Was it like a locker number? I wouldn't steal a locker number. I've never stolen for 37. (speaker 1 laughing) - Look at that. Stolen from the highway - [Speaker 1] I heard you say, - I have committed a crime. - There was a bookstore on campus when I was an undergrad at KU, and there were 37 steps in that staircase. Useful facts, these are useful facts. - Do you feel like everyone or do you feel like - That's a good question. You know, the reason I started was because it seemed I started back in the '80s. There was a comedy routine and he went through this sort about the number 37, like there are 37 holes in the (jaunty music) Shakespeare wrote 37 plays. There's 37 movements in There are all these amazing coincidences that he rattled off. I was amazed and I've been Yeah, so 43? 43 years, probably. (jaunty music) I built the 37 Website for I don't know how the but somehow it got out there. I started getting email from strangers. I've got... Oh, maybe a half a dozen who, every week or month, will post their latest batch of 37s that they've seen out and about. - And they've been - 18 years. - Wow. The tireless cabal of 37 people, yeah. - Do you have anything to say &quot;37, that's just a base-10 - I am also interested the number 37 in all of its various other forms: Roman numerals; binary numbers 100101, by the way; numbers in any other base. Yeah, 25 in hexadecimal. 45 in octal. - And do you think you're and collecting 37 for your whole life? - Yeah, yeah, I can't Yeah, for sure. - So maybe there's even something innately universally special about this number. (pensive music) We can argue special but we need to finally address The sheer amount of brain power 37 secretly takes up in It's humanity's go-to random number, one of our most prominent prime numbers, and most of all, our ideal Maybe that's why we're It feels right to us as where Though with this video, we may have ruined I mean, the next time anyone asks people to pick a random number between 1 and 100, more people than ever (pensive music) - It's been the story of my life that I intend to take and turn them all into But the website's been and it hasn't happened. It doesn't look like - Maybe on the 37th anniversary, - That's a good idea. That's a good idea. Because I have time to do and that would be... That's a great idea. - Once our video comes out, do you want people to write you with any instances they see of 37? You might get swamped, for a little bit. - 37 is out there, it's everywhere. I'm trying to collect them all. Bring it. Yes, bring it. (graphic beeping) - Our intuition is one of the and the number 37 is just one example of the unseen patterns in our minds. Luckily, there's a way to giving you the skills to and uncover hidden truths about our world. And you can get started right now for free with this video sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant gets you hands-on with concepts, in everything from math and data science to programming and technology, to help sharpen your thinking and build your problem-solving skills. On Brilliant, you'll learn by doing. So even abstract concepts, just click. Plus, you'll be able and apply it to real-world situations. With every lesson, you'll also be building training your brain to use your intuition to draw powerful insights. There's so much to learn on Brilliant. They have thousands of interactive lessons to feed your curiosity. And because each one is bite-sized, it's easy to learn something new, even if you only have The best part is you right on your phone. So wherever you are, you can be building real knowledge and honing your intuition. To try everything Brilliant for 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium. Scan this QR code or click on the link in the description, and you'll get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription. So I wanna thank Brilliant for sponsoring this part of the video, and I wanna thank you for watching.