Throughout history, our planet has been through at least twice. From the poles to the equator, the Earth was Today, the landscape has transformed, the are wondering what secrets could be concealed This is the second-largest ice sheet on Earth. It has an impressive thickness of nearly 2 area of Greenland. Here, rapid glaciers like Jakobshavn move day, reshaping the landscape, while coastal meters], about the height of the Statue of But these things are not what makes the island To this day, the frozen surface hides all But scientists have already started uncovering difficult to predict... [LOGO] Although Greenland is [836,000 square miles the size of Texas, its total population is density in the world. Frigid temperatures make the majority of the But along the southwest coast, the warming temperatures, creating a comfortable habitat. That's where the third of the population In the central part of Greenland, temperatures The snow there never melts, gradually accumulating When new snow falls on the Greenland Ice Sheet, density about 50-70 kilograms per cubic meter. As it gets covered with new layers, all this their density. At a depth of over 260 feet [80 meters], air further, and snow solidifies into glacier In total, there's 695,000 cubic miles [2.9 which is thought to have been there for hundreds But Greenland wasn't always frozen. Beneath its icy cover lies a colossal rocky life thrived amidst valleys, rivers, and numerous Even today, not all of Greenland is ice-covered. Moving to the southernmost reaches of Greenland, forested area on the island. As temperatures continue to rise, it's possible the spread of vegetation to other parts of In 1966, US military scientists drilled through discovering a once-green past. They found twigs, leaves, and unique, perfectly Scientists describe their state as freeze-dried. If you pour some water on them, they unfurl, yesterday. About 400,000 years ago, parts of Greenland cold and windy area without trees, but with Today, all this serves as a time capsule, ecosystems. Greenland's thick ice sheet acts as an insulator the frigid temperatures and winds above. Meanwhile, the Earth's internal heat warms In some areas, the ice sheet is firmly attached But closer to the edges of the ice sheet, the ice is laying over a moist soil. If there's enough water beneath, it can make And this more rapid flow rate can potentially Currently the ice sheet in Greenland melts year - enough to fill almost 91 million gallons of water each! And if it melts entirely, the global sea level causing devastating damage to millions of According to a study made in 2019, around regions. By 2050, this number could surpass well over Right now, Greenland loses more ice than it Although, it will probably take a long time The staggering magnitude of the ice sheet so much pressure that it led to a depression [300 meters] below sea level. And the same thing happened about 20,000 years Earth lower into the crust. Ice sheets were all over the world: Scandinavia, Canada were all covered in ice. And currently, something interesting happens Think of our planet's surface as a massive, Press down on it, and it'll compress, but start going back to its initial form. In a similar way, as ice sheets shrink, the territories adjust by sinking. This process is very slow, and some regions United States East Coast will continue sinking Compared to other parts of the Earth, regions sea levels. Today, Greenland is anything but green. But scientists have already been able to have what the island's been hiding for centuries. In 2013, a new canyon was discovered. It's over 460 miles [750 kilometers] long, feet [800 meters] deep. This makes it more than one and a half times miles 446 kilometers]. Up to this date, it's the longest canyon Although you can't see it just yet, the of ice. The subglacial canyon was probably once the flood events that pushed water through the And it can still carry melted water deep below Once, Greenland even had a massive lake, covering as large as Rhode Island and Delaware combined. It drew water from at least 18 streams, reaching Today, the ancient lake is a depression filled it was water, instead of ice, that shaped Decades of ice-penetrating radar surveys revealed of meters above sea level. Their sharp ridges and deep valleys affect which takes on the shape of the hidden mountainous And then, there are submerged fjords - hundreds by the glacial forces. Greenland's glaciers are constantly moving, mountains that act like obstacles. They guide the flow of the melting ice, changing And fjords are like pathways that icebergs The island's icy veil doesn't only hide of natural resources. Geological surveys suggest the presence of Elements found in Greenland's bedrock, such crucial in the production of modern electronics, high-tech applications. The island's subglacial terrain could also and platinum. But also, there's water, and a lot of it. Locked within the vast expanses of the Antarctic 68% of the Earth's freshwater supply. Greenland's unique geological features hold - a sustainable alternative to traditional The idea is to harness heat from Earth's interior The process is known as heat flow, and the flow three times higher than the island's Unlike fossil fuels, geothermal power generation Perhaps, one day, Greenland will be humanity's All this makes Greenland a treasure trove But it's also a place where Mother Nature In 2010, scientists stumbled across peculiar At first, they thought these might be Ghost But as it turned out later, they were wrong. Known as jellyroll sculptures, they are icy Thickness: 3,300 feet 1,000 meters] as big dozens of them in Greenland. Just imagine how vast the space between the be to fit something this massive. The gigantic features are made of an unusual is rather twisted or rolled, and it can be Using radar imaging, researchers discovered 0.6 miles [1 kilometer] below Greenland's The island was long considered like a layered Although as you go deeper, peeling off layer flat. The ice down there looks more like it's Now, there's a lot of science behind how from the bottom up when the ice sheet melts It's somewhat like building a sand castle base, adding substance to the lower layers. Similarly, the refrozen ice adds to the layers, the seemingly flat surface that's been forming But deep below the mighty ice sheet, there's Back when Greenland was still a temperate 0.9 miles across [1.5 kilometers]. The impact was probably millions of times to cause earthquakes of magnitude 9 and massive Luckily, it all happened after the dinosaurs the first humans. The asteroid left behind what's known today crater, which is currently sitting below 3,000 Discovered in 2018, its location played a The crater is lying under the northwestern from below the sheet contained sediments that and extreme heating. By studying sand grains, researchers determined mind-blowing 58 million years ago. Greenland stands as one of the Earth's most of our planet's past. We have barely scratched the surface of this studies will be conducted. And who knows what other secrets may lie dormant be unveiled... What secrets might this almost alien expanse Clues to our planet's future, extraordinary Let us know in the comments section below. Stay tuned for more thrilling discoveries thanks for watching!