In the land of the pharaohs, a man seeks answers Here on this barren site, a mission is underway and with it, a pharaoh lost to history. For French archeologist Vassil Dobrev, it's the dream of coming face-to-face If we have untouched Saitic burials here, we might have something Unraveling the tale this Egyptologist From now, This is a story of family intrigue, political conspiracy, and the pursuit of eternal life. His wife is a priestess of Hathor. Following the few clues this man will attempt in his quest for the lost pharaoh. Near Cairo, the most celebrated on the west bank of the Nile. Thirteen miles from Giza, the world's first pyramid, rises from the plateau of Saqqara. On a two-and-a-half-mile stretch They are part of the site During the period other pharaohs were buried here. However, four of the six dynasty rulers Between the first king, Teti, a pharaoh named Userkare rose to power To find signs of this missing pharaoh [French spoken audio] Treasures from the past but the only way to find them Two researchers from the French archeologist Vassil Dobrev are mapping the site. A GPS system will capture the signals The goal is to document all signs and perhaps find new pharaonic tombs. While scouting the site, Vassil pictures Four thousand two hundred years ago, the funerary complex of the king, was at the hub of the economy. Daily life unfolded The fertile land of Egypt The entire population served the pharaoh. People from all walks of life Among them were high dignitaries who accessed the mortuary temple Today, these monuments are in ruins, but what remains Archeologists have noticed that pharaohs built their pyramids in precise geographic order. All the tombs are lined chronologically from the first For 15 years, Vassil has been dreaming He thinks this site is large enough that had never been finished. If his hunch is correct, it would belong the second pharaoh of the Sixth Dynasty. This simple hypothesis The pharaoh's architects for the construction of the royal tomb. They want to make sure formed by the other pyramids. The Pharaoh Userkare arrives from Memphis, with his consort and royal entourage. He is here to oversee The building of this monument will be the single most important For Userkare, the pyramid His consort will assist him Transformed into the goddess Seshat, she will immortalize the ceremony of the royal tomb. As he inhales her divine breath, Four thousand two hundred years later, the site of Tabbet el-Guesh for an archeological dig. Vassil decides to begin excavating below the site's highest point. He will dig layer by layer, This method seems to work. A few weeks later, the earth yields Less than two feet below the surface, ancient remains Skeletons and a wooden sarcophagus. Near the sarcophagus of an adult, Here we see the nose. The sarcophagi are intact and have not been opened It looks like a woman. It's a woman and her child. Only a single, is found next to the coffins. The archeologists prepare At the site, excitement gives way [Arabic spoken audio] This is a very good sign dates from the Saite Period. We know from Saqqara that the general Saitic burials occurred immediately Therefore, if we have we could have The first discoveries spur Vassil These mud-brick structures The sarcophagi date from the same epoch, Other graves begin to appear. When one of them is opened, wisps of mold float away Across the dig site, archeologists continue to unearth The wealth of remains confirms the extent A fresh clue emerges shards of pottery. From their shape and composition, Laurent Bavay dates these funerary vessels There is a big problem to resolve. -Why? After several days of work, a rectangular structure 20 by 30 feet It looks like a funerary pit This one from the Late Period one of the Old Kingdom pharaohs. Not far from his pyramid to a staggering depth of nearly 100 feet. This pit leads to the tomb Because sites like this are sacred, dignitaries of the Late Period alongside their ancestors At Tabbet el-Guesh, Vassil now hopes to find tombs [Arabic spoken audio] It's clear that when there is pure sand, A pit cut into the rock There is something here. Vassil holds his breath. His intuition has proved to be correct. He's in the right place. I can read something here. It's written as &quot;the great God.&quot; It's something to do with the great God. He was a privileged person Now we have to go down [Arabic spoken audio] It's really untouched. It looks exactly as it was built. This is his head, Right here. We shouldn't touch the stones too much. Now I can read his name. It's Haunefer. For the moment, I see one of his titles, Semer-Waty, a close friend of the king. Who was Haunefer? He may have served more than one pharaoh. This is what Vassil hopes to find out. Little by little, It's full of hieroglyphs, Merenre Mennefer. This is King Pepi Hem Tjet. Haunefer was clearly a priest in Pepi's mortuary temple. Today, two new figures after more than four millennia, Haunefer and his consort. From now on, At the moment, what we know who was the third king Pepi I is just behind. He served him in the temple there. Additionally, I expect to find out in case he served two or three of them. This will be interesting to find out. Might the Pharaoh Userkare be one of them? Vassil has just discovered a rock tomb from the end of the Old Kingdom. To protect his discoveries Vassil seals the tomb with a metal cover. This, half a mile further south, is all that remains of the pyramid It was his vehicle To live eternally, Even after his death, his subjects brought offerings It was like a factory, constantly generating energy Vassil imagines that Pepi's temple Pepi Mennefer. Pepi is enduring and perfect. This is the name The pyramid and its temple. The place where the priests Offerings from all across Egypt Under the supervision of scribes, everything is accounted for on papyrus Haunefer performs Now he is ready to enter Behind this door is the hall He unveils the central statue of Pepi, In his role as lector priest, Haunefer invokes the names of the pharaoh. &quot;May he live forever and always.&quot; Meanwhile, of the temple hum with activity. It's time to prepare the offerings In yet another sanctuary of the temple, Haunefer's wife Hutiy worships Hathor, Back at Tabbet el-Guesh, The goal is to locate Vassil has noticed from the doorway They appear to have been removed. It's possible that these missing stones of the Pharaoh Userkare. [Arabic spoken audio] Bernard Mathieu, Director of the French comes to record Here is another name. Hutiy is here. He may have had two wives, but it's not written here It's a concubine. Look, someone removed her eyes. By scratching out her eyes, someone has deprived this woman Vassil has found the tomb Now, the second woman. However, this is not In the middle of the limestone facade, a new passageway has just come to light. There is an old brick vault, Intrigued by the tomb's strange layout, Vassil removes sand Little by little, facing Haunefer. It's a boy. [French spoken audio] Between the priest and his wife Hutiy, It's their eldest daughter, the beauty. Strangely, her head has been rubbed out. [French spoken audio] Behind the couple, there's another child. It's a boy. His name is Hau, like his father. Outside the tomb, the dig goes on. Vassil now has proof The archeologists and workers suggesting that more could lie hidden At the time of the Old Kingdom, pyramids like those at Giza priests, scribes, and architects This could be the case at Tabbet el-Guesh. It's possible that a bigger monument and that Userkare chose this site Vassil is perplexed. However, it's still too early for answers. He hopes the priest's tomb It was customary at the time for dignitaries to oversee In so doing, they ensured the quality on sculptures and paintings. Today, Hau checks and those of his consort Here we see For now, this is the official family. This is with his wife Hutiy. The other is unknown. She had another name. She is something else. We don't know. Vassil takes measures A newly constructed wall prevents access which has been sealed with metal covers. [French spoken audio] Vassil and Bernard noticed that the name is identical to the name of the woman She was definitely not a concubine. What really happened here 4,200 years ago? The priestess of Hathor, Hutiy, was probably assisted The wall suggests may have replaced her mother Her father, Hau, In Pepi's temple, and it is he The frescoes have also revealed Why was the daughter's face erased? The culprit With the mother now gone, perhaps his sister had assumed maybe the role of Haunefer's consort, These walls have revealed insight into the family intrigues but not a single trace Inside Haunefer's tomb, the vaulted room [Arabic spoken audio] A funerary pit emerges at its far end. It should lead and perhaps reveal his link It is impressive in size [Arabic spoken audio] However, only three feet down, At the moment, I see nothing. It has plenty of sand. I was thinking It can still go deep, there is a small passage in the west wall. We shall see what it is. I am surprised. If the pit is not very deep, it could be That is also a possibility, I don't know, I'm surprised. Vassil might just have found the entrance However, as night falls, and lock down the tomb until morning. Even in the desert, news travels fast. [Arabic spoken audio] To protect what lies below, Today, the workers arrive This is a day unlike any other. It is the day If all goes well, Vassil is only hours away with Haunefer. He hopes the priest will help him The room they discovered the day before Vassil and Bernard think it was a workroom In only a few hours, The pit descends The pit becomes narrow now, we have something like a passage a maneuvering room or something like that. We won't enter there for the moment, I hope it will be the end soon. What's the advice? I hope we will arrive at the end soon. [Arabic spoken audio] Relying on intuition, Vassil tries to get an idea Like all dignitaries, the priest Haunefer was buried Some were inscribed and revealed their functions In the tomb, a priest prepares statuettes of the dead Haunefer's son checks the offerings to ensure that nothing is amiss Back in the pit, Vassil is now It sounds empty behind. It's strange. This is really strange. Maybe there is a filling here. Maybe this is a filling, He can't possibly be far The funeral procession has just reached Haunefer will at last occupy At the bottom of this pit, Vassil has just reached some 25 feet underground. It's a big room. Oh, we've got bones here. The bones are scattered. The wooden coffin Not a single funerary object remains. It's a terrible disappointment. Maybe this is the mummy Apparently, it was moved, but we shall see if it was moved We still have at least 1.5 meters To get better access to this room, which is approximately it is vaulted. It is cut into the rock It looks like Haunefer's tomb at the end of the Old Kingdom, perhaps for political reasons. He may have been involved in conspiracies that led to the demise Teti, Userkare, and Pepi. The dig must continue. In the tomb, other funerary pits have been cleared, but with the same disappointing results. To pursue his search for the missing king, Vassil opens a neighboring tomb. There are still surprises in store. New discoveries come to light. Several statuettes the owner of the tomb. He is a lector priest and turns out On the back, we have his name, Khnumhotep. A generation before Haunefer. Could Khnumhotep have served Fragments of engravings come from the lintel of the door. These beautiful stones were left here They didn't come to steal the stones, only to remove What is missing here are the door jambs, We have the lintel Apparently, and the lintel fell which we found. Here we have a similar problem, When they constructed this wall, one stone at a time. Then someone came and cut Why? Here we have the beginning &quot;I am.&quot; This is the beginning in which he describes who he was, what he was doing, whom he was serving. Maybe there was a name of a king. Today, Dr. Zahi Hawass, Secretary General comes to see the new finds He too finds it somewhat peculiar It is quite weak, The first part of Dynasty Six and we need more to understand it. We did not find the pyramid complex and we do not know much about the family. Therefore, we depend completely The missing texts to banish Userkare He had succeeded Pharaoh Teti King Teti was killed by his bodyguards, indicating a kind of conspiracy Then came King Userkare, maybe one, two, or three years. During that period, because he was the king. However, when Pepi came to power, maybe everyone Their biographies were also removed because he may have been seen After the death of Userkare, and work on his pyramid began. Haunefer was able to adapt He became the chief Although he had witnessed he was now promoted The missing information that was so important The dig at Tabbet el-Guesh of a lost city of the dead The destruction in the tombs of Haunefer proves that someone intended of the Pharaoh Userkare. Vassil vows to continue his quest to prove His hope is that this new site of tombs of those dignitaries If luck prevails, there will arise, the tomb of the lost pharaoh.