Blake Lively is now being exposed for always With Us Drama, and it's not looking so good.. since the Blake Lively drama started is that something significant. She did it many times about one of her supporter's relationships. Clip. came out of nowhere and could come up as being Blake is disconnected from the people. And even during the premiere of It Ends with Us in London, it doesn't match her dress, even though her who portrays young Lily, Isabela Ferrer, gladly about it. However, that event only got worse more rudeness. Clip. The people were pleased her turn toward them, only to tell them to Blake Lively was a beloved actress, especially are wondering why she's getting so much hate It Ends with Us promotional tour. But the fun as you won't believe what she once called monkeys, and she has always been getting away comedy theme. Looking to the past to how Blake too checked out even to have anything to say pushed him into speaking about it like she was thing happened after Brandon said it was super in love with Blake's character in the movie. seen in footage from 2016, has shown that she's Kjersti, mentioned that she had been too and she decided to post it so people could there was already a controversy about the actress dislikes being congratulated on her bump despite it well the next time it happened again. Clip. Blake still doesn't have the best words for her thing to say to someone suffering from lactose the interviewer revealed she had to ask someone also gave a spin on that. Clip. A joke in such but it shows that some subjects shouldn't be taken In another interview, Blake was mad that Clip. But that quickly took a turn, with the man her cravings since she was pregnant then. And that moment. Clip. However, the actress minimized cravings and special attention in another needs, and hormonal changes when pregnant, and advantage doesn't sound right. As a celebrity statement is risky, and many other women with When the actress isn't forming facts based people to jump on trends. So, whatever Blake she has done it to other people in the past. where people were worried about Kate Middleton, a kids on Mother's Day. However, many image experts Blake also joined in on the drama. The actress her cocktail line, Betty Booze. But when it Blake felt remorseful and apologized. Speaking trouble with people over her alcoholic beverage and even going as far as opening her own company, sells something she doesn't drink. Many people it a cash grab because even in her official still maintained that drinking isn't her thing. a huge gap, which is why the PR for her recent people think Blake doesn't take essential subjects crazy thing is that it is very much accurate. parents paid off the director, among other better is crazy. And being so proud of it shows Blake on people who have been cheated out of great telling on herself, the actress gets triggered by the question is asked. Clip. This interview can sometimes portray a mean girl's energy in you'd have realized Blake speaks outrightly to it might be. And she confirms this as well. her everyday regular conversations, which she it's wild that people interacting with Since Blake has admitted to improvising in her excuse for why she makes inconvenient jokes, it makes some other harsh decisions intentionally. individuals or companies without regard for those very vocal in supporting children's safety from the famous clothing brand after the pictures they in another instance during which heavy allegations amazing what Woody has written for women.&quot; But that she hasn't read about the controversial &quot;It's dangerous to factor in things you don't know And my experience with Woody is he's empowering to his innocence and has never been convicted of than one side of the story before taking a side. with Harvey Weinstein in the past. Before prison for his crimes on a long list of women, Blake still made sure to talk about her &quot;That was never my experience with Harvey in specific -- but it's devastating to hear.&quot; She and trusted when they share stories like this. But stories behind Woody Allen's controversies. people's toes is when she tries to fix people up genuinely cares for others by trying to rearrange some people think it's a front, as it could also are being a mess. She also tried something psychologists have called Blake a crown Clip. Despite Blake's absolute joy in that it and have called her a limelight stealer of Blake being rude, it's unsurprising It Ends with Us controversy has started like in what happened on the set of Gossip Girl. Ben Affleck while shooting The Town. In one which Blake mentioned was very awkward for her to performance, saying she was comfortable and replied that no one ever treated her like a was awkward as it was her first day on that set. itself, as the actress has been reported her feel uncomfortable on set while Blake felt body shamed after Justin asked about he would be lifting her into the air on set. having issues with her costars, it's not when she's talking in interviews. Clip. It's at Blake and ended up laughing out loud in the happen behind the scenes. And her costars, even Brandon couldn't believe his ears when Blake was This particular footage is one of the reasons she should have been talking about significant a body language reader, Blake wasn't attentive to apparent the topic made her uncomfortable, also didn't notice people around her weren't Even if the actress means well, talking too and she spoke about many unnecessary things weird how she started by saying she lost her mom Blake happily discussed what stories ended Clip. Although the actress said the word many the footage being circulated due to her many people. Interestingly, many other annoying and one of the PAs who worked on the project intentionally late to the set for up to 3 to 4 that actors like to do so they wouldn't be the Another crazy drama from Gossip Girl involves which is insane because Armie himself some controversies, too. Clip. It's super Amidst this drama, we saw that Blake wasn't who congratulated her on her little bump. Clip. problems, which Blake wasn't aware of but goes to to people. Interestingly, the interviewer, but this time, with Anna Kendrick but with Blake on the receiving end at this calling Anna out. Clip. Blake's attitude during actress take her media training seriously rather From her wedding ceremony, which happened on a she and her husband later apologized, body experts Judging by how she doesn't engage interviewers her attitude when she stops to admire her that she's not present but wants to