Look, I actually, I... Look, I wanted to beat Ivan's level but there's no way, thre's no way, why do these things only happen to me? Not to mention this scene, which is actually pretty bad Personally its been a long time since I uploaded recent levels and to be honest it will never cease to amaze me And the section has been filled with impossibles so, I have no choice to try now Play everything that goes on my way Impossible I wouldn't have to worry about uncopying Stereo Madness anymore because... I couldn't... ok... ok Because it's from Conical, I use from it, and there's no problem, so Let's going, without any problems, with all the... impossibles It will never surprise me Look, we have a challenge here that seems to be a real challenge so we are going to wait for this to load Thank you And see what's going on around here I would not even know how to do that 3D, to be honest Look, up here, wasn't this crazy's song in instrumental? Or I don't know, I don't remember what it was, but, this... I'm doing it to the rhythm, I mean, otherwise... Okay, no, I'm sorry, there... Look, it wasn't my fault I just wanted to be silly I mean, what I actually wanted to do was something like this There it is, and I almost let... Could I have entered there? No, to be honest no Or maybe yes, I don't know, but, I'll find out if someone finds this level or I don't know, look, I'm not going to play it And then the spam challenges, that was a thing that... Woh *35293 years later* *Another thousand years later* These songs do have to be muted I think he wanted to type ''hacker'' here and the move didn't turn out but let's see what this is because it's an XL What is here? Let's speed it up a bit though, what's this here? There's not even sound, I'm going to play it again I'm out of sound, let's set it on, well, 98.3, wait 99%, what is here? Will there be something? Absolutely nothing, right? There is simply nothing, simply a level that is blank and this man will believe ''no, I... since there is no objects this is impossible'' Wait, wait But what do we have there? There it says 1, how come there were no objects, friend? Surely they are the ones at the end and above, right? It was obvious it was going to be seen, you could have been more original Run friend, run run, what is here? Run Run, why is there...? From above, watch out But wait, okay, how cool, how funny, how funny How's the key thing going? I mean, what do I have to do? If I catch them... Oh okay, it slows down, or so I think... The invincible wall This has an explanation, you know what happened before Hey, let's see... I forgot to remove the speedhack Funny Hitboxes, okay, what is this? Let's see, surprise me, let's give it Look, it's not that he has to fix his game, basically It's a small margin of error, because if the hitbox of those spikes are actually the spike, believe me that nobody is going to be able to play the game Although to tell the truth it's a bit exaggerated, but hey nothing happens, auto, come on okay Okay, I mean, here... It's not like you've been too careful But well, come on, whatever you want, next We've wasted enough time How Good Are You, okay, how good am I, let's see You Ok let's remove the hitbox Ok, so good, very well hidden coins, awesome That transition seemed more difficult to me and what I just did doing that jump, than not the entire level itself Especially because restarting, I think I could perfectly die in that transition if I do it a bit badly, because if we stop this for a moment, like this of course, I perfectly... That's what I meant, that's the hard part, not the rest of the level Well enough, I just wanted to look at that for a moment Ball Challenge Damn! Wait, no, this is the beginning of the video, right? We do a little like this and then this... Ah ok, it can't be seen, how cool Oh my! how Electroman Adventures has changed I don't know if it's better or worse, but to be honest Well... he tried. I say &quot;he tried&quot; Because it didn't work for you ''How is this possible!?'' Waves in Russia, there are things I will never understand Ah ok, because you have to do it like that, it's with 60 hertz, so... Dude, okay, damn, this can be actually cool I swear that waves like this scratch me a lot, but anyway I think this, with a bit of luck... Buah, no, that... Look, ignore this The Hardest, what is the hardest? Friend, tell me, let's see The worst is what you're seeing on the screen, but anyway I don't think I'll ever do something like that again in my life We have these two just alike, like the most difficult spider in the world, but if I had done this already That's it, it's simple, it's simple, that's it, it's not complicated Can we see for a moment how is the hitbox of that? Can we...? There it is, more or less see... There's no way to get that spider embedded in there, but you can see more or less Which is quite considerable, and then there's this impossible Straight Fly or that's what he says.. It wasn't over there It amuses me how, literally, there has been a speed portal there in the middle, that if we do a little like that, you can see that... Of course, it's like you have to catch it from down there There it is, you can't see it, right? Well, look x2626467 Is this a new leaked speed in the game? What is that speed? Watch out! x5, well, the x5, personally, I think it's a bit stunted I find it funny because you can even see how things have come backwards, when you can do it a little better, in fact I think there was a level, I'll show it to you and just in case I'll make a thumbnail of it, because I'm going to place it here In this alternative version they have made of Mountain King it seems that they have set some kind of... of speed, anyway, this is a recent levels video, so I just want to show you that, you see this part here that gives a totally awesome dizziness? Well there it is, this is the thing Let's see if I can stop it a little longer, wait Okay, this would be a decent thumbnail Well, this monstrosity here has this effect, which as you can see when you die... I mean... Look at the gems, how slow they go It's so funny, and buah, actually, even if it doesn't seem like it It's fu**ed up, well, I've come here to play recent levels, but not this But since it's in the video, by setting it as a thumbnail obviously I'm not going to fool anyone *Let's continue* Simple and easy for the whole family, come on, what do you bring to me? What am I supposed to do here? This is the typical spider, okay, very... I just died from a triple jump? What weirder things I'm seeing here, right? At least this is not like a level as can be... Let's see, no, to be honest... Yes, I think... I can do one thing If we go down... It's been a long time since I enjoyed it so much And if I do like this... Well wait, things get complicated, wait I don't think this is going to be just what I just played, right? Because then there, what is the thumbnail is very justified already And on top of that I'm going to save... the work... of making the retouch I'm afraid I've been fooled I have been totally fooled because I thought... What I thought that the title was, I mean this there was the... the speeds it makes sense, right? The hardest jump, of course, surprise me... This really looks like a jump like it's in ruins or something, doesn't it? As if it gets lost? Like that, but this... I want to see how big the hitbox is and why I can't do it at 240 Actually... Well, apart from the fact I just did it The margin of error... There you have a bit, and that's it, right? Okay, that's it The jump over the wall, come on, what's this? *It's possible that YouTube will place an ad here as it's deadly silent* EL PEPE (Again XD) What happened there? I think this is a bit wrong and I know obviously it's not me because as you can see I'm playing at 60, so it's not a hertz problem either Now what? And that's it And... This has a damn copy, but well, it was a bit like that Impossible challenge, incredible and I'm a ufo and this is going to be... Another one of doing like this, right? Of... of doing like that and... It doesn't matter, forget it You Have Been Trolled 2, what's this? *title* That was downloaded very fast Where is the troll here? I think people don't understand the concept of of what this consists of Conjugate the verb well next time, please Watch out, he wants to try it again, this is the same as before Sure, the thing is... He had made it... without your tricks If I upload this as if it were a short, I mean Would it reach 30 million views? Or how does it work? *100% real not fake, check it* Over here I fu**ed your... level I guess that's how it will be This is already boring me, and keep in mind that it's been like two months since I uploaded... Do you know what happens? I always say ''I'm going to upload recent levels'' and in the end it takes me 50 years to do them, and of course my friend there comes a time when I don't even know where I'm going to go, I mean, this actually can't be like that I think if we cheat a bit... I think my hand isn't responding Nado and Solo are the last levels I'm going to play It reminds me of that video I uploaded 50 years ago when the levels responded to each other, Nado at least here seems to be bored and has opted for the basics just fast jumps and simple ones for the whole family *Until next time xd* A floating ball, which is not actually a floating ball but rather a bait I just ate and that is where this part will stay for now And then Solo, uploaded by KFC, I'm getting very hungry now It's simply a staircase Or so it seems Gentlemen, I'm going to ask you for 20.000 likes for this video because I haven't asked for likes in a long time And especially because it's 91, in the last jump I didn't like it at all, so do me a favor I'm going to finish this video as I started it, just playing Thanks for watching :D