Throughout this video we're going to do Kind of like a dissection lab in biology class, of this computer and disassemble every piece and zoom in to give you a nanoscopic view To make this video we disassembled all the we desoldered and removed the components from thousands of pictures. Then using these single component from the computer case down all the hardware that we'll explore throughout scene where someone viciously destroyed a but anyways let's dive right in. Processing Unit or CPU which is the brain called an integrated heat spreader, and inside integrated circuit which is technically called board that distributes the 1200 connection the landing grid array on the motherboard. sections, but perhaps the most recognizable are run. Each core is quite complicated, functional sections. There are dozens of and you can look forward to a series of videos computer architecture and how each of these Let's zoom into a nanoscopic view of the transistors. These transistors are incredibly this die there are approximately 8 to 10 billion. of metal wires with vias rising vertically and wires create a multilayer labyrinth or billions of operations every second. of the CPU. To the side of each core is On the far right is an integrated graphics GPU; in the top left is the memory controller finally on the far left is the system agent the Chipset on the motherboard and manages components in your PC. So, with that in This motherboard is a massive, printed circuit and a variety of microchips, components, soldered to it. Perhaps the single most the bare PCB, is the Chipset, which is this sink down here and is connected directly to a diagram illustrating how the CPU and chipset here, the CPU connects directly to the DRAM, a few SSDs plugged into the M2 slots. The flowing through the ethernet or Wi-Fi, data drives plugged into the SATA ports, some of devices, and the audio sent to the speakers Just a quick note, computer hardware has evolved to evolve, so the details we show should be not as how all computers work. sockets and connectors throughout the motherboard or VRM found near the CPU. These components power supply down to the 1.3 volts used by through these components and their 80 to 90 placed on top. CPU consumes power equivalent to approximately amount of heat which is taken away by the a pump to circulate liquid through these tubes heat to the radiator fins. The fans then cooled liquid returns to the pump via the motor constructed from a PCB, a control chip the middle, and then the permanent magnet no mechanical connection between the rotor the cooling liquid. power throughout the computer. In here, bridges the isolation boundary between the side lower voltages used throughout your computer. output voltage and sends adjustment signals side using opto-isolators. There are dozens voltage and generate various output voltages in your computer. For example, an SSD consumes voltages, whereas your GPU can consume hundreds voltages. that, let's take a step back and consider Alone, each of these components doesn't to form a powerful system. Similarly, this engineering, technology, art and animation emphasize enough how important it is to be you do that, the sponsor of this video is online education platform which teaches a ways. Here are two courses from different unrelated. However, when combined they provide field of science and engineering. This combination with pretty much any two courses that Brilliant Don't worry, you won't be learning from interactive modules to make their lessons your head. some of the lessons for free and, if you like sign up for an annual subscription. We personally on quantum circuits and algorithms for a future Brilliant is offering a free 30-day trial and to the viewers of this channel, Brilliant to the first 200 people who sign up. Just link is in the description below. and move onto the graphics card and GPU which actually this analogy doesn't really work card we see another PCB, with the GPU's all around, and the voltage regulator module with a fan to dissipate heat, and on the side Ports, a PCIe Interface and then on the other Let's focus on the GPU integrated circuit thousand solder pads that connect it to the die which is noticeably different from the transistors organized into 6 graphics processing Each streaming multiprocessor is composed cores. Each core has sections for integer for queueing in the operands and collecting core. Additionally, on the die is an L2 processing clusters, a set of memory controllers processor, and a PCIe interface for connecting When we zoom in to see a nanoscopic view of similar to what we saw in the CPU, with the of multiple layers of metal wires above. dollar semiconductor fabrication plants or video, so let's move on. GPUs and CPUs thousands of cores that are limited to basic of cores that perform far more complicated prediction and deep pipelines that optimize example of what GPUs can do. Take this image values for each pixel. A simple way to brighten A CPU has 10 cores and thus performs arithmetic the data to thousands of cores thus performing Let's close this graphics card and talk is a slightly older model graphics card because parts from eBay, and then, as shown earlier, order to accurately model everything. Additionally, such as this motherboard that says DDR4, while That said, modeling and animating everything a computer took us around 500 hours and we a few seconds to hit that like button, subscribe comment below, and share this video with someone and would appreciate any support. We're and other related topics and can't do it these 4 quick things. It helps a ton. State Drives, and Hard Drives. We're not entire series of videos on solid state drives, Hard Drives. But quickly, the CPU communicates running inside the motherboard. Inside each composed of 32 memory banks each 8192 columns stores data using capacitors and transistors look like this. Data can be accessed within only 16 Gigabytes of data can be temporarily video on DRAM, but for now let's move on arrays called 3D NAND. This array is 100 wide and 32 to 64 thousand rows deep. Additionally, are multiple 3D NAND arrays stacked one on microchip can store terabytes of data, however which is 3000 times slower than DRAM. Zooming trap which stores different levels of charge saved. Looking at the NVMe and SATA SSD, a DRAM chip for buffering and holding the Let's move on and dissect the hard disk spindle with a motor that rotates the disk across the disk in order to access a single Let's zoom in on the read write head. magnetic domains in a small layer on the disk in magnetic domains. This disk drive is to access, thus resulting in slower read and of storage. inside your computer. So, thanks for watching looks like inside a computer mouse, with the sensor, and multiple lenses down here and For computer mice we have separate dedicated wheel with incredible details. inside a basic keyboard, with plastic traces pressed, that key completes a circuit which That's pretty much it for what it looks future will require a strong emphasis on engineering Patreon and YouTube Membership Sponsors for us on YouTube Memberships, or Patreon, you thank you again to Brilliant for sponsoring This is Branch Education, and we create 3D that drives our modern world. Watch another or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching