[SOOTHING MUSIC] OPRAH WINFREY: Today for over 35 years, around the world on love, kindness, prolific author, Buddhist of the mindfulness We're interconnected because what we're saying, the ripples go out. Welcome, welcome, welcome. OPRAH WINFREY (VOICEOVER): when we discussed her &quot;When Things Fall Apart-- Heart Advice for If you don't know then you can never be fearless. OPRAH WINFREY (VOICEOVER): Now called &quot;Welcoming Wholehearted Living in invites readers to to strengthen resilience. But you can't know also know how to hurt. That's right. OPRAH WINFREY that beneath anger, is a basic goodness Just like me, that person That person doesn't That person doesn't want Right. OPRAH WINFREY addresses the allegations lodged against And when that I felt angry with him. I felt deeply saddened for OPRAH WINFREY: So I'm happy to &quot;Super Soul Sunday&quot; in my Yeah, it's so beautiful. And it's wonderful spoke about your book-- I think it was like five years Yeah. OPRAH WINFREY: And I had dinner with you last night. And you were sharing how that, all over the from people who have and how it has moved them. How does that make you feel here on Earth? Well, it makes me feel good. I guess that's Yeah. PEMA CHODRON: You know? Because, honestly, talk to me about their legacy, to be, and things like that. Mhm. I realize I don't What I care is about might impact their lives particularly because And if it actually has to a certain degree, me really deep satisfaction. But you know what One of my most powerful Right, I know. OPRAH WINFREY: And one of the I'd come back from opening Maya, my school is going and she said, you have no That's right. Because legacy is It's not about institutions, it's every life you touch. Well, that's right. So the same is true read &quot;When Things Fall Apart.&quot; Every person who's been had to offer, that will be-- this is your legacy. That's right. So now you've written-- when I first saw the title, I went, whoa. What you said last want to welcome the unwelcome. I don't want to wel-- that's exactly what Oh, gosh, I don't know if Because I don't want to welcome. So you begin chapter &quot;Begin With a Broken Heart.&quot; Now, I have to tell you are trying to avoid Why do you say, start Well, it has to do of the human life where-- and that's shared like empathetic sense of and tenderness. And somehow, if you get in touch there is in the I kind of mean by a broken Mhm. PEMA CHODRON: --a genuine heart. If you get in touch with that, And that's the healing with other people based on or they stood in your shoes, or OPRAH WINFREY: Right. So the book talks about how we and stay connected when we really want to withdraw. And I know there you had some of your happens when they are any form of suffering. And what did you Mainly, the attitude is this the vulnerable part, the tender And it's very linked with to love and feel compassion. They're all kind of mixed in. Does that make sense? It makes all the sense-- --that you can't you also know how to hurt. PEMA CHODRON: That's right. So when things show up for that cause us to suffer-- and by &quot;suffer&quot; weren't in this predicament-- Right, exactly. OPRAH WINFREY: --yeah, or cause a sense of hopelessness, what's the first Acknowledge what Acknowledge what you're feeling. And that is what you being Yeah. Well, first is And &quot;welcoming&quot; might Yes. Because maybe acknowledging is is that everything in and that your mind is racing it's their fault. or I'm a horrible person, And so the first thing is to acceptance. Yeah, to recognize, if you were doing it in steps. Although it kind Recognize and then You're turning in You know? Yes. I think the next thing is could do at that point. For instance, go to locate it in your body. And I talk a lot and then learning how to Because if you're of those uncomfortable feelings, you feel it as tightness. You know? Mhm. It's just that's how it feels. So I guess it's like making or being kind to that tightness. You actually talk it in and then exhaling out. Tell me what that is. Yes. Traditional Buddhist is that when someone you're willing to take don't have to have it. That's kind of at most advanced. But I've taken that and worked that when the pain is And then the way that or something is to breathe So-- It feels like of what you wanted to do. Habitually, you Yeah, what you want to PEMA CHODRON: Absolutely. --that's causing So that's why, instead, in there that says, I could do something different. Maybe I could move towards it. So &quot;Welcoming the Unwelcome,&quot; principle of basic goodness-- Yeah. --the idea that human and loving, and we naturally On page 8, you write, the basic goodness as at the root of It lies beneath everything we do How so? When you read that-- OPRAH WINFREY: Yes? --what do you hear? What I hear is that no like on the exterior-- and we are fed a daily because that's what the news is. That's right. And you are that tell you all the time PEMA CHODRON: Right. And what it says to me is is just a facade. That's just a cover-- That's right. --for what's really inside. That's right. Yes, yeah. So that is really And you asked me a question if you're trying to communicate, to try to communicate? PEMA CHODRON: Thinking about absolutely the most basic feel so bad about themselves. And if there's any way that they can take it in and complete just as they are, wrong with them, and or temporary things in the They pass. And the fundamental state and unbiased. And it's always there. But so, in other we call our faults, or are temporary and removable. And even those, how do Not by getting rid to know them really well. OPRAH WINFREY: Coming up. [CALM MUSIC] There's this when you look at other people. And you say, I Just like me. Just like me. I've taken it to You know, we've all but for the grace of God.&quot; It's another [INAUDIBLE] But I love this idea of when with another person, and even and you're getting upset with exercise. Can you share that? I like that. Well, it is really helpful. You can do it anytime, and waiting for anything. You can just look And whether they seem stressed, you can say, just like me. We are alike. Just like me, that person That person doesn't That person doesn't That person doesn't want Right. That person, just like me. Just like me. And so it's very, very useful situations like a traffic jam. It's so-- Or at the so frustrated at the airport. Oh, I know. So you sit there. And you-- if you just start, you nowhere except, you know-- More fuming. --only get more fuming. You start looking at the or other people sitting and just like me, these and they're being delayed. And just like me, they're And just like me, they're Want to be where they And just like be helpful if there they could deal with it. Yeah. So here's some advice. The advice would be the humanity of all the I would have to say the great lessons show every day for 25 years and one on one, I got that I understood-- --that this human-- that there's this human common Oh, absolutely. OPRAH WINFREY: And just like And just like me, everybody PEMA CHODRON: That's right. You know, I often say trouble with their parents-- and often their parents Right? PEMA CHODRON: And but and they're dreading it. And then I always said, Enter into their lives against and being not interested in your life. Just for that-- keep And for a couple sit and enter into their life. Do whatever they're doing, like long when you'd rather be out And the other thing is, ask OPRAH WINFREY: Yes. Ask them about their life. And I said, really, it's because for you to start or father's childhood Yeah, I did that with I actually, when my mother-- we and wouldn't be on and was making her transition, And I sat in the room. She was in this she watches television was like 87 degrees. And she's watching &quot;The and &quot;The Young and long, and watching And I just sat in the room-- Yeah, that's right. OPRAH WINFREY: --just That's right. And sometimes it's - That's right. And I had an interesting Because she retired-- she and But then he died, oh, maybe six And so I would go down there. I'd be just dying in the markets and everything. She would stay in her and again just watching wasn't in Mexico. You know? Could have been anywhere. And so my feeling was-- Just enter her world. So I went. And as you say, it was so hot So I'm sitting there. And basically, I and just almost down to just kind of be present And after awhile, I And after a while, it got Every once in a while, and someone would come in. And it'd be like a Someone would interact her something, or something. And I'd see her reaction Then they'd leave. And we'd be back to this sort But after a while, in a theater show or something. You know? OPRAH WINFREY: Mhm. Being on stage and almost I don't know what to say except dreadful and something I I actually got into with her. That's right. You became present - Transcend my mind-- --with my resistance. So a Buddhist principle we And I think that enlightenment-- I remember when I was That was a part of that we were doing a show as well as entertain. And a lot of people get &quot;enlighten.&quot; It's very Yes, because it sounds like-- It sounds like unattainable. - Unattainable. Do you think you Enlightenment? Enlightenment. No, I would not say I have. You would not say you have? I would not. You're helping us You're helping us get through I would say that I've away from being and polarizing, and feeling that But I don't-- maybe If you were to say, have are you able to be more present and with other people, I'd say absolutely. I'd say absolutely. But I feel I've just And-- Yeah, I do. A little old but just but I've felt this way for-- OPRAH WINFREY: But that the ultimate of the things, I remember when I recognized, first what I had referred to as up in the sky, taking names, and making a list and Right. I remember that sense of being that god was in all, that the you call it, is in all, and That's right. And that felt kind Well, yeah, there's moments. Of awareness There's moments I think I mentioned it But Buddhism being full like that-- Yes. --they say when you have experience it's called-- it has this Buddhist OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah So then that's OPRAH WINFREY: Right. There are-- Levels, and levels, PEMA CHODRON: Levels, And actually, people ask me, You know? Mhm. And I say, well, have chosen it as a life thing. PEMA CHODRON: Being of real negative associations. But I saw it as devoting deeper, deeper, deeper. OPRAH WINFREY: Coming up. [GENTLE MUSIC] What has been your would you say? Well, I've had any number stood still where I just of timeless. And I now use the word fully present is not just-- it's not just the colors of the although that's part of it. It's more-- it's also, a feeling of this moment Yeah. It's infinite. So that's an experience, an The other ongoing experience I never know how to express neutral in a way, like all and everything are that some-- one person hears Yes. And this other person hears it's good. It's sort of like-- It has its influence depending is, where you come from-- And it's not-- - That's right. That's right. So that was initially a because that-- That allows you to hear It makes it painfully-- you And the other thing is that-- OPRAH WINFREY: Well, you've got When I fir-- I'm here to prove your PEMA CHODRON: I see. All right. But when I first I just broke down and And the reason was everyone is causing so much suffering just because They just don't understand that. So racism, sexism, and that cause so much all comes from thinking that is bad, or threatening, So we were talking about or life lessons. Did you learn about karma? Or did you already I love what you You say, &quot;Every word we speak affects our future.&quot; I'm going to say that &quot;Every word we speak and affects our future. But where do words They all start from our mind. And when we indulge in or self-righteous several problems for ourselves. First, we suffered of those thoughts and emotions. Then we often act out ourselves and others harm. Finally, we reinforce would be better off without.&quot; It's pretty good. OPRAH WINFREY: That's Such awakening, wise, I think maybe I'm better [LAUGHS] Pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. Well, do you I defi-- I know it's true. They-- It's actually the third law It's for every action, there's I mean, it is like Every year, I take usually about 100 I go into solitary retreat And-- How long are you along-- how long? PEMA CHODRON: About 100 days. 100 days. So, well, that's three and a half months. I'm not-- it's not like But I pretty much am It's my favorite thing to do. I love people. Yeah. But basically, I love it. Wow. So I had this insight. I was sitting there, and or I was worried about or something, and started And one of the things aware of what my mind that's going on. OPRAH WINFREY: Mhm. So I was aware and that it was impacting me. I was kind of And I thought, even what you're doing is Now, I don't know if you But it struck me that the The ripples go out. You know, we know so much about at such a vast level because and stuff, the ripples go out. So I realized, even with another person, I still-- The ripples are going out. Yeah, so it matters. It really matters how how we're kind to ourselves, how we really causing ourselves suffering by And though we can't predict or or how we will feel something about how we react. We can work on how we That's exactly right. We can relate to And that's where in because you aware of what you're thinking. You become so much more It's like some kind of Mostly what happens, for myself and working is what you become aware of You become aware that or that you're working talking about your sister-in-law Seeing that you're that you're doing that. And then turn towards Forget about the sister-in-law Just turn towards yourself, Now, people do ask me, well, and this would be like the boys You know? Where the situations does this apply to And I'm thinking, it become so much more able to be Because you're not yourself with your you're really understanding. And you're fully it is you're feeling but with some kind of just a human being. But on the other continuing with the or in your mind. And so somehow in are more just open and available And you don't see or enemies, even the people to people. You wish you could find a way to Yes. PEMA CHODRON: And the the more you can communicate OPRAH WINFREY: Coming up. [SOOTHING MUSIC] This is the great And it comes in welcoming You share this, that the you the greatest humiliation-- - --the greatest pain-- --the greatest suffering is PEMA CHODRON: That's right. And we should be That's right. Well, someone was asking I really don't buy that. But so we had a great-- we But they-- You don't have If you can see it though, You know? And traditionally like &quot;troublemakers as gurus.&quot; OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah. Yeah, they're your teachers. Yeah, I share this story that I was going through and found all these written to someone in my 20s. And I sat in the closet Yeah, I know. --grateful that whatever my delusions were-- Yeah. --and also said a Yeah, that's it exactly. Yeah, yeah. Because I thought, well, one of my greatest teachers-- --the person that I thought That's right. - Yeah. But it takes It takes ti-- it's hard to No, when you're in it. But I think people do And if they read a or &quot;When Things Fall and that message kind this is interesting to me, they say stumble on the It's in there. They already know it somehow. Yeah, do we just reinforce what we already know? Is that what's going on? Yeah, unless-- until OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah. But I would say, if you on all the continents that mostly that's You just keep reinforcing the And as you get older, is your world just gets You're more and more I wanted to ask you about reinforced and karma the allegations of that were made about a year ago. There was a &quot;New that read, &quot;The 'King' is Undone by Abuse Report.&quot; Now, we've seen this in Boy Scout leaders, And now, I think people There is no place That's right. And now the Buddhist by allegations of sexual abuse. That's right. And when that I felt-- oh, man, you feel I felt angry with him. I felt deeply saddened for Those were the main feelings, When that happens and it comes - Yes. Yeah. Well, that's like a Right? Now-- And in that case, I came out of sexual misconduct Yeah. Yeah. The situation is horrendous. And my future is just I mean, I'm too old about it too much because-- You're still a senior Right? I am officially still Yeah. But I also have another since '99. And I also-- more outside of So in a way-- and as I say, things are my most favorite thing. But for many people, they And I have always known him And we've always had a But on the other hand, for me as for these another teacher or anything. And for them, their life is And they can't imagine they're going to go forward OPRAH WINFREY: So as you know, there was an unnamed woman her reports of sexual abuse happened over 15 years ago. And she claims that she and you responded by And if it's true, I suspect And then in September 2018, you issued this &quot;I was able to tell her that I believe what she told me. And going forward, I hope and not again say such to those who come What did you learn about Because you all had Yeah, we had a long, [SIGHS] Well-- What did this teach you? PEMA CHODRON: Yeah, yeah. I-- well, it tuned important it is to allow people But in this whole very important the Me Too movement, I'm glad it's happening. But I think that what-- where it gets problematic allow for someone to change. They just fix them in their completely bad, And they don't that someone might learn So for me, that whole thing are not fixed. People are fluid, and and you have to help people. So when you had the had accused you of not what did you say to her? She agreed, first So she knew why I was calling. And I said, I'm calling But first of all, something you need to say-- you want to say to me. And then she talked telling me the whole and what had happened to her, and what she had felt Did you hear it PEMA CHODRON: Oh, yeah, completely differently. And the thing is, ago that I don't remember However, she And that, to me, was is that she felt heard, and and that I was very grateful And did you regret you had handled it before? Oh, for sure. Yeah, I mean, I-- so it was a wake-up call. I thought, oh, my goodness. I had kind of a rosy countless interviews them being the better for it. And then I thought, the only woman that heard in one way or another. You know? OPRAH WINFREY: Mhm. And that it isn't but my intention That's always my intention So of course I felt that I had left her feeling You know? Mhm. By the time you got off the We had communicated And we both felt that we around the relationship. And we both agreed to keep And I said to her, if if things are painful for you I think you can trust And she said, well, thank and so like that. So you think she felt heard She definitely-- that she felt heard. OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah, yeah. Coming up. [CHEERFUL MUSIC] What do you think about We were talking about women who have experienced, sexual assault, feeling feel like being able to speak that they could not have I think it's great. And the other thing is there who didn't think at the time. It was so culturally accepted in the office, or what or whatever, our husband-- Yeah. --and our mutual friends and then you think, oh, my Oh, my gosh. Yes. Our generation, our I mean, I think of the things to me, and the things and what I put up with you know, that I feel that who are from South tolerate it one moment. PEMA CHODRON: No, I know. My grandchildren, Wouldn't take it one second. - Not a second. - Not a second, that's right. - That's right. PEMA CHODRON: That's right. And I think that's a gotten to this point. PEMA CHODRON: That's That's really a good thing. But just to say again, the only to address is when it gets-- your mind gets frozen. And someone becomes like a no room to say, or maybe they'll But if there has - Yeah. Acts have consequences. There has been a criminal act. Oh, yeah, that's right. But that doesn't mean that that has to be like that forever. I mean, that's the problem system is that they for what their crime was. And there is no-- very little, very few prisons to help people move along. OPRAH WINFREY: I think I've spoken to women and have just now gained actually for themselves And I've asked this is there room for forgiveness? And several of them we're not ready to We're just getting our - And that's true. That's true. So just as everything - That's right. That's right. Life moves in stages. PEMA CHODRON: And that's right. The stage now, I think, Can you hear me? And does what I say matter? And that's right. Yeah. You know, I was So we're not PEMA CHODRON: I hear you. I hear you that This moment. And to-- you have - The declaration. - Mhm. And I also, I-- it's been to realize why, for allow it to happen again-- Yeah. --or why a woman would or all these things which [PEACEFUL MUSIC] So you say, &quot;The wonderful irony is that we find it only leads that the exalted is nothing more than and our world just as we are. In other words, the ultimate is simply to be fully human. And the ultimate benefit is to welcome them, also just as they are.&quot; Yeah, see, that came about what I'm saying, Yeah. --that you accept today just as you are, like Yeah. Or it's by learning then you see their transparency, already-- always been there. PEMA CHODRON: Do you Yeah. Oh, I definitely know Because you know why? One of my favorite moments is to be on the ground, and you're at the airport. And you get on the plane, and Oh, yeah. And that moment where above the clouds, and it's all That's right. And you see the sun, That's right. That's exactly on the cover, where and then you shoot This is exactly the That's right. I never even saw That's exactly what-- oh, I love that I never saw it that way before. That's exactly the It's great. Now, that's a famous that the sun is always there the sun's not shining today. Because we're Yes, yes. PEMA CHODRON: --as if But if you begin to adopt a is always shining, and you can rid of the clouds exactly-- Right. --but by seeing how But anyway, getting to know is magical. And that is what &quot;Welcoming That's right. Full circle-- Thank you so much. Thank you so much. [BELL DINGING]