What is it about Shostakovich, this famously twitchy, nearsighted almost the entire Soviet era through deep into the Cold War His music is multifaceted and reflects that had rapidly mechanized in a relatively short period of time. Perhaps these are some of the reasons and has such a magnetic appeal. There aren't many 20th century composers as Shostakovich's, is that one of the reasons with WHEN people So whether you're already a fellow the maestro of mood swings and the musical Stick around! This hot My name is David turned happy amateur For those of you asking Shosta-Who-da-Vich Well, I'll tell you. Dmitri Shostakovich was born He was a textbook child prodigy Conservatory in 1919 Six years later, in 1926, The First Symphony, was premiered bringing him instant notoriety and thrusting him into the spotlight for the rest of his life. Shostakovich sound and style were shaped popular silent movie houses. That first symphony that made him which, once you hear it, you'll His compositions bristle with encrypted and cynicism, reflecting authorities, particularly Stalin. His career could be accurately described For nearly 40 years, he pulled off an repeatedly teetering between condemnation and accolades when he delivered the goods In the West, US conductors like Leopold Stokowski especially adored. I would like most humbly and respectfully Shostakovich himself, and in the name of my country, he has given us. Western audiences were spellbound by his ability human emotions through music Shostakovich wrote 15 symphonies for piano, violin and cello, works He's also considered but was also a lifelong student of Bach, Preludes and Fugues the 200th He was the 20th century master of the passacaglia, usually serious, furrowed-brow ostinato in the bass. Truly, some of the most astonishingly beautiful cries Though in very poor health for his last ... he was a lifelong heavy smoker Shostakovich continued to compose His final work, a sonata for viola for copying on July 5th, 1975, shortly he was hospitalized and passed away So you'd think that being obsessed with this 20th century Russian composer Think again. I had only to lightly scrape performances on YouTube to discover Here's how it went down for me. There were really just a handful of us and we all discovered Shostakovich So I'm a Texas boy. And in 1988, the Texas All State Music with none other than Shostakovich's Only high school juniors so as a sophomore, I wasn't eligible, nerd friends were. Everyone's initial reaction was Shosta WHO? anything from Shostakovich. And according to my brother, out, the prevailing sentiment Their parts sounded weird. And then the grumbling started... like, Of course, the recording was nowhere until someone finally tracked down a cassette tape, and passed around. We wanted to hate it. We really did. And then everyone gradually started And next thing you knew, In that little circle of competitive all of us were somehow listening 50-minute symphony written by a composer about last week, on repeat! And then the practicing... So my brother and a few of my friends and performed at the all state convention in Austin, for them. But it was easily as transformative If you've ever felt like certain music at just the right time... well, So I did a little bit of digging of the Texas Music And do you know what I found? Since 1951, the only composer more frequently than Shostakovich is. Tchaikovsky. Tchaikovsky was programed 39 times, Beethoven is a distant third Of the other great symphonists, Stravinsky at eight, Prokofiev at seven, When these are the programing choices What does that tell you? First of all, it tells you the TMEA know that making students would bring about quite possibly the end I know I'm going to get it from the Bruckner people, More pertinently, it shows you that they also know and Shostakovich seems to captivate That's been my lived experience, but I am curious Back in the day, I would love to hear or rather: Deliberate. But so then the question is why? Why are music nerds, so susceptible to Shostakovich? I think it's a combination There's a stark contrast with the music that most young music students Like if you're a pianist or a string in this age group, and of course, Specifically, you have Clementi and Beethoven's but not necessarily enough to keep And the music being studied has to evolve That's where Shostakovich comes in. He offers the breadth of emotional range that matches the rollercoaster Beethoven also works. I'll never forget how obsessed But where I think Shostakovich edges out, has to do with RECENCY. Being closer To Shostakovich had more tools to innovate from Russian trailblazers And more reasons to write music that is often raw With so many of my non-classical nerd in the late 80s and early Nirvana, Depeche Mode, Smashing Pumpkins, I was never a fan because even then but what Smells Like Teen Shostakovich's Eighth Quartet was to me. This is classical headbanger music, and we couldn't get enough of it. Adding to Shostakovich's cool factor is the fact that he is one who managed to create, The other was Bach obviously. Shostakovich used the letters DSCH, the initial of his first name, as written in German German note names are needed for these to work. H represents B natural, and S or E flat I think it's no coincidence that the works signature is central that are most popular I mean, once you discover you're naturally driven where it's the central And then Symphony number ten, where it repeatedly smacks with all the subtlety of an iron skillet. If you're a Shosta-Kid, or a Shost-Adult How he came into your life, and even--or especially--the pieces One of my favorite things about this channel is dialog with you, See you next time! Ciao.