Translator: Leonardo Silva I'd like you all to take a second, and I'd like you to imagine Be as specific about them as you can. How old are they? What do they look like? What's their gender? How do they stand and walk and behave? Are they happy? Now, when I ask you to imagine you probably didn't imagine There are more than 700,000 people in the UK alone. That means that, statistically, 25 of you here today You're the lucky ones. You haven't slipped through the cracks. It's March 2018 in my home city of Melbourne, Australia. I'm 21 years old. I'm an actor, nearly graduated from university, my professional stage debut and a bright future ahead of me, and I've just been diagnosed part of the autism spectrum. After multiple appointments lots of boxes to tick and tests which I thought I aced - and failed miserably - I hold in my hands a stack of paper confirming my shyly new diagnosis and my clinically defective brain. So much of my life makes sense to me now: my strange intensity in social situations, my weird obsessions that never go away, my failed attempts at friendships, my tendency to cry and stay non-functional All these things for which they were just traits of autism that had gone unacknowledged The autism spectrum seems so vast and so scary and so very lonely, and in my work as an actor, everyone that surrounds me and clever and correct, all these things I take the shameful papers and I place them in the back of a drawer, and I promise myself that I will never, ever, talk about my autism to anyone. It's an easy choice to make. There are so many pervasive and harmful that many people who don't fit those never getting the support that they need and deserve. We aren't Rain Man. We aren't Sheldon Cooper. We aren't doomed to a life in care, And when we aren't these stereotypes, nobody sees us. Nobody saw me for 21 years. Everyone on the autism spectrum You might say I have mild autism, but that's only because I don't experience my autism mildly. Most people think of the autism with 'not very autistic' down one end and 'overwhelmingly but that couldn't be more wrong. In reality, the autism spectrum Each colour represents that is related to autism. Red could be social communication. Blue could be emotional awareness. Pink could be auditory processing. Every autistic person, has their own unique plot We might share similar traits but we're not the same, and I am so tired of people thinking The more that autistic people are pushed the more we will struggle. You see, most autistic people We suffer from the way To the world, my brain is broken, and when the world treats someone that person will slowly come Over half of the autism spectrum will experience self-injury People with intellectual disabilities, including autism, are seven times more likely than those without disabilities. Young autistic people are 28 times more likely And these numbers, they also apply Because I've been autistic my entire life, not just since my diagnosis. I've been different and everyone around me could see even if none of us had a word for it. People don't really like difference. It's so hard to be different. Now, when you think of autism, I don't want you to instantly think of all the negative stereotypes Yes, autism does come but it also comes with so many My autism, it makes me insanely passionate and my autism makes me We need to make a future are treated with the respect Our diversity, that's our strength, and with a world full of different kinds we can achieve goals, as a race, and we can make a future I don't want you to see me I'm not broken. I am just autistic. I'm just me. It's a few weeks and I'm sitting in the waiting room ready to talk about how to move forward. I don't want to move forward. I want to be normal. There is a little girl sorting the blocks on the floor I recognize something inside of her I am suddenly overwhelmed this tiny child that I don't even know having to go out and face a world for her beautiful brain. The girl looks up at me, and she gives me awkward and shy and cheeky all at once, and she sees me, and I see her. What is she going to do if nobody stands up for her? I didn't choose this, but it is my responsibility The roads will be bumpy at first, but when she's older, until one day, there will be children born who will never know that the road Her name is called, and the girl is gone, and in that moment, I am taking the papers and I'm folding them and I'm carrying them with me because they're a part of me. And I can't separate and I don't think I want to. Not anymore. And I'm standing here today, and I'm paving the road, and my arms are open Thank you. (Applause)