Look, this is most likely debris from a rocket. An army vest completely burned, completely image ok, this is what it looked like and [Music] The city destroyed by war Today we are in Mosul the most war-torn city in Iraq. For approximately four years, from the end of 2013 until 2017 this whole area was taken over by the armed forces of ISIS. Many battles happened here. Inhumane rules were implemented and thousands, well, tens of thousands of lives were lost. Let's give a little bit of context about what ISIS. It comes from the acronym Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. Basically a terrorist group dedicated to cause violence and they caused lots of war, lots of violence, a lot of disgrace in this and other territories. Today this city is not a war zone anymore. In fact it could be said that it is one of the &quot;safest&quot; areas of Iraq. Because to get here you really have to go through a lot of military checkpoints. I'm talking about more than 20 checkpoints that you find on the road. There are armed forces all over the place supervising. And roaming heartbreaking. You can see fallen buildings, bombed everywhere, bullet marks on all the walls in doors. And in case you are wondering, this city is inhabited today. More than a million and a half people, according to the last census, live here. It used to be and many say is still the second most populated city in the territory of Iraq. This is a good place to start the video because we can see in a way the division that of Mosul. Here on my left we have the old area, the most central area of the city and on my right side the newest zone, the modern zone if we could call it that. We can see that the bridge has been destroyed, and nowadays the vehicles have to be transported over a temporary bridge which really causes a lot of traffic. Why is that? why is the bridge broken? You'll see, when they were finally able to start cleaning up this whole area from the armed forces of ISIS, they were gradually cornering them towards the center of the area. They used to be in the whole area but the armed forces realized that in order to be able to combat them, the bridge had to be broken or they could continue to receive weaponry, help from other soldiers and the battle was always being lost. So in this way they broke off communication and they were able to cornered them here until they were finally disappeared. Today we're going to go around the city of Mosul, we're going to analyze its current appearance. We're going to maybe talk to some of the locals and listen to some of the stories that are told. I do It's a hard thing, really hard to be [Music] The US government performed more than 8000 attacks between Syria and Iraq to combat ISIS. &quot;We are going after the leadership and infrastructure of ISIS&quot; Wow this structure is completely destroyed, extremely shocking. Something very interesting that we found in several constructions and They have a text with a little check above. What the text says is &quot;amin&quot; that means safe and that check is to let them know it's already been checked. This to let people know that this place has already been inspected, they've already looked for mines here and they've already determined that it's safe, there are no more mines here, now you can walk without the risk, without the fear of maybe stepping on something and cause an explosion. And we can also see the text over there, over there I see another one, in there there was another one, you see it that look obviously destroyed. We're now going into the areas where the last battles were. In these streets were the last battles, until they finally managed to liberate this town from the armed forces of ISIS. Today we can see that life continues, we can see that children play soccer, people have businesses, they hang out outside. Some houses are even starting to be renovated, see how well painted this one is in comparison to this one which looks still bombed out. And from what I'm told everyone in these houses has at least one relative who passed away during that very sad time. Here this very brave young man, his name is Yusff and he tells a story that he crossed the river swimming with his little brother. You remember that I told you at the beginning that the bridge was destroyed then people had to swim to escape. Well he swam with his little brother, his little brother at some point couldn't keep swimming so he got back for him, he managed to save him. A story of bravery from this young man, from Yusuf. See here the mosque was clearly used as a kind of a war fort and we can see all the walls with bullet marks ,all the windows obviously broken by bullets. And that's very interesting, we can see lots of texts that have been crossed out, this is because many sites were marked by ISIS with spray paint as ISIS territory. Do not approached, we conquered it. So today as it no longer represents the reality of this country, as this people have already freed themselves from that sad reality, the locals cross them out in order to little by little disappear those sad traces of their history. [Music] We got into a house that evidently at some point was part of a battle and wow, what you find here is pretty devastating, it's hard. Look, this is possibly the remains of a rocket. In this room we can also find what it appears to be a rocket, it even has a code, a number. This definitely is also a rocket, look at that. And the door has lots and lots of bullet marks, look one mark here, and here, and here, some others there. The infrastructure of the house in general feels very damaged. This certainly makes us wonder why is that some houses are so badly affected, they were used in the battle, and others not so much. You'll see, during these sad years, it happened that families were in their home sheltered and the soldiers of ISIS or whatever you want to call them, they would knock and it was like: open quickly we need to use your roof to be able to shoot planes that are going to come, helicopters that are looking for us. Then they would come in, from the roof boom, boom, they were shooting and in this way they already had this house identified as an ISIS site. So they would mark it and order to come here and boom, boom, they bombed. That's why a house like this looks so burned, so badly affected and others just look neglected. Really look at this house wow it's on the verge of falling down. Let's go up, we can see a boot there, all of this is super, super affected. Ok, of course rooftop of this house was of great use to them look, this is huge, here you can install all kinds of weaponry to shoot upwards. Here there is a gun holster, there is no mystery, it is a gun holster. The interior of the mosque four years later, more than four years actually. And we can still find some war equipment, this is some kind of a several years have passed and you can't really say that you see a rebuilding. A lot of organizations have donated to make this happen but it's just too much to fix, it would be very expensive and it also takes an awful lot of time. And it's very disturbing, really very disturbing to think that to this date there may be bodies buried under all of this because they have not been able to remove it. There have not been the resources to remove it. Locals say that all of a sudden smells emanate from here. Possibly because of bodies that are And there are people that to this day It's still a sacred place in spite of all the sadness and all the horrible things that happened. Walking a through the rubble we can find shoes, this appears to be a dog's skull, possibly a dog. Which in deed gives us indications that underneath the debris there must be bodies of cats dogs, humans. Here a belt, probably from a soldier. And this palm tree here has great meaning, given by the locals. They say that the palm tree is just as Mosul, as the city, that it doesn't matter how much damage is done to it, it continues to stand, it continues to resist strongly. Watch this, this is strong, it has a lot of meaning. This letter that we see here is an n in Arabic, and here it says Islamic State, what the soldiers of ISIS did is that they marked the houses with letters. For example the letter n meant that they were houses of Christians, n is for the word &quot;Nasrani&quot;, which means Christians and in this way it meant that they were sort of traitors to the ideology that they were following the wrong ideology, therefore they marked their houses and the other soldiers knew. Then of course that it was very hard to be a Christian person in a community like this. But it was not only for Christians, it was for everybody. Even for other Muslims, they could mark them with a letter m which means &quot;murtad&quot;, someone who doesn't follow the ideology correctly. And a lot of times there wasn't even a reason, they just didn't like a certain people who were deserters, who had already broken the rules several times. Those were very hard, very strict times without reason, only for spreading terror, terrorist acts. All the city is a mountain of rubble. Everywhere you see there is more and more rubble, destroyed buildings. Here, there, these houses have already been painted. I imagine they weren't destroyed so they've been fixed up again. Our guide tells us that right here, in this area of the construction, when people broke free from ISIS, he went inside and percieved a smelled a putrid odor. It turns out that underneath the debris they found about 100 dead people. Let's see, the smell that I'm smelling right now may be because of many things, there may be many reasons but I would say it smells like death. Of course underneath all this debris there are still some dead people, I perceive a smell that I repeat, can be for several reasons but I will say that it smells like death. Here we found what appears to be computer parts. Look at this backpack, it possibly had military purposes. We see phones over here, clothing of all sizes. Look, this one is also a backpack or maybe a military vest, another backpack, like a computer backpack here. And I've already found the reason for this putrid smell coming to me, is this cow here. This is where a lot of the smell is coming from. Very impressive, this cow is possibly here from the times of the bombing. We can still see its structure, its shape, its horns, its skull. What else is underneath all the rubble, that's the question I'm left with. What's underneath this rubble is a complete mystery and it can be from weapons to bodies maybe even some land mines out there, that no matter if the buildings are marked as safe there may be some land mines out there, that's why we are walking only on the very visible road looking where we are stepping on. Here we find more animal bones they are maybe from some cow or something similar. And over here another vest, look an army vest completely burned, completely destroyed. They are showing me another image ok, this is how it looked like and this is what it looks like now. Part because the authorities have tore down a lot of the remains from the houses to make them non-hazardous and they fall on top of the people. We can see some houses that are still standing like this one and maybe that one. And what this text written on the wall says is: don't destroy my house, it's not allowed to destroy my house. Maybe from the proud owners who do not want their home to be destroyed during the sad events, or maybe because the structure is still strong. But that is what you read, it is what the homeowners write. Buildings burned, walls with bullet marks, cars blown up but in the midst of all the bad things one still finds life in this place. Right in front of the whole chaos there is the fish market. You can still see people smiling, children playing, and that I think has an important lesson, that no matter all the misfortunes one can still stand strong, a society can still rise up, and there are more, there will always be many more good guys than bad guys. [Music] This has to be mentioned, not everything is destruction in Mosul, there is a lot of life look, here is the fish market. There is a lot of life, this is the fish market. Part of the city has already been rebuilt, that's what we are going to see now, all of this is the market. Here we can already see life, we can see the people walking around, continuing with the beautiful life cycle. Look, businesses, stores, delicious food of all kinds, new buildings, that one is new, families strolling here without worries. And now it's a little late, that's why you don't see so many people. If you come here in the morning is full, full. I tell you, it's Look at how much life, how many colors, how much beauty. Within all the sadness, within everything that's heartbreaking, society recovers, the city is reborn and yo can feel that and it's very, very beautiful. [Music] After seeing so much destruction today This is &quot;Hamaam Al-Manqusha&quot;, it is a small area that some young locals have rebuilt with the help of donations from international organizations. It's very nice to see it like this illuminated, the houses used to be like this and it's a real shame to think that this whole city, if it hadn't been for the horrible, terrible people, it would be like this, it would be very pretty, very nice to visit. All this a not so great resource but that they knew how to take advantage of it very well. They put here as a symbol the name of the place with a sign like they used to be, just a little bit bigger to eventually make it touristy. Like these young people really want to wake up all this area. In fact there are a lot of stores of many things. We are recording a little late so we didn't find a lot of them open, but we found this one still open that has household stuff, and this one with souvenirs, like to attract tourists and so on. Here we have the good Mustafa, he speaks a little bit of English. Mustafa and the good Bandar are some of the people that have taken it upon themselves to rebuild this area and they want to attract tourism. It's very nice. Look, I have already received a gift and everything. People here are very nice, I've been telling you since I got here. Look how cool, a little bag, in fact this says Mosul. So it's a souvenir from here, from Mosul Of what Mosul is today, of what it should be. This one is also pretty cool, thank you. Shukran! Shukran! I would like to tell them how cool they are but I don't know how to speak Arabic. [Music] Well there you have it, a little bit of what Mosul was and what it is now. A proof that a civilization can be reborn and that, I say it again, we will always be more good guys than bad guys. It's really scary to see what the war can do to a city, to a society. But it is hopeful to know that love always prevails, always wins and kindness will always overcome it. Thank you for joining me in this adventure, in this tour. As always I'll see you in a few days with a new video. Goodbye