Don't move around and shout, &quot; It's hot. Stop talking nonsense. Move quickly . Don't move around. Move quickly. I 'll scare you to death. Sooner or later, I'll scare you to death. What did you press? It's nothing. I pressed the wrong button. Quickly pull it back.&quot; Okay, ah, ah , ah, ah , help me , please help me. Just a few minutes ago, you said you would kill me if you couldn't find the template. What's wrong? Please help me. Did I hear you right? The wound was very large and I lost a lot of blood. It hurts so much . Of course, you can tie the wound with a piece of cloth. That will relieve the pain but speed up the blood flow for up to 5 minutes. You will lose consciousness due to the drop in body temperature and then die in a coma. If you want to crawl from here to the street to seek help, at least you need to You've already died four times in 20 minutes. Stop talking. Please , please, please save me. How do you want me to save you? Send me, send me to the hospital. I think you people are really weird. You just wanted to kill. Now I actually asked me to send you to the hospital. Is your brain broken? What do you want me to do before you are willing to save me? Then it depends on what you can give me. I can do anything. Li Kang and Gao Shibao live in Where does it look like you don't want to live ? Don't leave. I, I, I said, I'll listen again. Mansion No. 80, Fenyang Building. You're finally here. I miss you so much. Captain, Beast Eagle, is here. Are you looking for me? I solved the dispute between my subordinates and the president. You can't stay too long . I think you should leave first. I don't believe that with so many of us, we can't kill a single Yan Shuangying. I went out and killed him. I really didn't expect that Yan Shuangying would find this place . Such a commotion would definitely alarm the headquarters of the Communist Party. I ca n't believe it. I used Baoyu to take away Hua Mingzhu and destroy all the other documents. We are leaving immediately . What are you doing? Okay , I will be there soon . I won't let you go. Oh, don't make a fuss. Something big has happened. You are not allowed to leave. Accompany me. Accompany me. Oh , brothers, let me go. If nothing happens, we need to rush back immediately. Everyone needs to be sober. Let's go . Hey, what's going on? What's going on? There's a power outage . Hey , hey, why did it stop? It seems like there's another power outage. It's grandma's real evil again. Open the fence door and let's sweep it down. What's going on ? It won't open . It's weird. I don't know where it's stuck. Get out of the way. Let me try. Get out of the way. Let me see . Boss, what's wrong? The door was jammed in from the outside. When I got on the elevator just now, there was no one around. Isn't that right? Hum speech. Hero , don't say goodbye. I said we would meet soon. Where are my men? Don't, don't say too much about me . I didn't capture your men . Ask me again where my men are. Brother Yan, brother Yan, I really didn't capture you. My subordinates , please don't be impulsive. I can give you gold bars, marriage , whatever you want. I, Mr. 6 , are you seeing a doctor ? Yes , sir, what are you looking for? It's nothing . Just look at you. If you feel uncomfortable, hold out your right hand. Hey, sir, this is here. Clinic , please don't walk around. I'm sorry. Let's do this. I'll give you some medicine. No need. Don't you have a stomachache? What are you going to do? Shut up and do n't come out. What the hell, don't come out. Tell your uncle and beat the bad guy. Tell your uncle and beat the bad guy. Go away and stand at attention . Orange. Why were you in the closet? Mom and aunt were captured. Who captured them ? Two bad guys captured them. When did this happen? Come on, my fault, my fault. Someone is coming. Suddenly the truck is empty. Someone is coming. Come on, let's go , stop smoking. What do you want? The Duma asked you to come. No one except him knows that Orange will complete the clinic. This time, it's the two of you who act together. If you think I'm in a good mood , you're wrong. So, old man. Answer every question I ask honestly. This time, you two have joined forces, right ? Well, don't shoot . Don't shoot. I said, I said yes. Where are my men ? At the Yan Jiaolong battlefield, you are indeed here. You are not in the hotel. What are you doing here while you are resting ? You seem to be going to fight. This is none of your business. Go back quickly. I know you are going to Yanjiang Road battlefield to save Xiao Jindi and Jiutou. I am right. Now that you know , you shouldn't come. Okay, go back quickly. Lily and I have made an agreement. No matter where you go, we will follow you. Lily will come soon. Song Qingping will be here soon. Do you dare to do anything to die beside me? Even so , this is our choice . What about Qingping ? If he is still a child , do you hope that he loses his mother? In the evening, Lili said to me that what you said in the car in the afternoon , although not pleasant , touched her very much. He could not ignore that his husband was brutally killed by the spies and remained indifferent. He wanted to act indifferently. I am taking practical actions to comfort my husband's spirit in heaven. I am a gangster from the Youth Gang. I started the war with the Guangfu Society for my own benefit. Helping me cannot comfort my husband's spirit in heaven. Lily told me that she has already made a judgment about you , otherwise she would not be able to stay here. What about you? You once laid down your life for me and you haven't recovered yet . I can't watch a woman risking her life for me for the second time. Do you want to keep me? You know this is impossible . Okay, stop talking and let us help you. Thank you. Orange, are you ready? The plan is clear. Don't be nervous. Relax . Brother, why did you come back so late? Hey, it only takes six or seven hours to go back and forth . I have to hide from the Communist patrol. Can I get there early ? I've already gone to call Brother Wu Tianmu. He will be here soon . Hey, where is Mr. Du? Oh, at the headquarters. At the headquarters. Hey, Brother Wu , where is Lu Yunfei ? Brother Lu has something to ask me for at the moment. First, I brought two women back. One of them is called Orange and the other is Xu Lili . They are the doctors who take care of Orange. Well, you did a good job. Take them in. Come out and yell . What are you yelling? I can hear you, you fucking stinky bitch. Okay, okay, don't be like a woman, let them in . I'm going to ask the boss to come over. It's the wolf's den, the wolf's den. I'm No. 1. We're going into the workshop . We're going into the workshop. No. 1. No. 1. I'm the wolf's den. Received and gone. How about going ? I didn't expect it. Now we are all here, but Ye Zongying is missing. Let's go . Okay, brother, thank you for your hard work. Go and have a rest. Good wolf den, wolf den, I am number 1. I am wolf den, I am wolf den. Received number 1. A brother is going out. A brother is going out. Receive it. Go ahead. Brothers, keep your eyes wide open. Take them all away. Hey, wait. What is your name? Zhang A Liu. Why didn't Lu Yunfei come back? Brother Lu said it was urgent. What urgent matter is there to deal with ? He didn't say anything specific, so he asked me to escort these two women back to the battlefield. Go, go, go. It's in the way. Li Kang's men are all a bunch of rabble with no discipline at all. Lu Yunfei actually performed his mission. It's really unreasonable to leave the company in the middle . Boss , Li Kang didn't say anything just now , so don't say anything. Now that the two families are joining forces , it's not a matter of hurting each other over this trivial matter. Let's go. Brother, the boss ordered all vehicles to park in the open space behind the battlefield. Okay. The password is Qinglong Party. The ground is filled with red flowers . Mr. Du, let me go in and take a look at his grandma. Her legs have become thinner this night. Okay, be satisfied. I didn't arrange for him to go to the Dongjia Road. That is the only way to enter the battlefield. Yan Shuangying, that King of Hell. When you come here, you must go there first , eh, what the fourth person said to this newcomer, although there are few people, the danger is small, just walking around, right ? Hey , what is it? It's really evil, it's a will-o'-the-wisp, what the hell, go and have a look, you know. Who am I? Mayor , then I don't need to say more. You are the captain of the patrol team, right? Just tell me the distribution of personnel in the battlefield . How about sparing your life? It's fair enough. OK, I'll do it. Talk about this attitude. I like it. This time it is a joint action between the Guangfu Society and the Sihai Hongmen Society, right? Which family are you from? I am from the Light Radiation Company. What is your name? Song Qi . In addition to Duma and Wu Tianmu , there are also Who is here? Song Manyun, Yao Qianshu , and their dozens of gunmen. Good guys. The four killers are all here. Chen Pengpeng is really off work. Sihai Hongmen Club. Li Kang, Wang Yue , Xiao Qiang, Lu Yunfei , and their men have sent dozens of popular ingredients. Is the workshop the headquarters? You told me about the entire deployment . This operation was planned very carefully by Li Kang and Duma. First, Yao Qianshu led the snipers to occupy the commanding heights of the battlefield . That is the East Tower and is also controlled by the Bird's Nest. Yao Tianshu led the snipers to personally control the situation within the entire battlefield and within 5 kilometers of the battlefield. It was the dyeing workshop of the battlefield , also called the West Tower. There were also snipers on it to mainly control the movement around the sand branch workshop and in the west corridor . There was a large warehouse next to it. The top is the third commanding height, the main surveillance headquarters and Dongjia Road. Since this is the only way to enter the battlefield , the location is particularly critical. Dongma concluded that you will definitely enter the battlefield from there , so he sent many snipers hidden on the roof of the warehouse. His judgment was very Correct , I did enter through the gate. What, how could this be possible? Let me ask you how many snipers there are in total on the east and west towers and on top of the warehouse. Well, I'm not sure about the exact number . There are about 20 people. Go ahead. It's the entire There are 12 patrol groups in the factory area. There are about 10 patrol groups near the commanding heights on Dongjia Road and the headquarters . West Jiadao is where we are. Duma believes that it is impossible to cross Dongjia Road and come directly here, so the guards are relatively weak and there are only two patrol groups. What about Area No. 1, Brother Yan? We are the field team. Area No. 1 is the sand weaving workshop, which belongs to the internal support team. I don't know. I just entered the battlefield workshop and saw that the east wall of the workshop is a row of glass windows. Outside the window is this La Liga. Oh, it's exactly what you said just now that the main task of the snipers on the West Tower is to monitor the Xixia Road . Yes, if your patrol discovers the situation, how do you report it and fire a shot immediately ? Then report your situation to the headquarters Bird's Nest and the West Tower through the incubator in the surveillance room. The specific location of the surveillance room is in the small house at the south end of the road. There are only two patrol groups on the west side of the road. When one group is patrolling, the other group is in charge of the incubator. They report every 10 minutes. Take me there. It's okay . It's been 10 minutes. Why haven't the first group come back yet? I'm telling you, this is not a good thing. Let them wander around more and we can save some effort, right? Hahaha, you kid is so full of tricks. Come out and see if anything really happens. Oh, it can happen. What's up Yan Shuangying can still fly in from God. If you want to fight, you have to start from the east road. Look, you are not coming back. It's you, Old Song. It scared me . Old Song, what's wrong with you? I'm a wolf's den. I'm a wolf. Report situation in each area of the den. Area 1, wolf den, area 1, normal. Area 2, area 2. This is area 2, right? Hurry up, number 2. There is an answer. Wolf den, wolf den, I am No. 2, I am No. 2, everything is normal . 3 No. 3, No. 4, No. 4, No. 4, No. 4, No. 5, No. 5, No. 5, No. No. No. 5, normal. We will contact you in 10 minutes. Are you in touch with Xita through this slide ? Yes , very good, wow, so bright. This flashlight is an American-made Magrat flashlight. It has a spotlight function that is many times brighter than ordinary flashlights. Sit down . Oh, Brother Yan, what are you doing? Didn't you promise to spare my life? Brother Yan, don't worry, I won't hurt you. I just want you to wait obediently for me to come back. Okay, there are still 8 minutes left before the second contact. I have to hurry up and open my mouth. I am Brother Lu Yunfei's subordinate. What are you doing sneakily here? I'm getting something and you are the only one. Sneaky, what's in the bag to eat? Open it and take a look. Hey , go. I'm a wolf's den. I'm a wolf's den. Report the situation in each region. No. 1, region 1, normal. No. 2, region 2. Please answer. No. 2, region 2. region 2. Area No. 2, Area 2 is normal. Area 2 is normal. Area 3. Area 3 is normal. Area 4. Hold the chicken and carry it with me. You talk a lot, okay, what are you doing? The sniper upstairs will find you . Immediately use the pace machine to contact the snipers above and tell them that there is a flashlight light near the low wall and let them check it out . No. 3, No. 3, I am No. 2, I am No. 2. There is a flashlight light near the low wall on Xijia Road. No. 3, No. 3, I am. It's No. 2. I'm No. 2. A flashlight appeared near the low wall of West Home Road. Please check. Please check. You did a good job. From now on, you are my helper. Why do n't I understand that you just used the cloth painting machine to lure the two people on the West Tower ? The sniper turned the muzzle sight and reflected the flashlight light. This allowed me to determine their location and success. But you don't know, right? It's not important. What's important is that you helped me kill two snipers. If this If Duma knows about it , think about how he will deal with you. You have to tell Duma. It depends on your performance. If you help me , of course I will not tell anyone about it. On the contrary, Duma will be there. I know this in 1 second. And you, even if I don't kill you, you will become a dead person in 5 seconds. How about thinking clearly? Okay, I, I, you can think about it again. What else can I do? If you think well, I'll help you very well. Follow me and you won't regret it. I want to regret it but it's too late. Okay, carry the pacemaker and pick up the luggage bag. Let's go. Come with me, Brother Yan. What are we doing here? What is this? Yeah, the detonating wire. Why is the detonating wire here? I just planted a bomb in the workshop. This is the detonating wire that was thrown out. What? You planted a bomb in the future area. Come with me. Will you use a detonator? Will you bring the detonator back to surveillance? After returning to the room, the sound of the meteor transmitter is heard. As soon as you hear Theta's call to No. 2, do you understand, you will immediately detonate the bomb. Yes, Theta's call to No. 2 will detonate the bomb. Can I believe you? Don't worry, I have no choice. Let's go. I'm a wolf. I am a wolf den. Report situation in each region. Region 1, wolf den. Region 1 is normal . Region 2. Region 2 is normal. Region 3. Region 3. Did you hear it? Region 3 is normal. Region 4. Region 4. Region 4 is normal. Region 5. 5. Area No. 5, normal. Contact the wolf den after 10 minutes. I am the wolf den. Report situation in each area. Report situation in each area. Area 1. Area 1. Wang Bo. Area 1. Area 1. Normal. Area 2. Incubator first. Number 2. Everything is normal. Why is there an incubator here? Yes, it's really weird. Go over and see. Area 4. Area 4 is normal. Area 5. Area 5 is normal. Contact us in 10 minutes. What's going on? President Li, Mr. Doro, you see someone broke into the second area of Area 1. It's impossible in the workshop . Ye Shuangying doesn't know that the drag coefficient of the air here has changed. There are intruders . This is certain. I am the second workshop in area 1. There are intruders. There are intruders . Wolf. There is an intruder in the wolf's den. There is an intruder . Is it really Yan Shuangying? Nothing is impossible for Yan Shuangying. No. 1, No. 1. I am the wolf's den. I am the wolf's den. Order brother to fire. Shoot at will . Shoot at will . Method of death No. 1 No. 1 I am the wolf den. Report the situation. Report the situation. The intruder has been solved. The intruder has been solved. How is it solved ? Ye Xiongying haha. Who else would break into the Sand Workshop besides him? Let me go and see. Look , No. 1, No. 1, order brother, firepower, stand by. We will enter the workshop immediately to check . Immediately enter the workshop to check the wolf den, wolf den, received, wolf den, wolf den. I am Duma. I have left area 1. I have left area 1. Start. Vibration Monitor Start Vibration Monitor Yes No Yan Shaolin Theta Call No. 2 Theta Call No. 2 Theta Call No. 2 Theta Call No. 2 No. 12 called No. 2 Yan Shuangying. Yes , Yan Shuangying is here. But how did the boss get in? How could he avoid the sniper in the east tower? The sniper is Orange, Chairman Li. Someone broke into area No. 1, No. 1, No. 1, I am the wolf's den . It was an intruder in the wolf den who opened fire at will . How could there be a bomb in the workshop? ah oh oh damn in this again in this again what fire must be Ye Xiongying. Otherwise, why would the fight be so lively? Just listen to the sound of gunfire . I know this kid is going to be beaten into a sieve . Hahaha, it must be my brother. Sister Orange, let's do it. Stop, don't rush, don't rush, everyone, get ready. Hahahaha, that's not right. President, the sound of the gunshot is a bit strange. How many people can there be in Yanshuang Camp ? People are still calling No. 1 No. 1 for such a long time. I am a wolf's den. I am a wolf's den. How is the situation? No. 1 heard no I am a wolf's den. What's going on with his grandmother ? The president's message channel is occupied. Can the other party listen to what you are saying? What do you mean, someone turned on the call switch of the walkie-talkie. All stations using the same channel cannot receive your call. Go to area 1 immediately to see if it is Mr. Du. You are the bastard . I haven't left yet. Why are you shooting? We are in the firepower point. I can't see the situation outside clearly and I don't know you are in the workshop. Why didn't you listen to the command when you fired ? The command ordered us to fire at will. What did you say? If you don't believe it, ask them if they are really evil. Did Li Kang take the wrong medicine? Mr. Lone Wolf, Mr. Du, Wang Yue, we haven't evacuated the headquarters yet. Why did you order the shooting ? Coco, we heard with our own ears that you said in the cloth machine that you had left Area 1 and asked us to resume vibration monitoring . What are you talking about ? Just now we used the cloth machine to call area No. 1 but there was no response. President Li asked me to come and see. Come with me. Is it Brother Shuangying ? Brother, ? Well, what about you? Look at Jiutou. Everyone is okay, brother, don't worry, we are all okay, Orange Lili, you are amazing, let's leave without further ado. Let's get out of here. How about you? I have no shame to see you. I hurt everyone . You don't need to blame yourself . I want you to come back. I'm ready to tell them the news. If you have anything to say, let's go home. Let's go quickly . Okay , sir. They ran away. It must be Yan Shuangying's fault. They ran away from there. I'm going to catch up soon. hurry i'm going. Out, I'm holding them here and leading the brothers to the West Tower. I put two bags of weapons on the top of the tower and led everyone to guard the West Tower. Brother, what about you? It 's useless. Come on , brothers, Yan Shuangying is suppressed. Rush, West Tower calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Let's see where you are going . How are you going to catch up to Big Brother? We're both up there. No more arguing. We're here to support you. Go quickly . Come on down and hit me. Brother is here. OK . Kang. His subordinates are really a bunch of trash. The ancestors can't blame them. The door to the West Tower is too small. Besides, they are being condescending. Should we withdraw first and then think of other ways ? Throw grenades and shoot quickly to guard the entrance. I never expected that Yan Shuangying would be so ignorant . Sneaking in unknowingly , it seems that Lu Yunfei and his men have died in the hands of Yan Shuangying. Don't you understand? Yan Shuangying must have killed Lu Yunfei who went to kidnap Orange and then disguised himself as his driver. Do you think it's strange for me that Orange came here and infiltrated into the battlefield without anyone noticing ? How could Yunfei, a gangster killer of the Hong Kong gang, escape in the middle of the mission? It's so powerful, boss! Sita is easy to defend but difficult to attack . The damage from a forced attack will be huge . What do you think we should do ? The East Tower is at least four or five meters higher than the West Tower . We can use this commanding height to organize the attack from above . This is a clever plan . Well, Li Yunna, you All the snipers on top of the warehouse have been exposed within the scope of the West Tower. Order them to evacuate immediately and assemble in front of the East Tower. You and your men are still guarding the West Tower gate. We can't walk out from here. Do n't worry, they can't escape. I have to rush back to the headquarters immediately to rearrange the manpower and prepare for the attack. Quick , quick, quick, are you? I am the password of the second patrol group, Qinglong Party. Where are your brothers ? They are patrolling outside. Lao Wang ordered everyone to gather under the East Tower. Oh, it's you. You did a great job. I just received the order. Everyone, gather under the East Tower. Yes, I understand. Let 's all gather together quickly. It's really hot. It's new year. Come here to do it. You will understand what Nie Shuying is after a while . Nie Shuying rescued the hostages. Don't panic. He has been trapped in the west tower by us. What should we do now? Immediately mobilize all the hands on the battlefield. Gather at Dongta Gorge. Hey, we can no longer use the incubator. Why is it that Yan Shuangying has mastered our communication channel? Xiaoqiang immediately ordered people to go to the factory to summon commandos from various patrol groups. Gather at Dongta Gorge. Okay . I just saw it on Xijia Road. Two brothers from the patrol group were killed on the roadside. It's really a joke that so many people were being led around by one Yan Shuangying. Old Qiao, are all your people here? I've notified all the patrols. The team and the commando team should be gathering towards the east tower soon . Come on, Lao Xiao. Organize your men to set up another line of defense outside the bunker in case of emergency. I will take my men to the top of the tower to assist the money tree in attacking the west tower. Okay, team one and team two will follow me to the top of the tower. It's the boss, Chairman Li, who 's going to say it first. What's going on ? Is there any movement on the other side? I didn't even see anyone on the other side. I'm surprised why there's no movement on the other side. Huh, Yan Shuangying must not have thought that we would condescendingly attack from the east tower. Our intention was very different . Obviously , you can't hide it from Yan Shuangying. Then why do you think he has any conspiracy? Humph, Old Du, you have been bitten by a snake once and have been afraid for ten years. There is no movement on the other side of the well rope. What kind of conspiracy are you afraid of? Mr. Du , Mr. Li Yunna, is preparing to play house. Soul fat. Are all the fire points ready? Don't worry. The sniper points and fire points are all ready and ready to fire at any time . Boss , we are all ready. Let's send two brothers to inspect. President Li, let's start. The first group is ready to attack. Stop shooting and start attacking . Go up. Well, Lao Du, you have a really good idea. Let's see where they run this time and let the brothers launch an attack. OK , uh , ah, ah, wow , OK, hey , if they have any situation, report to me immediately. Report well, pay attention to concealment, be clear, and send a signal to ask Wang Yue to stop Yang Gong to stop shooting. What's wrong? They retreated. Let everyone save ammunition. I did n't expect you are quite experienced. I have received special training . By the way, there are double eagles. Oh, we just reached the top of the tower. I have n't come down yet. I blame him for what he's doing. We don't have much ammunition. Do we have to stay here all the time ? Yes, how long will it take to count? Can we rush out ? No, they have so many people and strong firepower that we can't rush out. Oh , where's my brother ? I'm going to find him at the top of the tower . Hey, you're here again . Why don't you talk to him about you? But when will the battle begin? Let 's wait patiently. He will definitely find a solution. Really. The rubbish and rubbish made a Yan Shuangying spin around in confusion. Are you talking about me, President Li? You are called the chief instructor of the military command , but you have repeatedly failed to deal with a mere youth gang gangster. This is too shameless. President Li said it very lightly. Ah, the gangster of the Qing Gang, this is well said. I heard that the Sihai Hongmen Club also dealt with this gangster of the Qing Gang. But what was the result? Boss, how can we compare with others? The Sihai Hongmen Club just died in Gao Shibao's lair. It's just taken away and there's nothing else . You little bastard, you dare to talk to me like this just because you're a little bastard. You, the surnamed Li, are the bastard. You Four Seas Red Gate Society are all a bunch of losers. I'm going to fucking die. You , Mr. Du, Brother Song, Brother Yao , calm down, President Li, please calm down. Oh, everyone, please calm down. President Li, surnamed Li, please listen clearly. We are here to help on the orders of the president. What will be gained when things are done. You are not my Duma. Let me tell you the truth. If it weren't for the president's sake, why would I listen to your orders? Do you dare to shoot me? If I can't kill Yan Shuangying, why can't I kill you? You 're the one who died in the sea of fire . Brothers of the Photovoltaic Society , how have you ever shown any fucking effort? Your loser, Lu Yunfei, ran to the city to catch oranges but lured Yan Shuangying back. Are you just a bunch of losers ? Well, Mr. Du is one of our own, so why bother? It's so tense. Is there anything you can say? You say I'm a waste . Okay, from now on, you can deal with Yan Shuangying on your own. Brothers, gather together, let's go. Brothers, Mr. Du, don't be angry, Mr. Du, don't be angry. Why is this? No , let's go. Let's go , President, let's go. I have over a hundred brothers from the Hongmen Society in the Four Seas. How can I be afraid of a small Yan Shuangying Xiaoqiang ? I mobilize all the troops in front of the west tower gate to attack with all my strength. I don't believe it . What if we can't attack it? Mr. Ma is here. Have you been discovered? Get in the car and hide under the seat. Okay , they are leaving. It's strange . President, why don't you come here to the headquarters ? Dou Ma, this coward, led people to run away. It doesn't matter what Baoyu Xiaoqiang organized him immediately. Everyone must attack the tower and take it down. They are ready to fight. Sister Orange, brothers, I can't stand it anymore. Go find Brother Ye. Don't worry, don't fight. Thank you. How are you ? It's okay. I still have a pulse. What should I do? What should I do? Is it serious? Is it okay? The heart was not injured , but the blood loss is too much. We need to be rescued immediately. It's too late. It's too late. What should I do, Sister Orange? You guys cover me to find Ye Shuangying. It's good . If not, shoot Master Wang. I'll kill them. Why hasn't Orange come back? It's just an orange. What's going on down there? Yu Rongping is injured . Brothers can't stand it anymore. Can he survive the injury? Lili said he didn't hurt his heart , but he lost too much blood. He needs to be rescued as soon as possible . Director , I understand. I'm going. Brother, brother , everyone and little Jinni are going to Sita. Orange is waiting for you there. I'll cut off the nine heads. I also want to stay and stop talking nonsense. Let's go quickly . Brother , is it Yan Shuangying ? I just saw a man in the car. It must be him. Isn't he in the west tower? Why did he come outside? President, let's withdraw. This guy is not easy to deal with. The people who radiate light have all run away. Why should we sacrifice our lives for him? If I don't leave, you still have dozens of brothers. I don't believe that you can't kill him. But President Yan Shuangying can grow up. The sound of such a loud explosion will definitely spread far away . If you stop the Communist Party , it will be a big deal. Solve the battle as soon as possible. King Wang said , someone will move the scale away . It's Xiaoqiang. Come on, come on, come on . Brother Shaoying, come on, put him on his back. Come on , be careful . Oh , okay , they can't stand it. I stopped and ran to the top of the tower. Brothers, come up to me. Hey, it's strange. Why is there no one? People are evil. Could it be that they are flying up to the sky ? They are running away. They are running away. Give me a chase. What 's going on? Come to me. Come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , brother Yan, his name is Song Qi , he is my friend , ah, it is very dangerous here. Yu Ru Bingping is seriously injured , so we have to leave you right away. If you don't leave, Song Qi and I will have to wait a little longer . Crazy, what are you waiting for ? Don't argue with me anymore at this time. Can you handle Lili and Yu Ruping's injuries? It should be fine. Orange Jiutou, you guys will escort Lily and Yu Ruping back to the clinic for treatment. Can Duma, those people? Go back to the clinic to find trouble. Don't worry , you are safe from today . Brothers can't go back to Binhai these days. Brother Jin, you are quite familiar with the suburbs and counties around Binhai. Take everyone to hide outside for a while. Brother Yu Ruping is suffering for me. I want to stay and take care of her injury . The Shaoying Clinic is not very big , so it is more convenient for Xiao Jingdi to stay. Well, brother , I have a good friend named Wu Asan in the Zongzao Gang in Jiangwan District. We can lead the brothers to hide in him. Go home , okay, just do it like this. After this is over, I will go find you and get in the car. Be careful , um , Xiaoxi, go quickly. Xiao Jiang is dead. Where is Ye Chuiying? They are clearly in the tower. How could they disappear? I don't believe he can fly . Could he fly into the sky and search for me ? President, if there is a quarrel here tonight, the security forces here will definitely be alerted. If they don't evacuate , I'm afraid it will be too late. I don't care, I don't care, I must kill him. Ye Xiongying must kill him. Brothers, please search carefully. The president is not good. The Air Force is coming. Drive , ah , ah , ah, get down. Brothers, focus your firepower on him, suppress him. The clown retreats . Brothers, get up and rush for me. Rush out for me, brothers. Get up and rush out of this door. If you stay here, no one can survive the Communist Party. If you want to survive, rush out and rush . Eyes, brother, stop shooting. Stop shooting. The people inside listen. Disarm and surrender immediately . You know our policy. Don't kill me, keep resisting . Brothers, the boss has run away. Why should we fight to surrender? Surrender, surrender, surrender. All the trapped people listen, raise your hands , line up and come out. Do n't move , move, don't move . Oops, brothers , are all done? Don't worry, President, I have left a green hill. Don't worry about running out of firewood. Let's leave as soon as possible. Let's go.