[Music] [Richard Beards] So today, myself and Lucy are going to be talking about our AI and Send project... the agenda for what we're going to talk about, a little bit strategy, the Innovation Hub we've kind of just kicked off, and then majorly then, talking about our Send project, some of the challenges, and then a lot about the value that Jadu have added, you know... we haven't been paid by Jadu for this. A lot of the things that we say about them are very genuine, they've been like, not just part of our team, it's just been really integrated, it's been a fantastic experience. Even though there's been a lot of challenges for us, they've been great for us. Some about what's next and then... Lessons Learned, which there's been quite a few. So we've got a wider digital team. As I said earlier, the January. I felt I've got a free hit for that good decision, but our wider digital team has been working on various things. So although we're called - I'm called - the Innovation team, a lot of the digital work that we do, that have done before me has been really Innovative as well. So a couple of weeks ago we held one of the Jadu connect days that's Megan Crowthers in the team, she did all the organization with Jadu for that, and talking about some of the projects on the right hand side. So, over the last couple of years, we've already been working on various things around chatbot to Alexa Smart Skills... the WNC app is massively popular. I can't take any credit for it, it wasn't anything to our website as liked by our members as they like the app. That is all they talk about at our place, so... but the AI and Send, that was obviously wider digital team. The word Innovation, we're using that all the time at the council, people are going to be sick of it, you know, we need to think of digital team are working on lots of automation, really cool projects... and there's some of the awards that were given out to the product owners at the connect day, just to celebrate some of the work that has been done. So when I said, like in the first year, I felt I'd got a free hit in my role. I would take a bit of a steer from our chief exec's office, just to see what are some of the wicked issues, what's causing us problems, where do we lose money... where can service improvement be, all of that kind of thing... and one of the areas I was asked to look at was housing, homelessness, so shadowed some of that service... to understand what the issues were there, and that was a service - again, that was a little bit low on morale - we ended up making a film, a documentary film, promoting our Outreach service, all the great work that that homeless service do. Creating a virtual reality experience of it to give people that sort of empathy on the ground, what it's to be homeless, the challenges that people face. We've toured wider. So that was the bottom left premiere that we did. Used Virtual Reality quite a lot, social Enterprise in in West Northants, VR therapies educational needs facilities... this was around well-being in Care Homes, some great results there. Really good engagement, and then the top right picture - jumping around a little bit - is a special educational needs school, school and more children are getting SEN transport, and that's costing us quite a lot of money, individuals getting taxis... so we were using VR to see if buses and public transport. Some really good results on that one. We run something called Digital Northants - that's the merch I've got on today - so that's, like, a little bit outside of the council, like a community initiative, who's using technology, whether it's schools, social Enterprises, businesses, any interesting stories, and we'll promote that... that's one of our big Tech showcase day, we show all those things off, and that's really good for collaboration and connections. And then the bottom right picture, that was the virtual reality experience of the homeless film that we created. So that doing things like that, a little bit random, but trying to make some noise in the organization about what we were doing. And then I said earlier that we've been going to different SMTs, of DTI, our Chief Information Officer, and pitching the word Innovation and saying things, you know, we can come and do AI, we can do all these different Technologies. We didn't make a lot of, much of a dent in that, that was probably about 12 months ago - this time 12 months ago - and then when I started this year, about the members, we kind of took a different approach... we did a lot of research, we were kind of put on a war footing within DTI to look at, what are some of the use cases that other councils are doing across different Technologies. So robotic process automation, Predictive Analytics, internet things... we did huge amount of research on it and we put together this slide deck. The top 25 things that we found, and then we did kind of things that we're finding out there, we've dug into some of the numbers, you know, councils are actually using this, this is not just Theory Pie impact that the councils making out there, and that was the start, really, that was probably about four months ago, five months ago, that started to then really get traction, that really opened the door then. Members then started raising that why aren't we doing this stuff, why aren't we being more Innovative? And that started to drive a little bit more change. So, that led about half a million pounds to our DTI can do, run some of these pilots that you've talked about, show that you can make an impact.&quot; It was all about the bottom line in terms of savings, you know, automation, where we can make those savings, so that is our head of DTI - Digital Technology Innovation - on the right side, Chris Wales, he loves marketing, he's all into promotion and just shouting about what we're doing, so as we're put on this kind of war footing in DTI to create or like our Innovation Hub, so it's like a Virtual areas of our core IT team, wider digital team, hours to, kind of, come in and do this research and be part of this unit. So this was our launch day, this is probably about 4 weeks ago, where we launched this Innovation Hub. Our chief exec was there with Chris, basically talking through the slide I just showed, all these different ideas, what we're looking to do with pilots and basically, trying to put the whole Council on a war footing for emerging technology, I'd our struggles around finance and things like we're trying to cut budgets, can we innovate our way out of this? Can we look to apply some of this technology out there to some of our problems? So it was amazing, it was like a gladiatorial arena, this is our atrium at our West Northants corporate building, there's about 500 people there, about another 500 people online. So it was really, I was really surprised, the impact was really good. So what we did from those 25 ideas members with as much detail as we could, and they picked the first two pilots that were running. So, Predictive Analytics in homelessness, this is one where you can join your data sets together... give one view of the customer, and then with the AI model, you can kind of predict the people that are in in your service, in the council in 12 months of becoming homeless. That one was really powerful, so when we're talking about technology and people being scared, this is like technology for good. That is a message that we're always trying to sell, you know, this can help not just automation, not just about jobs, this is about helping people externally. So, if we can identify people who are at risk of becoming homeless, get our interventions in earlier, you know, it saves the council money, but it saves people's lives as well. And then, AI across the first point of contact, trying to divert people from calling in, using website. So that kind of brings us up to date, that is... that has kicked off two weeks ago, those two pilots... so going back, probably to the start of this year, after I've scrambled around for the first year, trying to make an impact... some of the relationships that we'd made within the council, and that was part of my role, really, is to try and find those enablers, those innovators in the council that I could collaborate with... the that we developed... we were understanding some of their problems, and that was a pilot that we were really keen to look at at the product owners, I did say to Lucy when she Alice in the middle, if you could put a red X our product owners already through this project. And then Candice is our final product owner, she's still there... we need her to stay and finish ladies there, they were really the the galvanizer for us, we got a good relationship when we were pitching these ideas, they were the ones that were the enablers back into the service to promote it, to sell it, to be the owners of it. So they really is just fantastic, really passionate about this meetings and just keep all the stakeholders updated. When she left that was a big loss. She actually left to go to Enfield Council, to this project having, you know, no real knowledge of technology, and she ended up leading the AI program there, so if nothing else comes out of this, she got a fantastic promotion and a new job. So with building that relationship, we knew that this service... you know, needed a little bit of support, so on the website we'd already got an online form. Parents who think they've got children who might have an SEN need can get an assessment - a statutory assessment - the Education Health and Care plan, that's a form on our website people can fill in, it comes into the council, into the team, and then it gets processed. It should be about 20 weeks before the child gets assessed, or the parent gets an answer. And we were, you know, the numbers that were coming in, we weren't getting anywhere near that that SLA, so sometimes it was taking a year, sometimes longer than that for parents to to get their answer and get an do it, I pitched around just to say, &quot;Look, we haven't used anything around AI yet, could AI help us in your service?&quot; I knew that they'd got a shortage of Education psychologists, so I said, &quot;Could it replace the psychologist, could it support the education psychologist?&quot; Having no idea about their process, no idea how we would do it internally, but just kind of putting it out there. And both Alice and Olivia were massively enthusiastic from the beginning... I don't know why, I think part of it's probably that relationship that we'd got built. But they replace education psychologists, that's way too advanced, we wouldn't do that anyway.&quot; But they did think it could help right at the beginning of comes into the team, everyone has to read through the forms, all the documents that come in, you know, it's a really laborious process. They would of the time, some of the applications that come in are just obvious yeses, you know, once they've gone through that, it's obvious that that child is going to get assessed. And they said, &quot;Well, if the AI could start with that area and just do an assessment, look at the information and just tell us, yeah, that's a yes, pass it on, we can just spend our time looking at the no's, the maybes, those things.&quot; So it would start that process to speed up. So this slide appears a few times, this is when I get - or go to - the education team's management team sell the project and reassure people that we're not doing anything we shouldn't do, or AI is taking over their service. So that first time we went to that meeting, I was really surprised at how really into it they were, backing it they were. The director there, the senior people were very cautious of it, but on the ground they're all for it. One guy did think AI stood for Artificial Insemination... [Laughter] I laughed when he said it, and he through this, so the Jadu team did have to have a sense of humor working with us... so that kicked off, so we got the backing to do this project, that is when Suraj magically appeared into our world. As a council, you know, West Northants had joined... with four councils that joined together, about 3 years ago as a unitary. In my world, we hadn't really had a relationship with Jadu before that. Other people from different boroughs had, so this is really my first meetings with the team, and Suraj talked about this new emerging Tech Team, Rhian's team, Steve's team, that they were putting together, and this was a project that they really like to work on, so that was fantastic for us. We thought &quot;Right, we've got a route now to actually deliver something.&quot; Whether suraj still But... that's what happened. So this was the first meetings we had, Suraj and the team pitched this to say, &quot;Right it' be an 8 week proof of concept, this is how we would do the project.&quot; That 8 week project kicked off in April, so we're now in October so, the maths don't quite work out for an 8 week project, nothing to do with Jadu, but a lot of the lessons that we've learned. So, the rapid scope and exercise, the discovery, that definitely happened, some fantastic work that Rhian did there to understand the end to-end process, you know, we hadn't looked at any of that. Playing back... what we'd found to the service, looking at the different options around AI, showing that back to the service and then getting them to pick which ones they want, developed the PoC... and kind of go from there. So this was our kickoff day, we tried to make a big deal out of it, you know, we had our people here. This is our assistant chief exec in the there, we had the director on teams came to the same meeting, the chief exec was there. You know, we did all the right things in getting the backing from the high level for this, because this was an area, a service that needed to, you know, needed the support and we needed to try and streamline, so we had people from schools... you can see Olivia on the far left there, Rhian's there, one of our old buildings in Northampton. This was our kickoff day. Steve did a fantastic presentation to say exactly what this project was, what it wasn't... the proof of concept, what it means, what this technology team would do... just really built the credibility, all about delivery. I think, on our side in DTI... take a long time, they can lack belief that we can deliver these things, so I think it is about being able to build that confidence in people that confidence and momentum and partnering up with someone then, with that much credibility really, really helped us. So this was the discovery a blurred photo, but you get an idea - they map the whole Journey there, from when the form comes in, what the service do to look at the form, all to end about how the assessments take place, all the handoff to different Health Services, to schools, where things can slow down. Different color post its there, would just show where the pain points were and where the possibilities were for then mapped that digitally for us, so we could have a copy of that. You can see that at the top there, that's what that process pretty would take place. Again, Rhian was just leading all of this, you know, fantastic at talking to people in that service, getting them to open up, really understanding how everything worked, what the problems were. And this was done, you know, this was a very rapid part of the project, wasn't it? And so, the playback side of it, these were the different ideas that Jadu then played back to the service to say, &quot;These are the areas that we think AI could play a part.&quot; So looking at things around the actual creation of plans, children get an SEN plan once they've been assessed, if they're eligible, they get a plan created. That was a once they've been created, lots of different areas and the service themselves then pick the two, so the opportunity around the guidance on the website, building an AI model around the local offer... and other parts of the early help prevention AI over that to make it a lot easier to find that information, and then the machine learning decision around the assessment side, so those obvious yeses building the machine learning for that part. So once we got to that, the next stage then was the form side. So this is where Lucy is going to take over and talk about the joys of [Lucy Cox] Thank you. Yeah, so my name is Lucy Cox, I'm a business analyst in the web and Innovation team within digital service... it's been a proper pleasure, I would say, to obviously, we're talking about the timelines and how it's obviously been extended more than we were expecting, but not a lot of things tend to go to plan anyway in local government, the way you, you know, originally designed it, so... it's just loads of invaluable knowledge from Rhian, Mike, and Steve in the consultant team, so I just want to kind of, pass on my thanks, I guess, at this point. And I'll talk a little bit about the form. So, I think Richard mentioned earlier, there was an online form already in place... and what we discovered quite early on, when we engaged with the Send service was that the form in place at the moment wasn't really fit for purpose, they'd been planning to redesign it for a while anyway, so with, obviously, this piece of work, there would probably be no point in trying to train this AI model on the old version of the form, because the quality of the data wouldn't be what they would want anyway and what they would use to make a yes, maybe, or a no decision on a on a child to be assessed. So we worked with the Jadu team on creating the form within the Jadu space... we've made sure to add in certain features to of building on what we already had, but adding some some extra features, so being able to prevent people from filling the form in, for example, if makes them ineligible for the service anyway. So just kind of keeping those features in, I thought was quite important. The form itself, so, obviouslyl like... I'm sure a lot of people here are aware, a lot of application style forms will young person details, Etc. The real... I guess the detail in the form that we needed to focus on, and this is actually what we're using to to train form that asks for information about the child's identified needs. So this is an example of one of the sections, so the West Northants Send service use something called the Send ranges. I think the Send ranges are kind of used widespread across all of the local authorities, or it's being... or that practice and framework is being rolled out. wanted to highlight the use of that document more, so we've linked to it from within each of these sections in the form. It's obviously not sensory needs, they don't have to fill this need to get all of the detail that we possibly I'm kind of jumping out of the main request for a statutary assessment form, just for a very brief moment, to talk about the other opportunities that we've been able to, I guess Fast Track, as we've done this pilot with Jadu around being that we've been able to then tailor so that you can put it into the submission screen of any Jadu form that we have. You could even extend it to any other system that you might want to collect feedback for. I guess through my time of working in local governments, I've been working for the council for eight years, I've had experience sort of a built-in feedback feature... and very feedback that came through, so I've kind grown quite thick skin over time through reading some of that feedback - but actually, I've learned as well that it's really invaluable to have a in some cases, rather than just having something, you know, placed on the website. We have got a rate this page feature on our website, but I think end of somebody's experience, because they're obviously doing the task they want to do, they're doing something that they came to do, and then if they're feeling positive about it, or if they're feeling, you know, frustrated about something, we're then giving the opportunity for them to fill it in to to tell us that information at the end. So this pilot gave us the the opportunity to add that in. Originally we actually had a field form, please leave your feedback if you want to.&quot; I didn't want that feedback to follow the RSA, I wanted to keep it separate so that we as a, you know, web and Innovation team, could review that and make improvements to the form whilst the service just dealt with the, you know, their information. don't want to burden them with any comments technically about the form, that they wouldn't be able to fix. So we were able to work with feature... so the the field at the top that says automatically pulls through text, and that's what I was getting out and I said about, you can basically reuse this form for any other transaction that you might have. I think I've spoken to our CRM lead, and she's going to add this into some of our more high traffic forms, like Garden waste and all those kind of exciting processes as well. And then, were able to get done, so as Richard mentioned, we are a unitary Authority and all of the sort of, the platforms that we are using are kind of absolved from The Sovereign councils.. there was a lot of patching up, I guess, to do and... a lot of the new West Northants branding. And the branding on the right is what the forms used to look like, there were definitely some elements of the stuff like that. We wanted to make sure that that was... kind of all gone for when the form went live, just so that we had bit more of a, I guess matches the website more. The branding on the left hand side is now what it looks like, apart from the burgundy loading bar. Ignore that, it doesn't look like that, it's definitely blue now. But... it was just a really good opportunity to... to have some conversations obviously during the discovery day for the AI and Send work, done at the same time, so really beneficial. Now I guess my role as a business analyst is to try and take the more complex information, translate it and sort of speak to other stakeholders. In this case, obviously the Send service, where our key stakeholders to try to get the information across to them without absolutely bamboozling them. And this, to this day still kind of bamboozles me, so I'm going to try and explain it a little... overview of the architecture of how the new through to the machine learning model. So Mike... his background is in architecture, but he's obviously part of the consultancy team, he put this together. So obviously the first stage is the form submission... that then passes from Jadu Central forms into Jadu Connect, so the CRM system, and then via web, you know, web Hooks and Via an API, it then passes into the... the back office, which is actually using Amazon web services. So I just want to highlight a couple of the key steps, and I guess, more of the interesting stuff... so a little bit about the word pseudonymization, or pseudo anonymization. Again, bit like what Richard was saying earlier about co-production, that word is ingrained in my brain... but it's quite a cool, scientific word to me. So, pseudonymization personally identifiable information, and kind it's then replaced with like some kind of fake so that when you match the information back up, it's possible to do that. There were lots of conversations behind the scenes when we were discussing this, where we'd originally planned to replace personally identifiable information with fake information, so fake names. John Smith, for example. But we... interestingly, they sort of said that if we were to do that, we wouldn't want the machine learning model to pick up... like, &quot;Okay, that John Smith was a definite yes, so now I'm going to start to learn that any more John Smiths that come through, I'm just going to say they're a definite yes.&quot; So by completely stripping out that personally identifiable information and just having it match to the case ID, the case ref from Jadu Connect, there's no possibility that the model can start to learn based on that learning, the decision- making stage, obviously it's got the information around those identified needs that was entered into the form. What also trains the machine learning is, when the service received the email notification to say the form has been on a link in that email to fill in a form that or whether that child has gone to assessment, or whether they haven't, or whether it was a maybe. They make those decisions through a panel that they have every Wednesday, and the idea being that information, so they'll continue live with this form, we're obviously developing the machine learning model behind the scenes, the service are then expected to go into that form every time there's a case to say, &quot;This was a yes, this was a no.&quot; Then obviously, those decision points will go to the the decision- making as well. The idea then, so once the machine learning has started to develop and started to learn, the response preparation takes place and that response then gets fed back into Jadu Connect, where the service will review that. I think one of the key things, pilot so far has been around that reiteration... I guess, like Richard's saying about some of the, sort of, senior stakeholders, reiterating that no decisions are being made by computers without human intervention. We're obviously we're not just going to let it make decisions on our behalf, and just leave it to do its thing. It's very much a case of building that ever, you know, we're hoping we will will be making really accurate decisions that the service have reviewed and they've gone, &quot;We're happy now, we'd like to roll this out and let it start to make those 'yes' decisions.&quot; You know, going forward with maybe less intervention, they might check one in every five, for example... and this was a really key Workshop that we held, in order to kind of understand how we would train the machine learning modelas well. So alongside obviously, the information that's fed by the actual EHC team, there's some design work that happens when the Machine model is initially created. So this was a really valuable tiny screens that are really helpfully small, so was talking about collecting the identified needs information. There's questions in there like, you know, what are the identified needs? How are they impacting education? Is there any sort of support in place at the moment with the in the school? Has that had an impact? Those kinds of questions, and then the different color Post-it notes are linked with those questions where we've basically sat with SENCOs who obviously have a background in, you know, obviously dealing with the child. We worked with the EHC team as well, who most of them have also been SENCOs in the past, and we've basically said, what are the key words, what are the key phrases? What would you expect as an output in these fields that would then child needs to be assessed, and also what doesn't as well? So what would tell you, actually they sound like they're doing fine, especially, the school have implemented something and it's working, the child is less likely to be, you know, put through for an assessment because, you know, what's in place at the moment is working for them. Now I'm going to pass back over to Richard [Richard Beards] So it's gone very, smoothly really, with the service in terms of the AI part, the form, you know, the co-production piece took a long time. Having all the people that did slow it down. But the AI part, we hadn't had any issues with really, over the whole project, until we were getting close to go live, then again, this slide, that's when I go back to the going to go live, the AI part isn't there yet. We're still going to be building that in the background, the form will need about 100 submissions, and have that data there for the AI model to start working. Even then, the AI model will be behind the scenes, just doing its thing, it doesn't affect anything that you're doing. You're going to carry on with the same process, and then you can just look at the results that that AI model is showing you, hopefully, you will start to use it, build that carry on developing this model and looking use it.&quot; So that is kind of where we're at, at the minute, in terms of the form. The form is now live. We've had about 25 submissions, there's We're troubleshooting some of the things with the form. This is a monster form, this is a complicated form. When it comes to some of the things that Rhian talks about at the start of the Change Management side, I was all about the AI part; let's get this One of the, probably the issues, is we almost we'd put so much work into it, because some of the product owners had left... that was an issue. We probably needed a bit of advice to say, look we need to soft launch this, we need to get the schools who are going to be filling it in, even though we've got SENCOs involved in development and the co-production, the people who are filling it in need to know this is going to be changing. This is a big form, they use it all the time. They're the basics. That's a key lesson for us, doesn't matter if it's an AI project, or any other project. And then throughout the project, Rhian would talk about the digital fundamentals, the foundations in place. If we' have had that form in place at the beginning, and this was just an AI project, what a lovely project this would have been. It would a film at the end of it. But you know, that benefits that have come from obviously, making that form as well, at the same time. So I'll just quickly round up, really, the second part of the project was the chatbot. So we've started to develop that, that's not ready yet, that's in user research, that talks about the picnic in the park, these are some of the photos from the day. So Jadu came, brought some brownies. Again, the sun was shining there, so that was great for us to get that insight about how people use the local offer, the website now. How they potentially would use a chatbot, and then this slide just around the value that Jadu have added to us. You know, showing all the whole process that they would use, their methodology. That's, you know, been fantastic for us, we wouldn't have known that process end to end from our team, you know, it's not mine and Lucy's background, we're like from the website background, not necessarily Discovery people. Lucy's getting into that in her new BA role. Their knowledge around SCN, was huge, you know, that empathy that she could show with the service, with the parents, was fantastic. Coming and doing the picnic in the park, the enthusiasm. This wasn't just a technology supplier, when you have the sales part of the working with a different team. This was like a really consistent approach all the way through for us. They couldn't have owned it, you know, joint product owners. They couldn't have done any more from that side of things. And then just some of the other things that we do, the event we did last year, that Showcase Event. We talked about having lots of presentations throughout the day, Steve came and did a presentation for us there, talking about this project, the homeless film that we talked about, we had some premieres for that in our Museum. Bottom right there, one of the VPS from Jadu came to that. They didn't have to come to that, you know, they wanted to come to that because of the social change interest that they had got backing us there, it's fantastic that they came to that. And then Suraj came to the one on the left, we showed the film again in our Atrium. So that kind of backing and just enthusiasm for what we were doing as a service, as a council, you know, I felt that really meant a lot to... us, and it gave us that sort of credibility of the chat bot - this is where I want it to that to be part of our main search and our website. Our search at the minute doesn't search the local offer, or our other directories. We've got third they're separate websites. This is where I think, you know, ChatGPT is fantastic, you can just search that and it brings all of this information together, so we're not using ChatGPT technology, but if we can use that AI model to search all of our sites, our directories, and then guide people through that knowledge, that is a game changer for me. If we can get to that, and the ability to answer questions and guide people through knowledge that is just that's where we need to get to, we will get ranges document, that's what you can also do with these chat bots, you can upload documents to it, so it doesn't just search the website. This is something that the schools and the SENCOs use, this is their Bible when they're working with children to understand some of their needs. If we could upload that into the chat, so that's the knowledge I don't know if that music's the end bit for me. I've touched on some of it, maybe a prediscovery, I think probably knowing the form wasn't in place would we have done the same pilot? Probably not, we might have picked a different AI model to test, we would have still built the form, we needed to build a form for them, but we might have been out to test this and pilot it on something else, Steve pitched at the very beginning and Rhian reiterated on... yeah, we kind of didn't always follow what the advice and guidance was, so the knowledge that they've got is definitely ingrained in us. And then the product owner consistency, you know, again these are basics, probably everyone knows it, as soon as you got the word AI, you know, we just think it's a different kind of project. The rules don't apply, the same rules always do apply for these projects. So I think we've gone a little bit over, sorry about that, [Applause] [Music]