When it comes to making money online, it seems like there are so many people giving false information So in today's video, I'm going to share with you some real credible businesses to start as Now in this video I'm going to share with you three very specific The first one is going to So if you have no skills and you want to start something today that's actually going to work. This is the business model for you. The second online business is going to be a very easy And then the third one has the potential to make you the most money the fastest. Now, for all three of I have made full step-by-step tutorials, totally for free on my YouTube channel. This is typically the part They tell you about a business idea, but they don't teach you how to do it unless you pay for the course So guys, just before we I do wanna just take one quick second to give you some credibility about myself. If you are anything like me, whenever I'm getting financial advice or business advice from before I'm taking any of So I've personally done all and over the years of doing them, I've made something like These business models absolutely work. I've been in the trenches And in the videos on my what I've done to get So you can do it as well. Alright guys, without further ado, let's get straight into And all I ask is if you do find as you're watching it, please and let me know down in the comments. Okay? So starting with the like I said, this is the easiest one that anyone can start today. Let me switch you over to the computer and show you this one. So what this one is is Amazon Now, you may have seen and essentially what this is and sell them on Amazon. Now, I don't want you to write full books for this. You can actually create daily planners or blank journals, all and you can sell those on Amazon with KDP. So I'll put up a really big that you can create KDP books with, and then I'll show you some So hopefully this list gives of different types of But here are some real examples. So this is a password logbook. Every page in here is the same and it's just formatted to Another example here is just where people can keep notes, And then some of my favorites here, these are word search books. So if you know how to which in the free tutorial on this channel, it'll show You can create books like this where they are themed word searches and sell those on Amazon. Now the thing that I love so is all we have to do is on our computer front and then what's going to be on each page. And if you have the right so easily and you upload and then that creates a virtual And when someone purchases it, Amazon actually prints this physical book and ships it out to the customer. We don't have to print anything, we don't even take care It's all done on Amazon. So let me quickly switch and show a real example of this. On Amazon, if you type which is ones that I was this is going to be all results. And for the vast majority of these, they're going to be done with Amazon KDP. So if you click on one of these listings, which just looks like a this is actually done with KDP. So the person who is selling cover here, the back cover, and then you don't even Besides that it has 131 pages, but when someone purchases and ship it out to them something like this. So guys, as a total to create these covers and what's inside of the for free in that tutorial, so many different ideas to or any other types of journals and you can upload them Now, there is so much more for this business model, video moving along. Trust me when I say there out there besides the ones on this list that you can start for very low risk. You don't have to spend or marketing, and you within the first month that you start. So guys, if you do want there's a full step-by-step tutorial linked down in the description. However, let's get into Alright, so moving into that I highly recommend. This one is slightly harder but it is still definitely classified as one that is easy to start. What this business is called Now, if you haven't heard it is very similar to Amazon KDP, but instead of creating books, Now, if this is a business of experience with, I've for just about 10 years now. This is a business model that has proven time and time again to work. So let me quickly switch and show you a real example of this just to tie it all together. So if we come back over to Amazon, again, this is just going to be the largest Print on Demand marketplace out there, but there are several other you can sell on as well. With that being said, if funny fishing shirt just you can type in any type of t-shirt and you scroll down here, kind of funny graphic t-shirts. Now for all of these that so you'll notice this kind of black or it could be a different color t-shirt mockup that looked the same. So this one and this one, if you're going to see the same These are all being done So if we just click on just like Amazon KDP, the person who created this only and then Amazon created this listing. Whenever someone places an and ship it out to the customer and take care of all the Now, what's cool is as you're looking around Amazon just doing anytime you see this Amazon Merch on Demand, that means that this listing is being So just like Amazon KDP, so you get to determine how and then anyone can come in of shirt they want that printed and they can add it right to their cart and they can purchase it even Now a couple really important First, I would say that it is The only main difference is for Amazon Print on Demand, you have to actually apply to be a seller. So if you go over to Google, you type in Amazon Merch on Demand, it'll bring you to this page, and this is where you actually sign up to be a Print on Demand seller on Amazon. So once you see this sign up it goes through a very quick application and then you have to wait up to 14 days to hear back from Amazon to Now the bit of good news here is that while you're waiting there are a couple other big that you can also sell your designs on, and you can start on those right away. You don't have to apply to be a seller. Now those websites and how to apply to for Print on Demand business is going to be in a full print on demand tutorial linked down in the description as well. That is going to be totally free here on the YouTube channel. Now with that being said, I or obstacle people run into is how to actually create designs if you don't have graphic So this is something that of doing this, but there are where you can type in Let's create a fishing t-shirt. You give that a search and you have all of these that you can then start customizing and you can use those for Just to give you a you can come in here And the best part is you can come in here and change all the around on different buttons. This levels the playing field. And for those of us who know like this, you don't need to have any graphic design experience to create really good So guys, that is the second and again, if you want to learn how to do this one entirely step by step, there's a full print on tutorial link down in the description below. So guys, before we get into the I just wanna make a quick note to say that I hope you are enjoying this video. All of this information is coming from real hands-on experience. So I'm not just spewing out information that I found on Google. If you are enjoying this so far, please just give it a thumbs up. And again, just let me if you are enjoying it or if Alright, so that brings us into the third and final online business Now, this one is going to do on this list, however, it's going to have So with that being said, what this business model is Now, if you've seen to do affiliate marketing, that I'm about to share with you that not many other and this is the way that I can personally vouch for it working. So what affiliate whenever you buy something from a company, if they ever send you an email afterwards and they say, hey, if we'll give you $25 or we'll give you some kind of credit towards future purchases. That referral program that that company is offering is also known as their affiliate program. So whenever you hear affiliate program, just think of referral program. What most people don't to all these big websites out there or big companies that sell things, you can typically go all of their homepage and they that you can click on that Anyone out there in the world and they can join their affiliate And then they get their to any product that that company sells. So the way that this works is link to anyone out there, and they purchase from the company, you will then get a So with that being said, let's and let me explain the strategy that is absolutely working right now. So where the strategy starts So to give you an example of this, let's type in best fishing This is going to give us some with here and I can explain So this first one is just an ad, so you can kind of disregard that. That is sponsored. And then these couple results here, these are from bigger creators. It has 118,000 views As you keep scrolling down of these from smaller creators. This is just going to prove for people who are just So if you click on this this creator only has 729 subscribers. However, in the last four months, their video got 3000 views. Essentially all this is is a video of the creator recommending what are their top fishing And then when someone they come down here and guess what? These are all of the affiliate links or referral links to that they talked about in the video. Now, this is just an example for fishing poles on a small channel, but you can do this for any You can do affiliate marketing that has an affiliate program. Now, this was an example but here's another good They have 600,000 subscribers, but when you come down here, here's all of the affiliate that were talked about in this video. Once your eyes are kind of you are going to start to see this everywhere on the internet. Even big news channels, they do affiliate This is a business model Now, the last thing that I'll say here is that there's two kind of catches here. One is that you have to create a video. You don't have to actually be on camera. There's ways of doing it where forward and show what But that's probably going and reasons why people don't But it's also why you potential so quickly. Now, the second kind of Another thing that makes it that you have to actually have Now, that means that you to make the videos, or what I recommend doing is that you already own. The best way to do this is that you have purchased from Amazon. What most people don't know is that Amazon also has an affiliate program. This means that around your house, you probably have products that and create videos about, and you can put your to those products in the description. Now, there is so much that I can unpack about this business model, however, that is what I've put affiliate marketing tutorial So guys, there you have it. Those are three online businesses that I could personally vouch for with full step-by-step As always, I hope you If you did, please give it a thumbs up. If you have any questions let me know and I'd be Alright guys, that is it for this one. I will see you all in the next video.