- This is a Peruvian whistling vessel. You fill it with water and And as you do, it makes a whistling sound. Different vessels, make different sounds. For example, this one makes This one makes the sound of This makes the sound of a person, I guess. I don't know. I thought I had a good idea just from thinking about it. But there's one thing My theory is that as you from this compartment to this compartment. As this compartment fills through some kind of whistle But if air is free to leave then surely as you tip the thing, you should just get a but you don't. You get a warbling sound When I made the Assassin's teapot video the only way to see what was going on inside was to smash one of my teapots. And a commenter said, &quot;Why And I thought, &quot;Yeah, great, I'll just take it down Thanks for the advice.&quot; And then brilliantly, I got an email from a company called in California saying we If you ever want to see inside something without smashing it, give us a call. You might recognize from the Veritasium video It's a really good video, the link's in the card But when loads of you sent me as an idea for a video, I 'cause they're handmade and So I thought I'll send a see what they can do, but also, I mean, how cool would it be to get an x-ray of these things? So here you go. This is the first vessel I showed you. It's the one from the thumbnail. There's definitely on in the head. So I asked them to take a and they took images from all around it. So we can kind of pan around. How cool is that? I'm pretty sure that's a whistle, which seems to support my If you're able to view stereograms, then go cross eyed now to and you'll be able to see it in 3D. I didn't need any special It's just that each to the right of the previous frame. So putting the next frame side by side with the previous frame for the right eye and an And it's not just for fun, in 3D really helps to especially with an x-ray where by things in the foreground I made a video not long ago So if you want the details, the link is in the card But from everything I it's pretty clear to me It also explains the holes Like air couldn't flow through the whistle if it didn't have anywhere to escape to. I imagine those holes easier to hear as well. My goal of course, was to of the Peruvian whistling vessel. And these x-rays gave me just And here it is. Annoyingly, it doesn't work. It doesn't make a whistling and forth, it does whistle but that's really not the point. And actually I think the Like the chamber simply isn't big enough. You need to force air through But if your vessel is you just can't get the throughput. You can increase the volume of the vessel and therefore the throughput in the third dimension. But I really wanted to get something transparent that worked. And I had an idea, although I I thought maybe I can and still have it work. I thought about getting but the problem is it's because it's made by hand. And with water jet cutting I would get this perfect flat plane So, you know, maybe it through the head, but then it through the spout at So instead this has been cut by hand. And then I glue this and there you go, it works. How good is that? Interestingly, this cutaway and to begin with, I was but actually I think it of these vessels warble My original assumption was the whistle was really narrow, that receiving chamber could only fill with water very slowly. And so there would be an of air and water between the two chambers when the vessel is tipped. When the vessel is tipped of the receiving chamber forcing air towards the exchange pipe. This wouldn't happen if the to fill up more rapidly. Like if I drastically reduce air flow through the whistle in the 2D version by covering up the vents, then look, you do get an exchange of air and water between the two chambers. In other words, you get a glug. It's a bit like the glug that happens in the gluggle jug that I And of course when the glug happens that will affect the sound of the whistle, leading to a warbling sound. In that respect, it's very The only differences being there is a narrow channel in addition to the glugs. Whereas with the gluggle jug, there is no escape, only glugs. I can also initiate glugs with this cutaway vessel. But I have to give it a And that's because I have in the connecting pipe. And of course the narrower the pipe the more important surface tension is. And by cutting this thing in half I've reduced the cross I've made surface tension more significant in this cutaway version. So that might explain why you get warbles with the uncut vessel, but So for warbles to take place, through the whistle and you I'm surprised the air has such It might be to do with It seems that the working to a sports whistle, which I talked about in the whistles video. The incoming stream loops and interrupts itself. I'll go into a bit more detail of the airflow leads to a whistling sound in the whistling video. But the point is it's reasonable to think that it would add some resistance to the flow of air through the whistle. It may have a similar working principle to the Tesla valve, actually. That's easy to blow air and hard in the other. But anyway, in support of the hypothesis that a warbling sound through the whistle and we can consider other vessels. With this vessel there is no warbling. And look, the connecting This vessel warbles much more (bird-like whistling) And that makes sense in this vessel is wider and shorter than it is in this vessel. And actually in the x-rays you and see that actually they seem to have very similar geometry. So it's not a difference It's a difference in in the connecting pipe. The person whistling has a much wider connecting pipe. And yet doesn't warble, which seems to contradict my hypothesis, except that if you look that the whistle mechanism The air can escape so rapidly that the chambers aren't And in fact, if I restrict you get incredibly rapid glugs. (water gently glugging) Something else about the it's embedded in the handle which makes it appear different. But the mechanism is essentially the same, except the piped leading up to the whistle kind of curves upwards. Meaning that most of the air without really interacting much which is perhaps why this One final thing about this vessel that's particularly nice is It's only activated on the return tilt as water comes back into this And it only works if you cover this hole. So that air is forced to go of coming out of the hole. That's nice, isn't it? Thank you to the sponsor Jane Street is the perfect sponsor because they don't want anything from you. They don't want your money. They don't want you to They just really enjoy and solving problems. In other words, they're And they wanted to support my channel. To be a little more specific they enjoy figuring out how things work and solving problems If you enjoy doing those and you're looking for a job, then I strongly encourage you to get in touch with my friends at Jane Street. The link for that is in the description. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)