Most people like to personalize their phone. buried right at the bottom of the list. Is an phone that gave users the option to put a custom that this key new feature was placed in such an the 3315, a slightly enhanced version of the 3310, both picture messages and the custom screen saver. Putting it at the same level as the phone book, saver option at the bottom of the tones menu. I'll Because first I want to upgrade my 3310 Any 3310 can be upgraded to a 3315. To do this As well as upgrading, the cables I'm making can and even modify some of the functions of or even a very late model 3310, you might be 3330. This gives you animated screen savers Then there's the whole custom ROM scene of the and a willingness to risk hacking your phone, new fonts and even third-party custom games. I'm going to explore all these possibilities Using the secret code 'star hash four zeros In this case version 3.24. With the date week before the 3310 was officially released. and the best way to see the 3310 in its original To upgrade the firmware we need to connect area under the battery. The pads include a Building a classic Nokia interface is quite easy. I built one of these in a previous video for the on the 3310 with a few modifications. The hard the best ways is to find one of these serial port the pads. Then modify it to use the parallel port I have this. It's an adaptor that's used to These are easier to find. By searching for one I have here though doesn't go under The intention being powering the phone directly added challenge of needing to find a way to use the parts from this damaged 3315 to build a to see a damaged Nokia of this era. This one What I'll do is I'll set up the green mat. So despite this phone being broken. There's some So we do have a way to connect the battery. I've Including this RJ45 socket for connecting to cable apart and removing the 5110 connector. And connecting to different phones. These Nokia With a common IC, two diodes and two resistors. I did have to do lots of checking along the pin out diagrams. To make sure each wire was everything connected properly, I got out my I was pleased to see that it Well it actually works! With that done I everything stable and finished the jig. I also to complete the set. The parallel port is used need to use the serial port. I can now set up This is my favourite Windows 98 machine. The Phoenix build 1 mostly nutzo's work'. The software also runs on Windows 10 but you do need parallel everything set up and the firmware file chosen, in the phone. This process is often just called on the phone starts the process. The phone screen chip is erased. Which takes about 10 seconds. Once complete, press the power button again To upgrade to the 3315 we need to first upgrade firmware 5.47. To activate the 3315 functions, Or switching to a serial cable, which is easy select the 3310-3315 conversion option. This flips all the 3315 options. To check this has until you find the Picture Editor function is try out some of the custom ROMs that people have to see some of these custom ROMs. So I'm going to All colour coded. There we go, it's OK parallel port is connected reconnect phone, and start flashing. OK let's power up and see what we've got here. It's got a nice startup animation there. Wow! that's pretty cool. I've got a new font. OK this looks like a pretty cool ROM. Wow! this is really amazing. There's some crazy animations. This is some heavy customization. Even the sub menus all have pictures as well. As I go through these firmwares, I'm increasingly was done. Looking back at all the graphics I've included the file names of each firmware credited for their hard work. Many of the the Nokia modding scene was big there, and some of these firmwares have third-party In a previous Nokia video I showed how to There are some games here I don't So it's a nice Game &amp; Watch style game, and it's not one of the ones I've Let's see what else there is, Puzzle, What's Rotator, huh I'm not sure The problem here is these are already installed. then it wouldn't be possible to install these in own ultimate Nokia firmware. Until then I need Wow! that was awesome. Not every firmware flash seems to work. Some from the boot code indicating there is some I will try switching to the serial cable full factory reset all settings. Switching over to to reset all settings and fix checksums, can this can also reset the startup graphics, and any Even with resetting some of these firmwares have example, the main font seems to be missing. I'm glad I did because this one has and includes some of my favourite Pills is a Dr. Mario clone. Not sure how Nintendo But it is addictive, so I guess there's that. Stones is the first to get five stones in a row many games in this one. This is the kind of thing end up spending hours flashing dozens of ROMs and realizing that I still have lots to learn about Later after taking a break, I came back to have things I avoided earlier was ringtones. Because quite shrill and not the most pleasant to listen ringtones included in many of these ROMs, I Since this phone can't seem one more upgrade. This time I need to swap the The board from this 3315 is Now I'm going to swap the While it looks identical to the 3310 board, has a four megabyte flash memory chip. Instead of The high-end Nokia 3330 requires a four With this installed I can now do Being double the size means the flashing 10 minutes later I now have a 3330. One of the WAP or W.A.P. was a way for these early phones I don't have a 2G tower near me to demonstrate a good video on the 3330 that's worth watching. and he even built his own WAP compatible is an official Nokia game called Bumper. This is my first time playing This is the sort of game that works well The final feature that I'm looking These were usually downloaded But another way to add animated screen savers LogoManager. LogoManager is also an easy way to the built-in Picture Editor. Which by the And that screen saver option in the 3330? Well I think the reason the screensaver option was put phones were built by large network equipment Motorola. We can look at the way new functions SMS text messaging was first implemented in the for networks to send messages to their customers. Some handsets such as the Ericsson GH337 didn't Only to receive them. Phones were designed with The Nokia 5110 and 6110 had the option as a graphic. The idea that you might want considered. Even for a company whose tagline was software such as LogoManager first appeared. replace the network's corporate logo and choose When the Nokia 3310 arrived, overriding network that Nokia decided to add the screen saver personalize their own phone. But where was the You would think that the settings menu would of the way phones were designed more for network Industry habits die hard. But the new changes had the Nokia 3210, the Tones menu had been I think this menu represented Nokia's new and Connecting People. This is the opposite of key new graphics feature of the 3310 ended I really enjoy making these videos. It means I always look forward to starting the next one meantime there's plenty more here on this channel If I have something wrong then definitely let me