Your 3D printer can print way than you probably realize, and a whole bunch of 3D print ideas. So you've got a 3D printer, and if you're is, okay, what should I print now? For sure, you'll go through your printer a kilo of tchotchkes and trinkets that printer or your 3D printing workflow. But, then what? Well, then you'll probably go through your same silly stuff we've all printed before. Articulated octopuses, fidget Guilty as charged. But eventually one of Either you'll get sick of printing stuff plastic crap kicking around your house. What to do? Well, fortunately in this video I'm absolute favorite, most useful 3D prints. Yes. Actual functional 3D prints that solve and stick around to the end because I the things that you can actually print. Trash cans. What's more useful than trash, right? Well, let's start the list off with Trash cans. Yes, trash cans. I don't know why, but where I live, can can cost as much as $75 plus But, all the decent looking like three or five liters max. And I don't know about you, but I hate And with things like failed prints or more trash cans just don't work in my house. Fortunately, thanks to this clever this was no longer an issue. Don't get me wrong, the trash can So all I did was take the lid that Throw in a boolean modifier A simple ring in the middle to You have the most romantic gift a person Now, in case you're wondering about then you're going to need a bigger CR-10 V3, or the Anycubic Kobra Max. But to be completely honest, I the CR-10 for my office trash can, way too big. Some quick math and flashbacks to the me that on the Prusa MK3S+ with its 21 could print a short-end chunky trash of volume, which is twice that of most Or you could print the design as is. I will publish the link in the up with a four liter trash can that hours on vase mode, plus however long Oh, and by the way, on the topic throw this in because I love it. When we designed our kitchen, the that makes the drawers, only offer those And that unfortunately, this meant space in between our trash cans and F that noise! I whipped up Blender, mostly because and I designed a hanging compost bin two bins, but it also closes to keep And as a bonus, it helps hold for some reason love to float up we tried to open the drawer. So all in all, a really, And honestly, tell me you've seen a cooler I'll wait. Shelf Supports. When designing my custom-made studio shrine to 3D printing and Bitcoin, I which had a more masculine design than supports out there at the hardware store. Fortunately, I found these awesome condruttoma on Thingiverse, which gold in a beautiful and unique way. And to be honest, the interior I like them a lot and it's my money. And don't worry if there are actually hundreds of models on Many of which are optimized for strength how much weight they're designed to hold. Signage. Another cool way to make use of I'll be honest with you, I actually vinyl machines, and so making vinyl and yet I still really prefer making so the Cricut machine is just in a The end result is just so much more a vinyl sticker on something, though I itself and then put vinyl on it. I've custom-designed signs warning our yard, nifty promotional business trade-show booths, signs to subtly, subscribing to my YouTube channel if you wanna enjoy more free content little Wifi QR code signs so I don't every time someone comes over. You can use the instructions and Printables though, I found that you information on a site called QRCode2STL and it will generate STLs with You can even put an indentation on don't have to take out their phone, a QR code like freaking caveman. The sky is the limit as to what kind of for anything that's going to go outside, use either ASA filament, or at least Phone cases. Let's take a break from the minute and talk about phone cases. Have you ever actually stopped to is to pay $49 for a simple piece That's like two or three rolls the basic cases are well, basic. Instead, you can actually print your PLA, and while you probably would janky looking with just a little bit of can actually look really, really nice. I like to print them with zero top and patterns of infill in my slicer to create available for the first month or two are the authorized manufacturers or the OEM. Oh, and one other cool benefit of customize them for your own needs. My phone, for example, wouldn't charge case and then my popsocket on top of it. So I just cut out a hole in my slicer modifier, stuck the popsocket directly popsocket not only sticks better to finally works without having to remove Custom cable channels. Here's a cool one that I You know how we all have all other annoying and ugly stuff just Well, it's time to hide your shame. Sure, you can buy these cable channels at such as straight lines on white walls, but if you want to have a more challenging hose that curves or a water pipe that visible place, then this is where Plus, unlike those plain, ugly a bajillion different color filaments most with your wall, tiles or background. Now, this was another one of the Hardware. Alright. Let's now talk about hardware. One of my favorite things about 3D (whoa, you like that SAT word there?) Where I live, hardware stores open up again 'till Sunday, which and this inevitably means that every Saturday looking for fun DIY projects, that is not available when I need it. This has run the gamut from all different bolts and material types, to flexible leaky pipes or kitchen stuff like even the occasional nuts or bolts something particularly strong. You'd honestly be really surprised mounts, and miscellaneous hardware And while I'm not going to advocate instead of actual real ones, you some of the stuff that would normally Here's a fun example actually, just to When I was building the fence spacers to go between the planks. Now the magnetic ones that are the fence rails were not only twice but they also cost about $0.80 each. And considering I needed around be a really serious expense, like So instead, I bought a few roles printed them at home, saving myself Tools. Oh man. I could literally do an entire and tool accessories that I've 3D dollars I've saved by doing it. From clamps, to jigs, to clamping measure my tools, and much, much more. But, none of those are likely the ol' SO, so let's do this. If you'd like to see me do an 3D printed tools, then drop me Tripods and articulating arms. Here's the scenario. You've got stuff. You want that stuff to stand in This could be mounting your phone or your work area or filming background, your desk, your printer, or whatever. Once again, you can print I'm not gonna lie, I did not get Pi articulating arm system. I printed too complicated, too many bolts couldn't withstand the torsion But there are, however, plenty of boom arm type design by ham that I also really enjoy this 3D printed tripod it's actually a lot better than the mini With a little creativity Here, the sky limited just to my fellow video creators. You can create tripods to prop Articulating arms to hold things work pieces, and so much more. Lights and light housings. While we're on the topic of lights and light housings. Now, personally, I haven't taken 3D printed light housing just yet. But that doesn't mean that I 3D printed light solutions. I have 3D printed deflectors for the light housings to hide LED strip lights, to hold high powered LED panels I repurpose for my printer cabinet, diffusers for some of the ugly kitchen and even a replacement diffuser for that, uh, got broken because someone I've even rescued some of my overpriced installation from the trash can by 3D printing for lighting purposes way to showcase the possibilities Just make sure that you print with PETG, you get that diffusion effect without Heavy duty mechanical tools. Some of you have probably seen my previous haven't, then make sure to check it out. This project definitely expanded my 3D printing and really got me thinking. What other highly mechanical I think a lot of times we write off enough, precise enough, or polished enough But if that project proved I'm using the jib right now, it I'm always looking for ideas for to level up my skills and solve So if you have some heavy duty love to share or recommend, please I would love to print them as well. Planters. Big, big planters. I'm going to assume that you've already especially because Printables did a showcase some of the best designs. But what always blows my mind is to the logical extreme like I have. Sure. Tiny little planter pots desk and all that is cool. But like I mentioned before, even a Some of these designs turned out But for the style of my home, success comes from just whipping up own in either Blender or OnShape. Here again, what's cool about this different styles and materials and table, a piece of furniture, and so on. One tip on printing planters from my to waste tons of filament by printing what a certain planter would look I've actually had tons of success, simply reinforcement ring somewhere inside. Sure, right. Suppose I could run into trouble and expand, but for now, even tightly haven't phased any of my planters. Furniture modifications and upgrades. When I was designing this workspace, my laptop off of the table so that it working standing, or sitting down. And because I also love to do maker parts at my workstation, I wanted to the sides of this shelf and have as keyboard, trackpad, and other junk Now, I went about designing some I made them out of plastic rather of holes for light to pass through. And I then reached out to a local a large format 3D printer, and they So for $549 at that time, I printed those bad boys myself. Now while they didn't come out perfect, and had a ton of difficulty with warping, And it's also lighter weight than a wooden I can easily lift the entire thing off my Now, this is just one idea for how You could also modify your existing chair to help it slide under my desk. You could print some custom-designed, or bed to protect your floors, and of nice mounting solutions for wires and Hide that shame people. The sky is the limit and all you house at your furniture and ask Drawers. One of the things I love about things that either don't exist or This includes literally hundreds, maybe types of small drawers to suit every need. From under desk drawers to stand-alone and of course gridfinity drawers. Shout out to my gridfinity peeps. As I mentioned before, I was kind of the off-the-shelf drawer manufacturer with the weight of heavy metal brackets the heat of my laptop is already Fortunately, I discovered these simple and then remixed them to max out the simple drawers for miscellaneous As you can see, I had a failed print honestly, printing them with zero top probably not the best idea for strength. But they continue to serve me well, have been tempted to add in some otherwise super disorganized drawers. Which brings me to entire Yes, of course. You already know that 3D printing Honestly, that's probably the number three printer upgrades and useless tchotchkes. But did you know that you can actually For those of you who've seen my previous Gridfinity system, this won't come and those of you who haven't, well But I just wanna point out that it's really not for everything. It wouldn't make sense, for bins for bigger things like kitchen Which is why I wanted to point completely different systems out Personally, I really enjoyed putting drawer using this system by wbu42. It includes all sorts of different and pretty much everything that you organization system with a minimum of To be honest, this one took me a long I compare it to how I used to organize IKEA bins, it's so much better. I did try, by the way, to organize system, but I ended up getting really bin full of spare parts that maybe I some other unsuspecting drawer. Oh, and 3D printing isn't lightweight stuff either. I'm sure many of you have seen RepKord's storing your filament on the wall. Now, personally, I don't really have all of my rolls at filament, but I'd love to use if I had more space. So there you have it. My long list of unexpected I'd love to hear in the comments shared in this video that you never And while you're at it, I'd love moment to like, share and subscribe. This is a brand new channel crowded and competitive landscape. And as of right now, literally 99% of you much less have notifications turned. As always, I hope you've really to making many, many more videos Amen.