If you're interested in the Presenting To The link to my store is in the description below. Hello. Doctor Bernard here. I recently made a 12 energy drinks in 10 minutes. I remember no one knew that he chugged all those energy The pancreatitis was pretty straightforward to the back, with nausea and vomiting, and just the vast majority of acute pancreatitis comes from lotta times in the setting of diabetes. although he was pre diabetic. There's not that drinks all the time to give us the same data it comes to pancreatitis. But it does appear drink consumption and pancreatitis, When the patient in the Chubbyemu video came 10 years earlier from that point, where I while I was making the Chubbyemu video, it presented to the emergency room, when energy Chubbyemu back then, you were witness to this When I was 16, I was working my first job the chef paid me less than minimum wage. And his culinary person. You know you work your way in between all the way up to line cook and they only opened on the weekends. The place sat bucks per person for a 5 course meal, and this But restaurant working culture today, is probably the actual line cooks were like 20 something funny if they challenged me. "Bernard, tonight's gonna be a really busy night, it's gonna be a fire hazard in the dining hazard for you washing dishes. We need we'll give you 25 bucks for your trouble, you And, being 16, thinking it was funny. I did it. neck. And I almost just throw up in the sink every squeeze as hard as I could so I wouldn't just was funny. Apparently the chef got pissed when he pale gray, he almost sent me home. He did a load for me, I was in a world of hurt. I did have maybe that night, I had acute pancreatitis from so who knows. I didn't sleep that night either, Basically, after that night, I didn't touch was a short stint where I had like a can a day but I stopped that pretty quick, actually, because back all the restaurant memories, and I just Now fast forward to 2017. I had been on In the beginning of that year, I did a fat loss I take personal videos where I talk about daily at my own records, I describe how I ate at that What I didn't realize was happening at the time, is that the amount I was eating gradually became stop at the 40 pounds weight loss, I kept going. were made that year. I stopped doing cardio, I just didn't want to. It wasn't even really And this really became a problem on I had a meeting at the National Institutes of who had flown in the day before who was going to no matter what. I remember I had to get up at I went to bed early. But no matter what I did, I I turned on the fan because I thought my legs because I thought the side I was sleeping on was was sweating so I went and took a cold shower shivering made my body even warmer. I opened up rolled around and my eyes were wide open. Nothing watched the sun rise. My mind was mush for that The problem is, this wasn't a one off. The I had to be on call and do overnights a lot at one kind of nap or something to just cover for that on October 13. And the 14th. And the 15th. heart felt like it was just flapping in my chest, I think what finally put me to sleep, even if a few pieces of chicken and then took a nap more than a year. Originally I thought it was had never seen in the 2 years prior on YouTube. and there was this constant buzzing at the back of I remember some time that fall in 2017, I went to couldn't take it anymore. I talked to the fellow and we were trying to hypothesize what the I've made fun of suggesting cognitive behavioral And that comes from this encounter with the suggested. In fact, he was convinced that Now this is where I become the problem nothing about my behavior had changed. The been the same for about 5 years. I'll be honest, in my entire that level of insomnia. And when you have when night falls. Because you know you're going you won't be able to fall asleep. And the dread of and you will see the sun rise in the same drains you in a way that I never want And throughout all this frustration and dread and then not being able to function I finally just cracked. I remember going pack of monster energy drink. And I thought, you It's not like im gonna sleep anyways, so might That way at least I can sit up at my computer to I remember drinking 2 of those cans. And lo But, what I did do, was fall asleep in the a little nap. It was full on like 6 hours, I couldn't remember that I had fallen asleep so actually slept decently since October 11th 2017. time again, I had another can of Monster because I Now, here's the part that confused me. The Walmart out of the sugar free monsters, so I just stopped Within a couple of weeks, my insomnia came I started drinking them again, and I could sleep energy drinks are what college kids use You're wired when you drink them, that's the shouldn't be happening, but it was Until, I looked at the nutrition facts, B vitamins are something you can become deficient and more scarce, especially in animal proteins, because at least in the past, they needed to One of the big reasons why I was able to slim my protein intake. I realized I miscalculated so I swung the pendulum the other way often seen on these energy drinks that B for you. That's a weird marketing tactic, which are for cell energy, but you're not going Severe B12 deficiency does cause neurologic degeneration. This includes things like psychosis these on Chubbyemu. I've seen these before with was happening to me. At the time I was figuring I did have really low methylmalonic acid and deficiency. Direct vitamin B12 levels you can do false positives and individual variability, So there it is. I had developed a vitamin B12 restrictions in 2017. From those restrictions, B12, and humans don't make B12 on their I started drinking energy drinks at night, and accidentally cured my own insomnia that and having the clinical know how and experience it is happening to you. If you don't have a the way that I did at least, this worked supplement my B12 with a multivitamin, and If you want more of an explainer on vitamin B12, the boy who ate only chips and French fries for 10 links in the description below. Thanks for