Who sleeps where? Me and others. We've never had this I feel like Don Quijote, This is Alexandra Oxacelay looks after people I hear a lot of people say they feel How is that possible? What -- people sleeping outside Alexandra has joined the fight -- and for people like Serge who can't I'm angry with the government, They do a - like spending 210 But... where Luxembourg: and home to countless along with the European In the Grand Duchy, every 1 In the shadows of the fancy lies the home of Alexandra met the two and is determined Stephan and Ferenc live under Chili and Pitti. They've been here Temperatures are expected But that doesn't seem I have a lamp... For reading They say Luxembourg You get a health insurance card... And to other doctors too. No problem. Ferenc tells us how he lost his -- and that he was given In Hungary: this I don't care where I live -- whether I have no family. Hungary is Victor Orban -- is a horrible man! There's good money here. What's 'heaven' in Alexandra has spent the past 25 like Stephan Homelessness What's also new are -- the organized begging. I'll sometimes get a call from a and take in a homeless They say... 'it hurts our image, But that's unbelievable! It 'Come and clean It still feels like people are trying Alexandra runs a charity association or &quot;voice of It's an extremely Outside, dozens of people in In the office, Alexandra and her for their end-of-year -- with hundreds of The guest of honor has just The head of state, Grand It's noon, and a arrive at Alexandra's from the area around Most of the people in need But they're also joined by A retired nurse, Massard Alberti is extremely worried ...Even if you have it's getting harder Everything's really expensive. This is why Alexandra to set up a clothing Everything's free. We get our clothes We also created this Alexandra's team is find a sweater, Last summer, Jose left his home -- with big hopes... I wanted to work here, but And what kind of Construction. But there's Jose knows he'd be doing far worse He can't afford -- and is currently located above a center Luxembourg is a rich country, Things are going downhill And if you don't have you get practically Worst case: I'll go When the construction people like Jose Now -- like many others -- Poverty in Luxembourg is At the same time: the country In 2022 Luxembourgers earned In Germany the figure was Yannick Wirtz is a in a similar He's out of work. To qualify for welfare, It's getting difficult to There are more and And they get everything Luxembourgers are left There are a lot of French because they don't And they get jobs in places We're basically left out in the cold, They take care of the foreigners Luxembourgers have We can look as much as we Yannick is angry about increasing I'm the kind of person I don't want to So... if I'm offered a job as a then I'll do it. Even if I don't have any experience. Yannick isn't the only Many people on the It's really time the government and provided full You have all these immigrants And to be Our government doesn't give They don't really Since becoming Yannick -- like the two has been making his way to Alexandra's where he can get a And one floor up in ...the Voice of the Street's are working on their next designed to give people like At first I thought: how am I But I got down to -- at first at home The editor was And then they sat me down and I started The street paper From conservative politicians to renewable Serge himself mainly writes -- with tips from It's a niche that traditional We're in touch with which we learn And we report in a language -- with their That's our strength. We Serge and his colleague Marylene They know from personal to be poor in the Grand It is tough when you People who do have money But if you don't, It's not as if there's one group You have the rich and the The two distribute the street here in the wealthy old-town -- like the Ministry Stemm vun der Strooss From Serge and there's something rotten They want the government to take In 2022, 19.4% faced poverty or Serge believes the most pressing He himself has chronic and is no longer -- and he is also suffering from I was married And when we got divorced, I The law here says that Because he is someone known as a "Revi" it's been difficult for The conversation But when said where I the mood suddenly Because &quot;Revis&quot; are considered At the same time: Serge's neighborhood -- and... increasingly They want to turn this There are apartments being built where for a 35-square-meter two-room This tiny room As you can see: That there is what I survive His 18-year-old son sleeps And this shared single-room I'm paying 770 euros for 20 square It's a good thing I get along with my Otherwise, it'd just be bachelors' I'm mad at the government, They do a - like spending 210 But... where There are so many vacant I've registered for apartments all And the private market For Alexandra, the housing that could divide Luxembourg but she's determined For years, sociologists have been -- a situation that politicians says Antoine Paccoud, an expert He says the main problem is an extreme -- and related real There is enough -- except it's owned by a Our studies show that own 50% of the Ultimately, there are who've inherited these And they have no The dynamic economic that their properties will increase ...Over the last 8 years, property And rents by 41%. Recently, the government has started It's a policy change that's come So, at the moment only 2% of the housing in the So this is extremely low especially for neighboring been investing in this kind of Luxemburg is starting extremely So ideally we should get He wants to see Yannick and Jose spared the Patrick Clement can also He spent five - an apartment was a But Patrick He pays a relatively modest 580 including a kitchen, A subsidized flat provided I couldn't cope with the and got involved But luckily I got help from Alexandra They said: and it's not too late to Otherwise, you'll never Patrick's when his ex-girlfriend This was followed by alcohol, I was an addict -- which I was deep into drugs, I went through a lot And then there was this place 'You're in good hands and Patrick's been -- and now spends his afternoons Without them, I'd Or rather: I wouldn't be here. Voice of the Street -- and has a working arrangement We pick up fruit and vegetables And once we've checked it, we Every day, Michel Conrardydrives to It's located in the of the capital's He collects food right before it I'm retired and used to be in charge I care about sustainability We can't allow food It's better to donate When I was a I always told Alexandra that when That's how I ended up at They need volunteers, and this is The food-recycling which ensures the was introduced Voice of the Street is ...but donations A group of managers from a big retail Focus, people! ...These visitors have donated -- and are thinking about 14 tons of food a 14 tons that don't get thrown away They make 800 meals The kitchens are staffed by A lot of them are refugees In Iraq is war... ISIS, Daesh. From the And direct I work Here they learn the skills that will One storey above, Alexandra They'll never succeed with that! The government has ...If it's banned, people will It's just shifting the We'll still see the people either But what they're 'We don't want poor people in the I feel like Don Quijote, I've gotten used to this -- but we've never had We need funding to The next day Alexandra has a arriving for the Voice of the The Grand Duke The head of state, face to face living in poverty -- for Alexandra: it's the most important 400 people in need have gathered Didier and other volunteers are on For me personally: we don't and don't talk Sure, we have a -- but there aren't enough. Grand Duke Henri takes -- right across ...He's eager to tell the monarch Property prices used to be lower. Yes, the housing Foreigners get more I don't think that's right I also said I hope things change here, ...Yannick is angrier at -- even though it's that hasn't done anything between the The minister of social security What does she have to say It's economics -- the law It doesn't always so you need initiatives And have they been Alexandra says that imposing a instead of fighting poverty -- here Of course Luxembourg can't eliminate But I'm not a politician. I try to And if we Luxembourgers aren't then which