You got a BFF, I wanna see that girl It's all women invited Hairdos and nails, that Louis, Chanel All up in the party Presidents in my wallet - (chuckles) So glad you Hey, what's wrong? - Oh, nothing! Nothing is wrong! I'm just chilling with the guac from my chip hat. - Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to &quot;Binging with Babish,&quot; where this week we're taking a look at the tortilla sombrero For the record, I had a between this and the nacho but I preferred the use of the hat's rim as the vessel for dipping substances. Speaking of which, first up Into the bowl of a stand mixer we are combining 10 ounces each masa harina and all-purpose flour along with 2 tablespoons of kosher salt. A tiny whisking until homogenous. And then I've got 5 ounces of lard, cubed, which I'm gonna scatter and incorporate by virtue of the stand mixer's paddle attachment, about three minutes on low speed until the mixture resembles wet sand. And then I'm gonna start slowly anywhere from 8 to 12 ounces. Just add a little bit at a time. You don't want the dough to but you don't want it wet either. What we're ultimately looking for is a freshly-popped-can-of-Play-Doh every-so-slightly crumbly, Once we've got that we're gonna knead it by hand for a couple minutes on the countertop, just until it comes together And then we're gonna wrap it tightly in plastic wrap, and fridge for at least one hour. This is gonna allow the dough to relax and make it even more easy to roll... Whoop, that wasn't a great toss. And you wanna try that again? Perfect. Once fully refrigerated, we're going to subdivide the dough and try to help develop its gluten. There are three sort-of so I'm gonna divide it into Close enough. And then on a lightly floured work surface I'm going to laminate which basically means I'm just gonna roll 'em out into a long strip, fold it in thirds, rotate 90 degrees, and repeat the process. Gluten is normally something we'd want to avoid when making chips, but we need one singular not only to hold its own guacamole but to be worn as a fashion accessory. So go ahead and laminate each wrap in plastic wrap, and then it's time to take which, as you can see, it's both of which I'm going with nonstick spray. And then we're gonna roll of the sombrero in three separate pieces, starting with the sort-of dome thing in the center of the hat. I apologize in advance in sombrero architecture. We're taking one of the three and rolling it out as thin cutting it into a shape as closely resembling wrapping it up around a rolling pin, and then using our rolling pin to drape it over our greasy bowl. And then comes the First we have to cut some And then once the bowl has we have to press it down a job made much easier by I found it in a drawer and it turns out to be absolutely perfect for rolling and forming The next piece is the base of our brim, which will eventually serve Once again, rolling this Cutting out a circle in the center, which, once we wrap it up once will, eh, hopefully fit like a glove around the dome of the hat... Nice. And now we must both press into the bottom of the mold, trimming the edges and merging it with the bottom of the central dome, trying to make it as flat while repairing any rips. Next and last is the rim of the sombrero. Now, this is a 10-inch cake pan, which means a circumference which means two strips 15.71 inches long and about an inch and a half high. Of course, I did my math wrong somewhere and I ended up having to but either way, lay down the strips, press them flush against and press them down in the corner to merge with the base of the rim. And there you have it. You have at least formed But now it must be dried out in a 300-degree Fahrenheit convection oven for one to one and a half hours. It should shrink and And once you've let it cool you can pull it out of the stand in awe of yourself that you didn't somehow and let it cool on a wire Again, this is gonna help dry or at least our closest You see, I do not have a thing big enough to deep fry this in, so I'm gonna treat it heating a whole bunch of oil and very gently and very cautiously, and with the full weight of the knowledge of what I am doing, ladle it over every facet Boy, I sure do get to say some Then once again, very carefully, we're gonna dump out any excess Once again you should that you've made it this far before draining on some paper towels, generously salting with kosher salt while it's still warm so that it adheres, and allowing to cool during which time we We're going to need a of guacamole for this hat, so I have here four that I'm going to cut in And then I'm going to score their flesh with a butter knife for easier mashin'. Once you have cut a crosshatch you can scoop it out with a spoon, rinsing and repeating with Then, first and foremost, we're gonna hit these I'm using three limes, which is both gonna add and prevent the avocados I'm also gonna add one whole small, finely-chopped red onion; one whole small, finely-chopped jalapeno, ribs and seeds removed; and three whole large, also a little shake, or of ground cumin; and a whole bunch of finely-chopped green vegetal substance It's definitely not parsley so that I can eat this and enjoy it. I would not go to those kinds And of course we have to add and a few big twists of before realizing that our and that we're gonna have to upgrade. And mashing together with a fork until the desired consistency is achieved. I personally like guacamole so I have targets to aim for. And with that, it's of our tortilla chip hat. Make sure it's evenly distributed, both for aesthetics and for the because what good is a if you can't actually wear it? And this one is definitely a size and a half too small for me, but it still does the job. It might not be perfect, but is my very first To wit, let's see how it tastes. And you might think of as the fun, hands-free way to And while it tastes surprisingly good, it's actually dastardly You have no idea what's going on up there. You're just sort of diving blindly, hoping that the hat doesn't and that you'll find guacamole That being said, it's eating chips and guac in a long time. I don't really know how you would ever feasibly eat the center of It's a Cinco de Mayo miracle and I just could not be happier with it. That being said, I know is gonna be even more excited than I am. Yo, Weissman! How you doin'? - Babi's calling me in the What's up, man? (Babish singing angelically) (laughing) Yo! Oh my god! It's like a bowler hat! He's so cute! - Yeah, it's like a porkpie hat. - It's the bowler sombrero! - It worked out really well. The chip is a little thick, and try to tempt you so we can do another collab, now that the world's - Dude, you know I'm already there, but if there's no then I don't know, man. I don't know. That's like I've fantasized about that - No, dude. Thank you I'm sorry I don't have this but I'll have one waiting for you. Come to New York. I'll come to Austin. - I'll be there. Thank you, Babish. I love you. (upbeat music)