Translator: Anders Bjork I have the best job in the world. I'm a doctor. No! Believe me that's not why. I'm an obesity doctor. I have the honor of working subject to the last widely These people have suffered a lot shame, guilt, blame The attitude that many take, is that these people If they could just control themselves, and they are not motivated to change. Please let me tell you The blame, if we've got has been with our advice. And it's time we change that. Obesity is a disease, it's not something It's a hormonal disease, And one of the main ones Most obese individuals So, what does that mean exactly, Well, insulin resistance is essentially Insulin's job is to drive glucose, into the cells where it can be used. In a nutshell, when someone they are having trouble into those cells. And it just can't hang out or we would all have a diabetic crisis So, when someone is resistant to insulin, the body's response to this And insulin levels will rise and rise, and for a while, years even, and blood sugar levels can remain normal. However, usually it can't keep up forever, and even those elevated levels of insulin are not enough to keep blood sugar So it starts to rise. That's diabetes. It probably won't surprise you to hear that most of my patients And if you are sitting there thinking, you actually might want to think again, because almost 50% of adult Americans That is almost 120 million of us. But that's hardly everyone Because as I was saying, people have elevated insulin levels for years, even decades, before the diagnosis Plus it's been shown that 16-25% are also insulin resistant. So, in case you're keeping track, So, the trouble If it goes up, we are at great risk But also, insulin makes us hungry, and the food we eat Insulin is our fat storage hormone. So we can start to see for diseases like obesity But what if we traced this problem and we just didn't have that insulin needed to deal with? Let's take a look at how that could be. Everything you eat is either a carbohydrate, and they all have very different effect as you can see on the graph. So when we eat carbohydrates, our insulin and glucose And with proteins it looks a lot better. But take a look at what happens Essentially nothing, a flat line. And, this is going to wind up So, now I want to translate into a real-world situation. I want you to go back and think about the last time you ate We all know there's rules And the first rule is: Because the stop signal doesn't get sent until you are literally Rule number two is: Why? Well, because the rice in that meal which triggered hunger, So, if you are insulin and your insulin levels you really are hungrier all the time. And we have this setup: Eat carbs, your glucose goes up, and you have hunger and fat storage. So, how do we recommend because it seems like that would be Let's focus just on type 2 diabetes, because the general recommendations to consume 40 to 65 grams plus more at snacks. Trust me on this, that's a lot of carbs. And remember what's going to happen blood sugar and insulin, when we eat them? Yes, we are essentially recommending that they eat exactly Sound crazy? It really, really is. Because, at its root, diabetes We can't get the blood sugar and that causes a problem But the long-term consequences And insulin resistance is essentially So why, oh why, do we want to continue The American Diabetes specifically state that there is to recommend But those guidelines go right on Our carbohydrate intake is the single, and therefore need for medication. These guidelines then go on to say: Hey look, if you are taking you actually have to eat carbs, Okay, so let's take a look at the vicious cycle So it's: Eat carbs so you have then you have to eat more carbs so you avoid the side-effect and around and around we go. Even worse is that nowhere is the goal of reversing type 2 diabetes. This needs to be changed, because type 2 diabetes can be reversed, especially if we start early. Not only do we need but we have to start giving them Consider carbs. First, here's a shocker for you: Seriously! Our minimum daily requirement We have essential amino acids, essential fatty acids, but, nope, no essential carb. A nutrient is essential if we have to have it to function, We make glucose, it's called gluconeogenesis. So, we don't need them, the overconsumption of them yet we are continuing to consume close to, if not more than, half of their total energy intake It doesn't make sense. Let's talk about what does. Cutting carbs, a lot. Yes, in my clinic we teach patients to eat with carbs not the majority. So, how does that work? Well, when our patients their glucose goes down, So those insulin levels drop, and fast. And this is very important, because a study looking at our National Health better known as NHANES, showed that the single, for coronary artery disease is insulin resistance. It is responsible Low-carb intervention works so fast that we can literally pull people off in days to weeks. One of my favorite stories A young gal, but who had an almost came in when a physician from another and she'd probably get used to it. Her diabetes was way out of control. This despite the fact that she including almost 300 units of insulin, that was being injected into her All of this, remember, So we put her on a low-carb diet, She lost weight, yes, Her blood sugar levels This on, get this, no diabetes medication. Gone was the 300 units of insulin, no more insulin pump, no more pricking her finger gone, all of it, no more diabetes. One of the greatest joys of my job that they no longer have diabetes, and we ceremoniously take it off So, are they cured, is this a miracle? We'll leave that grandstanding Cured would imply that it can't come back. And if they start eating So no not cured, but they don't have It's resolved, and it can stay that way So, what does this look like then? Well, first, let me tell you Low-carb is not zero carb, These are common criticism because they are not true. Next, if we take the carbs out, Because, remember, if one goes down, one has to go up. My patients eat fat, and a lot of it. &quot;What!?&quot; you say. What's going Well, let me tell you, you're because fat tastes great, (Applause) (Laughter) But, remember, fat that's going to keep our glucose - and that is so important. So, I want you to now hear These rules, you have to remember, if you are one of the tens who have trouble with insulin levels. Rule number one: If it says light, low fat because they took the fat out, Rule number two: Eat food. The most important rule Real food does not come in a box, and no-one should have to tell you You should know that when you look at it. Don't eat anything you don't like. And eat when you're hungry; no matter what the clock says. And number five is a simple way No GPS: no grains, That last one is a biggie, Na, no grains. But we have to have them. Nope, they're a carb. But whole grains are so good for us. Well, first of all, there are actually that are truly whole grain Most foods that purport themselves are highly processed Or they're coming usually both of these things. So if you are one of the truly you can eat real, whole grain. But if you're in the enormous slice it's making things worse. So what if you are one Can you still eat this way? Yes! I am a great example. Over a year ago I decided as low as I recommend Now, it's not mandatory for my health I'm not insulin resistant, No! That's just the thing. Unless you have then cutting carbs even if it's not necessary. I want to show you a couple of pictures So, this is a common breakfast So does it look like I didn't because this muffin I bake all the time still. I just use non-grain-based flours: They make delicious things. And this is a typical dinner in my house That would be the sauteed mushrooms. No, my patients and I eat delightful food But what about the research on this? I mean is this just anecdotal No! There are dozens of looking at low-carb intervention for things like diabetes, They're consistent. It works! There are even a large number that low-carb nutrition which is making it really exciting We just finished a study in our clinic. And what we did is, we took 50 type 2 diabetic patients that were treated with and we compared them to 50 patients who were treated with the ADA guidelines. And after six months, not only did we find for the low-carb group, but, and let's face it, this is important, Our analysis showed that our patients just on the diabetes meds Just think how fast that adds up. We are in a diabetes epidemic now that we are spending So, I want to show you a slide now that demonstrates where So this is looking in the two groups after six months. And what we can see is that the low-carb group by almost 500 units a day. Whereas in the ADA treated group, they had to increase their insulin Two important things. Number one: Insulin is expensive. And number two: Not all the people which makes these results But what I would say is two different approaches The first, our group, meaning they need less medicine. And the second group, which very clearly which state that diabetes requiring more medicine over time. Progressive unless we take away the cause. So, what's the problem then? Why is this not everywhere? There's two big reasons. Number one: status quo. There are many agendas involved. We got this notion that low fat But a recent study just came out showing that there was to recommend to Americans And that's how the carbs got added in. It was essentially a huge experiment and it failed miserably. The second reason we don't Don't be fooled, there's a lot of money And what we see is, they are stacked So, the solution to the diabetes epidemic Stop using medicine to treat food. And for a disease take away the carbohydrates, so we can remember We knew it a long time ago, this was said thousands of years ago, and we need, in this day and age, Thank you. (Applause)