Why hasn't he come yet? Mr. Mo The old lady has issued a city-wide notice to choose a wife for you Once the applicant is selected Reward gift: 300 million The whole city chooses a wife What era It's a pity he could think of it Madam, isn't there anything you can do about this? You are not young anymore There's never a woman around. This is what the outside world says What are you doing? Like men I didn't say that. You said this yourself. Not doing the right thing well He's pretty tough I have done my best to do what you asked me to do. This is not The woman you asked me to find has been found Where are others? Not in town at the moment But he signed up for this election. Coo coo coo coo Boss I have already checked the things you asked me to investigate. Take a look The fire in my Su family It turned out to be made by the Ji family They set fire to my whole family Look at my lucky escape Just lied and said he saved me Not only did he embezzle the Su family's property I am grateful to them. Boss, you were the one who actually rescued you from the fire. Also found It's him Mo Xiuhan saved me Qixia told me that he was my enemy It's really a thoughtful That's them Boss, there seems to be someone outside You go in first, okay? Coo coo coo coo coo coo coo coo coo coo Miss Suzy I am here to see you back to the city on behalf of the Ji family. The Qi family saved me. I was always placed in the countryside Now ten years have passed Why did you suddenly want to take me back? You will know this when you return. Okay, I'll go back with you. It's time to settle some accounts. Why hasn't this come back yet? Wait a little longer. oops Ouch! Ouch! Qiqi, you are finally here It's been a long time since we last met. Look at this blink. It's so big now Isn't it? Auntie, I miss you. You think of me so much? Haha, what about you? Never came to see me once. Ah, Qiqi You really can't blame us for this. We found a master. I've got a fortune for you. The master said that you are born with a thin life If they are not raised in the countryside, You may not even live to be 18. I have to thank you for saying this. Hey, I'm with your father. We were close friends back then. It's my duty to take care of you. Hahaha You, please don't be so outspoken. Hey Minghao What are you doing? Didn't you say you missed Qiqi? Come over and say hello laugh Hee, welcome back. Hey hey hey What a country bumpkin Rustic Speak Pick me up What's going on? Ha ha Dowry, this could be someone getting married. You picked me up specially to give me some money as a gift, right? This is the betrothal gift It was sent by Mo Jia. The Mo family is now selecting a period for the whole city I gave you a name. I didn't expect you to be chosen. Hahahaha so take me back It's because I still have some value. Too 300 million is indeed a lot of gifts, hahaha What is the dowry or not? Qiqi Your parents died in vain We are doing this to help you get revenge. Hahahaha, yes, yes, yes Yeah So how can you help me? Qiqi, the Mo Group is now in Beijing. That's covering the sky with one hand. After you married Mo Xiuhan You just try your best to steal the secrets of the Mo Group. Leave it to us Hahahaha, we have our own way It turns out that he wanted to steal Mo's resources What a big appetite But I heard that Mo Xiuhan is the living devil of the Jing family. Vicious wrist If he knew that I stole the Mo family's secrets Can I still survive? Of course, idiots can't survive. You died in his hands. Shall we take action? Hey Qiqi, don't be afraid Wait until things are done. We will definitely bring you back Don't you want to avenge your parents? Of course I want to I promise you I will marry Mu Xiuhan Hahahaha I want to avenge my family personally Hahaha what a good kid That's right Just wait and see You are the one who saved me I finally found you, little girl. Why aren't you asleep yet? Of course I'm waiting for you. You're not afraid of me Should I be afraid of you? Su 7 has been living in the countryside for many years My daily routine is to raise chickens, ducks, and grow vegetables. Haven't read many books Life is simple and pure Since you are not afraid That night is worth a thousand gold Let's have the bridal chamber Hey hey hey Wait wait wait wait I'm not ready yet Silly girl is teasing you I won't force you to do anything I'll marry you Just to end this farce as soon as possible Actually, why did I marry you? You rushed into the fire to save me despite the danger I misunderstood you I will stay with you all these years. Help you soar Of course it's for the 300 million betrothal gift Very honest I'll forward it to you as soon as possible. real Why not choose a day? Why not call me now? 300 million yuan must not be allowed to take advantage of His Majesty I'll save it for you I'll give you ten times the money. I didn't expect that you, a little girl, are so obsessed with money. I'll find it for you now. Did you sleep peacefully? Um They say he is cold-hearted. Serious Why do I feel that it is different from the rumors? Xiuhan, your old lady should be happy when you get married Why are you still sick? He married a country girl out of spite. If you can't speak, shut up. That's right I heard that the old lady's illness is very serious this time. You guys have been looking for that Doctor Ye, but no news yet? I heard that he is in Beijing My people have been looking for it for a long time but haven't found it yet They are looking for late night Why That little girl is the country girl you married This is quite clean. It doesn't look earthy. Looks pretty white She doesn't look like a country girl at all. Oh, sorry. I got up late Mohism does not have so many rules You can get up whenever you want Uh wow What I heard Mo Shao seems to speak more gently You heard it right I see Well, you guys talk first. I'm going to have breakfast first Why does he look so familiar to me? I think I've seen it somewhere before. Why is he having breakfast now? You won't be waiting for me. Is there something on my face? ah No Your friends are back. Well, don't worry about them. After dinner, I'll take you back to the old house. Old House We are a family after we get married. Of course I have to go back to the old house to see grandma Hmm, grandma, is she not feeling well recently? It's an old problem. Now I'm older I don't know how long I can last this time. Are you okay? What's wrong? It's ok, I just choked on the water It's okay. Drink slowly. Don't take anything you hear to heart. You just need to remember You are my person No one dares to do anything to you Um I see Madam, please don't get angry anymore. Your health is important. Take your time My brother is really going too far. If you don't want to get married, you don't have to. Marry a country bumpkin Isn't this a slap in the face of grandma? Wanying, don't say too much I would rather say that we are a wealthy family of the Mohist school. How can an uneducated country girl marry a wine girl? It really brought shame to the Mohist school. Like Lin Xuejie, a rich girl You are worthy of being my sister-in-law. I see my brother I was deceived by those cunning country folk. Enough said? Wanying, stop talking Brother Xiuhan should be angry Starting next month, pocket money will be halved Why? When do you learn to respect? When will your sister-in-law recover? I don't want a country girl as my sister-in-law. Parents and Grandma What are you doing? And brought this country girl with him I think you want to piss me off to death. Grandma has a sharp tongue but a kind heart Ignore him. Pale complexion Black forehead Dark blue at present Stiff fingers This is Memir's syndrome Grandma, don't be angry. The doctor said You can't be angry Nan Nan, I know you like to draw. I brought this specially for you. How could Master be in his hands if I threw him away? Xiaoxue, which master wrote this? I couldn't understand it for a moment. Just feel a little familiar Sister Li Xue, this is the painting of the Shadow Ambassador Is it world-renowned? Works of famous painter Ying That's right The artist of this painting is Yin Lin Sister Xue, you are so amazing! Where did you get this painting? The whole world is vying for this painting I can't buy it even if I want to You actually want to give such a precious painting to grandma? This is obviously a defective piece of mine. Qiqi, are you interested in this painting? What does he, a country boy, know? This painting looks flawless. But there is a flaw And cannot make up for it Miss Su, do you know who the photographer is? Are you questioning his paintings? This is it It must be a mistake. The color is heavier I think this seems to have some problems Grandma, you are confused. Why is there a problem with Master Yin's paintings? Don't listen to his nonsense. Grandma, do you like painting? I'll bring you a better one next time. This country girl can find spiritual energy I said country bumpkin Do you know who painted this picture? Also with better You will never be able to afford this painting in your lifetime It's your blessing to be able to see it today Maybe I couldn't afford it in the past But she is my wife now What's so difficult about buying a painting? Say one more word Stop pocket money grandmother You I don't learn anything all day There is no country girl who can speak Why is this old woman speaking for Su Qi? If she hadn't been a demon Brother Xiuhan would not marry this country bumpkin Grandma, is it time for you to take medicine? Mom, the medicine is cold. Um, what kind of medicine is this? Of course it's the medicine prescribed by the doctor. Why are you asking this? Could it be that you also know medical skills? I learned some medical skills from a master in the countryside. Grandma is a poison You are old, so you should drink less medicine. Qiqi, have you ever studied medicine? The doctors of the Mohist School were hired from abroad at high prices. Are your medical skills better than theirs? I don't think he has good intentions at all. Mom and grandma Mom, don't scare me. Mom and grandma Are you okay? doctor Call me a doctor. How about Qiqi Grandma's pulse is very weak Must be treated immediately Otherwise, there will be danger to life The quacks you think of are all charlatans. Stay away from my grandma. Fainted again The old lady has already stepped into the trap this time. Prepare for the afterlife What? Send grandma to the hospital quickly. The useless old lady is already terminally ill. Nowadays, domestic Unless Doctor Ye takes action Otherwise no one would know Where is the Night Doctor? Call for help quickly! I've sent people to search everywhere. No trace found What to do then? We can't watch grandma die. Grandma, I don't want you to die. Doctor Moon takes action Maybe there is still hope Half an hour later Even if Doctor Ye comes There is no way to save the situation. Soo-Han's brother Don't be too sad. Grandma is old after all. Give me a box of silver needles and I can save you Miss Su's life is at stake This is no joke Girl, I see you are very young. At most, I've studied medicine for a few years. I After all, he is an expert with more than 20 years of clinical experience. I can't save you I think you should stop overestimating yourself here. Grandma, please don't die. I don't want you to die I said I could save you. Now you have to believe me Is there any other solution? Qiqi Can you really save it? Here's my chance to repay him. So help grandma to the bed Prepare two boxes of ink pins Bro, what are you doing? Let him give grandma an injection What does he know about art? He'll kill grandma. It's already this time Let him try. Brother Xiu Han You just trust him. What are you still standing there for? Do as I say. Something went wrong I'm worried You guys are just messing around. I am here I have been practicing medicine for many years. I won't be wrong about the old lady's illness. It can't be cured Just because you can't be cured doesn't mean others can't be cured either A little girl What a big tone! If you can cure the old lady's illness I'll kneel down and kowtow to you right there Su Qi, you used my grandma as a test subject If my grandma has something to do today You are the murderer Isn't there something wrong with this country bumpkin's brain? The old lady couldn't survive. His current time Is to rush to bear the charge of murder It's really stupid Xiao Han Or maybe you should just not let Qiqi wade into this muddy water. He is still young He can't bear the sin of harming others. I believe him Brother, what kind of magic potion did he feed you? My grandma got sick because of him. If grandma dies in his hands today I'll send him to jail. Waiting for the redneck to go to jail Brother Qiuhan is mine Wanying, since Miss Su is so confident We believe her. I don't like to be disturbed when I'm distorted Everyone's Day It's really hard to persuade you to leave first. Damn, you're going to regret it. Wanying, let's go out and wait I'd better prepare for my mother's funeral. ah How is Qingqing? It came out so soon. Grandma, you guys should go and see for yourselves. Grandma Mom, you woke up. Grandma Grandma What happened Why are you here? Grandma, you finally woke up. You are the one who howls the loudest Like howling People who don't know me would think I'm dead. Quick, quick, quick Ask a doctor Is my mother okay? Grandma, this isn't a last gasp, is it? Come come come come Come on, old lady. Madam, he's fine. The breath is very strong Explain the body But the functions are starting to recover. Thank you, Qiqi You saved grandma. You don't have to thank me This is what I should do how so There must be some misunderstanding. How could this country bumpkin have this ability? Dr. Sun You're a professor at a top medical school. Are you sure you didn't see it wrong? You read that right. The old lady is indeed well. Can Didn't you say before that grandma is terminally ill? How come it got better suddenly? Oh, it's me I'm not as skilled as others. mom It was Qiqi who saved you What? This girl saved me. Time is ignorant The Night Doctor Arrives Professor Sun, you got the wrong person. I'm not Ye Shen Ye You are not Ye Shen Ye How is that possible? Professor Sun, you studied Western medicine. Not understanding the profoundness of Chinese medicine culture I happened to have seen my grandmother's illness in medical books. Not a miracle doctor. All parties are looking for Doctor Ye, I can't admit it yet. It's just a blind cat meeting a dead mouse. How could he be a miracle doctor? You stinky girl Who is the dead rat? I think it was a misdiagnosis. Yes, you're a quack. And called my grandma dead My grandma is going to celebrate her 80th birthday. Misdiagnosis: I have been practicing medicine for more than 20 years How could it be misdiagnosed? If it wasn't a misdiagnosis. Did you deliberately murder you? How do you talk? Doctor Sun, you leave first. Good good good I invited Professor Sun. Qualifications will not be a problem Grandma's illness is due to Qiqi I've heard about it a long time ago There are some barefoot doctors among the people Specializes in treating various difficult and complicated diseases Qiqi has received the true teachings from the master Come here, little girl. grandmother Your body still needs some time to recuperate. I'll give you a prescription later. Just drink some mild tonic. I admit that I underestimated you. You saved me today Just ask for any reward you want. Grandma, I don't want anything. We are a family You don't have to be polite to me Still a family Stop flattering yourself. Meng Wanyun, are you going to break off relations with me? Oh my brother I'm wrong, that's not okay Don't rush to refuse Think about it carefully Ask me when you've made up your mind. Grandma has spoken Don't refuse. Um Oh well Brother Xiuhan is not trying to deal with grandma Did you just marry this girl? Why are you so nice to him? I can't let this country bumpkin take Brother Xiuhan away from me Qiqi Have you figured out what reward you want from grandma? Grandma, that's what I should do. I don't want any reward Don't look at grandma's age. There are many good things in my hands. Don't be polite when you need it But I don't lack anything. I really stayed in the mountains for a long time. I haven't seen anything good. She looks cute without any desire. Where are we going? Go shopping What to buy? You will know it later. You come here to buy things. Any questions? No Gone Boss Ahaha How come there is no customer in this hot weather? What would you two like to see? Yeah, just take a look We have fine antiques in our store. Please take a look at those two. Boss, what's going on? If you want something, just tell me, okay? Why come here in person? Qiqi, pick any one you like and I'll pay for it ah I heard that Master Yin said this. You want Master Yin's words If you want the Shadow Master I know that the works of the master of shadow are not easily sold. I'm here today Come with sincerity I want whatever price you ask What's going on? Does the boss know that he is stupid and has a lot of money? Deliberately concealing his identity as Master Yin Bring him here to blackmail him? You really have the words of a shadow master. Of course. I was wrong Didn't the boss bring him here to extort money? Take us to see Look at you two there. This is the only painting by Master Ying in the store. I bought it. You don't ask the price I said I came here with sincerity today I'll buy it no matter how much it costs really 5 million Um 50 million No, not really. 500 million Swipe your card How can this painting be worth 500 million? Really stupid people with lots of money He was willing to pay 500 million yuan for the painting. But looking at his posture Even if it's 5 billion, he'd be willing to buy it. I won't add any more Honey, let me see what the owner means. It shouldn't be 500 million. This stuff is so precious How can it be measured by money? Um It should mean priceless treasure. husband When did my husband get married? After a long time I'm the ring at your door Priceless Treasure You mean you don't plan to sell it? Of course not for sale Priceless Treasure That's priceless. Cannot be sold Ahahaha This painting can only be given to the destined person. Sir, I think you have a connection with this painting. I'm going to give it to you for free. What Free for me That's right haha This flower is already yours. You can take it away Let's go cut You gave him to me so readily. It makes me doubt the truth of this statement. This is the most famous antique shop in Beijing. Definitely won't sell fakes Beijing Municipal Market Supervision and Administration Bureau But it's strict What are you doing? Don't you like Master Yin's paintings? I brought you here specifically to buy paintings. I ended up picking up a piece for nothing. You won't dislike it, right? Of course I won't hate it It turns out that he bought this painting for me. Is he worried that I don't have a good painting to give to grandma? Mr. Mo The president of Best International Group has arrived in China He wants to see you Please come to the company immediately. Okay, go back right away. Best International Group Why does it sound so familiar? Qiqi Company has something going on I have to go back first Can you do it yourself? Of course you can rest assured. ah Call me anytime if you need anything Okay When did you get married, sir? oops Why does that man look like your savior? ah Boss You're not going to repay me for saving your life, are you? Don't ask about the affairs of the underworld Oh, that's right. Go back to the countryside Get back the mountain painting I treasured Mountain Home Aren't you always reluctant to sell it? Who said I was selling it? Grandma will be 80 next month I promised to give her a nice painting. Okay, I'll close the store in a minute. There is no rush to go back to the countryside You can just pick it up tomorrow. Remember to send it to Mojia after you pick it up. Then I'll go first Bye bye The people of Mohist School don't know my identity yet Don't let the cat out of the bag. Leave it to me Boss, wouldn't he? Do I really have to marry my savior? But that guy is handsome Good figure I still have money and I am willing to spend it on my boss Perfect match Miss Lin, you are here. Is Xiuhan brother home? The Master is not here Only the young lady is at home Madam, that country bumpkin Yes He is just Xiu Han's brother's way of dealing with grandma. Will be driven away soon Take me to him yes Best International Best International Group I said it sounded so familiar It turned out to be an international fraud organization I have to tell Xiuhan right away Can't let him be deceived. Why How come I forgot to save his number here? Mrs. Shao, please have some tea. Put it over there first. What are you doing? Are you embarrassed? I didn't hold it firmly and it splashed on you. I see you didn't hold it steady. You did that on purpose, didn't you? Deliberately How about you, you dead country bumpkin? Your clothes It's obviously worthless street goods. I'll just compensate you. Ah you Your clothes are scary. It shouldn't be worth much more money. You damn bitch You really think you are the last lady of the family. If you still can't learn to speak human language I can continue to teach you Country people really have no education When guests come, not only do they not say hello He also beat and scolded the servants in front of the guests. guest Miss Lin and the young master are childhood sweethearts. The two families are old friends. Miss Lin is naturally a distinguished guest Ms. Lin I accidentally spilled water on her. She started to attack me You have to make the decision for me. Su Qi You're a country boy Marrying into the Mohist family is all about luck Restless He also brought the barbaric and vulgar things from the countryside to Mohism. Looks like I have to do justice today. oh Then you tell me How do you want justice? I'm a fair person. I just want to ask you if you hit anyone. Didn't you just see whether I hit anyone or not? So you admitted it? I admit it So what? Just admit it You are from a poor family. I'm not worthy of Brother Xiuhuai Plus I don't know the rules I am not worthy of staying in this Mo family. Today I will show kindness Teach you the rules OK Then you tell me How do you want to teach me the rules? Xiaomei, which side of your face did he hit? He hits both sides. OK You dare to hit me No one in this world dares to teach me the rules Because I am the rule You bitch Do you know who I am? If you offend me, be careful My brother can't forgive you. You actually dared to hit Miss Lin Miss Lin and Master grew up together. Love Miss Lin The young master will definitely make the decision for you. I don't want to know who he is. Just need you to know I, Su 7, will never be bullied Su Qi, you and the young master are not a good match You were just hired to make up the numbers. You have offended Miss Lin The young master will definitely kick you out of the Mo family. Miss Lin is back Miss Lin, Master is here to make the decision for you. Su Qi, this bitch, didn't just hit me Weren't you all beaten? Su 7 Today I will let you know What will happen if you offend me? You want to kick me out of the Mo family so much? Why do you want to be in the top position? You, a good-for-nothing country bumpkin, can marry into this country. Why can't I come to the door? Yeah Madam, how could you push Miss Lin? No way It's almost 2025 Still playing such an old-fashioned trick? Next time, try something new What's going on? The fierce brother You are finally back Susie is having a heart attack To kill me What happened to your clothes? Uh, this young master I just served tea to the young lady. He is playing on his phone I spilled the tea without noticing. Then he suddenly went crazy Hit us all Miss Lin wants to say a few words to help He even attacked Miss Lin They were all shot by you. They were all shot by you. So what? There is no difference between hitting one and hitting 10 I'm right. He admitted it, right? Young Master, country folk like you have no upbringing. In my opinion, he is not worthy of staying in Mohist school. Yes, Brother Xiuhan The bad nature of country folk cannot be eliminated. But let him go. Your hand doesn't hurt, does it? Next time you encounter this kind of thing, don't do it yourself. I'll teach you Visitors These servants are disrespectful to my wife. The following is against the superior Give me a good lesson Brother Xu Han Did you make a mistake? It's not the place for outsiders to interfere in my family affairs I am an outsider Master, I know I was wrong. Spare me Put these no one Throw out things that are not distinguished by status Don't chase us away Miss Lin, please save us. Miss Lin, save me He's making the decision for me. You go too. Brother Xiu Han You are too biased. Miss Lin, please I'll help you change your clothes. Changed Well, it's not my fault today. What do you do? You are my wife As a husband, of course I support you unconditionally Even if it's my fault You are also towards me I know it's not your fault In this house from now on Who dares to look down on you? At your disposal actually I don't care what others think of my identity But I will never let anyone bully me. Don't worry If anyone dares to bully you again I'll be the first one not to let you go Aren't you going to the company for a meeting today? How come you're back so soon? Best International Group I still need to verify his internal situation. Why do you think this company is unreliable? Something is wrong Then you trust your instincts. Stop working with them. They say that listening to your wife will make you rich. Okay, I'll listen to you. Cancel cooperation You really listened to me. Um That's good Dingsheng Technology recently has a project You can definitely make money if you invest in them Dingsheng Technology Why are you interested in these companies? Because I heard The world's number one genius hacker sister Participated in the project development of this company And I am the sister So I believe he hums It's for star chasing. So you vote? Hello Immediately invest 1 billion in Dingsheng Technology What is Mr. Mo? Why did you invest so much money in a startup company? If you are asked to vote, you vote. Why so much nonsense? So straightforward Why do you look like a love-brained person? I think I'm too impulsive. Yeah, a little bit. But since you choose to believe me I won't let you down You said it as if you owned Dingsheng Group. 1 billion I have already paid. I have paid. Money can't buy you happiness Why are you so nice to me? Stop bullying me. Believe it or not, I will beat you The Little Witch of the Master and Disciple Run, run! Bro, are you injured? I'm not a beggar I was kidnapped by bad guys. Do you know where your home is? Why don't you come home with me first? I asked my parents to help you find a home. You don't think I'm dirty Aren't you afraid I might have a virus? Don't worry, little brother. I will protect you Because You're Worth It According to custom Tomorrow is your return day I heard you grew up in the Ji family. Do you want me to go back with you? Need not They're not my family. Then I'll go to work first. Well, you go and get busy first. Hello Su Qi, you haven't forgotten what we told you, right? Of course I didn't forget Tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock North City Cafe I'll give you what you want So fast Okay, then we'll see you tomorrow. I didn't expect this girl to be so capable. Now it seems We were right to spare his life. Treat your benefactor as an enemy Treat your enemies as your benefactors Hahaha Su7 ah Su7 You are so stupid So sad seek death Then I'll fulfill you The apocalyptic enterprise has made a big move recently They have their eyes on the company's new project It is said that the profit is as high as 10 billion Bosch International Group I know this company is a large foreign enterprise The president of this company is coming to China soon Only Mo Xiuhan knew this news If you dare to reach a cooperation with them before him This profit is enough to turn the Ji family around. Profits of 10 billion How much money should I invest? Such a good project Of course, you can invest as much as you can. The Qi family has been Poor management and little money If I voted all in, what if Otherwise, you won't achieve anything great. If you had half the courage of Mo Xiuhan The Ji family wouldn't even be unworthy of carrying someone's shoes. you OK, I'll put all the money in. Don't blame me for not reminding you. How fast can you move? Otherwise, you may not even be able to drink the soup. Wait a minute Recently, there is a Dingsheng Technology I heard it's a dark horse. Did Mo Xiuhan mention it to you? Mentioned it He said that this company will go bankrupt within six months. Luckily I didn't have a condom Okay, I'm leaving first. Don't contact me. That person is Su Qi Invest all your money in Best Group immediately Remember to get there before Mo Xiuhan Collaborate with them And what about Dingsheng Technology? Block me immediately! Not a penny can be invested This is Xiuhan's brother's rival Su Qi just met him Find out who that man is. The relationship between him and Su Qi must be complicated. Hello How is Qiqi and Ji Jiaran doing? Do you need me to pick you up? No, I'm on my way home now. Be careful Okay, I'll wait for you to come home for dinner. Yeah, go back at night. Um Come in So busy? Boss, why are you here? I'm free today Come and have a look What are you busy with? Of course, I am busy making money. Oh, Boss. The software you just released is really awesome. Crushing global technology companies So how much can you earn by ignoring this 1 billion investment? Say less Double Less This is still less, this is already a 200% profit This billion investment can't make 10 billion That's because we don't have the strength. 10 billion Boss, although our stuff is good But it is a start-up company after all. To make such a huge profit in a short period of time A bit difficult Isn't this me? Please press the user key for face recognition Face recognition success Entered personal homepage Boss, I leave it to you. I'm going out for a walk. Go ahead Mr. Mo Dingsheng Group has arrived Mrs. Mo's illness has been cured. Do we still need to continue looking for Doctor Ye? Of course you have to find This top international talent It must not fall into the hands of others Okay, I'll send more people. Try your best to find him Do you two have reservations? This is the president of the Mo Group. I just invested 1 billion in your company. Is your boss here? It turned out to be Mr. Mo Our boss is in the company now I'll take you there now. Please go this way. I'll take you to Mr. Xie's office. A piece of cake Our President Xie is inside Mr. Mo, please come in. Why is Xiuhan here? Damn Xie Feiyu Where did you go at the critical moment? Thanks a lot You go back first It's not hard, this is what I should do I can go in by myself. Mr. Mo How come you are here Mr. Xie made the bold visit Don't mind? Of course not You invested 1 billion yuan in us so readily. I should have visited him in person. Maybe if he disturbed the boss I'm in a life or death situation. Actually, I came here today for something. Thank you, Mr. You're welcome. Let's talk in the meeting room. Mr. Mo, please. Why doesn't Tom go to the office? ah Ai Ye is stable well Hello Boss, when did you leave? Ah, just walked for a while Mo Xiu is still looking for you What's up? The doomsday system is frequently attacked by hackers I know the first hacker is related to us. I want you, the boss, to help him solve the problem. There are still people who dare to attack the Doomsday System This is on me. Mo Xiuhan said his wife was a picked-up fan I hope we can meet each other. But when did he get married? Who is his wife? It's me Boss, what did you say? The office is too windy. I didn't hear you clearly. Can you please say it again? I said I am Mrs. Mo I am Mrs. Mo Boss, you are really married. What are you in such a hurry to do? No, since you are a couple What song are we singing today? Why do I feel like a clown? We had a flash marriage He doesn't know my identity yet. Boss, you guys are following the trend. Don't let it slip. Xiaohan Seven Seven Xiaohan, how long will you continue to work? Might be late today. What's wrong? Is there anything wrong? Nothing Well, I'll go to sleep first. Okay, then you should go to bed early. Please use the face recognition Identification success Entered personal homepage You dare to hack into my husband's computer system See how I fight back. Mmm, so sweet Why did he ask me how long I had to work? Is he waiting for me to sleep? Why didn't I react? What should Qiqi say about me? Straight Man Work is not as important as wife OK, you guys even hacked into my husband's computer system See how I fight back. oh You guys teamed up to deal with my husband, right? Die What is Lin Young Master, this little girl, besides raising chickens and ducks in the countryside Have you learned how to play games? Why is he back now? Once my UR hacker program is launched Can't terminate What game are you playing? Let me see. Let me see It's so mysterious. Let me see. Qingqing, what are you doing? He really meant that. Not ready? Ahhh What do you do? Help you go to sleep You're not ready I won't force you Then put me down first What game were you playing just now? Mr. Mo, our company's system crisis has been resolved. and The hacker websites that have been attacking our system All paralyzed by anti-black My sister did it. Mo Shao It seems that we made the right investment in Dingsheng Behind them are old He might be the world's top hacker I have to thank my wife for this. It was he who suggested the overhead It's right to listen to my wife. Your idol helped the company solve a big problem Really? Congratulations. Not us We are a couple, a family. Uh ah What were you playing just now? ah Nothing, just some childish games. It's too late now I don't want to play anymore Please help me put it back Let me see what kind of childish game it is. ah Your computer is out of power. Yeah, I forgot to charge it. Okay, go to bed early. Qiqi If you're ready, please tell me Some things have to be taken initiative by men. Good night Good night Wake up early Come and eat Um Today's breakfast Why does it look different from usual? What's wrong Oh, it's okay. How is it? Is it delicious? tasty What happened to your hand? oh First time cooking Scald it You made today's breakfast. Are the chefs on holiday? The chef has no holiday Don't I want to practice my cooking skills? If it tastes good, I will make it for you often in the future. This one is slow to burn. After breakfast, I'll give you some medicine. Okay why are you laughing Nothing, it turns out having a wife is so happy You are teasing me Tease you Um Hey, what are you doing? That's called teasing You let me go What if I don't let go? Then I will bite you Mr. Zhao, you are on a business trip today. It's late. Like a puppy Now this is shy Not going out yet I'm going on a business trip for a while Bought you some small savings If you are bored, you can play with them. You let me play with the chicks. Don't you like raising chickens? That's in the countryside. Is this mansion suitable for you? Just treat this as your home in the country. Do whatever you want Xiao Qi found out Tell me what is the relationship between that man and Su Qi? His name is Ji Minghao The new president of Ji's Enterprise These years Su Qi Zheng was raised in the countryside by the Ji family. The Ji family raised him as a child bride. I haven't heard of child brides. Why did the Ji family raise him for no reason? It didn't say that she must be a child bride if she became a goddaughter. It seems to make sense Su Xi's marriage to Xiu Han's brother was a conspiracy I want to go to the Mo family's old house Eat more and grow up quickly Mmm you chicken stew with mushrooms Just roast it and eat it. Kung Pao Chicken How can such cold words come out of this 36-degree mouth? Oh, poor little chicken. Someone is coming to the young lady's old house Old House These little chicks are pretty cute, aren't they? Don't forget what we are here for. Sister, stop feeding the chickens. We have something to ask. Godmother, please sit here. Um good Su Qi, are you the child bride of the Ji family? What are you doing? I'm sorry. This is really ridiculous. I couldn't help it for a moment I think you are afraid of being exposed. I feel guilty If I were the child bride of the Ji family How could she marry into the Mo family? No one with any brains can say such a thing. Who do you say has no brains? That's the problem The Ji family has raised you for so many years. Why did you marry Mojia? Because Xiuhan likes me Some people try their best to please the elders of the Mo family. Just because Mo Han doesn't like him I still can't marry you in the end You are an uneducated country bumpkin. Do you think my brother really likes you? He just wanted to deal with grandma. Forget it, our married life is behind closed doors. There is no need to explain so much to you. Married life He has slept with Xiu Han's brother He must have seduced this vixen Brother Xiu Han Qiqi, let me ask you After you married Xiao Han Have you done anything to offend him? Sorry for his thing mom It's only been a few days since Xiu Han and I got married If you want to cheat That's not that fast. I I don't mean that Well, that is Did you sell the Mo family's business secrets to the Ji family? Looks like I was right. You really sold out our Mohist trade secrets. Give Su Qi Brother Xiuhan trusts you so much How could you betray him? Qiqi, it's true If this is true We, the Mohists, will definitely deal with this seriously. Of course it's fake If you say it's fake, it's fake. Sister Lin saw it with her own eyes You sell the Mo family's business secrets to the Ji family first. See it with your own eyes It turned out that he was poisoning The projects of Best International Group are obviously pharmaceutical Collaboration with Mo Now we have reached a cooperation with Jijia I heard that the profit of this project is as high as 10 billion What else can I say? The Ji family married you to our Mo family. Just to plot against my brother. It's not that you two are singing the same tune. It sounds like the truth What about the Best Group? Is a foreign company Who can guarantee that you can make money by cooperating with them? Xiao Han did not cooperate with them That's because he invests cautiously. Will the Ji family definitely make money if they cooperate with them? What Qiqi said is not without reason. Do you think this is the only evidence we have? My brother invested in the startup Dingsheng Did you let it? The Qi family has blacklisted this company You also asked my brother to invest Do you have bad intentions? What happened to startups? Who says startups can't make money? This investment was made by Xiu Han Are you questioning your brother's understanding of investment? Sister, let me ask you one thing Have you participated in the investment? I didn't want to take credit for it. But since you asked Then I have to admit Investing in Dingsheng Group is indeed my suggestion He admitted I said he was the one who did this. You're such a pest Sure enough, he came to harm my brother. You hit me A handy thing Mom, did you see that? This country bumpkin He beat me from childhood to adulthood, but you guys were reluctant to beat me He actually hit me Dare to hit Wanying He is the second daughter of the Mo family Apologize to him immediately What happened to the second young lady of the Mo family? I'm still his sister-in-law. He hit me He should apologize to me. Mom, look at him. Qiqi is right You hit him first. Apologize to Qiqi Mom, how can you side with a country bumpkin? Have you forgotten what we are here for today? Qiqi, you grew up in the countryside. How do you know about investment? Is there someone who taught you behind the scenes? Yes, Qiqi You are young and innocent I dare not be taken advantage of by someone with ulterior motives. Being young doesn't mean being innocent. He may have learned something in society. I was not the one who was used by my parents. But you What Our investment results have not yet come out You two bring your parents here to question me. This is how you stir up trouble between me and my elders. Do you want to replace me? I didn't say anything nonsense. Aunt, our two families are old friends. I'm doing this for Brother Xiuhan's own good. He has no dating experience It is easy to be deceived by these women in society I said Aunt Lin If I remember correctly You are several years older than me, right? Isn't that rich social experience? Who are you calling auntie? Except you here Is there anyone else with the last name Lin? The reason why Brother Xiuhan likes me Because you are not as young as me Not as pretty as me You vixen It was you who seduced the fierce brother Sister Lin Xue, are you okay? You want to be a fox spirit It's a pity that you are old and ugly Not qualified This is the quality of a rich daughter I think the widows in our countryside There's no difference. She compared me to a widow Don't stop me Let me tear her apart Enough of the snow. After all, she is the daughter-in-law of my Mo family. Don't go too far. yes You seem to be a very polite child. Why are you yelling today? Uncle and aunt are obviously Su 7 You don't hit him Why would he hit you for no reason? Why doesn't he come and hit me? that is I think parents are the most reasonable. That's mom and dad They want to harm my brother. Wake up. Today, I must get rid of this bitch Su Qi Drive us out of Mohism Yes, uncle and aunt. Brother Xiuhan was deceived by him You can't be fooled by him. Today I must clean up the mess for Brother Xiuhan I see this. Let's wait until the revised letter comes back. Can't wait for him to come back This evil spirit must be driven out immediately. What if Brother Xiuhan comes back? He is a vixen Just come Get Suzy out of here. What are you standing there for? Tie him up for me. What is this for? Wanying Before things are clear How could you kick Su Qi out? Oh, mom. Isn't it clear enough? It is clear which one is more powerful between Screw Group and Dingsheng Su Qi clearly wanted to harm my brother Which of these two companies is more powerful? Isn't it about the return on investment? Mo, how could the Mo family produce a fool like you? You can't even tell who wants to harm your brother. You dare to scold me Sister Lin Xue and my brother were childhood sweethearts Is he trying to harm my brother? Will this happen? Wait for the investment results of the Ji family and the Mo family to come out Naturally cute Mo Shao, our investment in Dingsheng Group Received profit payment How fast? 10 billion Oh my god I received 10 times the amount in such a short time. Industry hackers created this software from Dingsheng Group Can resist all travelers This company should not be underestimated. What? How could this happen? What's wrong Best Group Fraud Several companies were arrested abroad Susie, I see you are just stalling for time. A start-up How is it comparable to international companies? It's just a startup that wants to make money. You clearly want to make my brother continue to invest and lose money. Susie wants to harm Mo Shao Why don't you kick him out right away? I think you are the one who should be kicked out. Who are you? Who am I? What are you? Also suitable for Mohism Wow, you're a bumpkin. You dare to scold me Why are you hitting someone? you You got it wrong I hit it. Not a human Su Qi, this is your accomplice, right? How can you let him run wild in Mohism? Do you still have the elders of the Mo family in your eyes? Did your parents see it? Su Qi doesn't take you seriously at all Qiqi, who is this person? He's my guest. Today I received a painting. Don't think you are right just because you complain to someone first. Who starts first? People with clear eyes can see clearly Xiaoxue, I'm not saying you You are so rude today. What are you talking about? Can you show it to me? Su7 a country bumpkin What to watch It must be a cheap product that no one wants on the market. It made my eyes dirty Long hair but short knowledge Who are you talking about? I'm talking about you What's the matter? Please take a look This style looks familiar Master Yin's paintings How is it possible? This painting must be fake. You are fake This painting can't be fake. Master Yin said about this painting This mountain dwelling painting is not for sale to the public. So this painting It must be a copy Su Qi You're not going to give this fake painting to your grandma, are you? Is such a good painting really fake? Of course this is fake. The artist of this painting said that he would not sell it. So this person is selling fake paintings. You are the one selling fake paintings. Do you know who is the author of this painting? I have received the painting You just go back first The little prince has a bad temper Can't let him talk anymore. just I don't want to waste my breath on you two losers. Wait a moment What happened to Mo Shao? fine I must have seen it wrong. The little girl doesn't know yet Give Her a Surprise Please help me put the words in the room As the second lady of the Mo family, I order you Get Suki out of here right now. Mo Wanyun, you are so brave Mo Wanyun, you are so brave Qiqi, are you okay? I'm fine bro I'm doing this for your own good Su Qi is the child bride of the Ji family The Ji family harmed you by marrying her to you Say one more nonsense. Throw it out to you right away. Brother Xiu Han Calm down. My uncle and aunt are still here. Qiqi You don't understand business. Don't interfere with Xiu Han Investment in the future. yes Be a good wife and mother at home in the future Just be a husband and mother What are you talking about? Xiu Han and the others blame me for letting you invest in Dingsheng Rather than Best Group Did you know Dingsheng Group just made 10 billion for our company What This is impossible Shi Kezhu, are you mistaken? Ms. Yin, are you questioning my ability to work? Oh no That must be because indifference is too powerful. If we cooperate with a group like Best That would definitely make a billion. that is Su 7 Giving such a good opportunity to the Ji family The Mohist School suffered even greater losses. You said the opposite. The Ji family suffered the greatest loss. Not Mohist What do you mean? News just broke today Baisi Group is a fraudulent enterprise Just after being defrauded from our country Already ran away with the money how so Did this country bumpkin Su 7 hit the jackpot by accident? How should I end this? Li Xue, are you going to harm my brother? Our two families are old friends. How could I be shy? Brother Han, how do you explain what happened today? It was you who asked us to go find Su Qi to settle the score You got it wrong. I'm here today There is another thing What's up Brother Xiu Han You should know Our Lin family got a piece of thousand-year-old jadeite Expert evaluation It can produce jadeite worth at least 100 billion I'm here today I want to invite you to witness it. Sister Lin Xue, your bathroom can really have so many doors. Of course. Our Lin family has been doing bathroom business This is the largest piece ever Qiqi, are you interested? OK, I'm bored at home. Let's go see it together Three days later My wife and I arrived on time Brother Qiuhan Why bring this country bumpkin with you? He understands me Qiqi We misunderstood you before. Mom apologizes to you. mom This is not your fault This is my private residence. No more without my permission No one is allowed to enter Brother, you really have no humanity when it comes to the opposite sex. Then let's go, hahahaha Qiqi You've been wronged I didn't suffer any injustice You don't have to worry They come to bully you. Why don't you call me? No, because I can handle it myself. I'll be here from now on Don't carry everything on your own Why are your eyes red? It's ok, maybe it's Jianshazi No one has ever said this to me. I'll help you blow Concubine Su will go back to Ji's house tomorrow knew Do you need me to accompany you back? No, I can solve it myself. Feel free to find me if you need me in the future. Okay I see Ah, don't move. Hahaha Pick me up What can I do for you? Hum You're a money loser You killed us. I'm kind enough to help you remember You treat me like this Great strength You help us Ji Family You introduce me What is Best Group? That's a scam company. We put all our money into it. The result is that all wasted Investing is risky. Who would have thought it was a scam company? Even Mo Xiuhan was almost deceived You said it easily. Our company is going bankrupt now. What do you say? Aren't I here to help you find a solution? What can you do? The only way now Just take the money back from Mohism Mohist 300 million betrothal gift Did it go into your account? Give it to us quickly. Yes, yes, I'm warning you. Don't think of keeping it all to yourself. Don't worry about your 300 million betrothal gift. I have already invested it and lost it all. What? How long has it been? You lost 300 million. Didn't it only take you a few days to lose half of your company? I didn't do that because of you Please remember that our Ji family has done you a favor. You can't do those ungrateful things Oh, didn't I just say that? I'm here to help you find a solution. I see What the Ji family lacks most now is money You said you would find a solution for us. You mean to ask Mo Xiuhan to give us the money? Oh, do you think Mo Xiuhan is stupid? How long has he been married to me? I ask him for money. Can he give it? So what else can you do? How much money do you want here? What is this? Loan Company You let us take out a loan What kind of shit is this? You paid so much money at once. What else can I do besides borrowing? This company has cooperation with Mohist I am willing to lend you money If you don't believe Ask who can lend you money. Then, is the Mo family willing to help us pay back the money? If I were to ask Mo Xiuhan for so much money directly He would probably doubt our intentions. But this loan is different. Let him help pay the loan. I don't think it's a big problem Hey We are Qiqi's mother's family There's no reason for him not to agree. Oh, that's it. The Mo family is so rich Take out some It's enough to lick the hole of our Qi family. Is it so troublesome? It's easy for you to say Then you go ask Mo Xiuhan for money. OK Let's go to the city to get the money. There is no other way right now. Your retribution has just begun Girl, there will be a lot of people inside. If you feel uncomfortable I'll take you home It seems that he really thinks I haven't seen anything. OK, I know. This is the first time I have seen such a large jadeite stone Boss Li spent 1 billion on this raw stone. A piece of raw stone can be worth so much money Is it really possible to find a 100 billion jadeite? Mr. Mo, Mr. Mo is here Mr. Mo is here too The little girl next to him Xiuhuan sister-in-law haven't seen you for a long time Mr. Lu Mr. He Why does this country girl look more and more familiar to me? But I just can't remember where I saw it. What is He Yichen watching? Ah, nothing I think I saw your sister just now Don't mind her. Such a big jadeite stone No wonder they make it so chaotic But it's not that easy to open this big rock Thank you very much for coming to the appointment I, Lin, spent 1 billion to buy this jadeite rough stone How many valuable jadeite can be found? Let me bear witness to you today. If the Lin family could find a jadeite worth 100 billion today Then from now on, your status in Beijing will be second only to our Mo family. Su Qi, you are from the countryside How can I compare with Senior Sister Lin? Why should I compare with him? If you are smart, you should divorce my brother as soon as possible. Sister Lin Xue is the perfect match for my brother I won't. I want to be with you, Brother Xiuhan, for a long time. you What's wrong It's okay, I just suddenly want to confess to you, okay? Of course you can My Qiqi Do whatever you want So disgusting This country bumpkin Haunting Brother Xiu Han all day Standing next to Mo Xiuhan The country girl he married Yes, besides being pretty How can she compare to my daughter? Today I want her to take a good look at me Lin's Strength Only my daughter is worthy of Meng Xiuhan The first cut of this rough stone can already vaguely see something Boss Lin's 100 billion is probably safe. Boss Lin, please make the second cut. Everyone is looking forward to it This gambling world There is an old saying that one knife makes you poor, two knives make you rich Three cuts to chop the sackcloth This second knife is crucial. It's really tense. Hahahaha everyone can come today Give me Lin enough face I won't keep you guys waiting. Visitors Hook saw gambling stone It seems Boss Li is full of confidence in this big stone. This time, the Lin family seems to be making a complete comeback. Xiuhan, where do you think the second strike should be made? It should come down from the middle of the stone. Then this knife is equivalent to cutting in vain. Miss Su, you still understand these I don't understand. I just said it casually. Are you interested in Emerald? When this is over, I'll take you to buy one. You just bought me some jewelry. No need to buy anymore Yichen, do you smell anything? No taste The sour smell of love We have already prepared the position for the second cut. It's really in the middle. I have been in the gambling stone business for so many years To be honest, I can't see through this rough stone. You mean there's no stock in there? Impossible I have already found many people who have seen it. They all say there are good products Brother Xiaohan My dad said this rough stone is of top quality I'll have someone make a batch of jade bracelets for grandma. My aunt sent it over. Is there any good stuff here? You won't know until it's out, right? Ms. Xiao Hansu If you don't understand, don't talk nonsense. Except for Miss Su, everyone here today is an expert No one thinks there is anything wrong You say this It is inevitable to be laughed at The reason why this gambling stone is called gambling stone That's because there's an element of gambling. The second knife hasn't been cut yet. Who can guarantee What qualifications do you, an outsider, have to say such things? Then I'll make a bet with you today If this rough stone yields good goods Then you kneel down and apologize to me What if it doesn't come out? You like to scream in front of me so much Why not just learn to bark like a dog in public? Why don't you dare to gamble? I have nothing to be afraid of. I'll just gamble. I seem to hear someone questioning me Is this stone valuable? snort This is the jadeite stone that my Lin family spent 1 billion to buy. I have full confidence in him I am willing to bet on the reputation of everyone in my Lin family To prove his worth The Lin family's reputation is at stake Boss Lin is so bold to say There must be some good stuff in here. Boss Lin, you really whetted everyone's appetite. Let's make the second cut. This knife not only concerns the reputation of the Lin family It is also related to the future emperor of the Lin family in this world. Mr. Lin has said this. If you can't open it Good things don't end well. The Lin family has been engaged in the jade business for so many years. It shouldn't be good. I declare that I am ready to make the second cut Ha ha Suzy Just wait for you to kneel down and apologize to me Hundreds of billions of jade I have to post a circle of friends Let everyone see Why is this happening? There is really no stock. Boss Lin actually made a mistake. No Impossible Didn't you ask someone to identify it? All the important people in Beijing are here today. Out of stock How can our Lin family live in Beijing in the future? Why isn't it white? Where's the jade? Didn't dad say it was the finest jade in the world? What is the Lin family doing? After a long time This is a broken stone. This is how gambling on stones works Until the last cut Never know his value He must have opened the wrong place. Someone give me the third knife. What is Boss Lin going to do with the third knife? Boss Lin, please think carefully. As the saying goes, one knife is poor Two swords, three swords, wearing sackcloth If you solve the third knife, it will be worthless. Mr. Lin spent 1 billion on gambling on stones Now I can sell it after two cuts If the third knife is solved Then the Lin family's 1 billion is really wasted. Mr. Lin has just made a harsh statement. The Lin family's reputation is at stake If he doesn't cut it again How can I be willing? cut Good luck will surely come from this. Dad, can this bring me great luck? I don't want to embarrass myself in front of so many people. I don't want to learn to bark like a dog able I must have bought this stone when The stone seller told me There must be some rare jade here You haven't been deceived, have you? Boss Lin, are you going to cut the third one? This stone that has been cut twice is worthless. Why don't you make an offer on the spot? Let those who are interested buy it. Let you lose less I am willing to pay 100 million to buy this rough stone I bought one billion The original stone I bought back suddenly depreciated to 100 million. God You really know how to joke with our Lin family. The third cut I don't believe that I can't get good luck. Come Cut towards this Look at this air I really don't know How did the Lin family start their jade business? This is the first time such a large jadeite has appeared on the market. It's normal to lose sight of No, this stone is indeed a good stone. Boss Lin's third knife I don't know if there will be a miracle. This first cut The flesh color has already appeared The second cut might yield a rare piece of jade. Success or failure depends on this one move If this knife doesn't ship again This stone is worthless. The Lin family's reputation was completely lost. There must be no problem Buddha bless you Buddha bless you Annoyed and annoyed Not worth the money I should have known that I would sell it for 100 million. What should parents do now? Boss Lin's 1 billion is completely wasted. After a long time The Lin family is hosting a banquet today just to make fun of us. Qiqi, you already knew it. The third one doesn't show anything. Of course this is the original stone That's not the way they cut it. If you are interested Why don't we buy it and see it for ourselves? Why do you want to rob me? You were planning to buy it back. I paid 100 million to buy this rough stone The stone was opened three times I actually spent 100 million to buy it This girl is an outsider. Yes, this stone has been opened three times. It's worthless now. Isn't this girl Mrs. Mo? Yes, I have heard that Mrs. Mo is from the countryside. Never seen the world I didn't expect it It costs 100 million Buy this worthless stone Su Qi, why did you buy this rough stone? Nothing, just fun. Buy it for fun Spend 100 million to play Why is Mr. Mo's wife such a spendthrift? So when you marry a wife, you have to marry someone of the same social status. Marrying a country bumpkin like this Really a spendthrift My wife can spend money however she wants. It's your turn to point fingers Su Qi, is it easy for my brother to make money? Why do you spend his money? Who said I want to spend Xiu Han's money? I spent my own money today Where do you have money? I heard that the Mo family spent 300 million yuan on marrying a daughter-in-law. Is Mrs. Mo going to use her own betrothal gift? Buy this gambling stone that has been opened three times My money is your money Spend it how you want I understand what you mean But what about gambling on stones? It's fun to spend your own money yes Of course, gambling on stones is more exciting when you spend your own money Why are you causing trouble? Little girl Do you really want to pay 100 million for this stone? Is this country bumpkin crazy? That's right. I wonder if Mr. Lin is willing to sell it. Dad, since Miss Su wants Sell it to him now. Got the Shu Qi My Lin family has also become a joke But Su Qi only needs to spend 100 million Buy back this useless broken stone He is the one who becomes the laughing stock. I have never seen such a stupid person selling stones. Tell me there's really good stuff in here. Dad, you've opened it three times. If there is any product, it will be out soon. Keep going We will become the joke of all pilots. Yes, while someone wants to buy it Act now Boss Lin, have you considered it? Boss Lin doesn't want to sell it, does he? Give me 1,000 yuan for this stone that has been opened three times I think it takes up space. Now one billion What is Boss Lin thinking? Dad, sell it to him quickly. Today, all the experts in the jade industry are here. Boss Lin, why don't you ask everyone Except me Who else is willing to spend that much money? Buy your rough stone I won't Who bought this stone? Whoever buys it will be the victim. Miss Su, have you considered buying it? Xiu Han, please persuade your sister-in-law What can't you buy with 100 million? Is it fun? My wife has the final say As long as she likes Buy whatever you want Shame on us Hum, bullying singles I agree Sell this jadeite rough stone to Miss Su for 100 million It really sold for 100 million. Isn't this bullying a young girl? Mrs. Mo bought this herself. Who can I blame? Well, since Boss Lin agreed, Let's sign the contract in front of everyone today. Someone bring the contract here. You're afraid we'll regret it. We're afraid you'll regret it. The country bumpkin made our Lin family earn 100 million for nothing Focus This contract has been signed The money has already been transferred. Then please bear witness to this. This rough stone is mine. Spend 100 million to buy that broken stone I thought I got such a bargain. It's embarrassing for my brother. Mrs. Mo is just a broken stone No one is competing with you. Su-7 can ask someone to move this stone away You bought it yourself We didn't force you to do that. Hey, what's the hurry? Since all the experts are here Then I will start gambling on stones in front of everyone today. This stone has been opened three times. If you keep going, you'll just end up with a broken rock. Yes, Mrs. Mo Boss Lin hasn't even shipped anything yet. What flowers can you bloom? Mrs. Mo, you should take the stone home to play with it. Stop embarrassing Mr. Mo here. This country bumpkin is not ashamed of himself My husband just told me This gambling stone will not end No one knows what the final profit will be. Although Boss Lin has solved it three times But I believe this rough stone must have more surprises My dad can't figure it out. Do you still want to solve the moon? It's a fool's dream I know where the jade is. Please sign from here. He really dares to cut it This was originally a joke of the Lin family. Isn't this a joke of the Mohists? What if there's a surprise? It really needs a surprise Then Boss Lin should vomit blood Hum, bye Must break You little bitch, wait for the joke. Brother Xiuhan actually let him do whatever he wanted It's rising. It's rising. And it's full of green It's full of green This is the best. Imperial Green This is the ultimate imperial green This cut made 1 billion yuan 1 billion is all that is required to earn So much money There's the remaining piece. Just cut it from the middle. how so Boss Ning cut three times but still couldn't get the jade. Miss Su's every cut is full of jade All rare treasures This amount is estimated to be more than 100 billion. These jades are worth so much money Mrs. Mo, who are you? Dad, it's impossible Are you okay, Dad? I said there are excellent ones. I said dad Are you okay? Dad, hurry up Call an ambulance The ambulance was spitting blood. The Lin family is really unlucky. The duck in my mouth flew away Mrs. Mo How do you know there is jade in it? Mrs. Mo, I apologize for my disrespect just now. I didn't expect you to have such good taste. It cost one billion I actually bought a rare jade worth hundreds of billions I didn't expect that Su Qi not only had wide eyebrows And made so much money I really misunderstood him. It's a pity that we don't have Mrs. Mo's vision. What a shame Thank you for your support Xiao Han, please find someone Put all the jade in a special place for processing So that the jade can be sent to the factory Qiqi, you are my lucky star. That is to marry me to ensure that you will not lose Sister Xiuhan helped you make a fortune You have to treat us brothers to a meal. Okay, I'll treat you tonight at the old place. Old Place This is the old place you mentioned. yes Have you never been to a place like this? Well, I don't drink. It's okay, just drink the juice. Mr. Mo's private room is ready for you. please Let's go Come, come, come, let's have a drink together Sister-in-law, don't you drink? Yeah, I drink this. Come Let's drink Let's drink This is not juice. This is fruit wine. This is juice wine. Fruit wine has less alcohol It should be nothing. Uh, should Miss Su and the Lin family have been in the jade business for so many years. They can't see through the rough stone How did you see through it? Just a lucky guess. Good luck. Why don't I have such luck? Hey, first of all, You need to marry a wife like him. This is too embarrassing. What's wrong? Nothing, I'm going to the bathroom Um No, I still feel dizzy. Su 7 Why is it you? Why are you everywhere? It's really unlucky You, Su Qi, are drunk Stinky Shambhala Not only did he steal Xiu Han's brother from me And it made our Lin family lose so much money See how I teach you a lesson There's a drunk beauty in the bathroom Please send her home. Practice Practice Practice She's such a rare beauty. Miss Lin is really loyal Not bad Get her up Beauty Get out of the way Beauty, you drank too much Let's take you home. Yes, you said you couldn't even walk. What should I do if I meet a bad guy at night? Hehehehe I'll let you guys go. If you don't let go, you will bear the consequences. What a big tone! I want to see what the consequences are today. Go away and stop talking that nonsense Let's take the people away first. Su Qi, you have been defiled by these people. I wonder if the shy guy will still want you. You drink first I'll go take a look. Hey, Brother Xiuhan Why didn't you call me when you came out to play? If you want to drink, sit down. I have something else to do so I'm leaving first Hey, Brother Xiuhan I feel a little dizzy Can you take me home? My contact will send you there later Can you rest assured if someone sends me I want you to send me personally What's going on? This is the situation What exactly is the situation depends on the circumstances What about tongue twisters? Miss Su, please go to the bathroom for a while. Don't be unreasonable with me Why am I being unreasonable? Our two families are old friends. Grew up together Isn't it your responsibility to send me back? I said I had something to do What's more important to you than mine? My wife's affairs are more important than yours. I just don't believe you would still like a broken woman Is there something wrong? I'll go see what's going on. I'll go too Oh, do you still dare? I don't dare, I don't dare, I don't dare Please let me go After I let you go, you can call me Auntie. Auntie, I was wrong. Stop hitting me, stop hitting me, aunt how so I'm not seeing wrong. These people were beaten by my sister-in-law You read that right I didn't expect such a weak girl. He's so good at it Xiaoqing, are you okay? I'm fine, they are the ones who are in trouble Sister-in-law, are they teasing you? Visitors Drag these two idiots out. A severe lesson Ahhh Miss Li Miss Li, save me, Miss Li How do I know the gangster? Sister, what's wrong with you? It's ok, I just feel like I drank too much I'll take you home My sister-in-law can fight so many strong men alone One glass of fruit wine and I'm drunk This vixen is more pretentious than me Yes, Master What happened to Mrs. Shao? If you drink too much, prepare some sobering tea Okay, I'll get ready right away. So when you said you couldn't drink, you meant not even a drop. I drink fire fire Is it hot? Mom and Dad hapiness I miss home. Enter Get up and drink some sobering tea Otherwise you will have a headache tomorrow. what you up to You told me before Let me tell you when I'm ready I'm ready now Siqin, are you sure you won't regret it when you sober up? I have no regrets Looks really tired. This point hasn't started yet. Sister, your phone number Please help me pick it up. Hey Boss Mr. Mo is coming to the company today He wants to see you Do you want to see You are Xie Feiyu You are Mr. Mo Qiqi What is the situation What is your relationship with Xie Feiyu? And what did he mean by that? Could you please bring me my computer? Your system has built a global defense Perform facial recognition Face recognition success Entered personal homepage You are my sister Um The dead girl has some skills You are not angry I hide it from you This is your privacy You have the right to conceal Do you really think so? Then I won't tell him my other secrets for now. I thought I was your idol. Send people everywhere to meet him You tricked me. Then you have to accept some punishment punish How are you going to punish me? Su Qi, this country bumpkin He got such a great bargain for nothing. We must not let the Mo family like him Why Grandma's 80th birthday is coming soon Embarrass him in public Miss Yin, our people contacted Master Yin's people No matter how we leave home He refused to sell the Mountain Dwelling No matter how much money you pay, I won't sell it In Su Qi's hand It must be a fake Find a great painter. Give me a copy. I'll do it now. Su Qi Since they are all fake I want you to see Everyone believes that I am the most famous lady in the world. I still believe you, a country bumpkin. alright Your company's defense system is already top-notch. Where did you learn computer? So awesome I learned it myself I didn't learn from anyone Self-study Um Why don't you believe it? No I think we're both so smart. If you have a child Isn't that genius? Children It's a waste for us not to have children now. Well Are you giving birth now? It's not a good place here, right? Mr. Mo Shen Group Mr. Shen has arrived I'm waiting in the conference room. Got it. I'm going to have a meeting first You wait for me here Well, you go Our Shen Group I am very sincere in cooperating with Mo. Mr. Mo, can you let us earn some money? Since I took over Moh's There is no one who has not made money by cooperating with Mo's Shen is always questioning my abilities. Of course not We believe in your strength, Mr. Mo But in this project We at Shen's have put a lot of effort into this. Mr. Mo, please give us some more strength. It seems today This cooperation is not going to work out. Mr. Mu, please don't worry. Please take a look at this before you decide The file has been encrypted by hacker program Please pay 30 million ransom to decrypt the files how so A hacker has ransomware on my computer. this Call the lady over. Don't pay the ransom yet I'll find someone to help you take care of it. Ms. Su Why is it him? Qiqi, can you handle this hacker program? Small Problem OK, the file has been decoded. Please wait. Great! Miss Su You helped me again Yo You knew each other before Had a chance encounter More than just a chance encounter Miss Su is my benefactor What is going on? If it weren't for Miss Su I, Mrs. Shen, would never have been here today. Mr. Sheng, please give me another chance. Mr. Sheng Mr. Sheng I promise to do my best this time Please, Mr. Sheng Mr. Shen, please go Mr. Sheng will not see you. I beg you Let Mr. Sheng take another look at my plan Please let me see Mr. Sheng again. I beg you Ms. Su What's going on Miss Su, you are here. Mr. Sheng has been waiting for you for a long time. A man's knees are made of gold You won't make people like you more by doing this It will only make people look down on you more. But I really have no other choice Goodbye, Saint. I can send the contract in for you. But you still need to modify this place Otherwise, Sheng will never give you a chance. Thank you so much Miss Su, you are the benefactor of our Shen family. If Miss Su hadn't helped me change the plan Mr. Sheng will never cooperate with me Hey Miss Su You are Mr. Mo's wife. Yeah Great! Mr. Mo I, Shen's, am willing to give up two more points to sign a contract with you. That's not necessary. Just sign the contract Okay, I'll sign it right away. Okay, then Shen will resign first. Today's meeting is over Thank you for participating Please move to the west I helped him last time It's just because his family has helped the Su family before I won't help anyone for no reason When did you become Mr. Shen's benefactor? It's a long story do you want to hear it I'm not that interested in other people's affairs You helped me again today I'm wondering what kind of reward I'd like to give you remuneration I don't want What is the reward? Are you sure not Is this reward satisfactory? satisfy But it's not enough Su Qin The group you hired last time are here to collect our debts. If you don't pay it back, the company will be ruined. Bring the money here quickly. OK, I know. Go right over there What happened? Something happened to the Ji family. Um But it's all their own fault. What is your relationship with the Ji family? I felt something was wrong before My parents and my brother They were the ones who killed him. Happy birthday to my sister My brother will always protect you. Qiqi is our little princess We will make your birthday wishes come true. Yes, thank you, little princess. This year's birthday gift has been delivered, please sign for it Mom and Dad Brother, you must celebrate my birthday with me every year from now on. good Of course We will always be with Princess Qiqi What is going on? What happened back then You really don't remember What to remember Qiqi, please go away Qiqi, you must live Dad, Mom, Brother Kiki walks Leave us alone Brother Qiqi said he would dirty you, so leave now Hurry up, the fire is coming If you don't leave now, you won't be able to leave. But my family is still in there. They are trapped Can't get out You go first etc. etc. etc. You don't remember that year Have you ever saved a little girl from a fire? That's what happened. You are the one That little girl is me. So your parents were not there back then. sorry Mention your sad things Sorry for my It's the Ji family They killed my parents. And pretended to adopt me and used me I didn't expect the Ji family to be so vicious. It doesn't matter Their retribution Already arrived Do you take the money? We didn't say we wouldn't take the money. We are working on this. Yes, our Yang girl The money will be sent soon. Hey, Ms. Yang good If he doesn't bring the money today I will destroy your company. Hey, don't, don't, don't Aren't you cooperating with the Mo family? Oh, yes, yes. The Mo family is our relative. Otherwise, you can go find the Mo family. The Mo family is so rich Do I need a loan? And you guys are like this Or a relative of the Mo family? Does he know you? No cooperation with Mohism Could it be that Suki deceived us? No, there's definitely a misunderstanding. Su Qi promised to send us money. Qiqi is here Oh, Mr. Mo is here too. Qiqi and Mr. Mo are here It must be helping us. Hahaha You are here to help them pay off their debts. What does the money they borrowed have to do with me? Suki, what do you mean by this? You borrowed from loan sharks Not yet You want me to pay you back? What sweet dreams do you have? I am Su Qi Didn't you promise us? I said You can ask Mojia to pay us back. Mohist money doesn't fall from the sky Why should I help you? Su Qi, you dare to play tricks on us What the hell are you guys not paying back the money today? Su Qi Don't you forget Who saved you? Tell Mr. Mu right away. Help us pay back the money. Of course I know Who is my savior? It's him It's him Su Qi, do you know what you are talking about? Ah Mo Xiuhan He is who he is My savior. Su Qi, don't be fooled by him. Don't believe what he says. You know best who cheated whom. I have already investigated what happened back then. Now all this is just your retribution Su Qi You did it on purpose We were deceived by Su Qi I did it on purpose, so what? You deceived me for so many years. Now I will let you taste the feeling of being deceived You damn girl I will kill you Qiqi is my wife now You want to hit my wife, don't you? No no no no That's not the case. Don't go, Su Qi She's our adopted daughter. There's a little misunderstanding between us Mr. Mo, please help us pay off our debts Please help us pay our debts. You owe this money Not worth mentioning for Mohists Mr. Mo, you have agreed to pay off my debt. Still not paying back the debt Ask my wife Qiqi just now It's all my fault You should tell Mr. Mo right away. Help us pay off our debt. Yes, Qiqi If you let Mojia pay off my debt You can let us do anything. The key is that the family cannot go bankrupt. If I want You are bankrupting the Ji family. Susie, the Ji family shouldn't have spared your life. Ning Hao, can you say such things? Oh, so many people here. Maybe I have to go in. Let you in It's only a matter of time. Send you out It's only a matter of time. That's enough. Are you done yet? Have you paid back the money today? Who is still The money the Ji family owes Of course, it was the Ji family who came to pay it back But look at them now I guess I don't have much money to pay you back. Why don't you sell this crappy company? Sell the house they live in. I guess I can change a few bucks. Su Qi I didn't expect you to be so vicious at such a young age. Our family has raised you for so many years. I actually raised a white-eyed wolf. I'm on my own in the countryside What did you feed me? That's also That's why we put you in the countryside. If you hadn't killed my family I am a Do people grow up alone in the countryside? Oh, and it killed people. No, no Don't listen to his nonsense. He has Shi Qingfeng He is talking nonsense I care so much about you No money or Visitors Empty their company for me. No, no, no, no No! Kiki Kiki Don't stand by and watch someone die. Only you can hold us Qiqi, I beg you Oh my god Don't beg him. Can't you see it yet? He just wants us to die. yes I just want you to pay for my parents' lives. Su Qi will never succeed Tell you later So many years have passed There's no evidence anymore. You just want us to come in. Now it comes to Don't you repent yet? What I regret most is that I didn't pluck out your eyes. Good and evil will eventually be rewarded It's not that I don't report it, it's not the right time yet It's not that I don't report it, it's not the right time yet Walk Why no appetite? My father helped the Ji family a lot back then But the Ji family not only repays kindness with hatred I still don't repent until now Know to repent Then he is not called a villain. Don't worry I have sent people to investigate the fire that year. We will find evidence of murdering your family. Let them receive the punishment they deserve They should pay for my parents' lives. In addition to paying for life Maybe living is more painful Mr. Mo, what a coincidence that you are here too Boss, I was wrong last time. Boss It seems that you are not being honest with each other. so You are the boss of Dingsheng Group. Xie Feiyu and I are just an employer-employee relationship I can fire him anytime. Boss, I really know I was wrong. I have something else to do I won't disturb your date. I guessed it before. Jane is the boss of Jinsheng Group But after knowing that you are simple I don't think so anymore. I still underestimated you You really underestimate me The little girl praised you. The tail is up in the sky Where does my tail come from? What are you doing in public? Eat like a child After dinner, go pick out a dress Grandma's 80th birthday All the important people in Beijing will go there. Dress formally Yeah, got it. Too exposed Too old-fashioned It really doesn't work Otherwise, forget it. I won't wear a dress. It's him There will be lots of wine for grandma's 80th birthday Don't drink it as juice like last time. How did I know that fruit wine can also make people drunk? If you like to drink Next time we'll drink at home real Of course it's true. Little greedy cat Walk Old Lady You look younger and younger. He doesn't look like someone from the 80s at all. This disease is cured The whole person is also energetic Thanks to my granddaughter-in-law. Was your illness really cured by your granddaughter-in-law? Yes, you are so lucky. Found such a good granddaughter-in-law Grandma, today is your birthday Happy birthday to you Long live the Lord This is your granddaughter-in-law. Isn't that my granddaughter-in-law? Grandma, you look so good today. I wish you good health Long life and good fortune Thanks to the medicine you prescribed for me. After I ate My waist is no longer sore My legs don't hurt anymore The whole person looks like 20 years younger Are you so awesome? Of course. If it weren't for Qiqi How can I have today? Grandma, that's what I should do. Sister Li Xue, do you think my bracelet is very pretty? A bracelet bought you. We have countless bracelets like this one. Su Qi gave more than just this bracelet There are many more at home. You have so many at home, but you didn't give me one. Your brother and sister-in-law It's fine if you sign it. You changed your tune so quickly. Qiqi, you are so beautiful today This dress suits you very well. I don't know what Miss Su gave today. What gift did grandma bring? Qiqi, you are here. What other gifts do you bring? You must bring a gift for grandma. I told you before I want to give you a nice painting I brought it today Mrs. Mo have no idea Which famous artist's painting did your granddaughter-in-law bring you? I heard Recently, there is a painter named Yin who is very popular in China. Many people are rushing to buy his paintings. Master Yin's paintings are not easy to buy. No relationship, you can't buy it. Sister Lin Xue The birthday gift you gave to grandma was also a painting I don't know This painting by Miss Lin and this painting by Miss Su Whose painting is better? Miss Lin is a famous lady in Beijing What kind of painting can she buy? Miss Su I heard he came from the countryside. Ms. Lin's words are even better. Could it be that Su Qi brought the fake painting from last time? You guys are so thoughtful in bringing gifts to grandma. Can't you let the servants put these gifts away first? What I mean is Since everyone is so curious The paintings that Miss Su and I brought Well, let me show you guys. Lin Xue went to see Xiaoyu not long ago Want to buy my mountain painting What does he want to do? Miss Lin is still very generous Let us feast our eyes today. We are blessed Why do I feel like things aren't that simple? I wonder if Miss Su would mind. I don't mind Qiqi Is this the pair we bought together last time? No no If Miss Su doesn't mind, Let me show you guys The people who came here today are all well-known figures in Beijing. If Su Qi really told a lie It's definitely a huge shame. I've always heard that Mrs. Mo likes to paint. I don't know the difference between the painting given by my granddaughter-in-law and the painting given by Miss Lin. Whose does she like more? We'll see whose painting is better. Everyone is looking forward to Su Qi Let's show it together OK The same painting this What's going on This painting is from Master Yin's collection This is much more expensive than the one I bought. It's really not that simple. This is the mountain residence picture of the shadow master Didn't the master say this painting is not for sale? Two identical paintings Indicates that one of the pictures is fake Miss Su, the Mo family is a well-known family. Today is grandma's 80th birthday How can you tell lies? This was the idea. Unfortunately, it can't be fake. Fake things can never be real My painting is real. You said your paintings are real Are my paintings fake? I bought my painting from the master of shadow You didn't buy your paintings from a street stall in the countryside, did you? I've heard that Miss Su is a country girl. She must not even be able to see the shadow master. How can I buy the paintings of the master of shadow? Miss Lin is the first socialite today I definitely won't buy fake flowers. Sending fake flowers to Mrs. Mo's birthday party As the daughter-in-law of the Mo family No regard for decency How can country people understand decency? It's still unclear who's real and who's fake. What conclusions are you making? Brother Xiuhan You should also know Our Lin family's position in this world I don't want to buy lies. So who is Su Qi? You probably don't know yet. You really don't know who I am. You only know that this painting is the work of Ying Do you know who Shadow is? Do you know what Zhiying's identity is? Um Have any of you seen Ying? Master Yin is very mysterious I can't find any information about him online. Not to mention his photos. Miss Lin just said He bought this painting from Master Yin. I guess he has met Master Yin. Of course I have seen it. Have you seen it? Do you know whether Yin is a man or a woman? Master Yin's words are all landscape maps So low-key and mysterious It must be Men are men You really open your mouth. How come you have met Master Yin? Su Qi, don't think you are lying. You can talk nonsense here No one will be fooled by you. With the status of the Lin family It's definitely not difficult to meet Master Yin Miss Lin's words must be true I don't know where Miss Su got the painting from. Could it be that I was deceived? ha Where did you buy this painting? I didn't buy this painting. I drew it myself. I drew it myself Just paint fake paintings. Still need to say it out It's really not shameful Everyone heard it, right? Su Qi's paintings are fake He has admitted When did I admit that my painting was fake? Didn't you say you painted your own paintings? The painting of Master Cube Shadow is given to grandma Not only is there no sincerity It's humiliating grandma. Whether this painting is true or false It's all intentional It's good as long as the heart is there Grandma, this is not without meaning. This is insincere. I think you are the one who is insincere. Holding a fake painting and still being so confident I've never seen someone as shameless as you. There was a quarrel Whose is real? Whose is fake? Why do I think Miss Su's paintings are better? No way, Miss Lin's painting is fake. Susie, you clearly said that you painted your own paintings So many people are watching. You still want to confuse black and white Not afraid of being laughed at I did draw this picture myself. Did everyone hear clearly? His paintings are fake. I drew it myself That must be fake. Don't tell me this painting is quite real Qiqi, when did you draw this? I have already drawn it Since I drew it myself That must be fake. Why are you still arguing with Miss Lin? Is there a possibility? She is I did draw this picture myself. This painting is indeed a real painting. Because I am the painter Su Akane Are you crazy? Do you know what you are saying? I certainly know what I'm talking about You said you were a shadow Do you think everyone believes it? This movie is a master of art. How could a little girl like him be a shadow? Didn't Miss Lin say that Ying is a man? Miss Su, how do you prove that you are Ying? I don't know how many surprises this little girl has. Ye Chen, are you crazy too? How could he be a shadow? How could a national treasure-level painter be so young? Doesn't this make me look incompetent? Your incompetence doesn't need anyone else's help. Why is Su Ziqi getting more and more outrageous? How could he be my idol? Ambassador Yin But of course I can prove that I am Yin Qiqi How to prove Suki How many tricks do you have left to deceive everyone? Let's take it out together. Everyone knows Ying and Ying's works It should be through her social account That's right, Ying's social media accounts have tens of millions of fans. Xiuhan, please get me the computer. Bring the computer It's actually very simple to prove that I am a shadow Just log in to the social account of the video Stop fooling everyone. You can't log into a shadow account. Why do I feel like things are getting more and more exciting? I find it unbelievable too He is so young How do you draw so many paintings? I have logged into this account. Now you can believe that I won. It's really a shadow account He actually logged in. No way, he is really a shadow He must have stolen Ying's account. The shadow account has not been logged in for a long time. You must have stolen it. This country bumpkin is definitely not going to be a world-famous movie star. Master Lin Xue You still insist on being wrong. If you defend against me, it's to save your life. Even if you log in You are not him either My words are true Your words are false. This year, domestic and foreign black It seems not surprising that Keshengxing accounts were stolen You mean he really stole Ying's account? My wife would never do such a thing. The fierce brother Country people have many tricks. Shut up my wife I am more charming than you Only based on the identity of one account Is it too hasty? I also think it's a bit hasty. All the dignitaries in the capital are here today Has no one actually seen the shadow? Is there anyone who can testify? The evidence is all there. These people still don't believe it Do you want me to draw a picture on the spot? But even if it is painted on the spot They may not agree that I saved the world. I prove that Su Qi is the shadow Mr. Sheng is here Mr. Sheng was once a god in the business world. Starting from scratch Young and promising Retired a few years ago Haven't appeared in public for a long time. I prove that Su Qi is the shadow Mr. Sheng Um I remembered No wonder I always thought Miss Su looked familiar. I've seen her at Sheng's before. You know each other, eh? Old friend how so How did the couple know Mr. Sheng? Never judge a person by his appearance Do you think he is young? I don't believe he has the ability. Did you know He is not just a painter. Shadow is so simple Mr. Shao, what do you mean? Besides being a shadow, does Su Qi have any other identity? Why do I feel that living in this world is a waste of resources? Girl Can I say All you need is to prove that my painting is real. My old friend Mr. Sheng knows everything If it all comes out I'm going to buy a bone today. Of course your words are true If your words are false What else is true? Is his real? Su Qin is Yin Ms. Lin's words are false impossible I might have been deceived. Got cheated Didn't you just say you saw You also said this Wei Ying is a man Why amnesia again? I forgot so quickly It turns out that Lin Xue has been lying I really can't tell Miss Lin is full of lies Tricked us all. I was deceived too. You believe me You lied to my grandma. And slandered my sister-in-law What do you want us to believe in you? sister in law Not intentional I really didn't mean it. Lin's daughter is just this kind of education It's really embarrassing for the family. It is true that appearance is not the best way to judge a person. Otherwise, you're on the wrong side. Su Qi, wait for me. I won't lose Mr. Sheng, it is a great honor for us to have you here. Madam, how can you have such a granddaughter-in-law? But I found a treasure. Mr. Sheng praised Su Qi so highly Hidden in the dark I actually treated my idol like that before. I'm so stupid. It is a blessing for the Mo family that Sun Er can marry Qiqi. Don't let such an excellent granddaughter-in-law run away. That's natural You don't have to say We in the Mohist school will also treat him well. 77 Grandma knows you must have seen a lot of treasures But grandma is such a gem It was handed down from our ancestors. There is only one in the world today Grandma gave it to you today. I hope you don't dislike it Grandma, you are so polite. Just such a big gem You really want to give it to me I'll just take a break A grandson He can marry you It is our blessing. We had a lot of prejudice and misunderstandings about you before. Today, if you take this gem It means you forgive us. Grandma, I never blamed you. I'm sorry, sister-in-law Stand and apologize What sincerity? Kneel down for your sister-in-law Hey, don't, don't, don't We are all a family now. I forgive you. Sister-in-law, you are so nice It's my ignorance Failing to recognize the great man I think of what I said to you before I feel so ridiculous. It's okay. I don't take it to heart. Let you get to know me again It's my fault Next month's pocket money will be restored Really? Thank you. Oh no I should thank my good sister-in-law. Qiqi Xiuhan It's quite late today. Don't go back. I have had your room cleaned up a long time ago. Let's stay at the old house tonight. OK Then we'll stay at the old house tonight. Okay Oh, so tired Tired I'll give you a massage No need, you should wash up and go to bed early. Young Master and Young Lady This is the soothing soup that the old lady ordered. Calming Soup Grandma is worried Please thank grandma for us. You two, please drink now. Can't I drink it now and wait? That's fine too. I'll put this here first. What's wrong Nothing, maybe grandma is anxious to have a grandson There's some extra ingredients in here. Hey, don't drink. Pour it out secretly later I'll go wash up first. Add some ingredients Hold grandchildren It's so hot hot The air conditioner is only 23 degrees, not hot enough Lai Qiqi Please help me, I'm in pain Uncomfortable You drank the whole bowl. Grandma's kindness is wasted. But this medicine contains Uncomfortable Okay, we are husband and wife anyway. Where is Xiao Han? This seems to be an old house. It's 9 o'clock. I've slept for so long. I'm sorry. I got up late It's ok. You must have been tired last night. I specifically asked everyone not to wake you up Just to let you sleep a little longer Old lady Miss Lin is here He said he brought Dr. Ye to treat you. What? Lin Xue found Doctor Ye? Grandma, uncle, aunt Brother Xiu Han The divine doctor is here Where did he find this fake miracle doctor? Qiqi, come and sit here Why Xiaoxue heard that you found Doctor Ye Yes, grandma found it with great difficulty. That Night Doctor Yes, I am old and incompetent. This is the Night Doctor you are looking for, haha Hmm, is this really the Night Doctor? If it is fake, it will be replaced But my grandma is already well. No need for miracle doctor After all, Grandma Ying has been ill for such a long time. What if you get sick? I'll bring Dr. Ye over to take a look. It's also for grandma's sake. Madam, I heard from Miss Lin about your illness. You have been ill for such a long time. There's no way it'll be healed all at once. But don't worry This divine doctor must have a way to help you get rid of the root cause of the disease Haha, maybe he is really a miracle doctor. I haven't shown this to grandma yet. I know that grandma's illness has not been cured. Although I have never treated the old lady before But I have countless patients who have cleaned my hands. What difficult and complicated diseases have I not seen? My judgment There will be no mistake Su Qi, I'll ask Ye Shenyi to come over It's also for grandma's sake. You can't just ignore the misunderstanding between us. I'm sorry to have delayed you. You're too cautious. Is what happened between us just a misunderstanding? Everyone knows that is Lin Xue, you haven't apologized to my sister-in-law yet. Why should I apologize to her? I'm here to see grandma. You are fine. Let the doctor take a look at my mother Grandma, you don't know that I went to find Dr. Ye How much effort It was not easy to find it. But I think I'm cured. It's not up to you to decide whether grandma is good or not Let Dr. Ye have the final say It's rare that you are so thoughtful. Then let the doctor take a look at me. Oh, good, good How's grandma? Oops, not so good How is it possible? Grandma eats well and sleeps well every day The whole person looks like 20 years younger How could it be bad? What you said is just a masked phenomenon The medicine the old lady usually takes Can you let me take a look? sure Someone give the prescription that my mother is taking to Doctor Ye Shen to prescribe a Mom, don't bother. This is the medicine I prescribed. Let me write it. Yes, Qiqi You should write it yourself. The problem lies in this prescription. The prescription is full of nourishing medicine There is no single medicine that can cure the disease. What's wrong with this tonic? A nourishing medicine It can only adjust the complexion But it can't eliminate the root cause. The body is in good condition Wouldn't the disease be cured? You can't say that. Regulate complexion It's just cosmetic Uh, what is the root cause? Still in the body In fact, it is getting weaker. So you mean grandma's health is getting worse? The old lady suffered serious internal injuries If you don't cure it I'm afraid my life is in danger. Oh, how could this happen? Su 7 These ancient medicines you prescribed for grandma Makes people think grandma is already well Actually no cure You want to kill grandma? Don't forget I gave grandma the acupuncture. Grandma can be well here. If I want to harm my grandma Still need to wait till now That's right At that time, Professor Sun said that grandma was already terminally ill. It was my sister-in-law who gave grandma an acupuncture treatment that cured her. How could she possibly harm grandma? yes I almost prepared the old lady's funeral. Professor Sun, that was a misdiagnosis. There's nothing wrong with grandma. Qiqi can't possibly harm a man Ye Shengyi, do you think my wife's prescription is wrong? So what medicine do you think should be prescribed? this Of course I know what medicine to prescribe Um In fact, I have already prepared A prescription is ready According to my prescription, The old lady's illness can be cured So many medicines Madam, you are seriously injured now. Of course, you should use more medicinal herbs, grandma Let me see Where did this liar come from? So brave Dare to come to Mohism to harm people What is this? I am Yeshen Yefu How dare you call me a liar? Susie, you don't have the ability to save people. And prevent others from rescuing people What are you worried about? I think you are the one with bad intentions. Medicine is poisonous What's more, there are so many drugs You and the liar you found Do you want to poison grandma? Who do you say is Where is the liar? He is the famous Night Doctor. I think you are afraid that he will take away your credit. It's funny that it's a doctor's duty to save people What merits? I think you made a fool of yourself yesterday I just found a liar today to make things difficult for me. You are talking nonsense. You said you were the Night Doctor Is there anything to prove it? Brother, haven't you been looking for Doctor Ye? Do you have a way to distinguish? He is Dr. Ye You believe me Yesterday you swore that you were telling the truth. In the end, I was slapped in the face by my sister-in-law. I am the real Dr. Ye No need to prove You're questioning me. It's just insulting me. Chen Ping, I don't watch it. Dare to come to the Mo family to cheat Don't think about leaving until things are clear. I know Ye Shengyi has a grease gun Specialized collection of difficult and complicated cases It's very simple. Just send me a message via email. If you really Just send a message to my brother's email I'm so old now. I won't use this thing. So you admit that you are a fake doctor? Uh no no no My email is usually managed by my assistant. That's simple. Just ask your assistant to send a message Yes, contact your assistant now. My assistant is usually very busy. I'll try to contact you guys wait Doctor Ye sent me a message I'll just say it He is real Bro, what's your expression? Let me see what Dr. Ye sent you. husband How can the god doctor send you a husband? He's a pervert. That must have been a mistake. Wrong post. Wrong post. How can you post like this? It must have been sent to the wrong person. No, it was not wrong. Because I sent this message. What is seven seven? How can you send a message using Dr. Ye's email address? Qiqi, are you Yes, I am the real Dr. Ye. Hey, someone come here Catch him for me Why Oops, I was wrong I was wrong. I am not the real Dr. Ye. Please let me go. Leave me alone So brave Dare to come to our Mohist school to cheat It's none of my business I was deceived by him too. I just wanted to save grandma. I really don't blame you. We're tired of hearing you say this. I said the same thing last time Today, I still have this Do you think we Mohists are fools? Qingqing You are really Dr. Ye Of course I am the real Dr. Ye If I'm not the real Doctor Ye How come grandma is in such good health? Not everyone has this ability. I said I had seen so many famous doctors before. None of them worked How come I feel better as soon as Qiqi takes action? It turns out that he is the real Night Doctor. Qiqi, you are so awesome. Hahahaha seven seven Since you are Doctor Night Why didn't you reveal your identity earlier? Because I'm low-key You think I'm like you I don't know any Night Doctor. And you found a liar to come to Mohism to cheat you. Since you are not a miracle doctor How dare you prescribe so many medicines for my grandma? You want to kill my grandma? No No I didn't mean to kill the old lady. Lin Xue is right It was Lin Xue who supported me in doing this. What does he support you in doing? Lin Xue told me to just prescribe the medicine What's wrong with the old lady's eating? Even on Su Qi's head Lin Xue, my grandma is so good to you You actually want to kill my grandma You old fool You're talking nonsense. I didn't I don't have you believe me You're full of lies Who will believe you? Bixue, you have deceived us again and again You betrayed our trust in you. Go away and never come to my Mo family again. Grandma, I was deceived too. Grandma, I really didn't mean to hurt you. Enough Please get out of here. Sister-in-law, I really didn't expect You are not only good at drawing He's actually a miracle doctor. Hahahaha yeah Our Mohist ancestral tomb is really a The smoke has destroyed my Xiu Han I'm so happy to marry such an excellent wife like you. I didn't mean to hide it from you guys. Good boy, you are a low-key person. We all understand Oh yeah Qiqi, now my whole family thinks I am out of my league You won't dislike me, will you? You are the richest man in Beijing The appearance is also top How could I dislike you? Looks like I need to take good care of it. Lest I grow old and fade away You came with another rookie. You will grow old, so why won't I grow old? Besides, I'm not that kind of person. Qiqi Did you marry me because I saved you? That's just one of the reasons. Who am I going to marry? Of course, it depends on appearance, character and financial resources. You drink More directors than me What do you mean by this? You saved me back then too I wonder if you still remember when You must have been 5 years old then. Saved a beggar in Xinghua Village Do you have any impression? Stop bullying me. Believe it or not, I will beat you It's from the Su family. The little witch is coming Run, run, run! Bro, are you injured? I'm not a beggar I was kidnapped by bad guys. Do you know where your home is? Why don't you come home with me? I asked my parents to help you find a home. Don't worry, little brother. I will protect you You don't think I'm dirty Aren't you afraid I might have a virus? I'm not afraid. My mother can kill any virus. You are the beggar Well, I was kidnapped by my enemies when I was a child. Because of my family They don't dare to do anything to me Throw me into the countryside Your childhood was miserable. Fortunately, I have you Otherwise, I might not be able to wait for my family to pick me up. If you say that Then we are still related. Oh, that's not right Then you just happened to choose me when choosing a wife Isn't it a coincidence? What do you think? It seems that you had planned to marry me. We are each other Mrs. Mo Shaoshao Our People We have found evidence that the Ji family murdered the Su family. There is solid evidence to prove The fire at the Su family was set by the Ji family How many families? Their house was occupied by the loan company. Now the family is in a small hotel I want to see him Big Dragon Oops When can we move back to the big villa? Living in this small and damp place I got rashes from sleeping so much. Just stop complaining You think I don't want to go back But now we owe hundreds of millions of dollars in debt How to go back Oh, if you don't pay your debts I don't know what those guys will do. Blame Su Qi That scourge I said I wouldn't keep him. You have to leave him That's good. Bao Yi is here What's the point of saying this now? Do you think I don't regret not strangling him to death? Want to strangle me You guys really don't repent. Su Qihao, you are such a troublemaker I'm going to kill you Ah, son, son Suki, what are you doing here? Come to see my joke? What's so good about jokes? I came here today to see how you get your comeuppance. Our company is gone now. The house is gone. Living in this small, shabby place Now you are satisfied I am satisfied that my parents died with their eyes wide open. You guys are living well here. What can I be satisfied with? You really want me to pay for your parents' lives You killed God. Shouldn't he pay with his life? You don't want to kill people, do you? Do you dare Meng Xiuhan, please don't do stupid things with Su Qi He's just a country bumpkin. It's not worth it for you to do this Mr. Mo, Susie, he will marry you He has ulterior motives. He just wants to steal your Mohist information. I married you You hurry up and clean him up You are still trying to sow discord at this time. My wife and I have a very good relationship You don't need me to reply. Mu Xiuhan, you married a country bumpkin I'm not afraid of being laughed at by others. You should worry about yourself first. After all, your family is the joke now. Jia Yang My father and you were brothers. Why did you kill him? Don't spit blood. I didn't hurt your parents. Ah, you dare not admit it, right? Kiki Kiki Don't be like this Do you really want to kill the rapist? So many people are watching. Aren't you afraid? I'm afraid Except you, everyone here belongs to me. What do I have to be afraid of? It's as easy to crush you as it is to crush an ant. Even if Susie becomes a ghost, I won't let you go. Ahhhh You want to be a ghost? I will help you Seven seven seven seven Please let Minghao go. He really doesn't know what happened back then. I beg you to let him go. Seven Seven What Now I know I'm scared You let them go I work alone. I'll pay for your parents' lives. Die or die Our family now owes so much foreign debt Live like a street rat I might as well die. I'm going to ask you a question today. Why did you kill my father? It was your father who wronged me first Everyone knows my father's character. He is kind and honest I'm sorry for you It was obviously me who chased your mother first. He ended up stealing my boyfriend and marrying your mom. Do you think your mother is sorry for me? Jin Haiyao, you beast You've always had another woman in your heart. You kept Su Qi because she looked like that woman. Did you get my mother's consent to pursue me? She doesn't like scum like you. Mom didn't agree. But the woman I can't get Why did she get it? You you bastard You've always had him in your heart You never loved me The one you always loved was the country bumpkin yes So what? He doesn't have enough family background I'm better than you in every way. Beautiful and gentle And superb medical skills And you What else do you have besides family background? No wonder Qiqi's medical skills are so amazing It turns out his mother is also proficient in medicine. You beast I was deceived by you. My whole family was killed just because of this incident. Now that it has come to this There's nothing I can't say. Of course, there is more than just this reason He stole my most beloved woman. The business is not done well yet Can I make him feel better? His success only proves my failure. I can only feel at ease if he dies. Hahahahahahahahahaha I kill you I kill you Don't be angry at this kind of person. Hand them over to the law Ji Haiyang Yang Li You set fire and killed people We have now received solid evidence Ji Minghao, you are smuggling and selling contraband items We now have solid evidence Please come with us. Ahhhhh Seven Seven The mecha man has been punished by law Your parents can rest in peace. Qiqi, don't you want to drink? We're having a blast tonight Just that bottle can satisfy you You're unconscious after half a bottle Still one bottle is not enough But isn't it said that red wine doesn't make you drunk easily? You can get drunk on red wine You still have a fluke mentality when it comes to red wine cut Delicious cheers Don't drink so fast or you'll choke. Give me another drink Why is your face red? Are you drunk? Um Hey, why do I have two husbands, hahaha Oh, I didn't Pour me another drink. Stop drinking Well, can you pour me another drink? Hey, don't you like fish? I don't know why So I feel What's wrong? Qiqi, are you okay? It's ok, I just feel like vomiting these two days. Even the fish lover no longer likes to eat fish and feels like vomiting You are pregnant What pregnancy How about it See for yourself Really pregnant It seems so. Oh, that's awesome. oops Qiqi will have more severe morning sickness in the first three months of pregnancy After you get through this It will be much better Pay special attention to your body in these few months. Don't do anything yourself I see But actually my morning sickness is not very serious It's OK Sister-in-law, I applied for the pregnancy and infant major I'll help you take care of your baby when it's born. You really are not afraid of hard work. What are you afraid of? You and my brother's child That's my child. You and my brother are busy with their careers. I am the most idle one in the family. I'll do my best Nice words Wait until your sister-in-law's baby is born. Don't hide I'm not hiding. I still count on my brother and sister-in-law to give me pocket money. Ouch Xiao Han Pregnancy is hard for women You must take good care of Qiqi. Don't dare to be negligent. Don't worry, Dad. I know. alright Qiqi needs to rest during pregnancy Let's not disturb her rest. Then Qiqi, we will come to see you another day Mom, go haha Let's go What did you say to mom when you called her this morning? How come they all came at once? I said you were pregnant They all came right away This shows They value you Come and listen to what the kids are doing Oh, this baby is not formed yet. What can you hear? I can't wait to see him. Do you prefer sons or daughters? Can't we have both? It's not born yet. You just want the next What if they are twins? Twins, boy and girl, hahaha, no way Good Tuanzi, this is your milk powder. No, I don't want Baby is coming Let me play guns for you Are you okay, aunt? I want to ride a pony Baby, do you want to ride a pony? Come on, let me give you a pony ride. Hey, don't, don't, don't, don't Don't all of you come up. Ouch my waist Hey, what are you playing? Having so much fun Wanying is indeed a person who has studied childcare. You are so good at taking care of children. Hey, thank you How about we give her another baby? Please stop, brother and sister-in-law, I really can't take care of you anymore, help me