Welcome to Knarfy Labs, the top testing facility for the entirety of the Knarfy channel. Here, science rules, and along with his staff of highly trained science individuals, Science Knarfy is ready to conduct some of the most groundbreaking scientific experiments known to mankind. This facility is equipped with the finest scientific buttons and levers in the industry, as well as one of the single largest pieces of glass ever installed as a front window. Today, you'll get to experience some of the most innovative and intriguing science experiments the world has ever seen, suggested by audience members in a recent community post. Make it impossible for the players to beat the game. We did that, so yeah, success! Uh, on the first one, we're in a big container. You guys are stuck here. Uh... Knarfy's Discord server is clearly very ready. Ladies and gentlemen, let the science begin. The first thing we're going to do is, uh, pull the lever. Okay, how many people are gonna survive an MLG bucket clutch? Oh, uh, we got a few! These are the MLG gamers. These are- Oh, oh, oh. Get off of here! Get outta here! That was my first experiment. That actually wasn't based on a comment. That was just me curious. We might do that again, so beware. 100 players try to build a statue without communication. So we're not gonna turn chat on but you're all gonna get 10 blocks in a pickaxe So go. Alright, what kind of statue we got going on here? What do we got? What is what is this? This looks like crystal tower. Yeah, when you break the blocks, by the way, they don't come back So just you know, just be careful about that. Okay. Okay. I'm starting to see it I this is an arm, I guess is that an arm? Is that an arm? Yes. Yes, it's an arm. Okay. Excellent. That's an arm This is of let it's all it's all gone. There there's just people that are just breaking blocks. It's it's just it's all It's all gone. I blame you, Grian. It's all you, Grian. All your fault. Oh, yeah, uh-huh. Yeah We're gonna try this again Alright, we're gonna see if you guys can actually build a nice effective statue here See these guys are the real MVPs the ones that are actually doing what they're supposed to cough cough those guys at the window Okay. Yeah, what is what is this? What kind of stat? This looks like modern art, you know You know, this really speaks to the depths of the human mind. Don't you think Coolment? We've got enough of a statue here, right? This is this is modern art, you know toggle chat on so we can have them Name it what what is the name of this guys? Glorb sadness. Yep. That's a good one too. Flob. Jerry. You know what? I like Jerry we're gonna name this Jerry Boom perfect Jerry. Hey, by the way, if you guys didn't know up on the wall there There's this really cool button. You could press you could do that you could Make them build a house, but every single player can only put five blocks. It's actually the same button, so we're just gonna give them more blocks after this. So just be very careful. I'm so sorry. Uh, this next one, make them build a house, but every single player can only put five blocks. But I'm just gonna give you ten blocks anyways, because I don't wanna change commands. So I'd brag- pull the lever, Kronk! There it is! Yeah! Build a house! Please, please build a house. Oh, look at this! There's like a nice- oh, there was a door. Okay, this is a door. There's a door. We got a door. We got no windows in here. There's a nice room in here. Oh, hello! There is still a door. That is a successful door. The only thing we're missing is a roof now. Oh, there's more h- guys, we're building a full town. This is actually kind of impressive. This is a lookout, I guess. Awesome. Yep, there's an Among Us. I would expect nothing less. Uh, oh... Is this a house? Is that what it- no! I got stuck, so it's a floating house! Alright, you know what? Checks out. I think that works. We've got... Orange? Knarfy Fan Club! Oh, I like the sound of that. Where? Where is it? The finest architecture for Knarfy. I agree. This is truly the finest of architectures. We are suffering feed us! That's also a weird house name, you know? That's super weird. The Wow House. There's nothing here, but I'm sure I would say &quot;Wow&quot; if I could actually see it. I like bread! Hey, that's a great segue to the merch! Knarfy's father? Father? And we've still got our good pal, Jer- even- where did the sign go? Rest in peace, Jerry. Alright, well, subscribe to Knarfy- Sumo fight in a little arena with every player trying to push each other off the ledge So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna teleport everyone here and we're gonna toggle PvP on and the last one standing wins Don't know what you win, but you win something. Everyone's gonna teleport to me and we're gonna flip PvP on ready three two one go Oh boy. Oh boy. There it is. It's working. It really doesn't know what to do With all the punching It's so chaotic. Oh some people were dying there Oh no, the amount of damage that is being dealt right now. They're almost there. Who's gonna make it Who's gonna be the final one? I'm loving the lag where people just like hover in the air for a little bit I think it's really funny the intensity. Oh, there's two left. There's two. Oh FlorianFlame205 with the win diamonds. Yeah, diamonds are a great reward We need someone to turn off PvP because they're all just beating each other up and it's lagging What do you have to say for yourself for your epic win? I love all of us just gathered around in anticipation I need food, but I'm happy I won during my first time in my video. Yeah Let me fix the food problem. This is truly one of the moments of all time It's true I'm hungry hi hungry, I'm dad the pain it does not stop I require violence. Hey, man, are you doing okay? Oh, nope, there's Herobrine. Okay, smiley face. I want a friend &quot;Give an imposter a weapon that can kill everyone in one tap.&quot; Ohhhh! There's something! Hmmm! Very interesting! Someone has an item that they might immediately kill people with. Oh my gosh! Oh, it's that-- Hey! Hey, you might want to defend yourself because if someone else gets that, then they become-- Then they become the imposter. Oh yeah! Oh, there you go! Just get in there and just smack them. Yeah! It works! Your name is also red, so everyone knows who you are. Good luck! Oh man, it's a massacre! Your best hope, because that thing instantly kills people, is to just attack! You're being chased! Get him! Get him! Coolment is trying to be a friend! I think that there might be a mutual pact. This is a super cool looking skin, by the way. Oh my word. They didn't tell us anything else. They just said, &quot;Give an imposter a weapon that can kill everyone in one tap.&quot; That's the whole comment here. So, if the imposter chooses to not kill people, like that's completely the imposter's decision, so... Look at all these people being friends now! This isn't how Among Us goes! There's a cake party going on. This is the real imposter! Whoa! Anyone that's on the imposter's team go to the red platform. Yeah, anyone against the imposter go to the blue platform. And anyone that's impartial also go to the blue platform. That also means that now all of your decisions are locked in, and the color of your name is what you are. So, uh, good luck. Sorry, like, hundreds of players that are sitting in this box. Seems the blue players are having a tough time here. Who knew that this is how far this experiment would go? Look at your kingdom, your group. Someone has a wooden sword. How did you get a wooden sword? What? This is so interesting. What is the sign say? Fortnite? There's only a few blue players left. So, I think it's about time for a good ol' elimination of the blue players, if you know what I'm saying. You know what I'm saying, lab assistants? There's a lot of red players involved there, too. Also, that was the entire box. I just realized all the players that were in the box got blown up. Hey, red players win. Yay! Where'd the- where'd our imposter go? Did he- did he die? Well, anarchy. You know what that means. Um, the, uh, the- And impartial wins it all. PurpleShiny is the last one. All right, cool. Awesome. Love that. It could be cool to see if a hundred people could beat the deep dark and the warden. Are you ready for a field trip? Look at all the chat verification- YEAH! Hit the button! YEAH! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the deep dark. Where your mission is to get across this entire ancient city without dying. There are a lot of shriekers that will spawn wardens. So, uh, good luck if you, uh, if you win. Uh, great. Don't die. Let's ho- I hear so many wardens right now. Where are they? Oh, there's someone. There's so many people here, guys! It's all the way across this entire ancient city. You guys are gonna have to go. There's gold blocks, you'll see them. Oh, man. Oh, the chaos. Go, people! Go! Go to where the lab assistants are. Yeah! Go, GooffyDoodleBag! No! No! Oh, no! The wardens are camping the end area, it looks like. These guys are all just kinda hiding out in a hole here. Uh, lab assistants? We're gonna start hunting people. Hey, how's it going? Bye! How's it going? Oh, how you doing? Hey, how's it going? Bye. Hello, final remaining players. How's it going? How's it going? Goodbye. Oh, this guy's- this guy's running. You know what? Let's let this guy run. Oh, this is unfortunate. Oh, that was- Oh, that was- [Laughs] So this was the number of players that managed to survive the ancient city. Enjoy your time in the box. What if 100 players all throw down as many lingering potions as they can of any kind? From above, it would look awesome, and it would probably crash the game. The next one is gonna be very interesting because there might be a lot of particles and some of us might crash. So we're gonna see what happens with Lingering Potions! Yay! Woah! It's also incredibly laggy. Oh no. Oh yeah, hey guys, welcome back to Breaking Minecraft with your dumb ideas. Anyways, good luck! [laughs] How many people made it this time? Oh, a good chunk of you guys made it this time, just because the buckets all placed there nicely. Whaa- Can a hundred players ride a camel? It's camel time. The question is from the one and only CringyGull. Can a hundred players ride a camel? And if I press this bottom button, we'll find out. Oh, yeah, no, they can. Yeah, that's great. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, that's a... I like the one person on the front that's just like leading everything. It's very satisfying. Look at the number of like player heads. 100 players line up and sing Christmas carols. Smiley face, and cheese. Everybody form a line. Alright, and everybody just stare directly at me. Look directly into my eyes. Alright, so now, everybody go to General VC. See you there! Everybody sing Christmas carols is the plan. [Laughter] Christmas carols. [Laughter] I'm going back to the stage. Bye. That was something. Not gonna lie, I left instantly, because... [Laughter] You know, you don't see this every day. Here at Knarfy Labs, data collection is immensely important. Using our state-of-the-art platform voting technology, subjects can vote on their preferences. However, if the subjects choose wrong... Well, I guess you'll see. Our staff will now conduct our routine survey on immensely important questions. [Music] Would you rather have the blue be a taco, or the red a piece of pie? Taco or pie? Blue is the taco. Red is pie! Which one do you think I would choose? The taco sounds kind of good right now. Taco does also sound really good. I'm going to press a button, and whoever blows up was wrong. Still hasn't happened for me. Oh! Yup, yup. Which do you guys prefer? Bread or cake? Bread or cake? Bread is bread. Cake is blue. A lot of blue. Why do you think the way you do? Cake is just good. You know what? That's fair. Yum. That's fair. Cake. Doobie cake. Also subscrib. Bread is cake but better. Did he just say bread and cake are the same? - A European. Oh, hey! Who's that person? I ought to smack you on the mouth. You eat bread very often, so it's just objectively bette- I'm French so baguette. So bread. Excellent points across the board. All right, choose your side, Ferit. What's it going to be? Who's it going to be? I think the answer is obvious at this point. Press the button. If you are a true fan, you'll know it's bread. Always. You got to press the button. Now they're all going to run over to that side. Which is the button? Which is the button? Which is the button? You press the one that you want to explode. This one? No, that's the wrong one. Everyone dies. Everyone is wrong. Yeah, I totally didn't panic and press the wrong one. Siri, ask me a would you rather question. I love hearing it in the distance. Siri's useless. ChatGPT, come here. Would you rather spend a day building an epic castle in Minecraft? That's red. Or spend a day exploring vast underground caves searching for rare resources. Castles, red, caves is blue. You got to lock it in in three, two, one. All right, that's your final answer. All right, here's what I've decided. The cave. I'm a cave guy. Everyone, everyone died. Everyone died. They were all super spread out. Guess what time it is. Bye. Good luck. (laughing) Here they come. Pitter patter of rain. Oh man, a lot of them just landed in the middle. So we've done this three times, and I think this is probably the percentage of people that would actually survive an MLG bucket clutch. Very scientific. Science time. Sponge! Wow. Sponge science! Any other experiments you guys would like to perform? Come on, come, use that science brain. We should do this one more time. (laughing) They're all jumping up on the letters. Whoa.