This tiny robot weighs and can jump higher than In the competitive the previous record was 3.7 meters, enough to leap a single-story building. This jumper can reach 31 meters, higher than a 10-story building. It could jump all the way from the Statue of Liberty's For something to count as a jump, it must satisfy two criteria. First, motion must be created so, a quad-copter doesn't count because it pushes off the air. And second, no mass can be lost, so, rockets constantly ejecting and neither is an arrow The bow would have to come with the arrow for it to count as a jump. Many animals jump, from sand fleas to grass and they launch their bodies into the air with a single stroke of their muscles. The amount of energy delivered determines the jump height. So if you wanna jump higher, you have to maximize the The best jumper in the animal kingdom is the Galago or Bush baby. And that's because 30% of is dedicated to jumping. This allows the squirrel-sized primate to jump over two meters from a standstill. It has like very small arms and upper body and it's just like, huge jumping legs. It doesn't have better it just has more of them. - There are some clever jumping toys. (laughs) - I used to play with and when you deform a popper, you store energy in its deformed shape. Effectively it becomes a spring and then just like an animal in one stroke it applies a large force to the ground launching itself into the air. (whimsical music) All elastic jumpers of storing energy in a spring in a single stroke to jump. But none of the jumping toys we had could compare to this tiny robot. (bouncy music) - Of all the things that this is the most challenging. Because it's so small, and travels a huge distance on each jump. Each takeoff happened faster Now, jumping might sound but engineered jumpers would be perfect for exploring other worlds, particularly where the atmosphere On the moon with one sixth this robot would be able and half a kilometer forward. Rovers may struggle with but jumpers could hop in and out, fetching samples to And you don't lose much so if you could store the kinetic energy back the efficiency could be near perfect. The team has already started of jumping robots. Some of them can right they can take off again right away. Others are steerable. They have three adjustable jumper to launch in any direction. - Essentially, what we've done is we've added three additional legs that don't store energy to form a tripod sort of that and launch in that direction. - But how does this Well, the main structure of carbon fiber bound Together they create a the energy needed for the robot is a small motor, a string wrapped around the of the robot. So when the motor is turned compressing the robot the carbon fiber and rubber bands. After about a minute and a half the structure reaches maximum compression. How do you know like when to put it down? - Basically once the bottom there, sits inward and it can stand up, right now it would roll over. - Right. - Then you put it down. - Got it. - And at this point, a that's holding the string on the axle. So all the string unspools all at once and the energy stored in - The jumper goes from a standstill to over a hundred kilometers an hour in only nine milliseconds. That gives an acceleration That would be enough to kill - Watch out, watch out, watch out. - But how does it jump so much Nearly 10 times higher than Well, this jumper has three First, the jumper is incredibly It achieves this weight and battery. Plus its entire structure made and rubber doubles as the spring. Per unit mass natural latex than nearly any other elastic material, 7,000 joules per kilogram. And the design of the spring Initially they tried using to hinged aluminum rods, but with this design when to a peak and then decreases. Just feels like it all of a Another design with only carbon of force to get started, and then it increases linearly after that. There is more and more The ultimate design is a The benefit being it's over the entire range of compression. Feels like that needs a lot of force, and now it feels pretty steady with the amount of force Therefore it provides of a typical spring where force is proportional The researchers argue this is the most efficient spring ever made. - Sometimes a string will snap, it's not always consistent when it's supposed to. - Ooh. - There's a string cut, let me go re-string it. (fingers snap) I'll be right back. - You'd probably expect be better with a jumper, especially if the added rather than anything useful - So we're adding to our jumper and it's gonna jump higher. And the key is that we're You want your body, the part that's moving to weigh and when your body's lighter this energy transfer is very inefficient and you don't jump very high. - But the real secret to how this jumper can achieve such the researchers call work which can only jump using a an engineered jumper can store up the energy from many many revolutions of its motor. And that's how the motor can be so small. It doesn't have to deliver It builds it up gradually So the trade off is kind - Exactly. - And this is possible because there is a latch under from unspooling until the Interestingly, biological for example the sand flee, which can jump incredibly - It has a muscle that is attached, let's say right here, is right inside of the pivot point. So as it contracts that muscle the leg doesn't extend, right? It's actually closing it more, but then it has a second It's going to shift this outside the pivot point. That's wild. So there's these - Yeah. So here's your big power muscle, here's your trigger muscle. It's a torque reversal mechanism and then all of a sudden it shoots. - But even though the no organism has developed from standstill. At least not internally, spider pulling back a branch hand strokes stored in the catapult themselves forward. There's a spider that which they pull back to slingshot themselves So it's like slingshotting itself? - Yes. So they are called - Now I tried jumping they would help me go higher. - That is okay. - Okay Ooh. - And it certainly felt like they did, but Elliot pointed out they don't actually help much. - Like kinda build it, build - Okay. Only if you jump a few times of the previous jumps energy that energy helps launch you For years, engineered mimic biological jumping, it gained an advantage. If you can generate a simply by running a motor for a long time the power of the motor is no The spring is. So you can focus on making the most powerful spring possible. This jumper has nearly with this spring. Assuming an infinitely light motor with infinite time to wind with this compression spring is only around 19% higher than If you want to incorporate air resistance and play with aerodynamics another way to send make it 10 times to a 15 to 20% higher jump. - So we're in kind of an we still are getting hit by air drag but it's not as bad as the flee. If we went 10 times bigger we could actually avoid drag completely. - This works since if the on all sides the cross by a hundred, which increases the drag force but the jumper's mass So it has way more inertia meaning the drag force affects it less. The entire concept of work multiplication could bring robots to the next level. Currently motors and robots so they remain portable. But the simple principle of building up the energy from over time would allow robots to store and then release huge amounts of energy and set some world records in the process. (outro music) Getting this robot off than just engineering. It took a deep understanding And if you wanna take your I highly recommend this It's a website, an app Science and Computer They have thousands of lessons with exclusive new content added monthly. So they cover everything from the basics of algebra and graph manipulation through to college level content like Now I did my PhD studying how and unfortunately it's But brilliant gets around this You can manipulate simulations and visuals and you have to answer This is the best way to learn because it allows you to And if you get stuck there are always helpful I like to incorporate with just 30 minutes a day, and challenge myself And this is way better than So I encourage you to go to brilliant.org/veritasium on offer and see if there's Plus the first 200 people get 20% off an annual I'll put the link down in the description. So I want to thank brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.