Translator: Mirjana Cutura So, as a neuroscientist, I'm fascinated by how our brains in our dynamic and changing world. But recently, I've become really interested not only but what we're putting in the form of the food that we eat. Now, we all eat junk food. I'm not going to lie - But we know it's bad for us, It's so tasty, and it's everywhere, So, one of the things is how this not only now that a quarter of all young but also what it's doing to our brains. These foods are so hard to resist because they're rewarding, And when we consume these foods, our brain's reward center activates, Dopamine makes us feel good, So actually, when we our brains become overwhelmed with the pleasurable experiences So, our brain's pretty clever, and it adapts. It creates more receptors for dopamine. And what happens then to get the same kick out of them. Our brain is basically hardwired but we're building up a tolerance to them, so we eat more. So we're basically becoming sugar junkies. Dopamine is really cool as well. It does things that make you learn Because we really like them, so we see them when we're there feeling a little bit shabby. We see the doughnut, We're like, &quot;Yeah, (Laughter) And we just can't resist these things. But we need a part of the brain because, otherwise, we'd just be, for every meal of the day. The brain has an area This area is responsible It controls your behaviors in the world. It's also the last part and it doesn't actually fully mature And this means that when we think who are developing obesity they're finding it really hard to resist because their brain So, I actually do my research And they really like junk food (Laughter) What's great about rats is that they have and they have the same neurochemistry, so we can use them to study without, you know, So, in my lab, we've been thinking about how adolescence for the development of cognitive deficits So, I've been feeding teenage rats - so, rats go through adolescence with this highly sugary solution, which is about the same, really, in terms of the amount of sugar, all through their adolescence. And then I test them on tasks use cognitive control, What I've found is that rats aren't able to follow the rules When we ask them to press a lever be it an auditory or visual cue - what actually happens is they show impairments And we think about our population it's not surprising that, that these people are overeating But these diets don't just affect they affect the area of the brain This is the hippocampus. Now, when you consume these foods, And if your diet is really you develop a form of inflammation, So this is called neuroinflammation - so neuroscientists, and it's kind of like getting hives when you consume something And this is happening so it's actually impairing your ability because the inflammation the brain cells in your brain, This means that people don't perform as well on memory tests And this research actually showed that these people they were the same weight as the control people Research has also shown that people so, the memory center - report feeling hungry all the time. When I read about this research, I thought maybe they just (Laughter) But actually, the hippocampus for receiving fullness So we're setting up another vicious cycle where, if you're consuming you're developing obesity - because you're not getting So you're eating more junk food, This means that your brain can be reduced which is how these neurons to form your memories. But also, these neurons are born particularly in the hippocampus. This is called neurogenesis, These new neurons They form memories readily, We know that people from research with rodents - have got lower amounts of neurogenesis. But people with mental health disorders, such as depression, also have lower levels of neurogenesis, which again brings about We know that these foods are really tasty. They release dopamine; So if we comfort-eat these foods, we're actually then diminishing which is actually making us So that's kind of a depressing point. I'm really sorry. But it's really important of what we're putting into our bodies and how it's affecting And for young people, because this is such for learning about the world So when you're stressed out, &quot;Oh, I just want to comfort-eat and then revise for my exam But this isn't going to be ideal for your brain But research provides us that the brain is being affected by And so it provides us with ways I'm sorry, but you can eat healthy foods. I mean, fruit and veg They contain antioxidants. And these fight inflammation If you eat avocados and oily fish, these contain a lot of omega-3s, And by being active in your lifestyle, it doesn't just help you lose weight but it also boosts neuroplasticity So, I'm not going to tell you We all do it. But we need to treat these foods in the same way that our brain as a reward, as opposed to the major part of our diets. (Applause)