7 AM. The first thing that he does every morning is keep his family warm on the ice-cold morning Kirill needs a lot of wood to heat Just like a desert, drinking water There are no water treatment facilities because so ice is the main source of water. Kirill the river in the middle of November, when the temperature was favorable to harvest the ice. Meanwhile, Kirill's wife Liubov, breakfast - Kyercheh - whipped cream with a strawberry gem which was harvested during the summer. in Yakutia, due to the harsh fruits and vegetables, so most of the It's 7:40 AM and it's time for Arian, wake up! It's already 7:40 am! Wake up! Arian is 9 years old and attends the in Yakutia will go to school when it's temperature drops below -55 degrees Today is relatively warm in Yakutia, only -40 degrees, which means, Arian must go to school. Like most people around the world, he Arian uses the ice cold water How did you sleep last night? Good Any dreams? Nope I made a whipped cream for you Breakfast. fatty pancakes, and food that warms you up during cold days. Arian's older sisters are living and studying in the university far away from the village. His parents wish for him to study well Since we live in the coldest region on Earth, I'm trying to educate them to work hard. Every parents have to raise their children to be a good person.Who loves work, hardworking, honest and kind. In Yakutia, locals understand the importance of learning the right clothing to survive in such extreme winters.It is an absolute and wear insulated pants, because the Arian's mom always makes sure that Arian wears enough clothes because without proper dressing, the cold will reach deep inside She also makes sure that his face is Study well, see you later When we send our kids to school, we school safe. Every single parent in Yakutia is worries about their child, during cold winters The temperature outside is so cold, so icicles on his eyelashes. 10 minutes in the stinging pain in the face, and long-lasting But little hardy Yakuts knows how to fight the cold. after a few minutes, the icy weather begins to assert itself forcefully. Arian has been on his way for 10 min already, and now, the 9 year old Arian is freezing. Luckily, the last few meters are left, and Arian is finally at school. Arian arrives in time and there are already many children who have also arrived primary school. The primary school lasts 4 years and in Yakutia, education lasts 11 years before going to university Sit down, please, let's start our Sakha language class There are about 8 students in the class today and 5 hours of daily studying begins. What do you see in the picture? Field, Today they have Maths, Literature, Art, people study 3 languages at school - Russian, English and Sakha. Sakha is the mother tongue, which belongs to the Turkic group and For daily life, studying and working, knowing the Russian language is essential. After the first two lessons, it's time for Eating regularly is essential to increase energy in the cold winters for the little Yakut. After breakfast they play indoors. outside and after all, it takes I like going to school, my favorite we are training there and have hunting and fishing classes. We are running and playing... Usually, the classes end at 2 pm but today on his way back home with his friend they're can't ignore the local snack shop! Everyone likes ice cream and Arian and his friend are no exception. They love sweet, creamy frozen ice cream, despite the extreme cold. Arian and his friend, on their way home, Parents are not worried about their all the locals knows each other and there Almost all the houses are made of wood. meters on average every winter. For the house from the freezing air, they make but still the cold finds a way to come through. Wild Yakutian horses are also neighbors in this icy land. They have thick skin and heavy hair coat and are able to effectively forage in the snow for vegetation to eat. The horses can cope with temperatures down to -70 degrees. Arian is back home and ready to help his father. Most men in the village, are engaged in cattle breeding, hunting or crafts, same as Arian's father. I started making crafts from my middle school, when I was a kid my teacher taught me how to do it. So I appreciate him a lot, now I can work as a craftsman and feed my family. Mostly, I work with iron to make knives, jew's harps. I think every single man has to be able to make something by his hand. At least knives or dishes Kirill Petrov is well known craftsman in For many centuries, knives have played an important role in the lifes and culture of Yakut people Yakut knives are well known around Arian's father is teaching him this traditional crafts that has been passed through the generations. The blade is traditionally forged from locally sourced iron ore. The knife handle is made from birch wood, which is extremely strong. I want to be a craftsman like my father. Another of Arian's daily duties Now, it's time for lunch and Arian is always here to help his mum. They are preparing a crucian carp fish which his dad caught in Oh, mum, did you just mess it up? Seems like Arian's older sisters are studying in the is the only one who is helping us. Chopping wood, shovel the snow. He is helping me to cook as well. Sometimes he even encourage me to cook more. After the work is done, Arian rushes to the toilet outside. In Yakutia, there pipes freeze easily. Everything happens outside is done very efficiently and no one spends This fish is Arian's favorite. It's fatty and nutritious part is the fish roe eggs. So tasty. Of course its tasty. Don't forget to drink fish's soup. Ouch, its too hot. Eat it with bread. Where shall we go for fishing later? Are you going fishing? Yeah, this afternoon. Telgege (a lake name in the village) When you live in the coldest place on able to work hard. And hunting or fishing are one of the main sources to feed your family Fishing and hunting are important sources of food in Yakutia. From early spring until the autumn cold, the Yakuts are eating fish. the beginning of March, it's the perfect time for "Kuiuur" which is traditional ice fishing. Using their rods and nets, they start fishing. Arian loves spending time with his hunting and working hard to survive in this extremely cold, but beautiful land Yakutia. After a few hours, finally, Arian has caught fish! You don't need to worry about bonking the fish because in just a few seconds, it is shock frozen. Life in Yakutia can be difficult, unpleasant in harmony with mother nature and we appreciate the beauty, treasures and gifts that surrounds us. We can always find a beauty even in there is no such thing as bad weather, there is just weather and your attitude towards it.