- We're gonna talk about Say you're an egg cell, and outer glycoprotein coat and you've got your plasma And a sperm has made its way and managed to get in and merged its genetic You're now called a go on to form an embryo. But not much is gonna a single cell, and so what you've gotta do is divide into multiple cells, In fact, you've gotta do it so fast that you don't have time to grow. So you actually just split into two cells, and this process of is called cleavage. And you do this a number of times, dividing from two cells to four, and from four cells to eight, all the while staying So you've gone from 16 cells to 32 cells, and at this point you that somebody decides So instead of being called a zygote, you're called a morula. And morula is just a Greek And you actually do look a So here's a picture of a mulberry from my front yard to prove it. This one's not quite ripe. So you're finished with the cleavage stage of early embryogenesis. You've gone from one without growing at all, sixteen and then thirty-two cells. And now more interesting So you're still stuck So we'll draw it in here. And I'm not gonna keep track I'm just gonna draw them in. But what you'll notice quite compacted. I'm drawing 'em all right in the middle of the structure here. And they do look like they're a little bit tighter together, and this is a process that is called compaction. The different cells within closer and closer together. And in fact, the cells start to get a little bit different You notice that these cells on the outside are a little bit different. I'll draw them in here a And we can tell them of being able to tell different things is So here we have two separate This one on the outside, And this mass of cells on the inside we'll call embryoblasts. And so you're gonna We'll move on to the next zona pellucida here, and trophoblasts along the outside here. Another interesting thing is happening to those cells in the middle. They're starting to clump even more. In fact, they clump so at one end, leaving a little So here you can see your embryoblasts, this mass Some people actually call and it's left you with this cavity. And that cavity is called a blastocoel. Now again, you're starting more different than you have in the past, so we're gonna give you a new name. This structure that you've turned into, with a blastocoel and an outer cell ring of trophoblasts is called a blastocyst. In fact, we named this and after cleavage the process So also about this stage in blastulation, your zone pellucida starts Here I'm gonna draw little as it falls away and disintegrates. And that's gonna be important later on because you can't be stuck And the next step in blastulation, you actually just lose it completely. So now we'll draw our without a zone pellucida. But more interesting things Your inner cell mass of look a little bit different. So you still have this up at the end of your blastocyst. And you still have this but you've developed another cavity, and this cavity is called And also your inner cell has started to differentiate more. Now it's got this layer and the cells in this layer while the cells in the layer just above it are called epiblasts. Now at this stage, we're free of our zone pellucida, really important for implantation. But that's a discussion for another time. We're gonna focus on And I really want to stress It's not flat like we've got it drawn here on the computer screen. It's three-dimensional, a spherical melon. So think of it like a melon. Here I'm gonna draw a spherical melon. So now I want you to or a machete or something the melon like this. Here we'll erase the top and we're left with a flat surface. So now that you've got a picture yourself taking a right on top of this And that's basically what we've got here with our blastocyst and this forming layer of epiblasts and hypoblasts. It's really a pancake. It's not two-dimensional here. It's a three-dimensional disk of tissue. So we're gonna draw this without the outer sphere of trophoblasts. But we're gonna draw our pancake of epiblasts and hypoblasts. And what you can see here is So in fact, this is a in embryology called the bilaminar disk. And we're gonna get another So I'll show you, we're a little plane through the disk here. And if we take a cut that I've drawn, it looks So this is still our we're looking at a slice as opposed to here, we're bilaminar disk from the outside. So we're looking at our pancake of our bilaminar disk here, and we notice, we start to see something And that something looks streakiness that kind of splits You can think of it as pouring along the top of the pancake So here I'm gonna draw it on and then over here on that this little streak in the middle as it reaches And this streak of syrup on It's actually called the primitive streak, and the formation of the the beginning of the next and that's called gastrulation. Now what that primitive streak actually is is just the site where the of our bilaminar disk start to migrate. Here I'll draw the paths They heap themselves up right and then they start into this bilaminar disk. And they go out into the hypoblast layer, and they just kind of go But it all happens from So as the cells migrate out we can see that our structure Now instead of having two and one layer of hypoblasts, have now differentiated even a layer of cells on the as they go out into the and we still have a lower And so now you can see that we have, we actually So we have three layers, And these are actually So we have a single layer on top. And instead of epiblasts, as ectoderm, and our and our lower layer is endoderm. And cells from these three layers go off to do very important forms its own specific structures. So that process of the is called gastrulation. Once our three layers are to the next step in embryogenesis, and the next step is called neurolation. So we'll draw our three germ layers in. We have a layer of ectoderm on the top, in the middle we have a layer of mesoderm, and then on the bottom So this final stage in early embryogenesis is called neurolation. And as you might expect we're gonna see some neural And now we have our trilaminar disk with our three germ layers, the mesoderm, the central further differentiation of cells. And right in the middle we get this core that starts forming. And I'm gonna draw it as but what that really the primitive streak differentiating into a chord structure, and that's called a notochord. Now in humans, the notochord doesn't go on to do a whole lot. It does form part of the and very rarely it will cause But in general, its main is here in neurolation. Now this differentiated induces a change in the ectoderm above it. So here we get a change I'll draw that in as kind of a thickening of the ectoderm right here. And that thickening in Since it's kind of in section here, this is Now we have our notochord our neural plate formed. The next thing that happens... So we'll redraw our three layers here, our ectoderm, our And here at the bottom forming within our mesoderm. And right above it actually start to dive into the mesoderm. And as those neural plate cells dive in, they start to form a ring structure. And actually, since this is this ring is more like a tube. So you can picture this the rest of this pancake And as this neural plate into the mesoderm, it becomes Now this isn't a perfect is zipping up from one end little cells are breaking and going out into the mesoderm. Now these cells actually have and will go off into differentiate into their own special tissues, and these are called neural crest cells. So once we have the and our neural crest cells are and differentiating, and of what the ectoderm, our early embryogenesis is complete. So just to recap, we a single cell that was Cleavage happened. We didn't grow, but we split and developed into a morula. The morula cells started to differentiate, and we developed and embryoblasts in the middle. We formed a little cavity and After the blastocyst cavity a second cavity called the and a pancake of cells across Those cells continued to differentiate, and we formed a primitive streak. The epiblast cells dove and started to differentiate that became our ectoderm, And in the final stage development of a notochord to form, and the neural and formed the neural tube. Neural crest cells associated also went off into the tissues