The ocean shelters in its depths, mysterious animals. Among them a creature that one than by corpses. The sea serpent. These strandings allowed scientists of this bony fish, His head crowned with a ray forelock, earned him the name or more commonly Regalec. But for lack of having been able to observe him alive, almost nothing was known about its biology. Till today. off our shores, a world first. A unique scientific experiment, will accidentally allow to observe, study, and reveal of this unique creature. Until the beginning of the 19th century, the sea serpent belonged legendary creatures that and shaded areas of nautical charts. Its astonishing appearance, its size, aroused among sailors stories, superstitions. We would have seen him attacking the ship, they even deck it out with fearsome teeth, who made him look like In the 19th century, his teeth went thanks to the descriptions of the first naturalists. They definitely classified it, among the fish. Nevertheless, unpredictable and scattered. For two centuries, we have identified dying, dead or atrophied, on temperate coasts The longest ever recorded, was eleven meters long. Recently, by an incredible this giant fish would have in the Mediterranean Sea. In the south of France, the carefree Cote d'Azur. Its Yachts, its citadels, and these fine sandy beaches. More than 12 million swimmers to the pleasure of warm waters But who could believe, that setting up a strange off its beaches, bring back sea monsters? However, this is the consequence In the heart of the summer of 2000, the oceanographic observatory in collaboration with the biggest undertakes to deploy, an oceanographic buoy Its purpose seems more poetic It is intended to acquire data and pass them on. These data will make it possible to calibrate The color of the water, which varies is a good indicator So, in the spring, microscopic algae We are talking about planktonic blooms. Algae chlorophyll gives Here begins the vast chain To know the evolution buoy observations must be continuous, over several years. At the heart of this technical device, a passionate biologist. I am David Luquet. I work at the Observatory and I am responsible for the maintenance Also with tools it only intervenes in on the submerged structure of the buoy. Beyond that, he passes the baton to others To be at the heart of production the scientists decided to dock called the Liguro-Provencal current. Issue, at this point, the depth A heavy wetting overcome must therefore be filed. Lost in the vastness of the ocean, the buoy, its structure and its chain, serve as a point of reference for passengers, of the Liguro-Provencal current. The roofs of wrecks. The amberjacks. Pilot fish. And finally the cerniers. These fish live shallow water layers, sufficiently exposed to light Tropism of the buoy shadow cone, they find there both Most navigate by sight. Some come to feed on the algae and the little ones are devoured Others, finally, have specialized Collecting meal crumbs, or parasites of large predators, who visit the buoy. Including, the most dreaded. The great white shark. The shark was observed only Describing wide circles A small estimated population survives in the Mediterranean. What are they looking for here? 60 km from the beaches? Certainly others like tunas. But it has never been seen feeding there. And his stays are rare and brief. Every month, David expects when he comes to maintain the buoy. Its mission: to clean sensors The material is always so Securely attached to the diver for Risky dives. David is alone, without protection. In less than a month, algae colonization render completely ineffective the Each sensor has its own brush. Cleaning creates emitted in all directions. Waves that are perceived by They arouse their curiosity. Off these sounds spread along The fish do not know the man, so they don't fear him. Their curiosity is mutual. David under the buoy, it is the man facing the unknown. One day in April during the planktonic bloom, I had just finished my work, and I went down to inspect the bottom And there... I saw a very long silver ribbon The King of Herrings. The visiting Dark Ambassador, at the edge of our world. For the first time in the world, a diver swims David discovers that he swims vertically like sea serpents Strange, the tail Is it due to a meeting To answer this, we must be able to Unfortunately, the bubbles This accidental encounter is After a few minutes, returns to the aphotic zone, those depths where penetrate than photosynthesis To anticipate other meetings, you must already understand manages to detect and the immensity of the current Luckily for David, thousands of km from the buoy, a series of extraordinary events to reveal unknown facets In Japan, regalec is known as Understand, the messenger In a few months of winter 2014, more than a dozen treats have been filed on the shores of southern Japan. According to Japanese mythology, would announce by their strandings, These impromptu appearances, could never be correlated But offered Doctor Tyson Roberts, an unexpected opportunity, to conduct a systematic study This is a treat. It measures eight meters. It's the longest fish with maybe the smallest brain To prove it, he will use in a veterinary clinic. The Japanese provided him with a or MRI which makes it possible to obtain images, in two or three dimensions Applied to a regalec head, MRI allows you to make more images Essential for isolating the brain I would like to learn more about that is to say, as in humans, that secrete hormones For the first time in the world, exhaustive of the anatomy of the regalec. MRI images confirm This brain does not measure i.e. half A pea in the head. This is the size of a regalec's brain. Paradoxically, he controls and the longest digestive tract Better, x-rays from a scanner will allow to enter bony structures and solve a tenacious puzzle. How is the regalec identified Most fish sometimes use But at the Regalec, I looked at something and I have never seen nostrils, i.e. the ending Nobody ever mentioned or olfactory organs at Regalec. But with this great specimen, They are neither outside They are at the tip of his snout and can open Its nostrils are located Also to detect odors Regalec must keep and pump water constantly. In fact, it is likely those little conical slits, So much so that by opening them the animal gets an indication The consequence is surprising. The regalec is able to go up the track simply by performing pirouettes. If you smell a scent, but you are facing a given direction. If this effluvium is light, and you face another direction. You then open your nostrils If the smell is stronger, You go up like this by opening and closing your nostrils. It's a real part When his eyes don't see the regalec and his little brain and stay around the compass, Could it be the smell of the buoy? That of a food source? Or any other scent, emitted by a creature of the deep? To get to the bottom of it, you have to be able to dive where the light stops. David Luquet, calls on a specialist Italian cameraman Roberto Rinaldi. I really want but as soon as we left, a bit lost in the immensity of the sea. We're gonna be little dots and it's gonna be really hard To flush him out and approach him, he plans to use which combines performance and discretion. The recycler. Today, thanks to the recycler, we can We will recover the mixture When we film, we do The fish are accustomed With the rebreather, we have a lot to approach the treats. On the way to the compass, David suggests diving also submerged A weather buoy A sophisticated tool for measuring to supply data Under her metallic skirts, seems to attract fish more It's creaking doors in all directions. Nothing is left to chance. No more brief dives From now on, David and Roberto near the weather buoy Starting with dawn. They synchronized their coming with the peak so animal protein. Thus, if the regalec is well attracted or by the sounds of the buoy, they increase On the surface of the Velleles. They are not jellyfish, which drift according to For his first dive, Roberto but with a cane topped It is intended to collect in order to perform David in the first meters Roberto deep in rebreather. This is how the quest is organized These serpent-like creatures, are not treats, but salps. Filter-feeding animals who develop their chain of similar By less than 40 meters, at the limit of hot and cold waters, where their food abounds, they clone themselves and swarm. It's in this organic soup, that Roberto met, of all records. A five-meter giant. The greatest treat in its environment. The longest fish in the Mediterranean Sea. Its tail is not cut, like that of the animal An unexpected chance to seize before he leaves. To be able to take Roberto and his rebreather, will have to rely on their discretion. And wager on the curiosity of the fish. Curiosity of fish for man, and for the buoy. Surprisingly, smooth skin seems insensitive to this rough contact. Any contact. But when his curiosity is sated, the giant goes back into the depths. Soaked in its precious mucus, the scraper is sent at the University of Western Brittany. Eleonore Meheut tries to extract and compare it to the rare samples In fact, there is very little data in the litterature Clearly, we have a lot of things which would be based on specimens After a lot of bets we were able to extract DNA from the samples We found 10% variations, between different individuals It is extremely strong for It seems there would be and it turns out that our sample These data seem consistent who maintains that there is not one In Mediterranean, the regalec would belong Present in the waters In warm waters it is the species Regalecus russelii The morphological differences between On his crown, glesne has that russelii. The Breton laboratory is interested only to a more pressing question. What does the regalec feed on? We left on not being able to study we strive to study what we which carry within them Unfortunately, studies did not give us what we need, is to work on A mission that seems impossible. Take pieces but on several living treats. Another difficulty, Even at the peak of the planktonic bloom, encounters remain random. Weather permitting, divers on one or other of the buoys David's statistics On more than 120 compass dives, he has only seen a regalec twice. Luck does not exist. Meetings are getting ready provoke each other, and desire each other. A treat replied and he is not alone. In the vastness of the ocean, how can these offshore fish Probably thanks to their sense of smell. They still have to emit a substance with the currents. But what would this substance be? A pheromone, i.e. a product to attract another treat. Thus the regalec is able only detectable over very long distances. And when they are close, the treats would communicate What is his crest for? Obviously they look like specific to the regalec. The divers go To be seen by his fellows, adopts an astonishing posture, The cross. These static postures, should allow David Still need to be able And compel him to stay Not that easy. And with its little vibrating fin, He is able to go very fast. We could call it trap fish because but it does nothing And is it for a fish, verticality, like for us? For divers, going down is easy, but they risk accidents One solution remains. Go below the regalec. Over the months, David and Roberto, multiply the dives On each return to port, they send the samples However, like the first treat most have a truncated body. The white shark is naturally This time, the divers had the opportunity Doctor Tyson Roberts emits Thanks in particular to the multiple Regalecs frequently perform What does it mean ? It means that treats It's like a lizard when except that a lizard the regalec, he can cut the game starting with the caudal fin, and gradually cut long, short, And he can do this all at once And we can find treats Unlike the lizard, the regalec would not give up but for other amazing reasons. autotomy, the number of times it is performed It's a matter of saving energy. The regalec decides this metamorphosis than its gonads and vital organs. But it is very rare in fish. To date, it is the only To be able to prove this should be observed or find body parts might as well look for edges But near the village of Macerata, on the east coast of Italy, luck smiled on a geologist. In an abandoned quarry, Professor Patrizio Bonzi, just excavated a curious fossil about 2 million years ago, then reassembled by This is the only known copy. This is the part She is folded in on herself, The principle of autotomy, has therefore been engraved in ancient for eternity. Other clues, including could be brought thanks to collected fins Still need to identify now and therefore their lipid signature. There we will set two traps, one that will be on the surface for and another a little deeper like copepods. Like an underwater lighthouse, the light from the trap arouses curiosity Some gravitate around the net. Others come to find refuge there. By day, the peaches are lean. But when the trap morning collections These little shrimps are not This species, present in abundance would shine in the aphotic zone of the Mediterranean. Better, after analysis of the samples the lipid signature of this krill, is found in the flesh of the regalec. But at night, krill perform to approach the surface Thus, it avoids daytime hunters, like most fish But in its wake, Whose sight is suitable Among them, the regalecs. In an attempt to observe their feast, aquanauts must Offshore, in a rebreather, without any mark, and above 2500 meters You really have to be careful. And we don't have Strange Gelatinous Visitors in endless darkness. Like a super organism, these aliens from the depths are coming up For an extraordinary feast. It's the biggest migration In their stinging trap, krill, a promising sign. But where have the fish gone? Residents of the day? They seem to fear great And regroup. Same with phantom threats, David and Roberto get closer. To better monitor A moon fish. False alarm. Diving at night offshore is like a with the beams of light, we go we do not see the light of day. We know We see very little, but it's enough The king fish. In his clothes of light. Only the underwater lights, reveal its exuberant colors What use are they to him? To reflect the krill lights Mystery. A riddle all the more insoluble, that the fish ignore the krill. Yet he relaxes his mouth, like to catch The lights would disturb On closer inspection, tiny at will in the mouth of the regalec. Parasites. These are external parasites, who do not stay permanently internal parasites, allow you to place the regalec in to know its predators. At least that's the opinion specializing in the study At the University of Santa Barbara these are stomach contents to Sarah Weinstein and Anna Garcia, to make amazing discoveries. Parasites provide a beautiful information that we do not because these parasites have cycles across multiple hosts. For example, we found at least That's really interesting. 'Cause one of them looks like marine mammals After in-depth analysis, the University of Santa Barbara confirmed in the viscera of Regalec, would prove that this fish, is prey to predators Like sperm whales. Indeed, these large cetaceans are known, to be the hosts at the adult stage. nematodes that live arrives with the prey But the krill would also bring it But to date, no bioluminescent organ They are indeed difficult The lights emitted by most are so weak that we cannot This is the case with Regalec. Also, David and Roberto suggest by ultraviolet lamps. Abbreviated uv, which reveals the In particular the luminous lures By identifying fluorescent areas, organs are isolated could be revealed by an analysis Unfortunately, the scope is much less than that which nullify their effect. Exercise is both David will have to spot the treat then turn them off approach it very closely. Dared bet. Bet won! UV lamps reveal 2 organs one under the chin, These organs could but only a thorough examination could confirm it. Like miniature light traps, they would allow treats, to lure its prey. Its beauty can also be fatal, for divers. At some point I realized And I realized that we were When I looked at the watch, It is a trap of this small fish. The sea serpent is not which devoured the ships. Only her bewitching beauty It's up to the diver to conceal it, to say it better A rare animal. Harmless. And magical.