Hello everybody. Welcome to a new video. I'm actually a few hundred I'm in Istra. a house Village or a house display Village and That's actually not from Russia. So I think we should go and have a look at it. Let's go shall we. that talk about the different houses and this, Now the actual company is called wellhouse. similar to the one that we're going to go have a that's importing them from China to Russia and here it's actually in a very quiet place out in around and have a look at all the different houses made as modular homes for putting on land and Would you agree? obvious features when you look from the outside. is actually a deck that hangs off the front. a 40 foot shipping container all told. and it gets essentially craned in to wherever your can just see one underneath there where it would essentially made finished and ready to move move inside of course now the actual gentleman that's behind me so I've got a bit of free rain to have a thinks now the first thing they see when you walk there's an oven and there's even a range hood there's some cupboards so full kitchen. Now, there is actually a built-in projector which to stick around for that part but have a look a one room place there is a bathroom that I'll this could be a double bed that's all you'd wondering about the TV that'll be in a minute now. this one's actually a little bit bigger so the one there is actually a second modular section that a bedroom and then there is actually the Skylight beautiful blue sky here in Russia right now and of course there is actually other things going on open yeah there is actually other events and other but this little deck now of course depending little bit more of a view than what we have right Very nice. territory where we are here. So, again we've got that big Skylight and a small bathroom back here and then all of the a hotel that actually got the card to conserve actually got the lights and then the bathroom was a little bit smaller now being that it's tank here for hot water nice shower with the there's a cupboard here put your clothes. show you this other feature in just a second going to show us this amazing feature that there's no Television right now by the Which is similar to the Google home. and hopefully this and then hopefully just like come down and then slowly the curtains close gets slowly darker and the screen's just coming almost the screen comes on and the last piece of black out in here and then the screen will start playing so we won't really talk we not let it theater The Roof is just closing check that on your bed and you've got a movie night right cool well I think so anyway I think when we all realize that there was these closable curtains projector right here it's a little bit hard to whole idea of it but did you think that you could I've just stepped back outside again and it's anybody's everever stayed in a caravan or in There's obviously a lot of similarities or in modular kind of space ship looking concept stare at it and think about the possibilities. here in Russia and the fact that these Now, I'm going to get my friend over here If you know or might recognize He's going to give us a little bit of his He was actually on a video that I did So to see this tiny home here in Russia. If you are actually one of my This is the first one in Russia now I was do you have any more of these people bought them at this Village that we're here at to come maybe somewhere else in the world they exist I thought for the ending He's obviously the king of tiny houses in Moscow. What do you think of this? this future of houses in Russian uh and $50,000 USD. But I think after one or two years. More you think? Yeah, and I think it's. Becasue it's a little bit space station like. Yes, right. Rght, UFO. So I think both of us really like it. little bit too modern for Rural Russia. land in this part of town. Well I guess it's a personal thing. But let us know what you think in the comments. I don't know any other words that you can call it. But, yeah. If you like the video. That's the easiest way you can. I'm going to put his description Again non-scripted. this kind of concept as well. So I will put the information about Also I'm really rambling on a lot now. It's very hot., we're very Yeah, but we had to come This is almost the last place So yeah. My link is coming up right now There's another video on the channel If you want to check out, I'll put one there for you. We're off on another adventure.