Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we people struggle to find love. In a study with over 200,000 participants, attractive trait by men and women, genders, and backgrounds are looking for someone world's smartest people struggle to find love. If shouldn't the most brilliant people earn Unlike other attractive qualities, like confidence unique. If you have a good sense of humor, you may quick wit, your life may not be altered by your can radically change your interests, priorities, intelligent may seem, to the average person, extraordinary intelligence is usually a gift, odds with social trends, norms, and expectations, with people in a deep and satisfying way. harder time building meaningful relationships. that examined the attractiveness of people with with extraordinary intelligence found less still above-average intelligence. For example, the average person, were considered less desirable to everyone that these highly intelligent they made worse impressions on potential partners. people struggle to find love? What is it attractive to real romantic partners? you may be struggling to find love in your life. we'll explore the real reasons why your greatest 1. Destructive Analysis analytical and detail-oriented. They quickly and identify opportunities for improvement. These or an entrepreneur, but in a relationship, Many intelligent people think with their heads and anticipate all possible problems, playing out analyze your choices, and realize that the love isn't as predictable or logical expect love to make logical sense, there's a 2. Perceived Disinterest have rich inner worlds filled with hobbies, are heavily geared toward their passions and send the wrong message to potential partners. struggle to find love. The people around you may because you don't put yourself in positions to you seem to be more interested in bigger you're looking for someone to love. Are you critical of yourself? Do you have intelligent people are often hyper-critical zero in on their weaknesses, or feel especially those they perceive as attractive or underestimate what they bring to the table. someone truly great in your life. So, you because you don't think you can attract you're likely a brilliant but critical person, Take a step back and ask yourself. Am I want and deserve? Chances are you 4. Unrealistic Selectivity choosing romantic partners. They tend to have high so it makes sense that they have high expectations with shallow connections or surface-level and effort into something they know isn't going to with someone, it's going to be someone who is, Because of these rigid expectations, intelligent lives. They may also develop unrealistic closing themselves off to people who might In life, love often surprises us, showing we wanted or needed. If you don't give anyone a it doesn't matter how smart you are... you 5. Suspicious Paranoia people are quick to identify problems in their situations in which their partner hurts, betrays, of their partners and relationships in general. relationship-averse, often unwilling to While suspicion and paranoia sometimes help smart more harm than good. There's no such thing as a always a chance your relationship may not work out makes real love so meaningful and worthwhile. For many brilliant people, finding love isn't need the company of another person to give their being alone and value their independence... Some highly intelligent people like being a wrench in the gears. They don't want to disrupt nor are they willing to surrender relationship. If you're a highly intelligent chances of finding love. You may be single The good news is that love doesn't have can inspire and motivate you to think, work, and a loving partner will give you the space you endeavors. No matter how comfortable you are in in more ways than you realize. For many intelligent people, work comes first, around their careers and passions. They spend all they're productive and successful. As a result, It's common for smart people like you to you don't have time in your busy schedule for a over your dating life, or perhaps you use work as you always put your career ahead of your love but unless you make time for love, you 8. Desire for Control is under their thumb. They want to organize, lives, but no matter how hard they try, their There's no way to guarantee anything in love. is terrifying in its own right. If you're away control. You're accustomed to sitting in if you want to find love, you need 9. Lack of Relatability you often start by relating to a common interest, foundation of almost every relationship, interests or even understands how you think? people and one big reason they struggle to find the average person, so you have difficulty it's hard to fall in love with someone if 10. Competitive Damage to be highly competitive. This competitive careers and passions, but the same energy For example, if you get into an you may argue endlessly until you feel like partner's feelings by making them feel stupid, them with your constant desire to be right. a toll on your relationships. All this time, extraordinary intelligence may be the reason why. sure to subscribe because more