Chris Anderson: So two months ago, Can you talk us through this, because Gwynne Shotwell: I'll stay quiet and then I'll start talking. (Video) Voices: Five, four, (Cheering) Woman: Liftoff. Go Falcon Heavy. GS: So this was such With the Falcon 9 we can launch into orbit any payload that has previously We've got a couple of launches so this had to go right. It was the first time we flew it, and the star of the show, of course, brother and sister side boosters landing. I was excited. (Laughter) Thanking my team. By the way, there's maybe standing around me right there. And Starman. Starman did not steal the show, though -- the boosters did. CA: (Laughter) CA: There had to be some payload -- GS: Exactly. It was perfect. CA: Gwynne, let's wind the clock back. I mean, how did you end up an engineer Were you supernerdy as a girl? GS: I don't think I was nerdy, but I was definitely doing the things I asked my mom, who was an artist, how a car worked, so she had no idea so she gave me and sure enough, my first job was with Chrysler Motors But I actually got into engineering but because my mom took me and I fell in love with She was doing really critical work, and I loved her suit. (Laughter) And that's what a 15-year-old And I used to shy away but if that's what caused me hey, I think we should talk about that. CA: Sixteen years ago, you became and then over the next years, you somehow built a multi-billion-dollar despite the fact that SpaceX's I mean, how on earth did you do that? GS: So actually, selling rockets and making a connection When you don't have a rocket to sell, what's really important selling the business savvy of your CEO -- that's not really hard and basically, making sure or any concern, So I think it was helpful I think it was helpful to my role CA: And currently, is, I guess, kind of a race with Boeing to be the first to provide of actually putting humans into orbit. Safety considerations obviously How are you sleeping? GS: I actually sleep really well. But I think the days leading up will probably be a little sleepless. But really, fundamentally, of the system that you're going and so we've been working for years, actually, almost a decade, We're taking the Dragon cargo spaceship and we're upgrading it And as I said, we've been for quite some time. CA: So isn't it that there's one system if there's a problem. GS: That's right. It's called CA: I think we have that. Let's show that. GS: We've got a video So this simulated having Basically, you want the capsule You want it to get away from the rocket that had a bad day right below it. This is if there was an issue on the pad. We also will be doing on if we have an issue CA: And those rockets have another GS: Yeah, so the launch escape system It's an integrated launch escape system. It's basically a pusher, so the propellant system and the thrusters and so if it detects a rocket problem, Capsule safety systems in the past and the reason we didn't want to do that is that puller needs to come off before so we wanted to eliminate, in design, CA: I mean, SpaceX has made seem almost routine, which means you've done something that no national has been able to achieve. How was that possible? GS: I think there's a couple of things -- there's a million things, actually -- that have allowed SpaceX to be successful. The first is that we're kind of standing We got to look at the rocket industry and we got to pick the best ideas, leverage them. We also didn't have technology in our vehicle systems. So we didn't have to design that maybe weren't the most reliable so we really were able to let physics CA: I mean, there are other programs That last phrase you said there, what's an example of that? GS: There's hundreds of examples, but basically, we got to construct from, really, a clean sheet of paper, and we got to make decisions The tank architecture -- Basically it's like two beer cans one full of liquid oxygen, one full of RP, and that basically saved weight. It allowed us to basically take One of the other elements of the vehicle is we do use densified so it's ultracold, and it allows you to pack It is done elsewhere, probably not to the degree that we do it, but it adds a lot which obviously adds reliability. CA: Gwynne, you became President What's it been like to work GS: So I love working for Elon. I've been doing it for 16 years I don't think I'm dumb enough that I don't like doing. He's funny and fundamentally without he drives you to do your best work. He doesn't have to say a word. You just want to do great work. CA: You might be the person which has puzzled me, which is to shed light called &quot;Elon time.&quot; For example, last year, when Tesla would and he said by last December, which is definitely true, So what's the conversion ratio (Laughter) GS: You put me Thanks for that. There's no question that Elon but frankly, that drives us I think all the time does not yield the best solution, and so putting that pressure on the team CA: It feels like you play I mean, he sets these crazy goals but, in other circumstances, or set impossible expectations. It feels like you've found a way and then making it happen both to him and to your company, GS: There is two really important First of all, when Elon says something, and not immediately blurt out, or, &quot;There's no way we're going So you zip it, and you think about it, and you find ways to get that done. And the other thing I realized, and it made my job satisfaction So I always felt like my job and kind of turn them into company goals, and kind of roll the company over And I noticed every time we were rolling over, Elon would throw something out there, and all of a sudden, we're not comfortable and we're climbing that steep slope again. But then once I realized and my job is to get the company so he can push again then I started liking my job a lot more, instead of always being frustrated. CA: So if I estimated for Elon time to your time is about 2x, am I a long way out there? GS: That's not terrible, (Laughter) CA: You know, looking ahead, one huge initiative SpaceX is believed to be, is a massive network of literally to provide high-bandwidth, to every square foot of planet earth. Is there anything GS: We actually don't chat very much not because we're hiding anything, but this is probably if not the most challenging No one has been successful deploying a huge constellation or basically for satellite internet, and I don't think physics I think we can come up but we need to make a business out of it, and it'll cost the company to deploy this system. And so we're marching steadily along but we're certainly CA: I mean, the impact of that, of connectivity everywhere, and perhaps mainly for good -- I mean, it changes a lot GS: Yeah, there's no question CA: How much of a worry is it, and how much of a drag are concerns just about space junk? People worry a lot about this. This would a huge increase in the total Is that a concern? GS: So space debris is a concern, not because it's so likely to happen, but the consequences of it happening You could basically spew that could take out that orbit So as a matter of fact, we are required to bring down so it doesn't end up being So you really need to be CA: So despite of that Falcon Heavy rocket, you're actually not focusing on that You're doubling down called the BFR, which stands for ... GS: It's the Big Falcon Rocket. (Laughter) What's the business logic of doing this when you invested all that and now you're just going GS: Actually, we've learned some lessons over the duration where we've What we want to do is not introduce to convince the customers that this so we're working on but we're going to continue until there is absolute But we are working on it right now, we're just not going to cancel and just put in place BFR. CA: The logic is that BFR is what you need GS: That's correct. CA: But somehow, you've also found GS: Yes. BFR can take the satellites to many orbits. It allows for even a new class Basically, the width, the diameter so you can think about you can put in that fairing, and see really incredible things and discover incredible things in space. But then there are some that we have out of BFR as well. CA: A residual capability? CA: Is that what you call this? Oh wait a sec -- GS: That's Falcon Heavy. That's worth pointing out, by the way. What a beautiful rocket, and that hangar could just fit so you get a sense of size CA: And the fact that That's part of the design principle that you, rather than just you team them up. GS: It's exactly this residual capability. We developed the Merlin engine We could have tossed that engine and built an entirely new engine It would have been called because Falcon 9 is nine Merlin engines, but instead of spending a billion dollars we put nine of them together Residual capability: and you have the largest And so it was expensive to do, but it was a much more efficient path CA: And the BFR is the equivalent in terms of its power? GS: BFR is about, I believe, CA: Right, and so that allows you -- I mean, I still don't really believe What on earth is this? GS: So it currently is on earth, but this is basically I can't wait for this residual capability. Basically, what we're going to do and do point-to-point travel on earth, so you can take off and fly halfway across the globe. You'll be on the BFR for roughly and the longest part -- (Applause) The longest part of that flight (Laughter) CA: I mean. Gwynne, come on, This is never going to actually happen. GS: Oh no, it's definitely This is definitely going to happen. CA: How? (Applause) So first of all, countries are going (Laughter) GS: Chris, so can you imagine Air Force bases to take the incomers? Because we're doing it now, We're bringing the first stages back, and we're landing them So I think doing it, I don't know, 10 kilometers out from a city, maybe CA: So how many passengers of flying by space? GS: So the first BFR is going to have And let's talk a little bit Everyone thinks rockets and to a large degree they are, and how could we possibly compete But if you think about it, in half an hour to an hour, I can do dozens of these a day, right? And yet, a long-haul aircraft So even if my rocket and the fuel is I can run 10x at least and really make the revenue CA: So you really believe this is going in our amazing future. When? GS: Within a decade, for sure. CA: And this is Gwynne time or Elon time? GS: That's Gwynne time. (Laughter) CA: OK, that's certainly amazing. (Laughter) GS: I'm personally invested in this one, and I do not love to travel, and I would love to get to see leave in the morning CA: So we're going to test this out. So within 10 years, or, like, a couple thousand dollars GS: Yeah, I think it'll be between but you do it in an hour. CA: Yeah, well, OK, (Laughter) And meanwhile, the other use to go a little bit further than Shanghai. Talk about this. You guys have actually developed of how humans might fly to Mars, and what that would look like. GS: Yeah. So we've got a video, from others we've shown, and then But basically, you're going you've got a booster as well as the BFS, It's going to take off. The booster is going to drop low earth orbit, and then return just like So it sounds incredible, and you can see us achieve these pieces. So booster comes back. The new thing here is that we're going to actually land Currently, we land on a separate pad, Fast, quick connect. You take a cargo ship full of fuel, or a fuel depot, put it on that booster, get that in orbit, do a docking maneuver, and head on to your destination, and this one is Mars. CA: So, like, a hundred people taking, what, six months? Two months? GS: It ends up depending I think this first version, even bigger BFRs, I think it's a three-month trip. Right now, the average is six to eight, but we're going to try to do it faster. CA: When do you believe SpaceX GS: It's a very similar time frame It's the same capability. It will be within a decade -- CA: In real time, again, within a decade. Well, that would also be amazing. (Laughter) Why, though? Seriously, why? I mean, you've got a company Has everyone actually given that, I mean, who think, come on, so much technology capability. There are so many things on earth Why would you have this escape trip (Applause) GS: So I am glad you asked that, but I think we need There are plenty of things to do on earth, but there are lots of companies I think we're working on one of and that's to find another place If something happened on earth, you need humans living somewhere else. (Applause) It's the fundamental risk reduction And this does not subvert making our planet here better but I think you need and this is one of them. And let's not talk about the downer piece, like, you go to Mars to make sure That's terrible, actually, Fundamentally, and that's what makes humans it's our sense of exploration and learning something new. And then I also have to say, this is the first step and potentially other galaxies, and I think this is the only time because I want to meet other people Mars is fine, but it is There's work to do there (Laughter) I want to find people, in another solar system. CA: That is a big vision. Gwynne Shotwell, thank you. You have one of the most GS: Thank you very much. Thanks, Chris.