THE EQS: Mercedes Benz announced their new flagship to be the Tesla killer. It was fully electric, range as the Tesla Model S and the S Plaid. And to It was like a white snow fantasy with beautiful a few gimmicks like the hyper screen which they it's just 3 smaller displays under the same been a bit over the top, but for the most part, class name. And then, there was the exterior. it was ugly. In an effort to reduce drag and Mercedes threw design appeal completely aerodynamics. And here's the thing, when someone they very much care about how it looks, not just is probably the last thing they care about. And they only sold a total of 23,400 EQS sedans and in were one of the few people who bought this sedan, knows that luxury cars depreciate fast, but EQS just the first year, the car fell by 47.8%, for less than $50,000. For perspective, that's for an S class. Little to say, the EQS was the this struggle to transition to electric has at the same place it was 10 years ago, their stock importantly, they're tarnishing the Mercedes name Mercedes is completely ditching the EQ lineup. So, A NEW CEO: in deeper dives, interviews with insiders, and our free weekly newsletter. But anyway, taking a traced back to the retirement of Deiter Zetsche. that made Mercedes into the modern status symbol became CEO in 2006 right before the 2008 financial of a toxic asset, Chrysler, which for some reason to just how poorly Chrysler was performing, well was finalized. So, almost immediately, Zetsche from Chrysler, but this was just his first grand the 08 financial crisis and overtake BMW as little to say, Zetsche was a shareholder at Mercedes / Daimler, Zetsche decided to Ola Kallenius. Ola was no stranger to Mercedes. He but his upcoming task was unlike anything he Tesla announced the Cybertruck which garnered off the 2020 / 2021 EV boom. EV startups like Rivian was worth over $150 billion which is double Ola had an insane amount of pressure to not Mercedes relevant in the booming EV landscape. So, And they were not only electrifying vehicles didn't have on-off buttons for example. They all everything in the car had to be controlled using things like positioning the air vents. Likely the designs. They didn't have front grills and they that iconic light bar in the front and Teslas have just these EV startups that were redesigning specifically their German neighbors: Volkswagen. makes a decision, it flows down to Volkswagen, it should be noted that some legacy automakers things slow. But, as a new CEO with much to embracing EVs. We saw headlines like Mercedes Benz billion euros. With all this hype and investment, the next big thing, but what we got instead was THE EQ DISASTER: The EQS was just the beginning of the EQ disaster. out EQ variants of most of their best-selling and the EQE SUV. All of them had smooth front was especially problematic with super high-end This was a car that started at $180,000 and looked that there is something inherently wrong with you even like the design, and some automakers Lucid. The Lucid Air launched with the best drag not like this. The thing to keep in mind though over $100,000. These people are usually not fuel economy. They're looking for the most badass not it. Mercedes should know this more than anyone AMG which is known for its aggressive styling. like the Hummer, is known for being a big fat this about G wagons, G wagon buyers usually love demographic and giving them what they want. This with the Hummer EV. Instead of trying to GM decided to make it the most brash over the top that's so wide that you need a special license obnoxious 9,000 pounds. Now, the Hummer EV didn't appeals to such a niche portion of the population. It's the same thing with the Ford F150 Lightning. best-selling vehicle for 41 years, and Ford they kept everything essentially the same other The Lightning and the Hummer EV show just how well The EQ lineup on the other hand shows just how reason, brands like Mercedes went down the path be paired with modernization efforts. And to put Priuses with insane interior quality and design. Despite the early red flags though, Mercedes kept the electric G wagon or the EQG. The G wagon is we previously mentioned, one of its core selling fuel efficiency. If you take these factors is what Mercedes eventually came up with. It was as it still retained the essence of a G. With weird quirks like the square wheel case in the wasn't clear how many AMG G63 fans would actually the good news. The original EQG was revealed slated to come out till late 2024, so Mercedes had their other EQ vehicles and completely shift DITCHING EQ: Mercedes has tried to keep the fact that they're For one, they don't want to admit that the EQ backtracking. And two, they don't want to drive they're trying to quietly walk away from EQ ago in the form of rumors from Mercedes dealers would soon be phased out. And just a month ago, turned out. For starters, it's no longer even the G580 with EQ technology. Also, Mercedes has longer gonna be the futuristic silver and black. white, blue, grey, and a sand color. Also, but is even offering customers the option to you know the flat grill section? Well, it can grill and front bumper. Also, you know the weird regular circular wheel case with an actual spare the option to buy a regular G550 that just happens be much more reassuring. "Now do this with all life." "Definitely a smart move, will lower their aren't off-roading them so the range won't matter. might harm them long term but I don't think it's that the few negative comments we're still seeing front and the square wheel case. "The front bothers me the rear spare tire/wheel is just for have also confirmed that they are taking feedback probably why they're doing a facelift for the EQS grill. Looking forward though, they still have a entire fleet in a tasteful manner. Mercedes is for the EQS in 2028, so EQ vehicles will probably at least Mercedes is acknowledging their and that is what happened with the Mercedes Benz car designs? Comment that down below. Also, if check out our bond investing platform