The origin of the first generation of Pokemon real life bug catching, trademark difficulties, expectations of Nintendo, who didn't understand To get the full picture, we have to go all named Satoshi Tajiri developed a fascination western Tokyo suburb called Machida, where He enjoyed exploring the rural parts, such On his adventures, Satoshi searched for insects, There was something about the way they moved He studied all the creatures he brought home For example, most of the other kids would the idea of putting a stone under a tree, like sleeping under stones. It made finding them a breeze and as a result, his friends. Little discoveries like that excited him each His bug catching skills also earned him the kids. Aside from exploring his neighborhood, Satoshi in manga. He stated in an interview with Time Magazine be making anime. Satoshi also frequented the local arcade halls Space Invaders, which got him more interested Back then, there was barely any games media, Therefore, he took reins into his own hands the time he started going to college. The magazine was completely handwritten and It featured secret tips and tricks on how specialist bookstores for Y=200. The most popular issue managed to sell over already had a real business going. One of the people that bought the magazine become the primary character designer and Ken enjoyed reading the magazine and got in an illustrator. From then on, the pair collaborated on Game They quickly became friends and bonded over One day, Ken and Satoshi talked about how themselves what they would do differently game. Some of the other people reading the fan-made game development tools. "Pretty soon I had some contributors, and The more I learned about games, the more frustrated I could tell a good game from a bad game. My conclusion was: let's make our own games." By the time Game Freak started developing changed. A place that was once rich with rivers and facilities, office buildings and stores. Satoshi thought about all the kids who were mysterious creatures. It was this line of thinking that sparked In the face of more and more urbanization, for kids these days to feel that sensation locations and discovering the local critters This, combined with his favorite activities laid the groundwork for the first Pokemon However, his idea didn't completely click The link cable capabilities of Nintendo's fit for Pokemon. Satoshi visualized actual living organisms Furthermore, once Satoshi saw the success RPG for the Game Boy, he was convinced that not only possible on the Game Boy, but that dream game to life. Soon after, Satoshi and Ken officially founded on Pokemon began in 1990. The team kicked things off by creating a concept design sketches, as well as how the game would Interestingly, it depicted quite a different makes sense, given that Satoshi and the other traditional RPG-like game. For starters, the project's original name popular Japanese capsule toys called Gashapon &quot;Capsule Kaiju&quot;. It's this latter inspiration however that the name and they eventually had to change A common RPG trope, checking into a hotel Of course, players can still go to a Pokemon but it doesn't offer a room for the player Another clear difference from the final games This drawing depicts the main character trying be seen keeping Pokemon in cages. While there's an opportunity in the Gen at Celadon City, it's certainly not possible The document also features a Charisma stat, and an emphasis on collecting items like you Additionally, the included sketches show a well as the total amount of HP and TP each TP was probably a precursor for PP and most The drawings also depict the ability to sell was used before it was switched to yen. Not only that, it's likely that an early as well as an intelligence stat, as evident Surprisingly, the concept pitch also includes that was introduced for the first time in Speaking of the protagonist, an early idea in battles. The original player sprite can be seen holding "At one time, the protagonist would fight But then we asked ourselves 'If you can Pokemon?'&quot; The fact that features such as buying Pokemon in battles were cut from the final game, is Pokemon more like friends instead of pets. It was also around this time that Game Freak collecting aspect and less towards creating "When we were writing the text for the Pokedex, collect Pokemon. We felt a story about a boy traveling to fill times than a tale of a hero battling an evil An early sketch of the Kanto map can also landmarks based on the real life Kanto region These landmarks were later reworked into locations Fun fact: Pallet Town is based on Satoshi's The Pokeball, referred to as Monster Capsule from the final version. Its white and red colors are switched and of the side of the ball. Based on the sketch, it's speculated an Pokemon to fit inside their Pokeballs, instead Ken Sugimori, who led the design team, and Pokemon designs. Atsuko is actually the one who came up with Pokemon and many others. Ken always finalized each design and drew it easier for his colleagues to get a good render them the correct way. Both artists kept sketching more and more up in the games. The concept document confirms that over 200 in various stages of completion. Developers at Game Freak later confirmed in scrapped and that the total number was reduced This took a lot of effort according to Junichi a composer, programmer and designer. To facilitate this and make sure everyone the studio organized popularity polls every suggestions and offer feedback. The general look of all Pokemon also went At the start of development, most designs resembling Dinosaur like monsters so it's ever designed were Rhydon, Clefairy, and Lapras. Lots of designs were also created with specific envisioned Pokemon living alongside humans Along the way, the developers discovered that weak and strong Pokemon. It was clear they needed to introduce more battles more engaging. Therefore, "types" were introduced to and now the artists started to think about and fire. It simultaneously added some much needed strategy Furthermore, it gave the team the idea to choose a starter Pokemon that's either An early drawing also showcases a Pokemon introduced in Pokemon Silver and Gold. When all the 151 Pokemon designs were finished all the attack moves each Pokemon could use. There wasn't an initial plan of which Pokemon Instead, the team came up with the moves separate assigned moves that would fit well with each Just this process of designing the Pokemon to complete. Nowadays, we're used to getting yearly Pokemon up with the popular formula of exploring mysterious way through all the gyms for the first time Additionally, the team back then was much at Game Freak now. Junichi remembers how only nine people worked "We could hardly even be called a company We were just almost like a college club or would just gather and hang out. They'd come to work whenever they want, Some people would be sleeping over, because Something the team focused on from the very Most other developers were using the Game saw it as a way to exchange data between players. While he likes competition too, he explained is very Japanese and he wanted to translate Implementing trading would unfortunately become development, since it was only possible to Game Boys. Junichi admits that the technology just wasn't happen anyway. A staple of Pokemon games is that every generation didn't come from Game Freak themselves. The developers were thinking of how to make immediately come up with the right idea. When Satoshi went to Nintendo to talk about of Mario, Shigeru Miyamoto, suggested creating to catch so people would be motivated to trade Rare and Legendary Pokemon that are more the same reason. With an emphasis on interactive communication instead of pets, it's no surprise that Satoshi in video games, which is why Pokemon faint When a Pokemon runs out of HP, Satoshi was that the Pokemon is still alive through the "I think that young people playing games They start to lose and say, &quot;I'm dying.&quot; It's not right for kids to think about the They need to treat death with more respect." There was one extremely stressful moment during of work and perhaps even prevented Pokemon The original games were developed on Unix but the devs learned how to deal with it without Except for one time after about four years a very bad crash. Nobody at the studio knew what to do or how the main character, the map and pretty much point. Junichi recalls thinking that if they can't After contacting the old company he used to reading multiple books about the Unix machines, figured out how to recover the data. The soundtrack, sound effects and Pokemon To accomplish this, he used his Commodore to the Game Boy with software he had written With only four available sound channels to to compose a memorable and fitting soundtrack cries for each Pokemon. Near the end of development in 1996, the team their games on the Game Boy. The console was almost seven years old at in Japan, the Game Boy was on a steep decline. It was so bad in fact, that when the team friends would sound surprised and comment well. Even Nintendo had its doubts about the project Earlier on in development, Satoshi was even the concept of the game and the appeal of Furthermore, there was a notion in the Japanese by a Japanese company may not sell well overseas releasing it outside of Japan at the time. It's safe to say that both Game Freak and from Satoshi's Pocket Monsters. Selling a million units for example would After six long years, Pokemon Red &amp; Pokemon February 27, 1996 in Japan. That day, the whole team went to different they could tell it was actually selling fairly Of course, without social media or the internet people were actually enjoying it and what Pretty soon however, the developers saw deposits were selling even better than they expected. Not long after, newspapers articles were saying with kids and its popularity quickly started "It wasn't until later when you started series. Oh, there's going to be a card game. Now there's a manga weekly publication." When those things expanded into this multimedia like, "Oh wow, this is a big deal now."" The overwhelming success of Red and Green an improved version called Pokemon Blue and of CoroCoro Comic in October 1996. It removed a number of bugs and featured graphical for all the Pokemon and more. Unsurprisingly, Blue was used as the basis one is responsible for Switching Pokemon "Originally, it was kind of based on how The clearest split for us was between red abroad, it was clear that wasn't the case. In America in particular, it's red and blue will." Localizing Pokemon was by far the biggest with and this all came down to capacity. Squeezing all 151 Pokemon into the original had to use clever techniques to make everything Unfortunately, the team discovered that English Junichi admitted they hadn't really considered things like Pokemon names, the name entry designed in Japanese, was far more difficult Before the games would take America by storm, weeks prior and proved to be a smart strategic as a universe. After eight years since development officially released in North America and soon in the global unforeseen success. In 1997, it was already the best selling game with 3.65 million copies sold. The games duplicated that achievement in the copies. Estimated total worldwide sales reached over of Pokemon games alone. An important contributing factor for these buying both versions available to them. What began as a way to motivate players to boost. Junichi Masuda recalls the ridiculous amount wanted to make Pokemon merchandise once the And while the games certainly generate a lot that catapulted Pokemon to the highest-grossing The global success of the Anime also prompted the first generation of games called Pokemon It was made with the purpose to more closely like Pikachu as the only starter, your rival Game Freak learned invaluable lessons during Green, which were both very liberating and Even though the studio had to work on other freedom as a young company allowed them to resulting in the team solely focusing on being single idea that came to mind. Despite numerous aspects potentially holding way beyond Game Freak's and Nintendo's Satoshi's original vision of exploration chord with both kids and adults and continues "When you're a kid and get your first bike, before. That's like Pokemon. Everybody shares the same experience, but And you can do that. Receiving a bicycle as a present, catching all of these experiences that I felt were I guess that's why people all around the world