- [Steve] This is a strip That means I can slice it into two pieces, and then with the application push the two pieces together, and it'll become, once again, one single piece. At first, you might think, &quot;Well, that's not so unusual, &quot;like, if I took a strip of Blu Tack &quot;and slice that into two pieces, &quot;and then press those two pieces together, &quot;I would, once again, &quot;have a single piece of Blu Tack.&quot; You might also say, &quot;Look, if I have two droplets of water, &quot;and I push them together, &quot;they become a single droplet of water.&quot; The difference between Blu Tack and this self-healing polymer is that, well, Blu Tack is sticky, it sticks to my hand, it sticks to a wall, it sticks to the back of this picture of Patrick Stewart. So, it's not surprising that Blu Tack sticks to itself, but this polymer isn't sticky. The same goes for droplets of water, they're sticky and they flow, because they're a liquid, so, we should naturally from droplets of water, as we do from a strip of polymer. We can actually flip this instead of saying, &quot;Why is this polymer self-healing?&quot; We can say, &quot;Why aren't other things self-healing? &quot;Why isn't metal self-healing?&quot; Like, if I cut this piece of metal in two, why is it that I can't just and it fuses back into Like, if you think about what's happening at the molecular level, a metal is a lattice of ions in a cloud of mobile electrons. So, if you slice this lattice in two, and bring those two ends back together, well, (chuckles) to me, that looks like a single metal lattice, so, why doesn't it become one? In the case of metal, the answer's actually it's oxidation. I've got some sodium metal here, which is soft enough to cut with a knife, and when I do, you can see it's actually but that doesn't last forever, it doesn't take long for that shiny surface to That's because the metal is reacting with oxygen in the air. Actually, the same thing happens when you cut any metal, it's just that that oxidation in the case of, say, steel, as compared to sodium. So, it's understandable then that if you took two pieces of metal and pushed them together, they wouldn't form one because there is a layer of oxidized metal in between. In fact, if you were in the vacuum of space, and then push those cut surfaces together, they would fuse together. We know this, because it's happened in situations when we don't want it to happen, at least, once. In April, 1991, the Galileo spacecraft was supposed to open looks a bit like an umbrella, but three ribs of that umbrella had cold welded to the and so, it couldn't open. This stuff is a bit different to a metal, though, because it's a polymer, so, it would be more like into two pieces, and then try to push In this case, clearly, they don't fuse back together. And I suppose that makes sense, like, if you're cutting then you're cutting through you're breaking bonds When you break a covalent bond like this, you're left with radicals, that's atoms that have they're incredibly reactive, so, we should expect the to react with molecules in the atmosphere, or if it was in a vacuum, I imagine, they would react in the substance itself, and so, that exposed It's not sticky anymore. If you press those two surfaces together, those bonds aren't going to reform, unless you can introduce quite So, why is it then that into two pieces, push the two pieces together, and it reforms into a single piece? Well, the full explanation it seems is hidden behind trade secrets, but there is some information out there. I want to announce this I'm doing on Monday, the 20th of June, but I don't know where Put it anywhere. Okay, thanks, Patrick. Not all self-healing and it seems that there are, at least, two possible explanations for what's happening with this one. The first is a polymerization reaction, and the second is a crosslinking reaction. A polymerization reaction that joins lots of small into long chain molecules, into polymers. It can also be when you take and join them together into and that's potentially what's happening with this self-healing polymer. When you bring two surfaces together, some of the ends of the are joining to some of on the other surface, creating longer polymer chains that span the break. Unlike with the plastic, this polymerization reaction can happen at room temperature, perhaps because when you're not left with or perhaps because of the Actually, that might explain why the polymer isn't sticky. If the catalyst has a high specificity to that particular and very few others, that would explain why The second possibility, crosslinking, is what happens when you have lots of individual chains, and you link them together at different positions along the chain. Like, for example, I've got and maybe I'm gonna join at this point, these two chains together at this point, and so on. Crosslinking strengthens a polymer. For example, I've got it's liquid, because the are able to slide over each other, but I can cause crosslinks to form between these separate chains by changing the pH. So, by adding vinegar, for example, I turn this liquid latex into a bouncy ball. It's interesting to think that before, I had lots of individual molecules, and now, I have one giant molecule, the size of a bouncy ball. And this is true for This car tire is one giant molecule. How does this relate to Well, when two surfaces of the polymer are brought together, chains on one surface, and chains on the other surface, come into contact, and a crosslinking reaction occurs. It's interesting that at room temperature. And it's interesting that the polymer is able to create bonds with itself, but not other things. It's interesting that it's not sticky. Whether it's a crosslinking reaction or a polymerization reaction, the explanation for why this substance is only sticky to itself, and not other things, seems to be in the molecular detail, and that detail seems But I'll keep digging, and if I find out any more, I'll tell you. Actually, there is a third possibility, but I don't think it's and that is micro encapsulation. You have these tiny microcapsules throughout the substance, and inside those capsules is some kind of glue type of thing, or maybe a catalyst, or something like that. When the material is damaged, it tears open those microcapsules, and the content spills healing the damage. You can buy something quite similar from a standard hardware store, usually, called self amalgamating tape, but the fusing isn't quite so good, but it's a similar idea. This video is sponsored by Wondrium. You may have heard me talk about The Great Courses Plus before, well, they've rebranded to Wondrium, because they do a bunch more stuff now. The service is now much broader, and it's much deeper than it was. They've still got those that they've always had, but they also have long-form videos, short-form videos, how-tos, documentaries, travel logs, things like that. The courses are more than ever before, but they're still presented by these really engaging experts, and the content is thoughtfully curated. Couple of things that blew my mind recently on Wondrium, Olbers' Paradox. Olbers' Paradox states that, given everything we the night sky shouldn't be dark with pin-points of light, the whole night sky should be bright, but it isn't. And the paradox is solved, interestingly, by the Big Bang. Another mind-blowing thing that I learnt, you can float a cruise the question is, how do you do it? I recommend you have a because there's loads of stuff for whatever you're interested in. The offer on this one's really good, it's a free trial, if you go to my special URL, wondrium.com/stevemould. The link is also in the description, so, get your free trial today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe, and the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next. (logo whooshes)