Koch Industries' got a lot of money, and that's their job as a corporation, to make more money. They're the apex predator, if you really want to boil it down. As far as for me, I've become the prey. (Narrator) Over the past few decades, the fertilizer they depend on to grow our food has become astronomically expensive. There's no competition going on. And it's really, really frustrating. (Narrator) just four companies, including Koch Industries, control more than 75% of the nitrogen fertilizer market, allowing them to drive up prices for farmers and reap record profits. And that's about to get even worse. (Reporter) fertilizer companies. Iowa State Auditor Rob Sand says Iowa taxpayers and Iowa farmers will suffer. This sale could create a monopoly in the industry. (Narrator) with taxpayer subsidies to create more competition and lower prices. And now here we're in a situation where we had all these tax dollars go into building this plant, and yet now it's potentially going to be owned by the very same company that the plant existed to provide competition for. (Narrator) that creates massive profits for multibillion dollar companies at the expense of the farmers who grow the food that feeds all of us, and how we might finally be able to fix it. (Harold) I've ever known, is how to farm. (Narrator) that sells fertilizer in northeastern Missouri. His farm has been in his family for five generations. (Harold) well, I'll come home and farm a while till I decide what I want to do with life. And I guess I'm still trying to decide. Let's go by the anhydrous plant first, where we store it. (Narrator) that's essential for many corn farmers, especially in this area. Right now, Harold's co-op gets it from Iowa Fertilizer Company, the plant Koch Industries wants to buy. (Harold) And so yeah, it's very important -- the pricing of it. You think, well, $50, $70 a ton of product -- well, that's not too bad. But that's in addition to the other $5 or $10 an acre for all the other inputs. You add that all up, pretty soon there's nothing left. I mean, you -- you've essentially done it for nothing. (Narrator) is just fertilizer. But it wasn't always like this. It used to be with fertilizer, there was lots of different places handling it. Anhydrous, we could buy it all day for $80 to $100 a ton. And, now it's $700, $800 a ton. (Narrator) making nitrogen fertilizer. Now there are just 17. As the industry consolidated, the price farmers pay has more than tripled, and profit margins for the biggest players in the industry doubled. All our big corporations talk about free markets, and we're just here to do the Lord's work. But no, they like a good fixed market, too, just like everybody. (Narrator) the state of Iowa came up with a plan to fix this. Former Governor Terry Branstad offered an Egyptian fertilizer company huge tax incentives to build a plant in Iowa. (Gov. Branstad) that a project of this magnitude comes along. The total federal, local, and state subsidy for this fertilizer plant, that's going to bring 165 jobs to the state, is almost $550 million. (Gov. Branstad) that's going to be here for 50 years or more. This, at the time, was the largest single investment of tax incentives into one project in the history of the state of Iowa. (Narrator) in the country in 25 years, and it was a real step towards creating more competition in the consolidated industry. (Gov. Branstad) The idea is we want to make sure that there's lots of competition in the fertilizer industry to keep prices low. (Narrator) Iowa Fertilizer Company has become the fifth largest producer and a key competitor for Koch Industries. The co-op I do business with typically can buy from that plant from $50 to $75 a ton cheaper. (Narrator) In December 2023, Iowa Fertilizer Company announced it was being bought by Koch Industries for $3.6 billion. What I'm concerned about here is we had a purpose for investing these tax dollars, and that purpose was to maintain competition so that we would have lower prices for fertilizer for farmers, and then lower prices for everybody for groceries. Personally, I think the taxpayers should feel like they're getting robbed in this deal. (Narrator) that the government should stay out and let the free market dictate the economy. What's driving the inequality? It's the government picking winners and losers, and stifling competition, stifling innovation and making poor people permanently poor. (Narrator) directly benefits from a lack of competition. Koch Industries entered the fertilizer market in the early 2000s. As other companies went bankrupt, the Kochs saw an opportunity to take advantage of an industry that was quickly consolidating. Over the next two decades, they bought up competitors, built new plants and soon became the third largest nitrogen fertilizer producer in the U.S. And this latest acquisition would make them the second largest. (Rob) And I think that that's a good basis for the Department of Justice to say, "No, we're not going to do this." (Narrator) That's because the Federal Trade Commission can block mergers that decrease competition. In the past few decades they haven't done much to enforce this. But the Biden administration is changing that. When President Biden came into office, he made it a top priority to make sure we were turning the years approach of a more hands off way of enforcing the antitrust laws. During that period, we've seen consolidation, huge waves of mergers and acquisitions, and all too often, we hear that as a result, our markets are not working for people, for regular people. (Narrator) Lina Khan came to Iowa in April to listen to what farmers, including Harold, had to say about what this merger would mean for them. My name is David Weaver, I'm a farmer. I cannot tell you how irate I was when I got my Farm Bureau spokesman, and I'm a member of Iowa Farmers Union, but I'm also a member of Farm Bureau, and it said that this plant was going to be sold to the Kochs. And it was like it was good news. And it stinks. It's awful. (John Whitaker) in the last ten years, that has driven competition. Losing that competition is going to hurt, particularly those of us in that southeast corner of the state, northeast corner of the other state, Missouri down there. It means something in dollars and cents in our production costs. (Harold) We need that. That's-- that's what you do. And so I would encourage you to be fearless and courageous, and do the right thing. Thank you. (Narrator) FTC's process for deciding whether it will block the Koch purchase. When we've done our review, if we determine that we think the acquisition violates the antitrust laws, violates the laws that say you can't do a merger if it's going to substantially lessen competition, then we have the chance to go file a lawsuit in court, explain to the court why we think the deal violates the antitrust laws, and then it's ultimately the courts that decide, should we let it go through, should we not let it go through? (Narrator) and it's going to take a lot of big swings to undo the damage of decades of unregulated consolidation. But the FTC has a real chance to make a difference here. One that could set a new precedent for how the government can keep corporate power in check and protect farmers. (Rob) in agriculture really, truly do see agriculture as a way of life. It isn't a job. It isn't a profession. It's part of what you do. It's part of how you were raised, and the idea that we are making it harder and harder for people to just be farmers and having that way of life, to me, as an Iowan and as a midwesterner, that doesn't sit right with me either. (Harold) or the world, it's not a big deal. But for me, right here in northeast Missouri, it's a big deal. If I'm the guy drowning, it's a hell of a deal. I'd like a life jacket.