I am going to turn myself by going through this window right here. Ah, (grumbles) huh. Okay, I'm good, oh, not good. I was gonna say I'm good, I'm not good. Okay, so you're looking at this window and it looks like it's turning around, except here it stops. Now I keep rotating, but the What is happening? This video is sponsored by NordVPN. They help you create the illusion that you could be anywhere in the world. Let me backup for a second. This is the first part What do you see? Well, there's a window and it's turning, except it So the window is That's what most people see except that's not what the It's on this turntable and This is known as the Ames window illusion. And I saw it on an old called the Curiosity Show. And I was curious. So in this video, I'm gonna than anyone has before. You know the window but a trapezoid. You can see this side here is much shorter than this side over here. And that is essential to the illusion. Also essential, it is but it's actually just with the same image on both sides. So now that you know exactly and what it's doing, can the rotation rather than the oscillation? I still can't. It still looks to my brain like this window is going back and forth. Okay, here's an idea. I'm going to attach this Rubik's Cube to the short side of the trapezoid so we can keep track of Are you ready? Okay. (dramatic music) Okay, the Rubik's Cube is going around. Everything seems normal. But now what is that? It looks like the Rubik's Cube but the window is There it goes, the Rubik's I don't even know what's happening. (dramatic music) Whoa, look at that. It looks like the Rubik's out in front of the whole illusion. What is happening? Okay new plan, I'm going to and I'm gonna put a ruler right through the middle of the window. And so we can't possibly be Okay, here we go. Okay, the ruler is rotating around, but wait now the window is The ruler is going through the window. It is doing things which I but that is how my brain is seeing it. Look, here we go again. The ruler is turning but right about here the but the ruler keeps coming. What is even like, how is this possible? This doesn't make any sense. But that is the way my It clearly prefers the illusion over seeing what's really happening, the continuous rotation. So why is this, how Well, it was created by And before becoming a researcher, he wanted to be a visual artist. So he was fascinated by how people perceive shapes and shading. And according to him, is that we're all used to living in rectangular boxes, essentially. You know houses and rooms where virtually all of the corners we see are 90 degree angles. Doors, windows, tables and chairs are full of 90 degree angles. This is called the But unless we're looking the angles we actually I mean, the images that are typically trapezoids of Now from extensive experience, our brains know they and right angles. So our brains use these strange shapes to infer depth information, which in our rectilinear world But not in the case of that our brains assume to be rectangular, hence the illusion. Now, if this carpentered well then you'd expect of rectangles in their environments to be less susceptible to the illusion. And to test exactly this, in tried the Ames window with 80 children, aged 10 to 14. 40 of them were living full of rectangular The other 40 were from where they lived in round huts with few prominent 90 degree angles. When subjects were seated 10 feet away from the rotating Ames 60% of the urban group reported seeing the window oscillating. But in the rural group, only So the results were consistent with the carpentered world hypothesis. The kids with less were less likely to fall for the illusion. But that's not the whole story. When seated 20 feet away the illusion was much more convincing. Now, 90% of all participants and there was no significant difference between urban and rural groups. That means something else must our experience with rectangles. In fact, you can get a similar illusion without any straight lines at all. This is the de Heer circle, when rotating continuously, it also appears to So what's going on? Well, both of these illusions make use of a technique which has been used by artists for centuries if not millennia. This is a painting from 1533 called The Ambassadors by It clearly shows two prominent figures, but there's also this Only when viewed from the correct position either of the top right or bottom left, does it become clear that a detailed depiction of a human skull. It's suspected that the painting was meant to be hung in a stairwell where presumably out of you would spot the reminding you of your own mortality. But if you were to look well, the skull would Anamorphosis involves making of an object. So to see its proper proportions, you need to look at the work or with a particular There are earlier examples like Leonardo's Eye by Leonardo da Vinci, which only takes its proper Clearly, Leonardo knew And some might argue at Lascaux France from 17,000 years ago provide the first examples Due to the uneven painting surface, artists would have had to consider how their animal figures from different vantage points. (dramatic music) Anamorphosis is also central to perhaps Ames most famous Ames designed his first And with one eye, from it just looks like an ordinary room. But when people move around the room, it becomes obvious that An Ames Room is constructed by taking an ordinary rectangular room and adding a diagonal wall Then draw lines connecting like corners, windows, and so on to the privileged viewpoint. Mark where those lines Then add a floor and a ceiling. If the projection is done properly, they will not only be Then connect the floor and ceiling with trapezoidal walls and (gentle music) Ames realized there are an infinite number of different distorted room geometries which when viewed from create virtually identical So our perceptions far from transparently representing external reality are constantly faced with ambiguity. And our brains below the have to decide which of we're actually looking at. One form of ambiguity Which of these masks protrudes and which is an impression? Only through motion does it We are subconsciously that indicate how close Closer objects are typically plus they obscure objects behind them. But we can play with these attributes in order to create situations Now I have been obsessed with getting the Ames Look at how many different Ames And I made them small There used to be a I never thought that Then I thought about the question, how could I make myself like the ruler that passes through the Ames window? And of course, then I would So it's been this holiday season, like we're living in a weird, surreal art museum or something. It needed to be at least eight feet on its longest dimension. It's actually made out glued, screwed together. (saw cutting) One of the challenges is because ideally it should So we had to bevel these edges here. (gentle music) So then I would twist that hang it to the ceiling and then jump in the Ah,(grumbles) huh, okay. So I'll show you some of the and you let me know, Do you see it oscillating or do you just see it I found lighting is really important. The lighting needs to be to convince you that it When the large side of the we perceive it rotating exactly as it is. But when the large side it is still larger in our field So our brain perceives it as closer and rotating in the opposite direction. This is why the window Half the time we're seeing and half the time we're as closer to us, even But how do we develop the ability to interpret depth cues Well, it seems to be an innate ability which forms very early in our development. They've actually shown babies five and a half months, and nine months the Ames window illusion. Do they see the window oscillating? And how would we know if they did? Well, babies have a well-known They look longer at things So experimenters first exposed them to an ordinary rotating circle. And then they showed them simultaneously the Ames window and a The five and a half month old babies showed no special preference But the seven and a were significantly more Suggesting they perceive it as doing something different, The reason I have been so is because I think it confronts one of the big Which is this idea that scientists propose competing theories, and is look at the data to decide The truth is there are many circumstances in which the same data could come from very To use a classic example, does the sun go around the earth or does the earth rotate on its axis? The observation of the doesn't in itself resolve that debate. Or to use more modern examples, when you make a quantum measurement does the wave function collapse or does it branch the universe? Is the speed of light really or does it differ and only As of right now the between those theories. And I think we can extend I mean maybe the Ames illusions are a good metaphor for life. We feel as though we can directly like a person looking into an Ames Room, but the truth is there of different geometries that You know these days, a lot of people are getting the same but coming to very different conclusions about the state of reality. So I think in that context, it's important to remember as a little rotating picture can fool our brains in So we should approach the world with a little more humility (dramatic music) Hey, this video was sponsored by NordVPN. Get a special deal for the holidays when you go to NordVPN.com/veritasium. Now earlier this year, I wanted to watch my favorite So I bought an all access But then when I went to watch a game, there was a blackout So I used NordVPN to set and watch the game from there. In the past, I've made documentaries that were free to stream but basically impossible to And VPNs offer the solution. They help you create the illusion that you were somewhere else. And with NordVPN, you get in nearly 60 countries. Plus using a VPN prevents from seeing the sites you visit. And this is something I when joining public Wi-Fis at In a time when everyone wants to capture as much of your data as possible, I think it's important to push back and minimize the amount of And best of all, in this NordVPN is offering plus four months free. Just go to NordVPN.com/veritasium. I'll put that link down in the description and use code Veritasium. So I wanna thank NordVPN and I wanna thank you for watching. I know you're thinking his but he's wearing a different Oh the irony.