Preface This book is the culmination of 15 years of on the subject of self-made millionaires. These pages contain the key ideas and strategies and thousands of articles on the subject of The ideas and strategies are presented in so that you can learn and apply them When I was a teenager growing up in Pomona, much money, my dream, my fantasy, was to be Lots of people have the same dream, I'm However, when I reached the age of 30, I was Then I did something that changed my life. I began asking, Why are some people more successful I especially wanted to know, How is it that become millionaires? This question set me off on a search for the I chose self-made millionaires as my focal special qualities and behaviors that were They had started with nothing and passed the doing certain things in a certain way, over What I learned was that in order to achieve kind of per- son. To rise above the majority, you must develop person lacks. The most important factor in achieving great It is the kind of per- son you have to become hold on to it. These 21 "success secrets" are the keys or not you make a lot of money. The good news is that these principles are almost anything you really want. Many of these methods and techniques will This is because they have been discovered I see myself more as a student of success--a teacher of great ideas--than as an originator I believe, as it says in Ecclesiastes, "There Since you are reading this book, I know that an extraordinary person, to realize more and Each of these success secrets will help you life that is possible for you. Enjoy the journey! BRIAN TRACY To my wonderful son, David, a self-made millionaire of the future Introduction: The Law of Cause and Effect life. These ideas, insights, and strategies have for millions of men and women, young and old, These principles are simple, effective, and They have been tested and proven over and you will take them and apply them in your We are living at the greatest time in all More people are becoming wealthy today, starting There are more than seven million millionaires number is growing by 15 to 20 percent each We even have self-made ten millionaires, hundred We have never seen this type of rapid wealth Here's the best news of all. Virtually everyone starts with nothing. More than 90 percent of all financially successful The average self-made millionaire has been Most wealthy people failed many times before they were able to leverage into financial And what hundreds of thousands and millions The iron law of human destiny is the Law of This law is simple yet very powerful. It says that there is a specific effect for For every action, there is a reaction. This law says that success is not an accident. Financial success is the result of doing certain, you achieve the financial independence that Nature is neutral. The natural world, the market- place, or our you are. The Law of Cause and Effect says that if you eventually get the results that other successful And if you don't, you won't. This law says that when you learn the success them in your own life, you will experience have accomplished up until now. Here is an important point for you to remember. Nobody is better than you and nobody is smarter than you. Let me repeat that. Nobody is better than you and nobody is smarter Get those thoughts out of your mind. One of the primary reasons for selling yourself success, is the conviction that people who you. This is simply not the case. The fact is that most self-made millionaires working at average jobs and living in average cars. But they have found out what other financially same things over and over again until they It is no miracle and it is no accident. And when you think the same thoughts and do do, you will begin to get the same results It is simply a matter of cause and effect. There are 21 success secrets of self-made Each of these is indispensable to your becoming The failure to apply any one of these principles your chances for health, happiness, and great The good news is that you can learn every over and over again, until they become as out. Just as you learned to ride a bicycle or drive a car, you can learn and apply them in your life. And there are no limits except the limits Now, let us begin. SUCCESS SECRET Dream Big Dreams power to move men's souls. --MARCUS AURELIUS THE FIRST SECRET of self-made millionaires Allow yourself to dream. Allow yourself to imagine and fantasize about Think about the amount of money you would All great men and women begin with a dream what they have today. You know the song that says "You have to true." It's true for you and for everyone else, Imagine that you have no limitations on what Just for the moment, imagine that you have all the time, all the all the friends, all the contacts, all the achieve anything you want in life. If your potential were completely unlimited, for yourself and your family? Practice "back from the future" thinking. This is a powerful technique practiced continually This way of thinking has an amazing effect Here is how it works: Project yourself forward Imagine that five years have passed and that What does it look like? What are you doing? Where are you working? How much money are you earning? How much do you have in the bank? What kind of a lifestyle do you have? Create a vision for yourself for the long-term The more clear your vision of health, happiness, it and the faster it moves toward you. When you create a clear mental picture of more positive, more motivated, and more deter- You trigger your natural creativity and come vision come true. You always tend to move in the direction of The very act of allowing yourself to dream big dreams actually like and respect yourself more. It improves your self-concept and in- creases It increases your personal level of self-respect There is something about dreams and visions do and be better than you ever have before. Here is a great question for you to ask and would I dare to dream if I knew I could not If you were absolutely guaranteed of success or long- term, what would it be? What one great goal would you dare to dream Whatever it is, write it down and begin imagining already. Then, look back to where you are today. What would you have done to get where you What steps would you have taken? What would you have changed in your life? What would you have started up or abandoned? Who would you be with? Who would you no longer be with? If your life were perfect in every respect, Whatever it is that you would do differently, Dreaming big dreams is the starting point The number one reason that people never succeed them that they can do it. As a result, they never try. They never get started. They continue to go around in financial circles, bit more besides. But when you begin to dream big dreams about way you see yourself and your life. You begin to do different things, bit by bit, life changes for the better. Dreaming big dreams is the starting point millionaire. SUCCESS SECRET Develop a Clear Sense of Direction on even the roughest road. A person with no purpose will make no progress --THOMAS CARLYLE TAKE YOUR DREAMS out of the air and crystallize Perhaps the greatest discovery in human history most of the time." The two factors that, more than anything else, what you think about and how you think about Successful people think about their goals As a result, they are continually moving toward moving toward them. Whatever you think about most of the time If you are thinking about, talking about, far, far more than the average person, who or her worries and problems most of the time. Here is a simple seven-step formula for setting a millionaire : area of your life, especially in your financial Most people never do this. Second, write down your goals clearly and Something amazing happens between your head Third, set a deadline for each goal. Set subdeadlines if a goal is big enough. Give yourself a target to aim at. Fourth, make a list of everything you can each goal. As you think of new ideas, add them to your Fifth, organize your list into a plan of action. Determine what you are going to do first and will do later. Decide what is more important and what is Sixth, take action on your plan immediately. It is amazing how many splendid goals and and delay. Seventh, and perhaps most important, do some- step closer to your most important goal. This commitment to daily action will make accomplish. Here is an exercise for you. Take a sheet of paper and write the word "Goals" Then, make a list of 10 goals that you would Write your goals in the present tense, as achieved them. Begin each goal with the word "I" to make By making out a list of 10 goals for yourself into an exclusive group consisting of only The sad fact is that 97 percent of adults never made a list of goals in their entire Once you have your list of 10 goals, go over one goal on this list, if I were to achieve on my life? Whatever your answer to that question, circle important goal for the future. Set a deadline, make a plan, take action on moves you toward that goal. From now on, think and talk about that goal Think and talk about how you can achieve that Think and talk about all the different steps This exercise will stimulate your creativity, more SUCCESS SECRET See Yourself as Self-Employed of my fate. --WILLIAM HENLEY FROM NOW ON, accept complete, 100 percent everything you will ever be. Refuse to make excuses or to blame other people Stop com- plaining about things in your life Refuse to criticize other people for any- You are responsible. If there is something in your life that you You are in charge. The top 3 percent of Americans see themselves paychecks. The biggest mistake you can ever make is to yourself. You are always self-employed. You are always the president of your own personal be working at the moment. When you see yourself as self-employed, you of highly independent, self-responsible, self-starting Instead of waiting for things to happen, you You see yourself as the boss of your own life. You see yourself as completely in well- being, your career, your relationships, other element of your existence. This is the mind-set of the self-made millionaire. Self-responsible people are intensely result They always take high levels of initiative. They volunteer for assignments and are always As a result, they become the most valuable They continually prepare themselves for positions the future. You should do the same. Here's a question: If you were president responsible for results where you work, what Whatever it is, write it down, make a plan, This action alone could change SUCCESS SECRET Do What You Love to Do to do, you'll never work another day in --BRIAN TRACY DOING WHAT YOU love to do is one of the great One of your primary responsibilities in life what you have a natural talent for, and then particular work very, very well. Self-made millionaires are those who have and abilities are exactly what is required Most self-made millionaires say that they "never worked a day in their life." You must find a field in which you can be that completely fascinates you, that holds of your special talents and abilities. When you are doing what you love to do, you energy, and ideas to do what you do even better. Here is a question for you: If you won a million to do what you are currently doing? This is a great question. It simply asks you what you would do if you you were free to choose your occupation. Self-made millionaires, if they won a million are doing. They would only do it differently or better But they love their work so much that they Perhaps the greatest responsibility of adult choices of occupation and career, is for you then dedicate yourself to that field. And no one else can do this for you. SUCCESS SECRET Commit to Excellence by the depth of your commitment to excellence, --VINCE LOMBARDI RESOLVE TODAY TO be the very best at what Set a goal for yourself to join the top 10 This decision, to become very, very good at life. Virtually all successful people are recognized fields. Remember that no one is better than you, and And everyone who is in the top 10 percent today started off in the Everyone who is doing well was once do- ing Everyone who is at the top of his or her field And what countless others have done, you can Here is a great rule for success: Your life better when you get better. And since there is no limit to how much better better you can make your life. Your decision to become excellent at what field, is the turning point in your life. It is the key to great success. It is also the foundation of high levels of When you are really good at what you do, you Being excellent affects your whole personality You feel happy and proud when you know you Here is one of the most important questions of your career: What one skill, if I developed have the greatest positive impact on my life? You cannot become good at everything right can help you the most and then throw your Set it as a goal. Write it down. Set a dead- line. Make a plan. And work on becoming better in that area every You will be absolutely amazed at the difference your life. This commitment alone can make you a self-made of your career. SUCCESS SECRET Work Longer and Harder --JAMES THURBER ALL SELF-MADE millionaires work hard, hard, They start earlier, they work harder, and They develop a reputation for being amongst And everybody knows it. Practice the "40 Plus" formula. This formula says that you work 40 hours per is for success. If you work only 40 hours (and the average you will ever do is survive. You will never get ahead. You will never be a big financial success. You will never be highly respected and esteemed You will always be mediocre working the basic But every hour over 40 hours is an investment In fact, you can tell with tremendous ac- by looking at how many hours over 40 you put There is just no substitute for long days Self-made millionaires in America work an Many of them work 70 or 80 hours, especially They work an average of six days per week, well. If you want to call a self-made millionaire, and after normal working hours. The self-made millionaire is there when the is still there when they leave. And here's the key: Work all the time you When you work, don't waste time. When you get in early, put your head down When people want to talk to you, excuse your- Do not drop off your dry cleaning, phone your read the newspaper. Work all the time you work. Resolve today to develop the reputation for This will bring you to the attention of people else you can do. SUCCESS SECRET Dedicate Yourself to Lifelong Learning for success in any field. --DENIS WAITLEY YOU HAVE A virtually unlimited capacity to You have more brains, ability, and intelligence on developing yourself for the rest of your You are smarter than you can even imagine. There is no obstacle that you cannot overcome, cannot achieve by applying the power of your But your mind is like a muscle. It develops only with use. Just as you have to strain your physical muscles to build them, you have to work your The good news is that the more you learn, Just like the more you play a sport, the better The more you dedicate yourself to lifelong even more. Leaders are learners. Continuous learning is the key to the 21st Lifelong learning is the mini- mum requirement Make a decision today that you are going to you are going to continue learning and becoming There are three keys to lifelong learning. The first key is to read in your field for Reading is to the mind as exercise is to the Reading for an hour each day will translate One book per week will translate into 50 books Fifty books per year will translate into 500 Since the average adult reads less than one hour per day, one book per week, this alone field. You will become one of the smartest, most profession by simply reading one hour each The second key to lifelong learning is to drive from place to place. The average person sits behind the wheel in or her car 500 to 1,000 hours per year. This is the equivalent of 12 to 24 forty-hour working time that you spend in your car. This is the equivalent of one to two full-time Turn your car into a learning machine, into Never let your car motor be running without Many people have become millionaires through This is why audio learning is often called the invention of the printing press. A third key to lifelong learning is to attend find that can help you to be better in your and seminars will enable you to save hundreds years of hard work, in achieving the level Make a decision today to become a lifelong You will be amazed at the effect that it has Lifelong learning can be a major factor in * Select a subject that can really help you field. Set a goal to master this subject. Make it a "do-it-to- yourself" project. Then, read on this subject every day. Listen to audio pro- grams on the subject. Attend courses on the subject. Work on this project as if your future depends SUCCESS SECRET Pay Yourself First if you cannot save money, the seeds of greatness --W. CLEMENT STONE RESOLVE TODAY THAT you are going to save and throughout your working life. Take 10 percent of your income off the top and put it into a special account for financial The fact is that if you save just $100 per you invest that money in an average mutual you will be worth more than one mil- lion This means that anyone, even a person earning and saves long enough, can become a millionaire Developing the lifelong habit of saving and It requires tremendous determination and willpower. You have to set it as a goal, write it down, But once this practice locks in and becomes assured. Practice frugality, frugality, frugality in Be very careful with every penny. Question every expenditure. Delay or defer every important buying decision The longer you put off making a buying decision, price you will get at that time. A major reason that people retire poor is They see something they like and they buy They become victims of what is called "Parkinson's meet income." This means that no matter how much you earn, more besides. You never get ahead and you never get out But you don't have to be a victim of Parkinson's If you cannot save 10 percent of your income, in a special savings and investment account. Put it away at the beginning of each month, Live on the other 99 percent of your income. As you become comfortable living in 99 percent, raise your savings level to 2 4 percent, and so on. Within one year, you will be saving 10 percent your income and living comfortably on the At the same time, your savings and investment You will become more careful about your expenditures, Within a year or two, your entire financial be on your way to be- coming a self-made millionaire. This process has worked for everyone who has Try it and * Open a special account for financial accumulation Make a deposit in this account, no matter Then, look for every opportunity to add to Begin to study money so that you understand Read books and maga- zines by experts on the Never stop saving, learning, and growing until SUCCESS SECRET Learn Every Detail of Your Business is nothing that can stop you from getting --DAN KENNEDY THE MARKET PAYS excellent rewards for excellent It pays average rewards for average performance for below-average performance. Your goal should be to become an expert in detail about how to do your work better and Read all the magazines in your field. Read and study the latest books. Attend courses and seminars given by experts in your field. Join your industry or trade association, attend top people in your field. The Law of Integrative Complexity says that greatest amount of information in any field If you are in sales, become an aggressive, The top 20 percent of salespeople earn, on bottom 80 percent of salespeople. The top 10 percent of salespeople earn even If you are in management, resolve to become If you are starting and building your own and tactics and try out new ideas every single Set a goal for yourself to become the very One small detail, in- sight, or idea can be Never stop looking for it. SUCCESS SECRET Dedicate Yourself to Serving Others you just help enough other people get what --ZIG ZIGLAR YOUR REWARDS IN life will always be in direct All self-made millionaires have an obsession They think about their customers all the time. They are continually looking for new and better anyone else. Keep asking yourself these questions, What What do my customers really need? What do my customers consider value? What can I give my customers better than anyone Why are my customers buying from others today, them to buy from me? Your success in life will be in direct proportion to do. Always look for opportunities to do more than Always seek ways to go the extra mile for Remember, there are never any traffic jams Your customers are those people who you depend This means that your boss and coworkers are products or services. Your customers are also those people who depend Here is the question that you need to ask to increase the value of my service to my Look for ways to add value to what you do single day. One small improvement in the way you serve financial success. Never stop looking for those little ways to Today, customers value speed more than they've Whenever a customer asks for anything, you These are the sweetest words your customers SUCCESS SECRET Be Absolutely Honest with Yourself Thought is the original source of all wealth, discoveries and inventions, and all achievement. --CLAUDE M. BRISTOL PERHAPS THE MOST valued and respected quality integrity. Be perfectly honest in everything you do and Never compromise your integrity. Remember that your word is your bond and your All successful business is based on trust. Your success in becoming a self-made millionaire people who trust you and who are willing to buy your products and services, and help you Your character is the most important asset your character is based on the amount of integrity The first key to integrity is to be true to Be true to the very best that is in you. Being true to yourself means doing what you Integrity is demonstrated internally by personal The second key to integrity is to be true Live in truth with everyone. Never do or say anything that you do not believe Refuse to compromise your integrity for anything. Always live up to the very highest standard Here is a question for you to ask and answer my world be if everyone in it was just like This question forces you to set high standards Act as though your every word and action were law. Carry yourself as though everyone were watching yours. And when in doubt, always do the right thing, * Almost every problem in your life can be resolved What are they? What do you believe in and stand for? Whenever you experience stress of any kind, one of your values. Whatever it is, resolve this very minute to in your life. SUCCESS SECRET Determine Your Highest Priorities and Concentrate Mindedly his ways." Do what comes --BRIAN TRACY WHEN YOU DEVELOP the habit of setting priorities be able to accomplish virtually anything you This core strategy has been the primary reason for high for thou- sands and even millions of people. Your ability to determine your highest priority it is completed is the primary test and measure character. It is the hardest habit to develop but also success. Here is the formula. Make a list of everything you have to do before Set priorities on that list by asking yourself Question number one is, What are my highest What do you do that is more valuable than Question number two is, Why am I on the pay- What exactly have you been hired to accomplish? Focus on results, not activities. Question number three is, What can I and only difference? This is a particular task that only you can If you don't do it, it won't get done. But if you do do it and you do it well, it business or your personal life. What is that task? Question number four is, What is the most There is only one answer to this question Your ability to determine the single most and then to start on that task is the key Finally, commit to working single-mindedly staying at it until it is 100 percent complete. Persevere without diversion or distraction. Push yourself to keep working at the job until The good news is that by continually setting value tasks, you will soon develop the habit This habit will then become automatic and in life. This one habit alone can make you a self-made SUCCESS SECRET Develop a Reputation for Speed and Dependability but a little bit more for the lavishings sake, all the rest. --DEAN BRIGGS TIME IS THE currency of the 21st century. Everyone today is in a tremendous hurry. Customers who did not even know that they People are less and less patient for anything. Loyal customers will change suppliers overnight the people they are already dealing with. Instant gratification is no longer fast enough. Your job is to develop a reputation for speed. Develop a "sense of urgency." Develop a bias for action. Move fast on opportunities. Move fast when people want or need something. Move quickly when you see something that needs When your boss or your customers ask you to it so fast that they are amazed. You have heard it said that "When- ever a busy person." People who have a reputation for moving quickly to them. They get more chances to do more and more a job when they get around to it. When you can combine your ability to select to getting it done quickly and well, you will More doors and opportunities will open for SUCCESS SECRET Be Prepared to Climb from Peak to Peak all the time thing. --VINCE LOMBARDI JUST AS A mountain climber who has reached climbing to another peak, your life and career As you've heard, "Life is a process of All business life is made up of cycles and There are up cycles and down cycles. Often, trends in business can lead to a complete We see this today with the Internet and the which are changing many of our fixed ideas Develop a long-time perspective. Take the long view in everything you do. Plan two, three, four, and five years into onto an emotional roller coaster with the Keep reminding yourself that everything in Be calm, confident, and relaxed with short-term When you have clear goals and plans that you line of your life will tend to be onward and SUCCESS SECRET Practice Self-Discipline in All Things do what you should do, it or not. --ELBERT HUBBARD SELF-DISCIPLINE IS the most important single a self-made millionaire. If you can discipline yourself to do what you feel like it or not, your success is virtually The key to becoming a self-made millionaire with an ability to delay gratification in the short term. It is your ability to set a long-term goal then to discipline yourself, every single do only those things that will guarantee that Self-discipline requires self-mastery, self-control, The difference between successful people and habit of doing the things that failures do And what are those things? The things that failures don't like to do don't like to do either. But successful people do them anyway because pay for the success they desire. Successful people are more concerned with Failures are more concerned with pleasing Successful people take actions that are goal Unsuccessful people take actions that are Successful people do the things that are hard Unsuccessful people, on the other hand, prefer that give them immediate enjoyment. The good news is that every act of self-discipline Every time you practice self-discipline, your You like and respect yourself even more. And the more you practice discipline in small things, required for the great opportunities, experiences, Remember that everything in life is a test. Every you are taking a test--of self-mastery, self-control, The test is to see whether you can make yourself stay with them until they are complete. The test is whether you can keep your mind than thinking and talking about things you past. When you pass the test, you move onward and And as long as you keep passing the tests, life. Success requires tons of discipline. As Jim Rohn says, "Discipline weighs ounces; SUCCESS SECRET Unlock Your Inborn Creativity --ALBERT EINSTEIN HERE IS SOME more good news. You are a potential genius. You are smarter than you have ever imagined. You have more raw brainpower and creative Your brain has 10 billion cells, each of which by a complex network of neurons and dendrites. This means that the possible combinations greater than the number of molecules in the Your ability to develop ideas to help you This means that your ability to succeed is Your creativity is stimulated by three factors: problems; and third, focused questions. The more you focus your mind on achieving the tough questions about your business and the better your mind works for you in the Your brain, your creativity, is like a muscle. The more you use it, the stronger and more You can actually increase your intelligence creatively all day long. And remember, creativity is just another word Every time you come up with an idea to improve faster, cheaper, or easier ways to accomplish level of creativity. Just as you develop your muscles by straining mental muscles by straining them as well. Here is an exercise for you to develop your Take a clean sheet of paper and write your at the top in the form of a question. For example, you could write, "How can I Now, discipline yourself to write at least Select one of your answers and take action on it immediately. You will be amazed at the results. * Write down your most pressing problem or your Then, imagine that this problem was solved ideal way. What would the solution or achievement look What could you do immediately to bring about Remember, ac- tion is everything! SUCCESS SECRET Get around the Right People except for the people you --CHARLIE JONES FULLY 85 PERCENT of your success and happiness of the relationships that you develop in your The more people you know and who know you will be and the faster you will move ahead. At virtually every turning point in your life, you or hinder you. Successful people make a habit of building relationships throughout their lives, and vastly more than the person who goes home Everything involves relationships. Virtually all of your problems in life will relationships with the wrong peo- ple. Virtually all of your great successes in life with good people who help you and whom you More than 90 percent of your success will Your reference group is defined as the people the time. You are like a chameleon in that you take of the people with whom you associate most If you want to be a successful person, associate Associate with people who are optimistic and forward in their lives. At the same time, get away from negative, If you want to fly with the eagles, you cannot Self-made millionaires network continually. They join their industry and trade associations, the groups' activities. They introduce themselves to people in business cards, and tell others what they do. And here is one of the best strategies of When- ever you meet new people, ask them to to tell you what you would need to know to Then, as soon as possible, see if you can Be a "go-giver" rather than a go-getter. Always look for ways to put in before you The very best way to network and build your to help other people achieve their own goals. The more you give of yourself with- out expecting come back to you from the most unexpected * Identify the most important people in your What could you do to help them in their lives you? Identify the people you should get to know. What could you do to help them in advance Remember, first you sow and then you reap. SUCCESS SECRET Take Excellent Care of Your Physical Health sound body. --THEODORE ROOSEVELT WE ARE LIVING at the most wonderful time in fitness. You can live longer and live better today You should aim to live to be 80 or 90 or even can do it if you decide to. First, set a goal to live to be at least 80 Then, look at your current health habits and are living today is going to get you to the There are three keys to living a long, happy, The first is proper weight. Set a goal to get your weight under control of your life. There is a five-word formula for weight loss It is simply this: "Eat less and exercise The second key is proper diet, and the key fewer of them. Eat more lean proteins, fruits, and vegetables. Elimi- nate desserts, soft drinks, candy, life. Stop consuming extra salt and stop eating Eat smaller portions and eat four or five When you can take complete control of your take control of your habits in other parts The third key to long life is proper exercise. This requires that you engage in vigorous per week or an average of 30 minutes per day. You can get all the exercise you need by going five days per week. If you are really serious, you should join for your house and work out even more vigorously. The key to excellent physical health and long levels of health and fitness. You must make a plan and then follow your plan every day. This commitment to health re- quires tremendous but the payoff can be extraordinary. If your financial goal is to achieve a net health goal should be to live as long as possible with your money. SUCCESS SECRET Be Decisive and Action Oriented so doing, end them. --WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE ONE OF THE qualities of self-made millionaires decisions quickly. They discipline themselves to take action They move fast and they get quick feedback If they find they have made a mistake, they The key to triumph is for you to try. Successful things than other people do. According to the Law of Probabilities, if the odds are that you will eventually find Unsuccessful people are indecisive. They know that they should do or stop doing or the willpower to make firm decisions. As a result, they drift through life, never They never be- come wealthy or achieve financial They settle for far less than is possible When you become decisive and action oriented, You get far more done in a day than other You move ahead far faster than the people You actually tap into a higher source of energy, full of joy and exhilaration. This positive energy then propels you forward your goals. SUCCESS SECRET Never Allow Failure to Be an Option --FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT THE FEAR OF failure is the greatest single Note that it is not failure itself. Failure makes you stronger and more resilient It is the fear of failure or the anticipation and your activities and hold you back from to do to be a big success. A young journalist once asked Thomas J. Watson successful faster. Watson replied with these wonderful words: must double your Success lies on the far side of failure." Dare to go forward. Self-made millionaires are not gamblers, but risks in the direction of their goals to achieve In fact, your attitude toward risk taking your readiness to become wealthy. Whenever you are faced with a risky situation, possible thing that could happen if I go ahead? Then, as J. Paul Getty, the self-made oil sure that, whatever it is, it doesn't happen. The fact is that everyone is afraid of failure. Every- one is afraid of loss and poverty. Everyone is afraid of making a mistake and But self-made millionaires are those who consciously anyway. Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote, "Make a habit fear. If you do the thing you fear, the death of When you act boldly, unseen forces will come And every act of courage increases your courage When- ever you take action in a forward direction diminish and your courage and self-confidence You eventually anything. Perhaps the best line from the movie Apollo control at NASA. When the people around him were starting to think about the possibility of losing the all together by announcing in a loud voice, Your job is to commit yourself to becoming made millionaire. Your job is to set specific goals for yourself, day. And especially, you must continue to re- mind and difficulties that you will experience, This is the attitude that, more than any- success. SUCCESS SECRET Pass the Nothing can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost Education will not; the world is full of educated Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. --CALVIN COOLIDGE PERSISTENCE IS THE iron quality of character. Persistence is to the character of man as It is the absolutely indispensable quality in life. And here is one of the great secrets of persistence for persistence well in advance of the setbacks have on your up- ward quest toward success. Resolve in advance that you will never give When you are overwhelmed with a problem or develop the necessary persistence to deal But if you plan in advance for the in- evitable will be psychologically ready. You will be prepared. The courage to persist in the face of adversity more than anything, will guarantee your success. Your greatest personal asset can be your willingness In fact, your persistence is a true measure ity to succeed. Remember, all of life is a test. For you to have great success, you must pass And this test is often a pop quiz. It can come at any time, usu- ally totally You take the persistence test whenever you disappointment, setback, failure, or crisis This is where you show your- self, and everyone Epictetus, a Greek philosopher, once wrote, They merely re- veal him to himself." The one inevitability in your life is recurring If you are living a busy life, you will have In between these unavoidable crises will be And the more goals that you attempt to reach, mined you are to become a self-made millionaire, The only factor you can control is how you And the good news is that every time you respond become stronger and better and even more capable that comes along. Eventually, you will reach a point in life You will become like a force of nature. You will be irresistible. You will become the kind of person who never No matter what obstacle is put in your path, around it, or through it. You will be like the Energizer Bunny in the You will keep going and going and going. * What is the most difficult situation you are Whatever it is, imagine that it has been sent lesson that you need to learn to be even more What could that lesson be? From this moment onward, always seek the valuable You will always find it, and it will help Conclusion: Let me repeat the most important message of It is this: "Success is predictable." Success is not a matter of luck or accident Success is as predictable as the sun rising By practicing the principles that you have the line in life. You will have an incredible advantage over these techniques and strategies. You will have an advantage that will give life and career. If you consistently and persistently do the in the world can stop you from becoming a You are the architect of your own destiny. You are the master of your own fate. You are behind the steering wheel of your There are no limitations to what you can do, on yourself by your own thinking. Remember, you are as good or better than anyone You are an outstanding human being. You have talents and abilities far greater up to now. You have within you the potential to accomplish Your greatest responsibilities are to dream make a plan to achieve it, practice the strategies day in the direction of your dreams and goals, When you take these actions, you put yourself You become unstoppable and your success becomes