- A number of people warned about boys and men because particularly in politics right now, and because so many people were afraid that merely drawing attention and men was implying somehow to girls and women; that And it's sort of a who's and you have to be on rather than just being on the One of the real challenges missing from certain and our economy, that makes it to flourish in those areas. We have an education of male teachers. We have a labor market where the jobs that are growing fastest the fewest men- and in families there's the the 'dad deficit' or 'father listeners.' As men are struggling what you'll see is it'll to follow in their footsteps. It's harder for boys to flourish if their fathers aren't engaged. It's harder for men to enter occupations where there aren't men. It's harder for boys to do well at school where there are no male And so, there's a very real danger that unless we act quite soon, something of a vicious cycle. I'm Richard Reeves. I'm a Senior Fellow at and my latest book is &quot;Of Boys and Men: Why the Modern Male Is struggling, Why That Matters, and The overall picture is, that at almost every age, and in in the world, the girls are and the women leaving the men. What nobody expected wouldn't just catch up to but would blow right Everyone was very focused, quite rightly, on getting to gender equality, It's not that long ago where the other way, and there in the 70s and 80s to really promote women and girls in education. But the line just kept Nobody was saying, &quot;What if in just as big a way as but the other way around?&quot; And to some extent, their head around this new world where, at least in education, when you talk about gender inequality, you are pretty much always in which girls and women And that's happened in a of human history. So if you look at the U.S., for example, in the average school girls are almost a grade in English, and have caught up in math. If we look at those with the top 10%, two-thirds If we look at those at the bottom, two-thirds of those are boys. When it comes to going to college, there's a 10 percentage a similar size gap in completing college, conditional on enrolling. And the result of those in getting a college degree is now wider than it was in 1972, but So in 1972, when Title more gender equality in education, there was a 13 percentage point gap in favor of men getting college degrees. Now there's a 15 percentage point gap in favor of women getting college degrees. So the gender inequality is wider than it was 50 years ago- it's just the other way around. There's quite a fierce between male and female brains. And in adulthood, I think that the brains are that different in ways that we should worry about, or that are particularly consequential. But where there's no real debate is in the timing of brain development. It is quite clear that more quickly than boys brains do, and that the biggest difference seems to occur in adolescence. So what happens, is in adolescence, we develop what neuroscientists The prefrontal cortex of as the &quot;CEO of the brain.&quot; It's the bit of your brain that says, &quot;You should do your chemistry homework rather than going out to party.&quot; It's the bit of your brain maintaining a high GPA 'cause which might help you in the future. And that bit of the brain in girls than in boys, between Partly because girls go into and that seems to trigger What that means is that if that rewards the ability stay on task, worry about and so on, then, just at an advantage the group whose brains have developed earlier in and that turns out on average to be girls. I think it's a great that by taking the breaks off women's educational we've revealed the fact is slightly structured because of these differences in the timing of brain development. But it took the women's because the natural advantages were impossible to see were being capped by a sexist society. Now that those caps have we can see that it's boys and in the education system. At the risk of sounding boring, so we know what we are dealing with here. I do think that we should to start school a year later than girls. I think that should become the default in many school districts that there is between boys and girls. Because boys brains mature more slowly, then them starting school that they were developmentally with the girls in the classroom. We need a lot more male teachers. It's striking that the teaching profession has become steadily more female over time. Only 24% of K-12 teachers, now, are male- that's down from 33% in the 80s- and fewer men are applying to And so, we've seen this steady shift towards a close to an that has all kinds of of the school, for the way of behavior among boys And so we need a very serious to get more men into teaching. The third thing I would do in this world where I have significant would be significantly more investment in vocational education and training: That is an area where we do for boys and men on average, and one that's woefully The U.S. has really on a very academic, a very and less emphasis on vocational training. And that has actually put boys so apprenticeships, are actually a really good I think one of the is that if you're talking say, at the top of the economic ladder- four-year college degrees, decent incomes- they look around and they But that's not the same that's not the same for men So there's a danger that we're so busy, to borrow Sheryl Sandberg's phrase: &quot;So busy leaning in that The reality for men is very different. The economic trends for along four dimensions. One is wages: Most men today earn less In employment, with a drop of eight percentage points, of prime age are not working. We've seen a drop in occupational stature, and so, there are now more men which are seen as lower status And we've also seen a drop the kinds of skills and If boys don't get educated they will struggle in the labor market. And across all of those domains, for men in the last four or five decades. And so the way in which social economic inequality has to understand in the context If we only focus on gender that both men and women at the top have done increasingly well. But that's much less and especially it's less true of those from lower-income backgrounds, working-class boys and men, You see many of those and so those boys and men are of many of the social On the one hand, we have and laudable effort to get So 'science, technology, On the other side, we have So that's 'health, education, Almost, if you like, the to STEM jobs- and that's where a lot of Health and education alone in the U.S., and so by my estimates, for every one job we're between now and 2030, we're But those jobs are at as STEM jobs, but in the other direction, and unlike STEM becoming so if you look at the HEAL in those sectors are male, And in particular sectors, precipitous drop in the number of men. We have a drop in the We have a very sharp drop in the number of male psychologists; that's dropped from 39% male to 29% male in the last decade alone. And among psychologists only 5% are male. So we roll that forward, and becoming essentially almost So these jobs, which are for society, and where more diversity, are actually becoming more gender-segregated, and so we have absolutely into HEAL jobs, which is and where we should be One of the problems that we a 'dad deficit.' And that can be seen in So one in four fathers don't If parents split up, to lose contact with their and so one in three children, don't see their father at all after a few years post the separation. So this fatherlessness is something that's very, very specific. And when 4 in 10 children and most children, to are born outside marriage, then we have to reinvent because right now men are still being held to an old standard of what it meant to be a successful father in a possible for many of because what we've seen in economic power and then of course they're going rather than being forced This is probably the greatest honestly, that women can now choose whether to be with a man or not. More than 2 out of 5 a woman is the main breadwinner. 40% of American women earn These are huge economic but it does pose some about what fathers are for. And until we escape the obsolete model of the breadwinner father, more and more men being And the kicker is that boys in families that don't have a father presence suffer much more than girls. And so then what happens can become intergenerational because if the fathers are struggling, and therefore not really then the boys are the who will then go on to struggle themselves in education, and in the labor market. It's clear by now that marriage and a sense of purpose matter to men. And so as we've seen these in education, work, and the family, you're seeing some really difficult and troubling health consequences. And so, the so-called 'deaths of despair' from suicide, overdose, or alcohol, three times higher among Suicide itself, three times and rising very quickly, especially among middle-aged So we can see these as symptoms, I think, of a broader malaise, which is what's troubling boys and men. And for men in particular, this sense of purpose is very important. I think it's a human universal There's a wonderful piece called Fiona Chan, who that men had used to describe themselves before committing suicide, And the top of the list were I think if we create a do feel like they're not needed, then it's no surprise that we We see problems with opioids- opioids are a much bigger problem for men than they are for women- and one of the great is the death rates are higher in part because the users are on their own. And so, in some ways, the opioid epidemic is a perfect illustration we are talking about: which is a loss of role in the family, a loss of status in the labor market, turning to drugs, and being And so in that example, I of this broader, male to take it more seriously. And we have a cultural men and women together, to adjust to this new world- because, right now, many of