RAINER STRACK: takes the principles and also strategic thinking, and applies them By going through a you will have developed your own I spent almost half my life Group doing countless strategy Before that, I studied In physics, and also in nature, by applying methods to another discipline, such to the flow of traffic What if I took and applied it to my own life? That was the birth of Corporate strategy is an that positions an Now, if you substitute you would get life strategy is that positions a person to win. But life is not about winning. Life is about So our definition is life strategy is an positions a person A typical corporate strategy Number one, how does the This translates how do I define a great life? Two, what is the What is my life purpose? Three, what is the What is my life vision? Four, how does the organization How do I assess What is actually Number five, what can the learn from best Number six, what should the organization make? What life portfolio This is the central step come together. So where you define your that gives you the way And finally, step seven, how I, ensure successful, The symmetry is How do you define a great life? Most people think through social media, it's But only, let's say, money in effect because you feel So if you get a pay rise, goes down to initial level. On top, you have also which means you always with other people Money, fame, power has What then? A lot of other methodologies And one of the newest comes from Professor Seligman, which was later developed are six letters. It's P stands for So do I have a lot of E stands for engagement. So am I feeling in a It could be a great project. It could be a great hobby. R stands for relationships. So deep relationships with your and also with other people. M in PERMA is about meaning. So making the world A is achievement. So do you have a lot of, let's So goals that you achieve. And the V stands for vitality. So there's an old saying, you have 1,000 problems, you have only 1 problem. So this is a model that and also to contemplate In corporate we elevate business to invest capital with like market growth If you plot these two you get the famous 2-by-2 Now, what is the equivalent Here we propose in which you can invest Now, a week has 168 hours. 24 times 7. How do you spend these hours? First, you can spend it our first strategic life unit. Yes, I know what Only a consultant could of calling your significant But wait. Bear with me. Now, you could also spend with sports activities, and with a lot of other things. All in all, we have identified that we bundle into 6 Now we need three Number one, take an average and divide it among these So how much time do you Secondly, rate the importance units on a scale from 0 to 10. And finally, define the with each of these 16 So 0, not at all satisfied. 10, very satisfied. So how satisfied are you with your job, with your Now you can plot all these in a simple 2-by-2 matrix. We call it the strategic you plot importance on on the x-axis, and then you plot And the size of the proportional to Let me give you an example. And this is an example He went through the exercise. In the upper left, Upper left means high So these are your urgent And for Tony, it was because he didn't have And therefore, you can You find mental health. You find societal engagement. And you find education 95% of our workshop participants in this upper left corner. High importance, And many had, really, two And you find a bigger bubble So a lot of time invested Now do the same. Go through the exercise. Draft your first sketch. It only takes you And it will be Now you rated the importance, of each of these and you allocated the time. Actually, you can change Importance might stay a little But satisfaction level is absolutely In the upper left, where you are either or where you don't And it could be both, quite If you have a big and you say you are not a quick win would be just with three friends from school. Go on your phone, and then see how For a lot of people, social And they spend a So usually, you have The question is And I had people who just deleted in the workshop account because so much time for What is the right portfolio? So a right portfolio as a portfolio that is of a great life, that and also supports your vision. Very often it a lot of big bubbles in These are your very but you are also very and you spend a This is not yet It's only one step out of seven Can we really come up with Yes, we would say. Even in uncertain times, you As the stoic &quot;If you do not know which no wind is favorable.&quot; But you have to be open for Now you could say, isn't a great Fortunately, Seneca said &quot;Luck is when preparation And strategize your life helps